
What a sad world it is when people can sit back and gripe about "Fletch
Lives". Tsk, tsk, tsk! First of all, how can anyone pick up a video
with this sort of picture of Chevy Chase on the front and expect it to
not be stupid--in the best possible sense! Indeed, I admit, the movie
is stupid, but that is wholly what I love about it. Sure, if you want a
more realistic mystery story, watch the first one. But for purely
enjoying Chevy Chase's ridiculous antics, this one surpasses it. Though
I can't imagine any other actor who could have pulled this script off
and made it anything worthwhile! I generally end up watching this movie
at least every few months and have yet to grow tired of it. And yet I
have only recently added the first movie to my private collection.

Chevy Chase is one of the best out-and-out comedy actors available in
my opinion. And you can't expect him to be serious in a movie that was
intended to be anything but.

I think the best part about Chevy Chase as Fletch, is that he lives out
those crazy ideas we sometimes get (such as convincing someone of
invisible squealing bugs, simply telling someone their house is on
fire, and marching into a corporation like you own the place), and he
gets away with it when most of us don't dare in the first place.
Perhaps the people who can't enjoy him simply don't get the same
temptations, and therefore can't see why he appeals to those of us who
have to repress the desire to introduce yourself as a famous
sixteenth-century astrologer.
<|_=00=_|>

When Gregory McDonald created the character I. M. Fletcher "Fletch", he
must
have had Chevy Chase in mind.  Both "Fletch Lives" and "Fletch" are
perfect
vehicles for Chevy's brand of dry humor.  Snappy dialogue and amusing
disguises by Chase make these two Fletch movies, his best film work.  If
you
like Chevy Chase you'll love "Fletch Lives and "Fletch".

<|_=00=_|>
Another classic Chevy Chase film. This film is only just better than
the previous movie. There are plenty of wise-cracks and smart remarks
to keep you laughing. A must see for Chevy Chase fans and comedy fans
in general. This film is very similar to the original. Irwin Fletcher
has inherited a mansion from his Aunt who has passed away. Soon enough
Fletch finds that his land is worth more than he expected, around lets
say $250,000. Remember this is back in 1989 and that was a hell of a
lot of money back then! Soon enough Fletch discovers that whoever wants
his land, will not hesitate to rid him as well. I don't want to give
away too much information, it will be better for you to discover it for
yourself. Pros - Entertaining Story, many hilarious jokes, Chevy Chase.
Cons - Last Fletch film starring Chevy Chase, not quite a satisfying
ending for the two films Overall a must see and a guaranteed laugh.
Heres a tip, invite a few mates over your place, order some pizza and
you are set for a night of entertainment. Movies don't get much better
than this.
<|_=00=_|>
You had to a fan of Chevy Chase to fully enjoy the first installment
but here you have to be a die hard devotee to get the most out of the
sequel. The first one had a really good detective story that nearly got
buried with wisecracks, but on subsequent viewings it really came alive
and it ranks as one of the best movies Chevy Chase has been involved
in.

Fletch Lives has Fletch moving to the South where he has inherited a
mansion from his aunt. Continuing interest in buying the nearly
worthless land for a huge amount of money evokes suspicions and our
favorite reporter goes snooping around.

Fletch Lives is not nearly as well crafted or written as the first one,
with a rather predictable mystery that doesn't seem to take itself
seriously for one second. But it does have some fantastic comic
sequences; such as Fletch impersonating a faith healer, Fletch
encountering a mean biker gang, a memorable meeting with a fellow
inmate and some one great one-liners delivered with style by the great
comedian (as you might have guessed; I'm a big fan).

Supporting actors like Hal Holbrook and R. Lee Ermey add to the
enjoyment and Chase delivers but when all is said and done Fletch Lives
is for fans only who can overlook the shallowness of the film as a
whole.
<|_=00=_|>
Irwin Fletcher, or better known as 'Fletch' is a Los Angeles
investigative reporter, who quits his job and heads to Belle Isle a
vast 80-arce Louisiana plantation that he has inherited from his late
aunt. But soon after meeting the lovely attorney and spending the night
together, she is mysteriously dead the next morning. This is where the
trouble comes along, with a local lawyer telling him to leave town, and
a stunning real estate agent has come to make Fletch a healthy offer
for his estate. Though Fletch thinks there's something fishy about all
of this and he goes to hilarious lengths to figure the real truth about
why someone wants his land.

It never seems to amaze me, about how much I get out of this flick.
Sure, there's nothing truly great about this feature and you can call
it pointless and crude, but I never get tired of the shenanigans and
Chevy's wittiness. You could say it's a guilty pleasure of mine that
will always be a favourite, no matter what anyone else thinks. 'Fletch
Lives' is basically more or less a vehicle for Chevy Chase's dry,
smart-ass humour, and his prominently cunning persona. Really, that's
about it. During this stage he was one of the funniest comedians in his
prime. The others stars who appeared, in the likes of Hal Holbrook, R.
Lee Ermey, Julianne Phillips and Richard Libertini basically play off
Chase's character and fall under the mockery of his heavy-handed
humour. But still, amongst their stupidity are fun performances from
the support roles. The beautiful woman in the film seem to be there
only for showpieces and to always fall under Fletch's charismatic
appeal. Meaning they look nice, but really that's about it.

I'll even go to say that this sequel truly outdoes the original. By
containing far more laughs and gags that actually work than that of the
original. I don't mind the original, I like it. If you think this
sequel is going to be just like the 'Fletch', forget it. It's far from
it actually. While the original film was more a mystery story that led
into ingenious gags. The mystery in this one takes a back step, and
that's a BIG one too. The thin story and Chase's narration isn't much
to go by, so most of the elements (or better put, little episodes)
provided in the flick are their to give Chase some ammo to pock fun at,
while dressing up in his offbeat disguises. In doing so, it basically
comes off as parodying that of some movies (look at the title) and the
southern states, especially by ridiculing the KKK and Religious
gatherings. Some of these scenarios are embarrassing and have no
meaning but to pad out the film. But that being said the action and
laughs barely let up, as you just roll on with the sharp humour and
punch lines. Honestly, its inane drivel that's for sure, but everyone
pulls it off well enough. The comical aspect is basically
tongue-in-cheek, with a touch of dry remarks and underlying sexual
perversion. For some it might be offensive and lowbrow, but I couldn't
help myself from raising a smirk from time to time. Chevy Chase's
cool-as-ice performance was great fun, and I just enjoyed his manic
absurdity overall and Cleavon Little was delightful as Calculus Entropy
the caretaker of Fletch's estate.

Nothing will totally gobs-smack you about it, but it's just a
sentimental favourite of mine, which I always find something joyous
upon each viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Chevy Chase returns as goofy reporter Irwin Fletcher. This time, he
inherits a Louisiana mansion and decides to move there. On the way, he
expects the mansion (and the South overall) to be a "Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah"
world, but finds just the opposite when he arrives. To complicate
matters, he finds himself involved in a murder plot, gets chased by the
Ku Klux Klan, and various other mishaps.

Oh come on! I shouldn't have to explain "Fletch Lives" to you! The very
presence of Chevy Chase should identify that it's a hilariously wacky
good time (remember, he was funny before his failed attempt at a TV
show; and he did play a good role in "Orange County"). I don't care
what anyone says; Chevy Chase is truly one of the funniest people in
history.
<|_=00=_|>
Peggy-Lee Zorba, Nostradamus, The Colonel, Victor Hugo, Billy-Jean
King, Claude-Henry Smoot, Peter Lemonjello, Ed Harley, Elmer-Fudd
Gantry and Bobby-Lee Schwartz II. Not to mention Fletch himself. Has
Chevy Chase ever played so many people in one film? I love Fletch
Lives, it is so damn funny and cackles with hilarious dialogue. It's a
bloody shame that the critics were beastly, when it first came out.
Chevy Chase, once again, nails the role of Fletch and only he can
deliver the deadpan sarcasm in a way no other actor can.

Fletch quits his job as an investigative reporter after he inherits a
plantation mansion in Louisiana. But he stumbles upon another mystery
and does his best to unravel it. Compared to the first the plot may be
a little weak but it works fine. The focus seems to have shifted to
Fletch's disguises and working set-pieces and gags around them rather
than working on layers of mystery. And why the producers commissioned a
brand new screenplay instead working from one of Gregory MacDonald's
novels is beyond me.

His disguises will, however, make you grin from ear to ear (Claude
Henry Smoot steals the show) and they way he comes out with the most
ridiculous of things when he's talking to people makes you wonder why
they ever believe it. As Peter Lemonjello, Fletch tells a studio camera
operator that his house is on fire. The guy believes him! I do wish
that they had used more of the Bibleland sets as it seems so much for
so little screen time but the presence of R. Lee Ermey as the eccentric
TV Evangelist makes up for it.

And to any of you who are puzzled why Mr. Underhill is credited in the
cast of characters but not actually in the film, he IS. Look closely at
the Zipedee Doo-Dah sequence and you can see him as one of the dancers.

Had the producers treated Fletch like James Bond we might have a new
Fletch mystery every two years since 1985 if they followed the order of
MacDonald's books (not chronologically, of course, as they're all over
the place). It could have turned into Chase's signature roll.

There's been talk of a sequel for years and with various names attached
as Chase seems to have been ejected from the role. Though he is the
ONLY Fletch in my opinion. At the very least, if a sequel IS made, they
cannot dispose of Harold Faltermeyer's brilliant score, which I found
to be nothing short of awesome when I was a kid, and little has changed
since then.
<|_=00=_|>
Fletch (Chevy Chase) is a reporter for a Los Angeles newspaper, but he
acts more like a detective. When an obscure relative leaves him a
Louisiana mansion in his will, Fletch is naturally curious.

The movie gained a mixed to negative reception, and I can understand
why. While there is a certain level of fun with any classic Chevy Chase
film, this one has almost none of what made the first one great. Much
lighter on the antics, and much heavier on trying to play up southern
stereotypes for cheap laughs.

Hal Holbrook and R. Lee Ermey make for some good supporting cast
members, but they just are not enough to save this one. Entertaining,
yes, but not the sequel it should have been.
<|_=00=_|>
"Fletch Lives" is a so-so comedy. It has a nice plot that keeps it
somewhat interesting. But the humor is very spotty. The best of it
comes in Chevy Chase's many disguises. His use of phony names  though
of real people in history, was funny for one movie, but gets tiring and
not too funny in this sequel. The script again has many wisecracks and
cliché's  the latter are obviously intentional as a parody of other
films and times. But, they just weren't all that funny. 

As with the first film, this one has some unnecessary profanity that is
a put off for some viewers, and makes the film not suitable for
families. What's disappointing to me is that it lacks punch in the
humor. With a good enough plot, I think some writers  and Chase in
impromptu, could have come up with some newer funnies. Instead, we get
much of the same insipid quips for humor that just don't tickle the
funny bone.
<|_=00=_|>
Fletch is back and I LOVE his return! As sequels go, this one surpasses
the original. This story line is excellent and the plot was a brilliant
vehicle for Chevy. I really wish they would do another for him.

This time, Fletch is so disgusted with his boss Frank, that when his
hermetic Aunt Belle passes away and leaves him her mansion, Belle Isle
in Louisiana, he quits his job and moves to the Bayou. But things on
the Bayou are anything but serene.

Aside from the expected clichéd stereotypical fare generated by the
southern locale, this movie was more than enjoyable, and far superior
to its predecessor in that the role has expanded and encompasses a far
broader spectrum that did the original. While still a comedic venture,
it has a more serious undertone than did the first. A far more
enjoyable movie, in my opinion, with the same lovable comedic efforts
by Chevy.

My name...most of the time, is Irwin Fletcher. I write under the name
Jane Doe. That's the kinda gal I am.

It rates an 8.2/10 from...

the Fiend :.
