
this is the one of my favorite van dam movies. I think that it is also
one of his best films. We watch his character train throughout the
movie for a fight at the end. The martial arts throughout are very well
done. This is one of those films you can watch every time it is on TV.
If you like martial arts movies you will probably enjoy this one. The
movie though is all about the final fight. Like many other films of its
type. All in all van dam is great and if you want to see a film based
on the martial arts that doesn't have Druce Lee or Jackie Chan or Jet
Li in it then this movie is one for you. The story is pretty simple but
the fight scenes are worth it so go for it. 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of Van Damme's best films! I thought his acting was really
good
especially when he was crying. Michel Qissi and Dennis Chan very good
good.
There is a lot of action in the film. Tong Po's introduction was cool! The
music by Paul Hertzog was good. Kickboxer has three sequels and I think
the
the second movie is arguably better than the first one and this one is
excellent! If like Van Damme's other great movies such as Bloodsport,
Cyborg, Hard Target, and Sudden Death then I recommend you watch
Kickboxer!
<|_=00=_|>
Kickboxer (1989) was another in a long line of star vehicles for the
"Muscles from Brussels". In this picture J.C.V.D. plays the younger
brother of a unbeaten American kick boxer who lusts for some real
competition. So he decides to go to the home of Muay Thai kick boxing,
Thailand. There he realizes that he doesn't know squat about the true
art of kick boxing. He learns a painful lesson. His younger brother
decides to learn Muay Thai and avenge his brother's honor.

Not a bad movie. Entertaining and a good time waster. But for some
reason the producers decided to franchise out this series. The rest of
the films are a mixed bag at best. The more they made the least
interesting they became until the final results were unwatchable. As
always with these films the first film is usually the best of the
bunch. Jean-Claude plays his character with a thick euro-accent (I
forgot how they explained it). He's physically impressive so it's kind
of hard to swallow his naivet√© about fighting and what not. Or well.
Fun for all.

Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best martial arts movie ever made. It's got "Damme"
good
soundtrack , "Damme" good story line and "Damme" good training. The last
fight is the best I've ever seen. I've seen 2 different versions and
they're
both good. This is a must watch Van Damme movie.

<|_=00=_|>

It has been made a lot of sequels in this series,but this one is the only
that is worth watching.
It is kind of like Rocky,in the sense that he traines all the movie for a
fight in the end.
The fight scenes are hardcore and the one at the end is quite
cool.
This cant be compared to the best movies of Jackie Chan and Jet Li,but it
is
still a good martial arts movie.

One of Van Dammes best to date.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a splendid movie. It's van Damme exactly as I want to see him,
with great martial arts action, a decent plot (even if it's not
original at all), cool characters and a great 80's soundtrack. The
movie is somewhat different from Bloodsport. Of course there are
similarities too, like an evil fighting champion that van Damme is
fighting. But this movie hasn't nearly as many fights as Bloodsport.
Instead, it's more focus on training here. The training scenes are
visually very good, and with really cool background music. Even though
I had expected more fighting instead of this, there's no doubt that
this is a great movie in it's own way.
<|_=00=_|>
I have rented this movie out numerous times and i love watching it
every time, its a movie that i just cant get enough of and is a movie
that i would someday like to own on video or DVD.

The story is pretty simple it's about a man named Kurt Sloan played by
Van Dame, who's brother Eric Sloan gets brutally crippled after
fighting undefeated Muhay Thai kickboxing champion Tong Po, Kurt Sloan
then meets Xian played by Dennis Chan who latter agrees to train Kurt
so that he can be good enough to fight Tong Po and beat him to get
revenge for his brother.

This is by far my favourite martial arts movie, it has lots of great
fighting and action and also contains some lovely scenery of Thailand
which the movie is set in and was filmed in.

A highly recommended movie for all martial arts action movie fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Nah, you're not interested in "Kickboxer," the Jean-Claude Van Damme
martial arts movie set in the exotic and mysterious Thailand and
focuses in on the brutal sport of Muay Thai, are you? You're not going
to miss Van Damme's hammy acting, his trademark splits, or his harsh
(although according to some sources, inaccurate) training and portrayal
in and of the Thai sport of Muay Thai, are you?

Of course you do. The Muscles From Brussels goes Thai in this 1989
adventure, with the Belgian actor exploring the martial arts
fundamentals of Muay Thai, the national sport of Thailand, which has
gained wider recognition in the West because it's the de facto fighting
style for mixed martial arts and Thai-native newcomer Tony Jaa seeks to
promote his tiny country's greatest commodity for a worldwide audience.
But this is a Van Damme movie, first and foremost. True he's no great
actor, but there's something about his work here that makes me want to
watch "Kickboxer" again and again.

First things first, what is Muay Thai? As already stated, it's the
national sport of Thailand, where the fighter will condition his body
so that his arms and legs become weapons capable of delivering blows,
kicks in particular, that are three times as powerful as that of any
ordinary martial artist. He'll also use his feet, fists, shins, and
elbows too. If one wants to go all out, two guys will get in a ring and
have themselves a rope-fist fight, where the fighters' wrists are bound
in rope and covered with broken glass. Isn't that mean and nasty?

To begin "Kickboxer," Van Damme is Kurt Sloane, brother of Eric (Dennis
Alexio), the top kickboxer in the United States. Tiring of the generic
competition of his native soil, he travels with brother Kurt to
Bangkok, where he hopes to dethrone the current champ Tong Po (Michel
Qissi), who has a reputation for fighting dirty. Kurt first sees this
towering mountain of flesh and muscle kicking the hell out of a support
beam in the locker room; that's the first clue to Kurt that Eric
shouldn't get in the ring, but he's not listening.

And Eric fights anyway, against baby brother's warnings.

To make long stories short, Eric takes quite a beating in the ring but
a series of illegal blows delivered after Kurt throws in the towel
cripple Eric for life. So what went wrong? According to some sources,
American Kickboxing is a watered-down form of Muay Thai, so it's no
wonder Tong Po got the upper hand so quickly on Eric, who despite his
excellent training and peak physical condition, only landed a few lucky
punches on the towering fighter. Apparently, Muay Thai is strictly for
street fighting, not something for refined martial artists like Kurt
and Eric.

To teach Tong Po a lesson in humility, Kurt contacts American Winston
Taylor (Haskell V. Anderson III) to seek out a venerated Thai master,
Xian Chow (Dennis Chan), to learn the art of Muay Thai, and so the
training begins. Kurt first puts aside his already-planted Karate
training and strengthens his body, kicks tree stumps until the scar
tissue prevents any kind of feeling aside from invincibility, learns a
little about Asian spirituality, and even flirts with Chow's niece
Mylee (Rochelle Ashana). What it all culminates in, of course, is a
no-holds-barred "Rocky IV"-style showdown using the ancient rope-fists
between Kurt and Tong Po.

As someone who knows next to nothing about Muay Thai (in fact, much of
what I know comes from Wikipedia and the special features section of
the "Ong-Bak: The Thai Warrior" DVD), I found "Kickboxer" to still be
quite entertaining. It's brutal stuff, really, so it's no wonder Muay
Thai is gaining such greater notoriety in the United States. As Kurt
Sloane, Van Damme is good (despite his acting limitations in showing
emotions), his performance notwithstanding, and none of the other
performers are really worth speaking of either, but Tong Po is a nasty
villain and his one speaking line "You bleed like Mylee; Mylee good
f**k" sends chills down the spine.

The fights are another thing and are what this feature co-directed by
Mark DiSalle and David Worth seems to specialize in. The fights are
spectacular (as with any martial arts movie that features Van Damme
doing his trademark splits and 360-degree flying spin-kick), which does
include one sequence where Kurt gets drunk, starts dancing, and takes
on the patrons at a bar.

This "Kickboxer" - it's a kick, just don't let it "kick" you in the
head too much with its lackadaisical script and lame-brain plotting.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is really good and its about a Kickboxer and his brother who
go to Thailand to fight the Thai Kick boxing champion and the American
Kickboxer loses and ends up being paralyzed and then his brother gos
and gets kick boxing training in a remote part of Thailand to revenge
his brother.There are heaps of good scenes in this movie like all of
the scenes of the city Bangkok and of all of the beautiful temples and
the great fight scenes in the end of the movie.This movie stars good
actors like the great action star Jean-Claude Van Damme,Dennis
Chan,Dennis Alexio,Michel Qissi and Haskell V. Anderson The
III.Kickboxer is one of Vam Dammes best movies and so are the movies
Blood Sport,Nowhere To Run,TimeCop,The Quest and Hard Target.Over all
this movie was good with NEVER a boring scene and my rating is 7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably the most famous of Van Damme's early work, kick-boxer is
another simple story of revenge, and a showcase for his skills as a
martial artist. It has some good fights, and some interesting moments
showing the difficulty of training and trying to achieve your best
while not losing your focus. Although it suffers from some cheesy
acting, dialogue, music, and a highly disturbing dance scene, this is a
must for Van Damme fans, and those with an interest in martial arts
movies who don't want to stray too far from the West.

Van Damme stars as Kurt Sloane, the younger brother of a flashy
American Kickboxer. They train together, but his brother Eric seems to
be more interested in looking like a good fighter than actually finding
the ability and skill to be one. Eric takes part in a fighting
competition and is crippled and almost killed by Tong Po, and fearsome
Kickboxer with a great rage and discipline. Kurt decides to avenge his
brother, but no-one will train him as they believe Tong Po is too
popular and strong. Eventually he finds a trainer in the middle of
nowhere who teaches him to reach his full potential and push through
the barriers which he never though he could surpass. He also meets
Winston Tyler who provides some laughs, and Mylee who provides some
style. Of course it is the fights that matter, and the revenge plot is
safe enough to give the fights reason. Rather than cheap montages, we
see the tough training regime Kurt goes through, and see Tong Po
kicking a cement wall to build up the strength and invulnerability of
his foot. Sounds odd yes, but how else would we know he's a hard lad?
Anyway, a good film for fight fans, light-hearted and fast and worth
watching.

7.5 out of 10
