
"Warlords of the 21st Century" aka "Battletruck" (as it is known to me)
was a movie that I saw once when I was about eleven years old. It came
on late night television and it left an extremely good impression on
me.. Since then I've been trying to obtain the film on VHS for nearly
eight years. It was so hard to get, even when I was in New Zealand I
couldn't get my hands on it, as it was only for rent and no one would
sell it to me.

Seeing it again it didn't give me the same rush as I was little, but
still, it was very entertaining. This low budget "Mad Max"-like action
flick is no blockbuster, nor is it surprising since the storyline is
very straightforward.. But the battletruck itself looks scary, the
music is a little creepy and the acting performances are good enough..
Great for an evening on the couch with some friends, IF you can get
your hands on a copy.. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Reading the comments about this movie, for one, their not trying to
sound like Americans, they are speaking New Zealand, thats the way we
sound except for the odd over acted lines. i remember this being made
and even seeing the land rover series one come to our school.knew the
truck driver who drove the Mack, and even where most of the scenes
where filmed. Alexandra right in the heart of central Otago. one scene
where he is being chased though pines trees is 30 seconds out of
Alexandra, heading north from Alex to Cromwell looked left and there
you have it!! Back in the 80's this was great but now in the 2000 looks
abit cheap. the original tidal was Battletruck but I see they changed
to it warlords, Battletruck is better. Just finished watching again,
been 24 years since i last seen it... brings back memory's!! But man as
kids did we have fun with our toys after watching this!! Same with the
movie Convoy....cool!
<|_=00=_|>
Man, this was one of my favorite movies when I was a kid. Must have
watched it countless times. I hadn't watched it in many years, so I
decided to pop it in again. With having watched quite a few 80's
post-nuke films more by now, I was kind of afraid that BATTLETRUCK
wouldn't hold together very well anymore. But surprisingly, it very
much does! Of course BATTLETRUCK holds references to MAD MAX (but
that's what we expect from any post-apo flick, right?). At least it's
not one of those laughter-inducing Snake Plissken rip-offs this 80's
sub-genre was flooded with.

This is one of those very few 80's post-apocalyptic/wastelands themed
movies that I can actually agree on being a very serious genre-effort
(as in: It doesn't go shamelessly over-the-top) and even a good movie
in general. I don't really understand why this movie was released under
the title WARLORDS OF THE 21st CENTURY For one thing, it makes you
suspect that you're dealing with a very cheesy, incompetent and blatant
80's Italian genre-effort. And second, BATTLETRUCK is a much cooler and
more appropriate title. The black truck featured in this movie, really
is the main attraction and it looks frickin' great! Mounting the camera
on the front of the truck (but turning it around so we actually see the
truck) while it's driving, makes this black beast on wheels a truly
menacing entity. And then there's also great shots of the evil truck
approaching in the distance, while on the foreground you can see
unsuspecting (soon to be) victims.

Truck itself, isn't really a demonic entity of course - like the car in
THE CAR (1977), for instance  but it's owned by Colonel Straker, the
villainous leader of a band of thugs roaming the wastelands (basically
pillaging everything in sight, torturing and killing random people and
always searching for precious gasoline). When a girl (named Corlie)
fleas from Straker's camp, that's when the trouble begins. Loner Hunter
(Michael Beck), rescues her and he had better not done that. Because
now, not only his and Corlie's life is in danger, but also the whole
peace-loving, democracy-upholding community of Clearwater might be
wiped out by Straker's vengeance. The only thing I can comment about on
the plot, is that it sometimes seems a bit to run around in circles.
But that even seemed to be done on purpose: It gives you the time to
really get to know (and care about) all the characters, and see how
they tie in all together (because some of them have secrets).

The whole cast is doing a pretty swell job for a movie of this type.
Michael Beck pulls it of nicely as the loner-hero with his
nifty-looking bike (thankfully not featuring any goofy gadgets), not
really intending to fight, but taking action and making a stand when
doing what is right is called for. Especially James Wainwright, as the
sadistic Straker, is delicious to behold. He gives a dead-serious
performance, and the nasty, meaningless killings he performs and orders
are just so mean-spirited. I mean, he's not just an idiot like, for
example Gearge Eastman portrayed in WARRIORS OF THE WASTELAND (aka I
NUOVI BARBARI). Colonel Straker really is a cunning, vengeful, bad
mo-fo. And you can bet your sweet behind, that whenever he puts his arm
around your shoulder and smiles, your minutes are numbered.

Brings us to the violent outbursts (that every self-respecting
post-nuke film simply must have). BATTLETRUCK isn't a non-stop
portrayal of action and violence (and that really uplifts this movie
above the general sludge that was being released in this genre). But I
assure you, every killing in this movie is handled with such care.
Every death-scene looks real. The blood-splatters look real and so do
the flesh-wounds and other make-up effects. My favorite scene involving
on-screen violence shows us a nasty blow-to-the-head by a
fire-extinguisher. Man, that's gotta hurt! Great timing with the
good-looking blood-squirts in that scene too. But just don't expect
gory sights in BATTLETRUCK; director Harley Cokeliss kept it realistic
and didn't over-do it.

The cinematography is also a lot better-looking than many of those
notable Italian post-nuke efforts. The landscapes from Otago, New
Zealand are astonishing (as if we didn't know that already), without
going astray too much from that "dusty wasteland" feeling every
post-apo flick needs. And there are a couple of cool helicopter-shots,
filming Hunter ripping through the landscapes on his bike and showing
the battle truck roaming the wastelands. Particularly the final chase
(bike vs. battle truck) is filmed in a very capable fashion. Aside
that, the few stunts (with vehicles) in the movie even look real and
convincing. A final mention goes to composer Kevin Peek. His eerie
electronic 'soundscapes' provide very appropriate atmospheric wrappings
every time our menacing truck is on the move. But during some
action-sequences, when his score becomes more up-tempo rocking (and
some guitars even come on), it gets reduced to being not much more than
just amusing (oh well, after all: This is a movie from the 80's). The
set-design and vehicles look convincing enough too and there's even a
nice roll for a 'modified' Volkswagen Beetle. 

So, BATTLETRUCK has a tight, not too complicated plot and decent
character-drawings. The action is there. The violence is there. The
drama is there. The performances and dialogues are good. The blood and
injuries look real. And all the characters that die, you even get to
know (on some level) first. And the climax is also satisfying. I've
never seen all those elements dosed in such a well-balanced manner in
any post-apocalyptic movie. And to be able to make this statement, I
had to see numerous post-apo crap-fests first in recent years. In the
end, BATTLETRUCK rightfully remains a favorite of mine, and if you like
this sub-genre and can appreciate a more serious entry in it, then I
can recommend tracking this baby down.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved Battletruck. Awesome movie.. very watchable again and again. Its
got a really gritty post apocalyptic feel to it and i think its just as
good as Mad Max 1 and 2 and BETTER than Thunderdome. The opening
sequence with the radio announcer and the smoke in the picture is
great.. so simple.. but very effective.

What i will say in the way of criticism is that there is no need for
the filmmakers to pretend this is shot in the states... The American
accents from the NZ actors are awful for starters ("Gaaad Daayyum") and
then there's the fact that the film obviously does not take place in
the US (right hand drive, the NZ mountain ranges) NZ is great.. show it
off !
<|_=00=_|>

If this is the "benchmark" for putrid movies as one reviewer laughably
suggests, where does that leave HEAVEN'S GATE, SHOWGIRLS, ROBOT MONSTER,
MONSTROSITY, DRACULA'S LAST RITES, THE ISLAND, THE SAINT, EVE OF
DESTRUCTION, ALIEN 2, ALIEN RESURRECTION??? to name but
10!

This is an energetic, low budget little NZ actioner. It's ONLY similarity
to
MAD MAX is the post apocalyptic oil-less future! Cockliss does pretty well
within the constraints heaped upon him. I rather like NZ films - they tend
to exude they're own unique little aura, much like Canadian flicks. Pretty
much known as BATTLETRUCK everywhere (smewhat understandable - who wants
to
refer to a flick as WARLORDS OF THE 21ST CENTURY?) the film rips along
quite
nicely. No denying, the BATTLETRUCK of the title is one mean mother of a
four-wheeled monstrosity. Definitely, the way to go in
gridlock!

Hero Hunter (Beck) rides his own mean "Street Hawkmobile" and despite
being
shot pretty much through the heart with an arrow, is able to get straight
back on to his dirt-bike extraordinaire and take it up to warlord Straker
who looks suspiciously like a reject from a STEVEN SEAGAL movie!

The DUELesque ending is superbly done - shot from the almost identical
angles that Spielberg used. It is equally impressive!

If this is the crappiest movie ever made, then pigs already fly! The film
is
a "6" no question! Kinda left field and semi-haunting music too,
reminiscent
of Tangerine Dream's work in the aforementioned STREET HAWK.


<|_=00=_|>
Looking for a low-budget diversion packed with plenty of action, some
beautiful scenery, and a pretty cool truck, then look no further than
this New Zealand film from the early 80s. Though the budget is tiny,
and the story seems derivative, there is enough here to hold your
interest if you are into post-apocalyptic Mad Max type of stuff. The
early 80s produced many, many low-budget films of this type, but nobody
else, not even the Gibson franchise had THE BATTLETRUCK! 

The plot is familiar enough. We have a "not-so-distant" future where
society has basically collapsed. A ham radio broadcast during the
opening frames basically sets the table. Cities have collapsed, oil is
increasingly scarce, and many people have migrated to the countryside
to escape the urban chaos. However, there is no viable law enforcement
outside of the cities, and its survival of the fittest. Some have
adapted to commune style, ag-based living. Some, like our hero Mr.
Hunter have found a way to live independently, using methane-based
technology to remain mobile and self-sufficient. And then you have our
villain... Mr. Straker. He is some would be military-style tyrannical
dictator whose army of twenty or more pillage the countryside. It is
they who drive the battletruck, and nobody can dare stand up to it with
its weapons and technology. Its a shame this truck belongs to the bad
guys, since that only ensures its later demise in a scene very
reminiscent to the conclusion of Spielberg's Duel. The acting isn't bad
at all. Michael Beck as the anti-hero Hunter plays his character with
the kind of stoic toughness and resourcefulness he showed in The
Warriors. He does well here. James Wainwright, as the villain steals
the show, however. Maybe only the battletruck itself is more memorable.
He plays the role with a sadistic overconfidence. An aloofness complete
with a twinkle in his eye reminiscent of the late David Carradine. He
had the chops to have done more than he did. Anne Mcenroe is better
here than she was in The Howling II, but that isn't saying much. She
does OK as the damsel in distress. And how about John Ratzenberger?
Mostly known for his role on Cheers, think of his film career for a
moment. Between 1980 and 1983 he appeared in the following films:
Empire Strikes Back, Motel Hell, Reds, Battletruck, Outland, Firefox
and Gandhi!! Wow! Who was his agent back then? Did he turn anything
down?? Also starring here is the beautiful New Zealand countryside.
This area they filmed in kinda looks like Utah in the wintertime.
Rugged and pristine. The film is well-paced, and not really preachy in
terms of environmentalism, but the message is clear. The human race's
dependence on fossil fuels has always led to conflict, and could one
day cause a societal collapse. Maybe. Hope it doesn't happen in my
lifetime! I don't want the battletruck coming after me! 7 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
It's possible for a sci fi futuristic pic like this, to misfire and be
dull. That was the price of disappointment I got, watching this back in
84. When viewing it again, later in 95, only cause someone I knew, was
an extra in it (my acting teacher at the time) it didn't impress upon
me much more. It really has long spells of dullness. In no way, is it
the actor's faults. They're all good, Wainwright, leaving his mark as
the head villain of the show. I didn't know why he didn't go on to do
more stuff, where there's a few who disappeared off the radar actors
here. Wainwright and his posse of men roam around the mountains of
beautiful New Zealand, in this monstrous tank truck, the battle truck,
that occupies the front cover of the Roadshow titled movie, after no 1
commodity which is oil, shooting or killing anyone who gets in their
way. Going up against him on his methane motorbike is Xanudu's Michael
Beck, a likable hero. Standing between them is Annie McEnroe, who was
Wainwright's ex once. She forms a relationship with Beck, where later
she's kidnapped, and it's Beck to the rescue. Battletruck was just
somewhat disappointing, who's American director, Harley Cokliss mad
other films I liked. The actors have their moments and make some parts
watchable, where they're are a couple of dead spots. Cheer's barfly,
Ratzenberger was particularly good as Beck's friend who hides him out
for a bit. For most part this full is on a par with dullness, the
truck's fate into the path of dreck, the shining ray moment of this
pic. Don't say I didn't warn ya.
<|_=00=_|>
"Warlords of the 21st Century", a.k.a. "Battletruck", is fun stuff, if
overly reminiscent of the more famous "Mad Max" series (although, truth
be told, this was actually filmed *before* "The Road Warrior"). It's
competently directed (by Harley Cokeliss), nicely shot (by Oscar
winning Chris Menges), and has enough action and futuristic stylings to
make it enjoyable viewing. The characters are never fleshed out all
that much, but at least in this simplistic script (co- written by
Cokeliss), you're never in doubt as to who the good guys and the bad
guys are. The acting is solid from most everybody involved. And there
are a substantial amount of truly impressive explosions and one hell of
an awesome vehicle - the "Battletruck" of the alternate title - to
capture ones' attention.

Michael Beck of "The Warriors" stars in this post-apocalypse tale in
which oil is a rare and valuable commodity. He comes to the aid of the
forlorn Corlie (Annie McEnroe, "The Hand"), who's run away from
domineering villain Straker (an effectively one-note James Wainwright).
He brings Corlie to a peaceful community known as Clearwater.
Unfortunately for the citizens of Clearwater, Straker fully intends to
get Corlie back, and so he proceeds to terrorize these people.

The supporting cast features a likable John Ratzenberger (Cliff from
'Cheers') as Clearwater resident Rusty and a very amusing pair of
performances from New Zealand native Bruno Lawrence ("Smash Palace",
"The Quiet Earth") and Welshman John Bach (the "Lord of the Rings"
franchise) as Willie and Bone, Strakers' primary two henchmen. Randy
Powell is good as Judd, the kind of guy you "love to hate". Beck is an
under-stated hero; McEnroe isn't bad but her character is kind of
whiny.

Kevin Peek does the rousing music in this engaging escapist fare, which
builds to a pretty good action finale on board the Battletruck. This
was filmed in New Zealand and there's lots of amazing scenery along the
way.

Most fans of the post-nuke genre will likely have a good time with
this.

Seven out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Another post-apocalyptic sci-fi, recently released on a DVD alongside
Deathsport. Likewise, this one is very lowly rated (4.1 at the moment).
I can understand that about Deathsport, but I think Battletruck (aka
Warlords of the 21st Century) is downright good. I think the problem is
that it's very similar to George Miller's The Road Warrior. Some IMDb
reviewers even refer to it as a rip-off, but it was being made before
The Road Warrior was ever even released, and, at least in most places,
it was released almost at the exact same time (in the U.S. both were
released in April of 1982). Compared to The Road Warrior, okay,
Battletruck isn't nearly as good. But I won't hold that against it. The
Road Warrior is all kinds of awesome. Battletruck is merely good, with
a less ambitious story, though still probably too ambitious to
completely succeed with the small budget it had. But still, it's pretty
good. Michael Beck of The Warriors stars (though he doesn't appear for
a good while into the film, which is a cool touch) as a lone wolf in
this post-apocalyptic wasteland. He rescues Annie McEnroe (a character
actress whom you might recognize from Beetlejuice and many other
films), who has escaped her villain father (James Wainwright), but is
left stranded in the middle of nowhere. Wainwright drives around in the
titular truck raiding whatever settlements he can find and stealing all
the oil and gasoline he can find. Beck takes McEnroe to a democratic
settlement called Clearwater (among whose citizens is John
Ratzenberger, who probably has more lines in this movie than any other
before he started working with Pixar). They aren't all too trusting of
Beck, who does some business with Clearwater but lives out on his own
somewhere, and some of the citizens fear McEnroe's presence. That
proves insightful when Wainwright comes along looking for her (and
fuel). The action sequences in the film are well done, and the scenery
is nice (it was filmed in New Zealand). Too bad it was shot in Academy
ratio (or perhaps only still exists in that format).
<|_=00=_|>
Now i remember seeing this film on late night television for the first
time when i was around ten years old. I remember loving it then, mainly
for the action and thinking the main character of Hunter was cool (he
rode a kick-a** motorcycle). As i grew older i always remembered this
movie and tried tracking a copy down to no avail. I always. Remembered
the sweet title ; "warlords of the 21st century. Well to my surprise
and great delight i found this title under a different title of
"Battletruck". I had to pick it up! Now i've read plenty of reviews who
put this movie down. I honestly don't know what else they would want or
expect from a low budget action/sci-fi film. I've seen multi million
dollar Hollywood films that were not as entertaining as this film. Its
a highly entertaining good versus evil film, and it was just as magical
and great as i remembered from my childhood. This is simply one mans
opinion, I'm a huge nerd for independent films. All i can say is that
if you too like me are a sap for low budget independent cinema you
cannot go wrong with "Warlords of the 21st Century (aka Battletruck)".
Check it out, hope you enjoy!
