

Hate to say it guys, but I liked this one better.  One was good, but this
one is so silly, so comical at times, that I just loved it.  If you're
unfamiliar with the format, there are 3 short stories featured here.  Up
first is a wooden indian that adorns the front of a general store, coming
to
life to kill the goons who gunned down his owners.  Holt McCallany is very
strong as the foul mouthed leader of the gang.  And the way he gets
his...hoo boy.  Number two has a man-eating oil slick(?) snacking on teens
on a wooden raft.  And most people are right when they say it looks like a
big hefty bag.  And a moment that will have you rolling, and that will give
teenage boys ideas and have men remembering fondly when they may have done
it, is where the surviving guy takes a peek under the surviving girls
sweater.  Good to see where this dudes priorities are; two of his friends
are dead, he's nearly been killed, and he decides its a good time to look
at
boobies.  I loved it.  But my absolute favorite of both Creepshow films is
the hitchhiker story.  It's so hysterically unrealistic that it still makes
me laugh all these years later.  With Lois Chiles mind-losing dialogue, and
the dead guys constant "thanks for the ride, lady!" I can't imagine a
funnier, more exciting short story than that.  In a perfect world Tom
Wright, who played the hitchhiker, wouldda been nominated for an Oscar.
Also a high five to the campy look of the film, with all three films set in
the middle of nowhere, one at sea, one (mostly) in the woods.  A lot of fun
I say, though most hated this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Creepshow 2 was released in 1987 and was directed by George Romero's
regular cinematographer Michael Gornick. Gornick, who was a late
replacement for the original director FX maestro Tiom Savini, cut his
directorial teeth on several episodes of Laurel's Tales From The
Darkside and was a natural choice to make the film. He does a
commendable job with what is clearly a modest budget and three stories
that are not as engaging, gripping and frightening as those available
to Romero in his original 1982 film.

Only one of the three stories has been previously published, the other
two being originals devised for the film by Stephen King and scripted
by Romero. The first story is called Old Chief Woodenhead and stars
Hollywood veterans George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour. It concerns a
wooden storefront statue of an old Indian chief that comes to life to
avenge the death of two elderly people by a gang of youths. It is the
least impressive of the three tales but retains a certain ghoulish
charm.

The second story is The Raft. Originally published in King's 1985 short
story collection Skeleton Crew (with a slightly different ending). The
segment is about four scantily-clad teenagers who arrive at a deserted
lake, late one summer, for an afternoon swim but find that something
thoroughly unpleasant is waiting for them. The special effects are well
below par with King himself commenting that the monster in the lake
looks something like "a dirty old man's raincoat". However, this
episodes's grim punchline would make The Cryptkeeper himself chuckle
with approval.

The third and probably best story is The Hitchhiker and stars Louis
(Moonraker) Chiles as a bored, rich housewife who regularly enjoys the
services of a handsome gigolo. On her way home from such an encounter
she accidentally runs over a young Hitchhiker (played by stuntman Tom
Wright) killing him instantly. Terrrified by the consequences of her
actions she quickly leaves the scene of the accident. However, a few
miles down the road she sees the Hitchhiker, bloodied and amazingly
returned to life, limping towards her. To reveal any more would be to
dampen this segment's sick delights but I will say that it features a
neat cameo by King himself as a foul-mouthed truck driver.

A fourth story called Pinfall was planned for the movie but later
dropped due to the faltering budget. It concerned an overweight band of
beer-chugging bowlers that are murdered by a rival bowling team and
come back from the dead for revenge in true EC style. Its a shame we
will never get to see this story but it is very close in theme and
structure to both Oldf Chief Woodenhead and The Hitchhiker.

All in all, Creepshow 2 is worth a look and remains a guilty pleasure
of mine that I have enjoyed with alarming regularity over the years. It
may not be up to the standards set by the first Creepshow but there are
more painful ways to spend an evening. Ask The Hitchhiker...
<|_=00=_|>
Masters of Horror Stephen King and George A. Romero return to deliver
more comic book style thrills in "Creepshow 2." With original
"Creepshow" cinematographer Michael Gornick stepping in as director,
the film is not only slimmer on content (three stories instead of five)
but on budget and star-power as well. That doesn't mean that horror
fans aren't in for a heaping serving of campy carnage candy, though. In
tradition with the original, "Creepshow" is hellbent on making its
viewers laugh and squirm in their seats simultaneously.

While Gornick is no George A. Romero, he certainly brings a touch of
style to the film that serves it well. Animated segments aside, the
look and tone of the original is carried over into its sequel, with
some surprisingly flashy moments that make one wonder why the director
fell off the face of the Earth (you know, aside from the fact that this
flick flopped). The script, penned by Romero, has its ups and downs,
with some stories being more effective and more competent than others.
Variety, however, is the key to the film's success. If one thing can be
said about this affair, it is that it never bores and it certainly goes
by quickly enough. In fact, some would say the fun ends far too early.

The three stories are a mixed bag of creepy and goofy, with the first
concerning a wooden Indian propped outside of a small-town general
store. When local punks rob its kindly owners, the statue comes to life
seeking revenge. This bit is rather slow moving and sets the movie off
on the wrong foot. Although not terrible by any means, it is in sharp
contrast to the two that follow. Next up, we follow a foursome of guys
and gals going for a swim in a secluded lake. Soon they find themselves
being feasted upon by what can only be described as an oil slick
surrounded by a Hefty bag. Of the three, this is probably the
strongest, with some genuinely creepy moments and terrific special
effects. Then, to wrap things up, we find a woman of questionable
morals being stalked on the highway by a drifter she accidentally hit.
While his insistence on thanking her for the ride makes him seem
harmless enough, the woman quickly slips into madness as she tries to
rid herself of the passenger to no avail. This is the one segment most
likely to induce a few unintentional chuckles for its ridiculously
over-the-top premise and execution.

Overall, there's a noticeable drop in quality from the first, but the
sense of dread and humor is still intact. "Creepshow 2" is certainly a
worthy sequel with a few moments of brilliance that may have panned out
better in feature length films. "The Raft," in particular, would have
been a great 80's teen monster movie in the vein of the remake of "The
Blob" that would roll into theaters a year later. Taken for what it is,
though, this sequel is like a bag of Halloween candy -- some hits, some
misses, but certainly worth the time regardless.
<|_=00=_|>
You have to be in the mood to watch this sort of thing late at night
and I was definitely in the mood although I was about to turn the film
off after the first story about the wooden Indian. I just wanted to
watch that to see what DOROTHY LAMOUR was doing in a horror film. I
notice she won a Saturn award for the role but I was underwhelmed by
her performance.

However, if you stay with it, CREEPSHOW 2 improves with each story.
There are no real touches of originality in any of them except for the
clever use of animation used quite extensively and very effectively to
bridge the gap between stories.

CHIEF WOODEN HEAD gets the film off to a start about a couple running a
store in the middle of the desert without paying customers who are left
some valuables by an Indian who owes them a debt. What they don't know
is that their store is about to be invaded by a trio of ruthless thugs
led by an Indian lad who is willing to kill in order to grab whatever
loot he can. Their death is avenged by--well, guess who? Some clever
touches here, but nothing that really stands out. Nice performance by
GEORGE KENNEDY gives the whole tale some much needed class.

THE RAFT is compulsively watchable once you see the set-up wherein four
attractive young couples decide to swim out to a raft where they are
all about to meet their grisly deaths. PAUL SATTERFIELD in his yellow
speedos is the standout among these and his demise is particularly
chilling. It's got all the requisite suspense and horror you'd expect
from King and the special effects are particularly gruesome. DANIEL
BEER as Satterfield's worried pal does a nice job, especially in the
scene where he almost takes advantage of the sleeping gal.

THE HITCHHIKER could easily have been the one that steals the show, but
it becomes a little too repetitious and fond of its own dark sense of
humor to be taken seriously. Howevere, LOIS CHILES is very convincing
as the distraught woman at the wheel who does everything she can to get
rid of a dead man who keeps coming back for more.

Summing up: Give it a chance and it becomes compulsively watchable in
the old tradition of horror king Stephen.
<|_=00=_|>
"Creepshow 2" is a pretty enjoyable horror anthology that features some
gruesome surprises.The first tale "Old Chief Woodenhead" is about a
wooden Indian statue outside a small general store which comes to life
when some local youths kill the elderly couple during the robbery. This
story plays like a routine slasher flick with the statue as the
killer.The special effects are excellent and there is a good amount of
gore.Unfortunately the script is predictable and the acting from the
younger cast is unconvincing.The second tale "The Raft" is about some
teenagers who,whilst hanging out on the raft,are slowly eaten by a
blob-like creature which lives in the lake.This story is fast-paced and
appropriately gruesome with truly satisfying climax.The third tale "The
Hitchhiker" is about a woman who does a hit-and-run on a hitchhiker and
thinks she's got away with it,only to be confronted with the dead
hitchhiker numerous times down the road.This story offers plenty of
scares and the hitchhiker is hilarious with his incredibly funny line
'thanks for a ride,lady'.All in all if you enjoyed the first
"Creepshow" give its sequel a look.8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
As sequels go, quite good. The three (Not five, budgetary reason) tales
are fun (and surprisingly scary). The acting is okay, including a few
good performances. The tales, which I will now rate, all have gore,
fun, and scares. The first segment: "Old Chief Wooden-head" is an
old-fashion revenge story. It has a slow and mysterious build, but with
enough action to keep things interesting. Acting-wise this episode does
okay, nothing too great, but pretty good. The effects in this episode
are a little wooden (no pun intended) but capture the essence of the
menacing but slow-moving monsters of 50s media. The second episode,
"The Raft" Again, okay acting but nothing great. But the blob monster
ranges from looking real enough to looking kinda horrible (mostly in
the earlier shots). Stephen King was at least somewhat right when he
described the monster as an "old rug". Despite that, this episode still
dishes out some good scares and creepy gore. The third installment is
the scariest one. Good acting, scary scenes, and scary gore. In all
Creepshow 2 is worthy (but not equal to) the original.
<|_=00=_|>
"Creepshow 2" is divided in three stories, conducted by a leading
segment where a boy that loves the horror comic book Creepshow buys
seeds of carnivorous plant and is bullied by four teenagers. Meanwhile
the Creep tells the tales of Creepshow:

(1) "Old Chief Wood'nhead"  The elders Ray (George Kennedy) and Martha
Spruce (Dorothy Lamour) have lived their whole life and raised their
family with their small store in an Arizona town. Now the town is
economically decadent and Ray gives credit to his costumers including
the Indians of Ben Whitemoon's tribe. When Ray is repairing the wooden
statue of an old chief in the front door, Ben (Frank Salsedo) arrives
and asks him to keep the jewels of his tribe as a guarantee for their
debts. However, Ben's nephew Sam (Holt McCallany) unexpectedly arrives
with two other punks to steal Ray, and he kills the elders. They expect
to travel to Hollywood, but the Old Chief Wood'nhead will not let them
go.

This segment is the best one, with a heartbreaking and gore tale of
justice and revenge. My vote is eight.

(2) "The Raft"  The teenagers Deke (Paul Satterfield) and Randy
(Daniel Beer) travel with Laverne (Jeremy Green) and Rachel (Page
Hannah) to a lake expecting to smoke weed, swim and get laid. They swim
to a raft that is floating in the middle of the lake, but they discover
a carnivorous blob in the lake that is hungry.

This segment is silly but the conclusion is very funny. Daryl Hannah's
red haired sister is gorgeous but has a minor participation in the
story. My vote is six.

(3) "The Hitchhiker"  In Maine, the unfaithful Annie Lansing (Lois
Chiles) stays too long having sex with her escort and is late to meet
her husband in the airport. She drives her Mercedes Bens in a hurry and
loses control on the road. Annie runs over a hitchhiker, but she does
not help the man and hit-and-run, questioning whether she can live with
the situation. She discovers that the hitchhiker will not leave her.

This is the creepiest segment, with a cameo of Stephen King in the role
of a truck driver. Would Annie's conscience or the hitchhiker haunting
Annie? My vote is seven. 

I regret that only three films have been released for this entertaining
series. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Creepshow 2"
<|_=00=_|>
As good as the first Creepshow - almost. These three twisted tales are
fun but scary too. If you enjoyed the first film then you should enjoy
Creepshow II as well.

"Chief Wooden Head" is by far a more of a drama or serious story to me.
It's just a good horror story. "The Raft" is good but my least favorite
of the trilogy. It's good, but typical young kids out for a good time
that end up dead - the twist is it's not a slasher. "The Hitchhiker" is
my favorite as far as comedy goes. This one had me laughing very hard.
"Thanks for the ride lady" still rings in my head and I laugh every
time.

Anyway, Creepshow II is worth watching if you like a bit of comedy with
your horror.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
While, 'Creepshow 2' directed by Michael Gornick is not the scariest
movie out there, based upon the short stories by author Stephen King. I
do have to say, this American live-action/animated horror taken from
tales from King's 1985's collection book, 'Skeleton Crew' ,can still
give you, goosebumps, while watching it. Without spoiling, too much of
the scares, like the original horror movie, 'Creepshow 2', was supposed
to have, five short stories adapted from author Stephen King, being
told, during the course of the film. However, due to budgetary reasons,
two of the stories, 'Pinfall' & "Cat from Hell', were scrapped; with
the latter, being filmed for 1990's 'Tales from the Darkside: The
Movie'. Instead, the movie went with three stories structure with "Old
Chief Wooden Head' on the helm, 'The Raft' as the meat of the story,
and 'The Hitchhiker' being the climax. While, this story structure
might sound right to some critics, since the first tale is most
developed of all the three stories, had the longest sequence in the
film and on the surface level, the most controversial story facade of
the three, since it deals with Native Americans. I still believe, there
is still a problem with having it, display in the forefront. First off,
the story about a wooden Indian decor, taking revenge on some
unlikeable robbers for killing his cigar store, owner, Mr. Ray Spruce
(George Kennedy) was pretty bland and somewhat boring. It's no 1980
'Shining'. It's just another simple minded revenge story. Nothing
really smart or scary about it. I was really hoping for a Golem like,
complexity feel to the story, but it just felt safe & disappointing
with the sequence being not really gory with most of the kills being
off-screen, and the visuals, not being challenging. Still, I do have to
say, the acting throughout it, was good, and the story does leave the
audience with a feel good moment, even if the action is somewhat cheesy
and silly. However, it wasn't nothing worth, putting as the first
sequence in the film. I thought, the story would makes more sense for
it to be the climax, as it allows the audience to leave, with a
somewhat cheering moment, seeing how the other two stories have, very
obnoxious protagonists. Since the movie didn't do that, the rest of the
film really leaves a sour taste in the audience mouth. That brings us
to 'the Raft', a story about a group of very unlikeable teenagers,
getting trapped on a floating raft, when they discover a carnivorous
mysterious blob that looks like an oil slick in the lake, surrounding
them. Unlike the first story, I kinda dig this concept. It reminds me
of the isolation horrors genre films like 2016's 'the Shallows' mixed
with the style of 1990's 'Tremors'. Just wish, it expanded the story,
not by exposing the origins of the creature, but showing the madness of
the characters slowly developing, while being trapped on the raft, like
the source material. It really could been, a strong environmental &
psychological message if it wanted to. Still, it not, a big deal. The
only problem with this sequence story, I really had, against it, was
how dumb-down & awful, the characters, were. Why would one of the
character accept to grope, another character, during a tense moment,
while being trapped on the raft!? It makes no sense. Another problem
with this sequence is the acting. Daniel Beer as Randy AKA Poncho is
one of the worst actors, I have, ever witness in a horror movie. He
really does destroy, the tone of this sequence. I can't help, laughing,
how bad, his reactions were. Yet, unlike 'Old Chief Wooden Head', I was
not disappointing with the visuals here. While, the creature look like,
a rain-out, trash bag. It still look somewhat scary. Also, the oily
deaths were very gruesome and the suspense was equally, worth the
punch. Even the ending was somewhat clever with the sign and the
creature being able to go onto land was a lot better, than the generic
and clichés story ending, we got, with 'the Hitchhiker'. This story
was, by far, the most, bland of all of the three, with the protagonist,
Annie Lansing (Lois Chiles), accidentally kills a hitchhiker with her
car, only to be haunted later, by him, on her way home. It was hardly
scary. The only scary part of the sequence, was seeing Stephen King
cameo as a truck driver. It's very surreal to see, seeing him, here,
seeing how he would end up, get run over, in 1999 in similar fashion.
It almost seem like he wrote his own prophecy of attempted demise with
stories such as this, and other novels like 1987's 'misery' & 1983's
'Christine'. Sadly it was ruin, by how silly & unrealistic, the driving
scenes were, and how cheesy, the one liners, was being spoken. Sadly,
this sequence was lot more cartoony, than the animation sequences,
featuring a kid fighting off, bullies with giant Venus flytraps that
were intermixed as prologue, interlude, & epilogue. Despite that, at
least, the animation sequences were well-drawn. I just wish, the
post-credit scene wasn't there, as it kinda ruins the illusion of the
comic book movie with its preachy, safe message about not blaming comic
books for juvenile delinquency. I guess, this was added, after parents
complain about the first movie, being too violent and gory. It just
didn't fit. Nevertheless, 'Creepshow 2' just didn't performed as well,
as the first movie. There were far too little thrills, and even fewer
appeal to intelligence to be a great film. At least, it was better than
the unofficial sequel, 'Creepshow 3' in 2006, which had no involvement
from Stephen King or producer, George Romero. That film was horrible.
In the end, while, this movie might be below average. I still think
it's worth checking out, at least, once. After all, there is no
business, like show business.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

This movie shows you that you don't need a lot of money to make a
quality scary movie. The movie's star always faded predicated on the
weakest story coming first. While it features the best actors of the
group, it is the least scary. The best story is in the middle, The
Raft, which is downright creepy with pop out scares I will not ruin for
you. If you put this on and think of turning it off, like many people
did, you will miss two great stories. The Raft features a group of
nameless young actors who do surprisingly well at making the gross out
scares work. There is this thing that looks like an oil slick in the
middle of the lake. This mistaken appearance leads to the first
horrific death. Be warned, this one is much more gory than the original
with the exception of that thing in the crate that rips Barbeau's face
off. The Raft story works because the creature is so clever, it uses
many tricks to feed upon these kids. You think it only has one means of
attack, brace yourself, it is much smarter than these poor young
people. It features popcorn erupting surprises including one, at the
very end, that produced a rare theater wide scream in unison; this is
always the mark of a great scare. The first story about a sweet old
couple robbed by a gang of toughs headed by a Native American immensely
proud of his long flowing hair discovers that the guardian Native
American chief statue has a fondness for this couple which he
demonstrates by hunting the gang down one by one.

For me, the last story is a close second, like the final story in the
original Creepshow, "They Creep Up On You," it is filled with dark as
pitch humor that still is, forgive me, drop dead funny. A philandering
wife, played well by Lois Chiles, is on her way back from her
rendezvous with her boy toy. She pays a little too much attention to
her worries about being caught by hubby and rams a hitchhiker full
speed. When she examines him, he appears quite dead, the rest of the
segment is his haunting her with hilarious signs like: Thanks for the
Ride Lady and, my personal favorite, You Killed Me. The story plays
with the audience, is he really there? Is she going crazy? I won't
spoil it for you, it does let you know at the very end. Again, like The
Raft, it is full of pop out scares; please, don't eat during this one.
Just when she thinks she is safe, he pops out on her, all smashed to
crap, looking progressively worse and worse until she reaches her
imagined safety of home. The second and third stories are why I own
this movie. The first one is the weakest, which killed it at the box
office. The weakest in the original Creepshow, the Stephen King comic
farmer story, is second and was proceeded by the scary Father's Day. 

What will surprise you is how a low budget movie, which spends all of
its actor money on the first story, actually achieves the best scares
with the young obscure actors in the second Raft story. Chiles was a
bit actress in Moonraker and Death On The Nile; she is quite talented
but hardly an A list actress. If you don't like the first story you can
do what we couldn't, skip it. It has a couple of scares but we all know
what is going to happen. It works like one of the popular Friday The
13th stories of the time; the chief is a stand in for Jason or Freddy.
This movie is singular in showing you that writing, not budget, is what
makes a good scary movie. The Raft was ripped off later in other movies
but you will see that the original cannot be beaten. The young actors
were the surprise along with Chiles who shows you the good actress she
always was. Take my advice, turn off the lights when you come to the
final two segments, and, trust me, finish eating before you get to
these last two ones. A Surprisingly Good Low Budget Horror Movie.
Q.E.D.
