

The Black Room turned out to be an engrossing semi-masterpiece.  I was
expecting mundane from this forgotten  horror, but what I saw was more
kinky, twisted and sick than I'd imagined.   Something about the acting, the
script , the directing or everything was different than other films.  It
also has the most graffically depicted blood transfusions I've ever seen.
They were painstakingly slow over these shots.  I had to turn
away....gallons of blood...  It's a shame Clara Perryman didn't do much
after this film.  She was excellent and made the troubled relationship with
her and Jim Stathis {also great} possibly more interesting than the horror
elements.  Linnea Quigley plays a small role as the babysitter.  She says
maybe 5 words.  
<|_=00=_|>
Larry, a dashing family man, decides he needs some escapism in his life
and rents a room to fulfill his darkest fantasies. The room he finds is
within a Hollywood Hills mansion and is decorated seductively in black
with lots of candles and drink. His doting wife goes along with the
fantasy, but what she doesn't know (if you can believe it) is that the
lurid tales of prozzies and pickups he's ravished in the room are
actually true. And what Larry doesn't know is that the kooky siblings
from whom he rents the "black room" are after blood and not his rent!
This is a quirky and unique low-budget film that delivers in some
areas. It manages to go from creepy to sizzling hot to awkwardly funny
from scene to scene. The acting is excellent for a low budget-80s film,
especially by the four relatively unknown leads. Jimmy Stathis (Larry)
manages to pull off loving father and husband in some scenes and
complete sleazeball in others. He's a character that is difficult to
root for (and even watch at times), but thankfully he isn't the only
protagonist in the film. His wife (played by the fantastic Clara
Perryman) smiles and laughs along with Larry's kinky fantasies that
don't involve her, which is an aspect of the story that comes across as
silly considering she knows that he really does have this "black room."
But once the story gets going and she becomes more involved with the
plot, it's easy to get past this. The demented landlord sibs steal
every scene they're in. Stephen Knight is believably lecherous and
Cassandra Gava is both sexy and insane as his caretaker and BDSM-loving
sister. The atmosphere, especially in the titular room, is eerie and
alluring. The score is inventive and one of the movie's high points. So
while some of the plot premises are a bit brow-raising, and the horror
in the film didn't seem to fully lift off, this is an original and
steamy genre movie in which I found enough things to enjoy. Look for
Christopher McDonald and Linnea Quigley in small roles.
<|_=00=_|>
A man rents a room a brother & sister so he can have extramarital
affairs away from his own house, however his landlords are draining the
blood from everyone who enters the room.

An extremely dark and original take on the vampire genre. Set in the
modern day (1981 when it was made) unlike many vampire movies of the
time, the setting does give it much more credibility than its Gothic
counterparts. The draining sequences are very dramatic, no fangs here
but a massive machine which pumps out the blood into some very gory
scenes. The performances are a lot better than you might think, the 4
leads are surprisingly good as is most of the supporting cast. The
second half of the movie is great, tension mounts very well, the pace
improves and the last 10-15mins are superb and quite scary at times.
The film does have a couple of issues though, in the first half pacing
is quite sluggish, as the set up sequences to key scenes take an age
and at times fail at keeping the viewers attention, editing is also
quite strange at the beginning (although that could just have been the
copy I watched 1983 UK VHS).

Overall a very good surprising watch, if you enjoy weird fairly gory
horror there should be plenty for you to enjoy here. Interestingly this
quite rare horror was put onto the DPP's section 3 list here in the UK
(meaning the police could seize it from the shelves), a real shame as
this well made little horror didn't deserve the negative attention it
got.
<|_=00=_|>
Damn, those good old days. This movie is something weird. It is made in
84, full slasher period. But this isn't a slasher, I even don't know
were to place it. Face it, the first minutes all you see is nudity. Due
the fact that it is an OOP it is even harder to see it unless you live
over here in Europe were it became available as an freebee on the
Bloodstained Romance DVD, but even that one is a hard to get already.
So I thought, is this a soft erotic flick or what, because the cover is
a nude girl looking towards a camera. After a while when a person hire
a room, the black one, to cheat on his wife it becomes clear what it's
all about, but again, first you will have to watch a nude girl dancing
and doing weird stuff. It's when the tenant brings his first hooker
with him that the film changes into a horror flick. Once his wife gets
to know what the black room is it changes a bit into a revenge (sexual)
movie. Again, weird scene's are shown, the score is creepy too and more
and more you will get to know the why and who about the brother and
sister hiring the black room. At the end you will be surprised again
about the brother and sister...weird story, strange editing, creepy
score ( a lot of delay on voices...). but the other reason why people
want to see it is because Linnea Quigley is in it, but she's only 5
minutes in it and stays dressed. Still, worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
The titular Black Room is the room where some of the darkest sexual
fantasies are brought to life.It's candle-lit and secretly hidden in
the mansion of doom.Brother and sister Jason and Brigette rent it for
sexually adventurous people.Unfortunately Jason has a rare blood
disease and he needs fresh blood transfusions in order to stay
alive.The murderous duo kills most of the people who rent the Black
Room and drain them of their blood.Their next victims are going to be
Larry and Robin-a married couple with two kids."The Black Room" is an
erotic and suitably dark horror film with some nudity and graphic gore
including Bridgette's neck stabbing by Robin in the finale.Linnea
Quigley has a small cameo as a babysitter.8 blood transfusions out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
Pretty twisted Horror film, that has a few good moments here and there,
with some creepy Blood transfusion scenes, however it's just too dull
for it's own good. All the characters are OK, and the story while had a
lot of potential is rather dull, however the blood transfusion scenes
looked frighteningly real, and as a result they were extremely
disturbing. It's well made and decently written, and it started out
really interesting, but it just couldn't keep up the pace, plus I found
the ending to be disappointing. Linnea Quigley has no more then a very
small role in this so, I was also disappointed about that, and Stephen
Knight does a good job as the lead, as he was pretty twisted, plus I
got this in a DVD Horror set called A Taste Of Evil, along with a bunch
of other Horror films. There is lots of blood,however it's not all that
gory, and for it's low budget it was pretty well done, however as I
said it just couldn't sustain it's interest. This is a pretty twisted
Horror film, that has a few good moments here and there, with some
creepy blood transfusion scenes, however it's just too dull for it's
own good, I would pass,but I guess it's worth a watch if you have
nothing better to do. The Direction is OK. Elly Kenner&Norman Thaddeus
Vane do an OK job here with decent camera work, and doing a good job on
it's low budget, however the pace is too inconsistent for my liking.
The Acting is actually alright. Stephen Knight is great as the lead, he
was creepy, twisted, sick, and gave a very creepy performance, the most
creepy thing about it though was he seemed like a normal person. Linnea
Quigley did well in her small role. Christopher McDonald is OK I guess
sin his short time. Rest of the cast are OK as well. Overall I would
pass, but I guess it's worth a watch if you have nothing absolutely
better to do. *1/2 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Sleazy and bored hubby Larry (well played by Jimmy Stathis) ain't too
happy with his marriage to his neglected wife Robin (a fine and
touching performance by Clara Perryman). Larry decides to rent a creepy
black room in a swanky Hollywood Hills mansion from the strange Jason
(muscular Stephen Knight) and his equally odd, but alluring sister
Bridget (the strikingly lovely and exotic Cassandra Gaviola) in order
to put some much-needed pizazz back into his dreary love life. Larry
uses the room to have sex with young ladies. Unbeknownst to Larry,
Jason in turn drains the young women of their blood and shoots up their
precious life fluid with a needle. Ably directed by Elly Kenner and
Norman Thaddeus Vane (the latter also wrote and directed the strictly
so-so "Frightmare"), with solid acting from the entire cast (Linnea
Quigley has a nifty small role as a near victim babysitter towards the
end of the movie), a compellingly bizarre and twisted story, a
genuinely spooky atmosphere, several aberrant touches (Jason and
Bridget like to spy on Larry as he's doing just what you think with the
girls he picks up), and a harrowing conclusion, this pleasingly
offbeat, inspired and unjustly overlooked low-budget horror sleeper
deserves to be both better known and more widely seen by fans of
enjoyably deviant outr√© cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
A sordid little tale of a modern day vampire and his sister, who lure
unsuspecting victims to their hilltop retreat in order to relieve them
of their life juice. The last 20 minutes are actually quite a laugh -
and it does score gore hound points for the reanimated woman with coat
hanger sticking out of her neck - but it's not worth the slog through
leaden dialogue, implausible, soporific plot and incompetent editing to
get there. Death by coat hanger notwithstanding, the editing is
probably the most shocking thing about this film.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Black Room" is an incredibly bad and dull film without much going
for it.

**SPOILERS**

Finding a new apartment, Larry, (Jimmy Stathis) decides to buy it and
turn it into a bachelor pad, hiding it from Robin, (Clara Perryman) his
wife. When landlords Jason, (Stephen Knight) and Bridget, (Cassandra
Gava) question him on the purchase, he uses it as a place to sleep with
a multitude of women hitchhikers he picks up. When she hears about the
place, she doesn't think much of the stories and think it's just a
bunch of stories. Soon afterward, a series of strange disappearances
plague the women who have visited the place, but they ignore it and
decide to focus on their marriage and continue on with bringing people
over to visit. Finally realizing that the landlords are murdering the
women who visit as a means to acquire blood for transfusions to fix his
blood-disease, they try to stop them before it's too late.

The Good News: There's hardly anything worthwhile about this one. The
fact that the film's lone action scene in the middle of the film comes
from a rather nice chase scene is to be commended, as there's a couple
good things about it. The fact that it's a rather energetic scene with
the different characters going out after it through the woods, and it
makes for an effective atmosphere. The sleaze factor here is also
rather nice, with the way it manages to create an icky feeling with the
relationship it creates with them, as well as the general fact of what
they're doing offering up some rather nice sleaze. The last bit in here
that works is the film's nicely done climax, which is where the main
action occurs. From the chase through the house to the different
stalk-and-slash tactics used, it offers up some interest. Further
helping it is the film's only real gore scenes, which aren't much to
talk about but at least it offers up something. These here are all that
work for the film.

The Bad News: This is a terribly dull and completely worthless horror
entry. The fact that there's hardly any horror at all in the film is
the biggest and most damaging prospect, effectively making it so dull
and lifeless that the film does almost nothing at all during it's
running time. The fact that it rests so much on it's relationships
rather than it's horror is where it falls foul, making them the central
point when they aren't that good or exciting to begin with. The sibling
angle is so lamely done it's still up in the air at the end of the
film, as it seems to incorporate aspects of both a brother-sister bond
as well as an incestuous air between them in certain scenes. The other
angle with the marriage-on-the-rocks story is not that much better,
full of never-ending scenes that are purely not that scary at all.
That's the film's biggest problem, nothing in here is considered scary,
and here, what happens between them is exactly that, not that great at
providing anything to counter the boredom these non-horror sequences
create. None of them are there for the best of what makes the film
entertaining or interesting, and just make the film incredibly dull to
sit through. The amount of time spent on those angles are nothing
worthwhile at all, providing no scenes of value and just continuing a
storyline that isn't all to concerned with horror aspects at all. That
also means that we don't get anything remotely close to the horror
genre until the end, with only a mildly interesting chase scene to
provide the goods until then. The scares are missing, the gore is
non-existent until the end, and the kills are relegated to simply being
just the scenes of the victim being drained of blood. It leaves such a
bad aftertaste that there's almost no need for it. Even the fact that
it's a sleazy-feeling film is neutered by the fact that it's only in
one scene, and despite all the different scenes in here that provided
opportunity to do so, it doesn't offer anything up, making the film
even more of a cheat and providing even more flaws to hate against it.

The Final Verdict: An unbearably slow and dull film that barely has
anything worthwhile, or even remotely horror-based about it. It should
really be avoided at all costs unless this sort of sleazy thriller is
appealing, but for any other sort of style this one should be ignored
and forgotten.

Rated R: Graphic Language, Violence, Nudity, several sex scenes and
drug use
