
Consider the range and the capture of characters in one movie, Colors
delivers multiple plot lines from a number of sides. 

I remember when this movie first came out I was in Jr. high school.
Colors was a controversial movie talked about by teachers, principles
and parents because, believe it or not, it had a tendency for
glorification and encouraging gang membership. 

To my surprise, the movie has little glorification in it and was a grim
summary of Los Angeles gang life (and even that of law enforcement.)
The movie does not spoon feed its audience, save for a few minor
comments that were cheesy at their worst and cleverly woven in at their
best. 

In some cases the portrayal of gang life in LA might have been TOO
broad and sophisticated for many viewers. The title COLORS and its
implication was meant to explain the rival Crip and Blood gangs but in
fact that was merely a pretext. Soon into the movie the viewer is taken
into various other neighborhoods as well as other gangs, including
WHITE FENCE and 21st Street. 

For those that denounce this movie as being outdated, cheesy or
otherwise, it's hard for me to understand what you are paying attention
to. If you remember the 80's in the slightest, it was a time of
decadent and flamboyant neon glow ala Prince, Michael Jackson and
various other nonsense. The irony is that COLORS portrays a world that
was virtually isolated and separate from the 80's because that is what
it was MEANT to point out. This was gang life at its peak, before any
of the gangster rap hit white suburbia and became a marketable fad.
This was BEFORE white folks thought it was cool. It was isolated from
the look and feel of the rest of the 80's because this world was
isolated from the general population.

For this reason I am surprised that anyone would call the movie
outdated in any way. "Timeless" is the word I use to describe it.

Despite all this, Hopper manages to incorporate the storyline between
Duval and Penn. Not only is this a brilliant interaction between two
great actors, it also has a more marketable value to a white audience
that would otherwise have been turned off by the subject matter and
considered it, unfairly, as a "blacksploitation" film. Let's face it,
Hollywood is big business. The ability to market this movie with ANY
semblance of a good plot line but making it even remotely realistic is
an amazing achievement. 

Hopper goes beyond doing both. I would not be surprised to see this
movie in the classics section, someday.
<|_=00=_|>
My generation remembers these times...This is before Rodney King and
the riots, before the relentless moralizing of Spike Lee and John
Singleton. Back then, urban gang warfare was comfortably distant. This
is before cell phones, bling, rims, before the thug life became a
marketable commodity.

Colors is distinctive for Hopper's tight focus, his honest approach and
complete lack of sentimentality. The world depicted here is horizontal,
and filmed horizontally; it is ugly and unironic, and in a way
egalitarian; there are NO courts or lawyers, every introduction of
ethics is literally shot down. 

It's hard to imagine anything being made like this in today's
multiculti/PC world, any such attempt would immediately provoke
shrieking and clutching of skirts at the sight of 'racism'. 

This paradigm of movie-making didn't survive, it disappeared like
Duvall's soul in that departing helicopter shot. Unfortunately, the
trend went the way of "Boyz n the Hood".
<|_=00=_|>

Until I checked this out on IMDB, I had no idea that Dennis Hopper was the
director. Wow, that says a lot about his directing ability.

In a void, this movie might not be great. Someone from the UK complained
about it. I'm not from Compton but, this movie rates up there with the
other
true-to-lifers like Boyz in the Hood, and other gang related "classics" (as
they deserve to be called).

This is a great movie with great acting and a great plotline. It's a pretty
realistic view (again, I'm not a gang banger, so maybe my view is skewed)
of
the gang life in L.A. And it was the first to really portray it... I'm
still
a big fan of Boyz in the Hood (not for excitement, but for a good story
about a tough life). But this was the first (as I recall) and Hopper
deserves a great deal of credit for that. Penn and Duvall are fantastic
actors and both come through in a big way in this movie.

My personal opinion: This movie has been, by far, underrated...

<|_=00=_|>

Before you had BOYS N THE HOOD or MENACE II SOCIETY, there was COLORS.
This
movie is the original article in urban-street dramas that spawned many
followers in the 90's. But like those films it is an intense, powerful
movie
that takes you to the streets in an extremely realistic way. The caption
on
the VHS cover says something like two gangs at war(Bloods & Crips)with the
police caught in between. Well, that is pretty misleading. Although most
films like this would stick with the gang war as the main focus, COLORS
has
many different plot levels that all come together very nicely. Sean Penn &
Robert Duvall are right on the mark as the two officers on the beat. The
film ultimately succeeds through its perspectives, giving points of view
from all sides and fully expresses the harsh reality that everyone
involved
faces. When the film first came out, it was bashed for its extreme
violence
and portrayal of gang members. Well, I definitely think Dennis Hopper did
an
excellent job and I feel that violence is crucial in a film like this to
add
to its strong sense of reality which some people may not be too familiar
with.
<|_=00=_|>
Dennis Hopper's film Colors may seem like hundreds of miles removed
from his first feature as director Easy Rider, but it's made twenty
years later and it shows effectively at least two things on his part:
first, that he can express himself in material that would appear to be
a "for-hire" work, specifically with having an older, calmer version of
himself in Duvall (the kind that tries to think things through and can
be ferocious but has experience from a life of work) and Penn (the
young hot-head who you know is good but is troubled in other ways), and
secondly that he can go back to some of his earliest acting roots,
working in movies featuring rebels and gangs (not least of which Rebel
Without a Cause) and actually give them the fire and energy and
as-much-as-possible realism so desperately needed. Colors is a mature
work from a filmmaker who knows what he's doing, and will let the
actors and the mood of the streets and the temperament of the current
events (which were practically untenable in the late 80s and early 90s
in gang-banger) LA.

Matter of fact, this should have been Hopper's professional
calling-card, showing that he can make a film that isn't an art-film or
too experimental (Last Movie) or under the radar (Out of the Blue).
Indeed you'd have to remind most people that Hopper even directed it
since, frankly, he lets his stars steal the show, and rightfully so.
There's not a solid plot to speak of, more-so a character study of two
cops, one older one younger, who are partnered up and have to tackle
the ghettos and slums, loaded with "Blue" (Crips) and "Red") (Bloods),
and also the various Hispanic gangs that are not as notorious but still
as powerful and dangerous.

It's a series of pieces that soon take shape into a story, but it's not
even about that. It's just about following these gangs and being true
to their nature: of their rites of passage (beating up the new kids and
setting them off to prove themselves), their bond and codes, their
can-do attitude even when they're behind bars or in hand-cuffs, and the
collective wisdom that you can either talk to a cop or just run... or,
another alternative, shoot. It's also about a value system and class
differences; the former relating, of course, to Hodges (Duvall) and
Penn, who don't see eye to eye on how to apprehend suspects or treat
them. Penn's younger guy isn't a crooked cop or corrupted, but he's a
hot-head, a junkie for adrenaline, while Duvall's been around the block
way too many times (and even admits that he had a higher post before
and is still on the streets for reasons not totally made clear) to put
up with being "like a gangster" as he says.

And the class part relates to the difference between McGavin (Penn) and
his supposed girlfriend, who comes from the Latino parts of the hood
and has family that Hodges has come in contact with as a cop, putting
them up against the wall. It's through this that we see the split
between the people in Lost Angeles, and while it's not a subtle point
really (and may even be one of the more clich√© things in the picture),
it still goes a way to try and add immediacy to the drama, and McGain's
own personal conflicts on the streets. And, again, those gangs, some
played by actors (Don Cheadle and Damon Wayans in early roles, Sy
Richardson), others by I would assume real gang-bangers and people
'from the streets' (another thing Hopper is good at, casting real
people, which he doesn't get enough credit for), that are allowed to be
fleshed out and made into real people, or as real as they can be in
this movie.

The filmmakers don't make us feel sympathy for the gang members, but
through making them human beings as opposed to just targets and
caricatures, it adds to the whole experience of being about something.
Nothing here is exploited; it's a well-researched time-capsule that
still holds its own years later, least as long as there are crips and
bloods and other gangs and, you know, hot-headed cops with old-timer
veterans. Very solid, professional film-making.
<|_=00=_|>
Colors First-Viewing, TV(Dennis Hopper)- Sean Penn, Robert Duvall, Don
Cheadle, Maria Conchita Alonso, Glen Plummer, Grand L. Bush, Damon
Wayans, Leon Robinson

Robert Duvall and Sean Penn star as two cops trying to fight gang
violence in Los Angelos. Duvall is an old cop, who is going to retire,
and Penn plays a rookie who is keen to make his presence felt on the
force. Both give good performances, although Penn was clearly the
highlight of the film, with an interesting character and very good
performance. Robert Duvall was also good though, with a complex
performance. Don Cheadle was virtually absent, was a bit of a villain,
portraying a Crip gangbanger, but had very little lines, unfortunately.
Maria Conchita Alonso played a woman in the ghetto that Officer McGavin
(Penn) was interested in, and gave a very average performance. Other
gangbangers played by Glen Plummer, Grand L. Bush, Damon Wayans and
Leon Robinson, were all good in their small roles. Overall a good film
depicting gang violence in LA, also had some good action sequences, and
good acting. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
The film was the first directorial work by actor Dennis Hopper in 18
years. Like 1969's 'Easy Rider', this film was notable for its real
life write the plot elements by screenwriters Michael Schiffer &
Richard Di Lello. However, do to that standard of writing. It's
somewhat slow in paced. There are tons of pointless boring filler, in
this film. The violence action in this film is also very random, just
as much as it's nudity. It really comes out of nowhere, and has little
bearing to the main plot. While, most of the action scenes, are
somewhat realistic in tone, however, there was at least, one scene at
the beach front that really went over the top. It felt like, I was
watching a different movie with its 'Lethal Weapon' style bike chase.
Because of that, I couldn't say, this movie was a great film. It was
too uneven. Still, the film was fine for the most part. Made in the
era, before the 1992 South Central riots & many years before 2000
Rampart scandal destroy the CRASH (Community Resources Against Street
Hoodlums) special operations unit of the Los Angeles Police Department
(LAPD). The film tells the story of two CRASH cops, experienced season
veteran, Officer Bob Hodges (Robert Duvall) and rookie partner, and
hot-head, Officer Danny McGavin (Sean Penn) patrolling the streets of
East Los Angeles, trying hard to keep the gang violence between the
Bloods, the Crips, and the Hispanic street gangs under control. Without
spoiling the American police procedural action crime film, too much,
this movie was infamous for its highly dangerous production, as film
producer Robert H. Solo hired real gang members as guardians as well as
actors. Two of them were shot during filming of this film. If that
wasn't enough, according to the filmmakers, shortly after the church
shooting scene wrapped, a church service a short distance away actually
was disrupted by gang gunfire. Things got worse for the production, as
reportedly, Sean Penn was arrested on 2nd April 1987 and spent close to
a month (33 days) in jail for assault after hitting an extra on the set
of this film who was taking snapshots of Penn without his permission.
It also didn't help that he was going through a nasty public divorce
with singer/actor Madonna, where the newspapers stated allegations of
domestic abuse. Despite what happen behind closed doors and his private
life, Sean Penn did pretty well in this role. Although, it wasn't much
of a stretch, since Penn was a total angry wild-man at this time.
Robert Duvall is also alright, but his role wasn't as superb to me, as
other critics saw it. I just seen it, as average at best. However, he
does fully earns the hallowed term "actor's actor." Anyways, both of
the main actors work well with each other, even if the whole 'bull and
cows' (good cop/bad cop) gimmick seem to run them, as very unrealistic
cops at the time. The supporting cast is just meh. Nothing much. It
kinda sucks that they got Don Cheadle in this film, and barely used
him. All, he does, is look menacing to the camera, and hardly speaks.
He totally got wasted in his limited role as arch-gang leader, Rocket.
I can also do, without Damon Wayans as Rocket's gang-member, T-Bone.
All the comedy scenes with him, felt a little bit out of place like
Courtney Gains's character, Whitey. If anybody, really shine in this
film, it had to be Trinidad Silva as 21th Street gang leader, Leo
'Frog' Lopez. He was amazing as the informer. He really look like he
belong in a real-life gang. It's too bad, that the actor died in 1988
in a car accident involving a collision with a drunken driver in
Whittier, California, after filming this movie. I really hope for more
from him. One thing that really made this film, very interesting is the
odd mixer of gangsta rap music with that of classic 1960s country hits.
It's weird, hearing Jaynett's 'Sally Go Around the Roses' & Willie
Nelson 'Bloody Mary Morning' with the intense rap songs of Ice T's
'Colors' and Big Daddy Kane 'Raw'. It was so jarring to me. I guess,
it's supposed to represented the large different between those, living
in the white community and those living in the black projects of Los
Angeles County in Color. However, the movie's music also shows the
weird unionize of multiply ethnicities under the banner of those who
choose to live, under the colors of law enforcement and those who
choose to wear the colors of the street gangs. No matter what, the
music for this film, kinda works for its plot; just as much as the
location of LA, works for the soundtrack. You really do get the sense
of gang-life and how it was like to be in the CRASH force.
Nevertheless, I would love to see, how the original script that took
place in Chicago and was more about drug dealing than gang members.
It's just seems, more interesting. In addition to that, there is a
version of the film that has an extended ending that is somewhat not
checking out. Just don't watch that version, if you haven't saw the
film, yet. Watch the theatrical cut. The new scenes are not that
satisfying. Overall: If you love movies like 2012's 'End of Watch' or
2001's 'Training Day', you will probably love this movie. While, it's
not the best cop movie out there. This somewhat excellent, powerful and
gripping crime drama is still worth checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
Viewed this film a few years ago and enjoyed it the second time around.
Sean Penn, (Officer Danny McGavin) was a rookie who started out knowing
just how to handle the various gangs in Los Angeles and even got all
hot and bothered about a nice looking gal who could Tease and Please
without any problems. His old time partner was, Robert Duvall,(Bob
Hodges), who was married and had a family and tried to take Danny
McGavin under his wing and calm him down. Bob Hodges was about to
retire and had handled the various gangs a different way that most of
the other Police officers and it seemed to work out very well. Bob got
all kinds of information he needed by just treating the gangs and their
leaders with a certain kind of respect. The film had plenty of action,
but was entirely too long for a story we have seen many times on the
Big Screen. However, Duval and Penn gave outstanding performances and
were great working together.
<|_=00=_|>
Gang violence in L.A., an experienced police officer paired with a
rookie trying to keep the peace, young people being drawn into gangs,
drive-by shootings with tragic consequences, and screaming relatives
following the shootings. We've seen this so many times and this 1988
film is no different. There are 2 good performances mainly by Robert
Duvall and Sean Penn as the 2 police officers caught up in all this
mayhem.

Of course, the ending is tragic, but what else would you expect.
Violence is never about to take a vacation.

The ending scene is where Penn is with a new rookie, a black officer,
trying to break him in. He is hot on his tail. Reminds me of Anne
Baxter at the end of "All About Eve."
<|_=00=_|>
Colors is a movie that shines brightly with quality actors Sean Penn
and Robert Duvall headlining the movie and Dennis Hopper sitting in the
director's chair for the first time since Easy Rider (1969). The film
could have easily been dismissed as a routine action movie but the end
result is a gritty crime drama that highlights a major problem across
the USA.

Colors focuses on the Los Angeles Police Department's CRASH Division
(Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums) combating the gang wars
that could explode across Los Angeles at any moment. Amongst the CRASH
officers are the 19 year veteran Officer Bob Hodges (Robert Duvall, The
Godfather) who treats all the gang members hard but fair yet approaches
every problem with a sense of diplomacy. Hodges is partnered with
Officer Danny McGavin (Sean Penn, Fast Times at Ridgemont High) a young
police officer who is highly capable but has a very short fuse and
proves to be his own worst enemy with his aggressive approach to police
work, much to the chagrin to Hodges. Hodges and McGavin must work
together to prevent an all out war on the streets of Los Angels between
the Bloods and the Crips.

Sean Penn made his mark with Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982) and
since then has gone from strength to strength with movies such as Bad
Boys (1983), The Falcon and the Snowman (1985) and At Close Range
(1986) which was met with acclaim from critics and audiences alike.
Improbably cast as an LAPD officer, Sean Penn turns in an excellent
performance as Danny McGavin which sees him continue to come of age.
Ironically, Sean Penn found himself on the wrong side of the law during
the filming of Colors when he was jailed for punching an extra who
photographed him and Robert Duvall without his permission.

The ever reliable Robert Duvall who never puts a foot wrong no matter
what role he plays or what movie he appears in. Duvall does a fine job
as veteran officer Bob Hodges who strives to keep the peace on the
streets of Los Angeles as well as keeping his young hotheaded partner
in line.

Mar√≠a Conchita Alonso (The Running Man), Don Cheadle (Traffic), Damon
Wayans (The Last Boy Scout), and Glenn Plummer (Speed) also appear in
small but effective roles in Colors and support Sean Penn and Robert
Duvall very well.

The late Dennis Hopper was a surprise choice as director given that in
his stellar career (Apocalypse Now, Blue Velvet, Speed) he has only
directed a handful of movies with Easy Rider (1969) being his only
successful movie as a director. Here in Colors he has done a quality
job bringing the movie to the big screen.

Colors was a surprisingly very good movie that is sorely underrated.
Thankfully critics did not dismiss this as rubbish and gave the movie
credit where it was due. It was also boosted by the star power of Sean
Penn and Robert Duvall under the direction of Dennis Hopper. It is
gritty and uncompromising, but Colors shines.

8/10.
