

I've just bought the DVD for "Parasite". The widescreen DVD is totally
superior to the old vhs rental copies, and the fun of this awesome 80s
prediction film only gets better with age. The debut of Demi Moore isn't
even nearly as interesting as the campy story of a scientist meeting a
bunch
of strange early eighties punk bikers (who have to be the stupidest gang
I've ever seen)and unleash a big wormy looking monster with teeth. The
story
is fun and scary at the same time. The world was going to come to and end
in
'92, well that was '83 thinking anyway. There's no end to the fury of
bad films you love being promoted to DVD. This one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
Every hardcore film buff worth his weight in celluloid has a certain
special favorite film which struck a peculiarly responsive chord in him
when it was first seen at a young, tender, impressionable age. The
fan's deep-seated affection for this picture defies a logical, rational
explanation, but holds strong throughout the years nonetheless.
"Parasite," an admittedly cheesy handy dandy low budget sci-fi/horror
rip-off of "ALIEN," "They Came from Within," and "Mad Max" which tells
the bleak futuristic story of a man with a dangerous scientifically
created killer slug growing in his belly, is that type of movie for me.

Sure, there are numerous concrete bits and pieces of "Parasite" which
can be singled out as key attractive attributes. Neither Charles Band's
inert direction nor the murky, uninspired script amount to anything
other than merely blah, although both do considerably add to the film's
overall bizarrely beguiling mediocre quality. Scrawny, swarthy,
long-faced and bug-eyed longtime unsung favorite Robert Glaudini
portrays the sweaty, frazzle-nerved protagonist with his customary
enthralling humorless solemnity. The adorable Cheryl "Rainbeaux" Smith,
looking like a scraggly, haggard, totally strung-out heroin junkie (all
dingy frizzy hair, indecipherable feral grumbling and sneering facial
expressions), does a welcome, albeit fleeting topless cameo as a
deranged "sickie." Al Fann contributes a wonderfully warm and engaging
performance as a nice guy diner proprietor. Luca Bercovici as a brutish
punk gang leader makes for a perfectly hateful villain. Cherie Currie,
the former lead singer of the seminal all-girl punk-rock group the
Runaways, isn't given much to do, but still catches the eye with her
sweetly pretty tall drink of dirty blonde water looks all the same. Mac
Ahlberg's grainy, washed-out cinematography somehow manages to be oddly
apropos. Richard Band's redundantly rattling score likewise weirdly
works.

The lead pipe firmly embedded in a guy's abdomen profusely leaking
blood gag is a genuine pip. The scene where the parasite attacks and
kills Vivian Blaine by dropping from the ceiling is a corker; the
moment when foul thing reduces Blaine to a dessicated, prune-faced husk
before gorily bursting out of her shriveled head really hits the
splattery spot. The sporadic use of strained, drawn-out and
overamplified slow motion provides a few solid belly laughs. The
lethargic pace slogs along at a hypnotically gradual clip. Watching the
eternally obnoxious Demi Moore in her first starring role have her lip
split open will forever remain a sadistically satisfying sight to
behold. Stan Winston's black, slimy, and truly revolting monster design
is deliciously disgusting. While all these cited specifics are credible
reasons for liking -- no, scratch that, seriously loving -- "Parasite,"
the film ultimately gets to me and bowls me over in a way that I simply
can't describe, but inevitably feel quite profoundly whenever I rewatch
it. I guess you can say that for me "Parasite" has that inexplicable,
yet undeniable and unmistakable mondo schlock flick zing.
<|_=00=_|>
oh yes! This great piece of cinema history was original shot in 3D.
Cinema photographer Mac Ahlberg did a absolutely wonderful job on it.
This was the first picture he and Charles Band worked on together. The
hole mood and felling of the film is very dark and sinister. Then I
watched this movie for the first time about 10 years ago, It really
gave me goosebumps. I own the Laserdisc edition of the film and as the
viewer you get the sort of fell that you are watching it in 3D. you
don't need the glasses to see it, so I would say that it is properly
not in true 3D. I know it is out on two DVD editions, one In true
glorious 3D, if you like these 1980 Horror films? you would what to get
a bag of popcorn and check this great film out. Injoy.
<|_=00=_|>
I typically dig the "post-apocalyptic" 80's films where apparently the
future will be over-run with mullet-sportin',
bad-music-listenin'-jerk-offs...but this one was pretty damn dull.

A scientist is infected with some sort of parasite. The parasite
escapes (of course) and causes some havoc. A young Demi Moore is in it.
End Of Story...

This wasn't the worst film I've ever seen, but it really has nothing
going for it either. Apparently it was shot in 3-D but I didn't see it
that way, so who cares. Semi-amusing for the bad acting and
"futuristic" ray-gun elements (including an old Lamborghini Countach
that sounds like a jet plane...), and for an early debut by Moore, but
nothing I would bother watching again. Supremely mediocre - 5/10
<|_=00=_|>

No, this is not a very good movie at all. However, I saw it when it was
first released in 1982 in 3D, and not once since then, and I still remember
some creepy scenes. The big gross-out in the movie -- when the dripping
parasite falls down on you from the ceiling in 3D!! -- had me squirming in
my seat in 1982.

I saw a number of films during the short-lived 3D revival of the early
'80's, and, believe me, there were very few kick-ass uses of the 3D effect
anywhere, but Parasite had one of the better ones. (Most of the other good
3D moments are in House of Wax with Vincent Price. Even Hitchcock couldn't
figure out what to do with the gimmick.)

By the way, in 1982 no one had ever heard of Demi Moore. Did we predict big
things for her after seeing her in this? Yeah, right.
<|_=00=_|>
Most people are only interested in this for the then unknown Demi
Moore's appearance. Seeing her in her tight shorts made this worth a
check.

The lack of cast was obvious. It's as if the producers were cutting
costs in the middle of scenes. Keep changing the camera direction and
maybe no one will notice the two cheap sets they kept using.

Robert Glaudini did an OK job with his role. Sometimes it seemed as if
he was sleepwalking though. Some rumors flew around at one point that
it was really David Carradine slumming, but nope.

Demi's acting hasn't changed much. She was a wide-eyed emotional type
back then too. But she looked good because she looked NORMAL. Not so
much enhancement if you get my drift. 

But what was her character doing there anyway? 

Lots of fire and threatening gestures. But the creature itself looked
pretty good. And it mostly took place during a sunny day, which was
kind of different.

But I agree with Chas. Balun. "Worth a look only if you see it in 3-D,
FORGET the videocassette."
<|_=00=_|>
Calling PARASITE a good movie is as arguable as whether or not Paris
Hilton has had a breast enlargement. It's no secret that I've always
had a soft spot for Charles Band's pre-Full Moon stuff. And even though
I've liked PARASITE ever since I saw it in my mid-teens, I think I'm
not being biased if I say that watching this movie is a worthwhile
effort and it's worthy of an honourable mention as an entry in B-movie
horror history set in a post-apocalyptic future. Well, "future", is
somewhat of a debatable topic here, since the movie is set in the year
1992 (while having been produced in 1982).

PARASITE is noticeable for quite some aspects. One of them being that
it was originally shot and released in theaters as a 3-D feature. While
3-Dimensional Photography was a popular phenomena in cinematic history
during the 50's (CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON, anyone?), its
popularity soon fizzled out by the decade's end. Fast forward to the
early 80's and we encounter director/producer Charles Band as one of
the people (in collaboration with 3-D specialist Randall Larsen) who
revived 3-D for a short-lived period and brought it back to theaters.
PARASITE was his contribution to the sudden but short wave of 3-D
features to emerge around that time (FRIDAY THE 13th PART 3, AMITYVILLE
3-D and JAWS 3-D being the most famous ones). One year later Charles
would make another 3-D feature, the sci-fi/adventure flick METALSTORM:
THE DESTRUCTION OF JARED-SYN (another worthwhile watch, if you ask me).
The use of the 3-D gimmick is integrated nicely with the rest of the
movie (e.g. during a fist-fight you can see a snake lashing out at the
camera; the titular parasite creature falling from the ceiling towards
the camera positioned on the ground). The two most memorable scenes
involving 3-D cinematography involve one killing (a guy gets impaled by
an iron pipe; when the camera slowly closes in on the hollow pipe,
blood starts dripping out of it) and the parasite-creature bursting out
of the head of actress Viviane Blaine (well, not her real head, of
course).

The story itself is rather simplistic and sometimes moves at a slow
pace, but there are a lot of enjoyable scenes to make up for that. A
scientist, played by tormented-looking Robert Glaudini, flees from an
oppressive paramilitary government, for which he created the
flesh-eating parasite. He takes with him two specimens. One he keeps in
a canister; the other creatureÂ… is growing inside his stomach. We don't
get to see much of the futuristic paramilitary government, though. The
only information we learn about it, is coming from the various
characters our scientist meets when he's stranded in an isolated desert
town (amongst them being a group of post-apocalyptic punks and a
scarred-by-radiation black bartender). But... there is one black-suited
(and laser-armed) villainous Government Agent (called "Wolf The
Merchant" and sadistically played by James Davidson) on the hunt for
him (it all leads to an enjoyable but short showdown near the end, of
course). Children of the 80's will sure love the Lamborghini Countach
Car he drives (complete with vertically opening doors). The acting even
is fair enough for this type of movie, and another reason to watch this
flick is that it stars no-one less than Demi Moore in her second motion
picture role ever (although, indeed, one can clearly tell that Miss
Moore was only just getting started with her acting career). She plays
an all-American post-apocalyptic cutie (that even makes and sells
lemonade), eventually teaming op with Robert Glaudini. A small role is
also granted to Cherie Currie (Former lead singer of the Runaways).

Another aspect of PARASITE worthwhile mentioning is the work of
cinematographer Mac Ahlberg. For one thing, while around the same time
(early 80's) his Italian colleagues were still obsessed with getting a
spontaneous erection by touching the zoom-button on their camera's,
Ahlberg prefers to use slow tracking shots every now and then while
equipping his camera with wide-angled lenses. His images bring a dusty
and desolate feeling to PARASITE. And then there's the contribution of
Stan Winston, who designed the creature and did the make-up effects.
While far from being his best work (hey, the man was just getting
started too), most of the effects are quite grotesque, slimy and
deliciously cheesy. I wouldn't want it any other way in a movie from
the early 80's.

I can understand that, to some, PARASITE might be considered a
post-apocalyptic snooze-fest (with bad acting, bad special effects and
whatever else they might find to nag about). But my love for it and the
joy I got out of (re-)watching this slightly offbeat and rather obscure
80's gem, encourages me to be generous in my final rating. I can say
one other thing too even: Once you've seen one of Charles Band's older
movies and liked it, there's a big chance you'll like all his other
stuff up until the early 90's too (whether he produced or directed it
doesn't even matter). Reportedly, there were plans to produce an
inevitable sequel back in the early 80's, simply titled PARASITE II. I
think it's safe to say that, sadly, we can abandon all hope of that
ever happening, in this year of writing, 2007.
<|_=00=_|>
Good times, you'll think. One of my friends lent the DVD to me and
expressed they didn't understand the hate towards the film. I've had my
chances to grab it, but the not-so-flattering comments left me to pass
it up, but after hearing it wasn't that bad (and I seem to share the
same thoughts about particular horror films with this friend). I dived
right in to it. As it stands it wasn't great, but nonetheless it was
entertainingly simple b-grade fun in a post-apocalyptic backdrop. 

Charles Brand in only his third feature paves the way for outrageously
ham-fisted splatter effects and make-up artist Stan Winston formulates
a nasty, icky looking slug-like parasite with a mean looking grin. The
criticism against his design is unfairÂ… sure it isn't first-rate but
with budget associated (as this is truly low-rent feature produced by
Embassy Pictures) it's an acceptable effort. Trying to be different
around that time was adding a new gimmick that it would be in 3D for
movie-going audiences. Sadly the DVD doesn't come with the 3D version.
Anyhow it didn't destroy the mood in any way. What can really hurt it
though, was that the script is slipshod and it never truly gets in any
sort of groove and comes up being a little too sparse and repetitive in
its actions. The atmosphere remains non-existent and tension doesn't
come by easily, but Brand (unintentional or not) engraves a grimy edge
to it all (with Mac Ahlberg's well-executed panning of the camera) and
throws about some graphic diversions. It's hard to forget Broadway
siren Vivian Blaine's encounter with a parasite and some slow-motion
passages are rather funny. Richard Band's shivering score feels like
it's on a loop, but seems to suit it.

There are earnest performances from the likes of Robert Glaudini, Luca
Bercovici, Al Fann, James Davidson, Cherrie Currie and a quick show-in
by Cheryl Smith. Demi Moore in her first on-screen role doesn't make
much of a dent, but it's far from awful.

In the end it's immensely forgettable, but lately watching these modern
(and sometimes leaden) Sci-fi original TV features is making me
appreciate this schlock far more.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know how I missed this one when it came out, because I watched
a LOT of VHS in the 80s. It's great. Characters fail to pull the
trigger and consequently get disarmed on about half a dozen occasions
when I would have just shot the muppet (there don't seem to be any
police around) but otherwise this is a well-made action/horror/sci-fi
thriller set in the outer dusty fringes of a future corporate dystopia
with ray guns.

The world-building is simple enough but the elements fit together
convincingly to frame a story in which an infected fugitive from a
world-threatening corporate conspiracy stumbles into sleazy
desert-dweller shenanigans.

No-one in it was ever heard from again apart from a feisty 20 year old
Demi Moore in her third ever film.
<|_=00=_|>
A scientist flees his lab with an ugly looking parasite just eager to
rip out of his stomach in the futuristic world of 1992! When a gang of
punks beat him up & steal a cannister containing another parasite, the
thing gets loose & immediately attach's itself onto the various gang
members before ripping out of them & growing bigger with each kill! &
unless a cure is found, the creatures will over run the earth. Hot on
his trail is a government agent in a hot car that will do anything
including killing to get both the parasites & scientist back. PARASITE
is well remembered for a lot of things, DEMI MOORE'S film debut, the
"first futuristic monster movie in 3-D & of course STAN WINSTON'S gooey
monster effects, however despite the fact that it's well acted &
directed than most & has good monster effects, PARASITE sadly had lot's
of potential but was either afraid to execute them or uncertain on how
to carry them out, most of the problem deals with the fact that the
film is way to chatty, with very few scenes involving the parasites,
the film is also to short & could have been made longer to tell it's
story better & the supposed futuristic look of the city is really just
a desert with only a neat looking zap gun as the only futuristic
product shown & the dialog is a little clunky, as is some of it's
idea's of what the future world is like, Coffee is almost extinct &
really expensive if you can find some (Pretty lame, the same thing
happened in another futuristic landscape in Charles Band's other film,
TRANCERS) All in all some decent effects but little else worth
recommending unless you're a die hard genre fan. LUCA BERCOVICI, the
lead gang member later directed the very first GHOULIES movie for
Charles Band three years later, in fact the score for that film is the
same one used in this film. After it's brief revival, Director Charles
Band abandon several planned 3-D projects following the poor box office
returns of his other 3-D project METAL STORM: THE DESTRUCTION OF JARED
SYN, one of which was PARASITE 2.

**1/2 stars
