
I think Jason fans boil down into two categories - the ones that watch
for actual horror and the ones that watch for unintentional humor and
shock value.

For the former group - this movie is worthless. The change of scenery
from the dark, foreboding woods of Camp Crystal Lake to a luxury cruise
liner completely ruins Jason's mystique. Jason is a killer made for
stalking around the ominous woods, not sauntering through hallways and
crosswalks. The kills are numerous and bloody... but don't compare to
some of the other installments. Overall, this movie is simply not very
scary.

For the latter group however, this movie is a gem. Packed full of
stereotypes and inexplicably idiotic characters, you can't help but
laugh as each one is picked off, Jason-style. With Asian
valedictorians, black athletes, and white party girls, the lack of
effort that the writers put into the film is clearly evident. It's
almost as if the writers got together and tried to figure out how to
fit the maximum amount of gratuitous violence and nudity into an hour
and a half movie... sheer brilliance.

For me? 8/10, one of the best comedies I've seen in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
Renowned film critic Leonard Maltin calls "Friday the 13th Part VIII:
Jason Takes Manhattan" the highlight of the series. Of course Maltin
rated virtually every other "Friday" film a dud, so that's not saying
much. In any event, he's wrong. But while this eighth installment is
comparatively inferior to most that preceded it, it's not as bad as
reputed outside Maltin circles.

"Jason Takes Manhattan" is one of those movies that's impossible to
love unconditionally. There are simply too many flaws, from ridiculous
plot elements (Jason can teleport???) and an uneven pace to a lack of
chills and incompatible attempts at humor. Indeed this entry represents
a bitter come-down after the absolutely stellar parts VI and VII.

In many ways, "Jason Takes Manhattan" doesn't feel like part of the
franchise. The Jason here isn't scary like we know he can be. His
deadly moves, be it the electric guitar impaler or decapitatingly
powerful right hook, seem contrived. Kane Hodder looks like a guy in a
Jason suit rather than the real deal. Director Rob Hedden fell into the
trap of gore for the sake of gore, but that's never been what "Friday
the 13th" is all about. It's all in the build-up, and sometimes, even
in low-budget '80s horror, less is more.

With all of that said, "Jason Takes Manhattan" isn't a total loss. The
mere sight of the rapidly decaying villain storming through the mean
streets of the Big Apple is worth at least four stars. Aside from the
change of scenery, the film offers a semi-compelling storyline or two.
And the masked one does have his frightening moments, smashing through
portholes and firing harpoons at horny teens. As usual, the climax --
this time a chase through the city and sewer -- is the highlight.

For better or for worse, "Jason Takes Manhattan" marks the last true
"Friday the 13th." This was Paramount's last stab (pun intended) at
things before selling the rights to New Line Cinema, which basically
destroyed the series with absurd ideas like Jason switching bodies and
rampaging through spaceships. Not great, but not godawful, this film
carries limited appeal outside of fanboy circles.
<|_=00=_|>
This is undoubtedly one of the worst film in the Friday the 13th
series. It lacks horror, story and qualities of any kind. The fact that
the film was released makes me sick. The film drags on a ferry with a
bundle of bad acting characters which are all slaughtered off in
terrible ways. Then when they finally reach Manhattan which is towards
the end may I add, the plot barley even involves Jason and is another
half an hour dragging on to complete the film. The film becomes even
more cheesy and is not scary what so ever and completely ruins the film
when Jason is seen by half of Manhattan chasing the two helpless
victims because nobody seems to be doing anything to help them. If you
think it could only get better, well you're wrong, as Jason goes to
Hell is just as bad!
<|_=00=_|>
My friend and I rented two movies, knowing that they were going to be
bad; Jason X, and this, Friday the 13th 8. We watched Jason X first,
and both agreed that it was pretty bad. And then we watched this.....
Oh god this was horrible. To start, the concept is stupid, Jason going
to Manhattan. Cities in New York are really over used in movies, no
matter how good the movie may be. In the flashback at the beginning, of
young Jason drowning, they COMPLETELY screwed up what his appearance is
supposed to be. Jason was supposed to look like a bald, deformed child.
In this, he has plenty of hair, and he looks like a normal little boy.
Another thing, I do believe Jason SWIMS to that cruise thats headed
towards Manhattan (feel free to correct me if I'm wrong). Everyone who
knows enough about Jason Voorhees and the Friday series should know
that he can't swim, and that he's afraid of water. And even if I am
wrong about that, why would they make him be on a boat, surrounded by
water? And one incredibly stupid is when Jason is chasing those two
people IN FRONT OF HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE, Jason scares those kids by
lifting up his mask. And finally, the final scene in the sewer, Jason's
hockey mask comes off, and you get to see his face. AND THEY SCREW THAT
UP TOO. Again, Jason is supposed to look deformed. In this, they make
him look like a zombie in those clich√©' zombie movies. I could go on
all day about how bad this movie is. Don't rent it. I seriously regret
renting it, even if you want to rent a bad movie to get a laugh about
it. This is a horrible movie, and I'm never watching it again. The end.
<|_=00=_|>
This film totally blew me away! After watching the rather dull and
boring Part 7, and having read that this was worse, my hopes weren't
too high. I couldn't have been more wrong! 

This film is, in my opinion, one of the best in the series. The acting
is good, Jason looks great, it has some funny moments, likable
characters, and the story also introduced a much-needed change: Jason
leaving Crystal Lake - although this can be seen as both good and bad,
I think it was a good idea just for this one movie. I hope he returns
of course.

The film's duration is also unusually long, I think it lasts for over
one and a half hour.

The only let-downs in this installment is an INCREDIBLY lame
throat-slashing scene (minor), and a weak ending (major). This is why I
give it 8 out of 10 and not the top-score.

Anyway, I hope you enjoy the movie as much as I did!
<|_=00=_|>
Every movie series has its ups and downs. This was definitely Friday
the 13th's "down" For some reason, this movie just wasn't that great.
Don't get me wrong, I liked it and all...just didn't have that thrill
that the others had. It shouldn't be called "Jason Takes Manhattan".
Should be something like "Jason takes a cruise" or something. Although
Kane Hodder played a great Jason, the character of Jason in this movie
was disproportional. His abilities and whatnot. Some of the characters
were the worst in this movie, the acting was pretty bad. I do like some
scenes however. But they didn't fully redeem this movie from the
horrific outcome. I give this a 5/10, this is probably my least
favorite of the series.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen my share of bad movies in my life, mostly from being such a
big fan of MST3K for so long. But this movie really takes the cake. It
is without a doubt the worst Friday the 13th, second only to Part V: A
New Beginning. Not even the presence of the (somewhat) well-known Peter
Mark Richman and the now-famous Jason himself, Kane Hodder, could make
this film make any sense.

The movie is flawed in many ways, one of the biggest of which involves
Rennie Wickham's constant visions of Jason Voorhees as a young child.
Often times she is touched by these visions and yet Jason is either
with her at the time or is near her, which makes someone want to ask
"What is going on in this girl's head?". The visions may have been
caused by deep psychological trauma suffered from the events of the
flashback seen towards the end where she almost drowns and encounters
Jason as a young child. But that flashback is a primary example of how
flawed this movie is in terms of the continuity of the series. It is
determined in Part 2 that Jason did, in fact, not drown as a child but
survived and spent the rest of his childhood in the woods, which
eventually leads to him being the fully grown undead serial killer the
fans have grown to love.

Another major flaw is the ending, in which Jason is drowned in toxic
waste. However, seconds before being doused with said chemicals, water
shoots out of his mouth almost for no apparent reason. It may have been
the intention of the writers to do this to remind the viewers that it
would be the second time Jason has drowned in his life, but I highly
doubt it. And then the end after Jason is killed, the audience is shown
the body of a young boy, which is no doubt Jason Voorhees. This ending
would indicate that Jason was always a boy but . . . something, maybe
being reborn with a body of swamp algae and barnacles that the toxic
waste disintegrated? Highly unlikely once again.

And of course, there is the flaw of Jason's apparent ability to change
places at the blink of an eye, in which he is seen in one place for one
moment and then seems to move with lightning fast stealth in front of
the characters almost like Freddy Krueger. How is it that someone in
reality who walks slower than Michael Myers can move so quickly off
camera, especially if he never seemed to be this quick in the previous
movies? The only time we see Jason take a shortcut to get to his
destination faster is towards the end when he's chasing Sean Robertson
and Rennie Wickham through the tunnels.

All of these flaws are the faults of the writers, all of whom may need
to reconsider their paths and/or hire their own editors.
<|_=00=_|>
This film doesn't have a very good reputation. It's the lowest ranking
Friday on the IMDb and Entertainment Weekly called it the 8th worst
sequel ever made. It's definitely not the best Friday but I quite
enjoyed it for its silliness. For the uninitiated, the first three
quarters of the film are set on a f**king cruise ship while only the
opening credits and last quarter are set in good old NY. It also has
easy to spot continuity errors (when Jason shoves a rock in a dude's
chest the shot after shows the wound by his heart). The film has its
ups, such as the catchy 80's theme song and a camp sense of humour. And
Kane Hodder is always fun to watch as the axe wielding killer. Despite
being one of the most tame in the francise, it has 2 cool kills. One is
where a chick gets smashed in the head with HER OWN F**KING GUITAR!!!!!
Another is where a dude gets his head PUNCHED THE F**K OFF in a
fistfight with Jason. Overall the film is silly yet enjoyable
<|_=00=_|>
The 8th Installment in the Friday the 13th see's Jason Making his way
to Manhattan via Boat,The boat is filled with young college students
who on a vacation as a part of school take a trip there. Despite all
the bad reviews This one's Quite good. Kane Hodder is superb as Jason
Voorhees my Favourite in the Friday the 13th series were Jason Goes to
Hell, Jason X,and part 4. If you see one I recommend you buy it. My
only criticism was not enough Manhattan but this is made up by the
appearance of Jason killing those stupid teenagers and the grumpy old
teacher who thankfully dies at the end. My friends seem to agree this
is a very good film I give it 10/10 great stuff!
<|_=00=_|>

Jason Takes Manhattan is one of my personal favorites in the Friday the
13th
franchise. It has a long victim list and very memorable deaths. If you
like
slasher films, it's hard to fathom you not liking this
movie.

Pros: Creative and graphic deaths. Jason has never been angrier. Jenson
Daggett's Rennie is the most beautiful and charismatic female lead in the
entire Friday the 13th franchise. The humorous elements added to the New
York scenes are great. The change in setting from boring old Crystal Lake
was long overdue.

Cons: The stupidest and laziest explanation for Jason coming back to life
in
the entire franchise. They don't bother to explain how Jason gets from
land
locked Crystal Lake to the ocean cruise liner Lazarus. The killing off of
Jason is very weird and not well explained.

Favorite kill: (spoiler) Jason stalks Eva to the dance floor of the ship
and
strangles her to death. Then tosses her to the floor with a sick
thud.
