
Raw American Poetry. Killer of Sheep takes the immediacy of Italian
neo-Realist cinema and shapes it into a dreamy, beautiful montage of
everyday life in Watts, Los Angeles, California, in the 1970s.

The revelations, in the year 2000, are surprising: black kids in the
middle of the Ghetto acted up and goofed off exactly the same as white
kids in small towns across the midwest...but not like black OR white
kids today. The folks in this movie have an innocence about them that
survives, along with their dignity, regardless of the social decay
around them. You are left with a simple fact: these are still country
people, who happen to be living in a city.

For anyone, like me, who grew up in the 1970s, the movie aches with a
sense of a lost era, when being a kid meant building forts out of
left-over construction materials, throwing dirt clods, and laying down
big fat skidmarks with your bicycle.

And all this is just the subplot. The main storyline, of a
slaughterhouse-working father trying to run a stable family in the
midst of urban decay, is simple, understated, and powerful. The musical
sequences inside the slaughterhouse rival Kubrick's ability to
juxtapose music and image in a manner that creates infinite levels of
meaning and irony. You can only sit with your mouth half agape and
think, 'aaah.'

Like La Jetee, this is a movie that will allow you to see life anew,
with children's eyes. Never pass up a chance to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Around the seventies, when films like Annie Hall, Star Wars, Close
Encounters of the Third Kind, and Saturday Night Fever ruled the age,
Charles Burnett silently crafted Killer of Sheep, his thesis film for
UCLA. Thirty years it has eluded usthat is, until now. The result,
although aging those thirty-years, is a masterpiece; an authentic and
one of a kind piece of raw American poetry that simply and silently
observes life in the Watts ghetto of Los Angeles.

An unshakable and insightful study of citizens living right above the
poverty level, Killer of Sheep is both open-ended and observatory. The
magnificent fly-on-the-wall observes the life of a slaughterhouse
worker, Stan (Henry Gayle Sanders), who grapples daily with poverty,
misbehaving children, and the allure of violence. Stan is a simple guy,
diligent, smart, and fatigued. He has a family including two kids, both
entirely the opposite of the other. Stan's daughter (Angela Burnett,
the director's childone of the most preternaturally talented
performers I have ever seen) is the playful and learning type, while
the otherhis sonis never home, discourteous, and always getting
himself into trouble. The characterization in Killer of Sheep is both
extraordinarily untouched, but it is meticulously observed and felt;
every single characteralthough not all are importanthas an underlying
purpose and reason for being where they are.

The camera work in Killer of Sheep, much like the film itself, is
perfect, like if one could be observing the town through his/her DV
camcorder. Shooting in 16 millimeter and operating it himself,
Burnett's camera observes everything, and is seemingly everywhere.
Everything is important too, because every close-up and tracking shot
only brings us closer to the undistinguished characters themselves; the
more the camera observes, the more one feels closer to them.

Burnett shot Killer of Sheep over a series of weekends on a shoestring
budget of just under $20,000, using friends and relatives as actors.
This needn't be a reason to demean the film; if anything, one must take
it as a sheer pleasure: the acting of his family members essentially
makes the film beautiful sans outside reason, making it truly
fathomable. Yet again, Burnett's camera simply observes; much like the
Italian neo-realism age, Killer of Sheep's milieu speaks for itselfone
could even call it American neo-realism.

At its core, Killer of Sheep is masterfully comprised of evident
economic denial, hidden desire, and pure living; in other words:
untainted life. There are many scenes in Killer of Sheep that
demonstrate this; the most memorable demonstrating the cruelty of
Stan's son towards his sister: while Stan drinks coffee at his table
with a neighbor, his son aggressively asks his daughter where his
bee-bee gun is. The daughter, wearing an unforgettable dog mask,
shrugs. The response from the brother is, of course, hurting her. Stan
gets up and starts chasing the son; he's already out the door.

In 1990, Burnett's opus magnum was declared a national treasure by
Congress. 17 years later, it has finally gotten a spot on the big
screen, a DVD release date also due for later in the year. Easily one
of the finest observational films ever made, Killer of Sheep more than
lives up to its official designation as a national treasure: it lives
up to life itself.
<|_=00=_|>

Somewhat reactionary to the black exploitation films that usually define the
Black cinema experience in the 70's, Killer of Sheep presents a realistic
portrait of a Black urban L.A. community.  Burnett's method of telling a
story, using the camera in the most unobtrusive manner, enlivens the film
and draws the viewer into a world not frequently seen on film.  Stan, the
depressed insomniac lower middle-class worker struggles to provide for his
family, love his wife and maintain responsibility to his community while
haunted by the historical futility and impotence of the African American
male.  In Killer of Sheep, Burnett aptly demonstrates his knowledge of the
cinema aesthetic and his proficiency with the camera while telling a most
compelling story about the Black experience in America.
<|_=00=_|>
Before writing this review, I read the four comments that were already
posted- by tvspace, zumlinz, seabiscuit, and bartman. Their ratings
ranged from two stars to ten stars, and one reviewer here (in addition
to Manhola Dargis of the NY Times) hailed it as a masterpiece.

After viewing the film this afternoon at the IFC Center in Greenwich
Village, I have to say that all four reviewers have valid points about
the film.

It certainly has an "amateur" feel to it, including the acting of some
of the smaller roles, as one of the previous reviewers pointed out. But
I found much that was beautiful about it, and saw a sort of perfection
in its lack of polish- polish and formula that is so commonplace today
in not only big studio pictures, but many independent films as well.

While certainly not about "nothing," it does lack a conventional
narrative, as was pointed out previously as well. But it is this
absence of an obvious agenda (other than to portray typical, everyday
life in Watts from the point of view of one family) that allows the
film to work so well as a loosely structured, poetic slice of life. It
is an amazing mood piece, and it made me feel quite sad. Yet there was
humor, warmth, and hope scattered throughout the generally melancholy
film.

I think this is the kind of film that will effect people differently,
as is already evident from the first four reviews. If you don't catch
this film in the theater this time around, it will be available on DVD
in the fall and is well worth watching. Nowadays it seems to be in
vogue with hotshot filmmakers to recreate the specific,unique look of
older films, using all sorts of advanced technology to turn back the
clock. Here's a chance to see the real deal-something raw and authentic
from a talented filmmaker as he emerged.
<|_=00=_|>
For the life of me I wonder what prompted the people at the London Film
Festival to screen this film at the NFT.

Filmed sometime in the 70s in Black & White it's the story of a family
told over maybe two days and is strangely compelling. 

There's no typically Afro-American Urban film scenes just a story about
a family and what do. Children play games, dad goes to work and mum
looks after the home, an everyday story of life. But don't let that put
you off because the film really draws you in somehow. It features a
great soundtrack of tunes taken from the 30/40s and some strange (to my
mind) editing. 

Do try and see this film if it's at a Festival near you because you too
will be drawn into it as I was.

Weirdly Wonderful Film.

Black Narcissus 

http://www.imdb.com/mymovies/list?l=14198203
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since moving to L.A. in the mid-80's, I've heard of KILLER OF
SHEEP in almost hushed tones - as if it were some well-kept local
secret that non-natives couldn't be let in on. And, the film HAS been
elusive. I can only remember a couple of screenings having occurred in
the ensuing two decades. Up until now, I didn't know that it COULDN'T
be commercially released because of the music rights. Ironically, the
music rights cost the current distributor (Milestone) 15 TIMES what the
original budget of the entire film was ($10,000)! The money is well
spent as the Blues infused tracks add dimension to the piece. 

The small band of folks who championed the film over the years
obviously were enthusiastic. So much so, that KILLER OF SHEEP entered
the National Film Registry (for Preservation) in 1990 along with the
likes of IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE, DODSWORTH, RAGING BULL, TREASURE OF THE
SIERRA MADRE etc. - Incredibly heady company. 

All this for a Student thesis film? It seems unfair in a way to put so
much on such a small scale project. It simply, but poetically, depicts
life in a black neighborhood around South Central L.A. in the mid-70's.
What little plotting there is revolves around the daily struggle of a
family where the father works in a meat factory - literally, a killer
of sheep. Take what you wish for the symbolism there. 

There are amateur aspects - actors looking into the lens, awkward
edits, mediocre sound, unsteady camera moves etc. Hopefully, most
audiences can look beyond the limitations and take the film on its own
level. Another interesting angle is to examine the fact that it came at
around the end of the 70's Blaxploitation cycle. Of course, there are
no heroes or even anti-heroes here. Just the simple ordinary folks who
really lived at the time.
<|_=00=_|>
You have to get past the strangely composed shots, which make it look
like there was only enough budget for one take. You have to get past
the occasionally garbled and screechy sound. And most importantly, you
have to get past the idea that a movie has to have a plot. This one
doesn't, but it wouldn't be the same if it had one.

The thing that struck me the most is how every character must, in some
way, fend for themselves. Stan, as the head of the household, has an
emotionally draining, low-paying job in a slaughterhouse. He knows that
help isn't on the way for his family, especially from the city of Los
Angeles, which seems more interested in tearing down the ghetto than
doing anything to help its residents prosper. (By the way, there are
only two white people in the whole movie. One of them works with Stan
in the slaughterhouse, and the other is a burly, street-tough woman who
manages the local liquor store. This subtly reinforces the reality that
everyone here is on their own.)

Stan's wife has to fend for herself emotionally. She needs comfort,
romance, even passion. But his job is so bleak, low-paying, and
futureless that he doesn't have anything to give her when he gets home.
And the two children are too young to understand what's going on.

The kids in the neighborhood don't have toys to play with or activities
to go to. They have to fend for themselves when it comes to keeping
themselves amused. So they make do with playing around demolition
sites, see who can stand on their head the longest, and throwing rocks
at trains, or each other. Education is never mentioned at any time - in
fact, it's entirely possible that some of the kids don't go to school
at all.

Stan's friends, as well as everyone else in the neighborhood, have to
do whatever they can to make ends meet. Sometimes it's legal, like
buying a secondhand motor to try and get their car working again.
Sometimes it's illegal, like trying to cash a bogus check at the liquor
store, or burglarizing those who are less able to defend themselves.

There are so many other small but profound commentaries throughout the
movie that it would be hard to list them all. And the last two scenes
(I guess you could call it an ending, although there really isn't
one)are incredibly powerful and moving when you add them to everything
else you've seen.

This is truly a one-of-a-kind movie. There was nothing like it before,
and there hasn't been anything like it since. I'm glad I was lucky
enough to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, can be cold. Young, soon too old. What a wonderful song and film
as this song.

This is the picture here; a life of drab, interminable drudgery, hard
work when it does come by and small pleasure, perhaps only the slow
dance before the window. They will tell you the attempt here is for
neorealism, and you will maybe note how the palette and commentary has
been later studied by other prominent directors, black or not. Not so
here. Our gain is that it's by a filmmaker who still hasn't learned too
much about the craft to lose the innocence of looking and the
commitment to keep doing so. Who doesn't have a hell of a lot to say
and just wants to film. And who maybe knows this life and neighborhood
intimately enough to take us to where it's ordinary and real.

All things considered, it's an evocative portrait of life at the
outskirts. It's raw and affective in ways that Malick had to train
himself over the years to accomplish. And that Jarmusch and Gordon
Green (George Washington) only mechancically repeated in later years.
It is about nothing in the sense that every life is, there is no story
outside what we choose to remember as one.

So this earth can be cold. But maybe not so bitter after all. It's a
moment of happiness that new life is finally on the way. Are they
crazy? Who'd be happy to bring a child into this? Things don't work
when they should, it's all an uphill struggle to even drive to the
racetrack. Love grows distant and sullen. But the kids are playing
everywhere you can find them. Young, soon too old. But happy that each
one gets to go through it this once?
<|_=00=_|>
This film was written,directed,produced,etc. by a UCLA film student in
1973, but only given a brief run in theaters four years later, after
which was plunked back in the can to sit on a shelf for nearly 30
years. I just had the opportunity to see this grainy, kitchen sink
black & white film at one of my local art cinemas. I admired the visual
look of this film (very do it yourself), and admired the concept of an
ensemble piece ('tho without the use of Altmanesque over lapping). I
admit, I found some of the dialouge unintelligible (due to the poor
recording of the soundtrack---I'm guessing who ever operated the
microphone picking up dialouge didn't have much experience in this
field). The use of music in this film was well implemented (which
ranges from classical to soul to blues and beyond). 'Killer Of Sheep'
is a flawed, but none the less, watchable film that should be viewed by
any & all serious film fanatics (and should also be screened during
Black History Month, as a timeline of creative black cinema).
<|_=00=_|>
It's not about blacks, it's not even necessarily about the poor, it's a
piece of humanity through the eyes of a sensitive filmmaker, and as
such is a subtle and delicate thing. Unfortunately, all the 'hooplah'
(Library of Congress, student film, etc.) about the movie I think
basically buries the beauty of this movie for many viewers.

The beauty of this movie are in the subtle details that Burnett
catches. The film has been described as being 'documentary' in style,
but to call it that misses the deeper beauty of many of the scenes. To
call it a 'slice of life' may be a bit more accurate, but even that
doesn't sit well with me- it implies a sort of haphazard, random,
cutesy story meant to seem ordinary but 'mean' more, or end up wrapping
itself around a common Hollywood plot and message (love conquers all,
try hard and don't give up, etc.) This movie is more like a wonderfully
telling and sensitive and subtle piece of poetry. Without a significant
plot line, all there may be are details, but the devil is in the
details. Details captured from real life, not clumsy metaphors to
assigned like a color-by-number picture.

I don't like giving ratings, especially too soon after I see a movie.
But I'll rate it a 9 for now, and perhaps revise later (though I doubt
I will ever lower my score.) A movie like this can be challenging to
watch. There's no parts to piece together or 'figure out', there are no
big character arcs or big dramatic moments. I'll leave it to each own's
opinion whether this is a good or bad thing, but all the hyperbole
aside, in my opinion this is a great movie.
