
I almost never agree with Trekkies! They usually pan "Star Trek III"
and label it a disappointing follow-up to the classic "Wrath of Khan."
But I just don't see anything wrong here. The Klingons are delightfully
over-the-top villains, the effects and spaceship models are great
(arguably the best in the series), and the theft of the Enterprise is a
wonderful sequence loaded with humor and tension. DeForest Kelley gets
some great material as the "possessed" McCoy, and Shatner's performance
- slightly more understated than in the last film - is again rock
solid.

So what's the problem? I suppose this movie has difficulties standing
on its own; it relies heavily on knowledge of "Khan." But, such issues
inevitably crop up when you're dealing with a long-running series of
interconnected movies, and they don't matter much in terms of raw
entertainment value. Some fans complain that nothing really happens in
this film - it's just about getting Spock back and nothing else - but
the death of David and the destruction of the Enterprise load it up
with more than enough dramatic punch for me. 

And, can you possibly imagine Picard stealing the Enterprise to go on a
rescue mission? I can't. This movie's storyline captures exactly what
makes the original crew so warm, funny, and rebellious...and so it's a
good Trek movie, despite what the fans will tell you.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Poor Judith Anderson the first lady of Film Noir. Want to see her
before? Watch THE STRANGE LOVE OF MARTHA IVERS and other great
performances. Young actors, this could happen to you if you do not save
your money. I bet England called and wanted her title back. Do you
blame them? How would you like to be enveloped in smoke bombs,
surrounded by bald people in bathrobes with big triangles on them? Hey,
seriously, I felt really bad for her. A great actress and this is what
people under 40 will remember her for. If you like bald people milling
about doing some kind of hokey pokey smoke bomb ceremony for twenty
minutes; this is the movie for you. Before this, Kirk brought the parts
to Vulcan for reassembly, his Katra or some mumbo jumbo, hey I was
asleep at this point, who gives a crap? I love the rescue of Bones, the
worst shot action scene in film history. The big guy begins his roll
before Sulu throws him, now that is strength, must be his Katra. In the
same scene, the big guy is shown blocking the wall ram with his arm,
Nimoy was not exactly Michael Bay. 

If you ran the space station and Kirk, after you turned him down for
using the Enterprise, says I will hire a ship, I'll get a ship! Would
you raise the security around the Enterprise say a wee bit? Yes, you
can just walk right in, he never would have anticipated that, great
writing. See, they call it a space station because they have more than
one ship there. They would not just send Excelsior, maybe like six
other ships? The Genesis planet ages in wonderful consanguinity with
the script, slow until the Enterprise is blown up then it goes like
lightning. I love when humanists do ethics, see axioms have
consequences; the needs of the one outweigh the needs of the many whose
axiom was that, let me think, I know; Adolph Hitler. Yes, that was the
rule he lived by, how'd that work out? It is the exact opposite of
Spock's axiom in the WRATH OF KHAN. See, put down the comic books and
think about what words mean when you say them. Why are we living on the
Klingon ship? Why do I know all about Kruge's, cabbage head, little
dogie? Why would I give a poop? 

The film has to be seen to be believed; you will see why Kirstie Alley
declined to reprise her role as Saavik, do you blame her? Would you
like to do some kinky, creepy scene with her fingers and Spock: the
disassembled, kiddie years? Talk about making your skin crawl scene,
please we are eating out here. GROSS OUT. The film is surpassed only by
STAR TREK 5: God Wants Out Of The Picture as the absolute nadir of the
original cast movies. The acting is terrible; it is boring, stupid and
as believable as your flying through the air. Some scenes evoked
laughter when I saw this with 500 other people. The kinky finger mating
scene had non stop giggling by the audience all through it. Kirstie,
you made the right decision, you saved yourself eternal humiliation.
Please, get a room; the movie is bad even for Star Trek and that is
saying something.
<|_=00=_|>
So, I'm not generally one of those people who are really critical of
the Star Trek movies just because they don't 'have the intelligent
messages' of the show. I get that they need to appeal to a broader
audience, and sometimes I think that works better, because I've liked
most of the Star Trek movies to some degree and then there are some
that I can just respect but don't really care for them.

Search for Spock, is more like that, except, I really have very little
respect for it. Movies like Generations, or even Nemesis, have lots of
flaws whether it's in the acting, the story, the characters or
whatever, but those always have some entertaining sequences, but Search
for Spock really doesn't have anything like that. It is just so boring.

I mean, nowadays, the Kirk era style just feels a little corny, so you
kind of have to judge it based on the time. Wrath of Khan, for example,
has corny moments, but the story, atmosphere, acting, and writing all
elevated it past the cheesy moments, so that the audience was willing
to ignore the weak links. The problem with Search for Spock is that it
doesn't give us anything. We get the slowest build-up ever, as we spend
at least an hour just to get Enterprise to the Genesis Planet, and
let's not mention this is essentially a glorified reset button for
Wrath of Khan.

Spock is resurrected by a deus ex machine plot device introduced for
the movie (the Vulcan Khat'ra), David Marcus dies, Carol Marcus
disappears, never to be mentioned again, the Genesis planet is
destroyed, soyeah, you take one of the best Star Trek movies and
nullify it. Also, we have one of the lamest villains in Kruge, who tops
even William Shatner on overacting. The only positive to him is that he
is so cheesy he makes his scenes marginally entertaining, but they
still aren't actually good scenes. He and Kirk get into a really weak,
fake-looking brawl, which is the final battle of the two action scenes
in the movie (the first being the 5-second space battle between the
Enterprise and the bird of prey). I'm not saying action is the most
important part of a Star Trek movie, or even necessarily an important
part, but when a movie has nothing else going for it, an entertaining
action scene can go a long way. This is by no means the worst Star Trek
movie, but this one has so little going for it that it's hard to see
why it would even be considered one of the better ones.
<|_=00=_|>

Well the plot is a little thin here, little more than the rescue and
recovery of Spock, interrupted along the way by some passing nutty Klingons.
 There seems to be nowhere near as much substance to this film unlike its
wonderful predecessor, however again the intelligent dialogue from the
second Trek film is also present here and it was wonderful to see the return
of another character from the original series played by the same actor, this
time Mark Lenard as Spock's father and Vulcan Ambassador
Sarek.

The special effects are turned out well even though the seemingly endless
Genesis planet gradually disintegrating scenes started to grate after a
while.  One oddity that just did not work however was the change of actress
for Vulcan Lt Saavik whilst the Commander of the Klingon vessel was just a
plain loon.

There where some great comedy moments, McCoy in the bar trying to perform a
Vulcan neck pinch, the whole USS Excelsior debacle with one of the best
stutters and stops I have ever seen and Kirk's wonderful riposte to the
Klingon Commander from the Genesis planet after the Enterprise has been
destroyed along with most of the Klingon crew  cest la
vie!

All right but not one of the best, still watchable none the
less.

<|_=00=_|>
This film is the third of the franchise and addresses the theme of
death and resurrection of Spock, something that I honestly could not
understand immediately but, being an alien, did not make any knot in my
head when I've got it. The script is not bad but it gets even better
from the moment the Klingons, a welcome element of action, are added to
the story. However, being a film that continues the story of "The Wrath
of Khan," it is natural that both are similar at several points. On a
technical level, they're almost identical, the sets and costumes are
the same and the special effects are still what we could expect at this
period. And as for the actors, this film is almost entirely of Leonard
Nimoy and DeForest Kelley, actors that the script privileged and that
they had the capacity to shine. In the end, we get a film that honors
its predecessor without, however, being able to match it.
<|_=00=_|>
The needs of the franchise outweigh the needs of the movie. It's
certainly logical. I just wish the movie left me more to think about.

Shortly after the battle that resolved "Star Trek II," we join a
largely vacated U. S. S. Enterprise heading home. Still mourning his
friend and comrade Mr. Spock, Admiral Kirk (William Shatner) discovers
Spock's sealed-off cabin occupied by "Bones" McCoy (DeForest Kelley),
himself occupied by Spock's "katra," or spirit.

"Climb the steps of Mount Seleya," a tranced-out McCoy tells Kirk,
kicking off a new journey for the Enterprise.

No doubt the "Star Trek" production team, buoyed by the great success
of their prior film but now stuck with a gaping, pointy- eared hole,
saw its repair as job one. Bringing Spock back to life thus becomes the
focus of the film, and the only thing that it gets right.

A series of decent if lully setpieces that awkwardly cohere into a
larger story, "Star Trek III" feels stuck in orbit from first to last.
The funeral tone of mourning Spock, established in the opening moments,
hangs over the rest of the film. Kirk broods about the "emptiness" he
feels, about abandoning "the noblest part of myself" and "our dearest
blood."

Having spent decades unsuccessfully separating himself from his
best-remembered part, director Leonard Nimoy could have told his old
comrades it was no use. You don't just say goodbye to Spock and expect
him to stay dead. Nimoy lets his film linger over the loss of our
favorite Vulcan, at the expense of the tension and suspense that
animated "Star Trek II."

What Nimoy does do well is engage the other actors, at least the ones
he worked with in the original series. Kelley is delightful as the
keeper of the katra, struggling to reconcile his new persona as a
logical Vulcan while retaining Bones' short temper. "It's his revenge
for all those arguments he lost," McCoy fumes when Kirk explains what
has happened to him.

What did happen, anyway? The introduction of a mystical element to the
Vulcan story, that Spock has what Kirk calls "an immortal soul," is at
odds with "Star Trek's" materialistic approach to life, especially as
it culminates in a religious ceremony conducted in English with a lot
of "thou" and "thee." I can't say I bought it, but then again, it
wasn't like I felt expected to. It's something to justify the reason we
are here, getting Spock back.

The rest of the film punctuates this by giving us little else to watch.
There's some business about renegade Klingons trying to steal the
secret of the prior film's Genesis project from the Federation, but the
action here is strictly by the numbers. Christopher Lloyd spits every
line as the head Klingon, pushing to dominate every scene he's in. Long
sections of narrative deal with the collapse of the Genesis planet and
its impact on a young Vulcan who may be Spock, a plot device which is
neither believable nor compelling.

What "Star Trek III" needed was something to pull us from the Spock
story, a crisis/adventure to engage us long enough for Spock's return
to take us by surprise, the same way his demise did in "Star Trek II."
Unfortunately, "Star Trek III" doesn't find that hook, and the film
becomes a minor slog with some funny character-driven moments, pleasant
for fans but eminently forgettable.
<|_=00=_|>
During the three-season run of Star Trek: The Original Series, First
Officer Spock (Leonard Nimoy) became one of the most intriguing
characters on television. Viewers embraced the Vulcan's logical mind
and Spock become the perfect antithesis to the emotionally-charged
Captain Kirk (William Shatner). After almost two decades of being
associated exclusively with the Spock character, Nimoy decided he
wanted a break to try to avoid being typecast, hence Spock's emotional
death scene at the end of Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan. Nimoy's "I
Am Not Spock" days ended quite quickly, however, when he realized that
either the typecasting had already occurred, or he missed reprising his
most famous character.

As a result (and partially because the Star Trek writers had left an
opening for Nimoy/Spock to return), the quest to re-integrate Spock
into the Star Trek cannon comprises most of Star Trek II: The Search
For Spock. Though the entire film is not as scriptually solid as the
"Khan" effort (as Kirk's "family feud" with the Klingons is not fully
resolved until later in the movie series), it makes up for it with the
emotional punch of Spock's journey back to reality. The final scene,
revolving around the tense and delicate Vulcan ritual that must be
undertaken to revive Spock, will have emotional fans reaching for the
tissue box. The final words will have you weeping (whether from joy or
sadness I will not disclose).

The major problem with this film is that it almost seems to be "too
soon" after "Wrath of Khan" (perhaps this problem was a bit remedied by
original theater viewings). I watched them practically back to back,
and it just seemed like there should have been some other story in
between parts II & III. A way for the crew to truly mourn Spock before
he (quickly) returns.

Overall, the third installment in the Star Trek movie cannon is an
emotional journey that, while perhaps lacking an air-tight script, is
still a watchable movie due to the emotional struggle of favorite
character Spock and those around him. 3.5 stars would be my exact
rating. If you just finished the "Khan" movie, you will receive the
emotional "finale" of that storyline in this film. The ending will also
leave you wondering how the U.S.S. Enterprise crew will ever be able to
"seek out new life and new civilizations" again.
<|_=00=_|>
It feels a little strange to say, but this film may be worse than the
first Star Trek movie. At least the first film was creative and
slightly intriguing, even if it did not translate to the big screen.
But The Search for Spock contained little mystery, a prolonged and
obvious outcome, and continued the same flawed subplot (and basically
the only negative aspect of) The Wrath of Khan, that being the Genesis
Project. This unlikely Federation project was at least a bit on the
afterburner in the previous film, compared to Khan's quest for
vengeance against Kirk. Now it's the main story as it gives Spock his
rebirth, but this time there is hardly any thought to the moral dilemma
of the project.

There are some positives in this film; I don't think it is a disaster.
It was nice to see the rest of the crew given a little more of the
spotlight, such as Uhura putting the young Federation member in his
place (then she disappearing for basically the rest of the film) and
Sulu taking out the Federation MP's (his hand-to-hand combat is much
more believable than Kirk's; more on that in a bit). Also, while it is
a little strange to see Christopher Lloyd as a Klingon, he made the
character sinister and interesting.

But my main criticism with Search for Spock is that we always know
Spock will return, and the child version of the character is found
early on. The film could have been so much better if the Spock
regeneration was settled during the first or second act, then we can
move on to a new Star Trek adventure with the crew back together. There
is a sense with this film, especially since it was directed by Leonard
Nimoy himself, that Kirk got his movie with Wrath of Khan, now let's
explore more about Spock's nature throughout this entire film. But it
all just comes across as a lackluster, immediate follow-up to the
previous installment. With Wrath of Khan, it felt like a reboot to the
franchise, not a sequel. But this film exemplified exactly what most of
us don't like about sequels: trying to wrap- up loose ends from the
last film and taking it up a notch from there, but failing.

Final thoughts: Please, no more hand-to-hand combat from Kirk, it
doesn't work anymore. The character plays so much better as a captain
outwitting the enemy, as he does with the destruction of the
Enterprise. And are you serious with that Ponfar scene? I know Kirstie
Alley said she didn't want to be typecast, so she chose not to continue
her role as Saavik, but I have to think that this scene with
post-adolescent Spock had to really push her over the edge. Plus, do we
really think that these characters who are pushing 50 could walk up all
of those steps on Vulcan carrying a comatose Spock? Scotty must have
been freaking out. And what is Bones regular "poison"? Gotta be Romulan
ale.

*My film rating follows the soccer player rating measure of 6 as a
baseline: you did what was expected of you. This film is a 4 because it
fails to intrigue and shows essentially nothing new. It is simply a
sequel trying to continue the excitement of its predecessor, but
utterly failing.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a more recent Star Trek fan and have recently moved onto the
movies. I have to say, this one was a bigger disappointment to Star
Trek I for me. 

After the how brilliant 'The Wrath of Khan' was, I was hoping Star Trek
III would be a worthy follow up, but even the title seemed a little
unimaginative now I look at it. 

The story takes forever building up, has some great moments during
that, for example, the Klingons are brilliant but it just lacks some
imagination much like how 'Star Trek: The Motion Picture' often felt. 

It's like the franchise took one huge step forward, Star Trek II was an
exciting film but still about morality at the end of the day, but this
film offers none of it.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the TV series. I was a child when it ran in the Sixties. Then,
as I grew up in the Seventies, they invented UHF stations that ran
"old" series in syndication, and Star Trek was on every day. So I was
delighted that, in the Eighties, as a young adult, it came back, via
the movie screen. Some of the space effects in this film were
excellent, even viewed now. Some, like the planetscapes the characters
trod and fought through, not so much. In the inevitable comparisons,
this film is not as good as II and IV. But, as these three films were a
serial in a way, the events of all three combined taking place in the
space of a few weeks, one must see it with the others. Don't get me
wrong, it isn't bad, but it may suffer a bit by comparison. (I've never
seen any of the other Star Trek series or the movies based on them, so
I cannot compare this to them)
