

My dad had a strange habit of taping all 48 hours of the free HBO

weekends when I was a kid.  Fortunately for me, that's how I found

some of my favorite films!  When I'd stay home from school with

the flu, I'd sift through the tapes and watch whatever caught my

eye.  After I saw this one, it became my regular "sick day" film and

one I'd watch any time I was just hanging around on a rainy

afternoon.  I remember I loved it because it was about kids doing

something about their problems and making the situation better -

heck, they saved the world!  That's the kind of film every kid
likes!
<|_=00=_|>
If you don't love cheesy scifi....are too cool and all, don't bother. I
mean it. But if magic alien spheres, weird roller sports, tiretown, and
eco warriors make you happy, than this is your movie. It has a subtle
beauty. 80s madness at its best. From the misunderstood tribal kid who
calls birds to the cool mascot hearing impaired kid, its just, well its
just....just see it. The hair and music alone are worth it, even if you
do not realize how awesome the story is. Check out the cut offs. The
only conceivable reason this movie is not in any hall of fame is
because there is no award for Best Cheesy Sci Fi, or ...people just
suck. Givin that, I am sure there IS an award somewhere. So do not deny
yourself the futuristic bad news bears on skates. Why, afraid you may
pull out those old hot pink wheeled roller-skates you know you have?
Afraid you may try to save the world in a spray painted tank top? I
know I am.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a riot. It's badness is epic. It is hard to know where to
begin in terms of describing the experience of Solarbabies, but one
could start by saying that a central episode involves a chase scene of
children dramatically escaping from a futuristic special-forces police
force by ROLLER SKATING through the DESERT. I am not making this up.

The completely random plot and incredulously goofy bonding/friendship
scenes between the child-prisoners and their glowing-ball alien friend
could only have been the product of coked-out brainstorming sessions of
Hollywood types in the 80s.

Are children lovable prisoners of a Nazi-Fetish, post-apocalyptic
corporation/government agency that inexplicably decides to profit by
running a child-labor camp in the desert? Check. Are the children also
forced to play an arena sport involving roller skates? Check. Does a
glowing alien ball appear randomly and befriend the children, with no
apparent connection to anything else in the film? Check. Do the
children breakdance with the glowing alien ball-friend? Check. Does the
glowing alien ball require the children to escape the prison and go on
a quest? Yep. Do the children "escape" simply by roller-skating away
from the "prison" (through a desert)? Um, yes. Does the glowing alien
ball-friend require the children to join hands in a ritualized new-age
circle of friendship/love in order to achieve its full glowing alien
ball powers? You betcha.

If this movie were any better, I would give it one star. But it charges
so far past the normal constraints of the badness boundaries that it
comes out on the other side and emerges as something that is actually
pretty entertaining and fairly compelling. The bar starts out low, but
the filmmakers just keep on lowering it, going way past the zero point,
and actually discovering new ways to make a bad movie worse. It is like
art in reverse.
<|_=00=_|>
"Solarbabies" apparently wasn't given much of a theatrical release by
MGM. After seeing the movie, I can understand why they apparently
decided to cut their losses. To be fair, the outdoor locations are
pretty eye-catching (the movie was shot in Spain), and the sets look
like some serious money and time was spent on their construction. But
aside from those things, there's not much more praiseworthy to bring
up. The movie is really confusing at times, with several plot points
brought up so suddenly in the narrative that I'm pretty confident I'm
correct in thinking the movie was severely cut in the editing room,
taking away the introduction and explanation to these plot points.
Despite this editing, there are still plenty of ridiculous things to be
found in the movie, like the youths getting around in this
post-apocalypse world on roller-skates. But most of these ridiculous
things are just mildly amusing, not insane enough to make this worth
seeing on a camp level. Will anyone like it? Well, I have an idea that
(very young) kids - especially kids who have not seem many better
fantasy movies - might get some enjoyment out of it, but I'm sure
they'll still question a lot of the movie's incoherent moments.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, it is definitely dated looking, but so is Real Genius, which is my
all time favorite. It's not like it's Howard The Duck or something! I
love cheesy 80's movies, and this is one for which I am waiting with
baited breath to be released on DVD. I mean, look at Tron, total
cheese, great movie! 

Classics are sometimes classics because of their nostalgic value and
what they offered at the time. This movie features some of the 80's
biggest stars, not to mention a few who have continued with successful
TV shows and film. Lukas Haas is so pickin' cute, and James LeGros is
terrific as the bratty Metron.

Honestly, if someone saw Star Wars for the very first time nowadays,
they would roll their eyes and walk out. Watch this with an open mind,
and you'll enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>
OK, firstly, you are watching (or about to watch) a movie called
'Solarbabies'. If that doesn't deter you, then you are probably at
least semi-aware of what you are getting yourself into, and why.
Meaning: if you are not a connoisseur of badly-aged cheese, you
probably shouldn't be here.

As far as C-grade postapocalyptic movies from the 80s are concerned,
this is one of the weirder ones, but very entertaining if you are into
that sort of thing. The movie is for a younger audience, so no T&A or
gratuitous blood & gore. However, its most audacious gamble is the way
it channels postapocalyptic fascism, oppression, torture, truncheon
violence (of note is the amazing Orwell-style "indoctrination" scene),
and sexual desire through the prism of roller-skating, packaging it to
the unsuspecting bunch of tweens & teens whose parents didn't allow
them to see Mad Max when it came out. 

So yeah! This group of orphans calling themselves Solarbabies basically
just wants to play a futuristic combination of roller hockey and
lacrosse all the time, but they are jailed up in a postapocalyptic
concentration camp/police academy for 'orphans', with a heavy roller-
blading component. (They can sneak out, though - the rules are pretty
lax, since they are in the middle of a desert wasteland and water is
scarce.) If you are sufficiently cruel, you get to join the ranks of
the E-Police. If you aren't E-Police material, you are probably going
to end up a hard laborer (presumably on rollerblades as well), or worse
yet, be sent in for 'surgical alteration'. Anyway, one of the
Solarbabies finds a magical orb in a cave and befriends it. Of course,
the E-Police hate the orb and wish to destroy it. There's also a guy
that befriends crows and stuff...roll film!

AWESOME: the locations (filmed in Spain, the sets give the scenery the
expanse it needs to work); the level of heavy-handed oppression,
courtesy of the head E-Police chief and his weird update on the Nazi
commandant uniform; great chase-and-destroy scenes with armored
vehicles and two shantytowns; the sexual innuendos; lasers; finally,
the torture scene!! Remember, you are watching a children's movie about
a magical glowing orb that befriends some orphans.

LAME: the glowing orb; the feelings of good cheer the children
experience when hanging out and playing roller hockey with the orb (by
that, I mean they use the sentient orb as a puck); the eco-hippy stuff;
the lame attempt to make this into a metaphor for growing up confused
and trying to find your place in a vast and soulless world; the lack of
more oppression and truncheons in the film.

LACKING: T&A, David Carradine
<|_=00=_|>

This one seems to be everyones pet hate for some reason, but it really
doesn't deserve all that bad press. It is a more than decent sci-fi movie
in
Road Warrior territory. The rulers use water shortage to upress the masses
but the magic ball Bodai and The Solarbabies on rollerskates take up the
fight. Nice work by Lucas Haas and the beautiful Jamie Gertz, a highly
underrated actress. High budget insures high productionvalues, this film
both look and sounds good. 7/10 
<|_=00=_|>
What is it about this silly piece of 1980's scifi cheese that makes it
so much fun to watch? "Solarbabies" (easily one of the worst titles in
movie history) is unlike any movie you've ever seen before, if only
because is has so much fun being so freaking bizarre.

The plot of the movie is basically irrelevant, a mishmash of every 80's
scifi movie clich√© imaginable - plus roller skates. A group of
post-apocalyptic teenagers take on the fascist water-hoarders by, among
other things, roller skating across the desert (honest to God!) and
attacking the bad guys' superfortress with hockey sticks and a glowing
bouncy ball. Think "Mad Max" meets "Starlight Express." Once you start
watching, you'll be hooked. Probably a great movie to watch while
wasted.
<|_=00=_|>
After about 20 years of having little more than vague memories of this
movie rollerskating about in my head, I finally broke down and
re-watched Solarbabies.

All I can say is, well, bless them for trying. It really isn't a BAD
movie... it does manage to be entertaining even though it occasionally
drags. The only problem is that it borrows a lot from other movies and
never seems to decide on a style of its own.

Overall I didn't feel as drawn in to the story as I'd hoped, but
despite the somewhat vague plot and generic characters, it was still
good fun. And if nothing else, it teaches us that all we really need to
set things right in the world are friendship and roller skating. And
maybe a magic ball from outer space.
<|_=00=_|>
Silly nonsense about a post-apocalyptic future where it doesn't rain
and the kids are raised in a prison. There they play a game that's kind
of a kids' version of Rollerball and wait to grow up and become guards
or something for the corporation running the world. They find a glowing
alien ball called Bohdai and uninteresting stuff happens. Laughable to
the extreme, with ugly-looking '80s costumes and an odd fascination
with rollerskating. It's unintentionally funny at times, and I totally
give it points for that, but ultimately it's just embarrassing for all
involved. See it for Jami Gertz, because you should see anything with
Jami Gertz.
