
Because this film has been so stubbornly withheld from the home-video
market, it has been years since the last time I saw it. Still, as a
serious aficionado of fine acting, I still retain vivid memories of
this lively flick and I can not understand all the negative reaction it
received. The characters who populate this story are fascinating and
memorably enacted by a superb cast. It would be little more than
another typical caper flick were it not for the well-drawn weaknesses
of the main characters which lead them inexorably into a high pressure
situation from which they must try with all their might to escape. If
you ever get to see this show, watch for the marvelous work of the
numerous supporting players such as Richard Bradford. It is a
deliciously glossy, stylish film but with a character-driven story that
thoroughly engrossed me each time I saw it. It dances precariously
between comedy and drama in a manner which I found intriguing and
delightful. In view of all the bad reviews I have read about "Looking
to Get Out" I deeply regret that it persists in being unavailable year
after year. I would love to look at it again to try to figure out what
causes so many folks to dislike it. Is it simply a matter of taste? I
do not know.
<|_=00=_|>
It is a common practice: it is enough that a false authority (most
entertainment reporters who are no film critics, just regular
spectators) dislikes something, for a choir of followers to repeat his
opinion and create undeserved bad reputation for a cultural product.
Such is the case of (among many others) "Born to Win", "The Hotel New
Hampshire" and "Lookin' to Get Out", all the three curiously made in
the 1980s, a difficult times in the history of the United States, under
Ronald Reagan's dominant image. Respectively directed by Czech Ivan
Passer, British Tony Richardson and American Hal Ashby, the three films
had something valuable to say about US individuals, institutions and
customs: be it the disintegration of the couple due to drug abuse, the
dysfunction of nuclear families, consumerism or a certain vulgarity
that may describe Las Vegas too well. None of the three films is a
masterpiece, but they rise above the low scores and bad opinions that
surround them. In particular, "Lookin' to Get Out (the director's cut)
did not diminish at all the great admiration I have for Ashby, one of
the most underrated American filmmakers, with a magnificent work that
includes "The Landlord", "Harold and Maude", "The Last Detail",
"Shampoo", "Bound for Glory", "Coming Home", "Being There" and the
documentary "Let's Spend the Night Together", all containing his
privileged perception of his fellow Americans and their cultures: who
has ever made any two titles of those, has the liberty to make lesser
films as "8 Million Ways to Die" or "Lookin' to Get Out", which are not
bad at all. Written by Al Schwartz and Jon Voight, "Lookin' to Get Out"
is a typical American film comedy drama about gambling buddies,
prostituted women, exaggerated bad taste, and a peculiar cultural way
of reacting to troubles, stuff that has being the basis of dozens of
dramatic comedies, much worse than this, in which Voight and Burt Young
try to get out of trouble, when they have to pay 10 thousand dollars in
24 hours, and the only solution they come up with is going to gamble in
Las Vegas, where Ann-Margret crosses their path with a different
agenda. The plot, which does not aspire for an award to originality,
benefits however from the performances of the central cast (Voight,
Young, Ann-Margret, Bert Remsen and Richard Bradford), without
forgetting the contribution of a group of unknown faces that add weight
to the story being told; from maestro Haskell Wexler's cinematography;
and mainly Â–in my opinion- from Ashby's hand, from his subtle and
affectionate style to capture the fragility of the demented characters,
to handle with caution the grotesque and violent, but without
suppressing those events and attitudes that offend human dignity, day
after day. If you find a copy of Ashby's cut, don't miss it. You will
add another title to the gallery of good performances by Voight,
Ann-Margret and Young, your appreciation of Ashby will not be affected
a bit (unless you have overrated "Harold and Maude") and, as a bonus,
you'll see Angelina Jolie (Voight) at six, playing her talented
father's little girl. The extended version edition includes a reunion
of the actors, who evoke Ashby's memories and his working method.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this film was excellent! I saw the extended version on DVD so
uncertain what the clipped version looks like.

Jon Voight is superlative as the annoying wise guy gambler. Burt Young
doesn't appear to be acting as the NYC street wise buddy - he is that
good or at least well cast. Ann-Margret nails it as the old girl-friend
who can't quite get Voight's character Alex out of her system. She is
smoldering every time she is on screen and she really keeps the viewer
enthralled with all the male actors vying for attention. Her extended
kiss as Patti Warner with Alex will jolt male and female viewers alike
with its tenderness and anticipation!

Should be required viewing for anyone with, or knows someone with a
gambling addiction!

Really combines some of the best elements of Ocean's 11, The Sting and
Don Quixote. Don't miss the last 15 minutes to see who is conning who.

The scene with real life father Jon Voight and daughter Angelina Jolie
is not to be missed as it came off surreal to me. Watch and see what I
mean.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I get into my critique of "Lookin' To Get Out", I feel I should
mention that I saw the original theatrical cut of the movie via finding
an old VHS release of the movie. Supposedly, the DVD release of this
movie runs 15 extra minutes and supposedly improves the movie. That may
be the case, but from what I saw, I can't see any extra footage making
a big improvement of the mess that I saw. True, the DVD cut may explain
a number of unanswered questions the original cut had, like why one
character has bandages over one of his eyes. But the movie would still
have a slow and plot less feel - it frequently feels that the actors
are making it up as they go along. And while I think Voight and Young
are talented actors, they give extremely annoying performances. The
only thing that survives intact is the performance by Bert Remsen as
the professional gambler - he's colorful, and commands the screen in
his scenes. But even he can't save the movie enough to make it worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film in the theater when it was released. 

For more than a decade I had jobs where I worked nights and saw
virtually every movie that hit the theaters in my mid-sized town,
sometimes two or three in a day - even driving to other nearby larger
cities that got films we didn't. I watched videos quite a lot too. 

This is the only movie in my entire life I've ever walked out on...
ever! There was not one single character that had a single redeeming
quality. They weren't just flawed, they were broken. I couldn't
identify/connect with them, I couldn't relate to them, I couldn't dig
up a single scrap of empathy for any of the lot of them. 

John Voight's character was the worst as I recall, but dear Lord the
monomaniacal self-absorption of those people was simply not
entertaining. 

And to give you an idea of what I AM willing to sit through, I've
watched Blood Sucking Freaks and finished it. 

But these characters were totally... repellent is the only word I can
think begins to describe my response with any accuracy.

I watch movies to be entertained, not tortured.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a comedy, even if it really tries to be, instead it often
feels 

ridiculous.

Now how can you be a friend to somebody who, when he gets lucky, spends
all to finish depressed, and then jump up joyfully at the next occasion
to get lucky.

That's right. Manic depression, a mental disorder.

Out stands the appearance of little Angelina in the end, obviously not
good at acting, but she worked on it, and became much better then her
father, who really acted to his best, but it was still acting, and the
movie never came as a comedy. The movie may have been OK in the 80ies,
but it has aged very badly.

As Jon Voight quotes : Irresponsible people shouldn't have kids.

This movie is rather a tragedy about a little girl and her father,
going their own way.
<|_=00=_|>
"Lookin' to Get Out" is directed by Hal Ashby one of the most original
and underrated directors of all time, but the 1970's was his best
decade directing classics like "Being There" and "Harold and Maude". In
the 1980's his final decade he release minor works and then died in
1988. In 1982 he directed this film written by Jon Voight about two
gamblers trying to get away of trouble after one of them lose a lot of
money on a bet. 

Alex (Voight) and Jerry (Burt Young) go to Las Vegas and they pretend
to be friends of Bernie Gold (Richard Bradford) the owner of a hotel
casino and enjoy a high class hotel suite and have some fun. But Harry
(Jude Farese) the guy who Jerry owes money is trying to find them. And
also there's time to see some old friends like Patti (Ann-Margret) a
prostitute who was romantically involved with Jerry, now living with
Bernie and her daughter (Angelina Jolie, very little making her first
appearance on films). 

It's a comedy with two lost characters running away of trouble and
creating another ones. It's very different from any other works from
Ashby, it's empty, pointless, easy to follow in some parts, and no
great acting. But it's enjoyable to watch and more easy to follow than
"Shampoo" (great film but so many confusing and long considering that
is a comedy). But compared to "Harold and Maude" this is a
disappointment. 

What makes this film good is Burt Young who has a great and funny
character, finally he made something so likable as much as Polly in the
"Rocky" series. His best joke in the movie is ask Jon Voight's
character every time she sees a smiling woman if she's a hooker.
Voight, by the way, has a few good scenes, most of the time his
shouting his lines and being annoying with his partner. 

Entertaining in some strange level, but if you expect clever humor,
interesting lines or a original plot stay away of it because you won't
find it here. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
The DVD of the Ashby cut of the film (which he'd donated without
telling anyone that it had fifteen extra minutes) was released with
great fanfare. Finally this film had a chance of being seen in the
director's vision.

Except that we are no better off. This is still a horrid film that goes
nowhere.

Ashby was a fine director who unfortunately got lost in a drug haze in
his later years. Despite the enthusiasm of all concerned in the
interviews on the DVD, this is a movie that runs out of steam very
early. Voight plays an obnoxious character whom we don't pull for, and
Burt Young is wasted as his buddy.
<|_=00=_|>
"Lookin' To Get Out" was a bit of an ego project for actor Jon Voight,
who wrote, starred and partially financed the film. Voight, unable to
get a director to shoot his script, hired Hal Ashby, who at the time
was stuck in an existential rut, smoking cocaine and drinking booze.

The film, a 17 million dollar flop, stars Voight and Burt Young as a
couple of New York losers who lose $10,00 in a poker game. They thus go
to Las Vegas hoping to win back some big bucks. In Vegas the two hook
up with former call girl Ann-Margret, set up headquarters in the MGM
Grand Hotel, and break the bank in the casino. 

Reportedly, director Hal Ashby's cut of the film was heavily chopped by
both Paramount and Voight. The result is a mess, as much of the film's
dialogue seems badly improvised, and the entire film consists of Voight
showing off, each scene crafted simply to prove how great and gritty an
actor he is. It's all very vain.

7/10 - This review was based on a very poor, damaged copy of the film.
For Ashby completists only.
<|_=00=_|>
ctitus924 states in the previous review that you can see the MGM Grand
in Cher's Believe DVD - that is not true - the MGM Grand in this film
was involved in a major fatal fire in 1980 and was then sold - it is
now Bally's hotel and casino in Vegas. The MGM Grand in Cher's video is
newer - it was built later and is farther down the strip. As for the
movie- I am watching it now as I type and while it is great to see old
Vegas locations, so far I am finding it a little slow moving...but
interesting to see Vegas in the late 70's when this was filmed. There
are some great clips of various Vegas acts and the cast of recognizable
actors in the film is impressive.
