
Out of all the Scorsese films - I would have to admit this ranks in the
top five. After Hours draws you into it's dark and surreal world with
fantastical wonder. The characters are all interesting, the acting
superb - especially Griffin Dunne - and the pacing is great.

It was made in 1985, and I can already see the techniques Scorsese used
in Goodfellas - and the quick editing. It is directed and edited really
well. So if you were a fan of Scorsese's frantic camera work in
Goodfellas and Casino, this film is for you.

It really does put you on edge - as a viewer, you really want Dunne's
character to get back home - but everything possible that could happen
to him - happens. This is not just a evocation of soHo in the early
80's - it is a deeply black comedy. All the rules go out the window for
Dunne's character, because after all it is after hours.

Scorsese really is the best living director at the moment - so do
yourself a favour and watch this movie - it's fantastic.
<|_=00=_|>
This wasn't a big hit when it came out, but it should have been. Martin
Scorsese is a master of creating atmosphere and exploring a specific
setting, and he has proved that in movies like Taxi Driver and Gangs of
New York. In this film he brings the SoHo of the early to mid 1980s to
life in brilliant and surreal fashion. Griffin Dunne is a great Every
Man character. You like him from the very first scene and you follow
his adventures with excitement and dread. The tension in this film is
also intense, and that is amazing for a light hearted comedy. I am
always surprised to hear that people have not seen this movie, or that
people don't like this movie. I urge all Scorsese fans to see it. It's
one of his best, even though many critics did not like it when it came
out. It's a cult hit, but it deserves to be more than that too. It's a
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
'After Hours' is a really dark, nightmarish comedy and is one of Martin
Scorsese's most enjoyable films. Griffin Dunne is perfection as the
computer operator who meets lovely but ditsy Rosanna Arquette in a
diner and arranges to meet her late one night. His journey to downtown
New York goes hideously wrong when he loses his taxi fare and spends
the rest of the evening trying to get home. Along the way we meet
feisty Linda Fiorentino, whimsical Verna Bloom, Gorgeous but hysterical
Teri Garr and Dusty Springfield look alike Catherine O'Hara. We also
get to witness suicide, murder, robbery and vigilante mobs in this tale
of big city madness. The camera-work is stupendous and features every
trick in the book. There is much to admire in this film and thankfully
it now has a DVD release with a commentary by the Director and star.
<|_=00=_|>
I was living in Los Angeles in the golden '80s, the last great age of
American films I think. I watched the video of 'After Hours' so many
times it wore out and am happy it is now available on DVD. But I
hesitate to buy said DVD. Why? This film is extremely disturbing, and
not really a comedy but a gruesome and pitch black snapshot of NYC
culture that cuts very close to the bone for those of us who knew the
nightlife of Sunset Boulevard on the other side of the country. The
similarities between NYC and LA at that time were legion, the only
difference being the cavernous, sinister streets of NY were not lined
with palm trees. David Lynch's 'Mulholland Drive' best captures that
aspect of danger and tragedy on the west coast that Scorsese has
captured on the eastern seaboard. 

Griffin Dunne has to be the most under-rated American comedian and it
is a very good thing his gifts were captured so beautifully in 'After
Hours'. His character seems to be the only sane person in Manhattan. He
is mostly surrounded a bevy of beautiful and hopelessly neurotic and
ruthless women.

Rosanna Arquette, a strange actress all on her own, is cast in a very
weird part in this film. Nothing she does makes sense which makes her
behavior entirely plausible within the circumstances of her
environment. Kafka, the author Dunne's character is reading, sets the
tone for this dark and dangerous story. Arquette is perfect as the
doomed suicide, a sort of modern grand guignol character. She is also
tremendously annoying and it's a relief when her whining person is
dispatched in the creepy loft she inhabits with Linda Fiorentino. 

There is a fine performance from Linda Fiorentino (whatever happened to
her?), as an s/m style dominatrix/artist in SoHo who leads Paul (Dunne)
a merry dance through the darkest bowels of the nightclub scene during
the "punk" hey-day. Terri Garr, a seemingly sweet and "normal" city
girl, a blonde, all-American girl living in a sickeningly sweet and
Dada-esquire little apartment. She is the most horrifying of all the
women Paul encounters. She struck me as being a potential murderess
should Paul have decided to linger longer with her. It was a great
relief when he escaped her burgeoning hysteria and ran back into the
streets. Verna Bloom's motherly artist caps off Paul's horrible journey
by encasing him in plaster of Paris and leaving him in a basement flat
fit for Frankenstein's monster.

John Heard is entirely weird and menacing as a soft-spoken but
highly-strung bartender, another mass-murderer waiting to blossom looms
in the background of his personality.

Scorsese has zeroed in on the familiar things in our lives in a most
alarming manner. Cheap bathrooms in cheaply renovated lofts and cramped
little apartments. The god- awfulness of the lives of these people is
deeply disturbing, and now that I am19 years older than when I first
watched this film so avidly, I am not so sure I want to dive back into
that vortex of neurasthenia and darkness again.

But I probably will. One of Scorsese's best and definitely his most
under-rated film.

Watch at your own risk.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps one of the Scorsese minor masterpieces that sometimes get lost
when considering "Goodfellas" or even "Mean Streets," films that get
the bulk of the chatter. This, along with "King of Comedy" run in a
very different vein, combining black comedy with tension and suspense
as a central spine to the piece. Sure, Goodfellas has some black
comedic moments, but on whole, it stands as a "drama" rather than a
comedy. This is a VERY different film and will cause you to laugh and
to shake your head in sympathy and mutter "Oh NO" more than once. I
rated it a 9, I have no idea why this got lower marks than that. See it
more than once.
<|_=00=_|>
N.B. Spoilers within.

This is an underrated, sublimely realized black comedy by the (at the
time) struggling Scorcese. There is a perfect balance here between the
big picture-uptown white-collar insurance guy out of his league in
night-time bohemian SoHo-and infinite numbers of details within.
Scorcese has taken a great script by Joseph Minion and crafted a piece
of comedy, suspense, self-exploration, plenty of twists, and
interpersonal discovery. Our lead, Paul Hackett (the subtle and
brilliant Griffin Dunne) is the most hapless "hero" to grace the screen
in a long time. Whatever can go wrong does go wrong. As Paul steps into
the next venture, there is no telling what will come of it. The script
keeps the viewer constantly on edge and clueless as to what to expect
next. Paranoia becomes rampant.

The music that frames the picture-a youthful symphony by
Mozart-defines the outwardly tidy guidelines of Paul's world (number
crunching and computer interfacing). But even the small glimpse we get
of that world says that all is not right. The trainee whom Paul is
overseeing (a small part for Bronson Pinchot-see "True Romance") hates
the job and wants out of it. Then there is that telling moment where
Paul looks around him and watches everything flow by in its
idiosyncratic motion. The quick vision is both sexy and unsettling.
He's having a momentary insight, but exactly into what? Is his whole
life here empty and pointless? Is he bored out of his mind? Scorcese
never lets us know for sure. But then Paul meets Marcy in the diner and
the fun begins.

We can't know if Murphy's Law applies to Paul all the time, but it
certainly does on this fateful night. There is a flat-out poetic shot
of Paul's sole 20-dollar bill floating from the cab into oblivion, and
this is just the beginning. This brings up my first observation,
though, on Scorcese: his stunning and beautiful camera work. It flows,
it jumps, it's liquid, now it interrupts jarringly. The whole effort
contributes to the anxious nature of the story and of how Paul never
feels completely grounded while he's out of his territory.

The multitudes of characters that Paul meets are all convoluted stories
unto themselves. Kiki (a smoking-hot Linda Fiorentino-where has she
gone?), Marcy's artist roommate, and the ultimate 80s bohemian; her
leather-bound friend Horst (a menacing Will Patton); the "nice"
waitress (Teri Garr) with more baggage than Paul can handle; Gail (the
hilarious Catherine O'Hara) who will turn on Paul in a big way; Tom the
bartender (John Heard), himself a ticking time-bomb; Cheech and Chong,
industrious through the long night, and the solution to who the bad
SoHo burglars are; but especially there's Marcy (the luscious Rosanna
Arquette). She is sweet, good-hearted, ditsy, but full of dark secrets.
A lot of these are spilled, others only suggested. The rape story, for
example...hard to understand until you've seen it, but it's full of
comedy. Arquette plays Marcy just right, a girl who is just short of
being completely unhinged, but who still stumbles ahead smoothly and
confidently if not a good bit clueless-ly. This is one unique
character. Her suicide contributes much to Paul's emotional weight-how
exactly did he contribute to it?-and also to the comedy's being so
black.

"After Hours" occupies an era that is pre-ATMs and cell phones, but
there are Checker cabs, subway tokens, gritty artists' lofts, and
rotary phones. Punk is king. The picture strikes me as being linear,
yes, but also kaleidoscopic: Paul meets and re-meets the same
characters throughout, but each time this happens, his circumstances
have taken a new turn. The story is also full of strange details that
help knit the whole together. An example: the subject of burns and
scars. There is this brief focus on burns and burn treatments. Marcy's
cream, her trip to the drugstore to get it, the book of gruesome
pictures that Paul can't keep himself from...then Marcy floats back in
(he slams the book shut) and what is she holding? A candle with a huge
flame! Ha! It's details like these that make the movie feel so
integrated. (Even Kiki tells Paul she has "horrible, ugly scars.")
Finally, and this part is truly sick, once Marcy is dead under the
sheet, Paul can't help but inspect her body for those suspected burn
marks. Ugh 

I have to mention the last of Paul's meetings, when there is absolutely
nowhere else to turn: June, at the club (Verna Bloom), seems to be the
only person who truly understands his predicament and who helps to
finally "rescue" him, but her means are highly suspicious. Is she also
trying to kill him? What a stroke. One of the key themes of the flick
is that everyone Paul encounters is for the moment his savior, but who
soon leads him into more trouble than he already has. It is Paul/Upper
East Side/trying-his-best versus the
nighttime/living-on-the-fly/Downtown mentality, and "After Hours"
places the two mindsets at opposite ends of the universe.

Scorcese, temporarily abandoning the beleaguered "Last Temptation," hit
the mark spot-on with this wonderful comedy. In the process he proved
his love for the medium, not to mention loving all the memorable
characters that inhabit the wacky, unpredictable story. I also think
this is Griffin Dunne's pinnacle: he perfectly inhabits a role where
everything is falling apart around him but where he hangs on and finds
something inside that keeps plugging on until the sun rises again.
Polished, inspired, funny, and disturbing film making. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Such a dark, ironic and uncomfortably funny string of events plus a large
helping of bizarre, paranoid and unpredictable characters have never
before
been forged into one story.

The film follows Paul Hacket (Griffin Dunne) on a date from hell, where
from
square one it all goes horribly wrong.  As we move on, the mood winds up
into a frenzied nightmare as this poor mans' plight goes from bad to
worse.
"All I want to do is go home" he says, running for his life from an angry
mob.

The story isn't complex, which you may think could bore, but the
characters
are so delightfully wacky that you can't help but be transfixed.

We've all had bad days when we've said "Phew!  What a nightmare!" - well
forget it, until you've taken half the knocks this guy does, you've had
but
a walk in the park.

Don't just rent this movie - buy it.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this when this first came out about 19 (!) years ago, and it
became my favorite movie of 1985, and probably my favorite Scorsese
film ("Goodfellas" is right there with it). However it always seemed
that I was the only one who felt that way. It was no sensation at the
box office (even by art film standards), it was ignored by all the
awards as far as I remember, and no DVD release.

Until now. First off, I am happy to report that the new DVD release
looks and sounds great. It feels like the film came out last year.

Now, years down the road, you really appreciate how accomplished "After
Hours" is in the wake of 100s of inferior indie releases that ape the
urban paranoia and "downtown" sensibility that this seems to
effortlessly catch. The film is pitch perfect:you sense a filmmaker in
complete command, but the film is always off balance (as intended). The
plot seems to flow randomly and the movie always defies your
expectations, yet it's as tightly assembled as a jigsaw puzzle.

It's easy to catch the Scorsese style of shooting and editing, really
starting to roll here (before taking off in "The Color of Money" and
"Goodfellas"), as the engine of the movie. You have to remind yourself
that every other director was not trying to make movies this way at
this point (1985), and that you are watching the inventor, not just the
best practitioner.

But don't overlook the cast's contributions. Perfectly cast down to the
smallest roles (yes, I mean you Dick Miller), few things are more
enjoyable than watching an able cast take the ball and run with it.
Obviously having a blast, they not only jump into their parts, but they
have no hesitation at being unlikable and annoying. Particularly
Griffin Dunne, the perfect Everyman, who becomes more and more of a
jerk as the night wears on.

<|_=00=_|>
To get an understanding of the caliber film we're dealing with, you
have to imagine some of the finest elements of other films being wound
into a tight 95 minute package and directed by the incomparable Martin
Scorsese. After Hours reminds this critic in many ways of Stanley
Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut. But somehow it seems to be about the best
elements of that film. Our film deals with a mild-mannered Manhattan
office worker taking a late night trip to the Soho district to meet up
with a beautiful woman he first encountered earlier in the evening. So,
much like with Tom Cruise in EWS, we have a protagonist searching for
love in a world completely foreign to him. But instead of a never
ending and overly talky film, we get a tightly wound and much better
paced film from Scorsese. When the film does slow down for
conversations, the ones we're treated to are comparable to the best
Tarantino ever wrote for any of his films. Fortunately we don't get too
many of them, like we would in a Tarantino film, however.

Griffin Dunne plays Paul Hackett, who is bound and determined to hook
up with Marcy (Rosanne Arquette) whom he met in a restaurant earlier
that evening. Once he makes it to Soho, Paul quickly realizes this
spur-of-the-moment rendezvous may have been a terrible idea. Apparently
Soho is (or was in 1985) a macabre place full of eccentric artists,
bondage enthusiasts, and vigilante mobs made up of mostly gay people.
Not only does Paul fail to score with Marcy, he ends up being stranded
in the neighborhood with no money to get home, and being blamed for
several apartment break-ins by a crowd that wants his blood! Every
place or person he turns to for help seems to get him deeper and deeper
into danger. There are all kinds of famous or soon to be famous people
popping up in little roles here and there. Will Patton as a leather
clad bondage enthusiast may be the most odd. Also look for Scorsese in
a nightclub sporting a beard and shining a spotlight down on the rowdy
patrons.

Unlike many Scorsese films, this one does not rely much at all on
violence to get the point of danger across. I believe there is only one
violent death, and the victim is not a main character. But in true
Scorcese form, the scene produces a laugh! More than anything else,
this film has a claustrophobic feeling. It's as if the world is
crumbling all around Paul Hackett, and the next door he walks through
may be his last. By the final fifteen minutes, he finds himself in the
apartment of a gay man he picks on the street. To the man's obvious
disappointment, Hackett simply wants someone to tell his story to.
Before the scene has any type of logical conclusion, Hackett finds
himself back on the street running for his life once again. His
momentary attempt at finding compassion shattered in the blink of an
eye. The whole film is kind of like that.

After Hours may not be for all tastes, but this critic first saw it
back in junior high and never forgot what a treasure it is. 10 of 10
stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
While reading the Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer in a coffee shop, the
bored word processor Paul Hackett (Griffe Dunne) meets Marcy Franklin
(Rosanna Arquette), and she gives her phone number to him. Close to
midnight, Paul decides to call her and she invites him to visit her in
the loft of her friend, the sculptor Kiki Bridges (Linda Fiorentino),
in Soho. Paul gets a taxi and loses his money through the open window
of the cab. Paul arrives in Kiki's place, where begins his surrealistic
adventure along the night. 

I do not know how many times I have seen this movie along my life,
maybe ten times, but it still attracts me and now I have just seen it
for the first time on DVD. I love it and it is one of my favorite cult
movies. The surrealistic 'saga' of Paul Hackett trapped in Soho without
means to return home is fantastic and fascinate me. The cast,
direction, soundtrack and camera are excellent. I believe it is the
best role and performance of Griffin Dunne in his career. My vote is
nine.

Title (Brazil): 'Depois de Horas' ('After Hours (literally)')
