
I don't know if I was in a rare forgiving frame of mind but The Hand
actually worked for me.

It doesn't go very deep in the psychological department and just about
every average viewer can spot the twist but then the end just throws
everything out the window and leaves the audience shouting; What the
****! 

But it's well acted, especially by Caine who completely earns viewer's
sympathy. Writer/director Oliver Stone effortlessly builds up suspense
and atmosphere and some scenes here do work really well. Technical
aspects are surprisingly well handled and make up effects are gruesome
and well done.

While The Hand won't go down as a cinematic masterpiece, it's a solid
thriller nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Stone and Michael Caine may well feel a little embarrassed by
this tale of a cartoonist haunted by his own severed drawing hand, but
despite it's ludicrous premise and rather rubbery effects from Stan
Winston, the film isn't all THAT bad.

Michael Caine brings an amiable nonchalance to the E.C. horror comic
style proceedings while portraying his character's ever growing
bitterness perfectly. While the story provides little in surprises the
film does work on more than one level, leaving the viewer wondering if
what's going on, is all in mind of Caine's character or that it is
indeed actually happening. And for a film like this that makes you
think, or more fittingly, makes you stop thinking how all very silly
this all is, is no mean feat.
<|_=00=_|>

An early Oliver Stone directed film. The Hand does well with atmospheric
settings, an essential part of any horror story. There's the beautiful
country lakeside home, a New York loft and a rain drenched Northern
California town.

The horror level won't blow you out of the room however. It's more of a
story of dark, suspicious moods and egos presented with intelligent scripted
dialogue by a first rate cast. Mara Hobel, playing the young daughter, even
does well with little furtive glances, dead pan stares and pert
smiles.

A master touch is the final scene between a thoroughly exhausted and
shattered Caine and the Viveca Lindfors 'there are no such things as ghosts'
psychiatrist. The final freeze frame of Caine rising up with a look of
gloating madness is brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
A cartoonist of comics "Jonathan Lansdale" (Michael Caine) loses a hand
in an unfortunate accident that ends with his career and creates a
strong tension in their marriage. As a harrowing nightmare, the hand
lost appears, committing atrocious murders.

It's the first commercial launch of high budget of Oliver Stone, which
was not well received by the criticism at the time. It's a movie
surprising and very intriguing whose value more remarkable is the
ambiguity that its director Oliver Stone poses in this psychological
thriller based on the novel by Mark Brandel "The tail of the lizard".

Stone shows us a dense atmosphere and surreal, where the subjectivity
seizes the story. There are times when the film that we question
whether what we recount and we see is really the case or any other
remedy used to deceive and confuse the viewer. Through the film and
gradual manner the story is complicating and becomes increasingly
difficult to distinguish reality from fantasy, where the film has a
turbid, dark, surreal, disturbing atmosphere.

Very good performance of Michael Caine, with a good management of the
camera, and a pleasant and tense music of James Horner.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this movie soon after it came out and the special
effects were not bad for the time period that it came out despite what
people say. Remember, Star Wars had only been out a few years by this
time. As far as the movie goes, Caine does quite well with his part and
the plot is believable in the way Freddie Kruger is believable. If
you've seen many "creature" movies, then this one could seem to be
predictable and thus lose some of it's "boo" effect. Wait until the end
and watch closely. If you've seen this movie you should know what I
mean, if not then pay close attention. After seeing that final scene
you suddenly realize that maybe all wasn't as it seemed. Go back
through this movie and keep in mind that last scene. Suddenly the whole
movie transcends the Freddie Kruger believable and becomes in fact
quite plausible. It's like watching Star Wars Episode 4 after just
watching Episode 3, it all takes on new meaning!
<|_=00=_|>
This is an exciting psychological thriller based on the novel by Mark
Brandel "The tail of the lizard" , though was consistently underrated
by most reviewers . It's a surprising flick and very intriguing whose
value more remarkable is the ambiguity that its filmmaker Oliver Stone
poses in this . A surreal psycho-horror pastiche in which a famous
cartoonist of comics named "Jonathan Lansdale" (Michael Caine) who
lives unhappily with his wife (Andrea Marcovicci) loses a hand , being
severed in an unfortunate car accident that ends with his career and
creates a strong tension in their marriage . Soon after , the hand is
on the loose with a mind of its own . As a harrowing nightmare, the
lost hand appears seeking out victims , committing atrocious murders
with an obsessive revenge.

This first important Oliver Stone film contains chills , thrills ,
suspenseful and is quite entertaining . It's the first commercial
outing in medium budget from Oliver Stone, which was not well received
by the criticism at the time. . Stone's sophomore directorial shows us
a dense , unique , atmospheric and surreal ambient , where the
subjectivity seizes the story . There are times when the film that we
question whether what we recount and we see is really the case or any
other remedy used to deceive and confuse the spectator . Through the
film and gradual manner the story is complicating and becomes
increasingly difficult to distinguish reality from fantasy . This theme
about a hand on the loose with a a mind on its own is already been seen
in former films such as The Hands of Orlac (1924 by Rober Wiene , Mad
Love (1934) by Karl Freund with Peter Lorre and Hands of Orlac (1960)
by Edmond T Greville with Christopher Lee and Mel Ferrer . First rate
acting by Michael Caine as Jon Lansdale , a comic book artist who loses
his right hand in a car accident , though Michael said in a TV
interview that the only reason he did this film was to earn enough to
put a down payment on a new garage he was having built .Oliver Stone
initially wanted Jon Voight to play the lead role, but was turned down
by him ; Christopher Walken and Dustin Hoffman also declined the role .
Very good support cast formed by expert secondary actors such as Bruce
McGill , Viveca Lindfords , Rosemary Murphy , among others .
Furthermore , a cameo by Oliver Stone as Bum . Colorful cinematography
with a right management of the camera by Baggot , as the picture packs
a turbid, dark, surreal, disturbing atmosphere . Thrilling and tense
musical score by the great James Horner .

The motion picture was professionally directed by Oliver Stone , though
usually panned by mostly critics , nowadays is best considered .Stone
returning from the Vietnam war did his first film , it was a student
film entitled Last Year in Viet Nam (1971), followed by the gritty
horror film Seizure (1974) for which he also wrote the screenplay. The
next seven years saw him direct two films: Mad Man of Martinique (1979)
and this The Hand (1981) . He also wrote many screenplays for films
such as Midnight express (1978), Conan (1982), and Scarface (1983).
Stone won his first Oscar for Midnight express (1978), but his fame was
just beginning to show.
<|_=00=_|>
Not a lot of people feel this, but the way films are made have changed
since the beginning of the millennium. From blocking, cinematography,
film stock, writing, pacing, everything is different. So it's really
refreshing to watch michael caine do his thing in this oliver stone
horrorfest. What might have been over the top campy shtick in the 80s
becomes infinitely watchable.

I agree about the similarities to the shining but doesn't quite match
up. The comments about the burning car i don't agree with. It's
inserted to show michael caine getting unhinged the more he suspects
he's got a pet killer hand out there.

A great movie to check out. Really fun.
<|_=00=_|>
As a psychological thriller this actually works. In large part because
of Michael Caine. As a B movie about a killer hand or a schizo
cartoonist it features Olive Stone's tortured man, driven to ruin by a
woman, whose lack of self-knowledge and unchecked rage propel him to
violence. I kind of agree with another reviewer's disappointment at the
ending not wrapping it up, but The Hand is enough of a thing that I
feel neither way about the end. Stone's vitriol for women, a
characterization many have stuck on throughout his career, is very
apparent here. Caine as Johnathan Lansdale is comfortable in his
beautiful country home, crafting a semi-popular syndicated cartoon. But
his yogic wife Anne (Andrea Marcovicci) wants to do something with her
life and demands a move to NYC. This ends up undoing him, but not
before he struggles with having his writing/drawing hand severed.
Without saying more, I'd recommend this for Caine's gradual unraveling,
an engrossing trip into The Mind and even a good Oliver Stone cameo.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the most terrific movie of M Caïne. The music & noises are
excellent. The cast is perfect, secondary actors and rednecks are really
ugly. The story is a variation on the theme of the lizard
tail.
See this movie if you find it !
<|_=00=_|>
A part of this movie is pure camp  a severed hand plays a kind of an
avenging angel for its former proprietor. Special effects abound. In my
opinion they almost destroy the whole movie, especially the final scene
 they are more silly than scary.

Strange as it may sound, there is a serious, well acted and superbly
constructed drama behind all this. I suspect Oliver Stone wanted to do
something in the vein of Kubrick's Shining here. The story has so many
similarities that a mere coincidence can be ruled out. A comic book
artist feels a midlife crisis coming on. He becomes estranged from his
wife and during a bickering scene while she's driving a car the  you
know what  event takes place. It is perfectly filmed and the way it
comes about is totally plausible. The accident triggers an insane
obsession in the main character's life about what is missing  you feel
it but you don't have it - and it goes much further than a severed
hand. In my opinion Michael Caine does a superb job here playing the
disillusioned artist. Andrea Marcovicci is also very good as the wife
who is a woman with principles" and wants to find herself"  it's
stereotype, but high quality stereotype.

The best and really memorable scene of the movie takes place in a class
room in the attic of a college deep in the sticks. The Caine character
accepted a teaching post there after the accident. The camera takes a
glance of the assembled students. They look extremely dumb and devoid
of any interest. Caine asks them who is their favorite comic book
character. You, Billy? Billy starts thinking hard. After several, very
long seconds he answers I dunno". Caine asks a few other students but
does not get better results. The scene creates a perfect atmosphere of
disillusionment and doom. A girl at least makes eye contact, and she's
not even bad looking. She later looks the Caine character up for some
joyless sex, and the bottomless sadness that girl displays throughout
is simply heart wrenching and epitomizes the dead end aspect of life
one would rather like to forget. Good performance by Annie McEnroe, the
girl. Whatever happened to her? I saw her in Stirba-Werewolf Bitch,
but, well.
