

Another great production from that era. It stars one of the all-time
greats, Veronica Hart, who was probably the best actress to appear in
adult
films and no slouch when it came to the sex, either. In this movie she
plays
a liberated woman determined to enjoy her life and her sexuality on her
own
terms. Veronica was one of a handful of stars in those years who was
always
classy no matter what she was doing. So was co-star Candida Royale, seen
here before she got behind the camera. Tiffany Clark was also a pretty and
worthy performer. Plus there's Merle Michaels, one of the great unsung
heroines of erotica. Her performances were just about always outstanding
and
she often outshone bigger names starring with her.

Roberta Findlay could usually be counted on to deliver a high quality
film. About the only negative for me was Bobby Astyr, one of the few men
in
adult films who rubbed me the wrong way.    
<|_=00=_|>
Now here's a Golden Age adult movie I really wanted to like a whole lot
more than I did. It was made by Roberta Findlay who, along with Ann
Perry (SWEET SAVAGE) and Joanne Williams (LITTLE GIRLS BLUE), made up
the triumvirate of female porno filmmakers of note of that era. With a
solid background in sexploitation (the notorious FLESH trilogy she
instigated with her late husband Michael) and cheesy horror (BLOOD
SISTERS), she proved the most prolific of the lot, also frequently on
hand to shoot other people's stuff such as Chuck Vincent's artsy
VISIONS under the "Anna Riva" pseudonym. A couple of her flicks have
become carnal classics over time, like the darkly ironic ANGEL NUMBER 9
with Darby Lloyd Rains as the female incarnation/punishment of vile
womanizer Alan Marlow and the naughty noir THE TIFFANY MINX with
underrated Crystal Sync in a career performance as the imperiled
heiress. Those films combined cleverly thought-out story lines with the
kind of sex scenes that put up a pup tent in your pants while still
revealing that much-ballyhooed "feminine touch", meaning mostly that
the characters interacted like proper human beings during intercourse
with complicit communication and even occasional bouts of laughter.
Even Findlay's lesser works, to which category THE PLAYGIRL
unfortunately belongs, tend to have their moments. Back in the early
'80s, when this flick initially hit theaters, it was heavily pushed
towards the female contingent of the adult viewing audience as being
"their kind of film", i.e. porn made by a woman about a strong and
assertive woman. Several publications at the time praised it through
the roof (Screw selected it as the best movie of 1982), cementing its
reputation until Candida Royalle  who has a tiny bit part here 
showed the industry how to do this whole chick f*ck flick thing right.

Luscious Laura (legendary Veronica Hart in an uncharacteristically
hesitant performance), pampered spouse to publishing tycoon Carl Bond
(stalwart Ashley Moore), has more time and money on her hands than she
knows what to do with. A self-proclaimed patron to the arts, her MO
consists of "discovering" fresh, new talent in whatever artistic field
as long as the possessor of said talent is male, young and in desperate
need of the type of nurturing Laura's checkbook and genitalia can
provide. Long-suffering Paula (a scene-stealing turn from the always
watchable Samantha Fox), a lowly secretary at Bond's editing firm, sums
it up best when she describes her as being "a rich bitch with a
Pygmalion complex". These words of wisdom are spoken to her smitten
co-worker David Fuller (character actor supreme Robert Bolla), a proof
reader with dreams of penning the Great American Novel as a means of
making it to Laura's bedroom. Naturally, he doesn't listen. As Laura's
breaking hearts left, right and center, Dave slips her the manuscript.
Assuming she has stumbled upon the next Hemingway, the lady makes her
move, preparing him for her special brand of "love with all the
trimmings" (thanks to Babs Streisand for this obscure ON A CLEAR DAY
reference) by offering his services to fellow sex-starved society
sirens such as Merle Michaels and Tiffany Clark. With all this
exhausting game-playing going on, true love would surely come as a
major inconvenience, but that is just what happens when Laura realizes
she feels more for Dave than she thought herself capable of, leading to
a showdown over after dinner drinks (how sophisticated !) with
cuckolded Carl.

As far as I'm concerned, this movie shoots itself in the foot right
away by placing its focus on such an unlikable, self-centered character
as Laura. Findlay probably believed she was presenting us with an
independent woman who made her own choices without apologizing to
anyone. Instead, we get a spoiled brat sponging of her wealthy husband
and making a mockery out of the feelings of men foolish enough to fall
for her. Even the usually dependable Hart, though an actress of innate
warmth (just check out Gary Graver's AMANDA BY NIGHT or Chuck Vincent's
ROOMMATES if you want to catch her at her best), can inject little
sympathy into this shallow, inconsistently written part. Ironically
then, for such a female-oriented project, that the best moments all
belong to the David Fuller character as portrayed by the brilliant
Bolla, right up to the sly comeuppance provided by the film's final
line. Sexually, he was always a good match for Hart  with many
pairings proving the point  so their ultimate coupling here actually
supplies something of a climax. A good thing too, since the rest of the
sex remains disparagingly lukewarm, a really hot number with Bolla and
the frequently underestimated Merle Michaels (Linda Vale's hilariously
dim daughter in Ron Sullivan's first-rate A GIRL'S BEST FRIEND)
notwithstanding. For the sake of identification, the late Bobby Astyr
is seriously miscast as ridiculous rock star Nick Ray, crossover gay
porn superstar George Payne (Francis Ellie's KISS TODAY GOODBYE) plays
painter Victor and an overly made-up Sharon Kane is his alcohol-fueled
one night stand. The latter scene throws up the kind of corner-cutting
detail that drives me up the wall, especially in a movie that otherwise
wears its budget on its sleeve in terms of lighting, photography, etc.
Prior to getting down with Sharon, George takes the picture he made of
Laura (a poorly painted by numbers replica of Hart's publicity shot for
AMANDA by the way) down from the wall, revealing it to be stuck to a
piece of cardboard, and re-attach-es it face down by putting a pin
right through it ! What kind of cheap-jack gallery is this anyway ?
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to learn more about Veronica Hart, whom I had seen in a dopey
80s comedy called "Sex Appeal". I discovered "The Playgirl" on Kazaa
and though it has a theatrical running time and a big cast, it's a
porno! And one of the most hilarious "movies" you gotta see. It starts
off incoherently as Hart arrives in a fancy car, dressed to the nines.
She quickly changes into a t-shirt and shorts with a friend, who is to
aid her in making sure a young man isn't gay. He apparently went to an
all boy's school so his father is worried. So Hart and the other girl
retrieve him from a hot tub where he's "being prepared" (which consists
of him sitting in the water??). Huge laughs begin when the shy kid
snatches for a towel so his member can't be seen. But the one girl just
has to examine his thing, prompting one of the funniest facial
reactions I've ever seen. The "kid", maybe 18, widens his eyes, which
dart around, conveying embarrassment. The two girls sit him on a mat,
where he deliberately juts his hips up so his pole is in clear view.
He's then rubbed with oil and begins sex with one girl. Hart then asks
to have a shot at his (whistles) before it "wilts". Upon the start of
oral sex, the actor, whose name I wish I knew cuz he's funny as hell,
drops his mouth and spins his eyes around. Hart tells him his
(whistles) is so hot that it---and this is the gut-buster of the
century---"makes my insides want to melt". I was on the floor after
that. The oral sex is done to completion, and even though this guy has
allegedly never been touched by a woman, he knows to warn her of his
insuing ejaculation. Listen carefully and you can hear him whisper "ok"
before Old (or Young) Faithful erupts. The kid gets my giggles goin'
again when he begins moaning *after* he's done being pleasured! "You
have a true talent, Laura" her girlfriend tells her. As the guy, Danny,
laughably contorts his face as he catches his breath. I didn't catch
the rest of the film, as the first six minutes were enough for me.
Though one porno actress in a field of thousands, Hart conveys an
interesting sexiness about her. The way she wiggles her butt and the
voice inflection on such lines as "Are you gonna (whistles), Danny?"
catch your attention. Her witch like laugh is a charmer as well, heh
heh. "Hehehehhehe, oh, Danny!".
