

This movie is so awful it's fantastic. It has everything -- a lead actor
who
moves his eyebrows up and down to convey strong emotion, unnecessary
(ludicrously unnecessary) nudity, idiotic death scenes (the best one is
when
Ricky shoots a car with a handgun and it flips over and explodes). Yeah,
that makes sense. Oh, and the script is outstanding. Watch for a provoked
Ricky saying, "Punish!!!" and "Garbage Day!"

If you get a chance to see this one, don't miss it. It's one of my
favorite
movies ever.
<|_=00=_|>
Silent Night Deadly Night 2 is the film version of those terrible recap
specials that come every couple seasons or so on a popular television
show. Comprised of recycled clips from previous episodes, these
specials usually are close to un-viewable. They take the best clips
from the series that most people have already seen and place them one
after another out of context, thus stripping them of any of the
original comedic value or suspense. Likewise, Silent Night Deadly Night
2 is mostly comprised of footage from its predecessor. In fact, over
forty-five minutes of the footage has been cribbed from the original.
This has never really been done in any movie before, and there's a good
reason for this, even beyond that these clips have to be viewed in
their original context to retain the same power. Most people watching
the sequel have already seen the first entry. No one wants to sit
through the same stuff over again. Sequels are supposed to continue the
story, not rehash it. This is why while the original Silent Night
Deadly Night is a personal favorite of mine, this film is possibly one
of the worst sequels of all time.

Silent Night Deadly Night 2 focuses on Ricky, the younger brother of
Billy who was the original "Santa Claus" killer from the original.
Ricky has followed in the path of his brother and become a serial
killer as well. Now detained, he recounts his story to a psychiatrist.
Cue footage from the first film, used in the form of flashbacks. Not
only is this boring, but it makes absolutely no sense at all. Ricky's
flashbacks date back to when he was less than a year old in some cases,
where it would be almost impossible to have any memory. In other
instances it is certainly impossible for him to remember several of the
flashbacks as many don't even involve him. The fact that Ricky has
memories of things that he was never a part of and would never have a
way of finding out, is just one of the many enormous plot-holes.

After about forty five minutes, Ricky begins recounting his personal
story of growing up. Thankfully the recycled footage ceases and the
audience is presented with something new. Unfortunately, it is insanely
stupid, venturing into so-bad-it's-good area half the time and just bad
area the other half. Despite not being old enough to have been
emotionally scarred by the same events that sent his older brother over
the edge, Ricky has also become a psychopath. The difference here is
that while his brother was set off by the sight of Santa Claus, Ricky
gets murderous tendencies whenever he sees the color red. When he sees
a red truck he subsequently murders the owner with it. When he sees a
red umbrella, he uses it to impale a gangster in what is possibly the
lamest death sequence ever. When he sees a red blanket, he nearly has a
heart attack. The problem with this is that it's virtually impossible
to avoid the color red on a daily basis, meaning young Ricky would have
heart attacks every time he got a test back graded with red marker. Not
to mention that this makes for a fairly pathetic serial killer. All you
have to do is put on a red t-shirt and he will probably wet himself
(although by the end he has inexplicably gotten over this fear and dons
a Santa suit).

In one mind-boggling sequence, Ricky takes his girlfriend to the movie
theatre to watch the original Silent Night Deadly Night. Keep in mind
this is a sequel to Silent Night Deadly Night that continues the exact
story from where it left off. Even Ricky has a "huh" moment as the film
starts and is revealed to be the first entry in the series. How can
Ricky, who was in the first film and has crystal clear memories of
events that occurred within it, go and watch the first film in a movie
theatre? Does this mean that Ricky is delusional and the events from
the original never happened? Or does this mean that Ricky has crossed
over out of the movie-universe and into the real world. No, all it
means is that the writers were probably snorting cocaine while they
typed out this script.

It doesn't go much lower than the movie theatre sequence, but there are
still plenty more examples of stupidity sprinkled throughout the rest
of the film. Eric Freeman's ridiculously over-the-top acting as Ricky,
accompanied by eyebrows that seem to bounce around his face like
they've been injected with acid, turn his "Garbage Day" rampage into a
laugh riot as he blows up cars with his pistol and shoots at people
taking out the trash. The scene has since become a viral video hit,
garnering hundreds of thousands of views on sites like Youtube. By the
end of the film the director seems to be trying to turn Ricky into some
sort of classic horror movie villain, as he is practically unfazed as
he is remedially shot in the chest. While this works for inhuman
villains such as Jason Voorhees, it makes absolutely no sense for Ricky
to be brushing off shots straight through his chest like they are bug
bites. Then the ending comes around and it truly is just plain
retarded.

Silent Night Deadly Night 2 could have been enjoyable in a
so-bad-it's-good way. There are certainly some instances that made me
laugh out loud. However, over half of the running time consists of
boring, recycled footage from the original Silent Night Deadly Night,
which makes it not worth the time to get to the "good" stuff. If Silent
Night Deadly Night was a nice, little Christmas gift, Silent Night
Deadly Night 2 is just huge lump of coal
<|_=00=_|>
I was told by a lot of people not to see this one because it is all
just flashbacks of the first one. While the first 35 minutes are
flashbacks, with the gore mostly cut out. The last hour or so is so
worth it!!. This movie is so freaking funny, I almost whizzed myself a
bunch of times. The first one is great, but it is not nearly as funny.
This is mostly due to the fact that Robert Brian Wilson shows no
emotion and takes himself too seriously in the role of Billy. He tries
to hard to be psycho. Eric Freeman who plays Ricky in #2 is hilarious
and makes the last hour spectacular. It is almost like he realizes how
corny this concept is and he just has fun with it. He does not take
himself seriously at all. His facial expressions and delivery of lines
are so over the top, it is great. Plus with line like "Garbage Day!"
are hilarious when you see him deliver it and then kill someone. All
though I have to say the funniest part is his girlfriend, when she
realizes he is going after her. All she can say is "Oh no!", with no
emotion in her voice or on her face. Just because of the last hour, I
have to say that this is a very worthy sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing anyone will admit when mentioning this movie is that it
is terrible. It is even admitted in the Anchor Bay DVD release that it
was mostly edited from the original to extend the video shelf-life of
the first film, which was also less than Citizen Kane. The new material
is acted with less talent than a grade school play, and those same
grade school children could have written the script were it not for the
not so child-like subject. The movie is merely an attempt to capitalize
on gore, nudity, and controversy. As such, if you haven't seen the
original in a while, this is a decent horror film. The slasher genre
makes no claims to being Oscar worthy, so don't expect it to be and
you'll be fine.If you go into this movie wanting to watch a badly made
gore-fest you won't be disappointed. I find the delivery of the line
"Garbage Day" makes this film one of my horror favorites despite the
fact I rate it 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. Eric Freeman is such
a bad actor it is laughable. the way he moves his eyebrows when he
talks is priceless. there is a scene in which Ricky is walking down the
street that is worth the rental fee or buying it. i don't want to spoil
it you have to see it for yourself. there are so many lines in this
movies that you will remember forever. Ricky is a character you will
never forget and is played brilliantly bad by Eric freeman. i don't
want to spoil all the funny scenes in this movie. 

the bottom line is Silent Night Deadly Night 2 is hilarious and if you
are in the mood for a funny cheesy 80's horror film this is perfect for
you. 10/10

<|_=00=_|>
It's a wonder that this first of four sequels to the 1984 cult classic
exists at all. The first film was picketed until it was pulled from
theatres, causing it to take a nosedive at the Box Office. But then
this was the 80s, the decade the VCR was invented, and so the
controversial horror film found a new life on video. It took three
years, but a sequel was given the greenlight and was released to
theatres instead of going straight to video like some of the later
sequels. However, this film isn't known for the same thing the original
is. Instead this sequel is famous because the first 40 minutes or so is
mostly footage from the original in the form of flashbacks. Boy talk
about low budget film-making. On the upside though, the rest of the
running time is all new footage featuring Ricky, the brother of the
first film's killer, instead of being a re-cut version of the first
film like originally planned.

Pros: Moves at a fast pace. The acting, though not great, isn't too
bad. It's fun to watch Eric Freeman chew the scenery("Garbage Day!"
lol). Some creative kills. Some intentionally/unintentionally funny
stuff. A good score, especially the main theme. And finally it's pretty
gutsy of the makers of the film to use so much footage from the first
film and adding around 40 minutes of new footage as a wraparound. You
gotta admire them for that.

Cons: Maybe they shouldn't have used as much footage from part 1 as
they did. There are a few minor continuity errors with the first film,
like Ricky's last name and who gave Billy his job for example. Some
mediocre acting, but thankfully it's from the actors in minor roles. No
suspense or anything new.

Final thoughts: This is in no way a great film. Instead it's one of
many so-bad-it's-good horror films of the 80s. It's deeply flawed, but
sometimes the faults add to the fun, which is true in this case. It's
also amazing that this was not the final nail in the coffin, for there
have been three more sequels since and talk of a possible remake of the
original.

My rating: 3/5
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't know this film actually was a re-cut of the original when I
begun watching it (remind me to check this site ALWAYS before renting a
film!) so my first thought was: shenanigans! The entire first half of
this "sequel" contains sequences  not even essentials ones  of the
1984 shocker, talked together as some sort of wraparound story by Ricky
Caldwell whose brother was responsible for the infamous Christmas
killing spree. The film then all of a sudden turns into a real sequel,
with a summary of Ricky's repertoire as a demented killer and finally
results in a grotesque 80's cheesefest where he chases a nun in a
wheelchair. I don't really know how to judge the wholesome but it sure
is fun. The acting skills of Eric Freeman (who plays Ricky) are bad
beyond comparison and there's absolutely no depth or tension to detect
in the screenplay. But on the other hand, I can't be too harsh because
the murder sequences are great! Someone gets stabbed to death with an
umbrella and Ricky even makes the eyes of his girlfriend's previous
lover blow (by the way, why are all the jocks in 80's horror movies
called Chip???). Silent Night, Deadly Night is a very stupid film.half
déjà vu and half ludicrous. But you might as well describe it as a
truly sweet horror treat for 80's fanatics. The sequences where nutball
Ricky wanders through the streets killing people randomly and laughing
ridiculously simply have to be seen to be believed. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Upon originally rental of Silent Night Deadly Night 2 a friend of mine
and I were warned by the video clerk (which caught both us off guard
since it's something that had never happened to either of us before and
hasn't happened since) not to rent it; that people said it was really
really bad. Needless to say we didn't heed her warning and rented SNDN
2. When we got the tape home we debated about even watching it. Maybe
the video clerk was right and we should save ourselves the agony / it
wasn't too late. Finally giving in (even mumbling through the FBI
warning)we prepared for 88 minutes of torture.

To her credit the video clerk was right ~ SNDN 2 was bad but it's
beautifully bad and it's tongue is so deep in it's cheek that it's pure
hilarity. Half of the movie a recap of the original SNDN (I had never
seen SNDN @ this time so it didn't bother me and still doesn't) The new
footage is 100% camp gold. Boom mics and movie crews (which have been
clean up on DVD) drop openly into shots. Eric Freeman's eyebrows and
nostrils chew up every frame they're in and his over the top delivery
makes brilliant catch phrases out of something as simple as 'RED CAR'
and 'GARABAGE DAY' (I still imitate him when putting out my trash.) W/
this one viewing this movie became a personal favourite and take it in
just about every Xmas since (and occasionally throughout the year / I
did originally see it in July)
<|_=00=_|>
Ricky(Eric Freeman), the brother of Billy(the killer from the first
film)is the psycho donning the Santa outfit..well, for a moment or
two..this time, explaining to a psychiatrist (James Newman, insisting
rudely that the security guard get out of the cell, to leave him alone
with a convicted killer!) what occurred to his brother years back. 

The film can't escape the fact that is practically an hour of the first
film, and then we get thirty or so minutes of Ricky killing people. The
most inventive kill comes when he attacks an animated vicious thug
bookie with an umbrella that opens after impaling him through the
stomach! He provides us with little snippets of his past while chatting
with Newman. We get a little understanding of a possible love-life with
Elizabeth Kaitan's Jennifer. There's a confrontation with Jennifer's
former boyfriend who is a smartass pig and his sexual slurs and
untoward remarks of Kaitan set off Ricky's trigger leading to the use
of jumper cables as a weapon! 

The most memorable scene, involving "garbage day", had built this film
towards a bad film reputation that became a YouTube sensation over 6
million to date have viewed. This is where Ricky goes on a shooting
rampage down a suburban street killing as many innocent people as his
gun allows him (taken from a dimbulb Barney Fife type he forces to
shoot himself in the forehead while the gun is in his own hand!). 

But his wielding an ax at a nun in a wheelchair (after taking off the
head of a snowman and demolishing a Santa toy on the sidewalk) might be
his most infamous attack. That she has the house number 666 and lasts
as long as she does further recognize just how bonkers the film is.
Freeman's face alone assures this film's status as a midnight cult item
will remain intact. 

Clearly the use of so much material from the first film, regardless of
Lee Harry's handcuffed dilemma in wanting to make his own but not
provided sufficient funding to do so, cannot be brushed aside. If the
footage was from an abandoned project, that's one thing, but this is
right from a whole film that was released into theaters (and did well
for the limited time it was shown). 

It's infamy cannot be denied, though, and Freeman's outrageous, manic
expressions (as if a roid freak ready to explode at any moment, even
going cross-eyed when choking a victim and snarling constantly) are
indeed an irresistible riot. This will never--I repeat, never--be a
critical darling. This series, quite frankly, isn't catering to
critics. But to slasher fans accustomed and hungry for unconventional
and crazed psycho fare, this sequel has its appeal. Even the new
footage has plenty of questionable (putting it mildly) decisions like
the use of another actor killing a boyfriend who nearly rapes his
girlfriend by driving over him multiple times with a jeep. The
psychiatrist interviewing Freeman doesn't have protections in place to
make sure a very dangerous criminal was kept from harming him. There's
never a reasonable explanation for how Freeman just waltzes out of the
sanitarium either, besides commotion on an audio tape the psychiatrist
was using to record the back story of the killer. Then the deformed
face (stroke they tell us) of the nun supposedly representing Lilyan
Chauvin, and how she looks absolutely nothing like her removes the
satisfaction of seeing her hunted by Freeman is muted because the two
actresses couldn't look or sound any different.

This isn't a good film by any stretch of the imagination, but I
consider myself a genuine reviewer and to deny its entertainment value
(its bad taste and lack of restraint in both the direction and
performance) would be an error on my part. Not a 5/10 in quality but as
a movie that tickles the funny bone and is just nuts, this qualifies.
<|_=00=_|>
I watch this one every Christmas. It features a pretty atypical
psychopath for the 80's canon in Eric Freeman. He's an intense-looking
and mask-free short fuse who at first glance could be either a ski
instructor or a paroled sex offender. His animated eyebrows are
hypnotic. This feels at once like a slapstick parody and a demented
sitcom (" Hey Mom! I'm Dating A Strangler!"). It even has the built-in
'Naughty!' and 'Garbarge Day!'catch phrases. The newer footage with the
killer's eye-bulging fits of rage toward any sort of social disruption
are more cartoonish and less focused on the childhood Santa trauma than
the scenes used from the previous entry. It's actually a shame that
more new footage featuring the emotionally-crippled Child-Hulk couldn't
be used in their place because their zaniness is so weirdly compelling.
The shooting spree through suburbia is broad daylight is priceless.
There isn't a single scene in the movie where he doesn't seem alien and
out of place. He's so completely ill-equipped to deal with life that
his reactions to both the public and the police make him almost
zen-like in his fearlessness.
