
Thank you all for your support of this wonderfully perverse piece of
classic entertainment! When Mickey Epps and I wrote the original
screenplay we never thought it would turn into a piece of movie
memorabilia. Sex comedies in the 80's will never return (that could be
good or bad), but nonetheless, playing video games topless or in your
underwear is now done in the privacy of the home and no longer in video
arcades. So, worry not, you naysayers of this pulchritudinous adventure
in film-making, you will not see a sequel to this movie. But because of
it, I'm sure you've created a number of memorable moments in your own
personal histories at various drive-ins and the back rows of the movie
theaters! Long live teen sex comedies... long live perverted,
out-of-work, over-aged, have nothing better to do writers... like
myself!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The dubious honors given this film are entirely justified. This is,
without question, among the most moronic comedies ever made. Quite
interesting as a time capsule of the early 1980s, however, and a real
gas for anyone who was a youngster at that time. The plot concerns a
popular video arcade in danger of being closed down by nogoodnik Joe
Don Baker. Who cares about that, though...

...you rented this to see boobs. 

Right? 

Singular boobs. Pairs of boobs. Sets, groups, and crowds of boobs.
Yes...JOYSTICKS is a veritable Wall of Boob, and while you're busy
boobing it up, you can also enjoy the most sophomoric humor ever be
offered up in a teen sex comedy. As an extra bonus, there's a gang of
comically over-the-top "punkers", the likes of which were commonplace
as guest villains on T.V. crime shows throughout the 80s(tri-color
frightwigs, bondage gear, lots of chains...yeah, you remember...)

Shamefully fun trash, if you don't mind hitting the kill-switch on your
brain for 90 minutes. Wakka Wakka Wakka.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so Joysticks is poorly made.  But I for one find it rather nostalgic.
This movie has something about it. Whether it's the fact that it takes place
in the summer (which gives it a relaxed feeling) or that it displays a
culture I never knew, I find this film totally addictive. I suppose it's
just that it's different from most comedy's you see today (they definately
don't make movies like they used to). Something like that could only happen
on film in the 80's.

Anyway, if you were around when all this was really going on, I really
reccommend you see this. Trust me, you'll love it!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe all the harsh reviews this movie gets. I think it's a
true work of deliciously dreadful 80's trash exploitation movie art
that totally nails the rampant hedonism and stupidity of adolescence
with uncanny accuracy. All the kids want to do in this film are play
video games or make out. They have no ambitions or aspirations towards
doing anything meaningful or significant with their lives. They just
wanna party and have fun. Come on, people, that's exactly what being a
teenager is all about! And boy does "Joysticks" peg this blithely
moronic mindset with spot-on incisiveness and authenticity. This movie
reaches its true moment of absolute cinematic greatness during the
legendary strip video sequence. When the camera pans down to show the
hot chick's ample breasts jiggling up and down in extreme eye-popping
close-up as she plays the video game those beauteous bouncing boobs
perform a majestic ballet that just screams "gleefully mindless sleazy
entertainment!" Yeah, the acting stinks, the plot's a paper-thin joke,
the humor is crude and sophomoric, the production values are strictly
rock bottom, and the 80's slang, clothes, and hairstyles now are
hopelessly dated and laughable at this point in time, but "Joysticks"
nonetheless reigns supreme as a genuine tacky no-brainer dreck artifact
of its era.
<|_=00=_|>

A beautiful majestic and taut thriller set against the backdrop of a
suburban video arcade. Joe Don Baker gives us a towering
performance  as the cliched angry parent wanting to shut the
arcade down. It's amazing that even now, 20 years later, the film
still inspires, still excites and still amazes even the most jaded
movie viewer. If there is a God, I know that even he must get a
smile on his face from  the pointless nudity and hours upon hours
of video game playing that this movie portrays with such raw
tenacity and such POWER! 10/10. Long live "Joysticks!"
<|_=00=_|>
I purchased this movie on VHS on a sellout day at a video shop that was
selling old movies... i think i payed $2. very original content, in the
same line as under the mountain (director Peter Jackson) or brain
dead... if you like this sort of thing then you will like this movie.
yeah its about a bunch of kids who love their arcade, and some old
idiots get their nephews to try to close down the video parlor. it
comes down to a head to head challenge on an arcade game to decide if
the video parlor will stay or be shut down... very funny looking at the
style of cloths they wore, and typical of that era their are the punks
and the squares
<|_=00=_|>
You either "Get it" or you don't. Of course when this film first hit
the theaters it was just a film about the current fads of the day. If
you were a kid going to arcades in the early to mid 80s this will be
very nostalgic. If games like "Zaxxon" or "Galaxian" don't mean
anything to you then this film will seem ridiculous. And to answer the
question, "were arcades really like this?"...Oh yeah, this portrays the
arcade "scene" in the early 80s pretty well.

This is a have fun, so bad it's funny movie. It could be thrown in with
the "sex-comedies" of the 80s- and there were a lot of them. I believe
this is coming out on DVD soon (Summer/Fall 2006).
<|_=00=_|>
A&E should have a "Making of Joysticks" biography. I'm sure it would be
hilarious. I can picture it now. The producers say: "Porkies is a big
hit and videogames are making millions a year. Can you write a script
that incorporates all of that to make money?" So the writers throw
everything in but the kitchen sink: Valley girls, punk rockers,
conservative villains looking to stop the fun, a pretty surfer hero, a
nerd named Eugene, a fat video game jock, hottubs in vans, screenshots
of classic video games. It's an 80's hottub time machine.

What makes this film even more fun is the magic it produces when some
viewers either get it, and laugh hilariously, or don't (such as my
wife) and say "This is so stupid" and walk off in disgust. It's like
Beavis and Butthead. Some get it, and some don't. That's the genius of
it. This film will be watched by historians a hundred years from now
when analyzing the destruction of American culture or perhaps what made
it great. Teens now are worried about starving to death the day they
hit the job market or think their "smartphones" make them smart. No. We
had it better back then. A lot better.
<|_=00=_|>
I love eighties movies of all kinds, yet I have been neglecting the
great eighties sex comedy for a while. I decided to finally catch up on
some of them, and I figured JOYSTICKS wasn't a bad place to start.

The local video arcade is the greatest hot spot in town for the teens,
but it's not too popular with the richest man in town. Can the
manager's grandson (who runs the place, since his grandfather is out of
town), his nerdy co-worker, and the arcade's gaming champion stop him
from shutting it down for good? 

Even if it's not the greatest, JOYSTICKS still manages to entertain
despite itself. It's your stereotypical eighties comedy, with lots of
sex jokes, boobs, and all the caricatures you'd expect to find (the fat
guy, the nerd, the suave guy, the punk, etc.). This kind of familiarity
gives JOYSTICKS a very comfortable feeling, like homemade cooking.

Fans of eighties nostalgia will have a lot to love as well, with a
classic soundtrack filled with cheesy tunes (including a title song),
as well as all (or at least most of) the arcade games you can remember.
The film does have its funny parts, and they're funny in the
"that's-so-stupid" kind of way.

However, for every funny part, there are at least two jokes that fall
flat on their face. This leads to some groan-worthy moments where you
wonder why they would even put a joke like that in the film. For one,
there's the rich guy's daughter, who they try to make funny by making
her voice squeaky and making every third word she says, "Like." There
are also the bumbling nephews who go into the arcade incognito with one
of them dressed in drag.

JOYSTICKS really isn't that great, but it provides for a fun night of
late twentieth century nostalgia. I'm being really generous by awarding
it a 7/10, but no one can deny how fun it is.

There are obviously better eighties comedies out there, but this one
will still entertain in a C.H.U.D. II: BUD THE C.H.U.D. kind of way.
<|_=00=_|>
"Joysticks," is a 1983 sex comedy that revisits the clich√©d theme of a
small youth led endeavor fighting against traditional older hierarchy.
The movie is essentially a "Porkys (1982)," knock-off. The cheesy
double entendre of the title is an immediate indicator of what this
film will deliver. J is a playful low budget romp touching on themes of
video games, puerile sex humor, and underdog status. The distinguishing
facets of this film have to do with the assumptions that the writers
and film makers make. Specifically, two premises directly influence how
such a playful but poor film was produced.

The reliance on currently popular slang and vulgarity is typical of
this sub-genre of film. The assumption that separates J from other teen
comedies involves what is allowed for humor. The writers seem to hold
that creating humorous situations is more important than what those
same situations may imply. Such an assumption leads to surface level
giggles that actually become uncomfortable cringes. For example, two
protagonist characters break into the antagonist's home to cause some
troubles. In the process, one of the protagonists inevitably falls into
the bed of the sedated wife of the antagonist. The wife begins
unconsciously groping the protagonist. At this point, the other
protagonist character encourages his friend to have sex with the
unconscious wife. The entire scene and exchange is meant to be humorous
due to an uncomfortable situation and silly opportunistic prodding. The
issue arises when the audience considers what would be the outcome if
the character in bed actually listened to his friend. Engaging in sex
with an unconscious stranger is rape. Of course, the film did not
intend to create a situation of cognitive dissonance; yet, the
adherence to a premise of creating humor regardless of consequence will
inevitably lead to ethically strained situations.

The second major assumption and premise follows from the first. The
direction of the film relies on the idea that low-brow humor and
moderate nudity make for an enjoyable film. This is not completely
fallacious. The problems arise when the audience is treated to a film
that only relies on sophomoric humor and nudity. The storyline,
production quality, film quality, acting, and character development are
almost completely neglected. The result is a clumsy vehicle for fart
jokes and youthful curves. J comes off as a film directed toward 13
year old males from 1983. Furthermore, J is almost exclusively enjoyed
today by the niche audience of males who were 13 years old in 1982.

Overall, this is a poor film. That it is a poor film was probably
recognized by all who took part in the project. The goal of creating a
substandard knock-off was accomplished. In fact, the film does have a
few quirky scenes that elicit the occasional chuckle. However, the
completed end product is highly dated 80's trash. J is only worth
pursuing if 80's American culture was formative in one's life.

On a personal note, the film did bring back fond memories for me. I am
slightly younger than the target audience, yet this was the type of
film that friends and I would try to get video store clerks to rent to
us. As to recommendations, I will more than likely do my part in
letting this film slip into utter obscurity. 3 of 10 stars.
