
Two repressed sisters run a bed and breakfast in old mansion-like motel
in the Louisiana swamps for passer-byes. A young man, Matt Rutledge
comes to stay, for a break from the fast city-life and at first glance
catches the eye of the younger sister, Lucy. Though soon, Matt realises
that Lucy and her older sister, Charlotte are hiding some sort of
secret from their past and this is the reason for Charlotte being so
overprotective towards Lucy. 

Oh, my beloved sister what have you done? Now why has this film gone
by terribly unnoticed? Hmm, it's hard actually to pinpoint. There's
just something highly enticing about this effectively minor southern
Gothic shocker. Shocker, might be too strong of a word, but chiller
fits snugly I guess. Honestly, I wasn't expecting anything of quality
or uniqueness. But it delivered. No doubts that the film's premise,
developments and actual surprises aren't anything we haven't seen
before, but because it's very well crafted by director Bill Condon. He
professionally constructs an unsettling air from the beautifully damp
backdrop and cooks up some stunning imagery.

You can't help but be drawn into this well-devised (if slow-grinding)
mystery that leads you along with its stylishly taut direction and
steamily uneasy scenery. I found it to get more and more involving upon
every occurrence that resulted in this psychological drama-packed tale.
Streaming through it is an erotic tone with tension boiling underneath
the lavish-looking surface, as people play each other off in a
complicated web of deceit and jealousy. Even a sprinkle of the hazy
supernatural makes its way in, but honestly the surprise twist to close
up shop puts a real spanner into the mix. It doesn't sit that well with
what has gone before it and actually dumb-down the whole build up.
Shaping up the classiness of the production is a bell-ringer of a
melancholy score by Richard Einhorn that was intoxicatedly lyrical in
its cues and Stephen M. Katz's wonderfully poignant camera-work gave it
a delicate touch. The cast were exceptional in their parts and had a
huge impact on the success. Eric Stoltz, Judy Ivey, Denis Lipscomb and
the breathtakingly ravishing Jennifer Jason Leigh definitely lead the
way with blindingly precise performances.

A fascinating, haunting little thriller that from the outset will just
eat you up.
<|_=00=_|>

Not to be confused with the TV show of the same name, Sister Sister the
movie is a Suspense Thriller! If you are expecting a comedy about twins
separated at birth make sure you read the DVD box and go pick something
else.

Set on the beautiful and mysterious bayou's of Louisiana. It follows
the relationship between two sisters who have to keep a awful secret
from childhood and what lengths they will go to, to keep that secret
under wraps.

Judith Ivy's performance as the older protective sister is stellar and
that goes the same for, screen chemistry between Eric Stolz and
Jennifer Jason Leigh.

Be prepared for twists and turns in this one. And a Paranormal touch
too.

If you watch it for anything watch it for the mystery and the stunning
dream sequences.

<|_=00=_|>

The director of this film, Bill Condon, later won a measure of acclaim for
directing Gods and Monsters.  His talent is already evident in this work
which takes a familiar story and makes it work through wonderful gothic
atmosphere and wonderful performances from Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judith
Ivey, and especially Eric Stoltz.  A nice combination of B-movie
conventions
with A-movie talent.
<|_=00=_|>
"Sister, Sister" is Bill Condon's first feature and possibly one of his
best. This delicious Southern Gothic fantasy involves two sisters
running a bed and breakfast in their Louisiana mansion. Terrible things
start happening when a group of new guests arrive and the sisters' dark
secrets start to come out. This reminds me of the types of horror films
Bette Davis/Joan Crawford/Olivia DeHavilland would have starred-in in
the 60s. I loved every minute of it. Jennifer Jason Leigh and
especially Judith Ivey are perfect in the lead roles. I have no idea
why this film is so underrated, but it's one of my favorite horror
movies from the decade of excess.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great Southern Gothic film, a genre we don't see enough
examples
of, especially of this caliber.  To the one who didn't like its
brutality,
all I have to say is, A) it's fairly subtle compared to many horror
films,
and B) What were you expecting? A Merchant Ivory Production. Plus, I
think
Bill Condon, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Judith Ivey all did wonderful
jobs -
elevating what could have been a by the numbers exploitation film into
something that's haunted me for years.
<|_=00=_|>
Willful and dominating Charlotte (a splendid portrayal by Judith Ivey)
and her more fragile and passive younger sister Lucy (a terrific
performance by Jennifer Jason Leigh) reside in a dreary mansion that
they have converted into a guest house in the Louisiana swamps. The
arrival of the handsome and enigmatic Matt Rutledge (a sound and
engaging Eric Stoltz) forces them to confront a dark secret from their
unfortunate past. Director Bill Condon, who also co-wrote the
engrossing script with Joel Cohen, relates the absorbing story at a
leisurely, yet hypnotic pace, does an expert job of crafting an
exquisitely brooding gloom-doom Southern Gothic atmosphere that seethes
with pent-up repression and thwarted passion, vividly evokes a dreamy
feeling of the remote bayou region, and tosses in a startling, but
effective supernatural element at the surprising conclusion. The
uniformly excellent acting from a bang-up cast holds everything
together: Ivey, Stoltz, and especially Leigh all do sterling work in
their roles, with sturdy support from Dennis Lipscomb as the suspicious
Sheriff Cleve Doucet and Benjamin Mouton as the smitten and possessive
Etienne LeViolette. As a sweet extra plus, the lovely Ms. Leigh bares
her yummy body in a couple of sizzling and sensuous soft-core sex
scenes as well as takes a steamy bath. Stephen M. Katz's
striking'n'stylish golden-hued cinematography and Richard Einhorn's
beautifully lush'n'lilting orchestral score both further enhance the
overall fine quality of this unjustly neglected little dilly.
<|_=00=_|>

Gothic bayou horror story about murder, revenge and the
voyeuristic/overprotective relationship of two sisters.  Excellent quality
for a TV movie.  Contains one somewhat steamy love scene which is unusually
revealing for television.
<|_=00=_|>
Two sisters (Judith Ivey and Jennifer Jason Leigh) turn their family
mansion in Louisiana into a guest house. One of their guests (a young
Eric Stoltz) is an aide to a congressman, and turns their lives inside
out. 

Director Bill Condon is interesting -- this was his debut film, but it
seems his career really blossomed in the 2000s with a string of hits:
"Kinsey" (2004), "Dreamgirls" (2006), "The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn
 Part 1" (2011) and "The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn  Part 2"
(2012). Humble beginnings?

I actually did not find this to be all that great of a film. The cast
helped it (Jennifer Leigh can do no wrong). But really, just not a film
I am eager to see again and that is all I have to say.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently was watching "Bad News Bears" with Vic Morrow, and realized
how much his daughter, Jennifer Jason Leigh, is now resembling him as
she approaches the age he was when he died. So I looked up one of her
older movies, just for fun viewing, and found this one on Netflix
streaming movies. 

It is set and filmed in an area I know well, the areas near swamps in
South Louisiana, including a couple of old plantation homes. One of the
actors, Ben Mouton, is even from Lafayette and attended USL, the same
college I attended a few years earlier.

The two Bonnard sisters live in an operate a B&B in the old plantation
home. There has always been rumors that ghosts live in the swamps and
people have disappeared with no trace.

The older sister, probably early 30s, is Judith Ivey as the
overprotective Charlotte Bonnard. Jennifer Jason Leigh is her sister,
perhaps 10 years younger, Lucy Bonnard. Lucy has apparently had some
emotional issues growing up and is still on medication. Charlotte
treats her more as a child than a sister.

One day a stranger, Eric Stoltz as Washington businessman Matt
Rutledge, shows up for his reservation to stay there a few days. It
isn't clear what he is doing there, and seems more than a bit
suspicious, especially when he begins to make moves towards Lucy.

This doesn't sit well, especially in the eyes of family friend and
handyman, Benjamin Mouton as Etienne LeViolette. (As an aside, being
from Lafayette, he is the only character that sounds like he is
actually from Louisiana, all the other accents are generic "southern"
accents that seem out of place.) 

A few strange things happen, the pet family dog turns up dead, before
the mystery is sorted out. 

This is an uneven movie at best, even though the core story has a lot
of possibilities. The script, the acting and the direction are mostly
bland, often ringing untrue, but Stoltz and Leigh do fine in their
roles. I enjoyed it mainly for the novelty of a movie set in my home
area, Southern Louisiana.

SPOILERS: When Charlotte was in high school her date was too aggressive
and tried to force himself onto her. When little sister Lucy witnessed
what was going on she found a rock and hit the guy on the head, who
then tried to rape Lucy. But Charlotte picked up a knife, stabbing him
to death. Afraid the two girls dragged the body to the edge of the
swamp and dumped him in, never to be found. A boy witnessed it, in the
nighttime shadows they thought it was their friend Etienne, but it in
fact was the guy's brother, now returning for revenge as Matt Rutledge.
<|_=00=_|>

This early Joel Cohen, sans Ethan, effort is passable. It features a
good southern goth feel and some fine performances from Judith Ivey and
Jennifer Jason Leight. It does rely too heavily on shock, rather than
fleshing out its plot, but still its pretty convincing stuff! There is
the requisite nudity and violence but at least this seems intune with
the settings and people, unlike some deliberately sleazy thrillers. The
repressed younger sister is understandably attracted to ahandsome
"stranger", and her older sis is of course jealous. this makes sense
and sets up a good twist with some nice nuances. Recommended especially
for fans of Leigh.

