

Looking for award winning acting? Then watch On the Waterfront or
something.
If you are looking for stylish post apocalyptic martial arts then you have
found the Holy Grail. B movie fare for sure, however so was Omega Man.
Defiantly worth a DVD rental or purchase if you are into Jean Claude (I
am).
Best line in the movie? AAAAAAAAAAGGGGHHHHHHHHH of
course............
<|_=00=_|>
I usually destroy van damme movies in my reviews, but strangely enough
this film by Albert Pyun is a classic and deserves recognition. I
thought the costumes which people seem to call them were very well
created and lots of thought went into every costume. I didn't see one
single flaw in the production. I thought the freehanded and airbrushed
visual of a deteriorating city at the opening credits was very creative
and interesting.

There's something different about this films footage, I cant tell if
its the kind of film they used but it seems very contrasty and almost
has a grainy kind of look to it but very hard to explain. You'll
recognize it as being unique when you see it. The chase scene where van
damme fights 2 pirates in a swamp and then gets captured is phenomenal.
The camera angles and shots were fantastic, and the crossbow
crucifiction only makes it sweeter! haha Van damme hits his acting
stride in this movie and really manages to convey the emotion in his
revenge. Especially the part where he chops down the cross with his
heel to escape his soon coming death.

The best asset in this movie is the well designed apocalypse city sets,
and the 2 story abandoned building set complete with pillaging pirates.
The music and whatever that cape brandishing maniac was saying was
outright terrible but if your not a jerk you'll understand why this
movie deserves an eight out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
the best "post-apocalyptic street fighter" movie ever. it's so bleak,
so raw, sadistic; rather cheesy, and yet it is not at all "campy". how
is this possible?? great acting, that's how. i mean great acting--given
the context. it's a unique film. the sets and costumes are great.
fender is a great villain. i was like 10 or 12 when i first saw this
and i still get chills thinking about fender. i've seen it 4 times but
not in a while now. i remember the dialogue being sparse, in fact i
remember long stretches that were rather silent, and yet i was rapt.
maybe the street fighter "blade runner"?? don't laugh, i'm serious. van
damme~ford. fender~roy batty. i can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Produced in the dying years of Cannon films, directed by Albert Pyun,
starring an early Van Damme claiming to be "the first hero of the 21st
century", claiming to be a "post apocalyptic battle" and with the title
"Cyborg", somehow I don't think it will bring many to a state of
disbelief when I announce that it's a very poor film. Cheap and tacky
in every area, unless you're a huge fan of Van Damme it really should
be avoided.

For Albert Pyun in the 80's and early 90's, a "post apocalyptic" movie
was just an excuse to avoid any expense for sets and have a bunch of
goons in ragged clothes running around large areas of open land or
empty buildings. The "post apocalyptic" world Cyborg takes place in was
filmed in North Carolina and looks likeuhNorth Carolina. 

There is action, but it's all rather dull and extremely forgettable and
the overly dramatic musical score which accompanies it is extremely
irritating. Plus there's no buildup to them, just randomly thrown
together which throws away any excitement they may have had. On the
plus side, the fights aren't half as bad as those I've seen in later
Albert Pyun movies but Van Damme has done a lot better.

As far as acting goes, you'll get zero. Not that you'd expect award
winning performances in a movie like this, but still, Van Damme has
absolutely minimal dialogue and could pass off for somebody who doesn't
speak any English simply being told to speak his lines phonetically. He
is that poor, but at least it's evidence enough that he has tried in
later movies. I do find many of his movies entertaining, this isn't one
of them. The villains are the complete opposite, and they overact and
make embarrassing howling and screaming when fighting Van Damme without
being remotely scary in the least. Although it certainly doesn't say
much for the state of humanity if the world was to be under threat for
a second from these clowns!

The post apocalyptic genre is generally one of the weakest in the field
of B-movies with the likes of Steel Frontier being one of the few
exceptions and this is just about as poor as it gets. Not good enough
to be worth watching or not even bad enough to be funny. At best it's
tedious and dull so unless you're a huge fan of Van Damme I recommend
you to stay away. On the plus side, it remains the best film by schlock
director Albert Pyun I've seen to date but that's probably even more of
a reason to avoid it than anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
A must see of the 80's. I can Guarantee you will not be bored.

Although a movie with a seemingly flawed story line and an experimental
80s camera work combined with below par acting should have been an
absolute disaster, a complete waste of good film Reel.

But surprising it worked, this movies defied all the laws of Film
making which is very simple the basics are good acting, directing,
locations, sets, creativity and most importantly a Story to make a
basic movie but to make a great movie you do need imagination, and
somehow they had plenty of that plus a Cyborgs and they did it. 

Who would have thought all that was wrong will become just the the
right ingredient to make it one of the best movies of the 80s.

A true cult classic.
<|_=00=_|>

(Spoilers ahead)

Well, I can't endure the people who complain for the plot or the acting or
the sets. Did you forget it's a JCVD film? Did you expect him to do
Shakespeare? Come on, the only reason to see him (and the only thing he can
do) is to watch him kick @$$!! And boy he does. And the baddies, I loved
them, especially Fender. The guy (especially at the end) looks not crazy,
but possessed!! And the eyes (fist movie to show a black character with
white
blue eyes), not only look cool, they look evil!! Some point out, correctly,
that he can't possibly see through his crud covered shades, especially in
the dark. Well, here's the thing, I don't think he sees at all!! My theory
is he went blind (maybe for wearing those shades in the dark) and hence the
white bue eyes. How he knows his surroundings? Well, maybe he uses the
Force, ever thought of that?

I just know that if I even bump into him (or a look alike) in a dark alley,
I would drop dead on the spot from a heart attack, and crap my
underwear.
<|_=00=_|>
Cyborg starts in plague ridden post apocalyptic 'New York City In The
Future' where martial arts expert for hire Gibson Rickenbacker
(Jean-Claude Van Damme) rescues & then promptly loses again a cyborg
woman named Pearl Prophet (Dayle Haddon) to a marauding gang of bandits
lead by Fender Tremolo (Vincent Klyn), Pearl claims she has been sent
by a group of doctors to gather vital information about a cure for the
plague & it is imperative for humanity that she returns safely with
that information. A woman named Nady (Deborah Richter) convinces Gibson
to rescue Pearl & potentially help save the human race from
extinction...

Directed by Albert Pyun Cyborg was his breakthrough film, he has since
gone on to make dozens of awful sci-fi horror type films & is probably
one of the worst genre director's ever right down there with Jim
Wynorski & Jesus 'I have no talent' Franco. One of the first things
that stands out about Cyborg is that it stars a young looking JCVD,
while this was released the same year as Kickboxer (1989) it was that
film which basically made JCVD a star & not Cyborg so I guess that's
one less thing to hate it for. The script by Kitty Chalmers is a sort
of post apocalyptic action film that takes itself very seriously & is
almost totally devoid of any sort of meaningful story. Cyborg is one of
the most threadbare excuses of a film I've seen in a while, the story
revolves around the whole clichéd post apocalyptic scenario where the
world is in ruins, there are few survivors, there are large groups of
bandits & scavengers who kill & steal & of course there's the lone
hero, the man who does what's right in a world gone to hell & yes
you've guessed it he has even suffered from some kind of personal loss!
Wow, I'm not being funny here but Cyborg leaves no post apocalyptic
clichéd unused, from abandoned buildings, run down towns, dirty
futuristic costumes & one mans fight against evil. We've seen it all
before & done much, much better. Just watch one of the Mad Max trilogy
as they are all far superior to this, the character's are poor with
little or no motivation or background, there's barely any dialogue in
it & what little story it tries to tell is shown through a collection
of badly edited flashbacks littered throughout the film's scant 80 odd
minute duration & even at only 80 minutes it felt much longer which is
not a good sign.

Director Pyun has made a career from making low budget crap & guess
what? Cyborg pretty much proves he started out making low budget crap
because it's, well, low budget crap (the weapon of choice in the future
is a paint-ball gun!). All the sets look really cheap, the locations
don't look post apocalyptic either, they look exactly like what they
are an abandoned factory, some woods & a rundown building! The action
scenes are not that great, the editing is very choppy although I
suspect that many of the more violent scenes were cut & according to
the IMDb's 'Alternate Versions' section for Cyborg that appears to be
very much the case. The special effects aren't too bad, there's some OK
matte paintings & some alright cyborg robotics effects as well. Cyborg
was the film which finally bankrupt the infamous Cannon Films run by
Yoram Globus & Menahem Golan as it was their last theatrically released
film. Apparently Cyborg was written with the intent to use the sets &
costumes that had been made for the planned Masters of the Universe
(1987) sequel & a live-action Spider-Man film which were both canned
after Cannon Films suffered financial problems & Cyborg was written &
made to utilise the money already spent.

With a supposed budget of about $1,800,000 Cyborg looks really cheap on
too many occasions, it's competent but pretty bland & lifeless. The
acting isn't up to much not that anyone is given much to do because of
the very sparse script, JCVD is no better or worse than usual, Vincent
Klyn who was apparently recognised as one of the worlds best surfers in
the 80's has gone on to appear in eleven other Albert Pyun films which
says how much of a career he has had since this.

Cyborg is an average post apocalyptic action film, it's watchable on a
dumb level & there are one or two good moments but the story is so poor
& the set-pieces aren't that great so overall I didn't hate it but I
didn't really like it either. Followed by the unconnected Cyborg 2
(1993) & Cyborg 3: The Recycler (1994).
<|_=00=_|>
I like Van Damme, but this movie really stinks! It tries so hard to be
a mix of Mad Max and Highlander with a pinch of The Terminator, but
throwing in some characters taken from that Michael Jackson's video
called "Thriller" with obvious paintings in the background.

The only redeeming feature is the roundhouse kicks in slow motion...
Even the fights are pathetic, with stupid overuse of knives while they
have big guns hanging on their backs. Oh, and guess what? The movie is
called Cyborg but Van Damme is not a cyborg, nor his opponents! The
only "cyborg" here is a second line woman who actually does not behave
as a cyborg at all. She is just a woman with some kind of electronic
implant in her head, an implant that wasn't even necessary to begin
with. She could have had a device in her pocket and it would have been
the same. The title for this should be "Zombies" since most of the
characters look and act like that.

More about women... The Van Damme's buddy is an ugly whiny woman I
hated from the start. I found myself cheering the moments she seemed to
be killed. I didn't hate her because she was ugly, but because she was
annoying as hell. Not even her gratuitous nudity is enjoyable. And what
about that girl who is supposed to be Van Damme's step-daughter? She is
about 12 in the flashbacks but later she is in her 20's and Van Damme
looks exactly the same! What the hell? Van Damme doesn't age in the
movie or what?

You will enjoy this movie only if you take it as a comedy. In any case,
it is quite boring and slow with almost no dialogue. Oh! And be
prepared for the tons of synthesized music that screams 80's and makes
the movie instantly outdated!
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the first movies of Albert Pyun , who is considered by
many (including me) as one of the worst movie directors in history of
cinema . After watching "Cyborg" it's not hard to understand why. It's
also not hard to understand why Cannon films bankrupted. 

The movie is called "Cyborg " despite the fact it has nothing to do
with the story . Yes , there is one cyborg in this movie , but you
could easily replace it with a human with data on CD and the movie
would work the same way . Anyway , this movie seems to be inspired by
"Mad Max" , "Terminator" , "Blade runner" and "Highlander" . I
recommend for you to watch them instead of Pyun's "masterpiece".
Interesting thing  "Cyborg" is not set in the Blade Runner universe ,
but one of the characters makes a reference by saying "we have a skin
job".

This is an earlier Van Damme effort  I think he's incredibly lucky
that after making this piece of (censored) he STILL was able to become
a star. I do like some of his movies ("Bloodsport" , "Kickboxer " ,
"Nowhere to run"), so you can't say I'm criticizing "Cyborg" for the
fact it's Van Damme movie .

"Cyborg" fails mainly because of two things  screenplay and direction.
The story written by Kitty Chambers (is that a real name ?!) is thin .
All the characters seem to be named after guitars (LOL) ! I've already
told you about the pointless title of the movie. There is one HUGE
mistake in continuity  there's an incredible age difference between
two characters just because the movie wants to shock audience with a
twist . In the end "twist" is predictable and illogical. The movie
never really bothers to describe us the universe in which the whole
story is happening . All the characters are one-dimensional and
unlikable. The movie makes a few feeble attempts at humanizing the
characters, but it's a fruitless effort. Not to mention the dialogue is
either cheesy or uninteresting. 

The funniest thing is the whole movie could be a decent popcorn flick ,
but Pyun directs it as if he was making "Seven samurai" or something
(LOL) . "Cyborg" is far more than campy , it's INCREDIBLY CAMPY because
it's so pretentious . In Pyun's vision Van Damme's hero is a new Jesus
/ Messiah. There are many crosses in this movie and a crucifixion (LOL)
. My favourite scene is the one with the weeding cake  so touching 
Pyun tries to make his movie stylish and exciting , but fails.

The sets look like crap and the whole film reeks of low budget . At
first it was supposed to be a sequel to "Masters of universe " with
Dolph Lundgren , but something went wrong and they decided to use the
sets to make "Cyborg".

The acting is tragedy . EVERYBODY gives an awful performance , but the
special mention goes to the "actor" who plays the villain . He looks
laughable with his blue eyes , sunglasses and handsome face . Not to
mention his growling voice and the way he overreacts the cheesiest
lines of dialogue And why the hell is he screaming and grunting so
many times ?! One of the worst performances I've seen EVER.

The good things ? I think the fight scenes (very often in slow motion)
are actually OK. Unfortunately , without interesting characters, good
acting, and a focused energy this movie is a complete disaster. A
strong contender for the list of worst movies ever made . I give it
1/10. If you're a Van Damme fan and you want to see him in a decent
sci-fi movie you should watch "Timecop".
<|_=00=_|>
Prior to this movie's release back in the day, I can still vividly
recall the trailer showing up in the mix of many a television advert,
and truth to tell, every time I watched the trailer, I just needed to
see this film.

As many films of this kind, the theatrical release was severely short
lived, that being said, when this movie made it's bow on video, I
practically sprinted to my local video store to hire it, now back in
1989 I had just turned eighteen, and I had just developed a fixation
for any movie that had anything remotely involving kick boxing or
martial arts of any description.

As the years have passed, such a fixation has since passed, but my
enjoyment for this movie has never waned, it was at that time my first
experience of a JCVD movie as well as movie being directed by the much
maligned Albert Pyun.

Having practically watched everything that Messrs Van Damme & Pyun have
made throughout their careers since, for me personally, this movie is
the pinnacle of both their collective talents, granted Van Damme was
just starting out, the only worthwhile film I seen him in since was the
very cool 'Wake Of Death' and as for Albert Pyun, his career has really
been more hit than miss, and going by his IMDb web page, littered with
just a little too much controversy.

That aside, collectively, the whole show on display here rocks, granted
the whole premise revolves around redemption and revenge in equal
measure, Van Damme's lack of understanding in the English department,
Pyun's visual eye more than compensates, plus he really does
choreograph a good fight scene.

I read somewhere many years ago, that if Pyun had got his way, his
vision of Cyborg would have been that of a black and white rock opera,
now as he was at that time under the wing of Messrs Golan & Globus at
Cannon Pictures, such a thing was never going to happen, especially as
they were experiencing money problems, so a huge sigh of relief for all
concerned.

As the years have rolled by, this movie hasn't aged one little bit, and
any time I find it lurking in the television schedules, I always recall
that first time I watched the trailer, the excitement, the hope that
this was going to be something more than just another action movie....

Simply put, back then and to this day, this is a super cool action
movie, plus Vince Klyn for all his over the top antics makes one
helluva screen villain.

10/10
