

This film, is without a shadow of a doubt, one of finest, most imaginative
comedy horror films ever made.  Raimi, has put all the aspects of the film
together in masterful fashion.  The camera work and sound effects are
pulsating, and the timing is perfection.  And in Bruce Campbell, the film
as
a lead actor who gives an exceptional performance.  Campbell plays "Ash",
an
everyday, supermarket attendant who suddenly finds himself thrown into the
unusual situation of having to defend himself against, zombies, evil
spirits
and even his own possessed hand, just in order to survive the
night.
I laughed, I gasped, and I gripped the arm of my chair
throughout!
If you like your comedies, black and hilarious, and your horror, gory and
sensational, then look no further.  Raimi has created the definitive
comedy
horror!  Fantastic!

<|_=00=_|>
"The Exorcist" made you feel respect and fear to the Devil. Sam Raimi's
"Evil Dead II" makes fun of the Devil and demon possession. Although
there are some really scary scenes, there are some really twisted funny
situations that would leave you wondering "what the f*** just
happened?!". The movie is funny for the wrong reasons. I eventually
don't laugh about when a man is breaking himself dishes on the head. I
don't think it's funny when a man is repeatedly beaten up by grotesque
characters. I would never imagine a man getting eaten by a demon locked
under a cellar and throwing gallons of blood! "Evil Dead II" makes it
look hilarious in a wicked kind of way. For example, when Linda's head
tells Ash that "she is being tormented, and suffering in hell; you can
feel a little scared but the next scene has a corpse without a head
holding a chainsaw. There's no time for logic here, just sit and enjoy!

It also has the ability to make you feel tense and I must say, scared.
The combination of demon possessed people, EVIL sounds (I love the
weird noise in the movie), wicked laughs and chanting ("dead by
dawn!"), and intrepid camera angles are the perfect ingredients to make
a sui generis Horror-Comedy movie. Watch out for the "A Farewell to
Arms" joke, the whole situation with the evil hand, and the eye that
gets in a woman's mouth!.

Sam Raimi went too far for the good reasons. He created an unbelievable
and unforgettable work that has served as inspiration for many movies
in recent years. The movie is easily one of the most visually stunning
Horror movies of all time, for sure. Die hard fans of gore get an eye
candy for an hour and a half. Raimi created a cult movie in all the
sense of the world. "Groovy!". "Dead by Dawn" will never bore you
because in every scene there's a feeling of uncertainty and that makes
it even more interesting. There are no rules here. 

The plot is as scary as you can imagine but it's held in such a way
that it isn't taken very seriously. I mean, demon possession caused by
the Necronomicon is something that happens in the real world. Not
exactly with that book but it can happen via satanic books and rituals.
Raimi takes it to a different level of humor mixed with gore. 

Bruce Campbell deserves a special mention. He delivers a wicked, solid,
and totally believable performance. Something you haven't seen before
mainly because of the strange situations he goes through. His
performance could be described as a "solo". Easily, one of the best
performances of any actor in a Horror movie. Also, one of the
characters that suffers the most in any movie! Ash is beaten up by
demons, humans, objects, etc. Even possessed creatures make fun of him. 

The gore here is great, glorious. You get decaps, mutilated bodies, a
hand cut off, bleeding demons, etc. Blood spread all over the cabin is
the common denominator. One of the goriest movies of all time. 

Watch "Evil Dead II" to witness one of the most creative, brave, and
goriest movies of all time. It delivers something for everyone. It has
action, gore, spectacular camera angles, and some action! Check out Ash
V.S. possessed Henrietta. * After it, phrases like "join us!", "swallow
this!", and specially "groovy!" will be part of your daily vocabulary. 

Recommended for every Horror fan in the world. This movie is an
obligation to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Evil Dead II: Dead by Dawn is the sequel to the ultimate experience in
grueling terror. Evil Dead II is the definitive cult flick and perhaps
my favorite horror film (top five at least). Bruce Campbell takes on
the role of Ash once again in this hilariously horrific sequel to a
legendary movie. Few sequels live up to the original and fewer still
surpass it. This is one of those rare instances. This movie is out of
this world. Sam Raimi is a genius with a camera and has gone on to
create some damn fine films. He deserves every amount of success he has
gained. The script is inventive, highly original, and funny as all
hell. It's a mix of horror, laughs, and gore; or splatstick as Campbell
calls it. Once again, Campbell's facial expressions alone are worth the
price of admission. If that doesn't get you the laughing deer head
will. Evil Dead II: Dead By Dawn is a true horror masterpiece. A
completely original concept, some screwy camera angles, and one Bruce
Campbell make for an entertaining combination. If you don't like it,
"I'll swallow your soul, I'll swallow your soul."
<|_=00=_|>
Nonstop fun as a group of people are trapped overnight in a remote
cabin and tormented by the evil dead. 

Not really a sequel to "The Evil Dead"--more of a remake. Director Sam
Raimi expected this to be R rated and figured most people never saw the
unrated (meaning it was X) first one. So, he decided to just redo the
movie--just quicker, less gorier and with STRONG doses of comedy (the
first one was dead serious). He did it, cut some gore but it was STILL
unrated. So it was released (with the gore never put back in) and, like
the first, didn't do too well. And, like the first, it quickly acquired
a following and is now considered a great movie!

Basically once the movie gets going it never stops. It's more a comedy
than a horror movie--a very SICK comedy! Hands are cut off, eyeballs go
flying, BUCKETS of blood are thrown around, knives and axes are used,
etc. If you go expecting a horror film, you'll be disappointed. If you
approach it as a sick comedy you'll love it! I recommend this highly
but only if you have a strong stomach!

The sequence with Ash (Bruce Campbell) and his possessed hand is a
horrific and comedic highlight. Cool ending too.
<|_=00=_|>

Evil Dead II (1987) After the huge success of the first film, Sam Raimi and

Bruce Campbell reunite for this Quasi-Remake/Sequel.  Ash and his lady

are off on a nice trip through the woods.  They stop off and rest inside an

old cabin.  Does Ash realize that he's been here before, or hasn't he? 
Raimi 
and company (armed with a bigger budget and over the top special
effects)
bring us the second installment of the Evil Dead series.  This film focuses

more on black humor and camp instead of shock and horror.  Technically

this film is far superior to the one that was release a few years back and
in 
many ways it's a better film.

What a better way to spend the night?  Watch Evil Dead II with some of

your friends and let the party begin!  Leave all logic at the door. 

Remember, this is a movie, and a fun one at that.

Highly recommended!

A++
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the few horror movies I truly enjoyed, because the film
offers a great combination of horror and comedy. It adds up to a very
entertaining 85 minutes.

There's a lot to like in this kinda-goofy movie: nice visuals; good
humor to counteract the scariness and gore of a horror story; a small
amount of ridiculous theology compare to what usually is offered in
this genre, and some totally outrageous scenes. They include a woman's
head loose and then biting a man's hand with the rest of her body
running around with a chainsaw; a hand with a mind of it's own,
monster-type grandma and grandpa in the cellar, chase scenes through a
forest with trees coming to life and attacking people, on and
on....wild, wild stuff.

My main complaint is not enough lulls. There is too much action, and
it's so intense it's almost too much to watch in one continuous sitting
even with its fairly short length. One needs a break once in a while!

There is no credibility in here, but that's okay since I think most of
this is played for laughs more than horror. Bruce Campell suffers
physical damage that would have killed a person many times but within
seconds, he's back to normal. Campell, by the way, must have set the
all-time record for making rubber-faced wild faces in a movie, more
than Jim Carrey. However, this movie certainly isn't one to be
scrutinized for realism. You have to look at it, with all the gory
scenes and shocking violence as not much more than just tongue-in-cheek
satire on horror movies. It's great fun.
<|_=00=_|>
... in the evil dead series. From the very beginning I couldn't stop
smiling... every time I saw Bruce Campbell i laughed and every time
there was a fight I chuckled. It is an extremely fun movie with a no
mercy attitude. Sam Raimi perfects his shaky cam shots and first
persons and makes for the most enjoyable experience in a long time. The
plot is sturdy (identical to Evil Dead) and the technology is painful
(purposefully). The movie moves leisurely from event to event. The
supporting cast are stupid and bring more trouble to the film (a much
needed element) and the best part is, the carnage starts 5 minutes into
the movie. A no-think great movie, possibly the best movie the horror
genre has turned out in the last 20 years.
<|_=00=_|>
Having lost his girlfriend to the undead, Ash is forced to face the
possessed corpse of his former lover Linda and cut her up with a
chainsaw to stop him becoming her victim. However the demons in the
cabin are not that easy to stop and soon his hand has become possessed
as well. While he battles to stop his hand killing him, a group of four
young people are heading to the cabin in seek of shelter for the night,
only to find themselves trapped in the same fight as Ash as barely
managed to survive thus far.

Despite that fact that Sam Raimi is now a "proper" director making
summer blockbusters like his life depended on it, it is still
heartening to see that his frenzied style is still present in his work,
albeit it not dealing with such extreme material as that which made his
name famous decades ago. While Evil Dead II may be a complete repeat of
Evil Dead in terms of the basic narrative and content, it is still
worth seeing because of Raimi's skill as director and writer of the
film. In the UK Evil Dead earned notoriety for being one of the "video
nasties" that the BBFC took such objection to and, in doing so,
probably greatly boosted its cult appeal here, and to rerun this film
is not a major problem because it does have enough energy and good
qualities going for it to be worth a watch if you're into your horror.

However horror fans may find it a little tame by modern standards
although I still found it to be pretty scary and gory  certainly
considering it was made almost 20 years ago with a budget that would
barely buy you an A-listed movie star these days. The film is also
pretty funny and is full of dark humour and comic moments that make it
more entertaining than a gory b-movie has any right being. But here's
the thing, the success of this film and indeed the whole trilogy, is
mainly due to two people  Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell. Raimi drives
everything with his unique direction that places the action somewhere
between a horror and a cartoon. It has great camera work, frantic shots
and a real flair for the unreal; it is very hard to describe but it can
be seen it many of his films.

Campbell's ongoing cult status has only been helped recently by Bubba
Ho-tep but this is where it basically began and part II only sees his
continue his good work as Ash becomes more of a hero than he was in the
first film. He still has the cowardly quality that I loved in Ash but
now has weapons and kiss-off lines to compliment his new status. As
before his performance perfectly matches Raimi's direction and I can
totally understand why the two have kept their close relationship
decades later  they really seem to "get" each other here. Support from
Berry, Hicks, DePaiva, Domeier and Bixler is just about passable for
this type of b-movie stuff but really the cast is dominated by Campbell
playing his best character to date.

Overall this is a gory, cheap horror movie that won't appeal to
everybody but to those that get it, it will be a hugely enjoyable, gory
film with a great sense of humour. Director Raimi and actor Campbell
truly make the film work better than the material would suggest it
should and, on the basis of any of the three films, it is no wonder
that this is such a timeless cult horror.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is equal to the original Evil Dead, here we have ASH the
lone survivor from the first encounter with the evil dead, fighting off
the deadites yet again. ASH encounters some unexpected guests and now
everyone must fight for the lives, or become the evil that hunts them.

Sam Raimi does an excellent job of keeping us scared in a cabin in the
middle of nowhere, with the dead surrounding us. When ASH is alone in
the cabin, we are alone in the cabin and every creaking sound we hear
feels like it's right beside us. The eery feeling is not as terrifying
as the original, because the original was a punch in the face of
terror. This one is more of a drench you in the face with blood,
instead of a punch. The touch of dark comedy is great. ASH versus his
hand is some comic gold and is a great way to give you some breathing
room when you're not terrified of what might happen next.

The script of course is just one guy in a cabin against the dead, but
what makes it different is the great one-liners "Swallow This",
"Groovy". The movie showcases other characters that hold no emotional
value to the viewer what so ever. You don't even feel sorry for the
hillbilly who gets stabbed, slammed by the door, kicked, yelled at,
while still being stabbed mind you, dragged and then finally something
unknown happens to him under the cellar, but it involves gallons upon
gallons of blood.

The ending to this film sets up the third installment ARMY OF DARKNESS,
which is a total turn around from the first two. The cameo of FREDDY'S
glove is a classic nod to Craven's work...or a diss, however you look
at it. The whole idea of an evil unknown force underneath you in a
cellar is scary enough, not to mention the fact that we have to go down
there with our hero, who's armed with trademark boomstick and chainsaw.

This film holds one of my all time favourite scenes. Can you guess it,
it's when Ash "saws" off his own hand with a psycho laugh, while blood
splatters across his face and his laugh slowly grows into agony and
screaming. If you love blood, dark comedy, great directing, classic B
movie acting, one-liners and want to be scared ****less, then check
this movie out, as well as the original.

This is what horror is all about, the gore, the atmosphere, the EVIL
DEAD
<|_=00=_|>
While the original EVIL DEAD was genuinely a horror film, this one went
completely the opposite direction and decided to amp up the gore factor
to make it basically a demented cartoon show. EVIL DEAD 2: DEAD BY DAWN
is really a re-telling of the same events from the first story, but in
this case, only Ash and Linda (Bruce Campbell and Denise Bexler) come
to the cabin and less than 10 minutes into the movie he has played a
recording from a professor who mouths the infamous lines from the
Necronomicon and unwittingly brought his girlfriend to an untimely
death, though she herself becomes re-animated and returns to torment
him as a severed head and a body with a chainsaw in its hands who
unwittingly slices itself in two.

And this is only the beginning of a movie that will not let down the
zaniness, as the professor's daughter makes an appearance with her
partner and two locals and get sucked into the madness that ensues.
Raimi uses a hyper-kinetic editing to make the essentially silly story
even sillier -- the POV of an eyeball flying into the screaming mouth
of a woman is a (pun intended) scream -- and distorting the dead into
stop-motion figurines only adds to the lunacy. Looney Tunes gone
berserk (even the furniture becomes possessed), not precisely
frightening, but swiftly paced and with great use of Bruce Campbell's
over-the-top acting and slapstick humor. Hilarious, entertaining stuff.
