

THE WIZ is a bad movie. It is a very bad movie. It is an extremely very
bad movie. 

To watch it is to be infuriated by just how much potential it has and
how far it falls from even vaguely achieving success. A black, urban
version of "The Wizard of Oz" is an intriguing idea. The musical score
is okay and at least three of the songs are better than average. The
budget was obviously substantial and a lot of effort was put into
transforming New York City into Munchkinland, the Emerald City and
points in between. But rather than being in awe of the spectacle, one
is more likely to stare in disbelief and ask "What were they thinking?" 

Sidney Lumet, a fine director noted for making small, dark and often
depressing dramas (12 ANGRY MEN, FAIL-SAFE, THE PAWNBROKER, etc.),
seems ill-prepared to make a big budget musical based on a series of
children's books -- and, unfortunately, he proves it. I don't think he
makes a single intelligent directorial decision in this entire film:
the lighting is gloomy, camera placement consistently ineffective and
the editing clumsy. His choice of soft, grainy imagery over crisp,
clear pictures makes the atmosphere oppressive. The set design, art
direction and costuming, while impressive, still look numbingly cheap
and tawdry. Scenes filmed on location at New York landmarks look like
they take place on cramped soundstages. The film is just plain ugly to
watch. 

Worse, Lumet seems to have directed the actors to perform in a soap
opera style that is embarrassingly overwrought: the prevailing mood is
of whining self-pity. Michael Jackson, Nipsey Russell and Ted Ross get
in a few good moments as The Scarecrow, The Tin Woodsman and The
Cowardly Lion, but there is not a single honest moment to be found in
the performance by Diana Ross. To accommodate Ross, six-year-old
Dorothy from the book (played as 13 by 16-year-old Judy Garland in THE
WIZARD OF OZ), now is a 24-year-old Harlem kindergarten teacher. At
34-years-old, Ross looks more like she is pushing 50, yet displays the
emotional maturity of a three-year-old.

Ross' miscasting is legendary, but her inappropriateness for the role
pales in comparison to her actual performance. In rewriting the story
for Ross, Joel Schumacher's screenplay changes Dorothy from being a
winsome, wide-eyed child to an emotionally unstable adult. In Ross'
dubious hands the character seems both mentally and emotionally
retarded, yet she somehow manages to avoid making the character in any
way sympathetic. Strident, always on the verge of hysterics, it is,
simply put, one of the all time worst screen performances. 

Richard Pryor fares little better. Instead of the lovable charlatan
played by Frank Morgan in the 1939 version of the story, the Wizard is
now a cowering little fraud, devoid of wit or charm. Why hire Pryor,
known for his bravado and cocky attitude, then make him play against
type? The filmmakers decided that this Wizard did not just have to be
exposed as an illusion, but had to be humiliated and degraded as well.
The scenes where Dorothy confronts and belittles The Wiz illustrate the
mean-spirited cruelty that permeates the entire film. 

The most curious aspect of THE WIZ is trying to decipher just who it
was intended for. Obviously, the material was meant to appeal to
children, thus it's strangely inappropriate "G" rating; yet the
mystical, magical land of good and evil from earlier versions is
transformed into a foreboding world of terror and despair. Oz seems to
be an extended slum, populated by the homeless, vandals, hookers,
bookies, druggies, various street people and gangs; while the Emerald
City is a superficial place for shallow, pretentious phonies. While the
tone of the film is juvenile -- almost infantile -- it all takes place
in a seedy adult world that is almost prurient.

THE WIZ doesn't just avoid childlike innocence, it seems to hold it in
contempt. Garland's Oz was basically a beautiful place where evil could
be conquered with intellect, compassion, courage and the security of
family and friends. The Oz that Ross treks through is basically an evil
place; the message she learns is that the world stinks, so stop your
whining and get used to it. The "there's no place like home" moral
remains intact, but that has little meaning if the alternative -- Oz --
is seen as corrupt and evil.

In THE WIZARD OF OZ, Dorothy's Oz is a dream world version of her own
life; the Witch, the Wizard and her traveling companions all have human
counterparts. This makes the 1939 film a personal story. In THE WIZ,
there is no apparent correlation between Oz and Dorothy's seemingly
isolated home life, the people of Oz and Dorothy's family have no
counterparts. Garland's Dorothy escapes to Oz, but realizes the best
part of Oz is already part of her. Ross' Dorothy fears Oz and
ultimately escapes from it. The inner dream world of Oz becomes an
alien world of media-generated stereotypes. THE WIZARD OF OZ is a
fantasy; THE WIZ is a horror story. 

Obviously reworking the basic story to accommodate an all-black cast
wasn't done just to utilize a different style of music. As such, the
film becomes a showcase for a panorama of African-American stereotypes,
many of them negative. But rather than debunking racist clich√©s, the
film embraces them. Sleep inducing poppy fields are replaced with opium
dens, witches become sweatshop slave drivers, flying monkeys are gang
members, Munchkins are graffiti vandals and so on and so forth. As
adult satire, such imagery is understandable, if lame, but the film
forgets this is still a story specifically aimed at children. Just as
the film was rewritten from the play to accommodate the adult Ross, the
material is altered from L. Frank Baum's books to make it adult, but
not mature. It seems to be the film's conviction that to tell the story
from a black perspective it must embrace a grim urban reality,
basically saying that childlike innocence cannot exist because urban
living, especially for a black audience, has destroyed such a concept.
A sad commentary for a children's fantasy and an even sadder assumption
about African-American life.

The irony of THE WIZ is that it is ill-conceived, cheaply melodramatic
and relies on trite stereotypes; in other words, it has no brain, no
heart and no courage. And ultimately it found no home, being a
box office flop. And what could have been a breakthrough landmark in
cinema ends up being a sad relic of political incorrectness.

<|_=00=_|>
Okay...I never knew that other people did not love The Wiz until last
year, 2004. I first saw this movie in the theater when it was released
as a little girl. My mother, sister and I felt like we had been drawn
into an urban fairy tale that we could relate to. As African-Americans,
this was the first time we had witnessed a fantastical creation that
had characters and images that we could relate too.

The singing, costumes, backdrop of New York city and choreography were
magical. In fact, TV One just aired an all day marathon of The Wix on
Thanksgiving and we watched the loop the entire day.

The Wiz provides the viewer with a sneak peek into the lives of
Dorothy, The Scarecrow, The Tin Man, and The Lion--all with some
"SOUL." The cast of lesser characters are even more of a jewel...the
crows--well, most of us can relate to the "crabs in a barrel" attitude
that has plagues the inner city; Miss One--well she was a glitter
bedecked "numbers runner"; the citizens of Emerald City remind me of
the urban fashionista crowd...and the dance scene reflect the attitude
of the bourgeoisie that you can find in any community of color in the
United States; the Poppies--what a hilarious nod to the fact that often
times, you don't even see women of color in movies unless they are
playing the role of prostitute or drug addict; and the workers in
Evilene's Sweat Shop...well, they are like so many of us who suddenly
discover that there is someone beautiful waiting to come out of us...we
just have to be free enough to be comfortable in our own skin.

OK. You get the picture...I love this movie. And so many others that I
know do too. I am thankful that I can now share The Wiz with my own
children.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is nothing short of wonderful.

It is not the best movie ever made. It is not technically perfect or
flawlessly acted. There are things wrong with it, some more egregious
than other movies, some less. 

But here's the thing: The Wiz has taken an old, beloved classic of
literature and rewritten it just enough to make it completely new. I
was as absorbed...if not moreso...with these new characters, reborn
into another world, so familiar and yet so unknown, as I was taken in
by the original Judy Garland film.

Suspension of disbelief is a necessary ingredient for all storytelling,
and the more fantastic the more imagination one requires to enjoy it.
Diana Ross too old? So what? I thought she was marvelous, and I
thought she perfectly portrayed Dorothy in this alternate universe. In
fact, I thought all the actors were terrific.

The story of the Wizard Of Oz has been in my top five favourite stories
of all time for as long as I have been alive. I include Diana Ross' The
Wiz right up there in an unbreakable tie with Judy Garland's Wizard Of
Oz. They are both charming and well told versions of a brilliant
literary classic, and they both deserve their due at the top of the
food chain as far as fantastic storytelling goes. 

And I haven't even touched the stunning aspect that an all Black cast
chose not only to make this film, but actually rewrite it enough to
show the point of view of the lives of the folks who lived in the
ghettos and inner cities.

Even today, Black actors must struggle to receive equal treatment in
film. Back when this movie was released, accomplishing this film was
nothing short of a mind-boggling achievement, and one to be lauded. 

I suspect a lot of the bad reputation this film has gotten over the
years, especially at the beginning, was because the inherent racism and
sexism in the industry was offended that the folks who made this film
had the temerity to do so with an all-Black cast. It's happened before,
and I'm afraid it will continue to happen until we grow enough
intelligence to finally put discrimination behind us at last, and move
beyond into a brighter future.

This movie will remain one of my favourite films. I couldn't recommend
it any more highly. If you are a child at heart, if you love good
stories made new, if you live in the imagination, this film is for you.

Just beware of that subway scene. If your kids are young and/or easily
frightened, preview the movie before you watch it with them. It still
creeps me out when I see it, and I know a lot of people who still get
nightmares from it. But it's one of the best scenes in the film, and a
testament to how creative the folks who put the film together were.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally, I feel that it is a travesty to remake an older, classic film 
(sequels excepted). Profits aside, what is the motive? What is there to 
add? "The Wiz," however, is one of the few exceptions to my belief.

Whereas "The Wizard of Oz" is more of a child's film, the intended 
audience for "The Wiz" is a few steps above that. Like its predecessor, 
"The Wiz" is both visually stunning and musically engaging. It 
compliments the seriousness of its themes and situations--both of which 
it has in more abundance than its predecessor--with a copious amount of 
humor.

Seldom have I witnessed a more creative work of adaptation than that 
which is presented by "The Wiz," which is, of course, adapted from L. 
Frank Baum's "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz." A few others that spring to 
mind are "Logan's Run" and "The War of the Worlds." I mention these not 
because they were simply a good translation of book to film, but 
because they maintained the book's overall story (plot, theme, 
characters, etc.) while retailoring the environment and/or situation.

"The Wiz" focuses on the "black situation." It redresses all of the 
elements from its source material to meet the needs of its revamped, 
modern, social subject matter. From the Scarecrow, who represents a 
pitiable, underachieving product of his environment; to the poppies, 
which represent drug addiction; to the denizens of Oz, who are ready to 
follow the latest trend just to be "in;" the story presents its 
audience with a generalized glimpse at the breakdown of "black" culture 
and society.

Though "The Wiz" does not convey the same childlike wonder, magic, and 
fantasy that both the original film and the novel do, it translates 
those elements into more of an industrialized, mechanical, inner city 
playground. Unfortunately, albeit appropriately, the Oz we witness is 
through an older Dorothy's eyes. Interestingly, due to her advanced 
age, the circumstances that befall her must be harsher in order to 
invoke the necessary change of heart.

Unlike the setting in "The Wizard of Oz," which exists in our dreams, 
"somewhere over the rainbow," the setting in "The Wiz" occupies our 
nightmares. The contrast between Judy Garland's Oz and her native 
Kansas is many times greater than that between Diana Ross' Oz and her 
native New York. The incentive to return home is greater for 
Diana--even though the colorful lure of a fantasy land is not 
present--since her Oz may be merely a preview of things to come (back 
home), if she does not start to make a difference.

One of the few things for which I did not care was 
all-too-recognizable, yet modified New York as Oz. Though the entire 
film's art direction was brilliant, I found New York to be too 
distracting and too contemporary to be an adequate Oz. Another subject 
of distaste for me was the "end of slavery" segment after Evillene's 
liquidation. The song and dance were nice and full of energy, but the 
symbolism was too literal and seemed out of place with regards to the 
rest of the film. I could have also enjoyed a bit more denouement and 
perhaps even an epilogue about Dorothy's reunion with her family.

Three interesting notes: 1) The landscape of Oz in "The Wiz" actually 
does change after Dorothy intervenes to make a difference; this does 
not happen in "The Wizard of Oz." 2) While Judy's visit to Oz seems to 
be concussion-induced, Diana actually appears to visit that fabled 
land, which is closer to the book. 3) "The Wiz" contains all four 
witches presented in the book; "The Wizard of Oz" only contains three.

Though it seems rather dated today, "The Wiz" is still a fun movie to 
view, and it contains a number of known (Motown) celebrities.
<|_=00=_|>
...And favorites don't always have rhyme or reason. I can just say that
this movie always struck a chord with me. I know that it is dark. I
agree that Diana Ross's acting is overwrought with some unknown
neurosis. But the music is soulful and the vocal performances make me
cry every time. The urban setting (in contrast to the farm that never
"clicked" with me) is almost comforting, though not in the parking
garage. I agree with the more intellectual reviewers that Lumet's
direction could have been better. I'm just a sucker for the
gospel-style singing in "the feeling that we have", "believe", and
"brand new day". I find this movie much more of an emotional release
than the Wizard of Oz.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching The Wiz on cable, I'm reminded how, by the over-powering
influence of one person, such a wondrous diamond was transformed into a
mere gum-wrapper.

Diana Ross proves to be the wickedest witch in The Wiz by forcing her
way into the lead role in what could have been a masterful classic of
the ages, where Stephanie Mills could have brought to the silver screen
the magical and exuberant star-power she achieved in her Broadway
debut.

Without question, Ms. Ross's uncontrollable ego so contaminated the
entire production which, aside from the outstanding art direction,
choreography, and music, went far beyond the ability of any director to
regain the life-giving power of such a legionary story Stephanie Mills
could have inspired.

Ironically, it was fate that stepped in and rescued The Wizard of Oz
from Shirley Temple, handing the key role to Judy Garland. (Don't get
me wrong, we all loved dear Shirley, just not in this.). Whereas, Ms.
Ross' intervention chopped fate to shreds, poured gasoline on the pile,
and burned it by raging fire into oblivion. Alas, what might have
been...
<|_=00=_|>
It's a bit confounding as to why this legendary 1978 fiasco would
warrant a 30th Anniversary Edition DVD, even though in hindsight, this
elaborately conceived film is not quite as bad as I recall. That's not
to say it's a neglected masterpiece. Not by a long shot. Directed by
the estimable Sidney Lumet ("Long Day's Journey Into Night", "Network",
last year's "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead"), the epic-length film
is a regrettable misfire on several counts with its chief liability
being a rickety story structure due to an early-career foible of a
screenplay by current schlock-master Joel Schumacher ("Batman Forever",
"The Phantom of the Opera"). The 1975 Broadway musical version was a
zesty, all-black update of Frank Baum's original story that became a
long-running hit. Schumacher eschewed the book of the stage version in
order to customize the role of Dorothy, written as a pre-pubescent
Kansas farm girl, for a then 34-year old Diana Ross, still riding high
off "Lady Sings the Blues" and "Mahogany". Consequently, in the film
version, Dorothy has inexplicably become a 24-year old Harlem
schoolteacher with a severe case of social anxiety disorder.

Because the original 1939 film version of "The Wizard of Oz" is so
familiar, there is virtually no sense of surprise in the way of plot.
The challenge becomes watching a dowdy, skeletal-looking Ross react to
her surreal surroundings in such an excessively na√Øve manner as to make
Dorothy appear in need of a special education program. That leaves her
three road companions to pick up the slack, and for the most part, they
do. One can now feel melancholic over Michael Jackson's youthfully
energetic turn as the Scarecrow since it is the only time his abundant
talents have been captured on the big screen. He does his trademark
spins and jumps in an exuberant duet with Ross on the show's most
famous number, "Ease on Down the Road", probably the film's best
moment. Comedian Nipsey Russell makes a likeably philosophical Tin Man,
but it's Ted Ross who truly shines as Fleetwood the Lion in a
performance that compares favorably to Bert Lahr's cowardly original. A
rather hyper Richard Pryor makes a barely-there appearance in the title
role. The women fare even less well. Theresa Merritt has just a few
scenes upfront as kindly Aunt Emma, Mabel King does her blustery best
to make an impression as Evillene the Wicked Witch in just a couple of
scenes, and the legendary Lena Horne is simply wasted as Glinda the
Good in static repose as she belts out her one number, "If You Believe
in Yourself".

The film picks up considerable energy during the production number set
to Luther Vandross' "Everybody Rejoice/Brand New Day", but Lumet just
doesn't know when to stop it. Like Martin Scorsese (1977's "New York,
New York") and John Huston (1982's "Annie"), Lumet is a director out of
his depth within the necessary fleetness of the musical genre, and the
film's pacing lags over its excessive running time of 133 minutes. The
one element that remains impressive over the years is Tony Walton's
creative costumes and elaborate production design turning New York City
into a surreal series of carnival rides. Most ironically, the World
Trade Center is made over into Emerald City and the Twin Towers plaza
becomes the setting for an Earth, Wind & Fire-style disco ensemble. For
what is marketed as a special edition package, the 2008 DVD is
surprisingly bereft of meaningful extras ¬ñ a brief making-of featurette
made at the time of production, the original theatrical trailer and a
CD with eight of the movie's songs. The movie is a misbegotten mess
with just a few forgotten jewels.
<|_=00=_|>
A good artist knows the ins and outs of his genre and creates works
that clearly belong with others of the same type. A great artist knows
more than one genre, crosses their boundaries and unites things that
aren't supposed to belong together, creating a new genre of his own. In
this film, director Sidney Lumet - who has proved himself as a good
director with his mastery of gritty realism - tries to cross those
boundaries and unite his gritty style with the film musical. He pours
his ingredients into the wicked witch's cauldron, mixes them
together... and sadly creates a hotpot of sloppy seconds.

The first point of contention has to be the grossly mis-cast Diana Ross
as Dorothy. I have read in various places that she gained the part from
playing personal politics and schmoozing with the honchos at Universal.
As this game has no honour whatsoever, I see no reason to be diplomatic
when talking about how damn awful she was at this part. Not only was
she too old to be a convincing Dorothy, but she just could not act to
save herself. Her squealing ham of a performance does nothing for
movie, and when the movie cuts to one of her "emotional" close-ups, you
can just picture the few seconds beforehand when Lumet must have said,
"OK, Diana, it's time to do your scared/sad/excited/confused face...
ACTION!", and the camera proceeds to film a few seconds of overacting
that could fit into a song about feelings by Barney the dinosaur.
Granted, her singing in the movie is mature and soulful, but this only
makes the acting seem even more awkward and out-of-place in comparison.

Combine this with Lumet's tendency to stage scenes with a master shot
with so few cutaways, close-ups or focus on the finer details of
choreography or design. Then notice a lack of flow from once scene to
another, and everything seems so out of place that by the time the
characters arrive at the Emerald City, it's VERY hard to be interested
in the movie. The later highlights such as Mabel King's performance as
Evillene and Lena Horne's performance as Glinda fade into the obscurity
that the film has inflicted upon itself.

Michael Jackson and Nipsey Russell give credible performances as the
Scarecrow and Tin Man. It's equally heartening to see Jackson in the
days before he became a living tabloid headline/punchline and
disturbing to think that while he shines in this role, his performance
as a stumbling, confused character on a quest to find himself became a
self-fulfilling prophecy. Like or hate the music, but the material and
the performances could have been much better served by a script that
didn't scream out its point at every opportunity and direction that
occasionally inter-cut some of the finer details with the 'big picture'
<|_=00=_|>
Part of my rancor for this movie is that I saw the original play with
Stephanie Mills. For the most part, the play was a truer adaptation to
the original. I was thrilled when I heard the movie was being
made...that is until I saw Diana Ross was playing Dorothy. I just could
not wrap my mind around a 40 year old Dorothy and still can't. What
really makes me sad is that the young children that see this think it
is wonderful. I remember falling out laughing when they did a close up
of "Dorothy's" feet in the magic slippers. Veins and tendons galore.
They looked like turkey feet. Well, like a trip to Mecca, I plan to
take my daughter to see the Broadway summer revival, so she will not
grow up in the ignorance that Diana Ross is Dorothy. This film was
wrong on so many levels, I would really be suspicious of a 40 year old
woman living like a 12 year old. Ewwwwwwww just creepy all the way
around. It made me think that instead of a tornado, Dorothy had been to
the local crack house and when she finally came down, she ran "home". I
cringe every time she squealed "Toto", and at the same time looking
like she was weaned on a pickle. Just sad.....
<|_=00=_|>
What one must understand is ... what a wonderful play "The Wiz" was on
Broadway. At the time, a tiny little teen with a LARGE voice named
Stephanie Mills took this play by the hand and made it spectacular. You
had to have seen it in New York back then -- and I did -- when I was a
kid.

Then came this movie. A stage to screen adaptation of the play that has
a few good moments (all by supporting cast) but was brought down by the
casting of Diana Ross as Dorothy. While this may make all Diana Ross
"fans" angry - understand one key thing: Miss Ross was too old to play
this Dorothy. There were plenty of those at the time who felt that way
-- and when I finally saw this movie, I have to 100% agree. 

I do remember the 'gossip mill' of this this like it was yesterday:

Stephanie Mills, the original Dorothy from the stage, was considered to
do the screen version and Miss Ross was tapped to play the Good Witch
at the end (the part Lena Horne finally did.) If this casting took off,
the film would have been a nice bow to the stage version and the
Dorothy 'part' would have been the young teen she was meant to be. Even
if Miss Mills was found not to be "box office" enough (shrugg!!!),
there were plenty of teens at that time to handle the part - and me it
IS important to have Dorothy in The Wiz portrayed as such a young,
inexperienced, wide eyed teen in the ghetto learning these things.

But..and this is according to the gossip mills of that time...Miss Ross
wanted the part of DOROTHY so bad and she pulled her weight and
clout...said she could "get" Michael Jackson (whom at that time was a
hot teen singer himself!) to whom they were VERY interested in casting.
The rumor was Miss Ross said in essence, no Dorothy for her, no Michael
for you. And that would leave the executives, who thought Michael would
be a box office draw, in a quandary. So here we have, what we have.

Whether this is true or not is for you to decide. But as I watch this,
there has to be a bit of truth for it does pain me to see Miss Ross as
the young ghetto Dorothy. Every time there's a close up, interaction of
the part to the adults or dance number, you can tell. Be honest. We're
not talking about a Shirley Temple vs. a Judy Garland age thing that
actually worked, it was a baby New Year vs. Methuselah on screen thing.
Fan of Miss Ross or not - and I am a fan - just not for this. This
was/should have been Stephanie's debut movie role, and it would have
been nice.

And not just to zero in on Miss Ross' casting, there could have been a
few other changes as well that would have made this kinda fun as
well...such as Nipsy Russell's Tim Man was good, but putting Richard
Pryor there would have been a riot -- and letting Nipsy be...The Wiz
instead. As I've said, there are other roles that were wonderful here -
(Oh, Evilene!!!) and Lena Horne as the Good Witch are a delight to see
nevertheless.
