
Okay, I was a fan of the first movie. And, embarrassingly enough, I was
sort of a fan of the second one. But this one...

Okay, first off, there's NO fluid movement to the Turtles AT ALL. They
look about as mechanically-enhanced as those crappy singing robots they
used to have at your local Chuck E. Cheese. In several shots, you can
actually SEE where the turtle mask ends and the body suit begins,
thereby magically creating the illusion that this is a guy in a turtle
costume. The Splinter costume/puppet/whatever is SO. BAD. In the first
movie, he was nuanced and realistic, but I guess that's why the folks
at Jim Henson's Creature Shop make so much. Apparently, New Line
couldn't afford them anymore.

The plot is... SO ridiculous. The "writers" send the Turtles BACK IN
TIME to ancient Japan(?), a place where they don't have any villains
from the comics or the cartoon. Some Japanese guys switch places with
them in the present to be baby-sat by Casey Jones, and
fish-out-of-water hilarity ensues (HA HA HA kill me). I actually have a
theory about this: I think someone dug through a bunch of crappy action
movie scripts, found one that would work with the Turtles and wrote the
Turtles into it. It's the only thing that makes sense to me.

And P.S. -- the "jokes" are... not.

Anyway, avoid this abomination at all costs. If it means anything to
ya, it ranks near the very bottom of my Worst Movies Ever list
(somewhere below The Cat In The Hat but just above Freddy Got
Fingered).
<|_=00=_|>

STAR RATING:*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A
Meal Instead*Avoid At All Costs

A magic sceptor transports an ancient warrior from 1603 Japan to
present day New York.The heroic foursome in turn learn they must travel
back to the warrior's timeframe to battle Lord Norinaga (Sho Shinoba)
and his right-hand man Walker (Stuart Wilson) who are enslaving the
people.

The only film in the series to be completely absent of Shredder,the
desperation begins to seep through at a very early stage.An obviously
different,helium voiced actor plays Splinter,whilst we see Raphael
adopt a less aggressive nature as events in the film progress.For
this,and a fairly engaging script,the film is not a total
failure.However,the lack of an engaging story proves to be quite a
hindrance.The Turtles were certainly massive in the late 80s and early
90s and in retrospect,you could say good on them for wrangling all they
could out of feature film adaptations for the franchise.Lets just
say,they were certainly wise to leave it at this.**

<|_=00=_|>
Like a lot of prepubescent children in 1989 or 1990, my imagination was
captured by this new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fad. I remember
sitting down and watching an interview with the creators, a pair of
comic book authors who chose to go the independent route and gamble on
their own ability to succeed. They were lucky enough to win against the
odds, at least for a time, but in this interview, they also mentioned
something about believing the phenomenon would go on forever. Well, the
Turtles are still selling on comic book stands, and you can still see
some of their adventures on DVD, but as to whether it survived the
1990s is a matter of opinion.

The first feature film, complete with man-sized turtles played by
actors in suits, was a low-budget triumph. Indeed, the dominance of
Golden Harvest studios in Hong Kong martial arts cinema can easily be
traced back to their winning of the rights to do the original film.
With a little help from the Jim Henson workshop and some well-cast
B-actors in key support roles, the original Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles film was a major success that utterly dumbfounded the studio
system. What is even more surprising is how the film did not go in the
easy "we're primarily marketing to children, so we can be patronising"
route that most children's entertainment follows.

That last point is where the first sequel, and this one in particular,
went wrong. By the time 1993 rolled around, the Turtles fad had more or
less utterly died, replaced by a far longer-lasting fascination with
The Simpsons. As a direct result, the budget allocated by Golden
Harvest to the third Turtles film was a mere fraction of that allotted
to the first film. This is most obvious in the turtles themselves.
Sure, they are still portrayed by men in suits, and those suits are
still maintained by the Henson workshop, but the overall tone of the
turtles' skin and the motion of their mouths indicates that Golden
Harvest told the Henson workshop that they just wanted something
passable. Given that the first film was dedicated to Jim because it was
one of the last things he worked on before he died, this is quite the
sad come-down.

Another major problem is in the tone of the story. While the Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles will never be confused with the likes of RoboCop,
the first film went back to the roots of the original comic book and
depicted a world that was, for all intents, rather dark. There was a
bare hint that being a 5'6" turtle with consciousness was not all it
was cracked up to be, unlike the utopia implied by the afternoon
cartoon series. There was acrimony, grief, rage, and a million other
things that children's entertainment seems to believe we cannot really
handle now or ever. That was what turned Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
into Golden Harvest's big breakaway hit.

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III, also known as Turtles In Time, picks
up with the turtles milling around their sewer hideout with Splinter
(who now looks like a shag carpet with eyes). When April shows up with
a bunch of items she found at a garage sale, she happens upon an
ancient artifact that transports her back in time to feudal Japan. The
turtles, in their usual confused weird-species adolescent fervour, take
it upon themselves to go back and rescue her, because we all know how
an adolescent turtle would go all bug-eyed at the thought of rescuing a
woman who looks anything like Paige Turco.

Elias Koteas, the real star of the original film, gets to jump back in
here, but the character he is best known for spends most of his time
eating pizza, watching over a bunch of Japanese soldiers who changed
places in time with the turtles (don't ask), and sharing conversation
with the shag carpet that Splinter turned into. For the rest of the
time, he plays one of the English scoundrels who are trading with the
Japanese monarchs. Yeah, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Nor does
it particularly excite the viewer. In fact, much like the previous
film, the fight sequences are so toned-down and PG-fied that the adults
in the audience will fall asleep. Or worse yet, just use this film as a
kind of artificial babysitter, which I somehow doubt was what Kevin
Eastman and Peter Laird had in mind for their original creations. I
don't doubt that they were trying to reach the widest possible
audience, but as this film proves, the more you try to please everyone,
the more you wind up pleasing no one.

I gave Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III a one out of ten. There are
moments when it gets bad enough to be funny. The problem is that there
are just not enough such moments to justify this film for all but the
most hardcore fans of the turtles. And since the most serious fans
would all be at least twenty years old by now, well, let us just say
this film has its work cut out for it pleasing even that audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Originally when I saw this movie, it had only just come out in theaters
and I was just a kid. At the time, I thought the movie was a steaming
pile of crap, no where near in comparison tot he first two. Hell, I
overlooked the inclusion of Vanilla Ice for YEARS, insisting that even
if he was in the second movie, it was still better than the third.
However, now that I am older and a touch wiser, I've gone back and
watched all three movies (I've been on a serious TMNT-a-Thon ever since
I heard a new movie was in the making). While I admit the third is
indeed the worst of the three, it is far from the travesty I originally
thought (and thought for years). Aside from the silly story and the
poor quality turtle costumes, the dialog is given several moments to
shine with some surprisingly funny jokes and one-liners and minor
giggles. I'm not saying every TMNT fan should go out and buy this. I
don't even own it myself. However, I think you should get a few friends
together, grab some snacks, some source of caffeine, order a pizza, and
rent TMNT III for a night of absurdity and laughs. That's what my
friends and I did <3
<|_=00=_|>
The story of the turtles gets even more far-fetched in this inferior
installment, with the turtles going back in time to 1603 Japan. The Jim
Henson's Creature Shop obviously didn't provide for the turtles, which
is a major blow to the overall production. There are a couple of pros
that save the film from being a total disaster, including: the return
of Casey Jones (Koteas), who's reprisal may make some fans feel that
the second installment had a void with his omission; some fun parallels
between 1603 Japan and the turtles' life in 1993 New York; wonderful
set production for the Japan scenes; and well-developed new characters.
While the omission of any references to the Foot Clan may heavily
separate this film from the others in the series, it executes an
entertaining and solid story. It's also nice to see the turtles and
Splinter are still living in the abandoned underground train station
from the second film, as well as Turco NOT suffering a recast of April
O'Neal like Hoag did; which shows some attempt at continuity despite
its major differences from the first two. However, the flaws are too
great for its pros to overcome mediocre status. Right from the get-go
the movie seems like a lost cause, with the opening credits being
accompanied by a ridiculously, terribly unnecessary, spontaneous
turtle-dance. Also, couldn't they have found a way to throw Chief Stern
(Serra) in for some extra comedic-relief and continuity?

** (out of four)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm only a fan of this movie for the nostalgia. As a kid, I was
obsessed with 1993 ninja turtle Saturday morning cartoon. I distinctly
remember getting this movie as a reward for getting good grades in
every subject on my report card that term. I must've watched this movie
at least a dozen times that summer.

sorry for the tangent. corey feldman does the voice of a lifesize
puppet. how can that possibly be a good sign? the heroes of the movie
are irritating in every scene. the consistently bad puns will make you
want to slam your head against a wall. the portrayal of the fictional
early 90's new york that exists in this movie is about as funny as rick
moranis's career. avoid avoid avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III in my opinion it is a underrated solid
good sequel to the original flick. Everyone hates this film and going
for the second film. This one get's the crap for it and the second one
gets the praised. This film was actually the first film in the trilogy
that I have watched. As child I wanted so badly to see Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles the original movie it was my biggest childhood wish, I
heard that Splinter throw Shredder off the roof, I didn't know in which
movie that was, so my mom bought me Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III on
VHS in 1993, when this movie come out. The VHS sadly had a terrible
picture quality and awful sound but even with all that I still liked
the film not seeing the first two films. But after watching the first
two films, they both become my favorite films, but I hated this one
because there was no Shredder, Rocksteady, Bebop, Foot clan or Krang in
this movie, that was than. I was really surprised by this film. They
don't use jokes in here, they try too, but they aren't cartoonish like
are in the second one. They actually use weapons and swords, nunchakus,
not their fists they are Ninja Turtles so they are using weapons which
I love that. The only thing that hurt the film are the costumes they
aren't Jim Henson's Creature Shop, they are more cheap costumes that
were provided by Effects Company the animatronics, that is a minor
flaw. 

Plot: The four turtles travel back in time to the days of the legendary
and deadly samurai in ancient Japan, where they train to perfect the
art of becoming one. The turtles also assist a small village in an
uprising.

It is my childhood film. I love that the story is original, no one
brings back the characters who died back again. Elias Koteas reprise
his role back as Casey Jones and he also plays another character Whit a
double spy by Walker's army. There is less humor in this film and it is
more serious. Turtles are using there weapons. Leonardo is a bad ass.
Fighting Japanese Samurai was awesome. I love that Turtles are back in
the time in ancient old Japan, where the air was more cleaner, than it
is today. I love Stuart Wilson as the villain Walker. A year later he
was another villain in Lethal Weapon 3. 

Seriously I don't see the hate for this film I love it a lot! I love
that Elias Koteas plays two double roles, one as Casey Jones and the
second one as Whit. Again a lot of people are complaining because Casey
Jones doesn't do anything in the film, just sit around, really?
Seriously? Haven't you watched the movie? Whit (Elias Koteas) kills
Waalker on the end of the film, when he fires a fire ball on Walker,
while he try's to escape. Leonardo defeats Lord Norinaga (Sab Shimono)
in a sword fight, even tough the scene was hilarious I still have enjoy
it. I love the music score and song Tarzan Boy by Baltimora and of
course Rockin' Over The Beat by Technotronic. Paige Turco did
outstanding performance as April O'Neil much better than she did in The
secret of the Ooze. I grew up with this movie as a child a lot, I have
even had Michelangelo and Walker's toy's, I Think I even had a Raphael
figure I am not sure. 

Overall: I love this movie it get's 6 by me, I love Ninja Turtles in
here, I love how Michelangelo saves a child from a flammable house and
Leonardo saves him from dying, by giving him a mouth to mouth and he
saves him. So why would I hate this film? when the effects are good and
the acting is solid. Turtles saved and they prevented the war, they
help people out. I think this film for me personally is better than
second one and the reboot. I love this film to death and it is my
second favorite film of the three. 

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is a 1993 American action comedy film
based on the comic book characters the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. It
is the second sequel to the 1990 live-action Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles film. 

6/10 Grade: C- Studio: New Line Cinema, 20TH Century Fox, Golden
Harvest Starring: Elias Koteas, Paige Turco, Vivian Wu, Sab Shimono,
Stuart Wilson, John Aylward, Brian Tochi, Robbie Rist, Corey Feldman,
Tim Kelleher, James Murray Director: Stuart Gillard Producers: David
Chan, Kim Dawson, Thomas K. Gray Screenplay: Stuart Gillard Based on
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles by Kevin Eastman, Peter Laird Rated: PG
Running Time: 1 Hr. 36 Mins. Budget: $17,000,000 Box Office:
$42,660,000
<|_=00=_|>

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III (1993)

(Possible Spoilers)
The Ninja Turtles (one of my favourite series' as a child) return in their
third, and worst, movie. Not alot happens in this one (the Turtles go back
in time to 17th century Japan, have lots of fights) though some of the
fight
scenes are pretty good. Overall, children will love it but they still
won't
like it as much as the others.

2/5
<|_=00=_|>
Like a lot of prepubescent children in 1989 or 1990, my imagination was
captured by this new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fad. I had all the
toys, seen the shows and movies. So my cousin and I were super excited
for another. A third movie. What could be better than this? Anything.
Almost anything would have been better than this movie. I'm only a fan
of this movie for the nostalgia. And the pizza. Can't go wrong with
pizza. Just avoid this movie. The previous movies were full of good
puns and good times. This movie just seems to keep falling flat.
Flatter than a pizza. The plot is thin, the costumes are horrible.
Someone was slacking. Don't buy the movie. Order in a pizza instead.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the negative critical reception of TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES
II: THE SECRET OF THE OOZE, the film was still a financial success and
another TMNT film was announced, but this would be the last film to be
released by New Line Cinema.

The film was titled TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES III or TMNT III or
TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES III: TURTLES IN TIME.

The plot revolves around the "Sacred Sands of Time", a mystical scepter
which transports the Turtles back in time to feudal Japan, where they
become embroiled in a conflict between a daimyo and a group of
rebellious villagers.

The plot of this movie just drives me crazy a little bit, but the story
is a little bit incoherent in a few areas, but it can also get really
amazing and this movie should have gotten more praise and acclaim that
the first film did and I really don't know why people hate this movie.

The turtles look stupid as hell in this film and the visuals are
impressive, and part of the reason why I think the turtles look as bad
as they do is because and they are just fantastic and simply amazing.

The music is composed by John Du Prez and it is spectacular. The
visuals and designs of this film is just amazing and really cool and
spectacular.

The acting is okay and that, along with the music is what keeps me from
hating this movie in the worst way I can possibly can. Corey Feldman
and the original TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES cast returns to do their
voices of their respective turtles and it sounds amazing.

Paige Turco plays the role of April O'Neill and she does a great job
once again. Elias Koteas plays the role of Casey Jones once again and
he does a great job once again and he is just incredible this time,
especially after being absent from the second film.

After this film, another film was in development for a release in 1997
titled "TMNT: The Next Mutation", the film would introduced new
turtles, but this project was cancelled after trying to get it made.

So, in 2007, both Warner Bros. Pictures and The Weinstein Company
teamed up to bring us the 100% computed generated imagery version of
the four heroes, simply titled TMNT.
