
This movie is an excellent portrayal of the brutal and often
non-conventional Irish freedom struggle. The movie has several great
strengths. The biggest strength is Liam Neeson in his tour-de-force.
His acting in this movie is as good as it gets. His personality changes
subtly throughout the movie, becoming increasingly affected by the
changes of the world around him. The supporting cast is also excellent,
with Rickman in one of his best roles.

Cinematography is very nice, capturing everything from the hopelessness
of the defeats in the ashy cities to the beauty of the Irish
landscapes. The pacing is very good as well.

If you saw this movie with no opinion on the Irish history, you will
have one when you leave the theater. This shows to me how powerful this
movie is. After all, Michael Collin's tactics were not pretty,
everything from car-bombings to mob-style executions. Yet we still care
for him, we want him to succeed, even if he himself isn't sure he wants
to.

Without it's politics, this movie is still excellent. It's a great
piece of movie-making, it's involving, sad, funny and sometimes tense.
One of the movies I consider classic.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this first in the now defunct Capitol Cineplex in Cork. I was
surprised to see so many senior citizens in the cinema. The cineplex
was so scummy it had to be something special to draw them in. Some of
them might have been old enough to remember the civil war or at least
to have had a close family member killed in it. Many of them were
clearly moved by it particularly the end with its archive footage. It
is a moving film, but you have to be careful. 

One should never confuse history with entertainment and this is not a
history lesson. All the major events are there, but there is a horrible
bias from the director. I don't like DeValera or what he stood for, but
what was hinted at the end in this movie is a travesty. If such a thing
is true, you have to prove it, you can't slyly hint at it. There are
other insidious things such as mortars and car-bombs which are clear
reference to the 1970s-90s Northern conflict. Such weapons did not
exist in 1916. To me this is an oblique way of implying that the Provos
are somehow the legitimate heirs of the IRA in 1916 which of course
they are not. 

Despite this I enjoyed the movie a lot. The production values and
acting was so good, it really felt like a timewarp. Neil Jordan is a
great director, Neeson and Rickman are superb in their parts. Rickman
looks so much like DeValera it is uncanny. I even liked Julia Roberts.
It looks like she made a fair attempt at a Dun Laoghaire accent and of
course it sounded phony. Southside Dublin accents all sound phoney to
me anyway so I didn't mind. The best moment was the scene where Collins
starts the civil war sitting behind a howitzer aimed at the Four Courts
and fires. You can see a huge explosion and bits coming out portico. I
actually felt scared that they had damaged this famous Dublin landmark.
This won't mean much to someone from overseas, but anyone familiar with
the Four Courts and the resident lawyers (sorry "barristers") in their
eighteenth century costumes would surely enjoy firing an artillery
piece at the overpaid clowns. I wish I had a howitzer like that.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very touching film. I was shocked to see the IMDb score of
6.8. The only major fault of this film is Julia Roberts. She really
takes a wonderful film and turns it down a few notches. She can't keep
an Irish accent, switching back and forth with her American accent
throughout the duration of the film. 

Anyway, Michael Collins is great to watch. The story is heartfelt, and
the nuances between personal battles and patriotic duty are displayed
in a very mature fashion - - to what extent will you go for your
country? What will you lose? Who will you fight? Why will you do any of
it? Who are your true friends? etc. 

The music is FANTASTIC. Worth renting just for the listen. Of course
Neison is great. So is Aidin Quinn (when I first saw this movie I
thought Quinn was Irish given his name and his performance here). Alan
Rickman is Alan Rickman - - which is great, though he doesn't pull off
the Irish thing too well. However, given his character, Eamon de
Valera, it isn't really a miscast, just takes time to get in.

If you can ignore how horrible Julia Roberts is and think about the
heart and emotion behind this film while enjoying the awesome score
you're in for a treat. A jewel in the rough. (my favorites)
<|_=00=_|>
In 1916 Dublin, Michael Collins (Liam Neeson), Harry Boland (Aidan
Quinn), and Ã‰amon de Valera (Alan Rickman) are among the captured
rebels in the Easter Rising. After being released, they are politically
active. De Valera and the political leadership get arrested. Collins is
tipped off by double agent police detective Ned Broy (Stephen Rea).
Collins goes into hiding with his best friend Boland. He meets his love
Kitty Kiernan (Julia Roberts). Collins and Boland lead a guerrilla war
against the British forces. De Valera takes Boland with him to work
diplomatically. Eventually, the Brits relent and De Valera sends
Collins to negotiate. Collins returns with home rule and splitting off
Northern Ireland with De Valera opposing him. In 1922, the Anglo-Irish
Treaty is approved. De Valera and his men resign taking Boland with
them. They start their own revolt against the Irish Free State Army
headed by Collins.

This is an expansive epic historical drama. Liam Neeson leads this with
his powerful presence. He looms over this movie like the leading man
that he is. The actors are all great although Julia Roberts does stick
out a little. It would have been more fitting to have an Irish lass.
The movie does try to fit a lot into two hours. Some of it can feel a
bit disjointed. Liam Neeson is big enough to tie it all together. It
would also be nice for him to have a constant foil. Whether or not he
deserves it historically, the movie seems to make De Valera Collins'
foil. It would be great to fully embrace the conflict and give De
Valera more screen time. Make this Collins versus De Valera.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone interested in history especially that pertaining to how Ireland
broke away from the United Kingdom and became it's own country
definitely should check out this movie.

Liam Neeson was born to play Michael Collins, can't think of any other
actor who would've been appropriate to play this role. Aidan Quinn and
Alan Rickman were both also great in their roles. Julia Roberts gets
way too much hate for her role in this movie. She was perfectly fine in
her role and if anyone else without the attention that she brings had
been in that role it wouldn't have gotten all the negative reaction
that it had gotten.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't know if Hollywood was distorting history but someone who knows
the story of Michael Collins assured me this was a pretty accurate
portrayal of him in here, which makes this film go even higher in my
ratings, because it's definitely entertaining and is spectacularly
photographed. There is more blue color in here - beautiful blue - than
in any movie I've ever seen. It looks just gorgeous on DVD.

Liam Neeson's charismatic portrayal of Collins keeps you riveted to the
screen, even though it's a fairly long movie. Julia Roberts and Alan
Rickman seemed a bit miscast. Being American and British, respectively,
they weren't quite believable as Irishmen, perhaps because I'm used to
hearing them as they normally talk. I also don't like to hear the
Lord's name in vain so often as what was in here, but that seems
commonplace among the Irish, at least in all the movies I've seen and
books I've read (and my relatives, half of whom are Irish!) 

Anyway, this is a very interesting story with a nice combination of
drama, action and romance. Very much recommended regardless of anyone's
stance on Irish-English relations.
<|_=00=_|>
What worries me about films based on historical characters and events,
is that a lot of people take them at face value and accept them as fact
whereas very few of them are completely accurate, and this film is no
exception. However, despite the inaccuracies and speculations, it's a
good film. Liam Neeson in particular gives a great performance in the
title role, really bringing the complexities of the character to life.
Rickman is also good as DeValera. Julia Roberts is horribly miscast and
I can only think she was in it to boost box office ratings - although I
would have hardly thought that necessary with Neeson and Rickman as the
main characters. To be fair her character was pretty superfluous anyway
and only included to add some romantic interest.

Overall it's worth a watch, although if you really want to know about
the British/Irish conflict read a book!
<|_=00=_|>
Director Neil Jordan was at the height of his fame following his great
success with "The Crying Game" when he was finally able to convince
film investors to fund "Michael Collins," a project which was 10 years
in the making. I knew little about the history of the struggle for
Irish independence but after seeing this film, it propelled me to do a
little research. As a history lesson Michael Collins does well in
covering the main historical points but Jordan does little in
presenting the British point of view.

The film begins with the Easter Rising of 1916, a violent protest in
Dublin which resulted in the defeat and arrest of the leaders amongst
the Irish rebels. What Jordan doesn't let on here is that the rebellion
was not at all popular with the Irish people and the tide didn't turn
until the British executed the majority of the rebels following the
rebellion.

Liam Neeson does well in playing Collins as a dynamic, strong character
but Collins was around thirty when the events of the film takes place
and Neeson was about 14 years older. If you're willing to forgive the
age difference, Neeson is quite believable as the fiery Irish leader
who is still regarded as a George Washington figure amongst the
contemporary Irish populace.

Jordan is at his best when he dispassionately regurgitates the sequence
of events that led to the establishment of Ireland as a free state and
the resulting civil war. Of particular note are the gripping scenes of
escalating violence: Collins is a beaten by the Royal Irish
Constabulary after speaking at an election rally; Collins recruits a
squad of killers who murder 14 members of the MI5 "Cairo Gang" and the
ensuing act of genocidal revenge taken by the "Black and Tans"
paramilitary force at a soccer match; the IRA attack on the Custom
House which Collins opposed as he knew the British would easily win;
the attack on Collins after the treaty with the British, at an
anti-Treaty Republican rally; the offensive against the "The Four
Courts" by the anti-Treaty side of the IRA, despite Collins' bitter
opposition; and the ambush of Collins, resulting in his death.

Also of great interest is the conflict between Collins and Eamon de
Valera (played by an effective Alan Rickam) who early on felt that
Collins was acting on his own. The actual split between the two leaders
is foreshadowed when de Valera goes to meet President Woodrow Wilson in
order to gain recognition of the IRA's objectives and takes Collins'
best friend and constant companion, Harry Boland, with him. Eventually
de Valera orders Collins to negotiate the treaty with the British over
his objections that he's not a diplomat. And it was de Valera who split
with Collins over the terms of the treaty which broke Ireland into two
and still had the new Irish Free State swearing allegiance to the
Crown.

What's most fascinating about Collins is that initially he was regarded
as a terrorist by the British but after negotiating the treaty between
Ireland and the UK, he was now regarded as a "moderate." In fact,
during the Irish civil war, the British supplied arms to Collins'
forces who eventually defeated the anti-Treaty faction. Jordan argues
that Collins' targets were either brutal forces of the British
intelligence service or Irish collaborators, not innocent civilians.
Whatever the case, Collins, who was yesterday's terrorist now became
today's dignified statesman.

Jordan unfortunately leaves out the British side of the story. Instead,
they're all evil or supporters of evil. Jordan is not adverse to
twisting historical facts to make the British seem worse. The scene of
the massacre at the soccer match is exaggeratedÂ—no armored vehicle
entered the premises and machine gunned people in the stands. A British
Court of Inquiry found that the actions of the paramilitary group "was
carried out without orders and exceeded the demands of the situation."
The commander of the Dublin District stated that "the firing on the
crowd was carried out without orders, was indiscriminate, and
unjustifiable, with the exception of any shooting which took place
inside the enclosure." Nonetheless it was also true that this inquiry
was suppressed by the British government. The King of England and some
British politicians expressed their horror at the Bloody Sunday
massacre and such a public relations disaster did much to strengthen
the hand of de Valera's government, eventually leading to the peace
treaty between Ireland and England.

The killing of the double agent Irish detective who aided Collins, Ned
Broy, also appeared to be designed by Jordan to manipulate the audience
into hating the British even more. Broy is actually a composite
character of three people. While people were tortured by the British
(particularly those who were involved in the assassinations of British
intelligence agents on Bloody Sunday), Broy lived well into his 80s.

Jordan's decision to take a few liberties with historical events and
characters doesn't seem so bad in light of his overall success in
depicting the chronology of events in the Irish fight for independence
and its aftermath. Nonetheless, aside from Collins (and perhaps de
Valera) most of the other characters in the drama are unremarkable and
certainly Julia Roberts has little to do as the love interest between
Collins and sideman Boland.

While necessary, after a while, many of the violent goings on in
Michael Collins, felt more like a docudrama. Only when the conflict
between de Valera and Collins heats up, can one say that the narrative
becomes truly compelling. Again what's missing is the British point of
view (and perhaps a singular antagonist) which could have added to the
efficaciousness of this well staged period piece.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a brilliant account of the life of Michael Collins.  It starts
with the Easter Rising of 1916 and ends with his death in 1922.  Between
that time he managed to negotiate the first treaty of Independence for
Ireland.  Liam Neeson  does brilliantly as "the big fella" and Aidan Quinn
also is brilliant at portraying Collin's best friend Harry Boland.  Apart
from these other great stars in the film are Alan Rickman, Stephen Rea,
Charles Dance, Ian Hart and Julia Roberts.  Unfortunately some events
portrayed in the film are historically incorrect and you get the feeling
they were only included to add more drama to the film.

This is definetly a film worth watching and the DVD is even better,
featuring a documentary on the real Michael
Collins.
<|_=00=_|>
In one of his truly humble moments, the title character (Liam Neeson)
explains it goes beyond the brutality of the British, the denial of
rights and the non-stop mistreatment. It's about the fact that he had
to put a gun in a young man's hand, the fact that violence he realized
was the only way to end all violence. Fighting fire with fire, so it
seems, and this story of the fight for an Irish republic in 1916 is an
example for the fight to ensure oppression. It's bloody and blunt, a
sweeping epic, and lightly romantic. While I could not attest to the
truth of everything I see on screen, it's extremely cinematic, and
probably the best film I've seen on the British and Irish conflicts.

Liam Neeson is probably one of the greatest actors to come out of
Ireland, and having seen him in several plays on Broadway can say he's
not only handsome, but sensually masculine, a trait that you notice
more on screen that explodes on stage when it is noticeably apparent.
As Michael Collins, Neeson is philosophical and profound, romantic and
loyal, tender yet masculine. He's a man standing by his ideals, willing
to loose his life if it makes an impact. He's surrounded by the most
incredible cast within the movement, including Stephen Rea (reunited
with director Neil Jordan after "The Crying Game"), Aidan Quinn and
Alan Rickman. As for Julia Roberts, I did hear her loose her Irish
accent a couple of times, but mostly, she stays in character.

I would have to research this subject really closely to understand all
of the political and social in's and out's of the conflict, but this
indicates that it went back centuries and would continue. So I can just
examine this from my little knowledge of the subject, and it rings
true. Sometimes a bit too true, with tortures presented grimly and
sudden attacks from both sides spilling blood into the streets and the
last moments of a man's life presented with the horror of the knowledge
of impending assassination. It's both heartbreaking, regardless of what
side is being killed, and historically important, especially in an era
of extremely divided politics that is further dividing the world and
chewing up its soul. The moments I will not forget are the ones where I
barely breathe watching this, transfixed to the screen by the thought
that this could easily happen again... Anytime, anywhere.
