
This film was well put together, fun, and didn't take itself at all
seriously. I am not sure where the negative hype comes from, but I find
when a good film gets bad reviews, that means most people just didn't
get it. In this case, perhaps from the last few comic book films that
attempted to "mean something," I think people forgot how to enjoy
themselves. Laden with kitsch and tongue-in-cheek humor, this movie
embraces that it comes from a comic book and allows itself to be big
and a little silly. Yes, Jessica Alba wears an impossibly tight
jumpsuit. Yes, the Human Torch is so slick and charming that, if you
met him in real life, he'd get a solid smack for his arrogance. But
this isn't real life, people, in case you forgot-this is the Marvel
Universe, where clothes are tight and the dialog...isn't. Who cares?
This movie is so fun that you wish these people did exist and would
take some media focus off the jerks that are in the public eye.
<|_=00=_|>
In that there are Four of them. But Fantastic? More like "Mediocre", or
"Barely Adequate", or "Contractually Sufficient".

For once, the reviewers were right. This film is a big, rambling,
poorly conceived, sloppily scripted, shoddily acted pile of orange
rubble. Avoid it, or suffer the consequences.

It's hard to know where to begin, there's so much wrong with it. For a
start, the acting "talent" is AWOL. TV performers don't inevitably get
lost on the big screen, but this cadre evited it. Alba turns in the
exact same performance that she always does, going through her entire
range, from "pouty and petulant" to "petulant and pouty". Evans is
either a strutting superannuated fratboy poseur, or for some reason is
deliberately playing one so well that it's hard to tell the difference
- either way, his character is thoroughly irritating and utterly
unsympathetic. Chiklis is adequate, but is let down by the plain fact
that he's a round little man in a big rubber muscle suit. This was a
role for Ron Perlman, not Wimpy. Gruffudd is a huge disappointment; he
has no screen presence, and his slightly out-of-his-depth portrayal of
Hornblower is apparently the man, not the character. It would have been
better if he had been invisible, as he manages to fade into the
background with ease in every scene. McMahon is the only actor who
appears to be enjoying himself, but as he's barely in the film, he
can't rescue it.

The script was apparently in development for ten years. I can't see
why, as it's one scene, repeated ten times. If this is the refined
version, I shudder to imagine what the raw cut would have been like. I
find it hard to believe that the lines were written by, or for, adults.
There's no real plot to the film, or even a story beyond "Nasty self
absorbed un-credible astronauts become nasty self absorbed un-credible
'super' heroes, then argue with each other for a while, take their
clothes off for no reason, then beat up some poor disfigured guy
apparently because he didn't join their little gang, roll credits."
Direction and cinematography was Filmschool #101, the score was
instantly forgettable, and the editing was appalling, with the pacing
in particular being random and rushed.

The effects were only what we've come to expect from a hundred million
dollar movie, which brings me to the big question: what on earth did
they spend all that money on? It wasn't on the "talent", either
on-screen or off, it certainly wasn't on the rubber suit, and the
effects couldn't have cost that much - or if they did, they were
seriously over-charged.

I have an idea where at least some of the budget went. From IMDb's
Trivia section: "Contains over 25 cameos from real life employees of
Fox television affiliates." And I strongly suspect that the IMDb
records for this movie contain about 2,5000 comments and ratings and
mutual approvals from about five of those real life employees. Reading
the top recommended comments, most of which have 10 ratings, reveals a
depressing pattern of almost identically styled raves from the likes of
"top10dude" and "BigTenPower" with embarrassingly obvious track records
of enthusing about, you guessed it, other shoddy Fox movies. When
someone rates Elektra a 10, you have to just snort in disbelief at the
audacity of it.

I guess it's a pretty good investment for Fox, but this kind of
astroturfing drastically reduces the usefulness of IMDb as an early
review source. With time, this awful, foul mess of a movie will no
doubt settle to its rightful place near the bottom of the ratings pile,
but it's likely that the shill reviews will stay stubbornly at the top
of the recommended pile for a long time to come. Beware; consider the
source.

[2013 update] To this day, the top 'recommended' comment is an early 10
rating from a member who signed up to IMDb just to rave about this one
film using the minimum allowed size of review, and then never
contributed again. What dedication!
<|_=00=_|>
During a failed experiment in space, Reed Richards (Ioan Gruffudd), Sue
and Johnny Storm (Jessica Alba and Chris Evans), Ben Grimm (Michael
Chiklis) and Dr. Victor Von Doom are bombarded by cosmic rays, changing
their molecular systems and giving them superpowers. Four of them
become the superhero team, the Fantastic Four, while Doom becomes their
new enemy. 

The Fantastic Four is far from fantastic but it does make for decent
entertainment. The movie is very light-hearted and it isn't complex at
all. This is good news and bad news. The good part is that the film
doesn't take itself so seriously and the movie ends up being mildly
enjoyable. On the other hand, it becomes silly and cheesy with
laughable acting and events. Also, the movie is actually kind of dull.
There are some fun spots (like the bridge scene) but there is really no
spark to the film. The blame should go to Tim Story and his lack of
imagination. He keeps the film bland and dull but he shouldn't get all
the blame. He is working with a cheesy and weak script courtesy of
Michael France and Mark Frost. If the writing had been a little better
and the direction a little sharper then the film could have been better
but it stands as a mediocre one. 

The acting is a mix bag with some good performances and a couple of bad
ones. Chris Evans gives the best performance as Johnny Storm. He seems
to be having a blast and his performance is contagious. It's also nice
to see something different. Usually in super hero movies, the
superheroes are moody and they just want a normal life, which isn't a
bad thing. However Johnny Storm actually wants to show off and he
considers his new powers to be a blessing and not a curse. On the
opposite side of Johnny Storm, you have Ben Grimm played by Michael
Chiklis. He is the exact opposite and he wants to give rid of his
powers. His situation is pretty sad since his fianc√© leaves him and
it's hard for him to really live a normal life. Chiklis gives a good
performance and it was a little heartwarming. Jessica Alba gives a bad
performance as Sue Storm. She is unconvincing as a scientist and her
emotions feel fake. Ioan Gruffudd is actually somehow worse and he
can't really act. His chemistry with Jessica Alba is almost non
existent. The only other person worth mentioning is Julian McMahon and
he plays Dr. Victor Von Doom. I think he makes a good bad guy and he
gives a decent performance. 

Despite the lack of quality in the film, Fantastic Four is pretty
harmless. There is nothing here that should really offend anyone and it
works better with kids than with adults or teenagers. The film has some
things going for it though. The special effects are at least above
average and the movie provides decent eye candy. As previously noted,
there are some performances that stood out so the whole experience
isn't a complete waste of time. However, The Fantastic Four is still a
disappointment. In the end, the movie is worth a rental at the most, in
my opinion. Rating 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand the reason behind the bad reviews & comments given
to this movie, I mean this movie was pretty good, i think one of the
main reasons behind it is that Fantastic Four was never popular as some
of the other Marvel comics, so people didn't really care to see this as
much as Spiderman or X-men, personally Ben Grimm was one of the more
outstanding characters, Jessica Alba as Sue Storm was one of the main
reasons for me watching the movie for obvious reasons. Chris Evans as
Johnny Storm was pretty funny throughout the whole movie. I really
enjoyed the movie from start to finish. It was very much an
entertaining movie, but maybe fell to short in time, it could've been a
little longer but it seemed to finish a little to quickly. My main
point to this review is to inform people just to watch this movie with
an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
The Fantastic Four was a pretty good superhero movie but it lacked
something. I do not think it truly lived up to it's endless hype from
early this year. Aside from a few scenes that stick out, most are in
the trailer, there is not much there other than some slick special
effects sprinkled about. It is understandable, however, due to the fact
that this film is about the origin of 5 different individuals and how
they gained their super powers. I imagine the next one (of course, if
there is a next one) will be more action packed.

As for a quick rundown of the story, 5 people are sent into a space
ship to gather information that would be helpful in curing diseases and
other good stuff. The crew consists of Ben Grimm (Michael Chiklis),
Reed Richards, (Ioan Gruffudd), Johnny Storm (Chris Evans), Sue Storm
(Jessica Alba) & Victor Von Doom (Julian McMahon). While in the space
station, the super cosmic storm hits hours earlier than expected and
all 5 are caught in the storm, forever altering their DNA (or something
like that). The one that got it the worst was Grimm.

The standouts from this movie are The Thing/Ben Grimm, Johnny
Storm/Human Torch & Sue Storm/Invisible Girl. The Thing & Torch stand
out because of both their characters and personalities & Jessica Alba
stands out pretty much just because she is Jessica Alba.

I feel that Reed Richards was more of an annoyance in the movie and not
as likable a character as, say, the Human Torch. Also, I fear that Dr.
Doom will probably forever be compared to the Green Goblin from
Spider-Man, due to the hokey masks and all. Also, the voice for Doom
did not quite fit for me. I am not sure if his voice is supposed to be
that docile or not, but I always pictured a deeper, more menacing voice
for him.

I do hope this movie is not as criticized as movies such as Hulk or
Daredevil. This movie was not that bad, probably not even as bad as I
have made it seem. I would rate it somewhere in between X-Men and
Daredevil. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! Just WOW! Let me start by saying I'm not a regular Fantastic Four
reader, but I am a huge superhero fan and I've been reading comic books
and watching superhero movies since the mid seventies. Spider-Man's my
favorite, so I'm familiar with the FF characters from team-ups,
crossovers etc. A few days ago I was visiting a friend in NYC and he
treated me to a special advance showing of the Fantastic Four.

Now I've been watching superhero movies since the original Superman,
and year after year, film after film, they've gotten close, but there
always seems to be something missing. With Spider-Man, for example, I
liked it, but I thought the Goblin could have been much better and Toby
M. made a great Peter Parker, but mediocre Spider-man.

But the Fantastic Four . . . this one seemed to finally put it all
together. The good guys were good (without being goody-goody) the bad
guy was bad (without being a caricature) the setting was grounded and
realistic (not an altered reality like the early Batman films) allowing
just enough suspension of disbelief where it was really needed. Sure
there were moments that could be questioned: "Would that really happen?
Would he really say that?", but it's just about impossible to make an
ambitious film like this without a few moments like that. What I really
loved is they had POWERS, and they used them. You didn't get the
feeling (as you did with X-Men for example) that they were being held
back. They looked like they were coming right off the comic page.

Here's a little breakdown: Chris Evans/Human Torch - Amazing. I think a
lot of credit has to be given to whoever did the casting on this one.
No offense to Mr. Evans, but I got the feeling that playing an
over-the-top superstar thrill seeker wasn't much of a stretch for him -
if it was I really owe him a tip of the hat, but he seemed completely
natural in the role. If Sam Raimi had thought to put Chris E. in the
Spider-Man suit and let Toby M. play Peter P., we might have had a very
interesting film. And kudos to the special effects department on this
one, when the Torch "Flames On" you can practically feel the heat
coming off the screen.

Michael Chiklis/Thing - Again, the casting was perfect on this. Michael
C. WAS the Thing. He made you feel his pain, but he didn't wallow in
it. While I thought they might do this with CGI, I'm glad they didn't.
MC brought a depth and realness to the character that no computer could
hope to match. There were a few moments when the suit didn't look quite
right, but it was never enough to destroy the moment.

Ioan Gruffuld/Mr. Fantastic - Ioan G. did a good job, but he didn't
have as much to work with as the other characters. He was believable
and likable, but not a standout with everything else that was going on.
The special effects were well done, but since your brain knows people
can't actually stretch, it never quite looked "real". Still, to the
filmmakers credit, they didn't hold back, and there were scenes (such
as a fight with the Thing) that had me sitting slack jawed and amazed.

Jessica Alba/Invisible Woman - Jessica A. is simply breathtaking to
look at. Now that I've said that, I feel a little less guilty saying
her acting, while not bad, was a little flat. Still, she brought a
special quality to the character, and many, many men and boys will walk
out of the theater in love with her. The invisibility/force field
effects were generally well done, but not quite what I expected, and at
times I found myself wishing they had done them a bit differently.

Julian McMahon/Dr. Doom - Like many fans, I had been hoping for Doctor
Doom - RULER OF LATVERIA, but in the context of this film, you can see
that it wouldn't really have worked. This is an origin piece. The
Fantastic Four aren't really the Fantastic Four yet. They're just a
bunch of confused geeks trying to figure out who and what they are.
Doctor Doom - RULER OF LATVERIA would have dispatched with them before
breakfast. The ending, however, perfectly sets up a sequel (and I'm
almost certain there WILL be a sequel - this film is too good not to
get one) in which the a mature Fantastic Four can face a mature Dr.
Doom. For this film, Julian M. was subtle yet powerful. He wasn't a
cartoon bad guy, but a real bad guy. The kind you've met before who
will shake your hand and look you in the eye while he's sticking a
knife in your back. His relationship with Sue is creepy and it really
defines his character. Everyone in the audience can see that he doesn't
even understand what love is. To him, love is possession. Toward the
end, he becomes truly frightening, but it's not a jump like some
villains. You could see the evil smoldering below the surface from his
first on-screen moment.

Overall, the film was well balanced and a LOT of fun. It was very funny
at points, it was very heart rending at other points. Dramatic, intense
and exciting. Remember that moment in Star Wars when Han Solo came back
to help Luke blow up the Death Star. Remember how you just cheered an
celebrated with the heroes? That's how this film made me feel.

I'm afraid I'm not eloquent enough to describe just how much I loved
this movie. While not perfect, the sum total of the parts created a
great, memorable experience.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was all over the place, the story was stupid, the character
development was crap, the action scenes doesn't make sense, the editing
of the movie is horrible.

The movie failed to make you feel sympathy with the characters, you
can't identify with any of them, it felt as if you started watching
from the middle of the movie.

The action scene on the bridge was amazingly stupid and pointless, the
thing causes terrible car wreck on the bridge trying to save someone
from killing himself and then the fantastic four all use their powers
to save people, that action scene felt all wrong and ridiculous.

The scene with the motocross and the human torch was also pointless.

The movie suffers this tough criticism because it disappointed so many
people so much.
<|_=00=_|>
FANTASTIC FOUR 

Now honestly, I knew I couldn't expect much when I rented this movie,
but all I wanted was stupid entertainment. But this movie was so
terrible and simple that it was confusing.

This has to be one of the most god-awful screenplays that Hollywood has
ever produced. Being completely honest... I could have written a better
screenplay and directed a better film.

The Fantastic Four as a comic-book has enormous cinematic potential
because it takes a group of super-heroes who are reluctantly thrust
into their roles as super-humans... however, their stories are even
stronger b/c of the honest and deep family dynamic they hold as a team.

Every piece of that is lost in this translation to film. In order to
set up a good franchise, they should have taken the time to explore who
these people are before and during their mission to space. Reed's
mission isn't described to the audience as anything deeper than "if we
head into space and get a testing from a space cloud, we can help
people live longer". That's honestly the most detailed description of
his mission.

And the dynamic between Reed and Sue Storm is never actually apparent
between the actors... there are only random moments of dialogue that
spoon feed the audience the most elementary tension between them.

Basicall the film is a giant waste of a source material that could have
made a great film. It's filled with implausibilities and unexplained
errors... for example: - Why could Reed's every-day, cotton shirts
stretch to unbelievable lengths along with his body? However, in order
for Jessica Alba to become invisible she must strip off her clothes...
yeah, very subtle... hot chick gets naked...

- What was the point of The Thing (Michael Chiklis) saving the one
suicidal man on the bridge? B/C in the process of doing so he destroys
about 10 cars and probably kills numerous people on the highway.

- How did The Thing manage to change himself back into his deformed
self without anyone to push the button? - What was with all the
BLATANT, BLATANT, BLATANT product placements? Pathetic.

- If they were in quarantine, how did Chris Evans managed to take that
awful actress from ACCESS Hollywood not only out of the building... but
in a ****ing helicopter on a huge mountain? Aside from all of this, the
performances are awful. The only actor who comes out slightly unscathed
is Chris Evans as Johnny Storm/"Human Torch"... he obviously got to
ad-lib some lines which gave him the best dialogue in the film. Jessica
Alba is not only completely wrong for the role of Sue Storm (with a
good screenplay this is the kind of role that should be played by Naomi
Watts or Charlize Theron... she's supposed to be maternal and wise).
Whoever played Mr. Fantastic should never work again. Micheal Chikless
as The Thing offers one of the worst performances ever given while
wearing such a ridiculous costume (The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
were played better). And Julian McMahon as Dr. Doom wasn't scary for a
single frame.

I can't tell if it's all to blame on Tim Story, the director *cough
cough. I can tell you this is about one of the least talented young
directors working today... TAXI and FANTASTIC FOUR, greeeeat resume
buddy.

Honestly, I knew I couldn't expect much... but the universal awfulness
of this movie was just ridiculous. Not once was it exciting, funny, or
tense. It just wasted two hours of life. And it's extra disappointing
b/c I can picture in my head how great of a film could have been made
from the source material.

Awww well... Hollywood blew a good opportunity and everyone involved
made a fool of themselves doing so. Too bad.

... F ...
<|_=00=_|>
I'm your average guy, I don't read comic books, and I usually don't
comment about movies. Here is some thing a lot of people who gave this
movie a bad review might not understand. The Fantastic 4 is a great
movie!!! Especially for people who are too young to remember the comic
books or the show!!! I remember when I was 9 years old, The Fantastic 4
used to be on late night on Cartoon Network. That was the only time I
remember hearing about them or seeing them on a main stage. 

Ten years later, a smile comes to my face when I hear about a movie
being made about the superheroes I vaguely remember loving as a child.
I don't read comic books. I could care less about the comic book
accuracy. I just wanna see some guy burst into flames, fly, and say
smart** comments. 

Spiderman didn't do it for me, X-Men didn't, the only Batman movie I
truly enjoyed was Batman Forever (Robin was cool, and Christian Bale
didn't even act in Batman Begins.) I've never enjoyed a superhero movie
more than the Fantastic 4. It's got such a simple formula: What would
you do if you woke up one morning with superpowers? Each character was
real. Johnny was an adventurous guy before the accident, of course he's
not going to stay cooped up in Reeds lab all day. Reed was a geek, he
stayed a geek the whole movie. Sue was like... the "dude, I totally
wanna do your mom" type. She was responsible and everything... and she
looked so hot in that cat suit. Ben was great as the family man who
goes through the trauma of losing his wife and being out-casted.

I loved the Fantastic 4 because each character goes through their own
issues, but the dramatic bull**** doesn't eclipse all the awesome
action. I hated Spiderman because Peter still looked like a dopey, love
sick, puppy even when he was kicking some bad guy buttocks. This movie
had the right balance of emotion and butt-kicking. 

The actors had such great chemistry! The scene after Johnny goes to the
motocross contest was priceless. It was basically: This is how you
bicker with superpowers. 

The scenes with the Thing adapting to life with big fingers was great.
You can't just wake up one morning bigger than life and expect to be
able to do everything normal. The scenes with Sue stripping down in the
middle of the street were so true. Is there a better way to get away
from a crowd than turning invisible and stripping off all your clothes?
The little things like all of Johnny's clothes burning, the tabloids,
the action figures, the way the Thing squeezed a huge bundle of oranges
for his juice in the morning, all those things make this movie great.

When you see the Fantastic 4, it's like you're watching 4 people's
lives change through a hidden camera. They're doing their normal,
everyday stuff... except with wicked cool powers.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, you weren't expecting greatness, were you? Regardless of what the
wider public might be expecting from Fantastic Four, in internet
circles it's been earmarked as the potential stinker amidst a promising
summer since the first details leaked online. Unlike successful
superhero franchises like X-Men and Spider-man, there's no respected
director and no attempt to give the film a thematic depth or real world
resonance. Where they had acting heavyweights, Fantastic Four has a
couple of notable talents from successful TV series and a couple of
almost-stars, with broad appeal but little charisma to bring to the
mix. So the first question you might want answered is, "Is it awful?"
Thankfully, no. Fantastic Four is simple, rather hollow, occasionally
boring and then it's over. But it's hard to deny that, in places, it's
also fairly entertaining.

The story, changed from the source, sees five ludicrously-named
scientists venturing into space to investigate a large cloud of special
effects that has something to do with DNA. The team manage to get all
their character back-stories, exposition-based conversations and
marriage proposals out of the way in good time, before turning their
attention to some rather vital defence shields. Too late, guys. Now
you've been hit by the marauding cloud and you're back on earth (there
wasn't much budget, it seems, for showing the there-and-back trips...
space is but a quick cut away).

The characters quickly discover their powers - team leader Reed
Richards can stretch his limbs at will, Sue Storm can disappear and
fire force fields, Johnny Storm can burn himself alive and whizz about
the skies, and Ben Grimm turns to stone and breaks stuff. Cool? Nearly.
There's an rather archaic nature to these superpowers - childhood
dreams from a long gone era - but the film neatly modernises them by
distracting us with some extreme sports. The kids might love it, but
they're really only notable as the one place director Tim Story uses
slow motion in the entire film. Rather proud, were we, of what looks
like the only real stunt in the film not juiced up with CGI? And then
there's the bad guy. Victor Von Doom was probably never born to do
good, but now he's lost his money and his wife and turned into metal.
So he's mightily annoyed, and while the world welcomes the Fantastic
Four with open arms, he sets about doing some violence to people and
eventually tries to take down the Four.

Pretty slim on plot there, and the only gaps are taken up by scenes of
the guys coming to terms with their new powers. Strangely, their
initial response to them makes you wonder if they've seen the trailer -
there's no sense of surprise. They barely seem to care until they leave
the lab and return to New York.

Johnny, with the flashiest abilities, is the only one to really embrace
them, showing off and being rather endearing with it. The others are oh
so desperate to get back to normal, which in the case of Reed and Sue
seems rather stupid - they can do some cool stuff, but otherwise,
pretty much live as normal Lucky them (although Reed, as the stretchy
Mr Fantastic, could really do with the power to look convincingly
attached to the rest of his body whenever he's stretching). The only
character with real issues is Michael Chiklis' Grimm, clad in stone and
called The Thing. Daily life becomes a problem for this rocky beast,
but the film clamps him with a ludicrous subplot where his wife turns
up at the scene of the gang's first act of heroism, and having seen her
hubby save the lives of a fire engine full of FDNY guys, decides to
hand back her wedding ring before even asking what's happened to the
man she promised to love for ever. It's ludicrous, and makes The
Thing's constant grump hard to connect with - sure, it might not be
great to look like that, but met with her reaction, you'd expect him to
develop a screw you attitude to the world and embrace his power for
kicking holes in walls. A shame, really, because Chiklis' is the best
performance in the movie by far, even as the film occasionally demeans
the man who played Vic Mackey with bird crap jokes and suchlike.

The proceedings have a rather slapped together feel (characters appear
in the right places by coincidence and fill in plot holes for
themselves) until the action kicks in, and almost all of it is crammed
into the closing ten minutes. Between the FDNY-saving bridge set-piece
(in glorious daytime, showing the limitations of some rather dreadful
FX work) and the nighttime city-streets showdown, there's little to get
you particularly excited - just super-heroic shoe-gazing. That said,
the finale is rather satisfying, with Johnny's flaming acrobatics
delivering some of the highs of Spider-man's web-slinging antics across
Manhattan. The team join forces to defeat the bad guy and it's home
time.

Like X-Men, Fantastic Four feels rather like the setup for a sequel,
now that the characters are in place. Sadly, where X-Men had a heart
and a brain, Fantastic Four has some good-looking young actors showing
plenty of flesh (although my highlight was Chiklis' wild forest of a
bare chest, not Chris Evans' constantly-on-display gym-toned torso) and
a bit of product placement where the emotional attachment should have
been (Whopper, anyone?). At least X-Men's build up of characters made
me want to know what happened to the mutants next. As for the Fantastic
Four, pleasantly though they passed the time, I couldn't give care less
about what the future holds for them.
