
First off, I have to say that I really like the idea of Rock-a-Doodle.
The basic story of the rooster having to save his farm from eternal
darkness and rain by crowing the sun up could have made for such a
great movie. But I feel that, as it was, it wasn't nearly as good a
movie as it could have been.

A huge part of my problem with this movie was the main character,
Edmund. This kid/cat is so darn annoying. His speech impediment got
very old very fast, and it just felt like he was trying way too hard to
sound cute. Also, as another reviewer pointed out earlier, he belabored
to death the fact that he was "too little" to do pretty much anything,
which became irritating.

It was also bothersome that this movie couldn't decide whether it
wanted to be a full-blown musical or not. The Chanticleer/King songs
were fine, because they were part of the whole singing rooster story.
But it seemed that the other random songs were pretty unnecessary. The
owls' songs were bad enough, but did they really feel the need to have
the bit with the bouncer toads' song?? These random musical numbers
felt like they came out of some particularly bad Gilbert and Sullivan
operetta. If they really wanted to make this movie a musical, they
needed to have some real full-length songs instead of those short
musical snippets given to the villains.

But by far, my biggest problem with this movie is that it's just not
very good at storytelling. It was fine that Patou (Phil Harris in his
last role!) narrated the story. However, at times, they relied too much
on the narration to tell us things instead of showing us. This is
especially true in the whole Goldie subplot. Patou told us that a)
Goldie was a lot smarter and nicer than she seemed at first and b) that
she was really falling for Chanticleer although she was only supposed
to fake it. It really would have helped Goldie's character development
if there had been scenes where she was gradually acting smarter and
nicer. And the movie would instantly have been better, I believe, if
there had been a scene showing the moment where Goldie knew that she
was in love with Chanticleer for real instead of just having narration.
As it was, it felt like Goldie was just tacked onto the movie so that
Chanticleer could have a love interest.

There's a good movie somewhere in Rock-a-Doodle. And I won't deny that
it was a special part of many people's childhoods. However, for the
reasons above (as well as others I don't care to bore you with), it
just didn't live up to that potential, and turned out to be just
another mediocre-to-bad kids' movie.
<|_=00=_|>
if children's movies were meant to be judged the same way that adult
movies are then we would have nothing that children could grasp with
there imagination. this film had more or my friends, and cousins glued
to the TV than any other children's movie i have seen and i have seen a
lot of them. this film has imagination, it has color, it has a good
story, it tells the tail of the King himself Elvis Arron Presley in a
way. this film was one of my favorites that i ever saw as a child and
no one will convince me that it wasn't a good film considering that
this film helped me pass time on both good and bad days. it is at least
deserving of some credit for the fun filled story contained in it.
lighten up people children's films are not designed around being able
to entertain people our age as would movies that we would normally
comment on. at least i don't treat children's films that way. a good
film for children of all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is awesome! People can be so mean. "There was a plot-hole,"
"This movie was cheesy," "The animation sucked." How can you NOT love a
Rooster posing as Elvis? I loved this movie when I was a little girl
and I recently rediscovered it hiding in my garage. Now I'm 18 and I
decided to watch it w/ my sister who's 6. She adored the movie and I'm
proud to say I still do too. Even my 12 year old brother likes it. As
far as plot holes. There aren't any, it's a KIDS' movie! I love the
songs and find so many of the characters so lovable. I don't see
anything wrong with the animation, I love the way Chanticleer and the
Duke are drawn. And the pathetic, vocabulary confused, Hutch is so
funny. The ending is a little weird, but so what? So back off haters!
Rock-A-Doodle is a great, fun movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Rock A Doodle is a fun loving story about the sun not coming up.
Chanticlear, the Rooster (a knock of Elvis) is in charge of crowing for
the sun to come up, however one day he was disturbed and didn't crow.
Since the Sun came up without him all his farm friends called him a
fake. Having no where else to go he went to the city to find work,
leaving the farm to the owls. Meanwhile in the real world, a flood is
brewing and a little boy named Edmand tries to call Chanticlear, but
got the Duke Owl. He turns the young boy into a cat and joins up with a
dog, bird and mouse to go find Chanticlear and beat the darkness and
find the sun. This is a great tale, especially for little kids. It
teaches them about friendship and to never give up hope.
<|_=00=_|>
Ha.......beware of the long rant of a hugely biased Bluth fan...

Fine, warned ya, didn't I? ^_-

First of all, I don't really see why people hate this movie so much. I
don't see what's so bloody confusing about it....unless people are
really that simpled-minded that they can't understand a plot as simple
as "a live-action boy joins the animated world in order to bring back a
hero who can save them from darkness and destruction." That's it.
........yeah, what exactly is so hard to understand about that?

And.....they're criticizing the animation? LOL These same people who
love American Tail and the Land Before Time are actually criticizing a
film WITH THE EXACT SAME TYPE OF ANIMATION!? Seriously, use your common
sense, people!! No, rather, use your EYES! It's the SAME!! Okay, fine,
the live-action parts MIXED with the animation does look cheap. But
it's old!! And of course it doesn't look as good as it did with Roger
Rabbit! That movie was one of the most expensive movies ever made in
all of film HISTORY!! Bluth didn't have that kind of budget, okay?!
Besides, it lasts for all of twenty seconds, so suck it up and
fast-forward if you hate looking at it so much, geeze!!

Don't believe all the bad reviews you have read on here. The animation
is not horrible, the characters are not annoying OR ugly, the songs are
not bad, and the voice actors are CERTAINLY not untalented! Believe you
me, being a fan of animated classics from the time I was barely able to
talk to now, (in my 20s) adults can appreciate this movie JUST AS MUCH
if not more, than a child can. I have sat through BAD voice-acting,
(early dubbed anime, anyone!?) horrible songs, terrible characters,
awful, FLAT animation, the whole lot....and Rock-a-Doodle shines like a
gem next to these. 

Another reviewer on here just asked, "Why watch this when you can be in
a world with Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, and Pinnochio?

My answer is simply this:

"Because it's DIFFERENT and I'm freaking sick of those fairy tales that
everybody's seen a thousand versions of before they have even reached
the age of TEN, damn it all!". The problem is, everyone's treating this
as a Disney film when it's not. It's Bluth. Bluth is not Disney. He
never WILL be. And I don't want him to be, either! See, this is why I
adore Don Bluth so much and consider him to be the finest animator and
director in America. Don Bluth's films are SO different, SO
sophisticated, SO unique, SO non-clich√©, and above all, SO magical.
Yes, "magical" is really the best way to describe a Bluth film...and
ever single one he's directed delivers the magic...so much that just
from watching a couple seconds of random animation, you can immediately
recognize that Bluth had something to do with it.

I will say that Disney can take you on a journey through
storybooks...even through history, perhaps...but you still feel like
you're just watching something.....artificial? It's meant to entertain,
be bright, happy, make you laugh and dance then cry..then laugh some
more...and then it's over. 

But what Bluth does.....it's something much more valuable...much more
surreal: he takes you on a journey through DREAMS. Yes, watching a
Bluth film is very much like being in a dream. It's beautiful...yet
bizarre...bright...yet dark...calming...yet terrifying....
Rock-A-Doodle is exceptionally GOOD at being a film that feels like a
dream. Its awesome random, wonderful strangeness is right up there with
"The Secret of NIMH" and my eternally top-favorite, "All Dogs Go To
Heaven". And I can tell you right now: every single scene feels more
memorable than an entire Disney movie. When I watched this movie just
last week to relive my childhood, I found out that I appreciated it
even MORE and that it was much more enjoyable to watch than the Disney
movies that were created around the same time!!

I can understand that some people don't like this just because it's
too...WEIRD for them...which I agree. It IS weird. But see, I love
weird. I love bizarre. I love strange. I love being treated as an adult
and actually having to use my brain.....during a KID'S film.

If you're tired of that same-old-same-old protective Disney bubble that
doesn't really let you think outside the box and want something really
interesting and out of the ordinary, PLEASE give this movie a look. You
won't regret it. If you're a Bluth fan, THIS IS A MUST-SEE.

My rating for each aspect of Rock-A-Doodle:

Animation: 10 It's Don-freaking-BLUTH Characters: 8 All main ones are
likable, unique, and fun. The Duke is a GREAT villain especially!

Sound: 10 It's a musical of course! Not all the songs are given
attention like in most musicals though. Some are very short to give you
a short laugh or two and some just serve as background music while main
points about the characters are being pointed out to you. This is
refreshing for those who get tired of song after song in animated
movies.

Story: 7 There's a plot hole or two, seemingly but based on what's
revealed at the end, that's entirely excusable!! (and all the critics
totally ignored this!!) 

Voice-actors: 10! Nothing to complain about here! Ganger's (Edmond)
childish voice is adorable, Duncan (Peepers) and Deezen (Snipes) are
priceless, Reily's (Hunch) hysterical, Campbell as Chanticleer just
plain rocks and Chris Plummer should have gotten an award as The Duke
because he's outstanding.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry if people disagree with me here but I think Rock a Doodle is
absolutely immense! I watched it as a small kid and recently found it
only to discover how awesome it truly is. I would have to say though
that the films best feature is the evil Grand Duke. He is quite
possibly the best villain in cartoon history. Seriously, this film has
become kinda obscure but you should definitely check it out! It has
energy, warmth, great songs and once more the animation is so unique
that it sticks in your head for ages. The ideas are original and the
script is funny and emotional. The creators of this movie really found
the right ingredients to create the perfect family cartoon. This film
is an absolutely legendary piece!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This has got to be my favorite Don Bluth film. It's completely original
and still holds up to this day. While American Tail is probably his
best film, this movie is so bizarre and wonderful it has to be seen. It
starts live action then turns animated. In the live-action prologue, a
little boy named Edmond learns that the crowing of Chanticleer the
rooster did not make the sun rise, as everyone thought. But when a
flood threatens his family's farm, Edmond sets off to get Chanticleer
to make the sun rise and save the day. Just imagine alice in wonderland
with rock songs, a kitten, lasagna, and a rooster who channels Elvis.
Rock-a-doooooo!
<|_=00=_|>
Why do I review (or even watch) Don Bluth films? They're so depressing.
I haven't been happy with the man since The Land Before Time (Though I
briefly smiled for Anastasia. If only it weren't for that darn
Pooka...).

Our story begins in a book on a farm. Right away, The Farm is
identified as the perfect place to be, although there's no farmer, no
crops, and I don't recall seeing a barn. Everyone on this little farm
has a job. Of course, Chantacleer's job (to bring up the sun) is the
only job identified; everyone else just lays around or joins in when he
randomly belts out a tune.

You can imagine how obnoxious this can be after awhile, what with all
this random singing on the farm with no farmer. So obnoxious, the Grand
Duke of Owls has decided to kill them. Normally, this would be bad, but
after five minutes, it's pretty obvious that they'd probably be better
off dead. So he gets Chantacleer kicked off the farm, causing the sun
to down, and darkness to fall. Meanwhile, this Duke planning to eat all
these 'cute' creatures. For this, he's bad guy? Sounds pretty noble to
me. 

Meanwhile, in the real world, it's raining. This is somehow connected
to Chantacleer leaving in the story, but only Edmond, son of the
missing farmer, knows this. Everyone else figures it's just a random
flash flood (Oh how foolish. Don't all monsoons have to do with
barnyard fowl?). So he goes to the window and starts to scream for
Chantacleer at the top of his lungs. Who's the villain now, huh?
Anyhow, he hits his head, gets turned into a cat, goes on an adventure
in the city, finds the rooster (but not the farmer), and wakes up
muttering, "You were there, and you were there, and you were there..." 

There are several problems with what I refer to as the
Beginning-of-the-End for Bluth. But I beefed an awful lot in my
Thumbelina review, so I'll start off with the good: Some of the voices,
particularly Eddie Deezen (Who later immortalized Mandark) and Phil
Harris (Who deserved a better last bow than this.) are quite good.
Unfortuantly, they're undermined by Edmond (More on this later.).
Rock-a-Doodle does the thing Thumbelina never did: Make me laugh, and
that's why it gets a two instead of a one. One scene. The kitchen with
Hans and the Duke, where Uncle Dukie utters the line, "If I kill my
nephew, will it be murder or charity?" The pint sized pipsqueak and her
prince never even came close.

Now the bad. Edmond is completely unappealing. His speech impediment is
merely distracting as first, but by the "We'll all dwown." speech, he's
annoying as red ants up the butt. At times, you can't even understand
him (I have mixed feelings on that.). Hiring a kid with a speech
problem, just for the 'cute factor' is always a bad idea (Do you see
Mara Wilson and her lisp on the cover of People? Dakota Fanning, on the
other hand, talks clear as a bell, can actually act, and is worth ten
times her weight in gold.), unless it makes sense to the script (such
as in 'Paulie' where Paulie the Parrot helped the little girl with her
stutter.).

Hans the nephew, 'The funny character', isn't. The movie practically
forces him on us, and when it becomes obvious he's not working with the
script, we are actually reminded that he's supposed to be funny ("He
was more a hoot than he was dangerous." or something along those
lines.). Never, never, NEVER tell who your funny character is. Let the
audience find out for themselves. Or better yet, don't have a specific
'funny' man, but let everyone be humorous on their own in different
ways (Such as Monsters Inc.).

I guess the worse part is, we don't care. If I don't care about at
least one main character, or a character's motivations, or even what's
going to happen to that character, then the movie's failed.
Rock-a-doodle failed. I'm not sure it ever had a chance. And maybe
that's why the farmer ran away.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not that into Don Bluth films, but I know a lot about his films.
This is not one of his good works. Now Rock-a-Doodle is just bad, the
characters are annoying, the boy that turned into a cat he is annoying,
this character is making Jake Lloyd look less annoying and even the
magpie who I find the most annoying character in film history, EVEN Jar
jar is more funnier than this. Admittedly I would the Grand Duke of
Owls are the only two character that's are superior among all the other
annoying characters, lets start of with the Grand Duke he's voiced by
Christopher Plummer, who voiced Charles Muntz, the villain from Pixar's
Up, an animated film that's far more superior than this crap, also at
one point of the film that the duke force cokes the kid that turned
into a cat (HOORAY). Now the story has too many plot holes, making the
film super confusing.

Comparing this with "All Dogs Go To Heaven" I would say that this film
seemed mediocre but easier to sit through, while "Rock-a-Doodle" is
just bad.
<|_=00=_|>
OMG! this movies was like my favourite childhood movie! i absolutely
love(d) it! I haven't seen it in a while but I'm sure that when i do
which should be soon, ill be as much entranced as what i was those some
14 years ago! Excellent movie! Great entertainment! Chanticleer was
like my hero if u can believe that, i always used to pretend to be him!
Hat a great rooster...and that scene with the Aqueduct pipe??? Gotta
love it! This movie was so funny to me even though i probably didn't
get what they were saying most of the time! As soon as i get this movie
on DVD ill be staying inside for a cold lonely winter in front of my
TV! i have a date with a rooster! I could never get tried of this
movie! What a grand film to grow up with!
