
Marshall is the kind of President referred to a change in the U.S.
foreign policy He took a great risk when he stated that America will
no longer tolerate any terrorist government His policy is soon put in
practice when he boards his plane on his way home 

Once is in the sky, 'Air Force One' is hijacked and currently
controlled by Russian radicals who ask for the release of their leader
or they'll execute a prisoner every half hour 

Harrison Ford is the action hero making his way through the plane
taking out few terrorists, managing to free several hostages, trying to
get to his wife and daughter who are prisoners on board 

Gary Oldman almost steals the show as the head terrorist Ivan Korshunov
who takes over the president's plane

Beautifully directed by Wolfgang Petersen who controls the action with
his usual extreme intelligence, building the challenge with
captivating, tense sequences from every compartment of the huge
aircraft to the White House contingent in Washington
<|_=00=_|>
Air Force One features Harrison Ford, Glenn Close, Gary Oldman, Dean
Stockewell, and William H. Macy. A dream cast! In the freshest,
friskiest, funniest, laugh-out-loudest comedy of the year! Cheer as
President Harrison Ford takes on the baddies all by himself  "Right
now, he's our only hope". Hiss as Dean Stockwell tries to get Glenn
Close to sign away power and "take down Air Force One". Will she sign?
Like hell! Sigh with relief when the fax machine stalls, stalls a
little longer, and then just when we'd given up hope stalls a little
longer, and then works! Clap like a whacked-out space cadet on class-a
drugs when the fax lady parachutes to safety. Scratch your head a
little when you realise that the big plot device of the bad guys having
a guy on the inside is of no interest or use whatsoever. Ponder for a
long time just why Gary Oldman's character doesn't just shoot the wife
and the kid, for crying out loud. Marvel at the advances in special
effects technology that can make a plane crash in a big budget movie
look like a plane crash in a primitive video game. Thrills! Spills!
Drama! Action! Utter, utter, crap!
<|_=00=_|>
Nonstop action, thrilling suspense, dark humor, and a brilliant
concept, this flag waving over the top action adventure was a good two
hours in 1997.

The story: Enroute back to the States from Russia, Russian Nationals
hijack the President's plane and hold him and his family (as well as
most of his staff) hostage aboard Air Force One in order to release a
Rouge General captured earlier.

Harrison Ford from his first minute to his last looks comfortable in
his Presidential role. That's to say, Ford appears, acts and just plain
feels like he should be President. (Come one who saw this movie and
wanted him to run). Gary Oldman's performance as the main villain
(Ivan) should be up there with the likes of Alan Rickman's Hans from
Die Hard and John Malkovich's Leary-Booth-Carney from In the Line of
Fire (coincidentally directed by Wolfgang Peterson as well). Glenn
Close pulls of the Vice President role with smirks and spunk.

Stars aside I think the supporting cast should get an equal if not
harder pat on the back. These guysand girls. really made the movie.
They're the ones that brought the chuckles and caused gasps. Wendy
Crewson (The Good Son) nailed her role with more grace than a first
lady has actually shown in the last recallable years. Paul Guilfoyle
("CSI", The Negotiator), was the kind gentle, "best buddy",
chief-of-staff, who brought a small smile to your face every time he is
on-screen. Xander Berkeley ("24", Terminator 2), plays the chilling
secret service agent Gibbs. The lovable William H. Macy plays the
good-mannered Air Force Officer who puts himself in harm's way for the
President more time than the Secret Service agents do. He just doesn't
get enough screen time toward the beginning. And Dean Stockwell will
have you cussing under your breath as the power-hungry Secretary of
Defense. And it seems that Wolfgang Peterson watched every great
Action/Military movie of the past 3 years and hired all those "briefing
room generals". For this I applaud him. As for the terrorist, they
rival those of Die hard. Cold, stone-faced, funny, smooth, and just
plain hateable, they did their job.

The bulk of the movie takes place aboard the Air Force One no kidding
eh?). And boy do you believe it. The production designer (Williams
Sandell) obviously paid attention to detail, mimicking the real
Presidential Aircraft. Small, claustrophobic and believable.

Andrew W. Marlowe's script gets it job done as well. Nothing award
winning. It's everything you would expect given the story it has to
tell. Couple times it will make you cringe, but again, look what it
needs to accomplish.

The late Jerry Goldsmith's score for this movie is a hands down
classic. Only having two weeks to score the film after Peterson
rejected Randy Newman's work, Goldsmith with the help of Joel Mcneely
composed one of the most bombastic, riveting, emotional, suspenseful,
and patriotic scores I've heard come out of the film world. It works
perfectly with the movie.

A few times your mind is going to be stretch you may have to resort to
the "It's just a movie" mindset. Overall its fun. Not a bad way to
spend 2 hours. Harrison Ford for President.
<|_=00=_|>
Now I admired the director Wolfgang Petersen after seeing DAS BOOT.
This was a flick where I thought: Can't get any better. Of course, at
the time, people obviously considered Hollywood a smart career move,
but if we now take a look at Petersen's Hollywood films, I really think
he should have stayed in Germany. Sure, he wouldn't have the money that
he's having at his disposal now, but remember: DAS BOOT had a rather
infinitesimal budget and nevertheless managed to thrill, enlighten and
entertain millions of viewers. Now, what do we have: A German director
who directs patriotic and nationalistic filth that invites the average
American Joe to believe in the moral and military superiority of his
own country. A movie that doesn't really discuss the topics at hand and
divides the cast into good and evil with no shades of grey at all.
There's one scene where Gary Oldman as the terrorist aboard the plane
says to the president's daughter: Do you think your father is a better
man because he's wearing a tie and a suit and because he uses smart
bombs? I found this scene to be very interesting, however, in the film
it is not dwelt upon. Instead we get Harrison Ford playing the father
and leader of clean, wholesome politically America and being
politically correct and charming and funny and whatnot. What's the
moral of this film: God bless America and no place else.
<|_=00=_|>
**Warning** Possible Spoilers ** 

I gave this a 1 because IMDb wouldn't let me give it a zero.

I also must admit that I watched only 30 minutes of this piece of
garbage. The hijacking of the President's aircraft by terrorists posing
as Russian media was difficult to believe. That six people would be
able to carry off such a feat, given the number of secret service
agents that travel with the president, is highly unlikely. That
hundreds of rounds from automatic weapons and large-caliber handguns
could be fired on board an aircraft without affecting any critical
systems is debatable. That terrorists could blow the cockpit door open,
using some sort of plastic explosive, detonating it by firing a pistol
at it (hitting it on the first shot, no less!), yet not injure the
pilots or cause any damage to the flight deck is astonishing. When they
managed to take control of the plane during landing, perform several
off-road maneuvers with the plane that would make a Jeep proud, then
get a Boeing 747 airborne again without benefit of a runway, that's
when I went Popeye and decided I'd had all I could stand and I could
stand no more.

I can suspend my disbelief as well as the next guy, but this was just
asking too much.

I won't even go into the cheesy script and listless acting. Shameful.
<|_=00=_|>
Very entertaining action, once you get past the "believability"
problems, i.e., terrorists getting on the plane at all, the plane
having an on-board armory, Secret Service agents' inability to shoot
accurately, etc.

Acting is good enough that you care about the characters.

As others have noted, the CGI aerial sequences sometimes have the
aircraft moving in unnatural or impossible ways, and this is visually
jarring. (After the touch-and-go, Air Force One turns a 180 almost like
a helicopter) I gave it a 7 out of 10 - not brilliant, but makes for an
entertaining evening.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is intriguing in that it actually presages some of the
terrorism realized in the tragedy of 9/11.

That said, the film is mortally flawed with stupid and ridiculous
contrivances that make is more of a comic book yarn than having the
sophistication of, say, a Tom Clancy novel.

High on the "oh come on get real!" factor: 

1. Any White House PressSecretary would be far too astute to let a
self-describe TV journalist on Air Force One (AF1). The very first
thing they would do is check the reporter's credentials and
publication/broadcast record.

2. The spectacle of a 747 jumbo jet careering through an airport on an
aborted landing is simply light-years beyond absurd.

3. Why would AF1 have a stash of enough assault rifles to take over a
small country? And, with all the gunplay in the passenger cabin there's
not one bullet hole in the fuselage?

4. I have it on good authority that Air Force One does have
countermeasures, but putting the president in an escape pod  though
fundamental to the plot  it just inane. That's the *last* thing you
would do with the U.S. President at 30,000 ft.

5. Equally ridiculous is the idea that AF1 conveniently has more
parachutes onboard than the Titanic had life preservers. Just as silly
is the image of Washington bureaucrats easily jumping off the plane at
15,000 ft.

6. I've been inside an open, stripped-down 747 airframe, there isn't
nearly as much room as shown on the cargo deck. There certainly isn't
room for a cargo deck vending machine?! 

I could go on and on, but this film is another example of filmmakers
believing that movies goers are gullible enough to swallow any tall
tale for the sake of lots of action shots and melodrama. If you've
gonna concoct an action drama tale like this, at least have one foot in
reality and plausibility, or otherwise call it "science fiction."
<|_=00=_|>
Harrison Ford plays a president who refuses to negotiate with
terrorists. But after one terrorist (Gary Oldman) hijacks the Air Force
One and the president's wife and daughter, maybe he will have to
rethink his position.

Allegedly, Kevin Costner was supposed to be playing the president. Boy
am I glad he was too busy making "The Postman" for this movie. Not only
did he make a great Postman, but he would have made a horrible
president. When you want drama, you call Costner. When you want action,
you call Bruce Willis. When you want the perfect blend of drama and
action, you call Harrison Ford (think "The Fugitive", for example...
don't think "Star Wars").

Ford is great as a diplomat, but equally as good with a gun and in a
fight. But the real star of this is Gary Oldman, who plays an evil and
soulless terrorist determined to get his old general freed from prison.
Oldman plays it like he means it, killing mercilessly while still
appearing cold and calculated rather than insane. The writer even had
the decency to have Oldman deliver lines condemning the president for
bombing villages while being against terror.

Glenn Close and Dean Stockwell made great supporting stars, and even
William H. Macy seemed a little less flamboyant than usual in his role
as a military man.

This film is especially interesting in the context of our current
president, George W. Bush. Bush has also gone on record many times for
not negotiating with terrorists and takes a hardline approach similar
to Harrison Ford. What would Bush do if terrorists hijacked his plane
or kidnapped his family? Even giving me that visual image made this
film worth the viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
An Action movie is made to entertain, and should always be taken at
face value. With this in mind Air Force One hits the mark, despite some
minor flaws it still delivers tension, drama and action in abundance.

The cast is strong and full of believable characters, the story is
compelling and the traditional dose of sentiment is added sparingly and
to good effect. Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman both put in solid
performances and they are well supported by the likes of Glenn Close
and Wendy Crewson.

Overall Air Force One is an safe bet for the average movie fan and
should entertain most, without ever really excelling.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Air Force One is one great ride.  What makes it work so well is the
conviction that Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman bring to their roles.  You can
see in each actor's eyes that they stand behind what they believe in.  Gary
Oldman makes a perfect villian and a very complex one at that.  He is not
just an average, run of the mill madman.  He has a family, he is someone's
son and those facts make him that much more real.  Harrison Ford is great as
the president.  He's strong, quick witted, and will do anything he can to
save his family and staff from the hijackers.  A good ride that will keep
you on the edge of your seat for two hours, just as long as you don't ask
any questions.  
