
Every horror series has a black sheep. "Friday the 13th" had the
Jason-less fifth installment, "Halloween" the Michael Meyers-less third
entry, and "A Nightmare on Elm Street" the silly first sequel. For many
fans, "Child's Play 3" is the embarrassment of the Chucky saga. But
why?

So many reviews of this film express exacerbation, even confusion, over
the sudden shift eight years into the future. What's so hard to
understand? We had already had two movies with Chucky chasing a little
kid. It was time to move the story along, hence our hero Andy Barclay
(Justin Whalin) is now a teenager at a military academy. This change of
scenery was the breath of fresh air the series needed, as it opens up
all kinds of new options to the murderous doll, which he fully exploits
(paintball guns loaded with real ammo, anyone?).

Other reviewers complain this just isn't scary. There they have a
point, but how many gorefests actually bring our hands up to our eyes?
Scariness is a great complement, but that doesn't mean the whole
project goes down the tubes without it. "Child's Play 3" has a smooth
storyline, a touch of suspense and a truly memorable, original climax
at a carnival (though it doesn't quite surpass the doll factory finale
of the the previous film). Chucky's foul mouth begins to be a liability
rather than an asset, but we can cut him some slack -- he's certainly
never looked better (or more realistic).

"Child's Play 3" does have its ups and downs, however. The romance
between Andy and a fellow cadet is a distraction, and there are times
when our plastic star just seems brushed aside in favor of more serious
moments. Chucky's desire to swap souls with someone other than Andy is
a welcome change, but his new target, young Tyler, is one dimensional
and uninteresting. He's unable to carry his scenes like Alex Vincent,
who played child Andy in the first two films.

As far as I'm concerned, this was the last of the true "Child's Play"
films. Once this one was done, the series became a shameful, hokey
parody of itself. This entry is by no means perfect and it's certainly
not up the caliber of "Child's Play 2". Yet it's not the piece of trash
so many would have us believe. In fact, it may just be one of the most
underrated theatrical horror films of the early '90s.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to comment hell for this one. This comment will most likely
receive a very low "useful" rating, but I'm OK with that. This movie
was quite possibly my favorite of the Child's Play series. And although
you will probably not agree, you will see what I mean:

This movie takes place 8 years after the previous. Andy is now a teen
and has been sent to a military academy. And guess what: Chucky decided
to tag along. This makes for a great story. Chucky really shows his
true colors and sick, twisted sense of humor here. We also have an
interesting group of characters here, who are actually worth
mentioning. We have Andy of course, we have Tyler, a young cadet who
catches Chucky's eye as a replacement of Andy; there's DeSilva, a tough
girl who has a soft spot for Andy; we have Whitehurst, an outspoken,
nerdy type who quickly befriends Andy; we have Shelton, a
military-loving, tough, intimidating young man who has it in for Andy;
and we have Botnik, an older guy, the barber who loves his job just a
little too much. Together with these great characters is a great
setting. There are some very interesting kills here which I have not
even thought of or seen in any previous film. I do not understand why
this movie is so underrated. Is it because of the time lapse? Maybe
because Andy's not a kid? New setting? No matter what the reason, this
movie deserves much more than a 4.1 rating (as of 3/7/08). I say it
gets 9/10. Fans of the first 2 films will not want to miss this.
<|_=00=_|>
Gripping drama? Hell no.

Hilarious comedy? Nope.

Oscar Calaber Acting? Heh... yeah right.

But, really, this movie did not deserve to be slammed into the 3s. The
movie had everything a mediocre early 90s horror movie should have - a
plot you can follow without going cross-eyed, a few really gory death
scenes and a pinch of humor. This movie won't make you roll on the
ground laughing, but it will get your a chuckle here and there at
Chucky's antics.

The young actors also pull performances that's beyond tolerable - it's
flat out acceptable.

Absolutely great movie? No.

Absolutely horrible movie? No.

I was entertained and got exactly what I was looking for... thus it
earns a 7 from me. You want a horrible horror movie that deserves its
three - check out Leprachaun 4.
<|_=00=_|>

this is one of the films that u see when u are a kid n then you never
forget it... u get nightmares and never forget the face of that
notorious killer doll,Chucky. This is in my personal opinion the best
of the Child's Play series (1,2+3... Bride of chucky was pathetic) with
its more humorous approach on the whole killer doll idea as well as
being the more violent and macabre hence the '18' certificate. From the
funny/cool one-liners such as "Presto... your're dead", "nothing like a
strangulation to get the circulation going", and the one above in
online summary to Chucky's violent killings and chilling laughs you
know this is gotta be better than 1 and 2. the music goes alongside the
most chilling scenes well such as Chucky's resurrection in the factory
and scenes of death. His death scene at the end is also quite funny as
he is flapping his arm and legs around before he hits the large fan and
gets ripped 2 shreds! I personally regard this movie as one of my
favourite films of my life (hey I'm only 14) as I watched when I was 4.
I'm now looking forward 2 'Seed of Chucky'!

<|_=00=_|>
I never watched the Chucky series in sequence. I never used to like
them. I saw Seed of Chucky, Child's Play, Bride of Chucky, child's Play
2 and then Child's Play 3. Seeing as though this was the last that I
watched. I really was into Chucky and I thought it was a great addition
to the series, yes it's a bit "out there" but that's what's good about
Chucky. I'm not particularly into the military thing but this movie
made me appreciate it that bit more. I think it is good how it shows
Andy still hasn't gotten over his phsycological problems and that he is
still terrified of his old best friend. I liked this one better than
the original and I love the lines that Chucky says. For those who don't
think it's a good movie, I understand because I didn't enjoy it the
first time I watched it but now that I have seen it more I love it!!
<|_=00=_|>
Just when you MIGHT have thought - after watching an excruciatingly
long death sequence in Child's Play 2 - that Chucky was no more - he's
back(and with the clich√©) with a vengeance. How is he resurrected?
Well, apparently when eight years have passed the toy company reopens
their Good Guy doll factory, removes the cobwebs off of all the old
stock, pick the mutilated, dead Chucky doll up and pop him in a vat of
boiling plastics. The springs of Lourdes never had so much healing
power! This revives Chucky, and he instantly becomes his mean, killing
machine of old and wants to find Andy Barclay to take his soul. Andy,
played by Justin Whalin, is an older teenager now and enrolled at a
military academy. Well, not to get too bogged down in a script that
doesn't really merit such an intense analysis - Chucky finds Andy and
continues to basically do what he did in the two earlier films. Lots of
killing. Lots of wisecracks and that cackling laugh. Lots of the same.
I did like this film more though than the second installment. First of
all, the director did NOT repeat the problem of an overly long,
seemingly never-ending death scene. The military school makes for an
interesting backdrop to the story. The young actors do credible jobs.
There are some interesting , quirky characterizations from the rest of
the cast with Andrew Robinson stealing his scenes as a barber who
really enjoys shaving the heads of the cadets. In fact I loved the
little ponytails hung on the walls of his salon. A neat little
addition. The story is nothing special though, and the film is very
formulaic. It is entertaining if you - like me - have limited
expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
Another hit classic thriller/horror film into The Child's Play Series.
Child's Play 3 was a amazing comeback. The film is about Chucky who
returns again as a doll after being possessed by a serial killer. He
goes to search for Andy Barclay who has enrolled in a Military School,
he is now a teenager. Chucky's plan changes when he meets a younger boy
named Tyler he tried taking over his soul, but Andy will do whatever it
takes to stop Chucky before he transfers his soul into the innocent
Tyler.

After hearing about Child's Play 3 long time ago I thought that they
were going to re-cast Alex Vincent in this one when he became a
teenager because Alex Vincent always shined in the originals. We wanted
to see the story continue with Alex Vincent, but after seeing Child's
Play 3 it was too bad. The film had great performances by Justin Whalin
who starred as Andy and Jeremy Sylvers was great starring as Tyler. The
film was another Horror hit classic and Brad Dourif did great again
playing the voice of Chucky.

The film had different plot points and all new cast. Child's Play 3 was
good into The Child Play Series. I recommend this one to everyone as
well. Child's Play and Child's Play 2 with Alex Vincent amazing horror
classic. Child's Play 3 another great horror comeback.
<|_=00=_|>
I never really liked CHILD'S PLAY. That film was a modern re-imagining
of the classic possessed doll theme, which was so silly that it ended
up making me laugh. Aside from one scene where Catherine Hicks checks
the doll for batteries, the film failed to scare, not to mention having
a few plot twists that were just plain bad. Nevertheless the film was a
modest hit, which led to two sequels (which were actually better).

Six years after his last confrontation with Chucky the possessed doll,
Andy Barclay has been sent to a military school. At the same time, the
Play Pals toy factory has restarted its manufacturing of Good Guy
dolls. Chucky's soul possesses the first one built &, after killing the
Play Pals' president, mails himself to the military school. Andy must
now try once again to defeat Chucky before he can regain human form by
possessing one of the cadets.

Like I already said, the series has lost its spark, which is actually a
moot point since the creativity that made the first two films was
running on used petrol fumes. Child's Play 3 has the exact same plot as
its predecessors, with Andy Barclay trying once again to foil Chucky's
plan to regain human form by possessing a human child (although this
time around, Andy is no longer the target). While the original film
offered a twisted commentary on the popularity of large life-like dolls
& the second delved into the life of a foster family, this third film
looks into life at a military school. Thus we have scenes where Justin
Whalin arrives, only to be thrust into a harsh life, being singled out
for abuse by the local sociopathic cadets. As is usual with these
films, it's the Chucky show. This time, the doll kills his victims in
ways that would make Freddy Krueger laugh. The first scene, where the
president of the toy company is attacked by remote controlled toys,
slipping on some marbles & finally strangled with a yoyo string, is
quite creepy at first then turns routine (how does Chucky learn
computer skills?). The other kills are milked for all the dark humour
they contain ¬ñ Chucky crushes one victim in a garbage truck, slits the
throat of the demented hairdresser & kills the school's leader by
scaring him to death, saying "You've got to be ¬Ö kidding me" as he
watches the man die of a heart attack. Plus the way Chucky sabotages
the war games by switching the paintball rounds of the rifles with real
bullets is positively original.

The acting is decent enough for these sorts of films, with Justin
Whalin playing the outsider with a troubled past quite effectively.
Perrey Reeves & Dean Jacobson provide adequate support while Brad
Dourif (the only actor to star in all three films) is hilarious as
Chucky, once again proving to be the star of the show.
<|_=00=_|>
Set eights years after Child's Play 2, this sequel sees Andy Barclay
attending Military School and getting bullied by the drill sergeant
("poor man's Christian Slater" Travis Fine, who never really became as
popular as he should have been). Meanwhile, the Play Pals company has
reopened the Good Guy factory and is starting production of the doll
once more. But when clearing away Chucky's grisly remains, some of his
blood spills into a vat of molten plastic and he is born once more in a
new body.

After a good old strangulation to get the circulation going he locates
Andy at his military school and somehow figures out a way to mail
himself there. However, once the package gets there it is promptly
snatched by a very annoying, morbidly juvenile, and highly wimpy little
kid called Tyler who has the same face as has-been 'singer' Craig
David, only more annoying (if that is even possible). Since he has a
new body Chucky reveals his birth name once more, hoping to get a fast
and easy ticket out of his plastic shell. As before there are too many
distractions.

And as before the film spends way too much time with boring humans who
spend too much time lurking in the dark wondering why a doll seems to
appear and reappear and not enough time with Chucky. He IS the star of
the show and he should OWN this movie. Alias and Lost director Jack
Bender never really gives him the chance. Which is a shame since the
animatronics had improved over Child's Play 2 and Chucky was beginning
to look nastily cute. And more and more like Brad Dourif if you look
hard enough. Bender's direction is slick but lacks edge, invention or
humor. He seems to be ignorant of the potential Chucky has and treats
the film like another mechanical TV series with no spark or signature.
I remember when I first watched the VHS tape as a kid I immediately
noticed how darker and gloomier this movie is, which ultimately leads
to an overwhelming downbeat, depressing atmosphere, that sort of does
and sort of doesn't work.

The score is a major downer though. Greame Revell's wonderful
orchestral adventure of Child's Play 2 has been replaced with a horrid
synthesized, death-metal score filled with tacky and unimaginative
stingers. Revell, fortunately, returned for Bride of Chucky.

Child's Play 3 is no more than a competent sequel. Writer Don Mancini
said he wasn't even ready to do a 3rd movie but Universal forced him to
before the second was even released. As he was out of ideas he claims
this film to be his least favorite of them all. If a better director
were involved it could still have been a good film instead of being a
merely an above average (by a tiny, tiny bit) one.
<|_=00=_|>
Chucky is brilliant in the third series of the original. He is even
more inventive with his killings(garrotting,smacking,stabbing etc) and
he attempts to kill an entire military school by replacing their
practice paint-balling game bullets into real slugs. The plot also
involves a stupid romance between Andy and a fat girl but it doesn't
really fit into the movie. Anyway the movie's about Chucky and he's
great. so a 9 out of 10 for me. If you liked this i also recommend the
following: child's play1+2 bride of Chucky the new out seed of Chucky
Christine f/x murder by illusion 1+2

rainy dog from Cyrus godlike
