

Everybody says this movie sucks...i don't think that at
all.
We can't have kevin forever...he's gotta grow up at some
point.
That's why it was good to go with a new family that would keep the spirit of
home alone alive...remember it's for the kids.
plus the bad guys were more advanced then marv & harry (not saying that i
didn't like marv & harry) but these guys had high-tec equitment that was
pretty cool. This movie was new,fresh,well acted & had good direction.  
(RAJA GOSNEL)

WAY-TO-GO JOHN HUGHES!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Home Alone 3 has a lot of unfair criticism. I mean, how many of you
would really have wanted a 16-year-old Mac Culkin doing the same-old
same-old to Harry and Marv. Of course it was a better idea to do in a
different direction and with John Hughes still producing and writing
you know there's going to be a good amount of imagination and
creativity.

This time around we have 8-year-old Alex Pruitt defend his house
against international criminals. Stuck at home with Chicken Pox with
both his parents tied-up in work matters, Alex suspects foul play on
his snowy street when he witnesses strangers poking around in his
neighbor's house. Of course, no one believes an imaginative 8-year-old
so he has to deal with them himself.

It turns out that a toy car Alex got from the old-lady across the
street is actually a Trojan horse to smuggle a priceless defence
microchip to the North Korean mob. They really ought to hire better
criminals as they fall for every one of Alex's sadistic booby-traps.

Yes, that is basically the whole plot but it gets enough mileage out of
it and it's still very funny. Set in January, it lacks the Xmas feel of
the first two, but I guess that would have just been a distraction.
John Williams' theme only gets a brief recital at the start, but from
then on it's an adequate (if not exceptional) score from Hans Zimmer
pal Nick Glennie-Smith. Despite these key differences of characters and
theme, it still feels like it has enough continuity with the others.

It's a totally worthwhile and enjoyable sequel that has a bad rep for
no reason. Home Alone 4 on the other hand...now THAT is BAD!
<|_=00=_|>
Home Alone 3 is an OK movie, but not as good as the original.

The humor isn't as funny, the plot is the same as before, and worst of
all... they replaced the main character of the originals: Kevin! Sadly,
his substitute is pretty odd, and WAY too smart for his age. Kevin was
one of the things that made the original so fun. But, some of the
stunts are clever, (like the one with the gun) just not clever enough.

Skip this unnecessary installment. 

Do yourself a favor and watch the originals, which are much better than
this movie. 

5/10

Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment.
<|_=00=_|>

This is NOT part 3 of "Kevin's Adventures", but rather a brand new
"home Alone" situation. The setting is still suburban Chicago during
the Christmas season, the family is still "upper middle class", and
even the theme music is very similar to the predecessors. This time,
however, the "kid" is NOT abandoned by his entire family who took off
for their Christmas Vacation. This time our pint sized hero is left
unattended only for hours at a time, while he is at home and sick with
the measles. A gang of foreign spys is after a top secret multi-million
dollar computer chip stolen from the US Air Force. Of course, they hide
it in a battery-operated toy that ends up with "the kid". 

Although the "boobie trap" routine could be viewed as just another
rip-off from the first two films, the "gags" seem a bit more
sophisticated and less forced in "3". The mere fact that our hero is
not dealing with "wet bandit idiots" this time around makes the whole
show less of a "kiddie circus". The third running is also leaving out
the mushy side plots which would've gotten tiresome by now. All in all
this is a fun show for the whole family. I showed this film to my 4th
grade class and they gave it 20 thumbs up. Not for the "grown-up"
comedy critic, but definitely a winner with kids.

<|_=00=_|>
Has the same title only this ain't the Home Alone you'd all be familiar
with.

No one from the original is in it. And the plot to it isn't as amusing
as the first 2 were.

This one has to do with some secret group of agents accidentally
misplaced there product at the airport which has some important chip in
it that's top secret. They track down where the product is which is in
Chicago, and located in somewhere in a neighborhood. 4 agents now have
to check every house and find that chip.

A kid who's supposed to be the new version of Kevin has the chip only
he doesn't know it yet.

He likes to watch neighbors with his telescope and goof around. When he
notices the agents breaking into the neighbor's homes, he calls the
police. When they get there they didn't find any of the intruders in
the neighbor's home. When the agents plan on breaking into our main
hero's home, he has to prepare himself to set up traps and give them
hell.

This movie was good at first but it's not the same. Those who like the
first 2 Home Alone movies, you might not like this one. Rent it first,
and see for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
I love all the home alone movies, including this. There's more baddies
and better traps, making it more exiting. How could anyone hate this?
There's pets added in this, including the hilarious parrot. The bad
guys are not stupid, their serious, and the new choice for Alex was
just as good as the old. I'm going to comment on the first two but when
I saw people dissing it I had to do this first. It's great family
entertainment- they've completely changed the whole cast so he still
has an annoying family- one big brother and sister that hate him- and
parents that are nice, but always away from home. The traps are sooo
funny! Especially when the bad guy gets electrocuted! {oops spoiler}
well, I give it 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Home Alone 3 tells a whole different story then the original two.
Instead of the McCallisters, we meet the Pruitt family and in
particular the main character Alex. A computer chip worth ten million
dollars is placed into a toy car by our four villains in an attempt to
get through airport security. There is a mix up at the airport, and the
toy car ends up in the possession of an older woman who gives it to
little Alex as a gift. The four bad guys track the car to a
neighbourhood in Chicago and break into a series of houses looking for
the chip. Alex (who is HOME ALONE with chicken pox) see's the crooks
breaking into the houses an calls the cops, only to look like a prank
caller each time. The villains looking for the chip eventually realize
that little Alex has it and that's when the fun begins - Home Alone
style.

I actually enjoyed Home Alone 3 as a kid and as an adult now. No, it
isn't as good as the original films and no Alex Linz is not Macaulay
Culkin. But this movie gets points for breaking off from the
McCallister storyline. I mean how many times can that family forget the
same kid? Young actor Alex Linz who plays Alex in Home Alone 3 does a
great job taking on this big role, he manages to not put in an annoying
performance like so many child actors can be do these kind of movies.
The crooks include three men and one female, and I like that they added
a woman into that villain role. They all are good actors and add plenty
to this movie.

The best comedic moments come from the crooks, especially David
Thornton as 'Unger'. There are some ho-hum funny moments which fall
flat such as the talking parrot and a few scenes with Alex's older
brother and sister who "torment" him. Another flaw was the actual "home
alone" bit, and the fact that Alex isn't really home alone as we've
seen in the first two films. His mother leaves him for a couple of
hours as he recuperates from Chicken Pox, hardly the same as Kevin
McCallister went through. And I don't like that it doesn't take place
ON Christmas. But those drawbacks don't take away from the whole movie
at all. 

Home Alone 3 isn't great, but it takes some risks by moving from the
original plot and adds some smarts it with the computer chip story.
These aren't your simple criminals like the wet bandits were, they are
after far more than some jewellery and expensive silverware. I
recommend Home Alone 3 for sure!

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Precocious youngster Linza target of torment for his older siblings
and uptight next door neighboris stuck at home with the dreaded
chicken pox. He stumbles upon a top secret computer chip that makes him
the target of four, high-precision international spies determined to
re-obtain it, but the feisty youngster is determined to defend his home
at all costs. The whole thing is pretty formulaic, but smarter crooks,
an appealing cast, and a surprising amount of unexpected laughs help
overcome the script's familiarity and wild leaps of logic. Not very
original, but there are more than enough good gags and amusing
situations to make it worth a look. **½
<|_=00=_|>
If you liked the first two films starring Macaulay Culkin, then the bad
news is that he is replaced by a new kid named Alex D. Linz playing
Alex Pruitt, but the good news is that this is actually a good film.
The new idea is that he is left at home on purpose, looking after
himself. Four criminals, Mr. Beaupre (Olek Krupa), Mr. Jernigan (Lenny
Von Dohlen), Mr. Unger (David Thornton) and Alice Ribbons (Rya
Kihlstedt), have stolen a computer chip that goes into a missile. They
put it into a toy car and accidentally swap bags. The kid has now got
the car and is now defending himself with new goofy and dangerous booby
traps set for cartoon like comedy. Also starring Haviland Morris as the
Mum, Karen, Kevin Kilner as the Dad, Jack, Marian Seldes as Mrs. Hess,
Seth Smith as Stan, and a young Scarlett Johansson as Molly. The
villains are good and the new kid is pretty good, oh, and the comedy is
still good! Good!
<|_=00=_|>
While the story is once again written by John Hughes, the directorial
duties are this time taken over by Raja Gosnell. While it's not an
absolutely terrible movie, this sequel to the first two, hugely
successful, films suffers from a few major problems.

Problem one  no Macaulay Culkin. He may not be the best, or even
cutest, kid actor in the world but Culkin was the undeniable star of
the Home Alone movies and so setting up a story in which some other kid
(young Alex, played by Alex D. Linz) has to stay at home on his own
thanks to a case of the measles just isn't going to please those who
wanted more of Culkin's antics.

Problem two  no Daniel Stern or Joe Pesci. The baddies of the piece
are a bunch of agents (three men and one woman) who are after a special
chip that has been placed in a remote control car given to Alex by one
of his neighbours. The actors all do fairly well with their roles but
they're no match for the gut-busting physical comedy that Stern was
able to showcase in the previous films.

Problem three  it stretches believability, even for a Home Alone
movie, in places and the complexity of some of the booby traps here
make the kid look more like a new MacGyver than a new Macaulay.

But for those not feeling overly precious about things and willing to
give it a go, these problems can also be turned around and viewed as
positive. At least with a different kid as the focus of the attention
we don't have to try to believe that the same thing would keep
happening again and again to little Kevin McCallister and Alex D. Linz
is quite a likable little moppet so that also works in the film's
favour.

And while we're lacking "The Wet/Sticky Bandits" we at least get double
the amount of victims trying to navigate their way through numerous,
inventive booby-traps. Olek Krupa, Rya Kihlstedt, Lenny von Dohlen and
David Thornton may have weaker material to work with but they still
provide a good mix of menace and idiocy.

The other big bonus for the movie is that, although it's inherently
repetitive when compared to the concept of it's predecessors, it
doesn't identically replicate moments as the second film did. This
means that things feel familiar but also a little fresher this time
around.

The cast all do well enough and there's the lovely Haviland Morris
playing Alex's mother while a very young Scarlett Johansson appears in
the role of big sis, so completist fans may be interested in this for
that reason alone.

Director Gosnell doesn't do anything spectacular but he's far from
incompetent and paces the film well while leading everyone towards that
big, trap-laden finale that we all want to see. An easy film for fans
of the first two to be harsh towards, this actually makes for mildly
amusing family fun and I'm sure it would keep some kids happy on a
dreary afternoon stuck indoors. Though it would never be a first
choice.
