
Absolute Power may not be an overly special film but it was the first
movie I saw in the cinema after leaving high school. I was certainly
not the target audience but it had my attention from the first scene
and maintained the suspense for the during of the running time, even if
it doesn't build to much.

Clint Eastwood plays Luther Whitney, an expert thief who targets
billionaire industrialist Walter Sullivan (grouchy old EG Marshall, in
his last theatrical movie) while he is off on vacation. While in the
midst of cleaning out the vault the President of the United States
(Gene Hackman) enters the room with Sullivan's wife. Whitney hides in
the vault, which has a two-way mirror, and witnesses the President get
a little too rough with the woman, which ends in her fighting him off
and being murdered by the secret service. The Chief of Staff concocts a
plan to cover up the murder not knowing that Whitney is watching the
whole thing. As the group leave he escapes, taking a crucial piece of
evidence with him.

Initially unsure what to do, Whitney decides to taunt the President,
though it's not clear what his complete plan is or even if he's just
free-forming. If one should fault Absolute Power for any reason it's
that it establishes a lot of plot and potential but never really does
anything with it and ends with an anti-climactic cop-out.

Where it succeeds is with the small cast of characters who really make
the dialogue and relationships work. Ed Harris as the confused but
dedicated cop investigating the case, Laura Linney as Whitney's
resentful daughter, and the austere Scott Glenn as the self-doubting
agent make every scene effortless even when there's not much happening.

Adapted from (and streamlined and improved in the process) the bloated
novel by David Baldacci (I call them 'Airport novels'  those 600-page
bricks with generic covers featuring nothing but the title and author
in giant gold letters in a tacky font) the screenplay makes many
changes but they are all for the better. Eastwood's direction is slow
and steady  or 'mature'. The pace and framing is the antidote for
anyone bored to tears with the nauseating aesthetic of today's
comic-book movies and CGI nightmares.

A curious thing about the beginning of the movie is that Clint Eastwood
only has 2 lines of dialogue for the entire 35 minutes. I don't
understand why he didn't cut them out and remain silent, which would
give the film a peculiar edge.
<|_=00=_|>
What starts out with immense potential gradually evaporates into
preposterousness in ABSOLUTE POWER. That doesn't make it an entirely
bad picture, but it certainly puts a damper on what could have been.
Clint Eastwood is an aging thief (he's been an aging something or other
for his last 20 movies) who secretly witnesses President Gene Hackman
get rough with his mistress. The encounter ends with her being shot by
the Secret Service as she tries to defend herself, and the incident is
promptly disguised to look like run-of-the-mill foul play. He may be on
the outside of the law looking in, but Clint ain't about to let the
powers that be get away with this one.

The opening 20 minutes of ABSOLUTE POWER are quite suspenseful,
bordering on mesmerizing. There we are, trapped in a walk-in, two-way
mirrored vault along with our pilfering hero, helpless to stop the
horror unfolding just meters away. Eastwood may start out as the bad
guy, but his status is quickly upgraded as he flees the scene holding
what may be the only piece of evidence that can prove his astonishing
observation. From then on we find ourselves rooting him on, even if he
is in reality nothing more than the lesser of two evils.

What unravels ABSOLUTE POWER is its laziness and improbability. In an
attempt to set up one stirring scene after another, the characters
begin doing and saying things one would expect of a low-rate
Jean-Claude Van Damme movie. A one-dimensionally evil Secret Service
man surreptitiously hunkers down in a tall building trying to snipe
Eastwood ala Lee Harvey Oswald. A police detective has no problem with
Eastwood sneaking around his home at all hours of the night. A
three-minute argument by Eastwood's thief is enough to convince the
mistress's widower of the involvement of the most powerful man on
earth. And to call the ending outlandish and unsatisfying would be a
pair of understatements.

As well, though it's usually the other way around, ABSOLUTE POWER would
have benefited from a longer running time. One comes away with the
sense that Eastwood, who also directed, tried to cram too much into too
little. The film certainly had the material to go longer, and its
compactness gives the whole endeavor a choppy feel at times.

ABSOLUTE POWER is a film you really want to like. There is considerable
talent involved here, and the movie's heart seems to be in the right
place. But like that one photo we all have in our album, this one
didn't turn out as good as we would have hoped.
<|_=00=_|>
Some actors, upon reaching their sixties or seventies, retire. Some
enter into a sort of semi-retirement whereby they continue to accept
cameo parts but not leading roles. Some, however, try and revisit the
triumphs of their youth by making the same sort of films that they were
making twenty or thirty years earlier. There are too many examples to
list them all, but I was less than enthusiastic to note that Sylvester
Stallone, at the age of sixty, has just made his sixth "Rocky" film and
is currently working on his fourth "Rambo".

Clint Eastwood is a rare example of a star who managed to remain a
leading man throughout his seventh and into his eighth decade, but did
so without a desperate attempt to put the clock back. (Doubtless his
status as a director and producer has given him a greater influence
inside the industry than many of his contemporaries). In his early
sixties he made "Unforgiven", one of the all-time great Westerns, in
which he starred as an ageing gunfighter, and since then has made a
number of other films, such as "The Bridges of Madison County" and
"Million Dollar Baby", in which an older man takes centre stage.
Occasionally his roles have contained elements of an old man's wishful
thinking, such as his romance with Rene Russo in "In the Line of Fire",
but even in that film his character's age was important to the plot.

"Absolute Power", made when Eastwood was sixty-seven, is another older
man's film. His character, Luther Whitney, is a veteran burglar who has
broken into the Washington mansion of an elderly millionaire named
Walter Sullivan, where, from his hiding-place, he inadvertently
witnesses a killing. Sullivan's young wife Christy enters the bedroom
with her lover, who is none other than the President, Allen Richmond.
What starts out as a consensual love-making session goes wrong when
Richmond, clearly a lover of rough sex, starts slapping Christy. She
takes exception to this and slaps him back. Things get out of hand, and
she attempts to stab him with a letter-opener. Richmond calls for help
and his Secret Service bodyguards burst into the room and open fire,
killing Christy.

Some reviewers have described Christy's killing as "murder", but
legally this is not correct. Had the two bodyguards ever stood trial
for murder, they would have been acquitted as they were only carrying
out their duty to protect the President's life, but things never get
that far. Richmond is too shocked to take any action, but his Chief of
Staff Gloria Russell, realising that if the truth ever came out it
would destroy his career, organises a cover-up. When the President's
staff realise that Luther was a witness to the killing, he is forced to
go on the run.

This could have been the plot of a very mundane political thriller, but
Eastwood, both as actor and director, is able to lift it above that
level. Despite Luther's criminal tendencies, Eastwood is able to make
him a sympathetic figure, a man with his own sense of decency and
honour. He had the assistance of a very strong cast, featuring some of
Hollywood's most accomplished actors. There is E.G. Marshall in his
last feature film as Sullivan, Gene Hackman (always a very watchable
villain) as the hypocritical Richmond, Judy Davis as Gloria and Ed
Harris as the police chief who is investigating Christy's death and
soon comes to realise that there is more to it than meets the eye. A
particularly important role is played by the very talented Laura Linney
as Luther's daughter Kate. She has become estranged from her father as
she disapproves of his criminal lifestyle and now works as a criminal
lawyer, prosecuting on behalf of the police. When she realises that her
father is in danger, however, she comes to his assistance, and they
start to rebuild their relationship.

The idea that their President might be a philanderer would have come as
no surprise to most Americans in the mid-nineties, even though this
film came out just before President Clinton was caught up in the Monica
Lewinsky affair. Eastwood was not, however, interested in doing
something along the lines of "Primary Colors" or "Wag the Dog"; there
is no attempt to make Richmond a disguised portrait of Clinton, and we
do not even learn if he is a Democrat or Republican. "Absolute Power"
is intended as a thriller, not a satirical comedy. Nevertheless, it
does tap into the feeling that many Americans have had, ever since the
Watergate affair, that their Presidents cannot always be trusted to
tell the truth. It is significant that the hero of this film is a
burglar by trade; the implication is that such a man may be less of a
crook than a politician. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Absolute Power featured an exceptional cast. Clint Eastwood, Gene
Hackman, Ed Harris, Laura Linney, Judy Davis, E. g. Marshall - few
movies boast better talent.

Absolute Power also involved a compelling scenario - Eastwood, a master
thief, has staked out Marshall's house and is pulling a third story job
involving a vault full of diamonds and money, when Marshall's wife and
the president of the United States waltz into the bedroom intoxicated
and frisky. Things get a little rough, and Hackman (the president)
finally yells for help when the young woman tries to stab him, with a
letter opener. The Secret Service blows the woman away and sets about
cleaning up and covering up the crime. Eastwood, of course, witnesses
the entire proceeding and manages to grab one important piece of
evidence (the letter opener) before making good his escape. He then
begins a cat and mouse game somewhere between the police, the secret
service and his estranged daughter, who is unsure who to believe.

Absolute Power, despite its potential, was a disappointment. The
characters were made believable by the phenomenal cast. Eastwood,
Linney and Davis were outstanding at times. And the film has several
tense and visually very interesting scenes which showed Eastwood's
directorial talent nicely. From my perspective, the problem was
somewhere between the script, the editing and the directing, but I am
not sure exactly where. About 2/3rds of the way through the film, the
Keystone Cops antics of the Secret Service members who are supposed to
be "taking care" of the situation, are no longer believable, and
neither is Eastwood' ability to be anywhere at any time without being
detected. Further, when the end finally does come, it moves in pretty
abruptly, as something of a less than interesting anticlimax, long
after the plot has fully unraveled, and you are left wondering just how
much of the script was edited out. In fact, the last half of the film
seemed rushed.

Absolute Power is a plot heavy film. Less character-driven and less
action oriented than most of its genre peers, the film relies on strong
but underdeveloped performances, the likability of its antihero
(Eastwood) and what could have been a very engaging string of scenarios
culminating in a powerful conclusion. Plot heavy films can be good
films if they stick to their heavy story-lines. However, and
inexplicably, Absolute Power derails about half way through and never
really gets back on track. Instead, none of these potentialities are
explored fully and we are left with only petty revenge, a little
misapplied justice, and the rebuilding of a relationship between the
story's most likable characters (Linney and Eastwood). Yawn. An
entertaining little show with a few really good moments, but nothing
special.
<|_=00=_|>
HIGHS--

A very fun plot. Gene Hackman could vilify Ghandi given the right
lines. Clint Eastwood as a high-stakes jewel thief?? I'm in heaven.
Soft, subtle score; typical of modern Eastwood films. Intense finale
that has you rooting for the bad guys, or is it the good guys?? You
decide. E. G. Marshall's version of a scorned billionaire is a
wonderful turn.

LOWS--

I have not read Baldacci's novel this is based upon. But I have to
think, Clint Eastwood was not who he had in mind for the elusive cat
burglar Luther Whitney. That casting was probably a little too
self-serving. Also, I did enjoy the plot. But maybe a touch of more
believability would have been nice. The murder scene at the beginning,
while necessary for the remainder, may be a touch too implausible for
my taste. 

PARTING IMPRESSION--

Solid entertainment. This rating denotes that. Sure, won't win any
Oscars, but that's not why you really want to see a film like this. We
all root for these high stakes take-the-money-and-run type finales and
here we are satiated in the chicanery, the likes of which could only
emanate from D.C. Seven out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
Eastwood, nobody's fool, seems to alternate between quiet, almost arty
films, and commercial thrillers or comedies. This is probably an
above-average example of one of his thrillers.

The plot -- in brief -- Eastwood is a highly skilled thief and in the
process of burglarizing a rich old man's house he witnesses the murder
of the owner's wife by the President of the United States (Gene
Hackman) and two of his Secret Service agents. Clint manages to get
away, carrying some damaging evidence with him. The police narrow down
the list of suspects until only Clint is left plausible. Thereafter he
is hunted by the police (Ed Harris), a hit man hired by the tycoon (E.
G. Marshall), and the Secret Service (Judy Davis and Scott Glen). There
is a subplot involving Clint's estranged daughter (Laura Linney) who
gets together with Ed Harris in the film's course. In the end, through
Clint's deft weaseling about, justice is done.

I had a bit of a problem with the film's moral calculus. E. G.
Marshall, one of the world's richest men, is a good guy. We are told
this repeatedly and he's shown a good deal of respect by people who
should know. But then why did he "give the presidency" to a murdering,
philandering fool like Hackman? And SHOULD he have? He loses our
sympathy when he hires a hit man to kill Eastwood. Evidently, somehow,
he manages to stab the president to death. The script seems to want us
to applaud him for dealing out power and justice as he sees fit, and to
respect him even after he kills Hackman and lies about it on TV, using
the pat phrase, "He was like a son to me." "Good man," my foot.

It's rather a gutsy movie. In most of them, when a "high government
official" is involved in some really nefarious business like murder,
it's usually someone of lesser status than the President himself. (Cf.,
"No Way Out," in which, in a similar role, Hackman is Secretary of
Defense or something.) In all of its aspects -- its photography,
location shooting, musical score, and performances -- it's
professionally competent. If it doesn't probe anyone's psych, it
doesn't matter because it's easy to be swept up in the events and the
clarity of the characterization. It even rises above that level in its
dialog. The plot may be no more imaginative than is called for, but the
writers have thrown in some sparkling bon mots.

Harris and Glenn are talking in a parking lot and introduce each other.
Harris remarks that Glenn is famous as a state trooper for his heroism.
Glenn: "I was younger and dumber then." Harris: "Yeah, I was younger
then but I think I'm dumber now." When E. G. Marshall is negotiating
with the hit man, he offers him three million dollars to kill Eastwood,
who he believes murdered his wife. Hit man: "You're a good salesman."
Marshall: "Selling sin is easy." And when Harris first finishes
interrogating Clint, Harris says, "I'll see you tomorrow." Clint smiles
gaily and replies: "Tomorrow is promised to no one." Now -- I'm not
claiming that these are Shakespearean flights of poetry, but they're at
least as good as a lot of well-known lines from B movies like "Detour."
("What is money? Just a piece of paper crawling with germs.") At least
after hearing them you don't want to take a can of scouring powder to
your auditory canals and clean out the accumulated garbage. Whoever is
responsible for lines like that HAD to think beyond the merely
utilitarian.

Nice journeyman job.
<|_=00=_|>
Washington DC -1990s. Luther Whitney, reputed one the very best thieves
of the country but supposedly retired, is in the process of executing
his greatest robbery the private vault of a powerful billionaire,
Walter Sullivan. But he is disturbed by the billionaire's young wife.
Christy takes advantage of her husband's absence to receive her lover
the US President himself. President Richmond is a sick pervert, and
the love affair turns sour. In front of hidden Whitney, the lady is
murdered. Before escaping, Whitney secures the murder weapon, but he
will need all his experience and skills to manipulate the secret
services and the very competent police investigator Seth Frank. Not
only must he protect himself but also his estranged daughter Kate. Not
to worry however Luther Whitney is Clint Eastwood, after all! And
since the suspense in this respect is minimal, we can just relax and
enjoy watching one of our coolest supermen smoothly make his way
through a nicely structured scenario. Although the action itself is
ageless, one sign definitely links the movie to the 90s the blatant
lack of respect for the person of the US President and the undisguised
criticism of political corruption. Maybe a way to exorcise the scandals
that have been plaguing the White House over the last decades
<|_=00=_|>
The Narrative.

A consistent plot involving many different types of characters in the
form of organised professional robber Whitney (Marvellously portrayed
by Eastwood) who is involved in a huge conspiracy involving the very
uncomfortable president Hackman.

Perhaps the story gets too involved at points with a lack of realism.
However the film is always tense and engaging, especially the beginning
which was definitely one of my all time favourite openings to a crime
film. Tense, exciting and with a few twists it presents a realistic
view of a robber caught up in what will surely be a huge case.

The story justifies the genre by being focused upon murders and
robberies and adds sentimental value in the form of family and
friendship values. Laura Linney (The Truman Show) is terrific as
Eastwood's daughter and adds a great sentimental value to a heavy crime
film. She is involved in a great twists towards the end which is a must
watch.

The ending surprised me. Although there were great twists, the final
few scenes and the way the narrative came to never felt quite justified
in my opinion but then again I may have been expecting too much from a
film that was consistent and engaging from the beginning. The film is
always kept exciting through the tense robbery scenes, character
actions and a plot about a man and his power.

Direction.

Eastwood's direction is simply breathtaking. The opening sequence where
he explores the neatly kept mansion for his robbery is the best moment
in the entire film; I was literally on the edge of my seat. Dark, quiet
and with a grace that any director would be proud of I held my breathe
from start to finish. Heavy critics may argue it conforms too much to
an action styled genre with many shots appearing focusing in or around
the main priority but I appreciated it for what it was, which was sheer
brilliance.

Eastwood is outstanding in the whole of this film. Not only his ability
to pull off a stern ageing character but this direction is also worthy
of huge praise.

watch it if...you enjoy the crime genre and appreciate tense dramatic
sequences.

but its simply just worth watching for the beginning.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying I am a huge Clint Eastwood fan and I think I'm
dangerously close to being in love with the beautiful Laura Linney.
Combine the two and what do you get? A film made in heaven? No - nearer
to hell in fact.

I read somewhere that Eastwood was so methodical and resolute in his
film making that he managed to shoot Absolute Power 3 weeks ahead of
schedule and 2-4 million under budget. Now, I don't know if he had
spent that money and time on the film if it would be an improvement but
it couldn't be any worse.

Right from the get-go this film is doomed. Hackman (a criminally
underused Hackman) is the President having some midnight fun with the
wife of his biggest supporter. He gets a little rough, she fights back
too much for the liking of the secret service men who in the end shoot
her dead in her own bedroom. All of this is witnessed by Eastwood
hiding in a secret vault room. The chase is now on. But the thing is -
nothing - not one single thing afterwards, fits. There is NO suspense,
no drama, a sequence of events that would make your eyes water with
incredulity and enough plot holes to drive a truck through - sideways.

I won't (can't - don't have the space nor the time) go into all of the
issues with this film but here's a flavour: 

1. Eastwood abseils out a window of the crime scene with a pack that
must weigh a ton on his back - filled with jewels/cash and then manages
to outrun 2 trained secret service agents through a forest. Now the
fact that Eastwood is quite obviously an old man carrying substantial
weight doesn't seem to matter. The two guys following him must be 25
years younger, are armed and even have night vision goggles !!!! Yet
cannot catch him.

2. The day after the theft/murder, Ed Harris, the police investigator,
walks into his office, holding Eastwood's file. He says something about
how a friend of his told him there are only 6 guys IN THE ENTIRE WORLD
that could pull off that theft and only 1 of those 6 lives in D.C. -
Eastwood! Is this how police investigation works??!! Very convenient
that he just lives right under their noses too.

3. Harris then persuades Eastwood's daughter - Linney (again criminally
underused) to set up her dad and bring him in. She agrees. Why? I don't
know. But the set-up goes wrong and she is shot at by 2 snipers (one SS
guy and another hired killer). Then Harris takes her home and starts
flirting with her. Embarrassingly. I would have thought she would be a
little aggrieved that he nearly got her and her father killed a few
hours previous, but no... she invites him in for water and flirts back!
This stretches believability to the max here. Why would a beautiful,
successful lawyer even look at a small, balding cop who almost got her
killed? To make matters worse, Eastwood - at the end of the movie
encourages his daughter to get together with this cop. WHAT?!! 

4. One of the snipers is set up in a hotel room of some sort with a big
window. After building his rifle like something from an airfix kit,
(the SS man is simultaneously building his click-together gun too) he
HOLDS THE RIFLE OUT OF THE WINDOW waving it about. The place is in the
middle of a high traffic, public domain, SWARMING with cops as well, in
daylight! 

5. Eastwood turns up in disguise. My dog would come up with a better
disguise. A hat and a Mac left over from Columbo. Terrible.

6. The President then sends the SS guys to find Eastwood's daughter. I
thought they would bring her in for questioning or put the squeeze on
her, but they simply follow her until she parks her car at the edge of
a cliff prior to a run. Rather than arrest her and bring her in for
questioning (or use as bait), they simply push her over the cliff and
drive away? What purpose does that possibly serve?

7. After Eastwood finds out that the SS is taking over surveillance of
his daughter, he drops a public phone, speeds across the city from a
phone booth in the middle of who knows where, screeching his tires and
blowing his horn repeatedly through traffic to the same spot where
Linney has just been pushed over the cliff. How did he know she would
be there? At no time, did he see his daughter's car or talk to his
daughter. How did he know to find his daughter there ?

8. At the end when the billionaire husband walks in to the President
with the knife in his hand , confronts the President and CUT- there is
a scene cut - and later it is announced that the President stabbed
himself to death. WHAT? 

I could go on for another 5 pages with things that were just happening
for the sake of it or Eastwood appears out of nowhere but I won't bore
you any longer.

Given Eastwood's pedigree behind the camera, I am majorly surprised at
this shoddy effort. He had a good cast Linney, Harris, Glenn, Hackman,
Haysbert and a decent premise of a story - but the haphazard way this
is thrown together is nothing short of abysmal.

3/10 - 5 points for Linney alone, 1 point taken away for Harris'
terrible flirting and another point taken away for the serious amount
of plot holes.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is a well-paced Clint film that is fit for a heart-attack! The
cast that accompanies Eastwood is flawless. As 'Luther' the old 'cat'
who has made a fine career out of stealing, is at a major moral
crossroad...from what he had witnessed on 'the job' that never should
have taken place, in front of him. This is a stunner, that keeps your
pulse pounding in places and slows down to a normal pace in other
spots, and it all works perfectly. 

Eastwood's style is second to none, as he makes his way through this
thrill-ride of an enthralling story. He is very thought-provoking as he
works to figure his 'escape', then a moral dilemma of major proportions
hits him like a ton of brick!! His whole mission, has changed at that
point and he knows it. From then on, he is set on a new course of
decisive action. Next to actors like Scott Glenn and Ed Harris, Laura
Linney, Judy Davis Dennis Haybert, that is pretty solid for a cast, all
the players pull their own weight. But then with the addition of Gene
Hackman, this is a frantic paced unveiling of events.

This for sure, rounds out my top of the top great films... This is
recommended as a Clint Eastwood fun, solid action, white knuckled
thriller that is satisfying for most discreminating movie-mogals I
would believe. (*****)
