
When I was seven and this movie came out, it was the biggest thing
around. Everyone wanted to be the Spice Girls. After they split up and
weren't cool anymore, everyone forgot about the movie. But ho, ho,
what's this? Years later, here I am cleaning out my old Disney and
Barney videos and stumble across my old friend that I used to watch
everyday. Even at my old age of fifteen, never failed to crack me up.

Obviously, this isn't meant to be a contender for Oscars. Anyone can
see that. But I can't find much to hate about a movie that's
practically the visual to go along with the song "Girls just wanna have
fun." That's all it is, fun. And a lot of good fun at that. It's just a
guilty pleasure, and it's so much fun to watch it with old friends
singing into hair brushes and wearing feather boas. You just need to
keep in mind that it was publicity for their new record and it's not
meant to be one of those heavy movies you over-analyze. Recommendation:
This movie is much funner when you watch it jumping up and down on a
couch like a seven year old.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is FUN. And the sad thing is that most people are too
close-minded to see that. The general consensus seems to be: "It's the
Spice Girls in a movie? It's going to be awful!" and either they never
see the movie, or they allow their prejudices to judge the movie for
them.

Firstly, let me say that I am not, and was never, a Spice Girls fan. I
was way too old for their target market when they were popular, and
whilst one or two of their songs had catchy tunes, some were downright
annoying. They were a very cleverly manufactured girl band in a time
when that market was wide-open. Giving each girl a distinctive
character and style was a stroke of genius on the part of their
'creators', and while they didn't have particularly strong voices
(except perhaps for Mel C), they didn't have particularly bad ones
either. I've heard far worse. So I went into this movie purely out of
curiosity, expecting it to be somewhere between awful and merely silly,
but I ended up enjoying myself thoroughly. Also, my 65-year-old father
loves this movie, and he saw it only having heard vaguely of the Spice
Girls, but not knowing their music at all. Yes, Spiceworld is an
exploitation movie; BUT it does an excellent job at it! What I loved
most was the way it poked fun at itself all the way through. The
character of the screenwriter pitching his idea to the girls' manager
(brilliantly played by Richard E. Grant) saying "It's obvious to us
that the Spicegirls are movie stars!", when it's obvious that they're
not, and everyone knows it - there's even a scene at the beginning
where he says, "Yes, but can they ACT?" and his boss responds with,
'Who cares?", or similar. I loved that. And while the girls CAN'T
really act (some are worse than others; I've read that Victoria was the
only one who had taken acting lessons before, but I can't say it showed
since I thought she was the weakest link), it's obvious that they're
having fun with the script, and they don't do too badly at all.

The script was another great surprise to me; it's full of good lines
and funny characters that poke fun at themselves and their stereotypes.
An example of this is the great Roger Moore playing the "Chief", who is
presumably the Big Boss of the Spice Girls. We only ever see him on the
phone with Clifford the manager (Richard E. Grant), and every time we
do he is stroking, in pure Bond Villain (or Dr Evil) fashion, a small
white animal on his lap. But every time you see him he has a different
animal; first it's a cat, then a rabbit, a tiny white pig etc. I
thought that was such a great way of poking fun at the stereotype of
the villain always having a white pet. And then the character himself
has these fantastically enigmatic, senseless, but hysterical lines,
like: "When the rabbit of chaos is pursued by the ferret of disorder
through the fields of anarchy, it is time to hang your pants on the
hook of darkness. Whether they're clean or not." and: "The headless
chicken can only know where he's been. He can't see where he's going.
Do not be that chicken." I love that off-the-wall humour, and this
movie is full of it. Of course, some people just don't GET that kind of
humour, which is fine by me as long as it doesn't make them slam the
film because of it.

Other moments I love, which elevate this film from
could-have-been-dodgy to funny, are the casting of Meatloaf as the
Spice Girls bus driver, and then having him say lines like: {on fixing
the clogged toilets} "Hey, I love these girls. I'll do anything for
them...but I won't do that!" - which is, of course, a play on
Meatloaf's hit song "Anything for Love". Also the parody of the
stereotypical characters of the girls, which of course were made up for
them anyway, like Victoria not knowing what to wear, and Mel C saying
"It must be really hard for you, Victoria, trying to decide whether to
wear the little Gucci dress, or the little Gucci dress, or the little
Gucci dress", and Victoria responding "Exactly!", or when Victoria
falls into the Thames and continues to scream for help once she's been
rescued, and yelling "This dress is dry-clean only!", or Geri saying
"Calm down, haven't you ever heard of the word 'compromisation'?" There
are scores of these great moments but they really work better in the
film than if I wrote them down here. All I'm saying is that this movie
is not ever in a million years as bad as everyone makes it out to be.
Yes, it's not the greatest, but then most films aren't. It's so much
funnier than you'd think, and yes it has its cheesy moments, but
sometimes it's SUPPOSED to be cheesy! That's where it's funny. I really
don't understand why this film, whose only aim was to be FUN, and in
this it succeeded more than admirably in my opinion, is in IMDb's
Worst.
<|_=00=_|>
It was made to be silly. There's nothing in this movie that's meant to
offend anyone. It's a silly, fun-loving, harmless movie. I enjoyed it
when I was 8 and I still do now at 18. Anyone who takes this movie
seriously, needs to relax, have fun, enjoy the goofiness. This movie is
one you can enjoy with your friends, family and young children DON'T
have to be sent out of the room for inappropriate action.

It's silly, remember that. It's supposed to make you laugh!

All the girls are young, and the band still together. A few years
later, everything fell apart for them. Enjoy the youth and laughter
while you can.
<|_=00=_|>
To be a teenage girl when the Spice Girls were around, there was no
better time to be 12. I admit it, I was such a fan of the girl power
group. How could you not be? Admit it, you say you hated them, but
secretly you had a poster of Ginger Spice in your closet. They were
cute, they were fun, they were talented and before you knew it they
were gone. But for 2 years, it was nothing but girl power! So out of
the height of their fame we naturally had to see if the Spice Girls
were good for something else and that meant a movie! The Spice Girls
made a movie, to show how crazy their lives were at the time and let
them just have fun with it and they did spice up our lives real good.

The Spice Girls are enjoying their fame, but they become dissatisfied
with the burdens of it. A sinister newspaper owner, Kevin McMaxford, is
trying to ruin the girls' reputation in order to cash in on the
headlines, and even dispatches a photographer to take pictures and tape
recordings of the girls. Annoying film director, Piers
Cuthbertson-Smyth, who stalks the band along with his crew, hoping to
use them as documentary subjects; at the same time, the girls' manager,
Clifford, is fending off two overeager Hollywood writers, Martin
Barnfield and Graydon, who relentlessly pitch absurd plot ideas for the
girls' film. Amid this, the girls must prepare for a concert at the
Albert Hall, their biggest performance yet. But between all this
craziness, would they even want to continue to sing at the price of
their friendships? You'll have to see, but I'm sure you could figure it
out.

I think a lot of people are a little too harsh on this film, the girls
gave it a genuine try. You can tell they just had fun and wanted to do
this for the fans. I think there were actually some really funny parts,
like when they went through the spice boot camp. The whole last scene
where they are going through their action scene in London, it's so
random and just a good time. See, what I liked about this film was it's
harmless nature. It was made for the fans specifically because we loved
them so much. I admit that I'll watch it every once in a while still
just to go back down memory lane and it still brings a smile on my
face. The songs are so darn catchy, I can't help it. There are some
very fun cameos that get a good giggle. The story is very predictable
and the movie is over the top silly, but that is what makes it fun. I'm
here to defend the film, I think people over analyze things way too
much. Sometimes, you can't explain it, but you just want to let go of
the real world and spice up your life a little bit. The Spice Girls may
never win an Oscar, but they won the world's hearts for 2 short years,
the girl power may have fizzled a little, but I'll take a trip down
memory lane any time for Spice World.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
SPICEWORLD is a good, enjoyable movie. It is NOT Cinéma Vérité, nor is
it supposed to be. You want a deep, poignant movie? A thriller? An
action-flick? Watch something else. This movie is a farce, and was
intended to be only that, nothing more. You people who didn't like the
movie are expecting LORD OF THE RINGS or something, and this will never
reach that level. But for a fun, energetic, insane romp with countless
nods to classic movies, stars, and actors, this is perfect.

The Spice Girls had their time in the limelight and used it to produce
essentially a theatrically-released extended music video. If you're old
enough to remember M-TV when it was actually JUST a music video
channel, this is what SPICEWORLD is (think of the classic Michael
Jackson video/movies like THRILLER where it was music and a bit of
story tossed in for good measure). Nope, not Oscar material by a long
shot, but still quite enjoyable.

Oh yes... one last thing: I saw this movie on PPV in 1998 and
immediately fell in love with it and the Spice Girls. I was 28 then,
and even though I'm 36 now, I still enjoy this movie for what it is.
Perhaps that's because I'm OLD ENOUGH to know what it ISN'T.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very early tweens when the Spice Girls dominated the world, and I
remember the film coming out to cinemas; counting down the days till I
could go see it! As a child and massive fan I found the film
entertaining as it was to cracked up to be, it was all the phenomenon
of the time. Looking back now it was a great time for me enjoying it
and themselves as a girl group enjoying massive success and this is why
I can accept why the film may not be any BAFTA hands down winner,
obviously the film was never meant to be! It was written by their
managers wife! And has too many more than subtle references about
Britain. The acting is cheesy but no way did it tarnish any of the many
important actors/comedians/singers who cameo'd in this film because as
I remember Richard E. Grant saying it was just so great to be part of
the experience, it really was a time-line in history. Now who cares
whether he was lying or being honest we know he is an actor who gets
paid big bucks, but the fact Roger Moore was in this film and Meatloaf,
I don't think you can call them all sellouts. Fact is Spice Girls did
make an impact on us all, this is just a bit of history left to show
their mark.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read comments about this movie being awful - and OK so its not
something you have to use your brains for, but its FUNNY! These are the
greatest pop legends of the 90's, Girl Power shook the world and so of
course they were gonna exploit it for all their worth, but the thing
that makes this pop band movie so much better than any other are the
cameos, the list is endless.

Its got more start turns than an Austin Powers movie, and thats saying
something, and great thing is everyone has a sense of humour about
their own position, even the girls themselves.

I grew up with the Spice Girls and was a major fan - I'm 19 now but
watching it now i find it even funnier - cos now i understand the jokes
that flew over my head 8 years ago, and i know exactly who all these
brilliant actors and musicians who make their cameos.

It has great lines, a great and beautiful cast and shows the lives of
the spice girls at their most normal and bizarre at the height of their
fame, for the young girls the world over who loved the spice girls this
is a great film to bring back the memories of almost 10 years ago.

A must for fans - avoid if you had no love for these girls
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is so absurd and ludicrous, it looks as if Lloyd Kaufman from
Troma studios had written it, and Eric Louzil (from Troma as well) had
directed it.

But even so (and perhaps because of that), I loved it, it is really funny.
The girls just can't act, but they put their hearts out everytime they're on
camera, especially Victoria, who by the way, looks sexy as she ever
has.

This deserves to be a classic Cult Item!!
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie simply because it's a good laugh. The acting is
terrible, the plot is cheesy, but I love it all the same. You watch
this movie, and you're going to think it's the worst excuse for a
singing group promoting itself ever. And you'll be right. It is bad.
But that's what makes it so great! It's a cheesy movie full of cheesy
jokes. It's not supposed to be an academy award winner. It should be
the first of the genre "Cheesy for the sake of being Cheesy". I mean,
if Meatloaf voluntarily in this movie, we all know that it's not to be
taken seriously. Mr. "Bat-Out-Of-Hell" himself wouldn't be in one of
these movies to try and earn his acting credibility. Love this movie
for what it is. A cheesy good laugh to watch if you're depressed.
<|_=00=_|>
The outfits! The "acting"! The plot!! What could be better than a movie
so bad that it's good? Spice World was created to milk Spice Girl fans
for all they were worth, and it worked! I saw it and rented it, didn't
you? I believe this movie is worthy of a 10 rating because it was
created just to please younger fans and humor the idea of a Spice Girls
movie. Remember the Beatles movies? They were ridiculous, yet they are
still a treasure in the movie community. Spice World should be
remembered and enjoyed. Only true fans of their pop music can learn to
enjoy this film. This movie is hilarious because it's so bad. The only
way you could hate it is if you are a SERIOUS movie critic, and in that
case you're boring because you like 21 Grams and other equally boring
yet "moving" works. Enjoy the horrible movies for what they're worth!
