

This movie is one of my all time favourites!  If you enjoyed the humour
from
In Living Color, then you will really appreciate this movie.  The movie is
so enjoyable to watch because it has a bit of everything in it-action,
comedy, romance and of course with the Wayans brothers you are sure to
have
good time!  I liked seeing Damon's softer side towards Stacy Dash, and
Marlon's jealousy towards his brother's relationship with this girl.
Also,
the nightclub scene is a riot!  Overall,it is a great movie to watch,
especially if you are a fan of the Wayans family, plus it has a wicked
soundtrack as well!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't agree that this is a bad movie. I think it's funny and has a
certain charm to it (thanks to incredible Stacey Dash and Damon
Wayans). It's not The Thin Red Line but what did you expect? I expected
a light and entertaining movie and that's exactly what it is. Nothing
more nothing less. I would give it a 7 note but Stacey Dash deserves 2
more points:). For her alone this film is worth watching. But beside of
her it has a nice romantic plot, the action plot isn't too
sophisticated but it's enjoyable. The movie is a bit like a fairy
tale(again thanks to Stacey Dash) but that gives it a lot of charm and
I always enjoy watching it. I would highly recommend it if you want
something light and easy for the evening.
<|_=00=_|>
Motivated by my other weeks viewing of The Last Boy Scout (8 out of
10), I decided to follow up with another Damon Wayans film, this one
directed by Peter MacDonald, the same man who did Rambo III of all
films (quite a genre leap!). It is basically a middle of the road
Romantic-Action-Comedy date film, the type that were churned out by the
truckload during the early 1990's. R rated, so it dates this film a
little bit, as the romantic-action-comedy genre is almost 100%
exclusively a PG-13 genre for at least the last 10 years. 

The film stars a moderately funny Damon Wayans (not his best) as a
street wise guy trying to get 'mo money' by applying for a minimum wage
desk job, as well as snag a girl. But things are never that simple, and
his supposedly boring low paying job leads him into the middle of a
laughable crime plot. The film also co-stars his annoying, goofy and
much less funny younger brother Marlon Wayans (who always reminds me of
a C-list celebrity in the Eddie Griffin style). I didn't recognize any
of the other cast. The movie was written by Damon Wayans though, which
is worth noting. 

This is an average film at best, not unenjoyable, but certainly
forgettable save for a couple funny scenes (very much in an In Living
Color skit-com style). Every date movie clich√© is here too, including
the up-tight boyfriend, the fat and lovable comic relief, and the
crime-caper sub-plot. Worth viewing only once for Wayans' Brothers
fans, but otherwise not worth a DVD/VHS effort. But if it is on TV,
check it out.
<|_=00=_|>

Although thin on plot, great performances by the leads do manage to save
what would otherwise be another mediocre comedy.  Damon Wayans shows
considerable charisma as the lead, and has terrific chemistry with beautiful
co-star Stacey Dash.  To be sure, much of the humour here is silly, but when
the pace is slower (and the dialogue is realistic), the film really does
work .
<|_=00=_|>
Personally i Truly found this movie funny.

After a string of small time scams, Johnny Stewart(Damon Wayans),
finally decides to go legit when he meets the women of his dreams(Stacy
Dash). Following her into the Dynasty Credit Card offices , he quickly
accepts a low-level job in the mailroom. But the temptation of free
money- in the form of returned credit cards- is more temptation then he
can resist, and soon he and his little brother(Marlon Wayans)are on the
hilarious shopping spree of a lifetime. When a corrupt executive
discovers what Johnny is doing, he blackmails him into a dangerous
fraud scheme that threatens not only his credit rating , but his life.

In my opinion i would give this movie 7/10 stars Not that bad but it
could of been better
<|_=00=_|>
Trying to get his career into the A-list, Damon Wayans gets a job in a
credit card company. 

He falls in love with Stacy Dash, winning her over by mocking her well
educated, successful boyfriend

When he steals a couple of cards, the chief of security drags him into
the big leagues of criminals....

Blimey, how someone's opinion of film can change in twenty years. When
this was first released, it was one of my all time favourites, but I
was only fifteen, and I thought Wayans was excellent in The Last Boy
Scout, and this looked like fun.

Now even though the film is still fun, that's all it is, fun, and it's
devoid of any proper narrative until halfway through the second act. Up
until then it's just the Marlon and Damon comedy laugh in, as it just
feels like a string of sketches (albeit amusing ones) leading up to the
plot.

So the first forty five minutes is a sketch show,the last forty five an
action movie, with a few dabs of romance, and some very, very, baggy
clothes involved.

The toe leads are fun and keep the film together, Stacy Dash is
beautiful but cannot act for a bean, and Diehl is your atypical
nineties bad guy.

But the moral of the story is, its fun to steal, spend others money,
and get in trouble. Oh, and to steal a dead persons flowers.

But it's still a fun movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I hired this because a friend of mine said that it was good, but also
because Damon Wayans was in it and I find him to be a pretty good
actor. This is a cool little movie, but really only good the first time
one watches it. There are some funny things in it, but they are not
hugely hilarious to label it a cult movie.

Basically this film is about a con-artist whose dad was a cop who was
killed in the line of duty. As such he has given up on trying to be
anything and lives his life trying to make "mo money" from conning
people. He has a partner who looks up to him. After a rather clever
con-job, he is caught out and manages to escape only to be caught by a
transit cop. The judge dismisses the charges because his lawyer is
awful (basically he raves on about the injustice of the system in a
Negro evangelist sort of way) and thus he takes this final change to
try and go straight.

While selling books, be meets a rather nice lady, and applies for a job
where she works, being a credit card firm. It lands up that the
security consultant is using the cards to purchase some really
expensive things, and as the owners of the cards are dead, the company
gets billed. The guy tries his hand at the fraud at first, but when he
is caught, he is blackmailed into joining this gang.

I really can't think of anything in-depth about the movie with the
exception that it has the idea that once you are a criminal, it is very
difficult to escape your past. As they say, old habits die hard. He is
tempted and falls for it, but moreso, the bad guy uses his past as a
lever for blackmail to force him to continue. Thus we see that even
though he is struggling to go straight, he is not.

Really, there isn't much to comment about this movie anyway. In the end
it is a standard action/comedy which doesn't really stand out that
much. I enjoyed it, but it lacks any deep meaning, or simple plain fun,
that elevates others movies above it.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Stewart (Damon Wayans) and Seymour Stewart (Marlon Wayans) are
two brothers who make their living as con men. They make up a new
hustle and find a new victim to get their money. Unfortunately they are
not always able to stay out of jail. When Johny meets Amber Evans
(Stacey Dash) he is immediately in love with her. In order to find the
way to her heart he decides to get a normal job at the office where
Ambers works.

Mo'Money is a nice comedy. An attempt has been made to add some
suspense to the movie by adding a story line about credit card fraud.
The execution of this disappoints, which makes it feel tacked on and
rushed.

I like the humor in this movie and it's the main reason I watched it
again. One scene in which the brothers walk into a dining and tear it
up in order to get a free sandwich is hilarious. There are some other
scenes which I also like (like the one where Seymour wakes up in the
morning next to the girl he picked up the night before).

Mo'Money is not a movie everyone will like or laugh about, but it's one
which I like enough to have watched it again after not having seen it
for many years.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie wont win any awards, get a fresh tomato on
Rottentomatoes.com or be in the top 250 of IMDb(as if anybody cares
what these stupid sheep think!) but it was still a funny movie and
brought to you at a time when the Wayans Brothers were at the top of
their game.

Story: Johnny Stewart(Damon Wayans) is a hustler that plans on going
legit after meeting an attractive woman named Amber(Stacey Dash). So he
gets a job as a mail room clerk and ends up stealing a credit card and
goes on a shopping spree with his brother Seymour(Marlon Wayans). A
roguish executive finds out and extorts Johnny to do his bidding.

The funniest scenes: every scene involving the beauty-challenged
Charlotte is a riot. The scenes involving the lawyer that looks like a
cross between Khujo Goodie of Goodie Mob and Rodney King is a hoot
also. Damon and Marlon work well together on screen and generate the
most laughs. Stacey Dash is great also as Amber. If you like to see the
Wayans Brothers before they started making rubbish like Little Man than
this movie is for you. Also recommended is the soundtrack to this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Mo' Money is so funny. I can watch this movie over and over again. The
script is kinda dry, but overall its still a great movie. My favorite
part is when they are in the convenient store and Jhonny acts all
crazy. The store owner is so funny. He really played his part. I also
liked when Jhonny told this guy who tried to use the pay phone to shave
the "crust stache" off of his lip. Rev. Pimp daddy is a trip. I like
when he goes " I rest my soooouul" at the end of his opening statement.
The judge made me laugh when he told him to get out of his court room
before he put him away. Another good part was towards the end of the
movie when the nurse yelled "now get out of my face" to cornbread.
