
Once upon a time young children sat down with their Fathers or maybe
their bigger siblings and they watched a show. It was a television
program that held them transfixed with tales of bravura and
technological wonders. Lots of young children dreamed beautiful
creative dreams because of this show.

Fast forward to Christmas 2004. Lots of kids are gonna get a DVD called
"Thunderbirds". The producers of this movie should get used to the
singular "clang" sound because I can imagine lots of kids are going to
toss this into wastebaskets the day after (or maybe the same day). They
are throwing away the most thickheaded attempt at re-creating
television greatness that this reviewer has ever seen.

I am not saying that the original "The Thunderbirds" was the best of
shows. It was a puppet show for chrissake! It had huge limitations
based on what we know today.

But then? If you were a seven to fourteen year old kid? The
Thunderbirds was it! Jeff Tracey led and his sons followed, spirited
and eager. Scott was the eldest and Jeff's "rock". He had Thunderbird
1.reconnaissance and remote command and control platform . Virgil had
the looks but was so committed to Dad and the project. He had
Thunderbird 2the perennial heavy duty workhorse. Gordon, John and
Alan had the tough job of being expert in all the rest of the
equipment.all heroes. And then there was Brains. An unparalleled
engineering genius and our little secret. As much a part of the team as
any other single member. As much flawed and quirky as he was amazing
and lovable. Brains was not perfect, but he was the best Mother Earth
had to offer.

But the true beauty of this old show, the reason all of us got up at
6.00am to watch, was those wonderful beasts, the Thunderbirds
themselves. Gerry Anderson knew that his creations were the star of the
show and he made sure they were kept front and center.

So, with this movie, what the hell where the producers thinking?

Whoever was in charge, and I am not saying it was the Jonathan Frakes,
had simply no idea. Obviously they had no idea that they were playing
with an institution as opposed to a "cool plot idea".

The whole movie was two things.a Spy Kids clone and a running
advertisement for Ford..and that's it!

OK, the technical stuff was there. I thought the updating of our
beloved Thunderbirds was quite good to a point.

And Tracey Island seemed up to it. Had all the right stuff, except we
never saw it work right.

After that? It was all downhill into the pits. And it went pretty low.

The script wasn't written, it was excreted. The casting was abysmal.
The costuming was third rate.

As a Father, I would be embarrassed if my son said this was a cool
film. It would mean I would have to explain to him why it isn't. He is
gonna see the original series one day so I have to.

Whoever the mastermind is that concocted this mess should go away. To
the producers that still own the rights? Give it another shot. People
want to see the Tracey's solving problems as they do. Make my kids
proud. Make me proud.
<|_=00=_|>

The basic formula for the original series was; take someone, get the
audience to like them, then put them into Mortal danger. This formula
worked for the 32 episodes made between 1964-68. 

Now, we jump forward 40 years to 2004.. We are introduced to Alan
Tracy, a somewhat less-than-diligent college school kid, with his
friend, Fermat, a young know-it-all. They are whisked off by Lady
Penelope in her pink Ford Thunderbird to the island paradise where the
Tracy Family live, for the school holidays. Almost immediately, they
are left in the care of Kyrano and his daughter, Tin-Tin whilst the
adults go to rescue John from Thunderbird 5 which has been damaged by a
staged accident. This is all part of The Hood's scheme to take over
Tracy Island so that he can steal the Thunderbird machines ...

To rob a bank!

Yes. The plot IS as limp as that!

The dialogue is banal, the acting more wooden than that of the
(fibreglass) puppets, the effects, anything but special and Hans
Zimmer's score? What little there was of Barry Gray's glorious theme
shone through Zimmer's lackluster orchestration. The rest of the score
was eminently forgettable. In fact, part of the score was broadcast the
following week on the radio and didn't recognise it! I didn't even
bother to stay to witness Busted's mediocre efforts with the end titles

To be fair, Ron Cook worked quite well as Parker, he and Sophia Myles
as Penelope seemed wasted. With the right material, they could have
been show stoppers. The CGI work was what I would have called leading
edge - 5 years ago.

The Dynamics of the main craft were just wrong; The original series
models at least moved as if they had mass

Another sore point is that the whole production seemed to be one long
set of product placements, from every vehicle being built by Ford to
the entire content of the Tracy Freezer being produced by Ben &
Jerry's.

My son (9) enjoyed the film but this cross between Spy Kids and
'Clockstoppers', aimed squarely at his age group, added nothing to the
Thunderbirds legend. When Star Trek hit the big screen in 1979 with
'The Motion Picture', a whole new lease of life was breathed into the
franchise which then continued for another 20 years or so. With this
film, Frakes has missed a golden opportunity to do the same with the
Thunderbirds franchise.

I predict that this film, like 'The Avengers' and 'the Saint' before
it, will sink into obscurity within 6 months, leaving the original
series to its 'classic' status.

<|_=00=_|>
Johnathan Frakes is a good actor and, when he's not directing a family
film, a fine director. But, he really shouldn't have directed this
movie, and the screenplay should've been rejected. The director and
writers must understand what the original TV show was really about, as
well as who the characters were and how they worked. The original
series had many episodes with razor-sharp writing using good dialogue
and with situations that American producers would never consider using
in children's programming, much less a movie, which made the original
series so well received by adults. I mean, the Tracys were college
graduates and some of them did even drank alcohol and smoked tobacco!
And, there were characters who did get killed, although most were bad
guys. If they had written it the way that it was originally done, which
isn't dumbing things down with poor dialogue, kindergarten humor, and a
weak plot, this Universal/Studio Canal joint venture wouldn't have such
bad reviews. 

This motion picture is almost pure blasphemy. If you've seen the
original Supermarionation series, then you'll know what I'm talking
about! 

The first thing that was out of place and annoying were the constant
references to Ford Motor Company, even going so far that Lady Penelope
was riding around in a disfigured Ford Thunderbird made up to look like
FAB-1 instead of using what would've been more appropriate considering
Ms. Penelope's station (not to mention being more faithful to the
original), a ROLLS-ROYCE FAB-1. She's supposed to be a distinguished
member of British society, hence the preference for England's finest
make of motorcars in the original series. One other reviewer here
indicated that Penelope wouldn't be caught dead in a Ford. He's pretty
much right in the context that the idea of her riding in a Ford doesn't
work. At least they could have had Penelope ride in a Jaguar made up
like FAB 1 since Jaguar is a British car make that is owned by Ford,
but NO! They had to use a straight FORD! But the Ford product placement
doesn't end there. EVERY single car you may see is a Ford! Even the
news flash that is shown on the TV sets in the movie were sponsored by
Ford! Ford, Ford, FORD! The predominance of Ford vehicles makes this
movie an obvious marketing vehicle for Ford. 

The original series had a design that was futuristic for the 1960s and
still remains ahead of its time even today. But, the futuristic design
in the original series worked because there was an effort to make the
design look practical and functional. This kind of treatment didn't
exist in the movie, where everything is stylized to excess, defeating
the sense of functionality and practicality. A lot of things that were
done in the design of the movie were done strictly for style, many
times with no sense of function to give that style a sense of reason.

The original series relied on good acting performances of the voice
talent to overcome the limited expressions in the puppets, bringing
them to life in the episodes. The brilliant and lively music score by
Barry Gray helped even further to connect the audience with the story,
the characters, and how everything came together to help achieve the
super objective (a little bit of Stanislavski talk). The movie, on the
other hand, had some overly grating performances. Anthony Edwards
overplayed Brains to a fault, Bill Paxton as Jeff Tracy just didn't
work despite decent acting (one of few), there were better choices for
the Hood than Ben Kingsley, and many others that I don't care to
mention (it would take too long). Quite simply, the puppets were more
believable! Second was the overly generic and underwhelming music score
by Hans Zimmer, sounding more like a mix between "Days of Thunder" and
"Apollo 13." 

And, of course, the Hood. The Hood in the original series had an
ability to communicate with Kyrano through a statue of Kyrano as an
outlet for ESP contact. But, that was where his extraordinary
capability ended. He's a master of disguise and deception, which allows
him to sneak around undetected (for the most part, anyways) to gather
information of the Thunderbirds vehicles for his own means. He also
uses weapons for his own defense, including pistols, and generally
collects information using a film camera, although he tried to steal
Thudnerbirds 1 and 2 in the 1960s United Artists release of
"Thunderbird 6" (which was the last Thunderbirds show filmed in
Supermarionation and was the second Thunderbirds theatrical release).
But, while he is a nemesis of International Rescue, the Hood isn't the
villain in every Thunderbirds episode and he tends to avoid direct
confrontation with International Rescue. In the movie, he's obviously
the main villain, but he and his cohorts seem to act more like morons,
along with the Hood having extended mind control ability, including the
ability to move objects and move himself into flight for brief periods
of time. This totally deviates from the Hood as a character in the
original series with one that may leave kids laughing and people
familiar with the series scratching their heads in confusion or leaving
the theater in disgust.

There are more criticisms, but the 1000 word limit for IMDb reviews
will not allow me to list all of them. So, I will close with the point
being made that I didn't enjoy this movie. As a matter of fact, I think
it sucks! Having seen the original series and Supermarionation movies
(Thunderbirds Are Go, Thunderbird 6), I was hoping for something a lot
better than this.

The original Supermarionation was a lot more sophisticated and elegant
than this live action farce. (And that's saying it nicely.) - Kip Wells
<|_=00=_|>
'Thunderbirds' was an immensely popular Sixties show that has
transcended the years and generations to the point it is still as
popular now, with both adults and children alike, as it was in its
heyday. So, one would deduce the chance to produce a live-action
feature film with a million pound Hollywood budget was an excellent
opportunity to revive the series as has been done with 'Spider-Man' and
'The X-Men'. But a terrible storyline and bland acting obliterated this
opportunity and it was soon apparent all that was destined for this
film was a trip to the bargain bin of the kiddies' section.

Instead of a film focusing on the five Tracey sons, their father and
trusty geek Brain striving to rescue people and protect the world from
villains, our hero in this drudge is a malcontent and bratty
thirteen-year-old Alan Tracey, fourteen-year-old Tin-tin and
ten-year-old brain-box Fermat, son of Brains (yes, Brains' son despite
this being a man who could surely never score a woman if he tried;
maybe he grew the kid in a petri dish). As one can tell from a
run-through of our three lead characters, this 2004 remake
'Thunderbirds' was clearly aimed at entertaining only children under
twelve instead of trying to appeal to a broad age-range as those
involved in the much superior revival of 'Spider-Man' did. The plot
itself was so bland with clunky, awkward dialogue and weak jokes that
probably wouldn't amuse brighter pre-teens. The scriptwriter seemed
more interested in ripping off 'Spy Kids' (which was at least quirky
and original) instead of remaking the show people know and love.

Although Sophia Myles and Ron Cook were excellent as Miss Penelope and
Parker, they only had about three lines between them so their presence
was barely felt. Bill Paxton's Jeff Tracey was just boring and there
was only the slightest of mention of the other four Tracey boys while
Anthony Edwards and Ben Kingsley, as Brains and the Hood respectively,
were just embarrassing. The Hood, in particular, is not at all
threatening or sinister and instead comes across as a campy, two-bit
stereotypical villain as limp as a piece of rotting lettuce.

Brady Corbet, who plays Alan Tracey, may well be a good young actor but
it was hard to see that in a film where he plays a whinging brat who
just grates and the same goes for Vanessa Anne Hutchinson as Tin-tin
since the most she gets to do is look pretty and be all for 'Girl
Power'. Ironically, it is young Soren Fulton's Fermat who is the only
interesting character of the film as Fulton delivers a natural and
relaxed performance.

'Thunderbirds' the series will be forever remembered as an excellent
show that proves puppets can give solid performances! 'Thunderbirds'
the film will be forgotten by most and remembered by a few as one big
flop.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a truly awful film. What they have done is taken a TV show,
which was never aimed at young children & given it the George Lucas
treatment (i.e. ruined it by kiddifying it to appeal to the younger
audience).

OK so the Thunderbirds TV show wasn't exactly the most cerebral of
shows, in fact it was pretty formulaic, but it was always enjoyable to
watch (especially when the models got blown up) and the voice cast
wasn't too bad.

This suffers from bad casting & bad acting (with the notable exceptions
of Sophia Myles as Lady Penelope & Ron Cook as Parker, who seem to be
the only cast members to have a clue about how their characters should
be played) & after this travesty I wouldn't let Frakes direct traffic.

The whole point of Thunderbirds was that it was about the whole Tracy
family & how they worked as a team, preventing disasters or coming to
the rescue of those involved in disasters.

Avoid this rubbish like the plague.

I only give it 1 out of 10 because a zero rating is not supported.
<|_=00=_|>

OK..this movie could have been soooo good! All generations have been
exposed to Thunderbirds and have come to love it and this film had some
of the features one would look for in a good thunderbirds movie. The
craft themselves and Tracey Island were realistically transferred to
the big screen, whilst still keeping to the designs we fell in love
with. Sophia Miles was, simply, fantastic, as Lady P and Bill Paxton,
whilst not exactly who I envisaged Jeff Tracey being, was solid
enough...but then the adults were taken out of the equation and we were
asked to believe 8 year olds could fly 200 tonne machines.

It's not so much the fact that the movie was centred around the
children that made me feel like Jonathon Frakes was slapping me with a
wet fish and laughing at my hard earned money spent on the film, it was
the fact that Alan Tracey was so obnoxious in the film and that he
seemed to be as able to fly the machines as well as his brothers...who
were at least 19/20. Seriously, these are some pretty damn simple
machines to use if this is the case.

The film didn't seem to know whether it wanted to be serious or
farcical. It tried to pay homage whilst satirising and it just
generally fell flat on its face. 3/10 (2 for the machines, 1 for Lady
P)

<|_=00=_|>

As an admirer of the original television series and despite the 'mixed'
reviews, I decided that I would go and see "Thunderbirds" (I did debate
whether to go for some time but knew that I eventually would).

I have to say that the film was not as bad as I had feared -
unfortunately it wasn't all that good either. I did feel that the film
stayed with the "Thunderbirds" concept as originally conceived but went
off at a bit of a tangent.

The main problem with this film is that it is a terrible story. The
usual rescue activities of the Tracy brothers are confined to the
beginning and end of the picture while the middle is devoted to teenage
son Alan Tracy trying to outwit The Hood and his cohorts who have
seized control of Tracy Island and orbiting communications station
Thunderbird Five. The plot is remarkably shallow and a number of
opportunities to develop interesting themes (Why The Hood hates Jeff
Tracy, the death of Mrs. Tracy, Jeff and Alan, Tintin and Alan) are
missed. Deleted scenes on the DVD perhaps?

The original series of "Thunderbirds" never talked down to its
audience. It was not afraid of occasionally making social comment or
introducing scientific concepts. "Thunderbirds" in its 2004 incarnation
is incredibly bland and appears to have been made for those with a tiny
attention span (key facts about the characters were repeated several
times during the course of the movie).

No-one comes out of this movie particularly well - Ben Kingsley
probably gives the best performance as The Hood. I felt terribly sorry
for Anthony Edwards (Brains) who struggled to bring anything to his
part - the stammer gags were simply embarrassing and pointless.
Director Jonathan Frakes (Star Trek: First Contact, Insurrection) does
a competent job with the material - it's just a shame about the
material.

I did enjoy most of the CGI, although viewers can see most of this in
the trailer. A shot of Thunderbirds 1 and 2 looming over a hospital
were particularly impressive and I would have liked to have seen more
of the aircraft in action.

I do hope they have another go at "Thunderbirds". If they do, perhaps
they could have a decent rescue featured and more made of the Tracy's
ingenious machines (perhaps Scott, Virgil, Gordon and John might even
get a few lines?). Lady Penelope needs to be a little more resourceful
and come out on top occasionally, like her marionette predecessor.

My advice is that if you have to see this movie, wait to rent the DVD.

<|_=00=_|>
The original Thunderbirds earned a place in TV history. It was, and
still is, much beloved - indeed, the entire first 10 minutes of the
Wallace and Gromit movie (the Wererabbit) is a direct lift of
Thunderbirds, down to a direct replay of the original Thunderbird 2
launching sequence (if you don't believe me, get the movie, and then
get a copy of the original episode where Thunderbird 2 is launched).

This movie was a crass attempt at making a kids' movie - when the
original was loved and enjoyed by kids and adults alike! In the
original, the Thunderbirds spent all of their time rescuing people who
were often trapped when Mother Nature or Technology went horrible wrong
(yes, there was also the occasional criminal act). The Thunderbirds put
their own lives and resources at risk for no reward - the very essence
of heroism and selflessness. There was little physical violence. The
Thunderbirds challenged the imagination to a degree - how many of us
would dream of someday building a Thunderbird 2? And don't
underestimate the power of entertainment to do this - many Japanese
attribute their fascination with humanoid robots to the old Astroboy
cartoon.

But this movie was a poor re-image of the original. This movie came
across as a meld between Thunderbirds and Loony Tunes - I mean, we have
Anthony Edwards as Brain imitating Porky Pig's stuttering????? Much of
the action consists of Kung Fu/Power Rangers type fighting. Indeed,
there were funny sound effects when someone got nailed on the head with
a frying pan. The tech that fired our imagination was absent - instead
we have these kids running around, using a plot device that was NEVER
in the original series (having the entire team take off at once,
leaving the base occupied by the kids and Brain). Then there was a dose
of "Use the Force Luke" mysticism thrown in when TinTin would levitate
something or another, coupled with the The Hood using aerodynamics that
looked like they were lifted from "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon".
About the only thing missing was for The Hood to go "TinTin, I am your
Uncle" with a breath mask voice. The heart that made Thunderbirds
unique was GONE.

The only bright point was Ron Cook's portrayal of Parker - he caught it
perfectly. But the actress playing Lady Penelope came across as a child
- HUH???? 

And this is why we hate this movie. When someone puts out something
that was popular to a fan base, and expects the fans to shell out money
to watch, and then delivers something than wasn't even close to what
the fans expect - well, I am sorry, that is just plain WRONG! OK, so if
they were making a kids' movie - fine - next time distribute it
straight to video, where many of these belong. But don't package
something up in a familiar wrapper and change the innards.
<|_=00=_|>
I just wonder what prompted Gerry Anderson to allow his name to be
associated with this travesty; though I guess it must have been an
awful lot of money. Everything about this film was so  so wrong and a
total corruption of what Thunderbirds, the team and their FABulous
rescue vehicles was about. This was not about International Rescue.
This was more about the Tracey Family and with the exception of the
first few minutes the only rescuing seen in the movie was the rescue of
themselves from a situation preposterous in the extreme. This was "The
Brady Bunch" with special effects. Being an ardent fan of the original
Thunderbirds series, which was imaginative and entertaining (despite
the strings!), I bought the DVD of the film for my grandchildren on the
premise that they might enjoy it. All I can say is that I'm glad it was
an "on offer cheap". If you are a Gerry Anderson fan don't watch this
movie; you'll be frozen in your seat in total disbelief and dismay. My
copy is destined for the next 'car-boot' sale  if I can shrug off the
guilt for passing it on.
<|_=00=_|>
I grew up (b. 1965) watching and loving the Thunderbirds. All my mates
at school watched. We played "Thunderbirds" before school, during lunch
and after school. We all wanted to be Virgil or Scott. No one wanted to
be Alan. Counting down from 5 became an art form. I took my children to
see the movie hoping they would get a glimpse of what I loved as a
child. How bitterly disappointing. The only high point was the snappy
theme tune. Not that it could compare with the original score of the
Thunderbirds. Thankfully early Saturday mornings one television channel
still plays reruns of the series Gerry Anderson and his wife created.
Jonatha Frakes should hand in his directors chair, his version was
completely hopeless. A waste of film. Utter rubbish. A CGI remake may
be acceptable but replacing marionettes with Homo sapiens subsp.
sapiens was a huge error of judgment.
