
I love this movie! I read the book and have seen it many times. I note
that the same questions keep appearing over and over. I think by now I
am qualified to answer them, or to at least give my opinions.

**Why does Laura choose to 'flush' her ring down the toilet instead of
taking it off while she is in the ocean or pawning it?** Because she is
symbolically ridding herself of Martin and their dysfunctional
marriage. She is in a hurry to get out of the house and never stops to
think that the ring might remain in the toilet bowl. Under the
circumstances, would you? 

**How did the lady from the YMCA get Martin's work number? And after
Martin said he didn't know what she was talking about, why did the lady
continue to give Laura's life story?** Martin was a successful Boston
businessman. Laura took swim lessons at the Y in Boston for several
months and apparently got to know some of the women fairly well. Her
name and her husband's name were undoubtedly well known by the time she
finished her swim lessons and moved on. It probably only took a look in
the Boston phone book to find Martin, as Laura had nothing to hide at
the time of the swim lessons (except the bruises, which she explained
away) and surely mentioned where he worked, or he had an individual
listing. The lady was certain she had the right person when she was
talking to Martin, so unfortunately she developed diarrhea of the mouth
and provided Martin with too many details.

**Why was the ring still in the toilet when Martin cut his finger
months later? Didn't he use the toilet in those months? Or does he have
a serious digestive problem?** I am surprised so many people overlooked
this: the house at the Cape was the Burneys' weekend/summer home.
Martin Burney worked in Boston, and they had a house there where they
lived during the week. When his wife "died", Martin immediately closed
up the Cape house - hence the coverings on the furniture when he
returned months later - and moved to their house in Boston. Guess he
didn't have to pee before he left, or he used one of the other
bathrooms in the house.

**How did Laura get a house under an alias without a driver's license?
What...in Iowa you don't need identification to buy a house or a car?
And where did she get the money?** Laura did not BUY a house, she
rented it, and for very little, in cash. She apparently bought a used
car. As we saw when she returned to the Cape house after faking her
death to collect her things and run away, there was a big wad of cash
in her travel bag. I don't remember all the details from the book, but
obviously she had been saving money all along. She worked part-time at
the library in Boston (after her 8:00 a.m. swim lessons, one presumes),
so had her own money as well as whatever she could save from the money
Martin gave her for groceries, etc. Money talks, in Iowa like anywhere
else! 

**Just because Laura didn't want to have sex with Ben, Ben asks "Oh my
god, what did he do to you?' How the heck does he know that anything
happened? What does he have as evidence besides the facts that he
called her in a crowd and she didn't respond, and she had a bruise on
her head? That's a pretty great assumption to make.** Ben was a
perceptive, intelligent guy. He knew right after meeting her that
something was seriously wrong in her life and that she was hiding her
identity for a reason. He put things together pretty quickly, but
figuring out that she was running from an abusive man wasn't exactly
rocket science with all the clues she gave out.

**And the thing that really makes me mad. She hears a noise so it must
be her husband. Instead of calling the cops or running out of the
house...she goes and checks the cabinets to see if all of the cans are
neatly arranged. I know that this does happenÂ…but if your husband was
in your house, what the heck would make you think that he took the time
to arrange your cabinet and he's not just going to kill you?** The man
had been terrorizing her for four years. She was paranoid. She wasn't
thinking clearly and was doubting her sanity. Call it Suspense Movie
Syndrome - just gotta look in that dark room/closet!
<|_=00=_|>

I think most people tend to overlook how well-done the first 20 minutes of
this movie really are. Ruben carefully builds a creepy atmosphere, relying
on brief glances, moments of silence and quietly expressive performances
(especially by Julia Roberts) to help the viewer understand that, behind the
image of a perfect couple, something is really wrong. Unfortunately, after
Roberts escapes from her husband, the movie turns into a strictly
by-the-numbers thriller, where you can predict almost every development of
the script. It's a visually polished movie, though, and the very good
performances give it a strong psychological center that keeps it
above-average.


<|_=00=_|>
I just bought the DVD of this film and was surprised to find that a
graphic scene was removed from the early moments. I remember from
seeing the movie in previous times (on television) that when Laura and
Martin come home from the party, he begins his little "love-making"
session. We see from Laura's expression that her husband is really
raping her. This scene is not on my DVD; it ends right after Laura
drops the bowl of strawberries. Why was the scene taken out for the
DVD? Perhaps there are enough other clues to Martin's true nature but
it is odd that this scene, which is one of the first to clue the
audience in to the menace of the situation, is missing. The
implications of Martin's favorite music and the Pavlovian horror it
instills in Laura is somewhat cheapened by the deletion of the rape
scene. I know that there are sometimes different edits of films when
they are released on television, but I would have expected this sex
scene to be taken out for TV, and not for the DVD!
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike some, I LIKE this lady and this is my favourite film of hers.
After watching it for the nth time I was moved to buy the book on which
it is based and this is a far more complex affair than the film, which
simplifies everything and leaves out several characters altogether. I
think Nancy Price did a far better job of studying an abused wife, who
never really stopped loving her brute of a husband, than the makers of
the film. It depicts Sara/Laura as a far more interesting character
than the somewhat insipid Julia Roberts version.

If you have read the book, then some little touches in the film (i.e. -
African Violets) become clearer.
<|_=00=_|>
"Self-defense isn't murder" That was the tag line of "Enough", a film
that didn't know the difference between self-defense and pre-meditated
murder. It would have been a better tag line for "Sleeping With the
Enemy", a movie that does know the difference. Whereas Slim plotted and
planned her husband's violent death, "Enemy"'s protagonist, Laura, acts
in the heat of a moment and, most importantly, her actions are
justified.

Laura and Martin have been married for four years, and seem perfectly
happy. Unfortunately, Martin's severe Obsessive/Compulsive Disorder and
self-confidence issues have put a strain on the marriage. Laura simply
can not live up to the standards he needs to keep his OCD under
control. If the towels aren't hung correctly on the towel bar, or if
the pantry isn't organized just right, he has a fit of uncontrollable
anger. When Martin's fits elevate to physical attacks against Laura,
she leaves him.

Laura fakes her own death and then begins life anew in a small town
with a new identity, and she has a romance with a man named Ben.

Thankfully the movie doesn't try to justify Laura's running away or her
adultery, or make her seem perfect; it simply shows the choices she
makes. Whether she makes the right choices is all up to your own moral
radar, and I like that. If this were "Enough", the case would likely be
much different. But this isn't "Enough". This is much, much better.

"Sleeping With the Enemy" is a smart film that actually let's the
audience see why Laura feels she has the right to leave Martin. Mostly
it has to do with her own inability to deal with Martin's mental
infirmities, and that's an understandable problem. OCD can ruin lives,
and it can seem overwhelming when you try to help someone who suffers
from it. I'm not saying it's right to run away, but her fear is
legitimately justifiable. And it's obviously her fear that causes her
to overlook the possibility of getting Martin some help.

Her killing Martin is also justifiable. When he bursts into her house
with a gun, that provides a reason to kill him. And, what do you know,
it makes sense. Do I even have to say the E word again? We all know
that movie provides no good reasons for anything that it's characters
do. Even though the end of Sleeping With the Enemy is predictable, it's
really the only ending the movie can logically come to by that point so
I really can't complain, and I'll stay off my soapbox. Besides, I need
to save it for when I review "Irreversible." 

"Sleeping With the Enemy" has other merits besides the smart script.
For one, the cinematography is beautiful, especially in the early
scenes at Laura and Martin's beach-front home. I was left saying "Wow."
Another selling point is the acting. Julia Roberts, who usually bugs
me, does a fine job as Laura. She never takes it into the territory of
melodrama or schlock, thankfully. Patrick Bergen, as Martin, does a
good job of portraying a sufferer of OCD and, when Laura's ruse is
revealed, an enraged husband. He has reason to be angry with Laura for
leaving him (or so he believes thanks to his mental issues), plus he
has those self-confidence issues that fuel his instability. To some he
may seem over-the-top, but to me he seemed very real. Like I said, OCD
wrecks those who suffer from it.

My only real problems with the movie were the silly way Martin died
(Three bullets, and he's still standing? Please!) and an unnecessary
dance number with Laura and Ben. Why is it that some filmmakers deem it
necessary to use pointless dance routines to show that two people are
in love? And what place do songs like "Runaround Sue" and "Brown-Eyed
Girl" have in a movie like this? However distracting those errors may
be, "Sleeping with the Enemy" is a fine movie that actually makes the
effort to realistically portray real issues. And for that, I commend
it.
<|_=00=_|>

What a great movie. One of Julia Robert's best performances.

The start of the movie seems fine Laura and Martin seem like a happily
married couple, then you see a scene where Martin berates her about hanging
the bathroom towels out of order and then, Laura desperately tries to
arrange the tins in the cupboard exactly right. Everything is definitely not
alright when you see Martin punch Laura in the head.

This is the story of how Laura fakes her own death and tries to make a new
life for herself.

You really feel for Laura and Martin is a really evil guy, who is portrayed
very scarily.

The music is beautiful and sad, one of the loveliest soundtracks I have ever
heard.

I really recommend this film to other women, although it is not aimed
entirely at the female audience, I feel we get more out of
it
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie, if not terribly believable, very moving and
emotional when I saw it some years back. Julia Roberts brings a real
vulnerability to all her roles, and is perfect here as the affluent but
both mentally and physically abused wife.

The sad tale revolves around an apparently perfect upper middle class
couple who share a beach home...the beautiful young Laura (who has
every material comfort) and her obsessive and abusive husband, Martin.
Laura lives in terror of her abuser, finally seizing a chance to escape
by faking her own death and and fleeing to another town, where she
assumes an entirely new identity. Meanwhile, Martin becomes ballistic
when he discovers that his wife is not really dead and goes after
her...

I admit it, the plot is pretty far fetched, a lot of holes in the
story, some events depicted not very believable. Leave your logic
behind. Still, I was able to overlook all this and focus my attention
on Laura's plight, hoping she could evade (or eliminate) this
intellectual brute, and build a new life for herself with a new love.

The portrayal of Laura's terror is vivid as she tries to appease her
obsessive husband, who becomes violent if she fails to keep the pantry
shelf items in perfect alignment. The most chilling scene of all is the
rape, with its accompaniment of Martin's favorite classical music, a
piece which thereafter haunts his young wife. No sympathy here for the
husband, whose unfolding actions simply go from unspeakable to
unthinkable.

Not a particularly believable plot but engrossing, nevertheless, and a
pair of vividly drawn characters who elicit strong emotions. However,
the best part of this movie is definitely its message. Contrary to the
typical image, spousal abuse is no respecter of social class. It would
have been much more difficult for me before this film than it is now to
picture an affluent, educated, sophisticated abuser.
<|_=00=_|>
Laura marries Martin Burney who appears to be the perfect man, he is
handsome and successful, yet the dream of the perfect man becomes a
nightmare as Martin is a control freak who abuses her both physically
and mentally. Once she decides enough is enough she plots her escape by
way of faking her own death by drowning, a new life beckons, but she
will always be looking over her shoulder to see if Martin finds out the
truth and tracks her down.

Thus the vehicle for Julia Roberts pans out as your just above average
thriller. It has some decent moments that keep it from drifting into
tedium, the set up perfectly portrays the double life that some people
lead, on the social circuit it appears the couple are happy and at one
with each other, yet behind their own walls there is violence and the
crushing of the spirit. The final third of the film is also well worthy
of the word thriller, for the tension is nigh on unbearable as we
slowly come to the conclusion, whilst Julia Roberts as Laura does a
very tidy job as this sort of modern day princess escaping the evil
clutches of her keeper. Must mention the great use of Berlioz's
Symphonie Fantastique, it's eerie and impacts hard for the scenes it is
used for.

Patrick Bergin plays his role well enough, it's just that his villainy
is never fully realised, we see enough to know that what he does is
wrong, yet it feels a bit too polished. Whilst a sequence that sees
Laura dress up as a man is clearly the low point of the film, it really
does stretch the viewers patience, and sadly insults their respective
intelligence. It's a mixed bag that isn't quite a waste of time, it
just doesn't leave you with anything other than a feeling of being semi
fulfilled, shame as it could have been brilliant with a bit more
bravery and brains in the script, 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY resembles the kind of movie they show endlessly
on the Lifetime channel. The men are either weak and ineffectual or
psychotic.It was rightfully parodied by the movie FATAL INSTINCT. For
the most part, the cheese factor is high, with plot devices scattered
about everywhere, as well as a number of holes mentioned in other
reviews. The characters act the way they do because the story requires
them to do so. The scenery is wonderful, particularly at the beginning
with the boats and the ocean. Patrick Bergin is great as Julia
Roberts's obsessive-compulsive creep of a husband. Roberts has more
chemistry with him than anyone else in the movie...
<|_=00=_|>
In "Sleeping With The Enemy" things are not always as they appear to
be. On the surface, Laura Burney (Julia Roberts) and her husband Martin
(Patrick Bergin) are a wealthy and contented couple who enjoy a
comfortable lifestyle and spend their leisure time at their luxurious
house by the beach at Cape Cod. In reality though, Laura lives in a
state of constant fear which has been created by Martin's abusive
behaviour.

Martin is a control freak with an obsessive compulsive disorder and a
very cold personality. He gets insanely jealous when he imagines that
Laura may be attracted to someone else and even exercises control over
what clothes she wears. He beats her when her behaviour displeases him
and then gives her flowers to show how much he cares about her.

Within this relationship, the terrified Laura appears to be completely
obedient and passive but in reality, she has for some time been
planning to escape. Her husband knows her as a person who isn't able to
swim and has a fear of water. In reality, she's secretly taken swimming
lessons and this eventually enables her to fake her own death when the
couple are involved in an accident at sea and she falls overboard and
disappears.

Laura secretly moves to Cedar Falls in Iowa, changes her name, makes a
fresh start and soon meets Ben Woodward (Kevin Anderson) who's a drama
teacher at the local college. She enjoys their friendship and also
being able to visit her invalid mother at a nearby nursing home.

Martin is under the impression that Laura's mother had passed away some
time ago but when he starts to find pieces of information which make
him suspect that his wife is still alive, his investigations soon
reveal that the reality is somewhat different and that Laura's mother
is actually a resident at the nursing home near Cedar Falls.

Laura who seemed to have successfully escaped from her abuser soon
discovers that, in reality, her intensely possessive and extremely
violent husband will go to any lengths to ensure that she doesn't gain
her freedom.

"Sleeping With The Enemy" is an entertaining movie which focuses on a
form of violence which is rarely featured in commercial thrillers and
maybe it's for this reason that some of scenes in which Laura is beaten
seem so shocking, even to audiences whose exposure to on-screen
violence has hardened their responses.

Julia Roberts gives a sympathetic performance as a victim of domestic
abuse who is trapped in a nightmare from which there seems to be no way
out and also convincingly portrays the anxieties which her character
continues to experience when she starts her new life in Iowa. Patrick
Bergin is believable as a violent psychopath whose need for perfection
in all things has grown to an absurd proportion and in addition, Kevin
Anderson is good as Ben who in complete contrast to Martin is good
natured, sensitive and caring.
