
This movie doesn't quite have the awesome start the first one did  but
I'll take a few decomposing Gatlin residents over nothing.

It's the aftermath of the downfall of the creepy munchkin Isaac, the
Ginger Ninja Malachi, and He Who Walks Behind the Rows. And reporters
and residents from Hemingford the neighbouring town have descended upon
Gatlin, with the surviving Gatlin kids being farmed off to new families
so the carnage can start again.

Coming to join the corn party is a teenage boy with a horrible haircut,
Danny, his daddy issues and his daddy. They stay with 'attractive
hostess with no real story' who has taken in a Gatlin kid called Micah,
who also has daddy issues, so of course a friendship springs up between
Danny and Micah that eventually leads to sacrificing people, as is the
natural course of things.

Nothing much really happens after that. The Gatlin kids shuffle around
town in a group staring at stuff. I've decided that Micah is the best
starer  he really tries at it. And blah blah blah  people start
dying. I'm bored already.

My favourite death (so few times you get to start a sentence that way)
would be the old lady under the house, with all her howling and honking
and crappy acting I was hoping one of the five year olds would just run
up and start kicking her in the stomach  alas not to be, but she was
crushed and the kids stood in their group and stared. Followed closely
by the man who just started haemorrhaging blood all over the church.
(Micah did some of his best staring in this scene  watch out for it)
During this time, Danny has found love with a pretty young girl called
Needy McNeederson. His daddy starts making sweet sweet love to
'attractive hostess with no real story' and there's some weird back
story stuff thrown in about the corn and poisons and old Indian legends
etched into rocks. None of it really makes any sense  doesn't fit in
with the story in any way but it is told by a wise old American Indian
man  so that lends some serious weight to what is being said.

It all ends where it should  in the corn. Attempted sacrifices are
abound, professions of love and apologies are made. Micah's yelling all
over the place and doesn't seem to be staring as much which makes me
sad. He Who Walks Behind the Rows turns up briefly and does his thing.
It's just another day with the Children of the Corn.

All in all, a pretty crappy sequel  but if you watch one, you gotta
watch em all. Next up; Children of the Corn 3 Gangsta Corn.
<|_=00=_|>
Although I am a horror fan I didn't enjoy the first Children of the
Corn film much, so my view might be a little biased. Although having
said that the movie did have its good points, the children were good
actors/actresses, the violence was realistic and in moments semi
chilling. Unfortunately this sequel shares none of these traits.

*spoilers*

The first death scene is quite surprising, I mean the guys are killed
by corn, well that is dodgy. In the Stephen King short story the corn
was there to serve as the vector for the children's pagan blood lust.
They were killing to make it grow, though it is fantasy/horror it makes
more sense than killer corn leaves that can smash through glass by
simply being blown in a gust of wind believe me. Not only that but this
scene reminds me so much of The Omen it's unbelievable, and what's with
the Friday the 13th sound effects and Predator visuals? Hell this
monster in the corn even has Return of the Jedi force powers!

And what's with the old woman's demise, crushed to death by her own
house? Now that is quite original, and when I was first told of this by
my Cousin I pictured it vividly. Someone slowly being crushed under
their own house, nobody finds the body, nobody even knows she's dead,
until finally the smell of muddy hair, rotted flesh and mushed bones
greet the next visitor on that hot summers morning.

Maybe I was putting too much thought into this segment because yet
again this is a scene ruined by cheesy references to other films. The
lady goes under her house after her precious cat. When she is directly
in the centre the children surround it, take the cat out and release
the device raising it from the ground. The house slowly starts to come
down on her and she wiggles backwards trying to escape. The children
just stand there trying to look creepy, she almost gets out, why aren't
they kicking her to force her to crawl back under? In the original at
least the kids were violent; in this they just try to be mysterious.
Well luckily for them she is too old to escape certain death and the
house reaches the ground level crushing her lifeless and leaving her
legs poking out from underneath. But even that isn't enough for the
cheesily poor script writers, who wrote in that her last words should
be "oh what a world!"? seriously they need to be slapped. All realism
is thrown out the window at this point, that is if you hadn't done so
already what with the Journalist mentioning in a almost tribute manner
"Jones Town" just to be controversial (or maybe its just that all
American news reporters are inconsiderate slimeballs) and the "killer
predator in the corn" bull.

And how many times is the word "corn" used in this film anyway? Every
time uttered its like a needle being drilled into my brain. Just stop
already we get it.

The Dr who was being nice to the children earlier on in the film gets
the worst death ever, and I mean worst, luckily he gets a lolly
straight after. I wish I could tell you more but unfortunately I fell
asleep, well it was 5am so it could have been that, but let's put it
this way I'm an insomniac.

This film does have its good scenes, mainly when Danny is arguing with
his dad, the teenage wit and angry demanding parent though
stereotypical is realistic and at least gives the movie some sense of
reality before it generates into the monomania of your average American
teen horrorfest.

If you're a fan of the original maybe you should ignore my small
analyses, it's possible you might like this. I mean the Freddy films
became a bit silly, humorous, comic book and people still enjoyed them
(I know I'm one of them) But the fact of the matter is, if your looking
for a serious, creepy, dark horror film then your best bet is to stay
away from this horrid sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
After the disappointing King horror film about a weird cult who worship
crops comes the sequel. This has all the makings of a lame duck in
classic 1990's style.

The same cult that destroyed the lives of adults in the first film are
"rescued" and adopted by a modern American housing estate town. What
this means is, plenty of adults die and He Who Walks Behind The Rows is
mentioned approximately once every one minute thirty seconds and
frustration ensues. Surely any god is going to be embarrassed at such a
crap name, but these Amish kids are not only stupid but ugly as well.

Finding laughs with this film is like shooting fish in a barrel, albeit
unintentional. Surely finding death amusing shows an unhealthy mind,
but the victims in this must surely deserve death for their stupidity.
A prime example being an elderly woman who's house is somehow propelled
by a lift, who just happened to be misfortunate enough to become
crushed by her own house rescuing her moggy. Or how about the
wheelchair-bound granny that conveniently crashes through the window of
a bingo hall at the shout of full house. The drinks are on him! Oh, how
this movie has something against the pensioners. There's also some
great acting by the church vicar who manages to patronise even the cult
who worship the thing named He Who Walks Behind The Rows.

So as you can guess COTC2 doesn't really require much intelligence to
watch. It's basically a rehash of COTC, with elderly people being
picked off in their dozens and lots of kids reciting Shakespeare
incorrectly.

2/5
<|_=00=_|>
Apparently it's not a good idea to sit in the nosebleed section of a
church; black contact lenses lend evil powers to anyone who wears them;
you should never climb under your house in search of your kitty,
especially if evil-looking children are lurking about. These are just
some of a few lessons to be taken from the sequel nobody expected that
snowballed into the franchise nobody wanted, "Children of the Corn II:
The Final Sacrifice." 

Picking up after the events of the first film, a tabloid-journalist and
his teenage son are passing through a small neighboring town of Gatlin,
Nebraska shortly after those corn-husking little munchkins laid it to
waste. Looking for his big break, the father/journalist decides to stay
in town for a while. After merely a few days in town, he receives his
fair-share of white-man's guilt from the resident Native America,
uncovers a moldy corn conspiracy (a plot point which goes virtually
nowhere) and plows the field of a innkeeper. Meanwhile, his son
attempts to sow some seeds of his own with the girl-next-door who
appears to the only one under the age of 18 in town who isn't under the
trance of the mysterious maze.

It must be said that by no means is "Children of the Corn II" a
particularly great film. Like the first, it's pretty basic and
predictable. It seems as if the script for the first film was tweaked
just slightly to concoct a sequel and it shows with plot-holes the size
of Nebraska (see what I did there?). Director David Price -- whose
resume is as equally unimpressive as the film's script -- loves to
inject a lot of ridiculous gore into the film, but forsakes logic in
doing so. You'll see corn husks slashing throats, a nosebleed that
somehow turns into an earache and a house falling on a woman who
doesn't seem to understand she can either try crawling out or hide in
between the beams. Nevermind that, though. You don't come here for
logic, and Price knows that. With his made-for-TV movie cinematography,
you can be rest assured you'll know exactly what you're getting into
within the first five minutes of the film.

But what about the cast? Kudos must go out to Ryan Bollman who does his
best to look as menacing as possible as the leader of the kiddy cult.
Someone ground that kid! On the other side of the coin, you have
Terence Knox, resembling what would happen if Bill Pullman and Alec
Baldwin gave birth to a bloated baby. Knox seems to be apathetic about
the whole thing, as best evidenced by his reaction to the death of a
friend by the end of the film. He steps it up a notch when he is caught
sinning rather vigorously by his son, but this scene is so
uninteresting, you'll feel the same sort of apathy toward it as the
actor does the film. I guess you just can't expect Academy Award
material with these films, but would it hurt to have actors who care
about more than cashing in their paychecks carrying a film? 

When all is said and done, in spite of its glaring flaws, "Children of
the Corn II: The Final Sacrifice" is easily the best sequel in the
"Children of the Corn" series, but that's not saying much. When you
consider the films that followed in its wake, it's almost a back-handed
compliment. Then again, the first "Children of the Corn" wasn't
ground-breaking cinema by any stretch of the imagination, so the fact
that any sequel to it can deliver the most basic entertainment is a
miracle in and of itself. To that end, "The Final Sacrifice" is a
rather schlocky but suitable guilty-pleasure follow-up. If you've
suffered through enough "Amityvilles" or "Howlings" then there is no
reason you can't sit through this one as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the worsted children of the corn movies but i
have only seen number 1,2,3 and 7. Of course this film is corny because
it is all about corn Thought that there were only one or two good
scenes for example micah (bollman) is in Church and has a wooden doll
and knife there is someone sitting across from him then micah starts
putting the knife up the doll's nose and the guy across from him nose
starts to bleed then micah keeps on doing it until the guy dies and the
other good part is when micah dies. See They weren't that good but the
were the best scenes.

I would like to say Ryan Bollman is one of the worst actors so was
practically everyone that was in the movie, He shouted like microphones
weren't invented. This movie should not be seen
<|_=00=_|>
The second film in the monotonous maize-based horror series takes place
soon after the events of the first film, with reporter Terence Knox
trying to discover what happened in the now empty town. Oddly, although
every adult in sight and several children are dead, the cops disappear
after a few minutes, leaving Knox free to discover bodies all over the
place. 

It's the same mixture as before - various characters are killed by a
group of spooky kids and their cornfield - with the addition of
perfunctory romances and boring troubles between father and son. The
film is repetitious beyond belief, seems twice as long as it really is,
and as the plot revolves around Knox piecing together what we already
know it's also entirely redundant.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fifteen when I first saw Children of the Corn 2. And I loved it.
Then again, I hadn't seen much horror at the time. However, over twenty
years later and I find myself realising how little I knew about decent
cinema when I was a teenager.

Don't get me wrong. I thoroughly enjoyed Children of the Corn 2 yet
again, but now I found myself laughing heartily all the way though.
Seriously, some comedies don't make me laugh as much as this film did
(now, in the cold light of my adulthood).

If you can ignore the use of the word 'final' in the title (there are
about four more Children of the Corn films afterwards) and be prepared
not to take this story that seriously, you may just enjoy some of the
most ludicrous death scenes ever committed on the elderly. The story
follows a boy and his single parent father, coming to the nearby town
in search of a story as to what happened to the adults who were now
found to have been murdered by the children of the town. Once this pair
arrive, both instantly fall in love with beautiful women and discover
that a young lad by the name of Micha, leads a group of local children
to stare intently at adults before dropping houses on them. If you
watch this movie you will realise it has some of the most intense
staring ever committed to film. Besides the beautiful women and staring
brats, there's also a wise old native American, some 'Predator-vision'
from the monster (or 'he who hides behind the rows') and a sheriff who
tries to kill people like he was a Bond villain.

How this film was supposed to be taken seriously, I'll never know. Just
know what you're getting before you watch this. Take the biggest pinch
of salt you'll ever take, suspend your disbelief like you never have
before and sit back and enjoy one of the most daftly funny horror films
ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
Arriving in Gatlin, Nebraska, a news-reporter and his son get wind of a
story about the youth in the town murdering their parents finds that a
series of brutal murders are revealed to be worshipers of the
corn-stalks and try to stop them before they carry out their plans.

While not a completely worthless sequel, it does have enough to make it
interesting without being all that terrible. One thing it does do right
is play around with the supernatural better than expected and did have
some good moments to it featuring this. The very first attack in the
cornfield is really fun as the howling wind and strange lightning
blasts befalling the reporters while they're in the corn rows before
the huge tree falls into the area, while other really good action
moments are packed in amongst the other supernatural occurrences here
as house-falling sequence and the scene in the church provide some fun
since they involve a great amount of suspense. There's even a few other
really good scenes that come from the different meetings held among the
corn-stalks, and a really tense moment later on where a couple make a
particularly gruesome discovery among the corn that provides a good
shock that comes out of nowhere. Even better than that is where the
remaining adults are trapped inside a burning building, which is one of
the better scenes in the film with the fire and the panic providing
plenty to like.The last big plus is the finale, which is just all sorts
of good cheesy action-packed fun, some wonderful ideas and an overall
really great way to end the film. All-in-all, this is just cheesy good
fun. This one wasn't that bad, but there were a few problems. The most
obvious one is the flaw concerning the back- story. It's implied to be
a continuation of the first one, where the survivors are bused into
foster homes of a neighboring town, yet that raises a few problems.
Firstly, it's never stated whether or not this was true despite giving
plenty of evidence that this was the case. The events of what happened
there were well-known, yet the children here are allowed to go away
without being questioned, as well as having a method of still getting
in touch with each other quite easily which simply makes their rampage
later on seem all the more out-of-place when it echoes what happened
before in the the other town. Those doesn't make any sense at all and
are quite annoying. There's also the fact that the pacing is a little
off, as the romance angles cut into the middle of the film when the
mysterious stuff starts happening, and way too much times goes by
before anyone thinks anything is going wrong. The biggest one, though,
is that it's way too cheesy. The film's concept and several of it's big
action scenes do reek of cheese, and the film as a whole does reflect
this. These really keep the film down somewhat.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity and mild sex
scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a fine follow up sequel in the corn series that picks up a
week later where the kids are being transported by his to a new town
nearby.

What made this special is it follows the themes of the first film and
becomes its own entity. Its actually creepy, suspenseful and the acting
isn't shabby

The school house going up in flames like the kids watch or when the
doctor is being stalked is nightmarish.

Some of the death scenes are a bit ridiculous like the remote control
wheel chair and the wicked witch death being reused to kill an old
teacher who left Galin before the massacre and trust the teenagers for
killing the their parents.

Another plot that can be confusing is an old Indian who talks about a
legend of wild kids who killed their parents and the men talking about
a pesticide in the corn that drives people crazy.

Are they saying the corn God isn't real or does he infect his followers
by eating the corn against their will? 

Another submit is a bit who gates his father for Not spending time with
him and tries to rebel only to bond after he's saved from the final
sacrifice. A common theme of parents and kids at odds.

Its a step down from the first, but it was a wonderful follow up and
really expanded up on the mythology.
<|_=00=_|>
Children of the Corn II is not all that bad. They did try to stick in
the vein/tradition of the original film - which is good. We have our
reverend or preacher Micah who is a lot like Issac of the first film
but not exactly like him. I found this to be done fairly well just not
as good as the original.

I wasn't crazy about the father and son drama - but it was okay - it
filled out the story. What I did find funny was the father and the son
both finding a girlfriend because it was not necessary to the film it
was just more time filler scenes.

I also was not crazy about the silly deaths in this one - they really
went overboard with the campiness here. I much prefer the original
because the film took itself seriously whereas this film went for campy
humor.

Overall this is not to bad of a 2nd film but it could have been a lot
better than it is - the potential was there.

6/10
