

One of the standard received ideas of film criticism is to say that
sequels are almost never as good as the original film. (There are also
a few standard exceptions to this rule, such as 'The Godfather Part 2'
and the second and third parts of the 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy).
Subject to these exceptions, however, there seems to be a law of
diminishing returns to the effect that the more sequels a franchise
spawns, the worse they become. The Bond films, however, seem to me to
provide the most striking exception to this principle. The franchise
started with 'Dr No' in the early sixties, and 'Tomorrow Never Dies'
amounts to 'James Bond XVIII', or 'James Bond XIX' if one includes
'Never Say Never Again' in the total. Despite this, one can watch the
latest offerings with as much pleasure as the original Sean Connery
films from the sixties and seventies. 

The Bond films are highly formulaic. They typically start with an
action sequence before the opening credits that has little or nothing
to do with the film that is to follow. The main story will involve Bond
thwarting a dastardly plot by some megalomaniac bent on world
domination. It will always involve at least one extended chase
sequence, and possibly two or more. The main character, apart from Bond
and the villain, will always be a beautiful young woman who helps Bond
in his quest and who will end up by falling for him. There will always
be at least one other beautiful girl, either as a secondary heroine or
as a villainess. The villain will always have a small army of henchmen
ready to do battle on his behalf. The story will always end with a
shoot-out, normally in the villain's headquarters, in which Bond
manages to avert the threatened disaster at the last minute.

'Tomorrow Never Dies' contains all these formulaic elements. It is,
nevertheless, in my view one of the better entries in the Bond canon,
for a number of reasons beyond the fact that Pierce Brosnan is the best
Bond since Connery. These can be summarised as follows:-

1. The Villain. Jonathan Pryce plays Elliott Carver, a newspaper and
media tycoon intent on whipping up a war between Britain and China. The
reason is to facilitate the accession to power of his ally, a renegade
Chinese general who has promised to give his organisation exclusive
broadcasting rights in China. Bond villains have always provided scope
for some splendidly over-the-top displays of acting, going back to
Lotte Lenya's Rosa Klebb and Gert Frobe's Goldfinger. Although Pryce's
Carver is more restrained than some, it falls within this tradition. At
first sight the silver-haired bespectacled Carver seems mild-mannered
and soft spoken, but soon reveals the raving megalomania which is the
hallmark of the Bond villain. Particularly noteworthy is the speech
where Carver states his ambitions as being 'power' and 'world
domination'. Although he puts a liberal, metaphorical interpretation on
these two concepts, the audience is left in no doubt that he means what
he says quite literally. There is also a good performance from Gotz
Otto as Carver's brutal German henchman, Stamper.

2. The Girl. Admittedly, Teri Hatcher is rather wasted as the secondary
Bond girl Paris Carver, Elliott's wife and a former girlfriend of Bond.
Michelle Yeoh, however, is superb as the main female lead, the Chinese
secret agent Wai Lin. (That's how it's spelled, although the
pronunciation used in the film suggests that the name should actually
be transliterated as Wei Lin). Apart from Michelle's striking looks,
she is also an accomplished martial arts performer, and her skills are
put to good use in this film. (Part of a trend of giving Bond girls a
more active role, in contrast to the earlier films in the series where
they were required to do little other than look decorative.) 3. The
Chase Sequence. The main one, in which Bond and Wai Lin escape on a
motorbike through the streets of Hanoi from the villains in a
helicopter, is excellent. 4. The Opening Sequence. As usual, this has
little to do with the main plot line. It does, however, fit in with a
growing tendency in the Bond films, that of mocking or undermining the
militaristic, macho values which the series was once accused of
promoting. This film introduces a new comic character, the gung-ho,
blustering Admiral Roebuck, a sort of naval equivalent of Colonel
Blimp, who clashes with the more liberal 'M', the female chief of the
British Secret Service. (I was interested to learn that the actors who
play them, Geoffrey Palmer and Judi Dench, are husband and wife in real
life). In the opening sequence, Bond narrowly prevents Roebuck's
blundering attempt to bomb a gathering of international terrorists from
setting off a nuclear explosion. The more active roles for female
characters are also part of the trend towards a politically correct
Bond, as is, perhaps, his remark that smoking is a 'filthy habit'. (The
earlier films were often criticised for glamorising the habit by making
Bond himself a smoker). 

As with all the Bond films, one can probably pull holes in the plot of
'Tomorrow Never Dies'. (The scene where Carver sinks a British warship
by cutting a hole in the side with what looks like a giant chainsaw
struck me as particularly implausible. What's wrong with a torpedo?)
Nevertheless, the Bond films are not meant to be works of social
realism and unlike, say, the novels of John Le Carre, have never
purported to give an accurate picture of life in the British Secret
Service. 'Tomorrow Never Dies' is a good example of what the Bond films
have always been- superior escapist entertainment. 7/10

<|_=00=_|>
'Tomorrow Never Dies' is a superb Bond film, and if you're not looking
for anything else, it provides some great entertainment.

The story: Bond (Pierce Brosnan) has the save the world from a
megalomaniac again, but this time, the threat is Elliot Carver
(Jonathan Pryce, clearly having the time of his life), a worldwide
media baron who wants to start a war in order to get higher ratings.
All the Bond regulars are here: Q (Desmond Llewelyn), who gives Bond a
new BMW complete with rocket launchers, machine guns, and a remote
control (there's a fun chase sequence in a high-rise garage where Bond
sits in the backseat and drives the car by remote); M (Judi Dench),
still frosty and unamused with some of Bond's... questionable tactics;
and Miss Moneypenny, who gets one of the best lines in the film.

The Bond girl this time around is Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh), a Chinese
agent who has also been sent to find out what Carver's up to. Lin and
Bond team up in the last part of the film, and their chemistry is
impeccable. Lin also gets to kick some butt, which is always fun to
see.

Overall, if you're looking for some good IL' action and adventure, you
can't go wrong with James Bond. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Q demonstrated how to drive the BMW by remote control by moving his
finger around a pad inside a special mobile phoneNone of Bond's cars
can compare for hi-tech gadgetry with the BMW 750 Sedan he drove on
this film mission 

"Tomorrow Never Dies" opens with H.M.S Devonshire on a routine patrol
from the Philippines to Hong Kong when it was overflown by two Chinese
MiGs, whose pilots claimed the ships had veered into Chinese
territorial waters While the captain and the pilots argued the point,
the Devonshire shuddered from stern to stern Something had holed her
below the waterline and she was sinking quickly 

Virtually undetectable by radar, the stealth ship (invisible to radar)
was Elliot Carver's secret weapon in his plan to cause international
conflicts

The schemes of Carver had brought Britain and China to the edge of war
And the British will think it's a Chinese aerial torpedo Bond needed
to find the wreck of H.M.S Devonshire and discover how and why it had
sunk However a problem remained: how to get to the wreck, and which
lay between the Chinese and the British fleets, undetected by the
Chinese radar? 

Carver's daring bid for communication supremacy involves nothing less
than achieving World War III and offering subscribers a ringside seat 

In his attempts to situate and stop Carver, Bond becomes implicated
with his former lover Paris  now Carver's wife  and collaborates with
resourceful Chinese agent Wai Lin 

In "Tomorrow Never Dies," Pierce Brosnan was seen more confident as
Bond The actors playing Bond's back-up  Judi Dench, Samantha Bond,
Joe Don Baker and Desmond Llewellyn  all reprise their "GoldenEye"
roles 

Former Miss Malaysia Michelle Yeoh was awarded the role of Wai Lin MI6
was not the only agency interested in Carver The Chinese government
sent one of its top security agents to uncover the secrets of his
organization After initial distrust, she and Bond form an almost
telepathic understanding A martial artist of considerable skills, she
preferred to work alone  until she begins to trust 007 

Carver's wife Paris was played by the great beauty, Teri Hatcher "I
always wondered how I'd feel if I ever saw you again," said Bond He
soon had his answer  a stinging slap in the face... He had broken
Paris' heart years before, and she had consoled herself by marrying a
jealous husband Yet she still carries an ex-flame for 007 Paris, like
Jill Masterson (Shirley Eaton) in "Goldfinger," has only few minutes
on-screen in the film

Jonathan Pryce plays the villain, 'the emperor of the air,' Elliot
Carver who was prepared to go to any length to increase the power of
his media empire 

Ricky Jay plays Henry Gupta the eccentric quietly spoken man to
Carver's plans He's the most dangerous of the magnate's followers 

Götz Otto plays Stamper, the loyal psychopath henchman who follows
Carver's orders murdering a group of shipwrecked British sailors 

Vincent Schiavelli plays the menacing Dr. Kaufman, a professional
hit-man, and a priest of pain 

The 18th Bond movie has it all: Too much action (including an exciting
chase through the streets of Saigon on a stylish BMW R1200); an
effective girl; and a super car
<|_=00=_|>
Elloit Carver (Jonathan Pryce) is a megalomaniac and selfish media
baron. Carver has the power to reach every person on the planet through
his Carver Media Group Network- except for the People's Republic of
Chinese who refuse his presence in their nation . The mogul is tied to
the disappearance of a British battleship in the South China Sea .
James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) heads to stop the media mogul's plan to
induce war between China and the UK in order to obtain exclusive global
media coverage and whose tentacles reach around the world . Carver,
whose spouse (Teri Hatcher) was a former flame of 007 , is supported by
a computer genius (Ricky Jay) and a nasty hunk man (Gotz Otto) . Along
the way Bond join forces with a Chinese secret agent (Michelle Yeoh) ,
expert on martial arts . In addition , there appears the usuals , such
as M (Judi Dench), Q (Desmond Llewelin) , Lois Maxwell, ¨MoneyPenny¨
(Samantha Bond) , Minister of Defense (Julian Fellowes) and Jake Wade
(Joe Don Baker) . But not counting the regular characters of Bond, Q, M
and Moneypenny, this is the first Bond movie to contain absolutely no
Ian Fleming references . 

Likable Pierce Brosnan in an amazing adventure set on wonderful
outdoors located mostly on Vietnam , being actually shot in Thailand .
The original title of the film was "Tomorrow Never Lies", which makes
sense when you consider media mogul Elliot Carver was creating the next
day's headlines in advance, then causing those events to happen , but a
typo on an early script draft was adopted by the producers, and
¨Tomorrow never dies¨ was used instead . This is a Bond's good outing
in which faces dangerous adventures around the globe . Brosnan's outing
with overwhelming action and spectacular scenarios , the film teams
Bond with Michelle Yeoh as endearing ally in an effort to stop a
technological communication mogul . After his first introduction in
¨Golden eye¨ as tough and attractive James Bond of the Ian Fleming's
famous creation , Pierce Brosnan went on playing various 007 , as ¨Die
Another Day ¨ and this ¨Tomorrow never dies¨ . The picture starts with
an overblown opening and following other impressive action set pieces .
This solid , slick thriller with magic mix of action-packed , dazzling
stunts, gadgetry, and romance provided by sexy company as Teri Hatcher
and Michelle Yeoh . Pierce Brosnan as James Bond is fine , he does
remarkably well , he earns in irony, humor ,suavity and sympathy,
however also has coldness ,cunning , intelligence and toughness . Here
Bond is an efficient , relentless agent trying to chase obstinately the
criminals , traveling around the world as always , as this
globe-trotting story is set in Pucket, Bangkok, Thailand (Saigon,
Vietnam) , Hamburg , London and many other places . Because the second
half of the film is set in Vietnam, the production negotiated for some
time for permission to film there ; although it appeared close, the
Vietnamese Ministry of Culture and Information eventually refused to
allow it , the production decided to use Thailand as Vietnam, with
Bangkok substituting for Saigon . Bond to achieve his aims , along the
way uses violent means even pulling off brutal killings against enemies
who wreak all sorts of havoc . As always Bond will use fantastic
gadgets and spectacular cars (here 15 BMW 750's were destroyed in the
making of the film) provided by ¨Q¨ (Desmond Llewelyn) . The stealth
ship is not a fictional invention , Lockheed secretly constructed and
demonstrated one in the early 1980s, but the US Navy finally decided
they didn't want any ; the prototype, called the Sea Shadow, was 160
feet long . The picture contains comic-strip adventure , sensational
pursuits , silly set pieces , great stunts , tongue-in check humor,
automovile chase, frantic unstopped action , a breathtaking tour around
the world , amazing gimmicks and stimulating images like are the
happenings on the spectacular pursuits on the motorcycle and helicopter
. As is like a roller-coaster , as is fast-paced , light , excitement,
funny and entertaining ; it's a winner for oo7 fans and non-fans alike
. The chase and suspense formula wears strong in this entry .

The film made particularly heavy use of gadgetry because some fans
thought there was too little of it in GoldenEye . Enjoyable title song
by Sheryl Crow and stirring musical score fitting to action by David
Arnold , following the John Barry's classic style . Riveting and fancy
main titles , furthermore eye-popping production design by Allan
Cameron . It's brimming with colorful and fascinating cinematography by
cameraman Robert Elswit . The motion picture produced by habitual
producers, Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson and dedicated to the
memory of long-time Bond-film producer Albert R. Broccoli ; being
professionally made by Robert Spottiswoode who filmed other successes
such as ¨the 6th day¨, ¨Turner and Hooch¨, ¨Air America¨ , Shoot to
kill¨and Under fire¨ . Robert keeps this moving at an incredibly fast
pace and this story about every's favorite super-spy facing off
dangerous mogul . The film will appeal to James Bond series's buffs but
good for fans only ; because this one goes on far too long and has
provoked so much debate among 007 followers . Rating : 6'5 , well worth
watching .
<|_=00=_|>
For some reason, Bond loyalists and sometimes Bond fans didn't rate
this installment. However, I believe it was one of the best Bond's ever
made.

The villain (Pryce) was terrific, even though the nature of his
character was a bit overdone. The women were both stunning and were not
denied some character development of their own (as is the case in many
other Bonds).

The gadgets delivered by Q and the gadgets in Lin's secret office in
China were extremely impressive - including that magnificent 7-series
BMW.

But probably the stand out aspect of this Bond, above all others, were
the terrific comedy and double entendre. After all, this was the film
that gave rise to the now often used "cunning linguist." But there were
many others that were absolutely hilarious - including "I'm brushing up
on a little Danish", "I've always been a fan of Chinese technology" and
Bond returning his car to Avis.

That said, the film did not get bogged down in the comedy. Furthermore,
it didn't get bogged down in boring, drawn-out plot divergences that
other Bonds (especially the older ones) tend to do. It was thrilling
and engaging from start to finish and avoid the boring periods that
crop up in other bond films. Brosnan is terrific and this was certainly
his best effort.

I regard this is one of the best Bond's of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
A far cry from Goldeneye, but It doesn't necessarily deserve all the
hate it receives either. Tomorrow Never Dies is a fast paced affair,
and an easily agreeable time-waster, but it's not the follow-up
Goldeneye deserved, either. It's much too daft for the heavy plot that
it has. The main reason this movie is entertaining is the spectacular
stunts. It has some great action set pieces, which managed to make the
time pass nicely. Michelle Yeoh makes for a refreshingly unique Bond
Girl, due to her actual Martial Arts background. I dug the chemistry
with her & Brosnan. Speaking of Brosnan He is very good as Bond. He
has charisma and wit to spare. He's not quite as good as Timothy
Dalton, but he is excellent nonetheless. Johnathan Pryce is decent as
the villain. He is fitfully menacing and did the job overall. Teri
Hatcher's character is a bit disposable, but she was good in her role.
Desmond Llewelyn & Judi Dench are as classy as ever

Final Thoughts: Instantly forgettable stuff, but it manages to be an
effective time-waster. It's not a great Bond film, but it is an OK
action film. I didn't mind it at all. 

5.6/10
<|_=00=_|>
OK, this is what i call an action movie, a great one, it has everything
you need to make your adrenaline flow. And of course it also does it
for a Bond movie, it has funny lines, clichés, gadgets, and it deliver
us a movie that is pure action and danger without losing the sense of
humour (like all Bond movies).

James Bond had always fought to the powerful, but this is the first
time, i think, that he deals to a press magnate like Elliot Carver, who
cares nothing about an informed world as he says, but to get all the
power and money that he can. In WW2, the men who took advantage of the
war were those who manufactured weapons, in the 90's, the medias gain
as much money as them, so Elliot decides to begin a war to have the
complete coverage of the deed, so our fellow agent 007 must stoop this
crazy guy from beginning a war just for economic reasons.... So, we can
say the plot is quite good and original as well, nobody can say no.

And this movie was a great follow up to the blockbuster mega hit that
was Goldeneye, Pierce Brosnan shining as the British agent, as he
always did in his 007 period. Michelle Yeoh was great too, and she
portrayed perfectly good the woman of the 90's: Independent, fighting
side by side with men, even defeating them, smart, pretty, well the
90's woman......

The music by Sheryl Crow is lovely and sweet, and fits great into the
atmosphere of the movie, something on what the producers of the Bond
movies always lay stress on. A good Bond movie needs a good song, and a
good car too, ja.

"The difference between craze and greatness is measured only by
success" "There's no news, like bad news" This is an example of
Carver's "philosophy" of life, funny thing to hear, you realize he is a
crazy that believes what he says....

So, if you are an action lover this movie is for you, and if you are a
Bond lover this movie will like you too.
<|_=00=_|>

"Tomorrow Never Dies" is the 18th James Bond film, with Pierce Brosnan back
as 007. This is a very good follow-up to Brosnan's first Bond movie
"Goldeneye". "Tomorrow Never Dies" had the unfortunate task of opening on
the exact same day as "Titanic" (December 19, 1997). Even though "Titanic"
went on to break box office records, "Tomorrow Never Dies" was not left in
the dust. It surpassed "Goldeneye" domestically with a box office gross of
$125 million ("Goldeneye" grossed $106 million). There are two major assets
that make "Tomorrow Never Dies" really work, a great Bond villain and a
great Bond woman. Jonathan Pryce is a major standout as Elliot Carver, the
megalomaniacal media magnate Bond faces off against.  The other standout:
Michelle Yeoh as Wai Lin, Bond's female sidekick who makes a fine companion
for Bond. Brosnan is fine as 007 as he was in "Goldeneye", and also
returning for the second time are Joe Don Baker as CIA agent Jack Wade, Judi
Dench as "M", Samantha Bond as "Miss Moneypenny", and Desmond Llewelyn as
"Q". As for the other familiar face in the cast, Teri Hatcher from TV's
"Lois & Clark" is just adequate as Elliot Carver's wife Paris.  "Tomorrow
Never Dies" is just as good as "Goldeneye"

***1/2 (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
This film isn't quite as good as "Goldeneye", but it still another fun
addition to the series.

Pierce Brosnan once again shines as James Bond, and Wai Lin, played by
Michelle Yeoh, is quite possibly the toughest Bond girl ever. She does
a lot of karate and steals the show as much as Brosnan.

Elliot Carver, played by Jonathan Pryce, is a pretty decent villain. He
is nowhere near as intimidating as some of the best Bond villains, but
he is certainly passable. His goals were a little more realistic than
most Bond villains. His henchmen is just another Red Grant clone.

The story, while not the deepest, has a lot of intriguing elements with
Carver writing disasters in his newspaper and making them happen. The
media angles makes a lot of sense these days. The locations work,
especially Thailand.

This film is up there with "Moonraker" as one of the most relentlessly
action-packed entries in the series. We get a spectacular opening
sequence, a chase in a parking garage with Bond using his
remote-control BMW, a wicked motorcycle chase, and so much more.

This is a very solid if slightly by-the-numbers entry in the series.
There is rarely a dull moment, and there is enough action for several
movies. Another fun Bond film.

RATING: B
<|_=00=_|>
Tomorrow Never Dies is almost everything we expect from a James Bond
film. It has little more than that, but that's fine. It's certainly a
fun and well-made film and definitely worth two hours of your life. The
movie contains the standard Bond film formula. A megalomaniac wants to
take over the world, Bond is sent to stop him, he seduces some women
and kills some men on the way, causes thousands of dollars worth of
damage, confronts the villain and foils his plot (and life), and gets
the girl. The film doesn't really do anything new with the formula, but
it executes it well. Pierce Brosnan goes on his second outing as Bond,
and he's quickly become comfortable with the role, becoming one of the
best Bonds ever. He has the suaveness and toughness of Sean Connery,
the comedic timing and charm of Roger Moore, the coldness and brutality
of Timothy Dalton, and he adds his own touch of gentleness and humanity
to the role. He's very entertaining and even actually kind of
sympathetic, and when he's on screen, he simply is James Bond. He's
able to take on any challenge and survive any action sequence. As an
action piece, Tomorrow Never Dies is fantastic. There are some
fantastic and inventive action sequences. The stuntwork is wonderful,
and the usual great Bond car chases are present. A scene that sticks
out strongly is a chase in a multiple-story garage, with Bond driving
his car via remote control in the back seat, as henchmen fire their
pistols and bazookas at him, and he uses the car's dozens of hidden
gadgets against them, such as spiked balls to take out the tires of
other cars, and the hidden guns at the front of his own car. The film
doesn't do much new with the Bond formula, but it does it well. It has
an original idea for a villain, him being a media mogul, but not much
is done with this concept, although actor Jonathan Pryce revels in
being a megalomaniac. Tomorrow Never Dies is a fun movie, offering
little new, but as long as it's fun, that's OK, isn't it?
