

If Becky Sharp, Georgian England's conniving, calculating social
climber, had a contemporary equivalent, it surely would be Tracy Flick,
the deliciously ambitious high school student played delightfully by
Reese Witherspoon in the acerbic comedy, "Election" (1999).

Director Mira Nair has said what made Witherspoon the ideal Becky Sharp
was the actress' "American energy and sassiness." Fair enough. But why
did Nair then tame that energy and sass? We see none of it in
Witherspoon's Becky. This isn't the feisty actress who proved she could
play edgy and biting in "Election" and "Freeway" (1996). This is Elle
Woods as Becky, thanks to Nair's misguided decision to turn Becky into
an appealing feminist.

I'm not averse to directors stamping their distinct styles on literary
works, mixing film styles or modernizing old works. But you don't
change the work's crucial essence. You don't transform Goneril and
Regan into caring daughters, for instance.

That's where Nair's take on William Makepeace Thackeray fails
miserably.

She and Oscar-winning screenwriter Julian Fellowes - the two other
credited writers, Matthew Faulk and Mark Skeet, reportedly disowned the
film alleging the shooting script bore no resemblance to their work -
have stripped Becky of all her viciousness and cunning. They've
declawed her in a ridiculous attempt to make her likable.

In interviews, Nair and Witherspoon insist they didn't want to make a
typical "bonnet" film. Fine. But you also shouldn't make a film that
doesn't know what it wants to be and lacks emotional resonance. And
that's what Nair's film is.

It sparkles for about a half-hour or so as we see a young Becky, played
pluckily by Angelica Mandy; then, the older Becky (Witherspoon) leaving
school with her friend, Amelia (Romola Garai), and meeting, among
others, Dobbin (Rhys Ifans) and George Osborne (Jonathan Rhys-Meyers).
Later, Becky becomes Sir Pitt Crawley's (Bob Hoskins) governess and
meets her future husband Rawdon (James Purefoy) and Matilda (Eileen
Atkins).

But once Becky heads to London, the film screeches to a halt. With no
one seemingly knowing what the emotional tone should be and the story's
harshness and satiric edge excised, the film grinds at a snail's pace,
the actors slowly sapping all the energy out of it. A scene between
Becky and George at the piano should be tart, their words should sting.
Instead, the two actors labor with the dialogue and make the moment as
sharp as a dull razor.

Adapting Thackeray's massive novel into a feature film was never going
to be easy. But Nair gets more wrong than right. With the exception of
the children, none of the characters age. Gabriel Byrne looks the same
at the end of the film as he did in the beginning, which takes place 40
years earlier. Witherspoon, Garai, Hoskins, Ifans, Purefoy and
Rhys-Meyers also show no hint of aging. And in an attempt to condense
the story, important characters - Amelia and Dobbin, for instance -
disappear for long periods and show up solely to wrap up subplots.

The highlights are Declan Quinn's striking cinematography, performances
by Hoskins and Atkins, the only two who seem to be having any fun, and
a superbly restrained Ifans, playing convincingly against type.

Much has been made about the Indian influence in Nair's story. There's
nothing wrong with them being in the film. Thackeray was born in
Calcutta and the colony's impact was evinced in Georgian English
society. Not only do Nair's Indian touches make the film seem more
vibrant, but the peacocks, parrots and Indian musicians, costumes and
servants also make provocative statements about the exploitation of
India and how the British Empire amassed its wealth. However, no matter
how exotic it seems, Becky's dance just doesn't work and seems like
nothing more than an imprudent attempt to add a foreign film style into
this period piece.

Witherspoon, whose English accent falters occasionally, works
commendably, but ultimately remains unconvincing through no fault of
her own, really. You don't take someone who quips, "Revenge may be
wicked, but it's perfectly natural," and turn her into a sweet, amiable
victim. Witherspoon isn't even remotely as devious as Nair would want
us to believe. 

It's unlikely another actress, say Kate Winslet or Kate Beckinsale,
would have fared any better for she'd have worked with the same script
and Nair's foolhardy direction, which includes inexplicably asking
Geraldine McEwan to not so much speak her lines as to squeal them
high-pitched, making the veteran actress' Lady Southdown needlessly
irritating.

This film remains so emotionally lackadaisical that when Becky finally
breaks down before Rawdon, it seems more like a "For Your
Oscar-Consideration" moment for Witherspoon than anything else. By
softening Becky, making her more alluring than calculating, Nair
destroyed the story's spirit. She and Fellowes also tacked on a
ludicrous ending.

As botched film adaptations of literary works go, "Vanity Fair" isn't
nearly as execrable as Roland Joff√©'s "The Scarlet Letter" (1995). But
I'm confounded as to how the skilled storyteller of "Salaam Bombay!"
(1988) and "Monsoon Wedding" (2001) could have gone so horridly wrong.

<|_=00=_|>

This is an entertaining movie that goes over two hours, but I really
don't understand why it was made. Sprawling stories spanning several
decades with several subplots involving dozens of characters are
totally defensible on the printed page, where we can always go back and
remind ourselves which character is which and how this character is
related to that one. But this type of thing makes no sense whatsoever
in a film. Unless a viewer has a phenomenal memory, such a story on
film invariably leads to confusion and to my asking myself, "now wait a
minute, whose brother is this, and whose son?"

So that is one of the principal problems with this film.

There are several other problems as well. Reese Witherspoon is badly
miscast. She simply lacks Becky Sharp's bite. In fact, the whole film
lacks Thackeray's bite. Reese does a good job with the British accent,
but it just doesn't work. She is just too American for the role.
Weren't there any British actresses available, or were the producers
just relying on Reese's star power? Reese is just too nice to play
Becky.

It has often been said that Becky Sharp was the model for Scarlett
O'Hara in "Gone With the Wind," although Margaret Mitchell denied this.
Even so, I kept visualizing Vivien Leigh in this role and imagining how
perfect she would have been. I think Mira Nair was thinking of GWTW as
well, because there are several scenes in the film that are obvious
homages to it. First there are the battle scenes during the Battle of
Waterloo, followed by a panoramic view of the carnage following the
battle, complete with corpses strewn all over the battlefield. This was
an obvious homage to the crane shot over Atlanta in GWTW. The final
fight between Becky and her husband reminded me of the final fight
between Scarlett and Rhett in GWTW. I half expected the husband to say
"Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn."

Another flaw involves the Indian director Nair's inability to resist
bringing in some Bollywood type scenes, particularly one involving
Becky leading an Indian type dance, with Indian music, before the king,
no less, and to thunderous applause.

And yet another thing: this film spans at least twenty, maybe
twenty-five or thirty, years in Becky's life after she graduates from
finishing school--I am not counting the one scene of her as a
child--yet the character never ages. Neither do any of the other
characters. Maybe the makeup staff went on strike?

But most of these problems won't even be noted by someone who hasn't
read the book, so if you haven't, go ahead and see it; you'll probably
be entertained. And if you are someone like me who loves the book, you
may not be able to resist seeing it anyway. But Thackeray was never so
soft.

<|_=00=_|>
I was very disappointed with this adaptation of Thackeray's
masterpiece. When this movie first came out I was very excited to see
it and read the book in preparation. Now I wish I had just left it at
the novel. Mira Nair's vision of Becky Sharp and the hypocrisy of
Regency Britain is so far off the mark, she should be ashamed of
herself for even using the title 'Vanity Fair.' All of Becky's
backstabbing guiles have been down-graded to a form of pluckiness that
completely fails to hit any mark of truth or irony... the two pillars
of the original work. It saddens me to know that a generation of young
people will watch this film and assume that Nair's vision of the story
is a correct one. It also upsets me that several of the most
entertaining scenes in the novel were altered or completely left out
for the sake of forcing us to endure Reese Witherspoon's mediocre lip
syncing in at least three separate musical numbers. Sure, in the novel,
Becky could sing... but she was also a heartless sociopath who would do
anything to get ahead. Out of the two personality traits, I believe
Thackeray would rather us know the latter instead of the former.
'Vanity Fair,' the novel, is a sharp and often hilarious social
commentary. 'Vanity Fair,' the 2004 movie, is a dull and often
intellectually insulting piece of weepie dreck. Trust me, folks, spend
your money on the book, or at least check out the far superior BBC
version, which is twice as long but never quite as plodding as this
mock-up of an adaptation.
<|_=00=_|>
"Vanity Fair" (2004) is an acceptable but abbreviated version of the
classic Thackery Victorian period novel which tells of Becky Sharp
(Witherspoon), who uses artifice and charm to climb from lowly
governess to aristocrat, always able to find a suitable family of
peerage or property to use as a rung in her ladder to the top in spite
of the tribulations of the time. At just over two hours, this film
cannot deal in depth with the many characters in the story and has to
content itself with hitting the high points which make for a very
condensed telling suited to those who only wish the flavor of the
story. Those with a particular interest in Victorian pulp fiction or
more expansive dramas should turn to the BBC's 1998 six hour miniseries
which offers greater character depth, a presentation much more true to
the period, and a very much better cast. (B-)
<|_=00=_|>
Believe it or not, I am under the age of 20 and have read this novel
purely out of interest and found it to be an amazing piece of work.
Thackeray's unique writing style in "Vanity Fair" is captivating. I saw
the movie only a week after finishing the book, with the details fresh
in my mind, to be immensely displeased. I have read a number of
excellent comments that go into detail of the faults of the movie, so I
plan to keep this brief for those wanting a shorter critique.

At least half of the characters were misrepresented. I believe the only
two relatively-accurate main characters were Jos Sedley and Rawdon
Crawley. Becky was completely dismantled into something with scarcely a
semblance of what she is portrayed as in the book. The character Dobbin
was undefined; George Osborne was snobbish instead of cocky; his rigid
father suddenly became sympathetic (way too early and much too far);
not to mention troves of other discrepancies. I understand the goal may
have been to come up with a more abridged version, but there were
changes made that had nothing to do with shortening the screenplay.
Besides, there were a number of musical pieces that could have been cut
in order to use the time more beneficially by preserving some of the
integrity of the film. 

Thackeray would have been appalled at this hack job.

Were it not for my love for time period films, and the possibility of
enjoying this movie as something very separate from the book, I would
not care to see it again. At least the filming was impressive, though
that hardly makes up for the rest. The theatrical trailer is the best
part of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
William Thackerey's "Vanity Fair" has been adapted for the screen and
television in numerous occasions. It is almost an impossible task to
get a coherent take on a narrative that spans a lot of years and in
which a lot happens.

This adaptation of the book by Mira Nair with the adaptation by Julian
Fellowes, is sumptuously photographed by Declan Quinn, who captures the
Regency period in the England at the beginning of the XIX century. Ms.
Nair's touch is evident in the way the costumes have an Indian flair as
they were brilliantly executed by designer Beatrix Aruna Pasztor. Maria
Djurkovic's wonderful production design is also an asset.

If anything, this reincarnation of the Thackerey's novel is a joy for
the eyes. The rich period in which the action takes place comes alive
in the screen as a feast of colors, which in a way, compensate for the
failings on the story and in the way Ms. Nair conceived the way she
wanted to tell this tale about an ambitious young woman who is the
epitome of social climbing. As a character puts in the film, Becky
Sharp would be a perfect mountaineer.

Part of what is wrong with the film is Reese Witherspoon in the central
role. Not that her interpretation is wrong, it's that she doesn't
project the character of Becky Sharp with an intensity that another
actress might have brought to the role. In part, this might not have
been Ms. Witherspoon's fault, but the director's, in the way she guided
the key performance.

The other failure of the film lies in the last scenes in which one
finds Becky in Baden-Baden. Becky, Amelia, and Dobbins, haven't aged
one iota. For the sake of realism, a bit of old age makeup should have
been applied to these actors, or else, one might believe in the
curative waters of that German spa. If it was true, we should be taking
the next flight to Germany. After all, if that were the case, it would
be the end of plastic surgery as we know it!

Some of the best actors of the English stage and screen are seen in
various roles. Bob Hoskins, Eileen Atkins, Jim Broadbent, Gabriel
Byrne, Barbara Leigh-Hunt, Rhys Ifan, Romola Garai, Jonathan
Rhys-Meyer, James Purefoy, just to name a few, do an excellent job in
the portrayal of their characters.

This "Vanity Fair", although flawed, is not a total failure. Mira Nair
shows an amazing talent for being in command of such a large project.
<|_=00=_|>
Vanity Fair is a beautiful mess. It combines the beauty of elegant
costumes, sets and people with the disaster that is Mira Nair's
adaptation of William Makepeace Thackery's novel. Not only is the
adaptation bad but also so is what Nair has done with it. If you read
the book, the movie will break your heart. It has completely ripped to
shreds the pages of the classic story.

If you haven't read the book and intend to waste your money on the
film, I would recommend that first you read a couple of plot summaries
of the novel. Otherwise, you may be very lost through no fault of your
own but because there is no defining plot in the film. There are no
central conflicts presented and it's not until about two thirds of the
way through that you have at least an idea of what is trying to be done
here. Even then, it is unclear. Reese Witherspoon plays Becky Sharp, a
social climber. Vanity Fair is supposed to be her story but instead, it
is crowded by a confusing and unnecessary cast of supporting
characters. I suppose Vanity Fair is a story about love but also about
how the social class system can create a barrier between people. If
this was the intended idea the supporting cast would be needed but
Vanity Fair is supposed to be about Becky Sharp and the movie is far
too much of an ensemble piece for that to be the case.

Mira Nair's direction is too present. She throws in too much of herself
with the scenes about India and actually in India. Where the hell is
the point? There just seem to be times when Nair thought it was okay to
throw in another shot of an elephant's ass or belly dancers or India
food.

Speaking of unwanted, Reese's second child was not credited in the
closing credits but is in every scene Reese is. Witherspoon and the
crew seemed to think they could hide the fact that she was pregnant by
putting her in big clothes but that didn't work. She still looks
pregnant and it ruins the effect the clothes should have had. It also
puts the movie out of sequence. In one scene Reese is very large and in
the next you can only see her belly if you look for it.

Vanity Fair could have been brilliant. The material is there, Reese
bring to the table the range that we have come to expect from her and a
performance that could have taken her places if it had been used
better. But the fact remains that there are too many moments where ends
just don't meet and the audience is confused to the point where the
film can't rely on its pretty scenery to distract from its larger
flaws. *1/2 out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
Elegant costumes, beautiful scenery, and piano playing in excess all 
add to the sights and sounds of Mira Nair's film 'Vanity Fair.' Her 
2004 version is one of over ten tries to put William Makepeace 
Thackeray's novel onto the big screen. Most attempts failed miserably, 
lacking the magic of today's movies and failing to grasp the themes of 
the novel. Nair's version, with its visual and audible pleasures, has 
the potential to become one of the few successful attempts.

With humble beginnings as a poor child with a starving artist as her 
father, Becky (Reese Witherspoon) was determined to overcome 
her circumstance. She managed to work her way into a governess position 
in a down-on-his-luck aristocrat. New opportunities arise, and she 
hastily abandons her post to become the companion to a wealthy woman 
known only as Miss Crawley (Eileen Atkins). Much to Miss Crawley's 
displeasure, Becky wastes no time in her quest to climb the social 
ladder and marries into the family. Becky's new husband, Crawley's 
nephew, is soon sent off to war. Returning after the battle of 
Waterloo, their marriage is rocky due to his gambling debts and her 
never-ending quest to raise her social status. Meeting a man who 
collected her late father's art, she uses his money and his influence 
to continue her rise in the social hierarchy, causing more distress to 
their marriage.

Nair attempted to bring something new to the film, using her fantastic 
creative talents in the costuming and scenery. Her musical choices 
weren't overwhelming and accented the film rather than hiding behind 
its beautiful visual aspects. She tried to cover the expanse of the 
novel, but ending up making a summary of the story and leaving the 
characters bland and undeveloped. Nair intentionally portrays Becky as 
a victim of the social system, showing her as merely taking advantage 
of circumstantial events. This contradicts harshly with Thackeray's 
Becky, who is manipulative and cunning, turning circumstantial events 
into anything that will benefit her rise up the social ladder. 

This movie is beautifully made and had the potential to become 
something great, but Nair's overly eager attempt leaves it as nothing 
more than another mediocre film. Had she paid as much attention to the 
plot and the characters as she did to the audio and visual aspects, 
this would definitely be the best film of the year. But she didn't, so 
don't waste your seven dollars to see it in the theater. Wait for the 
video, or better yet, wait for that one Friday night when you are home 
alone and it comes on cable.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the somewhat unfortunate job of accompanying two teenage girls to
my viewing of Vanity Fair. As any cinema attendee will know, there is
nothing more irritating then two talkative teens, with the attention
span of goldfish, chatting throughout the entire film. All their
interest was well gone by the time Gabriel Byrne strutted onto the
screen, and although it pains me to admit it, my interest had slowly
subsided with theirs.

Although beautiful shots, skillful performances and magnificently
designed sets came bountiful, there was still one vast absence that was
so dearly missed. This was the charm, the charisma and the fascination
that connects the audience with the characters. The scenes didn't fuse
well and felt shabbily thrown together. Acknowledged events came as
surprises and characters lost their appeal and distinctiveness. Becky
Sharp, played by Reese Witherspoon, became aggravating and tedious, and
any sympathy, understanding or patience for that matter, was lost to a
plot so drawn and witless, it made 'Charlie's angels' seem thought
provoking.

The charm and the magic of the William Makepeace Thackeray novel were
forgotten in this drawn and soulless remake of a classic. Worth the
watch for the costumes and set alone, but expect nothing more.
<|_=00=_|>

'Vanity Fair' is the perfect title for this story, showing us a world
of cold characters with impersonal motives; a world where marriage is
just another move in a chess game where the opponent is poverty and,
perhaps more importantly, unpopularity. At the center of this movie is
Becky Sharp (Reese Witherspoon), a beautiful blonde from a terribly
poor family (her father was a talented but poor artist). We meet her
first when she is a young girl, and we see that she is already stubborn
and manipulative, when she demands ten guineas for a portrait of her
mother that is being sold to a wealthy aristocrat (Gabriel Byrne) for
four. He agrees, probably not because he thinks it's worth it, but
because he admires the fire and spirit in the young girl. He'll come
into play later.

We see her next after completing finishing school and being sent off to
be a governess for Sir Pitt Crawley (Bob Hoskins), a scruffy old man
who's just barely getting by, with a dusty mansion and rude servants.
She leaves for Pitt with her friend Amelia (Romola Garai), who is
engaged to an officer George Osborne (Jonathan Rhys-Meyers). Amelia's
engagement does not stop her from talking to Becky about the benefits
of marrying a wealthy man, and it is here that we first see the mindset
of most of the women in the film. Since they don't have many promising
career prospects (those were for the men) they want to seduce a rich
man to gain wealth, and popularity, and happiness too, I guess.

And Becky is great at playing the game. When she stays with Amelia's
family in London before going to the Crawleys, she meets Amelia's
awkward (and heavy) brother (Tony Maudsley), a wealthy man from India,
and starts a seduction that is in a way kind of obvious, but she knows
that the insecure Joseph couldn't possibly see through it. And he
doesn't, he wants to marry her, and she wants that, but it's George who
talks him out of it.

So, Becky is finished with her detour and moves to the Crawley's, where
she teaches his kids perfect French and even cleans up the mansion when
his wealthy sister Matilde (Eileen Atkins) arrives. Matilde is an
undeniable snob who claims to have a romantic heart, but with mean
put-downs ready for everyone in the house. She takes a liking to Becky
for her own cleverness and invites her to live with her and her nephew
Rawdon Crawley (James Purefoy) in London. Becky accepts, of course,
it's another step up.

So, she is back in London and reunites with Amelia, George, and
George's soldier friend William Dobbin (Rhys Ifans). She also
recognizes Matilde's neighbor, Lord Steyne, the man who bought her
mother's portrait all those years ago. She's back in the game, but she
falls prey to her heart and elopes with Rawdon, angering Matilde enough
to cut Rawdon out of her will (she loves romantic stories, she says,
but not in real life!).

Becky hasn't been completely consumed by her love, though. She still
has that cunning agenda of her own, which includes getting pregnant in
hopes of gaining sympathy from Matilde, and attending all the major
parties, shows and banquets in London despite her lower class.

But Rawdon is a gambler and their wealth and public image starts to
drop significantly. This is when we see the extent of Becky's agenda,
when she accepts Steyne as her mentor, despite his A) being a horrible
man and B) clearly wanting Becky for his bedroom, not his student. But
Steyne is seductive in his own right, and buys Becky the most expensive
and beautiful jewelry, shows her to great parties and even casts her as
the lead in a dance show he directed. Their relationship is one of the
most intriguing points of the film, kind of similar to that of Fast
Eddie Felson and Bert Gordon, and Laura Hunt and Waldo Lydecker.

Despite most of its characters being cunning and sinister, 'Vanity
Fair' is a distinctly moral movie. Pitt Crawley Jr. (Douglas Hodge) is
awkward and kind of dull, but his honesty and kindness gives him a
stable, happy life, and Joseph's own earnestness pays off for him in
the end. But the most important is the story of William Dobbin's
undying love for Amelia, and how he's so gentlemanly about it. He
doesn't urge her into adultery, and when she mistakes a piano he's
bought for her for a present from George he doesn't correct her. I
won't say how this story ends, but it'll most likely pull a tear from
the girls in the audience. Ifans' is a fantastic, heartbreaking
performance, the best of the movie.

Mira Nair's direction is awesome as well, what other director could
make a passable (even good) glittery, belly-dancing scene in a
Victorian drama. The Oscar for costume design will most certainly go to
this, and its set design makes the best competition to 'The Terminal'
so far this year.

As for acting Oscars, well, the way the movie switches from story to
story doesn't quite let us get to know most of the characters, but some
great performances can still be found here. Particularly Rhys Ifans,
whose performance is so quiet and strong, and Eileen Atkins, who is
perfect and hilarious, a true scene-stealer of her performance (and
maybe even Byrne, too).

And then there's Witherspoon, in one of her best performances as Becky
Sharp, the girl who, after learning her lesson by the end, is so
stubborn that she's at it again, 7.5/10.

