
I'm not going to put any spoilers in this review, but this is certainly
a movie with some great twists and turns. I haven't been this excited
about an upcoming release since The Sixth Sense or Memento. Hard to
believe this is the director's first feature (although it's possible he
cut his teeth in the commercial or music video world... I'm not sure) I
mean, certainly the film has a few problems, some of the moments didn't
ring exactly true to me and the music was a touch maudlin at times. But
when this film gets it right, it gets it really right. I was on the
edge of my seat from the second act on. It's the first film I've seen
in awhile that manages to balance a genuine emotionality with a strong
thriller aspect. Even Hayden Christensen, who I think we all had our
doubts about after Episodes I-III, puts in a memorable and affecting
performance. Definitely a film to see and a director I'll be keeping my
eye on.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not read reviews till after I saw this, and I am appalled. To
each his own, but I felt as if I had held my breath the whole movie.
And what a great ending to make you feel you so got your moneys worth.
And how enchanting was Jessica? Adorable and virtually perfect in the
role. Such a great ride. One of the best movies I have seen in the past
year.

Also, it seems many feel the length of the movie is too short, but who
says 2 hours is required? My stress level was so high throughout, and
everyone in the theater kept laughing at parts, not because it was
funny, but as a defense mechanism from the aforementioned stress.
Perfect acting? Maybe not, but it was certainly very good... in my
humble opinion. I can tell you to go see it, but no order needed to
enjoy it... that part comes easily, without force. Cheers.
<|_=00=_|>
"Awake" makes it crystal clear from the very beginning that 1 out of
300 people under anesthesia remains awake during surgeryan
unfathomable outcome. Hayden Christensen plays Clay Beresford, who
discovers that he is awake during heart transplant surgery. Having an
out of body experience he screams, "I am so f---ed!" However, Clay's
conscious state is the least of his ensuing tragedy. In director and
writer Joby Harold's unexpected "Awake", all is not at all what it
seems in a surprising tale of love and betrayal. Hayden Christensen and
Lena Olin are awesome and electrifying as they elevate "Awake".
Christensen proves that he was victim of the script writing in the
"Star Wars Episode" movies. He is electrifying in "Awake". Lena Olin,
who plays Clay's mother Lilith, is amazing as she reveals her
character's power. There is such grace and poignancy when her Lilith
confesses to her son, "I am so proud of the man, you have become"
Jessica Alba struggles here as Clay's wifehis Mother is unaware of
their relationship and marriage. As Sam, Alba plays a key pivotal role;
however, does not yet possess the dramatic gravitas or depth to carry
this off. Terrance Howard is strong as Clay's surgeon, but his
performance is flawed in its emotional ambiguity. For the most part
these failings do not distract, only because of the power of
Christensen and Olin. Even with some of the narrative shortcomings, I
really applaud "Awake" for its story of love everlasting and
acknowledging the greatness in others before it is too late.

Hayden Christensen is Clay Beresford. He is a young, brilliant and
wealthy New York philanthropist. As successful as Clay has become, he
still thinks he pales in comparison to his late business mogul father
Clay Sr. Clay's beautiful and protective mother Lilith relentlessly
pushes her son toward greatness. We discover in a Japanese business
conversation that Clay's heart is literally failinghe is a transplant
candidate. Much to his mother's chagrin instead of choosing her world
class heart surgeon friend Dr. Neyer (Arliss Howard), Clays has chosen
his dear friend Dr. Jack Harper (compassionate Terrance Howard) for the
critical procedure. Clay is loyal to Jack, who first saved him from a
heart attack. Unbeknownst to Lilith, Clay is in relationship with Sam
(Alba) and wishes to marry her which would inevitably enrage his
mother. The melodrama eventually arrives at its tipping point: Clay
goes under the knife to receive his new heart. Remaining awake under
anesthesia turns out to be the least of his worries. Here director and
writer Joby imaginatively crafts his story and our consciousness.

At less than an hour and 20 minutes, the narrative is riveting with
pathos and convolution, before arriving at its affirming conclusion.
Christensen is absolutely amazing. He displays a tangible humanity and
disguises a quiet force and power. Lena Olin is phenomenal. She is rock
solid as the "Awake" emotional anchor. Her dramatic turn is beguiling
and touching. With the graphic open heart surgery sequences, "Awake"
may not be for everyone. Keep in mind that "Awake" is more than just
its medical scenario. "Awake" is a moving story of love and greatness,
well worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the hardest reviews to write are the ones where you don't know
what to say. "Awake" is one of them. Let me just start with the basics.
Do I recommend it? Yes. Is it GOOD? That's what's hard to say about
this movie. Some parts of "Awake" are good, but some are merely okay.

Like many thrillers, telling much about the plot defeats the purpose of
seeing the movie. However, I will tell as much as I can.

The story goes like this. A rich young man named Clay (Hayden
Christensen) goes into the hospital for a heart transplant, and he
suffers from anesthetic awareness (meaning he can feel and hear
everything, but can't do anything about it). This is key because what
he hears changes everything.

That's about all I can say. "Awake" is an entertaining little thriller,
and Jody Harold certainly has potential as a writer/director. His
low-key handling of the film makes for an interesting, almost dreamy
approach, but I don't know if it works like it's supposed to, because I
have a feeling that it decreases the amount of suspense that the
material warrants. That said, the unusual tone makes up for this
deficiency.

The acting is solid too. Hayden Christensen became famous for his
portrayal of Anakin Skywalker in the second and third "Star Wars"
episodes. His first outing wasn't great, and called into question his
acting ability. However, his second round with the light saber was
terrific, and his performance here shows that "Episode 2" was more
likely to be an anomaly than the norm when it comes to his acting
ability. His co-star Jessica Alba isn't as good, but it proves that she
has more acting ability than many people give her credit for (her
reputation for being a tabloid sensation and the limited acting options
that result from it are probably to blame). Terrence Howard is solid,
but he isn't given much to work with. Same goes for Lena Olin.

Personally, I think it sucks when you like a movie but a lot of that
feeling disappears when someone points out something that causes that
to decrease. Such a thing happened with me and reading a review after
watching "Awake," but I won't say it because it's still a good movie to
see.

So, is "Awake" a good movie, or just a movie with enough good points to
warrant a viewing? I'd say it's somewhere in between, leaning more
towards good.
<|_=00=_|>
I keep thinking about this movie. There are all these "awards" movies
out there, and some of them (think JUNO) are really great, but others
are just pedigree films that we "should" see but we don't actually
really want to see or enjoy seeing. Then there is AWAKE. This is a
movie with a capital M. This is a movie where you just have a roller
coaster great time. Leave your inner critic at home and just sit back
and enjoy the riveting entertainment. It has amazing twists that even
the lame critics who said "they didn't like this film", sheepishly
admit was incredibly well done. I did notice that Roger Ebert didn't
follow the crowd and said it was great. Because it is. Awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a shame that this movie has gotten very little publicity and
probably will tank at the box office, because if you go into this with
an open mind and not trying to figure out every little twist and turn,
you,ve got yourself a very nice little thriller on your hands. The cast
ill admit are not all top notch in the acting field, but believe it or
not, work rather well. Terrence Howard is always good, Jessica Alba
actually turns in a very decent performance, and Hayden Christensen is
Annakin Skywalker as a billionaire. The movie is short and yet still
does a pretty good job developing the characters. There are several
twists and turns in this film; some easy to see coming, others
surprising, and some not necessary. But you should appreciate the
attempt whether or not you saw it coming. The story goes that Hayden is
a billionaire who buys and sells companies and also continues to assure
people work in the city. He has a heart attack at a young age so must
be placed on the list for a donor heart. His father died when he was
young and he now takes care of his mother who does not want to let him
go. He has been dating Alba for a year and still has not told his
mother for fear she will not approve. Skip some things to not give away
too much plot details and they find him a donor heart. Once in surgery,
they put him under for the transplant yet he can hear everything and
feel everything that is happening to him while the surgery is going on.
That is all I can give away. Please check this out if you can, it is a
good thriller and deserves a look. Im sure some will be disappointed,
but most should go into this and come out with a smile on their face.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a thoroughly watchable and exciting medical thriller about a
man who goes in for a heart transplant operation. The problem is, they
don't use enough gas to knock him out completely, and as a result he
remains fully alert during the operation but unable to talk or move. He
then learns that the people involved are planning to kill him. He has
an out-of-body-experience and learns more. You will need to listen
closely to the conversation to pick up clues. You will also be truly
surprised as the movie progresses. It reminded me a bit of an old
Alfred Hitchcock Presents episode where a drug dealer is involved in a
car accident and left completely paralyzed-but alive and in a similar
situation. I really recommend this film and was very glad I finally got
around to watching it in the theatre.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that the comments have been one extreme or the other - people
have either loved it or hated it. I'm right in the middle. I'm glad I
saw it, I don't want my money back. But I won't add it to my DVD
collection, either, though I admit, it's mostly the genre.

The major problem for me in this movie was the script. I kind of felt
like it was a waste for Lena Olin and Terrance Howard. Believe it or
not, Hayden underplaying it worked. I just wish he'd get more
consistent. He was brilliant in "Shattered Glass" and "Life As a
House," but flat in the Star Wars movies. This performance was in
between. While his voice can be somewhat monotone, his facial
expressions continue to knock me out.

Who surprised me was the much maligned Jessica Alba. I've never seen
her in anything, so I was expecting the worst. I was pleasantly
surprised. Though she could have upped the ante a little bit at the
end, she did infinitely better than I thought. And no one does the
human weasel like Fisher Stevens! There were some macabrely funny
moments and some nice twists. The problem is the plot also had one
twist too many. I thought the final twist with Clay's father was
totally unnecessary.

The movie might not be for the squeamish. I had to look away more than
a few times and half way through the movie I realized I had put my hand
over my heart in several scenes. I have to say in that sense, it
worked.

I know this movie has caught some slack for medical inaccuracies. I'm
usually a stickler for accuracy, but really, are people going to see
this movie to learn how to be a surgeon or to get the crap scared out
of them? I say if it's the later, it works!
<|_=00=_|>
The twenty-two year old Clay Beresford (Hayden Christensen) is a genius
of finance secretly in love of his mother's secretary Sam Lockwood
(Jessica Alba). Clay has a complex, expecting recognition from his
mother Lilith Beresford (Lena Olin) that he is as capable as his father
was, and he needs heart transplantation. When Clay finds a donor
compatible with his rare blood, he requests his friend Dr. Jack Harper
(Terrence Howard) to operate him under the protest of his mother that
wants the famous Dr. Jonathan Neyer (Arliss Howard) responsible for the
procedure. On the eve of his heart surgery, Clay marries Sam and during
the surgery, he experiences an "anesthetic awareness" that leaves his
conscious but paralyzed. Clay witnesses the dialogs in the room and
discovers dark secrets about his surgery.

"Awake' has a simple but effective story about a wealthy young man that
needs to be submitted to heart transplantation and experiences an
anesthetic awareness discovering that things are not like he believes
they are. The cast is excellent, leaded by the still gorgeous Lena
Olin, Terrence Howard, Jessica Alba and Hayden Christensen. The plot
point was a great surprise for me and I really like this original
movie. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Awake: A Vida Por um Fio" ("Awake: Life in the Edge")
<|_=00=_|>
Thanks to what was the craziness of how hot hot hot Jessica Alba was
this past year, a lot of people, including me, really didn't wanna see
a movie with her. Yes, she's beautiful, but can she act? The eternal
question where I finally saw something, Awake, she actually did a
decent job. I rented Awake the other day and watched it, this was
actually a lot better than I thought it was going to be. I have to say,
this was a first, I really did not see that conclusion coming. It was
awesome to see a movie that had a clever script, was it realistic? I
wouldn't necessarily agree, the movie and story does have it's flaws
here and there, but if you let them slide, it's a fun little thriller
that will have you on the edge of your seat.

Clay has everything: money, a loving mom, a company of his own, a world
in his hands, and a beautiful woman, Sam. But unfortunately, his heart
isn't so lucky, so much so that he needs a transplant, and his trusted
friend Jack Harper is going to do the transfer for him. But his mom is
begging him to re-consider and have another surgeon do the operation,
but Clay says she just has to trust his instincts, which may be the
biggest mistake he can make.

Awake is a pretty cool movie, the actors, some things are over done,
but it's a thriller, it's supposed to keep you scared and tense, so I
am willing to over look the non-existence of reality, I think this
movie meant to be that way. I also just hate to say it, Jessica Alba is
decent in the movie and covers herself well in her role as Sam. But the
top performance of the film was without a doubt from Howard, he was so
convincing and almost made you feel bad for him, well, I don't want to
give too much away, you'll just have to see what I mean. But I do
recommend Awake, it's a good movie, I'm impressed.

7/10
