
As a part time comic geek and a full time movie geek I was surprised
that anyone would green-light a film based on the old Marvel comic "Man
Thing." Obviously I had no expectations for this straight to DVD
release when I saw it last week but all in all I was pleasantly
surprised. Now don't get me wrong, "Man Thing" is by no definition the
best comic book film ever made but it is at least true to it's origins
unlike "Batman Forever" and "Batman & Robin." The basic story is pretty
much a product of the "plot wheel" and you won't see any big name
actors but if you treat it for what it is, a solid B-movie, there are
worse ways to spend an hour and a half. The title creature looks as if
the special effects and costume designers did their best to capture
this little known character's appearance and movement. Not to say that
this film doesn't have it's problems, bad annoying camera gimmicks and
cartoonish supporting actors among them, however I don't believe that a
reviewers job is to turn into a whinny nitpicker. If you really love
the medium there aren't that many films that you can't find at least
one good element in. "Man Thing" never stood a chance to be much more
than a guilty pleasure but honestly you can't expect a first rate film
adaptation of a third rate comic book. This is a film for B movie night
and that's not necessarily a bad thing. Cut. Print.
<|_=00=_|>
Something evil is living in a swamp, something that kills all that
enter its territory, the "dark waters". As more people are killed, the
local town sheriff learns that a swamp-monster of Indian legend is
responsible. Can he stop the creature before it can continue killing?
"Man-Thing" has gotten primarily bad reviews here on IMDb, but I
thought it wasnot terrible. Not great either, loaded with clichés,
yes, but I've seen much worse films released courtesy of the Sci-fi
channel. Any of you ever seen of "Boa Vs. Python"?!?!? There's plenty
of stuff to like here. The swamp photography is beautiful. The shades
of greens gave the film a very nice look, and the swamp is setting is
effectively creepy. Director Brett Leonardwho you may remember as the
guy behind 1992's "Lawn Mower Man"gives the film good atmosphere, and
there were even a couple of creepy moments towards the finale. The
monster was scary and looked very, very impressive, to say the least.
There was some pretty weak CG used for its tentacles among other things
but thankfully the creature itself is a good old-fashioned
man-in-a-suit creation, and a darn good one at that. Kudos to the
effects team on this memorable, nasty-looking beast. Oh, there's the
abundant gore too, which is certainly a plus. I won't give away what
happens in the film, but I will say gore fans will be very happy. I
also liked Roger Mason's creepy, atmospheric score. 

Problems begin with two things: The script and the actors. The
screenplay offers lots of typical horror conventions: Throwaway monster
victims, cheap pop scares, greedy and unrealistic bad guys, wise
Indians who know about the monster, and so on. If you know the genre,
you're probably familiar with this set-up by now, and it can be very
tiring. The actors are mostly weak (Save for lead actor Matthew Le
Nevez who wasn't bad), and those "southern" accents sure sound
Australian if you ask me! 

"Man Thing" is flawed and offers a familiar set-up, but if you can
overlook that you'll be treated to a gory, creepy monster movie. Better
than most made-for-TV horror films I've seen, and I've seen a lot.

6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
An Oil Company whose owner is an ambitious villain(Jack Thompson)is
polluting the Bywater lands and the villagers are up in arms and a
swamp thing is committing horrible murders. A new sheriff named
Kyle(Matthew Le Nevez) arrives the little town. He is sent to the Bayou
to investigate , helped by a deputy (Alex O'Loughlin) . There finds a
beast, a plant with an animal's aggression power for survival and fury.
Meanwhile the sheriff falls in love with a gorgeous elementary school
teacher named Teri ( Rachael Taylor).

This exciting picture is packed by thrills, chills, gory killings and
brief nudism in charge of Imogen Bailey. It's an unusual mix of monster
movie and intrigue but definitely an enjoyable movie. From the
producers- Avi Arad and Stan Lee- of Spiderman, Daredevil, X men, Blade
and several others. Director Brett Leonard made this campy swamp romp
adapted from the Marvel comic books of the same name. Director
deliberately use comic-book style to keep us from taking anything too
seriously. It's a co-production USA-Australia filmed in Sydney , New
South Wales with good cinematography by Steve Arnold. Fans horror will
love this movie about a monster part vegetable, part man . In similar
style adapted from D.C. Comics were made in 1982 ¨The Swamp Thing¨ by
Wes Craven with Louis Jourdan, Adrienne Barbeau and Ray Wise in which a
chemical installation turns into walking vegetation monster. And its
following : ¨Return of Swamp Thing¨(1989) by Jim Wynorski with Heather
Lockleaar, Lous Jourdan and Sarah Douglas.
<|_=00=_|>
As a die hard marvel comic book fan, I listed Sci Fi's showing of
"Man-thing" as a must see. The film opens up like a low budget Friday
the 13th movie. I can only assume it involved a couple having sex
because the television cut was "choppy" to say the least.

As the plot started to unfold, it became increasingly clear Man-thing
was not going to be a big part of this movie. Instead, the script chose
to focus on a sleazy oil tycoon, a tree hugging hottie, and a green
behind the ears sheriff. There was also a sub-plot involving alleged
stolen proceeds from the sale of sacred Indian land.

If you are looking for a lot of cool shots of the monster, you will be
disappointed. Aside from the occasional random killing, Man-thing isn't
really seen until the film's finale. There also seems to be no rhyme or
reason to Man-thing's murderous rampage. In several scenes he will only
kill one of the parties while inexplicably letting everyone else get
away. There is also a very out of place scene where an Indian allows
himself to be killed for no apparent reason.

The acting in this film is on par with most B movies in the genre. I
occasionally noticed some Australian sneaking into the actors supposed
thick southern accents.

Overall I gave the movie a 6. It is entertaining provided you are
willing to overlook the many plot holes. One final question, why
doesn't anyone ever go into the swamp during the day?
<|_=00=_|>
There are reviews out there that claim this movie is horrid. um, you
expected what exactly from a movie called "MAN-thing"? I'm familiar
with the comic and sure, they've changed things like they did for the
Blade character in his movies. Honestly I don't know what else they
could of done without making this a goofy teen comedy about some ones
"man thing" (ok now that penis joke is out of my system!!) This is B
movie, pure and simple. Its a slasher/monster flick and when u view it
as just that, not some citizen kane like master piece, then you'll
enjoy it. It has some good Cheap scares and a monster tree that goes
around butchering people. Did I mention that there is a lot of gore and
plenty of violent deaths that would make a Friday the 13th fan happy?
Graphic Tree tentacle/root impalings are the order of the day. The
special effects are fine, the story does the job for this sort of
movie, and its probably the bloodiest Marvel movie yet (I kid u not)
The only thing that got to me was some of the casting. Now I know a lot
of no name Australian Actors were cast for this movie and well...
Aussies cant pull a southern accent off for crap. Its not a major
problem, 15 minutes into it and you don't really notice (in between all
the tree branch impalings!!) But I have to say that Jack Thompson and
the female lead are the worst offenders in this regard. The rest of the
cast do a decent job. Oh, and I've read some reviews on certain sites
that the ManThing monster is hardly shown. Thats BS. The director takes
the jaws route at the start of the movie, showing very little of the
monster but by the last half hour u get to see plenty of him. And for a
low budget flick, the monster effects are pretty cool - better than say
- the monster effects in StarShip troopers 2, another low budget direct
to video flick. Overall for a Direct to video movie, ManThing does the
job. It would have been a misfire to release this theatrically, but for
a sci fi channel/Direct to DVD movie this one is much much better than
some of the other Direct to video movies (Boa Vs Python, dragon slayer
etc etc) Worth a watch if ur into B movies or slasher or monster flicks
with lotsa gore. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Schist oil company is polluting the Bywater swamp and the locals
are up in arms about it  but that is nothing compared to how the
guardian of the swamp, Man-Thing, feels. Man-thing will not rest until
the drilling platform has gone, and until then he will kill anyone he
can get his branches on.

New sheriff in the town, Kyle Williams, and sexy third grade school
teacher, Teri, embark on a quest to put an end to the death and
destruction.

Brett Leonard's adaptation of the Marvel comic books is an enjoyable
and schlocky monster flick that never gets ideas above its station and
is savvy enough to give its core audience exactly what they want; we
get moderate gore, a smattering of nudity, a pretty decent monster and
a plot that doesn't exactly tax the old grey matter.

The swamp locations are a sufficiently creepy setting for the tale.
Swimming in mist and bathed in a spooky green glow, they allow Leonard
to use shadows and light for maximum effect - at times concealing the
horror and at others, revealing it in its full gory glory.

The effects  both the gore and the creature  are also pretty
impressive. When Man-Thing gets busy on his victims, he doesn't hold
back and we get a range of gruesome body parts splashed across the
screen during its 105 minute running time.

In fact, the only thing that really lets this film down is its pacing.
The film is too long (by about 20 minutes) and too much time is spent
with characters either chatting or wandering aimlessly through the
swamp. If there had been a little less talk and a little more action,
I'd have rated it higher.
<|_=00=_|>
An interesting choice for Marvel to adapt to the big screen (or in most
cases, the small screen), but don't go expecting "X-Men", "X-2" or
"Spider-Man". What we have here is a fairly good horror movie, with a
great location and likable cast who all look like they are having fun.
Matthew Le Nevez and Alex O'Lachlan (the Sheriff and the Deputy) are
two hotties who make the film even more worthwhile, and Rachael Taylor
was pretty good too. The special effects were decent, and the swamp
looked real (but then again, I'm no swamp expert), it was creepy and
looked just right to have a serious case of missing-persons. I applaud
Marvel for an interesting take on the villain also - not Man-Thing, but
the concept of the destruction of the environment. This environmental
destruction takes a human form in Jake Schist, played by Pat Thompson,
and his cronies. The horror aspect of the film wasn't over-played, nor
under-played, but subtle, and the cinematography used when Le Nevez and
Taylor enter the "Dark Water" is excellent. My only major complaint
with the film was that it was a little slow-paced in some places, and
it would have been nice to see a little more romance between Le Nevez
and Taylor's characters. Otherwise, a decent watch.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie adaptation of Marvel Comics' 1970s comic book about a
swamp-dwelling muck monster was originally supposed to receive a U.S.
cinema release in late 2004. But this was pulled, and the film
eventually debuted on the American Sci-Fi Channel the following year.

Initially it was intended for the movie to be filmed in Louisiana, the
same setting as the comics, but production shifted to Australia due to
budgetary reasons, and the cast was filled with local actors.

This is perhaps the main reason why Marvel had second thoughts about
launching Man-Thing into cinemas: the lack of star power. Even low
budget movies that are made for the direct-to-video or cable markets
have at least a couple of familiar character actors or B list names
amongst their casts, but the only recognisable face in Man-Thing is
Aussie glamour model and lads mag favourite Imogen Bailey. She has a
minor role, and provides the movie with it's skin quota by going
topless in the first four minutes.

The most surprising and best thing about the film is that it avoids the
approach previously taken by the two movies and TV series based on DC
Comics' rival creature Swamp Thing, and doesn't portray it's title
character as a monstrous but kindhearted do-gooder battling against bad
guys. Instead, this film is an outright horror film, which boasts a
fair amount of gore and some pretty gruesome deaths.

The story concerns a new sheriff arriving in a small town on the edge
of the bayou, and immediately finding himself caught in the middle of a
dispute between an oil company that's draining the swamp on one side,
and environmental protesters (including the local Native American
population) on the other. But he's more concerned about the large
number of people going missing in the area, including the previous
sheriff, especially when some of them start floating to the surface as
extremely messed-up corpses.

It's not the most original plot in the world, and based on the brief
summary I've just given, you can probably guess how it all turns out.
There's also no prizes for the characterisations on display: the Native
Americans are portrayed as noble and wise, most of the white locals are
violent and racist rednecks, and the oil drilling villains are
irredeemably evil (in one terribly misjudged scene, the two main bad
guys discuss killing someone, then laugh for several seconds just to
prove how evil they are).

Despite such unoriginality, it's a shame that Man-Thing got dumped
straight to cable, for despite it's meagre budget, this is a film that
would not have looked embarrassed on the big screen. The visuals are
amazing. The bayou scenes are wonderfully lit in lush shades of green,
and the swamp looks beautiful, fascinating, eerie and forbidding, often
all at the same time. I'm assuming that the majority of filming took
place on location, but even those scenes that logic dictates must have
been shot on a set (such as the film's explosive climax at an oil
drilling station) look just as real. It's impossible to tell the
difference between the sets and the actual swamp.

Regarding the title character, the movie ignores his (it's?) origin as
portrayed in the comics. But considering that Man-Thing's origin
involved Marvel Comics mainstays such as the world-conquering covert
organisation A.I.M. (Advanced Idea Mechanics, if you're wondering) and
the secret serum that created the superheroic Captain America, it's a
wise move. Trying to introduce such concepts into a stand-alone film
that commerically must appeal to non-comic readers would have been too
time-consuming and confusing. Instead, the Man-Thing is just vaguely
referred to as being 'the guardian spirit' of the swamp, from Native
American folklore.

That said, a handful of references to the original stories are littered
throughout the film for fans to spot: Ted Sallis and the Nexus of
Realities are both mentioned, plus a couple of supporting characters
are named after writers and artists who worked on the comic book back
in it's 70s heyday.

Actual appearances by the title character are kept to a minimum, but
instead of making the viewer feel short-changed, it just means that the
Man-Thing's scenes have all the more impact when they occur. I
mentioned earlier that this movie looks amazing, and that extends to
the Man-Thing itself, a wonderful special effects creation that
combines a man-in-a-costume with overladen CGI. Despite the low budget,
it's one of the most impressive monsters I've even seen on screen, and
possesses a subtle Lovecraftian quality. Full marks to all involved.

In conclusion, I rate Man-Thing as one of my favourite Marvel movie
adaptations, second only to the under-rated Daredevil (2003).
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen this movie and it's not so bad but it's not a movie that
will give you a real sense of horror.the first thing is that the
monster is not very scary at all...it's more like a big tree with red
eyes,i have been more scared by the dogs in the movie and you will see
what i mean if you watch it.The plot and the effects are good but the
actors are not really trying.Overall it is a good movie to watch when
you don't have anything better to do and you will not be very
disappointed after but do not expect any masterpiece.If you ask
yourself why that sheriff goes in the swamp only at night...it's a good
question.my vote 5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie a lot. It was very cool and a fun movie to watch.
Some people hate it because it puts down the comic book. Well I haven't
read the comic book, but I really like the film. It is about a new
police sheriff who moves down to a hick town in Louisiana. The last
sheriff disappeared and several deaths have occurred. Upon investing
these murders, he finds out that Indian spirits have resurrected the
"Man-Thing" to punish the people because of an oil rig that was put in
the Indians holy land. You then find out that the owner of the oil rig
is corrupt and killed the Indian leader in order to buy the land. This
is a very cool movie. The Man-Thing suit looks really cool and for a
lower budget film, the digital effects are pretty good. The vines on
Man-Things back look really good. I would recommend this film for a
good relaxing time. But not for someone who doesn't like to just have
fun.
