
I heard bad things about this movie. I heard it wasn't well written and
that Jim Carrey was a bad actor in it etc. DON'T YOU BELIEVE IT! It's
not true. This movie is absolutely amazing. Jim Carrey did an excellent
job at acting serious. He was 100% serious in this movie. He didn't try
any facial expressions or noises he was 100% serious. He did an
unforgettable role. He's even more serious than The Truman Show. The
story is well put together and well written. Carrey losing his memory
after a car crash in the river. The town people think he's someone that
went to war and who has come back. Carrey must try to remember who he
is. The people they know who he is are looking for him and will cause a
lot of trouble if he doesn't find out quick. Fantastic, sweet and
dramatic story. I recommend it to anyone. It is to be enjoyed by
anyone. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

By the end of this movie you will love the movies, love America, and
love Jim Carrey. Every other movie staring Jim Carrey, no matter how
serious, you could still see a little bit of Ace Ventura coming out. In
this movie, it is a COMPLETE 180 degree performance. There were no
outrageous facial expressions, gestures or body movements. It was just
him, and he's awesome!

The story was good too, of course. Peter Appleton (Jim) is a movie
writer during the time of the communist witch-hunt and he gets
black-listed, loses his memory and winds-up in this town in which he
looks like a guy that was lost in the war. He adopts this life because
he doesn't know any better and he falls in love there. When he realizes
who he is and is called to testify on his own behalf, he realizes that
he needs to stand up against the committee because, "if a bully rises
up, it's up to us all to beat them back down, no matter the cost."

<|_=00=_|>
This DVD came in my last batch from Netflix, and I wondered why I had
ever chosen it. Finally on a rainy Saturday, I put it on and was
enchanted and moved. Jim Carey was great as were all the cast. The
story seemed so very timely in light of recent national events. A land
where dissenting voices are labeled unpatriotic and people of intellect
and wide-ranging analysis are dismissed as elitist is positively
frightening. "The Majestic" shows how we can get back to being our best
selves and fulfill our promise as a nation that now seems so bleak to
some of us. Caring about each other, our community, that is how we
really come alive and make a difference. Building and striving for what
is possible and making it safe to express and fulfill dreams gives me
hope that we really can get back to where we belong if we'd only stop
being so self-righteous, rude, and intolerant. I grew up in the party
of Eisenhower but never felt that opposing ideas were unpatriotic. We
need to be kinder to each other, recapture the courtesy of a lost era,
be thoughtful and intellectually curious to be sure that we come up
with the very best ideas and solutions we can in today's world. "The
Majestic" is a wonderful reminder of what ordinary people can do when
we come together and work to achieve something that uplifts a whole
community. I heartily recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a big fan of Jim Carrey since his "In Living Color" days. I
always felt he had a bright future ahead of him,as talented as the man
is.I very much looked forward to the man's film career beginning, but
sadly,at least for me anyway,his big screen efforts have left a lot to
be desired.Most of Carrey's films have been ridden with oversexed
dialog and toilet humor.Finally,a much more toned down Carrey gives me
something to smile about.His efforts in The Majestic are simply
amazing. The slapstick humor is put aside,very delicately,and what we
have is a very appealing fictional story,with Carrey making an
excellent romantic and dramatic lead.If you go into the watching of
this film looking for the outrageous hairdo of Ace Ventura,the hideous
green mask,or anything of the like from his previous films,this will be
a big disappointment to you,but if you go into it with an open mind
about what he can accomplish dramatically,you will be most
pleased.Things are looking up for Jim Carrey.Also,Martin Landau is
great as always in a supporting role.Thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a nice film. A movie that will make you laugh. I smiled most of the
movie, and may be that was too long (146 minutes), I enjoyed it all. The
story (a man with amnesia is seen as a long lost son in a small town) is not
that special, but it has some nice things to avoid the bigger cliches. Jim
Carrey is great as he was in The Truman Show. The movie is very well made,
and in the end you will have a nice feeling about it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my favorite Jim Carey movies and I have watched it over
and over. It really shows his versatility as an actor, not just a
comic, and I loved the plot. An old fashioned movie with no bad
language, sex or violence. It was extremely well cast and I really
liked the old gentleman who lived in the basement of the theater and
was so dignified. Every time I see him with his "Dog" I get a lump in
my throat. Jim Carey plays such a caring role and his relationship with
Harry is so warm and believable.The way he gets the town to rally
around the Majestic is fun and wonderful. The woman who plays his
lady-friend is beautiful and I wish I could see her in other movies.
One of my favorite all time films.
<|_=00=_|>
That comment sums up the movie. If you happen to like Capra-esquire
movies, you will adore The Majestic. If you think they are silly,
sentimental and simplistic, you won't. It's just that simple.

The movie plot runs on two levels. Jim Carrey, playing straight, is
Peter Appleton, a B-movie screenwriter in 1951 Hollywood who is trying
to break into A-pictures when he is accused of being a Communist by the
House Un-American Activities Committee. As the witch hunt begins to
unfold, he has a traffic accident that ends with him and his car
falling into a river. He is carried out to sea only to be washed up on
the beach below Lawson, California - with no memory of who he is, his
past life, or how he got there.

He is promptly mistaken for Luke Trimble, a local hero missing and
presumed dead by the entire town, who like 62 other Lawson boys gave
his life for his country in World War II. Lawson's sacrifice was
recognized by President Roosevelt declaring the town a national
monument and sending a bronze sculpture to commemorate its dead.
However, the town's losses have caused Lawson to lose its heart and its
way.

The reappearance of 'Luke,' and Peter's actions taken in another man's
shoes, revitalize the town beginning with Luke's father, Harry (Martin
Landau, in a great role) and The Majestic, the theatre owned by the
Trimbles, which Harry had closed in 1942 presumably on learning of
Luke's death. While Adele, the doctor's daughter (and Luke's fianc√©e)
tries to restore 'Luke's' memory, Peter and Harry refurbish and reopen
The Majestic, and bring life back to the town. All is going well in
'Luke's' life... until the investigators for the HUAC show up with a
subpoena a couple of days after Harry's death - on the day of Harry's
funeral, in fact - and coincidentally after Peter's regaining his
memory.

Peter's agent also shows up. He has news. It has occurred to the HUAC
that in Peter's case, perhaps they are mistaken; but they have to save
face. All Peter, a man who has never had much in the way of personal
convictions, has to do is stand up at an HUAC hearing in Los Angeles
and read a prepared statement in which he abjures his membership in the
Communist Party, apologizes for his error, promises to mend his ways
and name names, and all will be forgiven. He'll get his life back. His
A-list film, which the studio shelved, will go back into production.
He'll get everything he ever wanted.

But Peter has a problem. It's Luke, you see. He was not just a local
hero. He was a Hero with a capital H, and Peter has been him for a few
months, as Adele points out to him; and when Luke reaches out from the
past to touch Peter, Peter is ready to listen.

If you are a Capra fan, you can guess the ending and will approve. If
you aren't, you'll say this is a mixture of schmaltz and hokum with
just a dash of idealism and SO not realistic. And if you say that, I
say you're wrong.

Capra could have made this picture, with Jimmy Stewart as Peter/Luke,
June Allyson as Adele, Edward Arnold as the head of the HUAC, and a
whole bunch of MGM's "old reliable" character actors in the supporting
roles. The movie is a throwback to a more innocent time when people
still believed in heroes and dared to dream about more than just
maintaining the status quo. On a scale of 1 to 10, I give it an 8; and
I wish Carrey would make more movies like this. He's a better straight
actor than he is given credit for. This is one of the movies you can
tell will stand the test of time, and as such you should add it to your
collection and your list to the 200 Greatest American Movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Like most people I know, I've seen Jim Carey preform in movies where
the writers expected him to have a warped sense of humor or outlook on
life, or a zany personality - or both. Sometimes I appreciated it, such
as in Batman Forever or Bruce Almighty; other times I didn't, like when
he preformed a butchered Grinch or when Ace Ventura made me sick with
his humor. Still, whether I liked the movie's story, I admired the way
his acting brought the crazies to life. The only exception I'd ever
seen was him as the quiet, grown narrator in Simon Birch - until I
found The Majestic. Here he doesn't have an outburst of anger, or a
goofy-acting moment. He plays a Hollywood screenwriter, Peter - or Pete
- Appleton, who thinks life is good and lives it normally. He's on the
verge of making 1st-rate films, has an actress girlfriend, and is
respected by all. But all that changes when he's blacklisted for
attending a communist meeting, unawares, with his college girlfriend.
He's now stripped of his girlfriend, who dumps him, and his career when
his latest screenplay is examined by the FBI to see whether he is
indeed a communist. Having too much to drink at the local bar, he makes
the mistake of going out to drive afterward and crash-lands in a river,
managing to escape the car but knocking his head so when discovered on
the beach of Lawson the next morning by resident Stan Keller (James
Whitmore, The Shawshank Redemption) he doesn't have a clue who he is or
why he's there. The townspeople find him familiar, and shortly after he
arrives former theater owner Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) is convinced
that this is his son Luke, MIA almost a decade ago in WWII. The people,
still grieving over the lost of 60 others, are delighted to welcome
"Luke" home. He is content to live surrounded by people who admire him,
Luke's girlfriend Adele, and work in the Majestic movie theater,
unaware that he has both another life and a government agency waiting
to catch up to him. This movie itself really is majestic. Someone I
know who's always thought Carey overdid his roles saw this, and loved
it and called him a good actor. I loved it myself. I thought it was odd
how we barely met Pete's original girlfriend, who wasn't even shown
breaking up with him, and the fact that the government suddenly had
doubts that he was the communist spy they'd thought the day his trial
was set, especially after they rejected his movie script as communist
work and wrote his vehicle as belonging to a commie in the papers when
it was found (and with the wallet picture found with it, why did nobody
see its resemblance to "Luke"?). but I enjoyed everything about this
anyway. This is by far the best Jim Carey movie I've seen.
<|_=00=_|>

I often wondered how Carrey would handle a drama and now I know. Totally
enjoyed this trip through nostalgiatown as Carrey rejuvenated a town with
his infectious personality. Heavily dramatic at times but always with an
undercurrent of jollity running through it. I especially appreciated
Carrey's dead on comments in the military graveyard. 
<|_=00=_|>

This installment from the Frank Darabont, director of Shawshank
Redemption, The Green Mile and soon to come Fahrenheit 451, came back
in 2001. This film highlights th actor Jim Carrey in a more serious
role aside from his brilliance ion the realm of comedy. This film has a
great message about standing up for what we believe in against any kind
of oppression or tyranny even if it comes from our own government. This
is told using a flavorful twist of identities, which of course is based
primarily upon the old French Medieval legend- Return of Martin Guerre,
and the growing concern of communism in the late 40's and early 50's.
There are also some other historical aspects that need to be addressed.
This movie came at the eve of 9-11, which led to a massive hysteria
over, not Commies, but of Muslims. Interesting how the writer/director
Darabont takes this lost character who takes another's identity and
transforms him a hero by simply adding that Carrey had amnesia. He now
has a great message to give to the courts and to the "whole of
mankind." At the time this movie came out, it seemed like the movie had
little purpose and meaning. Watching it today, it has gained a new
meaning and warning on our civilization(wasn't Darabont lucky).
Unfortunately, I don't buy the argument and disagree. There are too
many little details either missing or unlikely that hurt the story.
Still, the originality, color, relationships, character development,
angles, and plot development all draw to make this film highly
enjoyable. This film receives 88.5 out of 100 points.

