
Two dysfunctional brothers (Philip Seymour Hoffman and Ethan Hawke) get
tired of competing for who is the bigger f***-up and who Daddy (Albert
Finney) loves more, so they hatch a hair-brained scheme to rob Mommy
and Daddy's jewelry store so that they can clear their debts and start
fresh. Sounds like a great plan except that this is a suspenseful
1970's style melodrama about a heist gone wrong, and boy, do things
really go wrong here for our hapless duo and everyone involved.
Lasciviously concocted by screenwriter Kelly Masterson and classically
executed by director Sidney Lumet, "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead"
uses the heist as its McGuffin to delve deep into family drama.

Contrary to popular belief, Sidney Lumet is not dead. At age 83, he has
apparently made a deal with the Devil to deliver one last great film.
Lumet was at his zenith in the 1970's with films like "Dog Day
Afternoon," "Serpico," and one of my favorite films of all time,
"Network". He has somehow managed to make a film that bears all the
hallmarks of his classics while intertwining some more modern elements
(graphic sexuality, violence, and playing with time-frames and POV's)
into a crackling, vibrant, lean, mean, and provocative melodrama. One
can only hope that some of the modern greats (like Scorsese or
Spielberg) who emerged during the same decade Lumet was at the top of
his game will have this much chutzpah left when they reach that age.

Lumet is a master at directing people walking through spaces to create
tension and develop characters. As the cast waltzes through finely
appointed Manhattan offices and apartments his slowly moving camera
creates a palpable sense of anxiety as we never know who might be
around the next corner or what this person might do in the next room.
Also amazing is how Lumet utilizes the multiple POV and shifting
time-frame approach. The coherent and classical presentation he uses
makes the similarly structured films of wunderkinds Christopher Nolan
and Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu seem like amateur hour.

Of course, what Lumet is best at is directing amazing ensemble casts
and tricking them into acting within an inch of their lives. Philip
Seymour Hoffman has never been, and most likely never will be, better
than he is here. Albert Finney's quietly searing portrayal of a father
betrayed and at the end of his rope is a masterpiece to watch unfold.
Ethan Hawke, normally a nondescript pretty boy, is perfect as the
emotionally crippled younger brother who has skated by far too long on
his charms and looks. The coup-de-grace, however, is the series of
scenes between Hoffman and Marisa Tomei, eerily on point as his flighty
trophy wife. Lumet runs them through the gamut of emotions that
culminate in a scene that is the best of its kind since William Holden
taunted Beatrice Straight right into a Best Supporting Actress Oscar in
"Network." 

The Devil of any great film is in the details, from Albert Finney's tap
of his car's trunk that won't close due to a fender bender, to the look
Amy Ryan (fresh off her amazing turn in "Gone Baby Gone") gives her
ex-husband Ethan Hawke at his mawkish promise to his little girl all
three of them knows he won't keep, to the systematic unraveling of a
family on the skids, to the dialog begging for cultists to quote it (my
favorite line being the hilariously threatening "Do you mind if I call
you Chico?") to the excellent Carter Burwell score. "Before the Devil
Knows You're Dead" is the film of the year. If something emerges to
best it, then we know a few other deals must've been brokered with Old
Scratch.
<|_=00=_|>
After a cold sex scene, between Andy and Gina, in South America, we
know that Andy is a payroll manager who finds himself in a hard
economic situation where he badly needs some extra money We also
discover that he has been stealing from his job and using the money to
his drug habits He's also attempting to keep up with his wife, who
just might be having an affair 

To solve all their problems, he persuades his brothera likable
loserto join him in a plan to steal their own parent's small store
Their parents are happily married and proprietors of a jewelry store
situated in New York's Westchester County Sixty thousand dollars is
all they'll need to get their life out of desperation 

Three main characters are important in this movie

First the two brothers Each of them is a complex individual,
threatened with multiple motivations, and sunk into doubts and
disappointments The two are desperate characters, financially and
emotionally

Andy is selfish He feels that he has never had the love of his father
He is the corrupting influence, turning his brother into an assailant,
and his beautiful woman into an adulteress

Hank is a puppet too weak to resist his brother's wishes His ex-wife
is one of the reasons he needs money as he owes her hundreds in child
support. He longs to regain the confidence he once had with his
father 

The third character is their weary and deplorable father Charles Hanson
(Albert Finney), especially in the haunting climactic scenes

Telling you more about the details could lessen the impact of the film,
and therefore the entertainment...

Tomei's performance conveys great depth and emotion even with her look,
her touch, her particular move

Lumet's direction is firm, fresh and brutal.
<|_=00=_|>
What an extraordinary crime thriller!! My wife and I saw this at the
Toronto International Film Festival last week and it was far and away
the best movie in an exceptionally strong festival. It's already my
second favourite film of all-time after DR. STRANGELOVE and I was
definitely on an emotional high as I walked home and discussed the film
with my wife.

I don't want to spoil the plot because thrillers of this calibre are
best enjoyed without preconceptions. A synopsis that I'd feel
comfortable sharing is that two brothers, played by Phillip Seymour
Hoffman and Ethan Hawke, are planning to rob a jewellery store in
Westchester, New York. The film bounces back and forth in time over
approximately a two week period of time (before, during and after the
robbery), and one key scene is repeated at least three times.
Ordinarily, that could disrupt the momentum of a film but that never
happens during this masterpiece. The excitement, the tension, and even
the quality of the acting only seemed to get better as the film
progressed. By the end, I was on the edge of my seat breathlessly
waiting to see how it would all wrap up. I know that I've used a few
clichés in this post, but I literally was on the edge of my seat. I
should mention that the non-linear storyline is quite easy to follow.
This isn't the sort of movie where you'll overhear audience members
asking their friend to explain the plot during the movie.

The acting is absolutely brilliant all-around, and I doubt I would have
the same admiration for the film if the casting hadn't been so perfect.
A tiny complaint is that Hoffman and Hawke don't look like brothers,
but that's a minor quibble that I can easily overlook. Hoffman was at
his very best and some of his scenes with Hawke were positively
electric. Marisa Tomei (as Hoffman's wife) and Albert Finney (as the
father of Hoffman & Hawke) are also very good in supporting roles. Even
some cameo performances were so impressive that I can still remember
every remark, gesture and facial expression by Brian O'Byrne and
Michael Shannon  absolute perfection. The robbery scene felt more
authentic than any other cinematic robbery scene I've ever watched, and
I had the same feeling of authenticity in most scenes, especially the
ones with Hoffman. The music helped to build up the tension throughout
the movie, often the same notes played over very effectively. I had the
music playing in my head the following day, even as I sat through other
films. In addition to my minor complaint at the beginning of this
paragraph, there was one plot twist that felt a bit unbelievable (major
spoiler, so I can't describe the scene). Otherwise, this film is pretty
darn close to perfect.

There were about a dozen great films at the festival that I would enjoy
watching a second time but BEFORE THE DEVIL KNOWS YOU'RE DEAD stands in
a league of its own. As an aside, the director Sidney Lumet spoke
before the film and he introduced Marisa Tomei and Ethan Hawke onto the
stage. Tomei didn't speak and she acted a bit shy so Lumet asked "Can
you believe that someone so beautiful could be so camera-shy?" That
comment is quite ironic considering the graphic opening scene!!
<|_=00=_|>
Says Andy: "Nobody gets hurt, everybody wins." Before he says it, we
know the opposite is true: Everybody gets hurt, nobody wins. This is a
new strand in American movies, or perhaps an old strand brought back at
long last. Think "Eastern Promises", "There Will Be Blood", "No Country
for Old Men". These movies are dark, serious, extremely well made, and
don't care about happy endings. I love them. "Before the Devil Knows
You're Dead" fits the general description, but creates an atmosphere
all its own. Kelly Masterson's debut script is as close as a Hollywood
movie will ever get to a Greek tragedy. Paying tribute to fellow
veteran director Stanley Donen, Sidney Lumet expertly and soberly turns
the sombre story into an outstanding, old school character drama. The
opening shots, although of an obese accountant doggy-styling his trophy
wife, have the look and feel of a Dutch master's painting. By contrast,
the drug dealer's condo looks more like a string of Mondrians. Great
performances all around. Only Albert Finney's character Charles feels a
little over-acted, eyes wide and mouth agape almost all the time. But
then he is in trouble deep, deeper than any of the troubles most of us
will ever know. For compensation, Marisa Tomei is super hot. But of
course you don't need me to tell you that. Why her character Gina would
want to be with a guy like Andy, we're never told, but that's okay.
Action is character, after all. The unique and magic touch of Carter
Burwell's music makes this fine movie a masterpiece. Don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
Sydney Lumet hasn't had a box office hit in 20 years and yet at 83 has
managed to churn out a tight, well-cast, suspenseful thriller set in
his old stamping ground, New York City. (How he got insurance, let
alone the budget after all those flops, is a mystery also). The story
is a pretty grim one and the characters are not particularly likable
but it held me on the edge of my seat till the final scene.

Two brothers with pressing financial problems conspire to rob a
suburban jewelry store owned by their elderly parents. The only victim
is going to be the insurance company. The robbery goes awry and two
people die. Most of the film is concerned with the aftermath. The
action is non-linear and seen from the main character's differing
points of view, but it is not difficult to follow. What is not so easy
to work out is the back story  how did the brothers get into such a
mess? There are clues  the younger brother being the baby of the
family is his fathers' favorite while the older brother seems to be
carrying a lot of baggage about his relationship with his father, and
vice versa, but that hardly accounts for him becoming a heroin-using
murdering embezzler.

As the scheming older brother, a corpulent Philip Seymour Hoffman
dominates the film, but he is well supported by Ethan Hawke as his
bullied, inadequate younger brother. Albert Finney as their father
seems to be in a constant state of rage but then the script calls for
that. Marisa Tomei as the older brother's cheating wife at the age of
42 puts in the sexiest performance I've seen in many a year. The film
literally starts with a bang, but we are out of that comfort zone
pretty quickly.

I don't know the origins of this story by first time scriptwriter Kelly
Masterton but I suspect that like Lumet's great 70's film "Dog Day
Afternoon" it is based on fact  it's too silly to be untrue. Lumet is
just about the last of those immensely versatile old-time craftsman
studio directors who with immense speed were able to direct just about
anything that was put in front of them. Some great films were produced
that way as well as some classic turkeys. This isn't a classic of
either sort  it's a well-crafted piece of downbeat entertainment. It
will probably leave you feeling that you were lucky not be a member of
a family as dysfunctional as this one, but still wondering as to how
they got that way. We do know the parents were happy but we see so
little of the mother and hear so little about her it is impossible pick
up on her relationship with the boys. (There is also a daughter whose
presence seems redundant). Well, like Tolstoy, we have to conclude that
"each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way".
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit that this is the type of film that I would normally
eschew, but I rented it basically because of the stars. I certainly was
not sorry. In fact, as you see, I rated it five stars. This film is the
perfect combination of sharp directing and superior acting.

Andy and Hank Hanson are brothers who decide to commit the uncouth
crime of robbing their parents' jewelry store. The crime goes terribly
wrong - thus beginning an examination of the three men in the Hanson
family. Through a series of flashbacks, we get to know Charles Hanson
and come to an understanding of the strained relationship between
father and sons.

Younger brother, Hank is basically a screw-up. He has always had
trouble holding a job and pretty much goes in the direction of the
wind. Hank is insecure, cowardly, and very much under the influence of
his big brother. Ethan Hawke has the character of Hank "nailed to a T"
and gives what is probably his best performance thus far. He shows us a
man who is basically good-hearted but so influenced by outside forces
that he is unable to follow through with any important task.

Andy - on the surface - appears to be a successful businessman, but we
soon discover that he is addicted to drugs and has been embezzling from
his company to pay for his habit. It is Andy who concocts the scheme to
rob his parents' store, and he gets weak-willed Hank to commit the act.
Philip Seymour Hoffman - surely one of the finest actors of our time -
plays Andy. Hoffman is an actor who has the ability to portray a man
who, on the surface, is a charming businessman liked by his
acquaintances but a real slime ball underneath. He is absolutely
perfect for the part of Andy or it might be said that he, through his
superior acting skills, made Andy the perfect part.

Albert Finney plays a father common to his generation. Charles Hanson
is not a bad or unfeeling man, but he has a lousy relationship with his
sons because he never really understood what was necessary in nurturing
a positive bond between his sons and himself. He has always been too
quick to criticize and admonish. He always made it clear that he
favored his younger son over his older thus causing a wide emotional
rift between himself and Andy. As we get to know Charles and Andy, the
thought of Andy forming a plan to rob from his father becomes less
unbelievable.

On a personal note, I cannot believe how much Charles Hanson reminded
me of my own father, and how much Andy and Hank reminded me of my own
brother and myself. Perhaps this may be one of the reasons that I
enjoyed the film so much as this story of a distant, critical father, a
more successful older brother, and a less successful younger brother
hit so close to home. Fortunately, my brother and I never came to the
state of committing a crime against my parents- guess we were made of
sterner and more moral stuff.

This complex of personalities and actions has been expertly put
together by director, Sidney Lumet. At eighty-three, he still has the
chops to give the audience engrossing characters and edge-of-seat
action that hypnotizes. 12 Angry Men was his first film made fifty
years prior to Before the Devil Knows You're Dead, but he hasn't lost
any bit of his magic touch in showing us characters that will be long
remembered.

The events and characters in Before the Devil Knows You're Dead are
harsh and unattractive, and this is definitely not a feel-good movie.
However, it is two hours of ultimate entertainment which I thoroughly
recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
I am beginning to see a very consistent pattern form in the identity of
2007's films. If 2004 was the year of the biographies and 2005 was the
year of the political films, 2007 can be identified as a year featuring
a wide plethora of morality tales, films that portray, test, challenge
and question human morality and the motives that drive us to do certain
things. Although this identification is rather broad, I think that
there are a handful of films released this year, such as 3:10 To Yuma,
Eastern Promises, American Gangster, No Country for Old Men and others
that specifically question and study human morals and the motives that
drive us to acts such as violence or treachery. Before the Devil Knows
You're Dead is a deviously stylish morality tale, and quite a dark,
bleak and depressing one at that. And even better is the fact that it
comes from one of the greatest classic directorial forces of our time,
the legendary Sidney Lumet, who many have said has passed his prime but
returns in full force with this viciously rich crime thriller.

It's one of those films whose plots are so thick, that one is very
reluctant to go into details. It is a movie that is best enjoyed if
entered without any prior knowledge to the events about to unfold, as
there are twists and turns. But the thick and richly wrought plot is
not at all at the center of this film; the true focus is, as I
mentioned, the morality tale; the motives that drive these two men to
the actions they do in the film. In a plot structured like a
combination between the filmographies of both The Coen Brothers (namely
Blood Simple and Fargo) and Quentin Tarantino, we see two men driven
under various shady circumstances to pull off a fairly simple crime
that goes incredibly, ridiculously wrong, and reciprocates with full
force and inevitable tragedy. And to make it all the more interesting,
the film is told in a fragmented chronology that keeps back tracking
and showing a series of events following a different character every
time and always ending up where it left off the last time. Sizzling,
sharp, thick and precariously depressing, Kelly Masterson's screenplay
is surprisingly poignant and well rounded, in particular because it is
a debut screenplay.

But the film has much more going for it than just it's delectably
sinister and quite depressing plot. First and foremost, the picture
looks and feels outstandingly well. Sidney Lumet has, throughout his
career, consistently employed an interesting style of cinematography
and lighting: naturalistic and yet stylish at the same time. The film
carries with it a distinctive air of style and class, with wonderful
natural lighting that just looks really great. Editing is top-notch;
combining the sizzling drama-thriller aspect with great long takes that
really take their time to portray the action accordingly. And vivid,
dynamic camera angles and movements further add to the style. The film
is also backed by a fantastically succulent musical score by Carter
Burwell.

The screenplay does its part, and of course Lumet does his part, but at
the film's dramatic center are three masterful actors who deliver
incredibly good performances. First and foremost, there are the two
leads. Leading the pack is Philip Seymour Hoffman, who has always been
an excellent actor but has stumbled upon newfound leading-man status
after his unnaturally fantastic Oscar-winning performance in Capote.
His turn in this film is fascinating: severely flawed, broken, manic.
Hoffman has some truly intense scenes in the film that really allow his
full dramatic fury to come out, and not just his subtlety and wit. At
his side is Ethan Hawke, who has delivered some fantastic performances
in many films that are almost always overshadowed by greater, grander
actors. Here, he bounces off Hoffman and complements him so incredibly
well; in all, the dynamic acting between the two of them is just so
utterly fantastic and convincing, the audience very quickly loses
itself in the characters and forgets that it's watching actors. And
then there's Albert Finney. Such a supple, opulent supporting role like
the one he has requires a veteran professional and here Finney delivers
his finest performance in many years as the tragically obsessed father
to the two brothers who get caught up in the crime. I love how the
dynamics between the three of them play out. I love how Hoffman is
clearly the dominant brother and shamelessly picks on his younger
brother even now that they're middle-aged men; and yet despite this, it
is clear how Finney's father favours Hawke's younger, weaker brother.
Also on the topic of the cast, the two supporting female characters 
wives of the brothers  also feature fantastic performances from Amy
Ryan and Marisa Tomei, whose looks just get better and better as the
years go by.

This film isn't revolutionary. These themes and this style have already
been explored by the likes of The Coen Brothers, and it's very easy to
imagine them directing this film. But for a film that treads familiar
ground, it simply excels. Lumet employs his own immense directorial
talent and employs his unique and very subtle sense of irony and style
to Masterson's brilliantly vivid, intense, and morbidly depressing
first-time screenplay. The lead performances are incredibly intense and
the film features absolutely fantastic turns from Hoffman, Hawke and
Finney; but the truly greatest wonder of the film is that three years
after he won a Lifetime Achievement Oscar, much revered as the ultimate
sign of retirement in the film business, Sidney Lumet proves that he
still has the immense talent to deliver a truly wonderful, resonant,
intense piece of cinema reminiscent of his golden years.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Sidney Lumet has made some masterpieces,like Network,Dog Day
Afternoon or Serpico.But,he was not having too much luck on his most
recent works.Gloria (1999) was pathetic and Find Me Guilty was an
interesting,but failed experiment.Now,Lumet brings his best film in
decades and,by my point of view,a true masterpiece:Before the Devil
Knows You're Dead.I think this film is like a rebirth for Lumet.This
movie has an excellent story which,deeply,has many layers.Also,I think
the ending of the movie is perfect.The performances are
brilliant.Philip Seymour Hoffman brings,as usual,a magnificent
performance and he's,no doubt,one of the best actors of our days.Ethan
Hawke is also an excellent actor but he's underrated by my point of
view.His performance in here is great.The rest of the cast is also
excellent(specially,the great Albert Finney) but these two actors bring
monumental performances which were sadly ignored by the pathetic
Oscars.The film has a good level of intensity,in part thanks to the
performances and,in part,thanks to the brilliant screenplay.Before the
Devil Knows You're Dead is a real masterpiece with perfect direction,a
great screenplay and excellent performances.We need more movies like
this.
<|_=00=_|>
The full title of this film is 'May you be in heaven a half hour before
the devil knows you're dead', a rewording of the old Irish toast 'May
you have food and raiment, a soft pillow for your head; may you be 40
years in heaven, before the devil knows you're dead.' First time
screenwriter Kelly Masterson (with some modifications by director
Sidney Lumet) has concocted a melodrama that explores just how
fragmented a family can become when external forces drive the members
to unthinkable extremes. In this film the viewer is allowed to witness
the gradual but nearly complete implosion of a family by a much used
but, here, very sensible manipulation of the flashback/flash forward
technique of storytelling. By repeatedly offering the differing
vantages of each of the characters about the central incidents that
drive this rather harrowing tale, we see all the motivations of the
players in this case of a robbery gone very wrong. 

Andy Hanson (Philip Seymour Hoffman) is a wealthy executive, married to
an emotionally needy Gina (Marisa Tomei), and addicted to an expensive
drug habit. His life is beginning to crumble and he needs money. Andy's
ne're-do well younger brother Hank (Ethan Hawke) is a life in ruins -
he is divorced from his shrewish wife Martha (Amy Ryan), is behind in
alimony and child support, and has borrowed all he can from his
friends, and he needs money. Andy proposes a low-key robbery of a small
Mall mom-and-pop jewelry store that promises safe, quick cash for both.
The glitch is that the jewelry story belongs to the men's parents -
Charles (Albert Finney) and Nanette (Rosemary Harris). Andy advances
Hank some cash and wrangles an agreement that Hank will do the actual
robbery, but though Hank agrees to the 'fail-safe' plan, he hires a
friend to take on the actual job while Hank plans to be the driver of
the getaway car. The robbery is horribly botched when Nanette, filing
in for the regular clerk, shoots the robber and is herself shot in the
mess. The disaster unveils many secrets about the fragile relationships
of the family and when Nanette dies, Charles and Andy and Hank (and
their respective partners) are driven to disastrous ends with surprises
at every turn. 

Each of the actors in this strong but emotionally acrid film gives
superb performances, and while we have come to expect that from
Hoffman, Hawke, Tomei, Finney, Ryan, and Harris, it is the wise hand of
direction from Sidney Lumet that make this film so unforgettably
powerful. It is not an easy film to watch, but it is a film that allows
some bravura performances that demand our respect, a film that reminds
us how fragile many families can be. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Sidney Lumet knows the wages of sin. Dog Day Afternoon was a classic of
the heist that went wrong with a performance by Al Pacino that went
right. His newest crime in the city is Before the Devil Knows You're
Dead, from an Irish toast, "May you be in heaven half an hour before
the devil knows you're dead." The brothers who rob their parents'
Westchester jewelry store, Andy Hanson (Philip Seymour Hoffman) and
Hank (Ethan Hawke) will surely be having a dialogue with the Hot One
when their lives are through, and they have suffered through the Lumet
circle of Hell-on-earth reserved for those not talented enough to avoid
Nemesis even in this life.

Lumet quietly builds the cascade of troubles from a couple of simple
mistakes in the crime's execution. Each moment is fraught with
punishing possibilities, some just dumb luck, others straight out of
existential responsibility. But each of those moments is bearable
because Lumet has ascribed the fault to the right places. We may squirm
at each turn of bad luck, but we are confident the forces of
righteousness will prevail.

Like Orson Welles, Lumet isn't much interested in linear narrative as
he cuts in and out of the four days before the heist and the week
after. That non-linear presentation allows the audience to verify the
early character-consistency estimates now played out at random times.

Befitting Lumet's seminal study of directing, Making Movies (1995), the
shots are composed to show the growing alienation of the brothers from
their father and each other. For example, a long shot of the two
brothers assessing the damage has them placed like bookends, far apart
but linked by the fate they are working out at that moment.

Their Greek tragic-like lives are exemplified before the robbery in the
petty adultery and embezzling that already corrode all their
relationships. Andy's Wife, Gina (Marisa Tomei), who is sleeping with
Hank, fulfills the requirements of a Siren who may have no idea how
dangerous she is.

The Devil will have his due.
