
I remember in 2005, as a young child who was just being acquainted with
the internet, learning about Lawrence Kasanoff's Foodfight!. The film
seemed unlike anything I had ever heard of before, combining dozens of
popular advertising mascots such as Mr. Clean, Chester Cheetah, Mrs.
Buttersworth, and Charlie the Tuna into one film that would resemble
Toy Story if its setting had been transferred to a supermarket. The
story of the film is actually one of cinema and animation's most
baffling stories of a film's time in development hell and still
captivates me whenever I scour the internet looking for a summation of
what exactly went on with the picture. The story is one of incredible
ambition, controversy, and an unfathomably disappointing conclusion. If
you're not familiar with the backstory, I'll give you a little rundown.

In 2001, director Lawrence Kasanoff, who was known for producing the
Mortal Kombat films as well as a handful of TV adaptations on the
franchise, announced an undertaking like no other - he was going to
make an animated film under his own company Threshold Entertainment
that focused on the events that would take place inside a supermarket
when the lights would turn off. Kasanoff envisioned a spectacle like no
other, centering on dozens of recognizable brand mascots that would
fend off a new, evil brand that attempted to takeover the marketplace.
Not only was a film planned, but merchandize-galore was in addition,
with toys, stuffed animals, a potential web show, commercial tie-ins,
fast food toys, books, and more were also planned to coincide with the
film's release. Kasanoff called Threshold Entertainment "the next
Pixar" and also banded together top animators from around the world to
piece together a project with incredible ambition. The film was to be
released in 2003.

So why is it that for a film this ambitious you probably haven't heard
a damn thing about it? Well, for starters, the film's first immediate
roadblock came in the form of a burglary in 2003 when hard drives
containing the film, its animation, and its conceptual mockups were
stolen. The animators and everyone assigned to the project needed to
start from scratch. Nonetheless, Kasanoff pushed on with the project,
confirming a release date of 2005.

Foodfight! never came out in 2005 and news of it became scarce and
vague when it did manage to circulate. The release date was changed
several times before finding itself up for auction in 2007 for a
surprisingly low $2.5 million, given its ambition and $65 million
budget. Finally, the film came out over a decade after it first hit
production, in October 2012. It received a very limited theatrical
release in Europe and a silent DVD/video-on-demand release in the
States, effectively ending one of the most mindbogglingly convoluted
chapters in animation history.

Now the question begs an answer, what does Foodfight! look like in its
final state? The simple answer is "hell." This is a film that was
clearly rushed upon being purchased at the aforementioned auction. The
story concerns, as stated, a supermarket that turns into a playground
for its product-mascots upon closing. The leader of this world is Dex
Dogtective (voiced by Charlie Sheen), a crime-fighter who becomes
incredibly suspicious of "Brand X," a new line of products that are
hitting store shelves. Dex and his gang of friends Sunshine Goodness
(Hilary Duff) and Daredevil Dan (Wayne Brady) prepare to keep the
supermarket in their hands, but Dex increasingly finds himself
distracted by the likes of Lady X (Eva Longoria), a desirable woman who
keeps trying to win Dex's eye and the store manager finds himself
dictated by Mr. Clipboard (Christopher Lloyd), who is enforcing Brand
X.

To begin with, the animation is awful. This is animation that looks and
moves like a broken Sims game on PlayStation. Never in my life did I
think I'd call an animated film with so many colors and characters
odious but that's exactly what it is. While the characters appear in a
three-dimensional state, the backgrounds almost look two-dimensional,
and worst, are almost indistinguishable in terms of what they're
supposed to be. This is clearly animation that is not finished and was
forced to be the finished product. Characters are very stiff when
moving, have a peculiar coldness to their movements in addition, and
many of them look grotesque and ugly.

Then there's the awful writing at hand here. One can sort of forgive
the animation for looking terrible, seeing as, understandably,
everyone's hands just wanted to be cleaned of this film, but with
twelve years of production and a forced rewrite thanks to a burglary,
you would think the writing would be marginally polished. And yet,
Foodfight! bears so much sexual innuendo it's ungodly and very
inappropriate for children (Daredevil Dan says to the sultry Lady X in
one scene, "Oh Mamacita! Yo, sweetcakes, nice packaging! How about some
chocolate frosting? I'd like to butter your muffin!"), Lady X boasts
fetish-like lingerie as her primary outlets, orchestrating the
fan-fiction version of her character, and characters speak almost
entirely in grocery-store/food puns. There's no characters here,
despite there being like thirty that are recognizable. There are just
empty, hollow animated creations programmed to spew something that is
allegedly funny.

Foodfight!'s existence and eventual outcome should be a warning to
those who have an idea they see bold and ambitious opportunities for.
Granted a burglary can't really be blamed on part of the writers and
directors but an awful script, a premise that seems to exist solely as
a corporate byproduct, fourth-rate animation, and incredibly
unforgivable and unnecessary sexual innuendos can be. The fact that
Foodfight! is a bad film is the least of its concerns; it's a morally,
ethically, and visually reprehensible fiasco that scrapes the bottom of
the barrel so forcefully that it's tearing a hole in its base.
<|_=00=_|>
...it's even worse.

All evidence points to this animated film being contrived as a
money-making scheme. "Hey, we can create a cheap CGI movie and make
companies pay for the celeb voices in advance by inserting their brands
in the film!" 

The result is worse than crass, it's abominably bad. It's so bad that
the film has been stuck in production limbo for a decade and it hasn't
aged well. The CGI, the story and the one-liners (oh God, the
one-liners...) all bear the mark of genuine and profound incompetence,
a complete lack of even the most most rudimentary story-telling skills.

What passes for a narrative revolves around supermarket brands coming
to life at night. Rex Dogtective (yeah, go ahead and try to laugh at
that one), voiced by Charlie Sheen, mourns his lost love but must soon
save his supermarket city from the evil, impersonal Brand X. With the
help of ... ah, who cares?

Foodfight! will bore, offend and anger you at the same time, such is
its unprecedented badness. Please don't watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Appalling, awful, tasteless and unfunny. CGI worse than a 1995 video
game, combined with stunningly inappropriate and crass double-entendres
make this an experience painful both to the eyes and the brain. Nazi-
themed products take over a supermarket, complete with Eva Longoria's
female Hitler character switching outfits between stripper schoolgirl
and fetish Nazi. "One brand, one market" she shrieks to the minions
gathered at a huge rally. Just vile. 

I'm all for a bit of a bit of tasteless comedy, but it's got to be at
least a little bit funny. And, please, not crass Nazism and innuendo in
a movie aimed at 5 year olds. Oh, and even my kids thought it was lame.
I hope the 'stars' got paid well - they should be doing pro-bono work
for the next 5 years to make up for it.

Genuinely the worst movie I have seen in the last 10 years - avoid at
all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
Foodfight! is a cynical, cheap, patronizing, lifeless, lazy, unfunny,
tasteless, shoddy, disrespectful, offensive-to-anyone-with-a-brain
piece of unmitigated garbage, sure, but it's much more than that.

Because it is meant to be entertainment aimed at children, and because
its message amounts to nothing more than "BUY OUR BRANDS, OUR BRANDS
LOVE YOU, YOU LOVE OUR BRANDS, EAT OUR FOOD, EAT, EAT, EAT, EAT,
EAT..." Foodfight! is not just a bad movie.

Foodfight! is PURE EVIL.

So far, the movie has only made $73,000 on a (shocking) $65 million
budget. I guess there is some justice in the world.

Ten years ago, when Threshold Entertainment's hard drives were stolen,
writer/director/producer Lawrence Kasanoff called it an act of
"industrial espionage." I salute the brave souls who actively hindered
the production of this film. You fought for the brain cells of children
everywhere. I think watching even fifteen minutes of this movie has
made me stupider.

Don't just skip this movie. Burn it, then bury it in a desolate field
somewhere. It deserves to die the worthless drop of despicable piddle
it is.

Also, *¢% Larry Kasanoff.
<|_=00=_|>
Words cannot begin to express how awful this movie is. Have you ever
seen Lawnmower Man? Remember those CGI scenes in which Jeff Fahey gets
it on with the CHI woman? OK, now imagine someone watched that and
thought "hey, there's a kids' movie here!! I just have to find some way
of slapping a script together, hiring the guys who made these really
cool graphics in the early 90s and I'll make literally thousands of
dollars!"

It doesn't appeal to kids, or adults, or even the blind apparently (a
blind guy walked out halfway through saying it stunk). I'm not sure
who's left.
<|_=00=_|>
You know, this review isn't based on the premise that this is an
egregious film. It is, I agree that this film is abhorrent. However,
the legend surrounding this lukewarm, atrocious piece of media is far
more enjoyable than this pile of excrement. 

This *ahem* "film" came out December of 2012. It was supposed to come
out in December of 2002. The film was stolen, and that was probably for
the best. However, because the directors had faith (or fear that they'd
lose 45 MILLION DOLLARS) for this film, so they began again from
scratch. And what we got was probably the worst thing of all time.

If this movie was a regular Hollywood flop I'd maybe forgive it. But on
account of how atrociously awful this film is in any aspect, I'd expect
it to be made by a 17 year cannabis addict who maybe knows a bit of
VFX. But this is a 45 million dollar animated film starring Charlie
Sheen and Dwayne Brady. If Clerks can be made with a 25,000 dollar
budget and Napolian Dynamite for $40,000, how is this god-awful film's
budget anywhere past $7.34! Oh I know! Charlie Sheen spent 44 of the 45
million on crack. Yeah, that'd explain this movie. They were on crack
the entire time.

Words cannot describe the amount of crap this movie sinks in. It's
terrible in every single aspect: And I mean it this time. The animation
is the equivalent of nails going into your eyeballs, the sound effects
are all crap, the plot is wonky, the characters are so bland they're
almost non-existent and it just goes on, and on, and, on, and on, x500.
This movie is terrible, almost even laughably bad. In fact, it's so
awful it IS laughably bad. I was in tears of joy that it was over,
tears of pain that I wasted my precious time on this, and tears of
laughter that something so awful even exists.

Watch it just once, and you'll quote me.
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't just a really bad movie. This is a movie that, ten to twenty
years from now, people will be debating whether or not it even existed.
Like the animated Titanic movie, it isn't just bad, it is bad in such a
way that it will be considered inconceivable that such a movie could
have even been green lit; a movie where people will see brief snippets
and wonder if it was a real movie or just somebody's entry-level CG
demo-reel.

For this reason, this is not a movie that should be watched. This is a
movie that should be thrown into the basement under lock and key for
twenty years until it becomes obscure and collectible just like
Nintendo's Virtual Boy.

I'm not kidding. I have a Dex Dogtective doll, and when I tell people
what it is and where it's from, the reaction is always the same: "Holy
****! That thing is real?!" The C.G. is terrible, the characters are
one-dimensional, the writing is asinine, the jokes make BioDome look
like Waking Ned Devine, and the talent of the voice cast is squandered
across the board.

The only thing that makes this movie even worthy of note is the
overabundance of marketing icons. But this isn't a precursor to
"Wreck-It Ralph" -- won't offer any insights as to what the life of a
marketing icon might truly be like (Charlie Tuna makes an appearance,
but nobody comments on the fact that he exists to sell the shredded
corpses of other tunas). Instead, all we get is a hollow narrative
about how buying generic brands is evil. SO BUY OUR CRAP!!! Yes, it's
that bad. Right up there with Manos: The Hands of Fate, Tentacolino,
Birdemic and The Room: A movie so bad that some people just absolutely
have to have it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so bad, it looks like something that some kid made on a
3d modeling program in his spare time and was super excited to show to
parents.

The only thing i liked is that it spawned 2 great review videos on
YouTube.

Seriously, if you spent so much money making it, you should at least
finalize the quality

I think these people should look at what some people have managed to
make on blender, a free modeling program. it does not taker a master
mind crew to make a movie that is even slightly watchable
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching the Nostalgia Critic's review of this as well as
JonTron's. It's truly some of the Critic's best work and should be
seen. He compared it to "Wreck-It Ralph". I guess those are similar to
the even more awesome Lego movie. They are films that show us that a
world of fictional characters can be made into something wonderful.
Sadly, this film shows us the complete opposite. I wouldn't quite say
it was the worst animated movie I've ever seen. I think that "honor"
goes to the 2001 animated Titanic movie. This film has credits that go
for eight minutes. That other one had credits for fourteen minutes! 

I guess it technically isn't as ugly as "Joshua And The Promised Land",
but it really is a worse film. At least that movie was less than an
hour long! I hated every minute of this. It has some of the ugliest CGI
ever created. These cartoon characters are horrible at showing
emotions. They just seem to be staring blankly all the time. All of
these characters are ugly. Even the ones who are labeled ugly are
really no worse than anyone else. This might be the reason why I'm not
into celebrity voices. Of course, anyone would regret being in this
movie. What's worse is that there's this guy called General X who
explicitly mentions how aroused he is by everything.

The villain, Lady X wears clothes that alone should have gotten this
movie a PG-13 rating. The climax is one of the most monotonous things
I've ever seen in any movie. It's just characters throwing food over
and over. It's painfully drawn out for something that's only an hour
and a half long. The movements in this film are amazingly terrible. The
facial expressions are among the worst ever created. It's good
expressions that make me love animation so much. This film makes no
sense. It features this world where food mascots go into their own
magical world or maybe it comes to life at the end of the day or it
exists on some other plane, but I don't care at all.

It is a hideous film where the cameos serve no purpose at all. I looked
in the credits and I found out there were characters like the Energizer
Bunny in this. I didn't recall seeing him so they probably just put him
in the crowd scenes for no reason and still mentioned him in the
credits. The voices are obnoxious, especially this giant nosed sneezing
guy. It's also hateful with them explicitly making Jew jokes. Wait, why
would Brand X recall the prunes that Lady X came from? That's
impossible! This is idiotic in every sense of the word and is as
terrible as every Internet critic has made it out to be. Zero Stars
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a movie. This is a pile of trash and puke in animation
history. This is literally the worst thing I've ever had the misfortune
of watching in my life. Nostalgia Critic tried to warn people. This
movie had a huge budget but none of it should go to these writers or
actors. There is nothing to be proud of in this movie. In fact, here's
all the problems with this cancer. 1. The animation looks like puke and
crap all over Minecraft backgrounds. 2. The characters are all terrible
and are not interesting in any way at all. 3. The jokes are little more
than stupid food puns or lines that make no sense 4. It manages to be
even more insulting towards stereotypes than Family Guy. 5. It throws
in random morals in the end that were never emphasized earlier to make
it seem emotional. 6. Screw the story! The voice acting doesn't save
this movie. Nothing does. Even Chuck Norris' tears can't cure this
grotesque cancer. I'd gladly give this 0 out of 10 if I could
