
Man... Whew... Wow! I'm at a loss of words to describe this high
octane, tantalizing, brain-stimulating movie. The acting: excellent.
The plot: superb. The story: great. The drama/suspense: mind numbing.

How the writers were able to put this story together so flawlessly, I
don't know, and how the director was able to actualize it, even more
amazing. There was plenty of visual stimuli as well as mental stimuli
as you waited to see the outcome of each alteration made by the main
character, Evan Treborn (Ashton Kutcher).

The movie kept me guessing and kept me at the edge of my seat, and the
writers outdid themselves by making sure the movie didn't peter out
with some lame ending. The ending was icing on the cake and it capped
what should be a classic.
<|_=00=_|>
The film has never been showed in Denmark, (where I come from) so the
press has never reviewed it. It took me 2 times to get the point but
when I realized every part of the film, I felt a huge rush! I'm sure
when I see it the 3rd time it will be an even bigger experience to me.
Every part of the film plays an important role to the main thread.
Every details have a role! The film is like reading a poem from the
18th century, where every sentence means something. The director is a
pure genius! Those who've criticized the film, should really see it
again, because you'll then notice all the details which makes this film
excellent! Without a doubt one of the best films I've seen!
<|_=00=_|>
Ashton Kutcher plays Evan Treborn, a troubled man who suffered
blackouts as a child. When he discovers a way to travel back into the
body of his past self, his time trips start to cause negative results
on his present. As he uses his powers to try to fix his past and
present, the effect escalates, creating alternate realities, many of
which are worse than the past that he is trying to change.

The Butterfly Effect is a terrific thriller that keeps you on the edge
of your seat. The previews looked very intense and the whole film is
pretty much like that. It held onto the audience right at the start and
it didn't let go until the end. The plot is nothing new but the
execution was very nice. It offers a bunch of interesting and
unpredictable twists so it's hard to see where things are going. The
whole film is like that, just one long engaging thrill ride.

The acting is okay, some people did better than others. Ashton Kutcher
is surprisingly good as Evan and he does a good job for his first
serious movie. Amy Smart is very pretty and talented and she plays
Kayleigh perfectly. The only person I didn't really like was Melora
Walters. She was pretty wooden and unconvincing. Besides for her, the
acting was pretty good and convincing. No one really did a bad job.

This film was directed and written by both Eric Bress and J. Mackye
Gruber. They did make their mistakes but the film is still pretty good.
The critics never gave this movie a chance. As soon as they heard
Ashton Kutcher was in it, they all prepared to give it thumbs down. The
movie moves around a lot that its hard to keep up but it also keeps you
paying attention. Plenty of movies have gone back in time before but
this one does it so more effectively that its almost original in that
sense. The beginning is done well, the middle it starts dragging but it
starts picking up and the ending is done extremely well. This is one of
the best films of 2004 and certainly an entertaining one. In the end,
this underrated gem is worth checking out. Rating 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie just a few hours ago and i have to say that it is
brilliantly conceived. Definately not a feel good film, but rather dark
and
tragic in every sense of the word. Yes the performances were above and
beyond etc etc... and it helped, but the film itself is an emotionally
provacative piece of work that had me feeling sad, morose and depressed.
Nonetheless i think that this makes it a very powerful film to evoke such
strong feelings while watching it. It is, for lack of a better term, very
human. On a different note there were also many complexities to do with
chaos theory inderlying the raw emotional turmoil that the characters
endure
such as time travel, alternate universes and such, but rather than rely on
these interesting ideas and theories to carry the movie, it is instead
simply used as a background setting for an incredible story. I loved it
for
what it is, but not something you see to be entertained. See this movie
but
don't take your family.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, a fair warning to EVERYONE... this movie is NOT for all
audiences. The "R" rating was very well earned in this one; you'll be
thinking about how seriously twisted the movie dares to go LONG after
you leave.

If you are mature enough to get past the fact that this movie
introduces themes that most movies nowadays are too hesitant to venture
into, this movie is a beautiful and moving piece of art.

I, like maybe most everyone that went to see it, went off of the
trailer that it was just another "going back in time to change the
future" movie, which has been done before.

This one is COMPLETELY different.

The Butterfly Effect starts actually in the early stages of each
character's life, which I think is effective. You don't really see
Ashton Kutcher or Amy Smart until about 30 minutes into the movie, and
just when you think the movie won't get any more sick and twisted...
you figure out what's ACTUALLY going on during Evan's childhood
blackouts.

Every character is built from the ground up, and they maintain true to
the plot, even if their roles get switched up a bit.

Some might say that special effects weren't really needed for this
movie, but its the special effects that make this all believable.

Every actor in this movie pulls off their parts just right (I feel
sorry for the kid that plays Tommy.. I won't throw a spoiler - see
it!), and they all come together to make a masterpiece. I was surprised
this movie got so many bad reviews.

If you throw the fact that time-travel isn't possible, and that there
will always be obvious plot holes in a movie such as this one, and are
ready for an emotional roller coaster (you'll either cry or grimace
about twice the amount of times you crack a smile), go see this
beautiful movie.

Entertainment: 9.0/10 

Overall score: 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Evan has always suffered from something that causes him to "blackout"
during times of extreme crisis. All through his childhood he would
blank out right before something drastic happens and not remember
anything that happened. Now in college, he reads through a journal he
used to write as a kid to notice that all of a sudden these harmful
memories are coming back to him. When he goes to ask his childhood
sweetheart about it she doesn't want to talk about it. He finds out
however, that he can actually tap into his past and change what
happened in these events. Unfortunately, every time he changes the
past, even in the slightest way the future is also effected. 

All scores are out of a possible 10: 

Story: 9 - VERY interesting story on psychology and how the mind
sometimes blanks out events. Also playing on the theory of Butterfly
Effect which is explained in the very beginning of the movie "If a
butterfly flaps its wings on one side of the world, the ripple effect
could cause a tempest on the other"

Acting: 8 - The lead girl in this movie did a great job. Since she was
the result of many of the alternate realities, she had to go though as
a crack whore, a sorority princess, a broken waitress and other things.
Kutcher seemed to do what he does best... playing a crazy college kid.
He's not as comedic in this role, but adds his charm in for fun. This
isn't a comedy but its got its moments. 

Music: 8 - A few good scores. On the more peaceful moments it sounds
real well. 

Sound Mix: 8 - Freaking scary! There are parts that really jump out at
you. Since one of the dramatic events in the main character's life was
dynamite going off, the sounds of him blacking out goes off like the
dynamite exploding. I'll admit, i even jumped a few times. 

Camera-work / Lighting: 7 - It suited the scenes real well. In some of
the fight scenes it gets pretty wavy for effect that does real well and
makes it more intense. 

Editing: 9 - This must have been one of the hardest things in this
movie. Since it involves alternate realities as well as time, a lot of
thought must have gone into making all world seem to make sense. Since
changing the reality effects where the main character is when he wakes
up in the present, all of his "missed" memories flood back into him.
They did really well with keeping the continuity up to par. 

Uniqueness: 8 - Its not horror. It is scary most of the time, but its
also a romance for the most part since his largest goal is making his
girlfriend happy while keeping everything else in the world tame. It
doesn't go into the sci-fi time travel stuff either which is good since
its more of a mental thing than flux capacitors and DeLoreans.

Worth: 8 - Worth seeing. Even if you aren't a fan of Punk'd or Dude
Where's My.. you'll enjoy seeing Kutcher in this role. The story is
very gripping and almost makes you review how things could have changed
in your life had some different events altered it. 

Overall Score (Not an average): 8 - Really good movie. The sound is
powerful, there's a good romance about this which should be cute for
the tearjerkers who want something new. The acting is really good for
the most part and the shock of some of the scenes will definitely grab
people. 

Reviewer's Insight (Including bias): Time travel has always been an
interest for me. BackToTheFuture, my favorite book "Replay" by Ken
Grimwood and some others. This movie isn't ALL about time travel. Its
what small events in life end up resulting to, whether it be the
biggest event in your life or a small one. Changing reality isn't truly
the answer to happiness. As they say in the movie, You Can't Play God.
Time will catch up to you no matter what you do to change it. "Change
one thing. Change everything" as the movie's caption says and it
definitely shows in every alternate reality he tries to effect.
<|_=00=_|>
What if you could go back to major junctions in your life and take the
other path? What if there's an alternate life for you somewhere, out
there, where the cumulative sum of your choices leads to a better
reality, a happier and more fulfilling existence? On the flip-side -
what if, at the end of the day, you really can't achieve a solid grip
on these things, no matter how hard you try?

A great deal of science fiction works of art have tried to approach
these meaningful questions throughout the years, all presenting many
philosophical ideas and notions as to how one man can change his own
fate, for better or for worse. In this surprisingly good sci-fi
adventure from 2004, directors Eric Bress and J. Mackye Gruber (who are
also behind the screenplay of Final Destination 2) raise all these
questions once again, but use a different angle this time around. Time
travel is not the issue here. Instead, our lead protagonist, Evan
Treborn (portrayed by Hollywood prankster Ashton Kutcher  but more on
that later) leads his whole life up until his early 20's without
knowing he has a rare medical condition that seemingly helps him shut
away traumatic incidents that occurred throughout his childhood and
adolescence years. All he remembers from these various occasions are
bizarre blackouts. But when a blast from his past comes back into his
life only to leave it ever so tragically (Kayleigh Miller, portrayed by
the lovely Amy Smart who we've since seen in films such as Just Friends
and Crank), Evan learns that he can return to those important lost
moments in his life and re-inhabit his younger body, thus changing the
present and future. However, with every shift in the past comes an
alternate present that may seem better at first, but is in fact a far
harsher reality than the original one Evan has left.

What truly touched me about this film was the essence in which it
captured the troublesome youth of my generation, that was born in the
1980's, grew up in the 1990's, and is ever since trying to adapt to the
ever changing reality in which we all live in. Here, one man tries to
alter all this, and his own personal journey is parallel in many ways
to the journey many young people go through nowadays. Part of capturing
this Generation X notion is the pop-culture presented throughout the
film. When you see the young actors and actress fall in love, fight,
and grow up real fast, it all happens amidst references to films of the
period (Se7en, etc.), outfits, 1980's technology and other devices that
fill you up with an overwhelming feeling of nostalgia and sentiment, as
if you were there yourself, living these events and going through all
these horrible/wonderful events.

Above all things, the makers of The Butterfly Effect do the
unbelievable and turn Ashton Kutcher into a good actor  a feat I
thought was unachievable at best. However, in this sci-fi epic it
appears as though anything is possible. Bottom line, it was a fresh
breath of air when I saw it, left me pondering for days, and gave me
the inspiration and write something myself after a long period of
writers block. If a film manages to be this inspirational and keep you
on the edge of your seat throughout its 113 minutes duration, all I can
do is humbly bow down in front of its makers' talents. I'm eagerly
waiting for other outings by these young folks.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie received WAY too many bad reviews. The only reason was to
PUNK Ashton Kutcher. Say what you will, Kutcher did a fair to midland
acting job here. There have been a lot worse performances on film in
much better reviewed movies. I tell you, you will NOT be disappointed
watching the Director's cut Alternate ending. It is a story of how one
action causes a series of reactions...no matter the intentions, be
careful what you wish for. This film's biggest mistake was promoting it
in the horror genre. It is NOT! It is a nice dark fantasy film, nothing
more, nothing less. There are 2 different endings, with 2 different
meanings for me. I preferred the Alternate ending in lieu of the
Theatrical ending. A great "popcorn" movie. Don't believe the
(bad)Hype!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this intriguing film last night & was quite amaze at how much I
enjoyed it.

The lead actor Ashton Kutcher, has made a name or himself on a
Television show & a few films in comedic roles.

In THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT, he gives a superb dramatic turn, I can foresee
a big future for this young actor. Very few actors have excelled in
both comedies & dramas. To name only 2, GLENN FORD & JACK LEMMON.

The female lead is played by Amy Smart, this is a multi part
performance & she too is excellent. I have heard her name but cant
place her in any film, Mark my word,We will see much more of her,

The rest of the cast are actors I did not recognize excerpt fort Eric
Stolz, who plays Amy's father, The all are excellent.

The entire production is first rate all the way through.

This is a very complicated story of imagination, some real events &
pure fantasy.

The last film of this type that impressed me this much was DONNIE
DARKO. In fact both films would make a fantastic double bill,BUT it
would be hard to sleep the night you saw both.

Like Donnie Darko, this is psychedelic fantasy, science fiction,horror
story. This type film is rare & very hard to succeed.

The Butterfly Effect succeeds on all counts.

rating ***1/2 /4 points 90/100 IMDb 8
<|_=00=_|>
The film that was underrated. The film that only appeared on US
cinemas. The Butterfly Effect.

I think Ashton Kutcher did a good job on this film, along with Andrea
Treborn. I recall that Kutcher has never made a film like this, and his
first thriller was somewhat peculiar. Not just any old thriller, this
one would keep you on the edge of your seat from the start to the
finish. A weird title however, but the tag line explains all. Change
one thing, change everything. I think this automatically gets you
thinking, and as the film proceeds, it gets harder. You like thinking?
Get this film, because you will not want to miss it!
