
The sequel to Resident Evil  in which a group of scientists and
special forces get trapped in a giant underground facility overrun with
zombies and mutants  is pretty much what you'd expect. After being
captured by the Umbrella Corporation at the end of the first film,
almost-sole-survivor Milla Jovovich (the only supermodel in the world
who you can take seriously as an action heroine) wakes up in an
abandoned laboratory in Raccoon City to find that the zombie-animating
"t-virus" has spread to the surface. Half the city are already
zombified and killing the other half, and Umbrella Corporation has
sealed off the city limits and is planning to "sanitise" the area.
Hooking up with a rag-tag group of survivors, Jovovich makes a deal
with a rogue Umbrella scientist who promises to get them out of town as
long as they rescue his missing daughter who's hiding somewhere in the
ruins. Meanwhile Umbrella has its own plans for the lovely Miss Milla,
involving a seven-foot armour-clad mutant called the Nemesis who's
using the infested city as a training ground. Much
shooting/fighting/exploding ensues, and - just like in the first film -
the mysterious cliffhanger ending leaves things wide open for another
sequel.

Probably because it's based on a Japanese video game, this movie isn't
afraid to embrace the clichés that Hollywood's spent the last decade or
so trying to avoid. Lurching zombies, machine gun-toting monsters,
smarmy suit-wearing villains, hard-as-nails soldiers and a wisecracking
streetwise black dude are all essential ingredients, as well as not one
but TWO sexy ass-kicking heroines. While Jovovich rides in to save the
day on a motorcycle and carries so many guns it's a wonder she doesn't
fall over, Sienna Guillory (as tough bitch cop Jill Valentine) has the
dubious honour of performing various athletic action sequences in a
miniskirt and boob tube. Am I complaining? Hell no.

To be honest, it's really quite refreshing to see a movie like this in
this day and age. Like the timelessly cheesy horror/action flicks of
John Carpenter, the Resident Evil franchise throws realism and
political correctness to the wind and just has fun pitting Pretty Girls
With Big Guns against Ugly Monsters With Big Teeth. Be honest  unless
you're a metrosexual poseur or a card-carrying member of the PC Police,
you probably love this stuff as much as I do.
<|_=00=_|>

Following the success of the 2002 adaptation from video game to film
that was 'Resident Evil', comes its tantalizingly-trailered sequel,
'Resident Evil: Apocalypse'. I have to say, I was entranced by the
trailer of this film. I seriously thought that this film had the
potential to rise above 'Mortal Kombat' (1995) and 'Resident Evil' as
the best cinematic event to spawn from a video game. 'Apocalypse'
doesn't do everything wrong, but it certainly doesn't do everything
right. 

Let's start with a brief synopsis. Firstly, this film picks up
literally days after the first drops us off. 'Apocalypse' opens with a
rehashed explanation of what we learned about the two main characters
in the original, Alice (Milla Jovovich) and Matt Addison (Eric Mabius).
Again, we are told that this Umbrella Corporation is an international
super-power and that Alice is (or more accurately was) the head of
security in an underground research facility dubbed "The Hive", which
harbored research and specimens pertaining to biological weaponry.
After that, we are treated to the scientists who wheeled Addison away
at the closure of 'Evil', opening the zombie-infested annals of "The
Hive". Immediately before the audience 'knows' what happens (its pretty
obvious and is given away in the final shots of the first 'RE') we
transition into a militaristic evacuation of important personnel
associated with Umbrella Corp. After a few assorted events that do (and
simultaneously do not) move the plot line (a 'do not' being the
lead-scientist asking how bad the situation is). After this, we are
introduced to nearly a half-dozen other characters, including a
renegade police officer (Sienna Guillory), the remaining members of an
elite task force (Oded Fehr, Zack Ward), a VERY stereotypical Black man
(Mike Epps) and a hulking creature (which, if you paid attention to the
first 'RE', you would be aware of its appearance) that totes both a
rocket-launcher and a hand-held chain gun named the "Nemesis". 

As far as performances go, the aforementioned actors and actresses do
well with the material that they are given. Guillory has Helen of Troy
(not from the film 'Troy') on her resume, as Jovovich has Joan of Arc,
Fehr has the mummy hunter, Ardeth Bay from the 'Mummy' series and Epps
is credible in several comedies. There is no real emotion in the
script, so the viewers really can't ask for any emotion from the actors
(sadly true). 

That is where 'Apocalypse' stumbles, and in many places, falls on it's
face.

The plot is paper thin with nearly no real complications for the
audience until the last ten minutes (which is a near-complete turn
around from the original, which actually evoked SOME thought from the
audience). It is basically unleash zombies on the city and shoot 'em
up. The small sub-plots really vary from little to no relevance in the
story whatsoever. It is pretty predictable that there is some kind of
'oh no, my friend was bitten and eventually, I'll have to kill him just
before he bites me' situation, and the big action/set pieces are
blatantly set up. The characters are thinner than the plot, with their
arcs being straighter than a steel arrow. Alice begins the movie as an
ass-kicking femme fatal, and finishes the film being...oh, you guessed
it, an ass-kicking femme fatal. Jill Valentine (Guillory) is another
one of these masculinely tough females, although sans Alice's super
powers. The only real life that is brought to the script is through the
epitome of black stereotypes, played by Mike Epps. It was sadly ironic,
however that my favorite bit of 'Apocalypse' involved a reference to
another video game franchise. 

Again, 'RE: Apocalypse' is not completely bad. Although few, it has its
moments. Mike Epps has his funny lines and his one encounter with the
Nemesis brought laughs from the entire audience, which was something
needed in the film. The Nemesis was done well a majority of the time
(although there is a bit where the big oaf crashes through a wall and
his head piece actually shifts visibly on the actor's shoulders) and
makes a formidable villain for a good margin of the film (although his
closure is a bit weak). Many of the action sequences had great
potential...but the majority of those action scenes were fast-cut, much
like 'AvP', so much so that it was very hard at moments to see exactly
what was happening in the shot. 

'Apocalypse' suffices much more as an action movie than it does as a
horror film, and it struggles to keep interest, even for someone who
has faithfully played the video games. I will be glad to admit,
though...'Apocalypse' has the BIGGEST, most unexpected scare of 2004. I
won't say when or where...but I am glad to have experienced it.
'Apocalypse' isn't exactly worth all eight dollars of your admission
fee, but it doesn't make a bad Saturday afternoon matinee...6/10.

<|_=00=_|>
*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*

Lethal megababe Alice, (Milla Jovovich), is back. The Hive gets
reopened for some reason. The zombies take advantage of the human's
blunder and pour out into Racoon City. Alice and another hot chick
decide to bring the war to the zombies. The rest of the movie is one
long fight scene with zombie dogs, slobbering creatures and a big
monster with a rocket launcher all wanting to waste the killer babe
squad.

While "Resident Evil 2" is light on plot, it is heavy on kills,
explosions and various other forms of mayhem. I definitely felt I got
my money's worth. There are really only two differences between this
movie and the original "Resident Evil". One, this movie introduces a
new monster, the Nemesis. It's a big monster with bad teeth wearing an
overcoat and wielding a rocket launcher. The other difference is that
they added another hot woman to the zombie killing mix. Alice needed
some babe backup. Overall, I was pleased with this one. It's worth a
look.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood is known for its summertime action "flicks", and recent
action films such as The Matrix began to show a hopeful turn towards a
trend of thoughtful plots and interesting stories. Unfortunately, the
large success of Resident Evil: Apocalypse may very well be the
deathblow to this promising new trend. In a sense, the title speaks for
itself; Resident Evil: Apocalypse may very well be the apocalypse of
intelligent action movies.

After a new virus breaks out in a large industrialized city, citizens
begin mutating into cannibalistic, flesh-eating zombies. The Umbrella
Corporation, consisting of the people most directly responsible for the
outbreak, takes measures to quarantine the city, turning it into a
horrific sanitarium. The story follows several characters as they
attempt to survive and escape the city with the help of an unseen ally
who keeps contact with them from outside the city. Things further
complicate when "Nemesis", the movie's biggest, toughest monster,
arrives for the sole purpose of killing just about everything he
perceives as a threat.

The plot of Resident Evil: Apocalypse is, perhaps, the single worst
piece of writing recently played out before the eyes of unfortunate
movie fans. From the very beginning, the story begs questions that are
never answered: who gave the Umbrella Corporation a building permit for
a gigantic wall that would circle the city and with which they could,
at a moment's notice, lock everyone inside? Why does Alice come
crashing into a church through a stained-glass window, on a motorcycle,
"armed to the teeth" with weaponry, to rescue the protagonists with
perfect timing, despite the fact that she has never met them before and
was, in the previous scene, walking around in the street with only a
shotgun and no motorcycle at all? These and many more mind-boggling
questions are completely ignored; the person who was in charge of this
film's continuity should never work in Hollywood again. In fact,
Resident Evil: Apocalypse has more plot holes than moldy Swiss cheese.
However, even when ignoring the numerous plot holes -- which is almost
an impossibility -- the story itself is still laughable, revolving
partly around an insipid "fight for survival" that seems to rely on the
main group splitting up and one of the subgroups being brutally
slaughtered for no good reason, with the other part being about Alice
(a character invented by the script-writer, as she was never in the
game it is very loosely-taken from) and her relationship with the
monster "Nemesis". Surprisingly, the director managed to craft a story
that is significantly less interesting the one presented in the video
game version. To cap off all the "excitement", the movie reaches its
climax a full fifteen minutes before the end of the film! After a
handful of survivors have escaped, Alice is caught and put in a lab,
where she not only manages to escape, but also to manifest psychic
powers while quipping off several lines that were used to advertise the
movie in commercials. What was the purpose of this 15-minute epilogue?
To set up the next movie in the series - a completely unnecessary task,
as the film has already made it clear that there is absolutely no help
for the next sequel in terms of quality. In a way, it could be said
that the one thing the plot truly accomplished was setting the stage
for even more cinematic fodder in the future.

The acting was not bad, and, in general, was as good as it could have
been, given the material the actors had to work with. Although Alice is
mildly interesting (do largely to her reflections) and well played by
Milla Jovovich, the rest of the characters were mostly stale
archetypes. The most blatant example is the character of L.J., played
by actor Mike Epps, who embodies every "black" stereotype that is
popular today. This character's only true purpose is comic relief, and
to that respect, he does it dryly.

The cinematography offers a wide variety of different camera shots, as
well as providing a constant supply of "eye candy". In what is easily
the highlight of the film, Resident Evil: Apocalypse shows some
impressive-looking stunts, such as a scene of Alice running down the
side of a sky scraper with either the intent to kill, or the intent to
break her legs. Either way, the scene was a joy ride for the vision.
Truthfully, the only badly shot scenes that come to mind are the blurry
scene (unnecessary, ugly, and pointless), and the climatic fight scene
at the end (badly cut and confusing). Overall, though, the
cinematography was decently good, which is likely the cause for this
film making so much money in the box office.

The setting was exactly what you would expect for an apocalyptic zombie
movie - a big city with lots of undead people. The sets maintained a
Gothic look throughout, and few scenes took place in daylight.
Thankfully, the lighting was very well done, so the film maintained a
dark, night-time look while simultaneously allowing the viewers to
perfectly see all that was happening. Sets based on real buildings,
such as schools and police stations, all looked exactly as they should.
Resident Evil: Apocalypse had a big budget, and that fact is made
apparent by the great sets and props.

Unfortunately, nothing saves the movie from its horrible plot. A plot
should provide any movie with its base, and with a plot so holey and
incoherent, everything that could have made Resident Evil: Apocalypse
good simply falls apart. Despite the big budget, some reasonably
well-known actors, and a license and subject-matter with a cult
following, nothing can gloss over the essential flaws that keep this
movie from any kind of greatness. People who prefer to see mindless
exaggerated action sequences, devoid of any decent plot, will likely
enjoy Resident Evil: Apocalypse. However, those interested in
intelligent, well-written stories will do well to look elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
The sound effects, the fast paced action, the blur of violence, the
plot are provided good exposure in this sequel, sequel. This
entertaining horror-plenty of action thriller flick was an above
average horror genre with a little for everyone one who likes these
movies. There is the tender, emotional rescue, the comedic relief, the
unanticipated deaths (so to speak), and twist at the end. This movie
captures the titillating show of reveal leg, and kickass martial art
moves, the evil scientists, and strong female leads. While the movie
suffers from a few plot weaknesses, the fantasy, video nature of this
movie allows for some flexibility. The zombie-like creatures seem to
fade some in an odd illogical way (for the script's sake)...people seem
to survive by luck in some cases or die in other cases (as guess just
as in real life). Some of the movie is contrived, some some characters
obvious set up for oblivion with recourse to rational sanity. All in
all, this movie did its horror and thrills more and bigger and
whizzier. Seven out of Ten Stars.

On second viewing in 2017, movie now seems overly chaotic and the
contrived storyline is much more bothersome.
<|_=00=_|>
After having seen Resident Evil god knows how many times, and being
pretty psyched for the sequel, I finally got to see it, and on the
premiere night, too. Of course, I knew that the director of the first
RE, Paul W. S. Anderson, wasn't doing this, since he was busy making
his dream project, Aliens Vs Predator. Luckily, I can cope with changes
like that... as long as the change isn't devastating. For this movie,
however, it's hard to tell... maybe the mediocre attempts at scaring
the audience and providing shocks was Anderson's fault, as he wrote the
script, but it may be the new director, first-timer Alexander Witt,
who's responsible. Let me say this upfront; I, as many others who
enjoyed the first, really liked the ending, the whole foreshadowing
thing, and, thankfully, the film picks up exactly where the first one
left off. Actually, it goes a little further back, to show us exactly
what happened before Alice woke up. The plot is decent, about as good
as it gets when it's Paul W. S. Anderson writing it. It doesn't drag...
heh, it doesn't drag... heck, it doesn't even leave the slightest
chance for it to drag, as it's constantly moving. The movie never
allows the audience to catch their breath; apparently, someone(I'm
guessing Anderson or Witt) has never heard of the danger of overdoing
action sequences. For anything (at all) to be good, entertaining,
thrilling, whatever... there needs to be what is commonly referred to
as 'buffers'. Without those nice little talky-talky scenes in-between,
heck, maybe even a dash of good old-fashioned character development,
the action just ends up being trite. And that's pretty much what
happens here. They try to squeeze as much action into every single
frame as possible, and it ends up annoying the audience rather than
exciting. The director also has a horrible habit of blurring the image
whenever there are more than five zombies on-screen, apparently to (I
guess) cover up a bad job on makeup... or something to that effect. If
the first had too much make up and such, this has too little. The
acting is decent enough. Milla Jovovich gives the same good performance
that she usually does. The rest of the cast are acceptable. The
characters are mostly clichés and stereotypes. Of course, by mostly I
mean almost 90% of the cases. You got the stupid reporter who just
wants to make a story out of all of this, despite her being in obvious
danger; The bad-ass cop who's suspended but still takes her duty deadly
serious; the half-witted pathetic guy who's obviously only there for
comic relief... actually, scratch that last one, as he was actually
pretty darn funny. For once the person who's supposed to be there for
comic relief works, instead of just being the *most*(or even worse;
least) laughable character. The special effects were well done, but not
spectacular. Definitely not the best I've seen. The action was good,
but really over-the-top. The scenes with the Nemesis range between
being some of the best action in the movie to being some of the most
pathetic and smirk-inspiring scenes. The cinematography is nothing
special. The film introduced an unnecessary amount of characters, most
of whom are just fodder for the zombies or Nemesis anyway. The showdown
between Alice and Nemesis was somewhat pathetically staged, and
probably would have seemed out of place, hadn't the rest of the film
been of the same quality(honestly, it seemed like a video-game... and
while I am quite a big fan of them, I'm considerably more interested in
playing them than watching them). That big ol' hunk o' biologically
engineered walking death was simultaneously underdeveloped(for what
they had him/it do) and overexposed. The film is noisy and loud, but
not as loud as the first film, and while the sound is often horribly
overdone, it doesn't distract as much as several other big action hits.
The film is also less loud when it comes to the soundtrack; it was nice
to have some change from the one-note *loud* heavy metal from the first
film. All in all, a pretty entertaining flick, but out of your mind
much faster than it got in(and that's saying a lot, believe me). If you
liked the first, are a big fan of one or more of the actors, or you
just have nothing better to do for 90 minutes, give it a shot. It kept
me watching through the end, and, despite a few disappointments, kept
my interest as well. It just didn't stay fresh in my head for more than
about fifteen minutes after the credits started, which is very little
for a film with so much going on in it all the time. I recommend it
only to big fans of the first or of Milla Jovovich. I suppose big fans
of Paul W. S. Anderson(they must exist, somewhere) will probably enjoy
it too. I will say that most who liked the first will probably like
this as well, but possibly a little less due to the lesser directing.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so bad I couldn't finish it. Normally I am patient with
bad movies, hoping that the ending would salvage them. But RE2 is one
exception. The script is atrocious, clichéd, or just plain juvenile.
Character development is non-existent, so the scene where the two main
female characters meet for the first time was quite appropriate: Jill
asks Alice, "Who the **** are you?" I kept asking the same question
throughout. This new character of Jill was probably the biggest mistake
here. There just is not enough room for the two female characters to
co-exist.

Bad acting (which to me translates to bad directing) is commonplace in
RE2. Case in point is when Alice, after blasting away some zombies,
spins her two guns, a la John Wayne, before putting them back in the
holsters. I laughed out loud at that ridiculous scene. From that point
on, I just couldn't take the movie seriously.

What a waste of money (I actually bought the DVD, shame, shame, because
I liked the first RE). Don't make the same mistake, unless you wanna to
be annoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
Please excuse my short outburst but this movie is utterly awful and
bares practically no resemblance to the videogames, especially in terms
of style and action.

I'll try and re-elaborate on this. Resident Evil Apocalypse is nothing
but TRASH. Pure, post-Matrix trash. The first movie was vomit inducing,
resulting in pulsing headaches and dissolved moral. I had a small pinch
of hope for the sequel, namely because the hack known as Paul W.S.
Anderson wasn't directing (he was too busy murdering FOX's prized
franchises) so the directing duties was given to first-timer Alexander
Witt. I have come to the conclusion that Witt was just simply
Anderson's alias.

The director just copied and pasted what Anderson achieved in the first
film, namely rapid editing, a hard rock soundtrack and YAWN, kung-fu
melee. The end result was simply a hacked attempt at copying a previous
hacked attempt. Was Witt pressured by the studio to copy another Hack's
style? The acting. Well, Milla Jovovvovovovocichs hams up the screen
time a plenty. Serena Guillory looks quite hot in her Jill outfit but
resembles a hooker for the undead. The rest of the cast are just
equally as bland. And Nemesis, oh Jesus Crumbcakes. How could you feck
up such a powerful, iconic character from the videogames? Easy, get
Anderson involved. They MADE Nemesis a complete pussy. And why did he
go after Milla? The whole point of the Nemesis in the storyline was to
hunt down S.T.A.R.S. Members so why was Milla a hunted target? She has
bugger all to do with them. She's just screen fodder.

And the final showdown. LAME. A fist-fight between Milla and the
Nemesis, and she fricking BEATS HIM????? And then Nemesis dies by
having a helicopter crash land on him? Anyone who played the RE3 game
will know what a complete cop-out that was.

If you're a fan of the game, AVOID THIS FILM. But, if you've never
played the videogames, enjoy post-matrix filth and into new culture
crap and don't give a damn about the quality of films, just want a
cheap thrill and all.........AVOID THIS FILM AS WELL!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie concerns about living dead in Racoon City where a lethal
virus outbreaks and it infiltrates into human body creating the Zombies
after to bite themselves . Milla Jovovich escapes and she's helped by
an action woman (Sienna Guillory) and a soldier (Oded Feher) and a
journalist(Sandrine Holt). They have to confront several Zombies
starving of meat and a nasty and evil Corporation chief.

The film begins as ¨Omega man¨ movie , as a city without people ,
totally uninhabited . After that , Milla Jovovich will find a motley
group at a church where she'll fight against weird creatures and later
with Zombies that a mutant virus has transformed into flesh eating .
It's a good horror film , made in fast moving and is neither boring ,
nor tiring , but entertaining . From the beginning until the end the
action pace is nonstop . In the picture there are action, terror,
suspense , creepy atmosphere and a little bit of gore . The motion
picture takes parts of ¨Alien¨ and ¨Dawn of the dead¨ and of course :
¨Resident Evil I¨ . Special effects ,FX , are first rate, they have
been made by make-up and computer generator.

The film is based on a popular video game and obtained a lot of success
such as the first part . The yarn will appeal to terror, gore and video
games fans. Rating : 6,5/10 . Above average .
<|_=00=_|>
Badly scripted, acted and shot. Everything feels really rushed,
especially the pacing of the shots... one minute a character is
fighting off a zombie, only 3 seconds later he's 40 paces down the
street... it seems the director really liked the matrix but had no idea
what he was doing... the cut scenes in the video game are better
directed.

The plot has been rewritten from the games, but instead of refining it,
they have taken the games premise and just added ludicrous plot points.
The video game was better written, and that's saying something.

Spoilers BELOW ****

By the end of the film the story has gotten so dumb, The main bad guy
of the film, "Nemesis" becomes good (?!), and the main character Alice
has strangely gained mind powers and she seems to be able to kill
people just by looking at them!!?!?!?!

Utterly stupid... don't waste your time with it.
