
Okay, so a lot of people are going to tear this film apart. And they
are right to do so; after all, it certainly isn't a very intelligent
film. In fact, it is a relatively idiotic film. But it's also a fun
film.

When Jay Chandrasekhar stepped up to make a film about this old TV
show, obviously he looked at the series and said, "Well, it's not very
intelligent, is it? But I can see the appeal. After all, it is a whole
lot of fun."

And that's how he made the film. He took a fun show from the early 80's
and made it into a fun show for the new millennium. Don't go see this
movie if you're (God forbid) expecting to see sultry Jessica Simpson
displaying an IQ bigger than her cup size. Or if you're hoping that
Johnny Knoxville will be playing an environmentally-minded action hero.
After all, the guy's big break was a show called Jackass...that should
tell you something.

Folks, we're going back to Hazzard County. Moonshine, dirt track
auto-racing, and lots and lots of inbreeding. Is any of this sinking in
yet?

This is just a show about a family of bootleggers who have a really
fast car and fight some of the dumbest criminal minds East of the Mason
Dixon line. If you want something brilliant, this isn't it. But if you
want to sit back, laugh, and have a good time, head on down to Hazzard
County, where the girls wear short shorts, the moonshine flows like
honey, and you can do your hot cousin if you want to.

Also, expect some cameos from the boys of Broken Lizard, and a
throwback to Chandrasekhar's other big hit "Super Troopers". After all,
the comedy is in the same style.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge fan of the Dukes of Hazzard TV show. And I really enjoyed
this flick. I enjoyed myself here a lot more than I did with other
summer blockbusters.

It's funny hearing people rail against this movie with excuses like
"lame plot" and "it's much cruder than the show." Does ANYONE remember
the crudeness of the humor in the pilot episode? Daisy makes incest
jokes and Bo says that Luke had probably fathered half the kids in the
orphanage. The only reason it was cleaned up is because it changed to
and earlier time slot.

And as far as the plot goes. It was the perfect Dukes plot. In fact as
a remake it probably stays truer to the source material than any TV
show that has migrated to the big screen.

While Sean William Scott and Johnny Knoxville aren't EXACTLY like their
small screen versions, they do a great job and work very well together.
I wasn't too keen on Burt's Boss Hogg though. And I would have like a
little bit more incompetence from Sheriff Roscoe. In the movie Roscoe
is a little... scary.

And who didn't have a smile on their face as the General Lee is racing
through the streets of Atlanta and the back roads of Hazzard?

Folks, allow yourself to enjoy a movie that is just an excuse for
nostalgia, bikinis and car chases, you won't be sorry. It's just a
great dumb movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Having read some of the other comments here I was expecting something
truly awful but was pleasantly surprised. REALITY CHECK: The original
series wasn't that good. I think some people remember it with more
affection than it deserved but apart from the car chases and Daisy
Duke's legs the scripts were weak and poorly acted. The Duke boys were
too intelligent and posh for backwood hicks, the shrunken Boss Hog was
too cretinous to be evil and Rosco was just hyper throughout every
screen moment. It's amazing the series actually lasted as long as it
did because it ran out of story lines during the first series.

Back to the movie. If you watch this film in it's own right, not as a
direct comparison to however you remember the TV series, then it's not
bad at all. The real star is of course the General Lee. The car chases
and stunts are excellent and that's really what D.O.H. is all about.
Johnny Knoxville is his usual eccentric self and along with Seann
William Scott as Cousin Bo the pair make this film really funny in a
hilarious Dumb-And-Dumber sort of way the TV series never achieved. The
lovely Jessica Simpson is a natch as Miss Daisy, Burt Reynolds makes a
much improved Boss Hog and M.C. Gainey makes a believably nasty Rosco
P. Coltrane, the way he always should have been.

If you don't like slapstick humour and crazy car stunts then you
wouldn't be watching this film anyway because you should know what to
expect. Otherwise if you want an entertaining car-action movie with a
few good laughs that's not too taxing on the brain then go see this
enjoyable romp with an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
I had low expectations when going to see this film, so I wasn't
disappointed: it was a lot better than I expected.

A lot of the jokes are corny and the plot is weak, but I have to say
that the audience I saw it with thought it was hilarious. There was a
lot of laughing throughout the film, some of it at Willie Nelson's
terrible jokes (and he has a stack of them), some at the various
situations and some at the antics of the Duke cousins. I was in need of
cheering up and had a good cackle at this. A lot of the driving
sequences were highly enjoyable.

Not Oscar winning material, but a good laugh. Don't take it seriously
and you may enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>
Why take a show that millions of us watched and loved as children and
make a complete joke of it? They ask why Hollywood isn't making the
money it used to. Because they put out garbage and pay actors huge
amounts of money to be garbage men and ask us to pay $10 to see their
garbage. The TV show was what it was, good people in bad situations
where the good IL' boys come out on top. It wasn't Gone with the Wind
but it was fun. This movie is garbage! Hollywood can't come up with
anything original so they take something that was good and ruin it for
some $$$$. I only hope that this movie makes 10x's less than it cost to
make. The only one's to have any fun with this crap are the guys who
got to drive the General Lee. The audience is the victim.

Don't see it, watch the reruns of the TV show instead. They still hold
up 20 years later.
<|_=00=_|>
Film makeovers of old TV shows seems to be the norm in Hollywood these
days, but this disrespectful, toilet humor,
do-you-kiss-your-mother-with-that-mouth foul language, rip-off is a
blatant middle finger to all Dukes of Hazzard fans both north and south
of the Mason-Dixon Line. From the opening sequence of Bo and Luke Duke
making a moonshine run for Uncle Jesse (no shine running in the show
because it would put the boys back in jail as a parole violation) to
the closing sequence of Uncle Jesse smoking weed with the Governor of
Georgia (Uncle Jesse was the moral compass despite his previous
moonshining ways) this disappointing waste of film is an open faced
insult. I can't tell you how many parents I saw get up and remove their
children from the theater within the first 15 minutes of the movie when
they realized that they had been horribly deceived. The Original Dukes
of Hazzard was a family show with basic moral values. The Original
Dukes of Hazzard was a kid safe, Hemi powered, show of fun that parents
didn't have to worry about teaching their kids George Carlin's seven
words. I have read reviews stating that the show and the movie are
nothing but racist. Those commits might be correct about the movie.
Those commits are ABSOLUTELY incorrect about the show. The show, if
anything, was about how to get along and be friends with ANYONE.
Hollywood has finally come out in the open about their disdain for
those of us, Yankee, Rebel, or otherwise, who still believe in honor,
loyalty, trust, family, and doing the right thing even if it is not the
popular thing. Hollywood has finally brought to light its belief that
those of us in the heartland are stupid, uneducated, beer swilling,
foul mouthed, trash that will buy any piece of garbage they are willing
to sell. Prove the Hollywood Elitist that they are wrong. DO NOT GO SEE
THIS MOVIE. Boycott the sponsors. Fill Warner Bros. email and snail
mail boxes with complaints that we don't appreciate them destroying one
of the greatest T.V. shows of all time. Save your money and buy the
DVD's of the original show, but whatever you doÂ… DO NOT GO SEE THIS
MOVIE
<|_=00=_|>
...then you'd better not watch this movie. They've completely ruined
the premise of the show. In the movie the Duke boys are idiots, Daisy
is trampy, Roscoe is sinister, Boss Hogg is capable, Uncle Jessie is a
criminal...only Cooter and Flash are true to the original characters.
At least Enos is kinda close.

At one point they open the doors to get into the General Lee -- nuff
said.

The original show may not have been great TV, but it was entertaining
and the characters made sense. This movie is like Dumb & Dumber meets
the Simple Life.
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard that the Dukes of Hazzard was going to be remade with
current actors and a solid script, I was like, "alright, I'll give it a
chance, it's not going to be better than the first, but we'll see what
happens." Well, I saw what happened. I saw a great late 70's/80's show
that was a classic, basically humiliated by Hollywood. It's so sad to
see that Hollywood scriptwriters cannot come up with something original
these days. They are seeming to take a great show that had a great
target audience, and try to "REMAKE" the classic show. HEADS UP
Hollywood... IT AIN'T WORKIN!!!! Anyway, more about the show. I think
they could have casted a better actor than Sean William Scott (Stiffler
from American Pie) to play Bo. I'm sure that John Schneider is
definitely disappointed with how his character was portrayed and taken
advantage of. Also, Get for real, Johnny Knoxville, as Luke Duke. How
low can you go?? A crappy jackass actor to play lovable Luke. This
sickens me. Also, I'll give Jessica Simpson is a beautiful woman, but
her acting sucks. Catherine Bach who played the original Daisy, was
smart, sexy, strong, opinionated and a good IL' southern girl. She was
every little girls role model growing up! (I owned the doll and the
Jeep - thank you very much!!!) Anyway, Jessica Simpson played a smart
ass, 2-bit slut as Daisy Duke. Daisy never was blonde. Why did they
have to cast her. Jessica Alba would have played a great Daisy Duke.
She can speak with a great southern accent, and she is gorgeous, and
would have done a wonderful job. Anyway, I'd like to say that this
movie blew something fierce. I feel like I got ripped off by paying
$8.50 for tickets, and they should refund my money. If you like the
Dukes of Hazzard (the original series) don't see this movie. It'll just
upset you. CMT (country music television) plays the reruns of the Dukes
all the time later at night. So set your TIVO's and go with the real
thing, not the imitation on the big screen in Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
what is wrong with you people, if you weren't blown away by the action
car sequences and jessica Simpsons hot body then you are majorly
screwed in the head. Of course the film isn't a masterpiece, i don't
think it was aiming to be. It was fun and funny, i never watched the
show when i was younger, i only recently saw one episode, and when i
watched the movie, i felt it had the same kind of atmosphere. The movie
seats were practically shaking, and the car sequences were good because
it didn't bore me and drag out like some of the scenes in 2fast
2furious. and jessica Simpson is plain hot, i just wish they had used
her more in the action sequences. All in all, i had a hell of a time
watching this and i would go and see it again soon and i will buy it on
DVD. People, enjoy it for what it is.
<|_=00=_|>
In Hazzard County, Georgia, cousins Bo and Luke Duke (Scott, Knoxville)
and their cousin Daisy Duke (Jessica Simpson) run moonshine made by
their Uncle Jesse (Willie Nelson) while avoiding the local authority,
Boss Hog (Burt Reynolds). Their problems with the Boss are only
beginning as they learn he's been plotting to strip mine the town for
valuable ores found below it.

I have never seen the TV show and after watching the movie, I'm not
going to start any time soon. I like stupid comedies but this one
didn't offer many laughs. It was a pretty dull picture with the first
hour being really hard to sit through. The second part was a little
better but this film was still a missed opportunity. The film focused
on Bo and Luke way too much. The characters in general weren't very
interesting and the actors portraying them didn't do a very good job.

The acting wasn't very good. I wasn't expecting it to be good in the
first place but none of the leads were very funny. Seann William Scott
and Johnny Knoxville both give below average performances. The latter
was pretty good as Stifler but he tries way too hard here. The latter
just seems to be looking for a paycheck and nothing else. Jessica
Simpson isn't known for her acting nor is she really known for her
singing. She's famous for having her own reality show and for saying
really dumb things. She is pretty but she's a weak actor. It doesn't
matter though because she doesn't really appear in the movie and the
character she plays isn't complex or anything. Willie Nelson also has a
minor role and he doesn't do anything special.

The screenplay was written by John O'Brien and he made two films prior
to the Dukes of Hazzard. The first one was Cradle to the Grave, which
was okay. The second one was Starsky and Hutch which was pretty funny.
He doesn't do a good job here though as the story is a mess. He also
forgot to add jokes and a few other things that would have made this
film work better. The movie is also pretty long for a comedy. Okay, 106
minutes isn't exactly long but it feels so much longer because there's
very little humor in the first hour. I think comedies should be kept
short or else they have to find a lot of material to cover the entire
running time. The Dukes of Hazzard barely has enough funny gags to keep
it going for thirty minutes let alone 106 minutes. The car sequences
were average and they don't save an already troubled film. In the end,
Dukes of Hazzard may appeal to a few people but most people will
probably find it dull and it's better if you just skip it. Rating 4/10
