
Looking over previous comments here, it is clear that this is a very
polarizing movie experience, one that seems to put "Syriana" to shame
in that realm. Director Rob Marshall has taken a best selling novel and
turned out a feature film that it appears some people love and some
absolutely hate. Count me in the first category, but allow me to
indulge the critics, too.

First, this isn't a typical Hollywood film. Despite popular western
misconceptions about Geishas, there's no sex, almost no violence and
beyond that, there's nearly two and a half hours of women's problems
that many men may find hard to relate to. This is not "Desperate
Housewives" or even "All my Children." This is about deceit, treachery
and rivalries as much as it is about a little girl who gets sold into
bondage by her impoverished Japanese family. Its also about a lifelong
search for love in a society in which people apparently can't just step
up and make frank declarations of devotion to one another. This movie
is in a word "complicated" and that is going to turn some American
movie goers off.

But not all Asian film fans are raving about this movie either, some
thinking it is a very superficial look at Japnese customs and others
incensed that a movie that's about an important Japanese tradition
should star three Chinese actresses. I cannot comment on either topic,
since I know little or nothing about Japanese tradition and I don't
know why Ziyi Zhang, Michelle Yoeh and Gong Li were cast. They have
been seen before by American audiences, but are hardly film stars in
this country, so it wasn't as if they were going to draw in tons of
fans on their names alone.

The only thing I can think of is, all three are fine actresses and they
more than proved that in this film. If Gong Li does not get a best
supporting actress nomination, there's no justice. And Zhang should
probably get a crack at best actress for her work, as well.

All three just light up the screen.

But, I can understand in this age of political correctness, how some
would be offended by the casting and how others might complain about
the handling of the Japanese subject matter.

All I can say is, movie makers face trade offs and one is either
targeting your film to a mass audience (and in America, that means a
generally poorly educated audience) or "narrow casting" your film to
people very well acquainted with the topic who will swoop down on any
flaw. But that, when dealing with a topic like Japanese geisha culture,
is a pretty small audience in America, too small to generate the kind
of box office a film like this needs to pull in to pay for itself. From
a purely Anglo, American, unschooled in Japanese culture standpoint, I
think Marshall made good decisions. I hope he has not slighted Japanese
culture too much, but I think he has made a suspenseful, captivating,
enchanting film that does something a lot of films haven't in recent
years.

He gave us a complex central character we can pull for throughout the
film and for that, I thank him.

"Memoirs of a Geisha" ranks among my five best films of the year thus
far, and deserves a best picture nomination.
<|_=00=_|>
I lived in Japan for 3 years and I loved the book, rich with visual
imagery. I went to the see the movie with a good deal of trepidation,
convinced that they were going to butcher it and sex it up to appeal to
American audiences. Instead I sat spellbound in my seat as I watched
the images that Arthur Golden has created in my mind with words years
before, play themselves out on the screen in front of me. Every shot,
ever scene, every tiny detail was just beautiful. I literally did not
look away from the screen the entire time. The acting wasn't
spectacular. I think they could have found somebody better to play
Sayuri. The children were all wonderful. The stand-out actress by far
was Gong Li as Hatsumomo. The villain had the best opportunities to
show her skills as a thespian. The plot stuck very closely to the book.
They eliminated the scenes that they needed to in the interest of time,
but they didn't try to take any shortcuts or speed up the plot. I
really felt like the story was played out beginning to end without
sacrificing any of the meat. You'll read a lot of reviews in the coming
weeks praising the gorgeous photography. Every word is true. Words like
"lush" and "exquisite" only begin to do it justice. I've never had the
experience of being transported to another time by a movie in quite
this way.
<|_=00=_|>
Can a group of American men and Chinese actresses render the world of a
Japanese geisha? The answer is yes, with stunning beauty Â… and
regrettable flaws.

Truth be told, this movie was not as bad as its trailer led me to
expect it to be. It had a story to tell (although it crumbles in the
end),images to show, and material to present. There were ample displays
of exquisite beauty -- the trailing tails of silk kimonos, the subtle
allure of hand gestures, and the captivating scene of kabuki dance
theater ... 

On the other hand, the American director was not able to pull the
Japanese out of Chinese actresses. (This movie was so crowded by famous
Chinese idols that I found myself inadvertently searching for Joan Chen
among the cast.) To be fair, all three main actors (Gong Li in
particular) show strong performances that made me sympathetic to Rob
Marshall's choices. However, they remain utterly Chinese throughout
this movie. The look and accent are not the only problems. They lacked
the kind of extreme femininity and excessive felicity of the delicately
mechanical gesture and movements of traditional Japanese ladies you see
in custom dramas of Japanese production. (Michelle Yeoh seems to be the
only one trying a little bit of those, but it did not quite work for
some reason.)

So, let me re-address the question: Can a group of American men and
Chinese actresses render the world of a geisha? The answer, I guess,
really depends on what you are looking for. If you would like a little
bit of delight from an aesthetically pleasing picture with a dubious
authenticity and realism, this movie delivers it. I would not say Rob
Marshall failed completely. Memoirs of a Geisha is not the first, nor
the last, movie that subjects another culture to the crude lens of
American exoticism. It definitely is not the worst one.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the most unfairly maligned film of the year. Some critics took
it upon themselves to be the defenders of Japanese culture (without
fully researching their arguments) and, in the process, betrayed their
own racism. "The film is inauthentic because the actresses do not wear
matronly bouffants," one said. Riiiiiight. Matronly bouffants are a
Western stereotype! But in any case, some of them do and some don't!
THAT'S authenticity. I guess critics wouldn't know that writing reviews
without seeing the film or walking out long before it's over (some,
such as Jeff Wells, do).

Anyway, it's a fantastic film and more than deserving of multiple
Academy award nominations - which it may not get thanks to the fact
that so many people decided they wanted to use the film as the
sacrificial lamb for a half-baked debate about international politics,
rather consider that pan-Asian casting for major roles is NOTHING new
(it's true of House of Flying Daggers, The Joy Luck Club and even
Crouching Tiger) and that this film's production might represent
international cooperation at its best.

Look out for Gong Li and Youki Kudoh in RICHLY developed supporting
roles. The supporting males, while obviously not as well developed
since they spend less time in the geisha quarters, still give
incredible performances. Ken Watanabe was excellent, but I particularly
enjoyed the performance of the actor playing Nobu. Oprah is right about
the sets and costumes; they (amongst other things) make you want to
savor every moment of the film. Some people have argued that the
brilliant colors make it seem like some sort of Orientalist fantasy.
Truth is that this would only be the case if we saw a departure from a
more sedate West to a flamboyant East; instead, the film opens in a
rather sedate part of Japan and then takes us to the more colorful
geisha district (which introduces this fascinating paradox of great
suffering in a milieu of tremendous beauty). We know from Chicago that
it's simply Rob Marshall's aesthetic to make everything the height of
beauty, even if it's a slum. God forbid ENTERTAINMENT CIRCLES should be
presented as visually spectacular! The film is by turns funny, moving
and, yes, thrilling. Gasps in the audience for the film's third act
gave way to sniffles. Ziyi Zhang really managed any language
difficulties well; her face has this ripple effect when she's emoting.
It's stunning to behold. If I were voting for the Oscars, I'd
definitely give her a nomination at the very least. And homegirl can
dance, too! Her performance and the film itself are not boring at all;
audience members laughed when she was trying to be funny and sighed
when she was suffering. IMO, too much happens in the film for it to get
boring; there's a strong balance between the rivalries, the details
about geisha entertainment and the romance. In the final scene, it all
comes full circle. I won't tell you how. See for yourself.

My #1 film of the year. Brokeback Mountain, Chronicles of Narnia,
Howl's Moving Castle, King Kong and Grizzly Man aren't far behind.
<|_=00=_|>
personally, i don't know what everyone was so anxious about before
viewing this movie. i had heard a lot of praise about the
cinematography and the depth and emotion of the storyline. who cares if
the actors were of different race? i know a lot of people will take
offense to that, but being an Asian-American myself, it didn't bother
me too much, since it wasn't what i thought of while watching the
movie. who has time to think of different dialects and someone being
Chinese when a beautiful story of the life of a geisha is being told.

i thought maybe the movie would not live up to the book, but i felt the
adaptation was done well. although some of the casting could have been
done better, i got chills from mother, angry at hatsumomo, and grew
respect for the character of mameha, just as i had from the book. the
movie did a fine job establishing the highly disciplined world of a
geisha, a world where many sacrifices are to be made.

all in all, the movie was fantastic, and if people could just look
beyond the issue of worrying about the nationality of a character who
is supposed to be Japanese (and to me, its not a huge issue) I'm sure
you will enjoy the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Memoirs of a Geisha" is a love story that remains tedious and distant
from being an epic love story on scale with Casabalanca, Dr. Zhivago,
or even TitanicÂ… 

The story follows one particular Japanese peasant girl whose father
sends her and her sister to a famous geisha houseÂ… Her less attractive
sister is sent away to a house of prostitution, and Chiyo is given
domestic tasks until the time when she can be trained to be a geishaÂ….

Naturally, the main appeal of the film is the glimpse into the true
nature of the geishaÂ… How a geisha becomes a pinnacle of elegance and
class, a master of entertainment and a royal agent of many gentle
graces, how she sells her skills and not her body, how she can be the
keeper of traditional arts, and how she can stop a man in his tracks
with only one lookÂ… Yet the film postulates that a geisha's ultimate
goal is her debut as a flamboyant dancer, sell her virginity, and pride
herself on being well paid for itÂ…

The film's photography is outstanding, the music score is inventive,
the editing is concise and timed perfectly, and Ziyi Zhang overflows
with sensitivity, delicacy, and sensualityÂ… 

Zhang has "the sea in her eyes." She is fascinating as the lovely
heroine, the tender mood of every man, the quality of being graceful,
the gentlemen's companion enclosed by an ever-changing Japan towards
the start of World War IIÂ… The apprentice courtesan stretches the
limits of realism for her lifelong devotion to a mysterious wealthy
benefactor whose kindness to Sayuri as a child left a lasting
impressionÂ… Sayuri preferred not to insist on her affection, even when
time and circumstance conspire to take her away from the man she loves
for years at a time, and was subjected to dramatic situations by the
rivalry between the opposing Geisha housesÂ…

"Memoirs of a Geisha" does not submit all its secrets on first viewing;
there are many layers of meaning and mystery to be seen again and
againÂ… Best of all, here is a movie that honors small acts of kindness
as the most precious thing we can cherish foreverÂ… Marshall's film
invited us into a hidden and fragile world of traditional arts and
culture where agony and beauty live side by sideÂ…
<|_=00=_|>
With all of the negative reviews in my mind as I walked into the
theatre, I braced myself for the worst. It turns out that my opinion of
the film that seemed to raise so much controversy over casting and
language fell in line with neither the vehemently negative, nor the
positive accolades of the critics who hail it as one of the best films
of the year. Instead, I left the theater feeling ambivalent, not quite
sure to sing its praises or to decry it completely.

One thing is for sure, the film is gorgeous. There are scenes where the
colour seems to bleed off the screen, and some just look like
portraits. That being said, the film seems to have forgotten subtlety
as a facet of art. Memoirs of a Geisha feels like a distinctly American
period film, a fabrication marked by artificiality. Instead of using
the actors as a vehicle for conveyance, our eyes are instead drawn to
the set design, the framing, the cinematography (at least, for me).

Everyone is probably sick of all the discussions about the casting of
Zhang Ziyi, Michelle Yeoh, and Li Gong, but I'm going to raise it
again. As a Chinese-American, it was strange for me to see three actors
who don't look Japanese play the part of the geisha. Additionally, the
fact that the film is in English also proved problematic because
although Michelle Yeoh's English is quite polished, Li Gong and Zhang
Ziyi's English is definitely not. Much of the time, I was struggling to
understand what they were saying (a gripe that I've seen mentioned by
many others). The inconsistency of the dialogue (e.g., different
accents from different characters, sporadic Japanese words during
English conversation between characters)detracted from the film for me,
because I had to keep asking myself, "Why is this not in Japanese?" In
the end, the film feels like a cup of instant ramen. It's satisfying
and tasty when the hunger pangs strike, but an hour later, you're left
wondering why you didn't just go for something a little more
substantial than freeze-dried noodles in a broth made from water and
MSG. Memoirs of a Geisha is an entertaining film, but I don't think I
could sit through it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Asian dramas -- even the ones involving fantasy fighting -- have a
certain lushness and a complex texture that I believe only Asian
directors can truly capture. So having Rob Marshall, a very American
director, step in, is a risk, and for two-thirds of the picture he
mutes the frenetic editing and lurid visuals used in CHICAGO, slows the
pace of the narration, and achieves the goal in making his vision look
as authentic as possible.

MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA has a lot of Charles Dickens in its storyline. The
tale of Chiyo, the little girl who is sold by her mother to a geisha
house, her trials and tribulations, her knowledge and yearning of true
love and success as a geisha is almost identical to the Dickensian
universe. It even evolves in a similar manner, and its more effective
moments are the ones involving Chiyo as a girl (Suzuka Ohgo) becoming
friends (and later enemies) with Pumpkin, not understanding why she is
in this strange house, why she has been separated from her sister whom
she frantically tries to seek out, or why the geisha Hatsumomo (Gong
Li) is so mean to her. One touching scene, which becomes the focus of
Chiyo's drive, is when she encounters this "prince" of a man, the
Chairman (Ken Watanabe). The smile he coaxes out her sad face is the
most luminous moment in the entire film, and this event makes Chiyo
want to become a better person and reunite with the Chairman. They do
meet later on, but the movie mutes their romance after she becomes the
geisha Sayori (Zhang Ziyi), and in trying to keep him distant in a
casual way -- they don't share as much as a stilted conversation --
somewhat works against the believability of their mutual but restrained
love.

What does work is the subtext within the relationships between the two
other women and Sayori, intended or not. Hatsumomo explodes in rage
against Sayori after being successfully put down the night of her debut
that has hints a little of repressed lesbianism. Notice the way
Hatsumomo lashes out like a snake: it also seems as if she would be
ready to kiss her at any second. Also noteworthy is the relationship
that Sayori develops with her mentor Mameha (Michelle Yeoh). I loved it
because I've seen Ziyi and Yeoh play rivals in CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN
DRAGON and it was great to see them interact in a completely different
way, one that indicates Mameha was the replacement for the sister
Sayori lost, one who also lost a chance at love and happiness, and who
only knows the life of a geisha.

Where the film falters, somewhat, is in trying to tie in all of the
story lines once the last half hour arrives. The invasion of World War
II, while intending to show how times change and traditions morph,
somehow didn't work on film as it must have on paper. I also felt that
Pumpkin's late introduction as a very American-friendly whore with
double intentions could have been handled better and seemed to belong
in another movie with comic overtones. Granted that her character had
becomes, as the mistress of the geisha house had predicted, Hatsumomo's
puppet via her actions, but I felt it slowed the story down a little.
Another character who did an about-face was Nobu's (Koji Yakusho).
There was little-to-no indication he had any interest in Sayori and
more than once he rebuffed her or looked bored by her. His sudden
declaration of love comes too abrupt and I didn't quite buy it. But
it's the problem with staying too close to the source material:
sometimes you have to tweak it a little while maintaining its essence.

As usual, there is some fantastic subtle acting from the three leading
ladies, all film veterans in their native China and Malaysia, as well
as in Ken Watanabe and Koji Yakusho. Yes, it's thirty minutes too long.
Yes, the love story is marginal at best. And yes, it would have
benefited better had it been done in its native tongue with subtitles,
but that would have been at the expense of it having limited
availability. However, it is a sumptuous, gorgeous film about the
triumph of the spirit of this one girl against the odds around her. And
it even has a happy ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Just returned from a BAFTA preview screening of Memoirs of a Geisha,
and it's certainly the best film I've seen this year so far (and there
isn't exactly long left.) The performances are outstanding, everything
about the physical setting and cinematography is breathtaking, and it's
emotionally rich without feeling twee or sentimental.

The Q&A session also reinforced the fact that, despite this being an
American-produced film of a novel by an American author, a great deal
of both research, training and supervision on-set went into making, for
example, the movements of the geisha as authentic as possible. The
issue of non-Japanese actors playing Japanese roles was also addressed
- Rob Marshall (the director) stated quite plainly that, as far as he
was concerned, he wanted the best actors for the parts - I'm perfectly
happy to give him the benefit of the doubt here, as the members of the
cast in question acted their socks off. The reaction has, apparently,
been equally positive in Japan, where actors like Ziyi Zhang are
anything but unknown.

Certainly if you want to see a beautiful, thoughtful, emotional film
centred around a little-understood but fascinating aspect of Japanese
culture, see this as soon as possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Going into the film, I had worries with all the slamming critics have
given, even though I didn't read all of them in details. However, I'm
happy to say it turns out to be one of more satisfying movie
experiences of the year.

First I echo the sentiment that the film is simply technically perfect.
The retro-mood it created had me immensed in the world of geisha from
beginning to the end. It's very 1930 Shanghai like. The music score
isn't as haunting as the one in CTHD, but it is still masterfully
composed and fits in the background very well. It's worth seeing for
the big screen experience alone. The story also never dragged, as each
of the three parts flowed nicely. I normally don't like voice-over, but
here it really held the movie together and helped to move the story
along.

As for the accents, the problem has definitely been exaggerated. I was
expecting a lot of unpleasant broken English to be spoken, but they all
sounded fine to good, not just from the most fluent Michelle Yeoh, but
Ken Watanabe, Youki Kudoh (who plays Pumpkin) and other supporting
casts. Gong Li had a few awkward lines at the beginning, and Ziyi had
more and is the one who had to try the hardest, but both pulled off
admirably and didn't hurt their performances in the process.

Talking about performances, I think almost all of them did well. It's
much more of an ensemble piece, and I was especially impressed by the
young Sayuri and Ken Watanabe.

The main problem I have is with character development. It is a
Cinderella story at heart, but the good and evil are too clear-cut and
lack dimension. I also want to see more ups and downs for the
competition between Ziyi and Gong Li. Gong did all she could, but the
script didn't allow her to be a worthy opponent. Except for some verbal
back-and-forth between the two and a few dirty tricks from Gong, there
was no reason to believe why she was the most famous geisha in Japan
before Ziyi arrived.

In addition, the Mother character is over-the-top and didn't fit the
emotional aspect the film quite well, although she did provide some
comical moments. The big dance scene had excellent buildup, but the
execution of the dance felt flat. It lasted only about 30 seconds,
while doubling that and making it more mesmerizing would have made the
whole middle act more effective.

These flaws didn't overshadow the fact that what was put on screen
worked for me. Will I be willing to watch it again with friends? In a
heartbeat. Will I recommend it to others? Definitely. With that in
mind, I give the film an A-.
