
So many critics are already lining up to pick at the plot, the action
scenes, and the details it's just sad.

This is an action movie with twists and turns, some believable, some
not so. If you liked The Fifth Element, The Professional, Le Femme
Nikita, and True Lies, this is your movie. If you grew up on Bond,
Dukes, and Blade Runner, you'll love it.

Just relax, ignore all those physics lessons on momentum, dynamics, and
forces, and enjoy.

If, on the other hand, you want to pay good money to sit in a theater
and keep a mental list of all the problems, bs, bad lines, and so on,
it's your life.

Personally, I adapt and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Shakespeare it isn't, but it's not for the plot that I watch the
Transporter movies. The action is excellent and is even better if you
are able to suspend your disbelief for an hour or so. There are a
number of scenes that are so outrageous that you need to decide if
you're going to buy in or get out. I bought in. There were also a
couple of obvious blue screen moments and several stunts that were
totally telegraphed, but otherwise fast and clever. The only
disappointments for me were wardrobe related - he had too much stubble
and wore way too many clothes. There was plenty of T&A for the guys but
we waited in vain for the movie to give even a little something to the
ladies... no such luck. In spite these minor failings, I highly
recommend that you go along for the ride. I'll certainly be back again
- Transporter 3 anyone?
<|_=00=_|>
I'm just an average guy who wanted to see a film on a Friday night with
a few friends. And thats just what this film turned out to be.

Now, i'm all for a good action film, but this was a little TO Hollywood
for my book. I went in expecting a somewhat good time, and came out
having one more or less. Let me explain.

If your wanted to see this for plot, and as a realistic high standard
action film, your going to be VERY disappointed. The stunts though
really cool looking, are virtually impossible to pull off --
realistically. The transporter was almost superman-like in a film that
was based on a realistic present day world, and he pulled off things
that SHOULD NOT and COULD NOT have happened. This is the negative side
to the film, and really the plot was Mediocre at best.

** PLOT Spoiler** The whole virus idea is so overused at this point in
time, and since they didn't expand on it enough until the end it didn't
really matter. The ending however well, it looked rushed. Althougth, it
became more and more like a James Bond film then a driving film with
each scene.

Now , the positives: If you wanted to see a action film that would
mildly entertain you on a Friday night, this is a great little flick.
Sure it's not the best, and sure it's not the most realistic, but it
was fun overall. Now I know there are a lot of people who won't see a
movie just because the plot is really unrealistic -- But if your like
me, it dosn't take much to be entertained. Just to be simply
entertained, this was a good film. You get to see some cool action
scenes, and while they are Hollywood style, and almost superhuman at
points, they are still very much so enjoyable. The plot can keep you
somewhat entertained, as well as the characters, however they arn't the
best. The action is the glue in this case.

Overall - It's an average film. I'd say 5-6 out of 10. If you want to
see an action movie with decent fighting and stunts, or have nothing
better to do on a Friday night, give it a look.

If your looking for a film to keep you entertained and enrich you in a
realistic plot with realistic events, pass this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Just an all around fun romp at the movies. No new or complicated story
here. We just get more of Frank kicking some serious tail. Implausible
action sequences are forgiven with the wink of an eye from the director
and actors. Some of the fastest action you will see that doesn't rely
on wire-fu or CGI. Rather, we get a lot of the same from Frank and that
is exactly what should be expected. I think in the modern era of the
high concept action movies, they have forgotten how to just show the
audience a good time. This movie and it's predecessor take us back to a
time when action wasn't bogged down by complicated stories, rather the
star's charisma and action were all that one needed to enjoy their time
in the theater.

These movies have no lofty aspirations other than to give you one hell
of a ride for an hour and a half. This outing delivers in spades.
<|_=00=_|>
TRANSPORTER 2 isn't going to win any awards for its story (whatever
happened to Luc Besson anyway?), but for a fun action movie it's about
as good as 2005 offered. Jason Statham reprises the role of Frank
Martin, a driver with impressive skills in or out of his car. The 2nd
film is at least as silly as the first, and not quite as corny in the
script, making it a very entertaining way to pass 80 minutes.

Obviously the aim of the film is to capture some of the style of
"Golden Era" Hong Kong action films, and Jason Statham does a great job
with the help of Cory Yuen's choreography, which is very imaginative
and clever (though he reuses a few ideas, e.g. the hosepipe from KISS
OF THE DRAGON). Unfortunately the film is blighted by "Hollywood-Style"
camera work and editing, which detracts from the choreography...
westerners still haven't learnt how to shoot a fight scene as well as a
Hong Kong crew (despite having 10x the budget available to do it)...
too many closeups, shaky camera that goes against the movement of the
action and editing which obscures rather than emphasises what's going
on. I'd love to see the action scenes re-edited by one of HK's premier
action film editors.

Still, small quibbles really since Hong Kong has pretty much stopped
making action films this fun anyway, and TRANSPORTER 2 is still
plentifully entertaining as it is :)
<|_=00=_|>
Held Great Promise, But Got Carried Away As with so many action movie
sequels of today, filmmakers take what was successful and beat it to
death on the second film. Usually it is the violence that is way
overplayed and this film is a perfect example. The first movie, "The
Transporter," had its share of action, but didn't cross the line and
was very entertaining. This sequel gets ridiculous and insulting.

The first third of this movie is outstanding; the second third "fair"
and the final third so ludicrous I kept looking at the clock to see how
much time was left in the film. The latter got out of hand with one
"Kill Bill"-type fight scene or car chase after another, each scene
being less credible than the one before it. These filmmakers just don't
know when enough is enough!

Once again, you have likable hero is Jason Startham as "Frank martin,"
the ex-Special Forces agent who is a now a "transporter." You have some
wild-looking villains, especially in "Lola" (Kate Nauta ) who competes
with Tammy Fae Baker n the makeup department (except this woman is hot)
and you have an interesting story. There is just no restraint in it.
Too bad because this film has a lot of style to it and held great
promise in that first half hour
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sorry to say it, but this is one of the most ridiculous movies I
have ever seen. The plot hardly makes any sense, the action scenes
stretch the limits of plausibility, and the acting is pretty shoddy.

But I loved it.

I don't care whether it was implausible fun, but it was an enjoyable
experience nonetheless. Yes, there are parts which are incredibly
stupid, like the character of Frank Martin and the villain fighting on
an out-of-control airplane, the silly things like having the French
policeman from the first film being arrested and teaching the cadets at
the police station how to make fine French cuisine(??), or the fact
that there's this Jamaican guy that shows up out of nowhere at the end
of the movie for comedic value(???), or the fact that you can spin a
car in mid-air, have the bottom of the car hit a wrecking ball, which
knocks off a remote-triggered bomb that blows up after dislodging, and
land the car safely(????), or the fact that there are hardly any police
to be found in the city...and so on. But, you'll probably enjoy this
movie if you're a fan of the genre, and hey, it's always great to see
Matthew Modine getting work.

Bottom Line: If you like fun, dumb action movies, you'll probably love
this. I'd go see it as a matin√©e if I were you. The movie is less than
1 and a half hours long.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, this film is never going to win any awards, but who cares when
it is this much fun? Jason Statham gives us a likable turn as Frank
Martin, and the rest of the cast aren't bad either. 

The plot is complete and utter nonsense but is interesting. The stunts
are completely over the top, but great fun to watch and very inventive
(watermelon boxing gloves!). The film never takes itself too seriously
and remains tongue in cheek the whole way through. Yes, it's all silly
implausible nonsense, but remains very entertaining silly nonsense.
Worth a watch if you want a mindlessly fun action movie. If you want
something more intelligent, you'll have to look elsewhere, but I've
seen far stupider films than this.
<|_=00=_|>
The Transporter franchise suffers from some serious engine failure in
this slickly produced sequel and only just makes it over the finishing
line. The original had a thin premise and an anorexic plot but
delivered brilliantly choreographed fight scenes and down-played gun
violence.

For number 2 the action is relocated from the French Riviera to Miami,
a city often featured in bad sequel movies (2 Fast 2 Furious, Bad Boys
II, Police Academy 5). Frank Martin (a skin-headed, forever grimacing
Jason Statham) no longer takes dodgy package from A to B, instead he's
temping as a chauffeur for a wealthy family. But when the kid is
snatched by stereotyped Columbian villain he springs back into action,
kicking ass in his own special way.

It turns out that the kid has been injected with a deadly virus. And
everyone he breathes on will catch it. And so on and so on. An
interesting plot device that soon crumbles into a massive pile of plot
holes.

The action doesn't have the same edge as it did before. I can
appreciate far-fetched action films as long as they stay within
relative distance of reality. Transporter 2 goes way beyond reality in
well into stupidity, turning Frank Martin from delivery man into
indestructible super-hero. After a while you'll realize this man can do
anything and will always walk out of the worst scenario alive. It
totally kills the excitement.

And as if the plot wasn't flimsy enough, the narrative just completely
shatters and will leave you disorientated and lost among the brawling
and battling. Characters come and go with no explanation, sub-plots are
abandoned and the film is totally void of a denouement or climax.
There's no satisfaction in the silly story being wrapped up.

All Transporter 2 really does is showcase a bunch of totally
far-fetched fight scenes, while failing at everything else that could
have made the film a contender. Even the relentlessly silly Danny the
Dog did better than this.

Even though it's made by a European director and producer and funded
with European money, something that gave the first such a unique feel,
this feels an awful lot like a Hollywood trash flick. It's a shame the
series had to stumble so soon. Since the end hints a third, one can
only hope that Leterrier and Besson get their act together. What began
as a series made in the style of Taxi, Ronin and Kiss of the Dragon has
ended up tumbling into world where movies like Stealth and SWAT live.
And that ain't good.

Oh, and I'm tired of hearing about the movie's so-called
homo-eroticism. Like I just said, this film is made by Europeans who
are not as homophobic as the rest of the world and see nothing wrong
with a man visiting another man for a holiday. Frank Martin is not gay.
<|_=00=_|>
In Miami, the professional driver Frank Martin (Jason Statham) is
working temporarily for the Billings family, transporting their son
Jack (Hunter Clary) while his driver is on vacation. Mr. Billings
(Matthew Modine) is an important member of the government and Mrs.
Audrey Billings (Amber Valletta) trusts on Frank, who promises to
protect the boy. When Jack is kidnapped by a mercenary hired by the
Colombian cartels, Frank faces the criminals and the Miami police force
trying to rescue the kid. When the boy returns to his family, Jack
discloses the real and lethal intention of the abduction of Jack.

"Le Transporteur II" is a great action movie that certainly will never
be indicated to an Oscar or discussed by intellectuals at a table in a
bar, but very entertaining and recommended for fans of James Bond,
Jackie Chan, Jet Li and movies with car chase and explosions. The story
is full of adrenaline, funny most of the time, with very hilarious
sequences. The performance of Matthew Modine and his grimaces is the
negative point of this film. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Carga Explosiva 2" ("Explosive Cargo 2")
