
I took my 12 year old grandson to see it and he was rolling on the
floor for most of the film. I was surprised that it was actually
funny,much more surprise than I was prepared for. This is a funny movie
for those preteens and early teens as they seem to really enjoy it.
Sure it is not full of high tech special effects and should never be
compared to the Matrix, but it is a Disney! movie --- get it... a
Disney movie. Take that into consideration ... how many Disney movies
achieve high ratings anyway, other than the classics? This is a fun
movie. I saw the original and it was funny too. Remember way back when
everything was black and white and not color? The special effects in
this movie are not very high tech and some of the metamorphosis takes
place when you do not see it, so do not expect "the wolf-man" changes
to be shown, nope, one shot he is a man, the next he is a dog. Some of
the other critters are pretty funny too and kids seem to love this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
So it's a dumb movie with a dumb plot - what do you expect? Agatha
Christie? Robert Ludlum? This is a Disney film for children!

As a kids' movie, it's a lot of fun with plenty of slapstick and lots
of laughs. The plot is goofy, but the basic premise is hardly meant to
be realistic. This is not cinema verit√©. People give "What Women Want"
with Mel Gibson a much higher rating, but that's just as daft.

There are plenty of set-piece chases, as you would expect with a
storyline about dogs. 

If you want clever, go see the Usual Suspects, just don't take your
under-eights.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a funny movie. Don't "compare" it to the older one, it just isn't
the same, it's made for the youth of today. Not sure what some
expected, but those rating this a "1" obviously don't get out to see
many movies, or are looking for something that just isn't this movie.
It's funny, not Awful as a rating of 1 would suggest. Now, as far as
Disney or the like goes, it's an average movie, below that which Tim
Allen is capable of, this is more what I might expect to see on Sunday
night TV, not on a big screen. Unfortunately as the Disney Corporation
becomes more and more "corporate" and moves further from it's founding
principles, its products are slowly failing to impress and
differentiate themselves from the hordes of the plain and ordinary and
unimaginative.

Wow, blah blah, just an average new age Disney movie, not awful but
certainly not anything to write home about.
<|_=00=_|>
Went today to see this film. another remake but admittedly haven't seen
the original. And I personally thought it was OK. Had three kids with
me...14 yr old 8 yr old and 6yr old who all sat watching it, enjoying
it and laughing away. Me too. Tim Allen was great as usual and def
suits the comedy side of acting. Bit samey with the oldest child a
teenage daughter who wears different clothes and wants to be
rebellious...father works a lot and isn't the most committed
father..mother who seems to do it all and has had enough and then the
younger son who just seems to want to do his own thing but hasn't the
nerve to say it. BUT apart from that the dog was great, Tim Allen and
Robery Downey Jnr were great(nice to see Downey in something), some
funny scenes with the actors and with the animals. Bit slow to start
with but gets better. Def entertaining for kids and adults..if only
Disney done more like this, seem to have dome some fantastic films
years ago and then lost the plot a bit. Worth seeing
<|_=00=_|>
The Shaggy Dog actually was not as bad of a movie as I had supposed it
would be. It was mildly entertaining, it keeps your attention. It is
not very realistic, for example when Tim Allen's character is chasing
the cat and rams the old lady and she goes flying and hits a tree. The
scenes after becoming the "shaggy dog" when he turns back to human, it
is all very funny through out there until the end of the movie. Tim
Allen's performance is quite original in this one, it also was better
than I hoped.

The first twenty minutes of the movie are very slow and boring, the
movie rises up after he gets bitten and turns into the dog. Overall it
was not such a terrible movie. It is a great movie to watch with your
kids or family and friends. Go and enjoy the Shaggy Dog Overall 6 1/2
out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Assistant D.A. David Douglas (Allen) finds himself barking up the wrong
tree, after he's bitten by a dog being experimented on in a laboratory
and suddenly finds himself acting and the turning into a dog himself.

Tim Allen's film career is a case of hit or miss. The Santa Clause
movies are offset by Joe Somebody and Christmas with the Kranks.
Unfortunately, The Shaggy Dog is in the latter group. To be blunt, the
film is pretty bad. The movie was not funny and it was quite dull. I
know it's just a harmless family film but did it have to be so boring
and humorless? Of course it didn't. I always thought family movies were
supposed to entertain the entire family not just one age group of the
family. The Shaggy Dog may prove to be an enjoyable treat for the kids
but most people over the age of 13 will probably hate it.

The acting is only okay and the decent cast keeps the film from
completely sinking. Tim Allen gives a decent performance as Dave but he
really needs to stop doing lame family movies. Kristin Davis also gives
a decent performance and she is also way above this material. I really
don't like Spencer Breslin. He just annoys me and his acting isn't very
good. The Shaggy Dog did not change my opinion about him. Zena Grey
just gives a bland performance, nothing special from her. Robert Downey
Jr. gives a decent performance as the bad guy. Danny Glover is wasted
in his role and he barely appears on screen.

The first twenty minutes or so are actually pretty enjoyable. After
that, the movie starts reusing the same jokes and it becomes more
serious. There was probably a break from the laughter for about 30
minutes since the movie was handling serious issues in a lighthearted
way. I think the director did this to attract both adults and children
but he ended up alienating both of them. The stupid humor will probably
bore adults and the serious scenes will probably bore the children. I
have never seen the original Shaggy Dog movies and maybe that's how
those films were handled as well. However, the film seemed a little
misdirected to me which isn't surprising since there are five(!)
credited screenwriters. Behind the camera, it seems like things were a
little messy and it shows in the movie. In the end, The Shaggy Dog is a
harmless yet humorless family film that should appeal to the kids.
Everyone else should skip the movie. Rating 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Shaggy Dog is a movie well suited for a younger audience, but is a
groaner for anyone over fifteen. There are a few good jokes in there
that would would spark a chuckle from the 'elders', and some of Tim
Allen's dog-ish impressions might make you laugh but it will get old.

The movie starts off like a mysterious Jackie Chan movie, set in Tibet.
We are shown a temple where a sheep dog sits praying with the rest of
the monks, but a foul plot is afoot: the military has been sent to
kidnap this dog, which has been alive for more than 300 years. The evil
Dr. Kozak (Robert Downey Jr.) wants to market a "fountain of youth"
from the dogs DNA.

Meanwhile, Dave Douglas (Tim Allen), a Washington D.A., is having an
average American lifestyle. His kids know that he doesn't get them, and
his wife is starting to realize that she is losing her husband to his
job. When the 300 year old shaggy dog escapes the test lab and bites
Douglas,he transforms into a dog at night, and has many dog-like
tendencies throughout the day.

Often, jokes are repeated throughout the movie, yet don't receive a
"running-joke" label, but become annoying. However, Tim Allen's
thoughts while a dog ("I don't know why I never tried this running on
four legs thing before!") are quite cute. All in all, it's like "Good
Boy" with a slightly different story.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my daughter to see this movie, and we both enjoyed it very much.
We can't wait until it comes out on DVD to add to our personal
collection. I really was happy with the fact that there wasn't any
profanity throughout the entire movie. It reminded me of the good old
days when rated PG movies could be watched by the entire family. We
laughed throughout the entire movie, and it managed to hold my 8 year
old daughter's attention, which is commendable within itself. So, I
really wanted to say Thank You to all of the individuals who were apart
of the decision making process of making sure that this movie was
completely decent for our children to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Allen may be the most underrated and generous comic actor working
today, willing to pursue any honest laugh to please his audience. But
he's clever about it, and the slapstick in this remake rivals the
pioneering skill of silent film comedians. This is Allen's best work
since "Galaxy Quest."

The ultimate test of this movie is the child you take along (including
the one we carry in our heart). My daughter laughed and had a great
time. She even explained the DNA cloning technology in such a way that
demonstrated just how much craft when into the screenplay -- "make it
understandable to a kid under 12" -- even though the pseudo science of
the plot often distracted my adult mind.

I never saw the original flick with Fred MacMurray. But I did see Lon
Chaney play The Wolfman, and a dozen other werewolf movies. This is a
G-rated version of the same mythology, and it resonates for me as an
adult, but flies over the head of my youngster. "The Shaggy Dog" works
on two distinct levels while satisfying both audiences -- I only wish
all family movies were this good.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked Home Improvement, Galaxy Quest and the first Santa
Clause, but most of Tim Allen's other movies have been pretty bad. The
original Shaggy Dog was only mildly amusing, but it was a masterpiece
compared to the remake, which like most remakes, is just lazy garbage.
Movies have become Big Macs, rapidly prepared junk food for an
increasingly lazy audience. While Allen's Shaggy Dog is certainly
better than Santa Clause 2 or Zoom, it's still mind-numbingly dull,
even for the child audience it was obviously made for. I understand
they're making a Santa Clause 3. Somebody should tell Tim Allen to
retire before he embarrasses himself further.
