
Dead or Alive is a film that is so exploitative and atrociously bad,
that somehow it ended up being a whole lot of fun. However to view this
as a fun film, it must be viewed as intended: With brain switched off,
and ol' Mr McDong taking control of your functions for 80 minutes. Yes,
this may be a film with a predominantly female cast, but ladies need
not turn up to watch this, cause they probably won't enjoy it, unless
their sexual barometer is registering the opposite end from "hetero."
This film is total gratuity in every regard, from the scantily clad,
sexy ladies, to the barrage of testosterone pumping action. This is hot
chicks doing high kicks! So with that, and having this the
pre-conceived idea when I bought my ticket, I knew I'd enjoy it. Hell
the film was marketed right. It's about a video game and has the
subtlety of said game, which is in the button bashing, short attention
span of the games spectrum. It's a simple movie for a simple movie
going experience. IF anyone goes into this film and comes out having
not enjoyed it, then they SHOULD have known better! I think only those
who want to see this kind of film, who are in the mood, will watch, and
they'll get a kick out of it like me. Critics will despise it cause it
represents a film they have to watch, but probably don't want to.

So DOA is essentially a non-interactive video game, an FMV if you will.
It's got an awful script, mediocre acting, and all the efforts of the
filmmakers have gone into perfectly capturing, glistening, bouncing
boobies amongst the martial arts mayhem. The plot essentially is
nothing more than little set-ups to all the fights, taking place at a
secret fighting tournament set up by Eric Roberts, in grade-A scenery
chewing mode. Roberts to me is a tragic waste of talent, who in the
early 80's looked a great prospect and to some, me included, has more
talent than his over-rated sister Julia (who now of course takes all
the plaudits). Roberts is consigned to doing DTV movies now, or TV
movies and on the rare occasion he appears back in the multiplexes,
it's in another B-movie that usually is awful. However at least Eric is
enjoying himself here, relishing his return (somewhat) to the
limelight. or to put it another way, to remind people Julia wasn't an
only child! The rest of the main cast, who register any interest, are
the hot ladies. There's the rather bizarre, yet strikingly attractive
looking Devon Aoki and then there's also Holly Valance, Sarah Carter
and Natassia Malthe too. However it's Jaime Pressley who steals the
show, not only with her performance, that delivers the most laughs
(intentional ones that is), but also she has a bod to die for and
considering some stiff competition from Valances sculpted physique in
particular, that's no mean feat.

Overall though this film will go down as a classic bad movie. The
filmmakers never intended making anything beyond what they deliver.
This is bad, it's cheesy and it's forgettable. But it's outrageously
fun while it lasts and it most certainly requires the wearing of loose
fitting underwear to allow for Sgt Schlong to stand to attention every
now and again. I feel guilty having enjoyed it, but I had a good idea
of the film that would be delivered and it was delivered as I imagined.
***
<|_=00=_|>
I love martial arts movies and in particular Cory Yuen films. No
Retreat, No Surrender 3: Blood Brothers is a favourite. Having
previously done great work with Jason Statham in The Transporter I had
pretty high hopes. But I had reservations - this was a starring role
for Holly Valance after all.

It wasn't everything I hoped it would be. Compared to the raw energy of
Crank, DOA was committee film-making as usual. Colourful and featuring
plentiful (reasonable) action DOA is only interesting in the
opportunities it presents to draw comparison to others.

Borrowing stylistic and casting ideas from Charlie's Angels and Kill
Bill, DOA is essentially Mortal Kombat and Streetfighter combined.
Drawing parallels to Enter the Dragon too, there is nothing original or
inventive.

Kane Kosugi benefits most from the choreography. He has a sequence on a
flight of stairs which is brilliant and brutal - very similar to his
scenes in his Japanese breakthrough vehicle Blood Heat. Elsewhere,
while the film sexes up the concept of the tournament/video game movie,
it's fatal flaw is that it's heroines don't convince. In Charlie's
Angels they did.

Cory is notable for doing more than his share of fighting femme movies
back in Hong Kong, including the recent So Close, but none are classic.
DOA should have featured support from the likes of Cynthia Rothrock and
Michelle Yeoh rather than Eric Roberts and Robin Shou. The girls are
pure eye candy. Only Pressley comes close to credibility - because she
has an impressive physique and attitude. Holly flutters her eyes at
Coronation Street's Matthew Marsden while forcing an English accent.
Devon Aoki lacks charisma.

The incorporation of the video game elements such as the character
intros, K.O. freeze frames etc works really well and the costume design
and production design brings the game to life brilliantly. You believe
in the exaggerated world and that is key. But ultimately this is little
more than a time waster.

A decent popcorn movie but nothing new for action fans.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a group of fighters getting invited to a fighting
contest. Along the way, they find out there is a plot behind it and
they work together to fight the bad guys.

There are quite a few problems with the movie. The plot is implausible.
The DOA logo gets an on screen appearance too much that is very
annoying. The love relationships seem so poorly built up that it exists
just for the sake of existing. Not to mention the numerous soft porn
scenes that make the film look cheap. Oh, and Devon Aokiwears the same
facial expression on her face all the time, and her dialogs are spoken
in such a plain and mundane way that is devoid of any emotion.

However, there are good things about the film. The film is pure
brain-off entertainment. The fight scenes are very well thought out and
rehearsed. This alone makes the film fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. I never thought In my wildest dreams that I would be standing
behind this film, sticking up for it opposed to slandering it with the
rest. I actually went to see it for a laugh and so what if there were a
half dozen beautiful girls flaunting there stuff right? well the first
10 minutes kinda made me think I was gonna be dead right, but not
entirely. Sure it was a very poor excuse for a plot, but the action was
really quite good. Before I get into that I need to make a remark, a
lot of people have been slandering this movie because of it's story
line, fair enough, but if you say that it doesn't make sense, you must
be one thick chimpanzee, The story is so linear it hurts, and very, I
repeat VERY easy to understand! Back to the movie. The acting was fine,
I was especially pleased at Holly's Performance, A perfect role for her
I would say, if Anyone's ever seen any of her film clips

Plot: Pro-wrestler Tina (Jaime Pressly), master thief Christie (Holly
Valance), and ninja princess Kasumi (Devon Aoki) are competitors in a
martial arts tournament with a $10 million prize.

That pretty much sums up the basis of the plot haha but yeah. Good
Action, Hot Girls, a worth while watch. Oh and another thing, Sarah
Carter who starred in 3 episodes of Smallville plays another butt
kickin' Babe, very sexy. It was kind of refreshing be able to watch a
movie where the plot wasn't really a problem at all, all you had to do
was focus on what was going on, no having to think about how this
person knows this person and why they want to kill each other. It was
also good to see a 'Girl Power' Flick which wasn't cheesy in the way
that Charlie's Angels was, yeah it was cheesy in other ways, but none
of that, "come on angels, let's go get 'em" All in all a good watch, I
just hope they don't try and do a sequel *sighs* and IF they do, I hope
they get a damn script writer!!!!

7 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
While I agree that this is not terribly original or even an innovative
film, it is fun, and that's what it was meant to be. You can't expect
mastery from actors who haven't trained their whole lives but having a
long history with martial disciplines I felt that these women did a
great job. Sarah Carter has shown combative promise for years (remember
Black Sash???), and her skill as a dancer is clear watching her move
(fighting or not). Graceful and inspired, sleek and sexy, in many ways,
she alone is worth seeing this movie for, whether in jeans or that
little bikini. Who couldn't love this woman? But then they throw in
other talent like Jaime (who is obviously in shape for this film both
physically and professionallyÂ—great accent she adopted) and Devon, both
of whom who could have a strong career in action flicks.

Having said that, this is not a film for the martial arts critic, it is
a movie for fans. Many may have to lower their expectations so as to
not feel as other reviewers have, and may need to remind themselves
that these women are not masters of combat (and that a gorgeous woman
in a bikini is not offensive but a vision). Movies don't have to be
original to be enjoyable, and I hope viewers don't fall into the trap
of criticizing this movie because it isn't. Why bother watching any
movie then?
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the DOA video games, it was in my nature to go see this
film. Even though I knew it was going to be shocking, I was surprised
(a bit).

Following the storyline from the games, DOA is about a fighting
tournament held on a secret island were all is not what it seems.
Princess Kusami (Devon Aoki) joins the tournament to find her brother.
Tina (jammie Pressley) a distinguished womens wrestler joins to prove
to the world she's not fake, like her "fighting style". Christie (holly
valance)playing a sultry thief joins in order to steal a vault full of
money, hidden on the island. Over time they meet other characters and
they learn to work together in order to stop the main villain, Donovan
(Eric Roberts).

Like most fighting video game/movies the really isn't much of a story
and a few of the actors are below par (espesially from Kane Kosugi), I
was really impressed by Holly Valance and Sarah Carter.

Most reviews can tell you that this is strictly for teenage boys, and I
can tell you there right, through some racy shots of Holly valance and
Jamie Presley. But what Impressed me the most with DOA is the fight
sequences. Kane Kosugi has one of the best I've seen In a while on a
flight of stairs and Sarah Carter and Holly Valance battle it out in
the rain making it an almost glorified wet t-shirt Competition.

If your looking for something innovating form this genre, keep walking,
but if your looking for a great way to spend and hour and a half with
some friends, then see DOA.
<|_=00=_|>
With its one dimensional characters and convoluted story, dead or alive
was never really the best game to bring to the big screen . But
nevertheless thanks to cory yune and a dubious ensemble cast, we now
have a dead or alive movie. But is it any better than the corny
trailers suggests ? The answer is NO .

Like the games its based on there's plenty of scantily clad babes and
over the top action but thats all there is. There's no sense of
suspense, interesting characters or successful attempts at intentional
humour- just over edited fights mixed with a healthy portion of T&A.

Will the fans like it ? I can safely bet that once again the answer is
no. Much like 94's street fighter movie, the characters are brought to
life through a horribly mismatched cast decked out in cheesy cosplay
outfits- only the most die-hard fans will be completely happy with this
one.

DOA isn't completely terrible. The few fights that aren't edited to
death are pretty good , and there's lots of laughs to be had from the
corny acting and dialogue- but its overall buffoonery doesn't raise it
above trashy "midnight movie on cable" status.

Its one for horny teens and dead or alive completists only.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been playing Dead or Alive since the Playstation release back in
1998 (I still do~~) and was shocked when I heard someone's gonna turn
it into a movie. As a fan, the first thing, the major concern I had
happens to be the actors playing the fighters. Not that it was a
complete let down (especially since most of the attitudes of the
characters in the game and movie were quite different), I had to
anticipate it being (forgive the term) somewhat 'Americanized'. But ah,
well. That's how it was. Don't know if Tomonobu Itagaki liked seeing
Hayate not so often in the film, though (Hayate WAS modeled after him,
the DOA creator). So when it was released, I avoided watching it, until
now.

Corey Yuen did an amazing job directing this one. The choreography of
the fight scenes were really good, but the script and the plot... those
needed work. It was fun seeing Robin Shou and Collin Chou in this film.
But props to Jaime Pressly for the amazing portrayal of Tina! She, in
my opinion, stole the show from Devon Aoki.

But really, this is more of a fan service (in glorified kick-ass
fights!) than a supposed movie in its own right. But it was better than
most game adaptations and it was fun to watch.

One thing's certain- I didn't like the portrayal of Ayane.
<|_=00=_|>
This film ain't pushing the girl power formula it's just a group of
fighters whose main protagonists are mostly women. DOA is quite good
and i might think to see it again, I like everybody in the film my
comment is that they have to trim down the comic elements i think it
was too much especially Christie's partner he's quite annoying.

I expected it to be a charlie's angels film but it's not. DOA is one of
those films you'd like to see if you are into popcorn films, and the
fight choreography is worth the price of the ticket they actually
applied the moves of the characters on the video game. It makes me
wanna play the video game when after seeing it!
<|_=00=_|>
In 1999, the martial arts movie was redefined by "The Matrix." What
people forget is, the martial arts movie was previously redefined four
years earlier, with the release of 1995's "Mortal Kombat." Of course,
yes, "The Matrix" left everything before it in the dust. But for that 4
years, we had a short-lived champion... exciting action sequences,
fair-to-cheesy dialogue, and a thumping techno soundtrack. It took
something as historical as the Wachowski Brothers to knock it off its
perch.

"Dead or Alive" features action sequences about on-par with "Mortal
Kombat," dialogue scenes that are only slightly more painful, and the
added presence of Eric Roberts, which takes two full points off its
IMDb rating just for attaching his name to it.

I didn't hate DOA; it was miles better than "Mortal Kombat:
Annihilation" and director Corey Yuen ("Transporter," "So Close") is
certainly light-years better than Uwe Boll, if that even means
anything.

Slightly better than your average rental, but not worth a $7 movie
ticket. In 1996 this would have made a bundle, but today it's just
something that might actually hold your attention on cable at 3 a.m.
6/10.
