
Somebody decided to make a "black version" of Airplane.

Somebody decided to make a really, really bad "black version" of
Airplane.

Somebody decided to make a really, really bad "black version" of
Airplane that ran out of humor after the first twenty minutes.

Somebody decided to make a really, really bad "black version" of
Airplane that ran out of humor after the first twenty minutes and
instead spent all of its time insulting the intelligence of the
audience and the cast.

This movie managed to violate the laws of physics by sucking and
blowing at the same time. If nothing else, it deserves to be remembered
for that accomplishment.

It's not a black thing, it's not a white thing, it's just a bad thing.
A really, really bad thing. Picking it apart point-by-point would be a
waste of time. The best thing that can be said about the movie is that
there was a purple airplane in it. Do yourself a favor... go buy a
picture of a purple airplane, and you will have gotten the best of what
this movie had to offer.

This one definitely goes under the category of "What the !^@@&*! were
they thinking????"
<|_=00=_|>
Most comments submitted to IMDb about "Soul Plane" are so negative that
it would appear this film should not hold anyone's interest. While it
is no masterpiece, the movie is not half as bad as most critics seem to
indicate.

First of all, other mainstream spoofs have dealt with the same clich√©s
one sees in "Soul Plane". Jesse Terrero, the director, shows a flair
for the material. The director has gathered a lot of talented black
entertainers in a comedy that is best watched with a lot of friends
because there are some hysterical moments in it that are a riot.

It's true there are stereotypes, but it doesn't seem the creators of
the film set out an agenda to hurt anyone. Some jokes play better than
others, but with the right attitude, the movie proves to be fun. The
use of some of the music plays well within the context of the film.

Kevin Hart, Tom Arnold, Snoop Dog, K.D. Cubert, the funny Mo'nique, and
the beautiful Sofia Vergara make this a movie with a lot of laughs.

Instead of dwelling in the negative aspects of "Soul Plane", just
relax, sit back and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
A trailer for this movie made me think that it was going to be garbage.
A year or more later I watched it on BET and I couldn't stop laughing.

This movie should not be taken seriously. It contains tons of jokes
(I'm a white male with a sense of humor, don't know if this helps). If
you are bored and in need of a new comedy, this comes highly
recommended. (My other favorite comedy's are Blades of Glory,
Arthur(1981), Austin Powers (all three), Ben Stiller's Dodgeball,
Wedding Crashers) if you wanted to know my sense of humor.

It is definitely worth the time and you will not regret watching the
movie. I want to high-five the creators of this movie and party with
them.
<|_=00=_|>
After a humiliating experience on an airplane, Nashawn Wade (Kevin
Hart) sues the airline and uses the money he wins to start up his own
full-service airline. What makes his different is that it has sexy
stewardesses, an on board dance club and no less than Captain Snoop
Dogg in the cockpit.

Soul Plane is a very racist comedy except it is only occasionally
funny. Soul Plane has been described as an "urban" version of Airplane.
The problem is that Soul Plane doesn't even come close to achieving the
laughs of Airplane. The jokes in Soul Pane are too offensive and they
are mostly unoriginal. I would be lying if I said I didn't laugh since
there were some funny moments. However, I was expecting more and I left
the theater disappointed.

I would compare Soul Plane to Airplane 2. The latter was just a rehash
of the first film while the former is just a rehash of outdated, crude
jokes. There is really no creativity behind the movie and there are
only a few fun spots. However, I don't think Soul Plane is "bottom 100"
bad. Right now, the movie is ranked at number 82 and that's a little
harsh. I'm not saying this is a good movie but it isn't a terrible on
either. The running time is only 86 minutes long so it isn't too much
of a pain to watch. For stupid comedies, you can do a lot worse.

No one in the cast is very good but they all seem to be having fun and
this helps. Kevin Hart was very annoying as Nashawn. He had a few funny
lines but he is a very poor leading man. Snoop Dogg, who was mildly
funny in Starsky and Hutch, completely flunks here. Tom Arnold was
actually tolerable and that was the film's biggest surprise. The most
annoying person in the movie was Ryan Pinkston. He was not funny at all
and he will never be funny. The funniest cast members were Missi Pyle
and Mo'Nique. They gave the best lines and they made me laugh the most.
In the end, Soul Plane may fit the bill if you're looking for a stupid
comedy but it would probably be better if you just skip the film.
Rating 4/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Soul Plane" is a horrible attempt at comedy that only should appeal
people with thick skulls, bloodshot eyes and furry pawns. 

The plot is not only incoherent but also non-existent, acting is mostly
sub sub-par with a gang of highly moronic and dreadful characters
thrown in for bad measure, jokes are often spotted miles ahead and
almost never even a bit amusing. This movie lacks any structure and is
full of racial stereotypes that must have seemed old even in the
fifties, the only thing it really has going for it is some pretty
ladies, but really, if you want that you can rent something from the
"Adult" section. OK?

I can hardly see anything here to recommend since you'll probably have
a lot a better and productive time chasing rats with a sledgehammer or
inventing waterproof teabags or whatever.

2/10

<|_=00=_|>

I hate to comment on something I didn't finish, but if I spare one
person what I sat through for almost an hour before turning it off in
disgust, it will be worth it. 

I decided to watch this with an open mind, knowing it was on the bottom
100.

Bad idea. I usually love crude humor, or can at least tolerate it. I
love so-called "black" comedies. I'm not easily offended, either. 

It started off okay and quickly went downhill. I laughed a few times
(for example, when the main character got stuck in the airplane
toilet), but that was it and didn't compensate for the strong disgust I
felt.

I didn't laugh when the dog got sucked into a jet engine. I usually
can't see the humor in animals dying (except in Animal House). I didn't
laugh at much else of the nastiness, either. I turned it off after an
incident involving a blind man and a baked potato that I don't care to
repeat the details of, only that the wave of nausea still hasn't passed
over me. 

Simply put, it was smut-filled and simply not funny with barely any
plot. This is one of the times when if you don't have something nice to
say, you should get the word out.

Don't say I didn't warn you.

<|_=00=_|>

I read a lot of negative reviews about this movie from the user
comments on this board. OK, so there are a lot of stereotypes BUT
nobody is left out which is a very fair way to do it. There was no
bias, everyone got made fun of! Whites, Blacks, Gays, Hispanics, etc.
This movie hit those stereotypes in such an amusing way. I'm a white
American and was not offended by Tom Arnold's character and family. A
guilty pleasure of humor I think we can all relate to. 

This wasn't a great movie, but I still say it was very entertaining
which was the goal for this movie. There is a lot of shocking humor
that you just don't find in most comedies today. If you are the kind of
person who can discern between real life and how real life is perceived
then this movie is for you! No need to get offended up in here, just
lay back and enjoy this entertaining movie. Don't worry, this movie
isn't going to influence anyone.

<|_=00=_|>
Last night, the jaw dropping and stupid "Soul Plane" came on BET and I
must say...I hate this film even more!!! I felt really embarrassed for
some of the talented actors and comics involved in this film who had to
play stereotypical, offensive, and awful roles.

The special effects were sort of impressive considering how bad the
movie was and I did laugh like 2 times. But overrall, wtf were they
thinking when they made this movie?!?! Is this supposed to be the black
answer to "Airplane"?

The only entertaining elements about this movie were the scenes with
Snoop Dogg, MoNique, and Kevin Hart. Other than that, this is probably
the worst black movie to come out this decade.

Really, really, BAD!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The title tell s you where its heading. A commercial Hollywood
producing with the word 'Soul' says its going to be a parody of Black
culture an d characteristics done badly and diluted so as to cash in on
mainstream. Result, offend everyone in its morals and production.

Racial stereotypes and black/white culture are embraced rather than
dispelled. Tom Arnold definitely steals the show as he is an excellent
comedy actor. Some of the jokes are forced. Some awkward moments.
Dwayne Adway is a bit weak in the leading role needed to stick to being
the straight man. Stewardess Sofia Vergara has landed in this film from
being pictured on a footballer's arm. And like Francine Dee (who plays
the Chinese stripper here)is another one of the models and women that
have appeared as portraits by the GB artist and psychic Stephen
Armourae. This film tries to be an Airplane spoof. But that in itself
was a spoof. Double negatives don't work well. But it has enough laughs
to be worth looking at.
<|_=00=_|>
Frankly I did not think there was anything humorous about this movie.
It was really lame and poorly done with no plot whatsoever.
Surprisingly it got some chuckles from me at the beginning with the
Malcolm X terminal and that was about it. Seriously Soul Plane made
even the worst movies such as Gigli look like a Emmy winner. This movie
is really not worth seeing unless of course you were blind like Johnny
Witherspoon who played the blind man in the movie (another sad
character). I cringed at majority of the stereotypic jokes and ruining
Tom Arnold and D.L Hughley by casting them in this movie. This movie
could be summarized in just one sentence. Nashawn wins $100,000,000 and
creates his own airline, sex, drugs, homosexuality, more sex, drugs,
did i mention sex? If I could I would rate this movie in the negative
integers, however, the beginning was amusing which brings this movie to
a 1/10. Doing the "t bag" pfft!
