

No Spoilers.

First off, I'd like to say that this film is everything a South
Park/Trey Parker devotee could hope for. It's sly, it's vulgar, it's
full of gore/profanity/violence/nudity, and it is made entirely with
marionettes.

The sheer amount of wit and subversive humor packed into this film is
mind boggling, but yet it doesn't bog you down with vague references
and really confusing in-jokes. And goddamn, puppets swearing/having
sex/killing people/dancing never gets old. NEVER.

The film is actually almost 2 hours long, but as expected, is one which
time takes on less relevance. Of course, some people are going to see
just how limited Trey Parkers voice talents are, but having 4 different
minor character sound exactly the same is always a surefire treat. Take
note that a grand total of zero big name actors lend their voice to
this film, though Little B**ch(Dian Bachar) does give a little
appearance here and there.

The whole film is real. You heard me. Absolutely nothing in this movie
(with the exception of the title credits and I.N.T.E.L.L.I.G.E.N.C.E.)
was done with computers. While this may sound impressive on paper, on
film it's actually a masterful achievement. While Parker sometimes
plays into the film's self-conscious aura and indulges the audience a
bit, most scenes are played out to their full puppet potential. I'm
sure this film will be a benchmark in the world of puppeteering for
years to come, despite it's content.

All in all, it was exactly what I expected (and I have high standards
for Parker) and I could not have been happier with the result. A second
viewing will be needed, just to take in all the detail of the film, as
the sets are lush, elaborate and breathtaking scale models of cities
all over the world.

For those who want to bother comparing it to Parkers earlier forays,
yes, it is better than Cannibal! and Orgazmo, but does not quite stand
up to SP:BLU, but only because BLU had the background and the
familiarity factor. After a second viewing, this opinion could very
likely change.

In other words, if you like this sort of stuff, you'll love it. If you
are iffy on Parker/South Park/libertarian humor, then you will most
likely hate it. But what else is new.

<|_=00=_|>
The one thing I noticed while attempting to breathe during this movie
was that people were walking out in between bursts of hysterical
laughter.

Unfortunately, this movie is not for everyone. I wish it didn't offend
some but it does. So, if you want to know whether you will enjoy this
film or not, you must answer "yes" to the following:

1. I am not offended by the "F" word. Being repeated 300 times.

2. I am not offended by intense marionette sex.

3. I am not offended by racial satire.

4. I am not offended by ridiculous political satire.

5. I am not a member of the Film Actor's Guild.

If you're like me and have answered "yes" to the above five questions,
go see this film. You will laugh so hard it will hurt and you will
giggle about it for the next week thereafter.

I have to say that I am very desensitized when it comes these kinds of
films, and I'd say that Team America has raised the bar in derogatory
humor. But that only made it more hilarious. I give it 5 stars, two
thumbs up, 10 out of 10; it was flawless. But...

On the other hand, if you're not like me, you might find yourself
walking out by the third time you hear the song, "America, F*** Yeah!"
<|_=00=_|>
As much as I hate to admit it, Trey Parker and Matt Stone are actually
quite talented in a sick twisted, strange, little way. After laughing
my butt off during South Park Bigger, Longer & Uncut, I couldn't wait
to see this movie. I was not disappointed.

This could be by far the funniest film this year. The plot is easy to
follow, as it borrows from most action flicks you see these days, but
the way in which it is made is incredible. The fact that these are
puppets is enough to make you laugh throughout the entire film. The
jokes are funny and don't fall flat. As I was watching the opening, I
thought it might run out of steam as it went on. My ticket said it went
for almost 2 hours, and I wondered how it would sustain the entire
time. It flew. The film is a guilty pleasure.

And parents, before you take your kids to see this, then complain it
was disgusting, please read the R Rating! Sit back, relax and watch,
but not with coke in your mouth. It will get spit everywhere.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into Team America expecting to see something along the lines of
South Park humor, and I wasn't disappointed.

If you can't stand South Park's humor, you won't enjoy this at all. The
use of marionettes was an unusual choice, but thanks to the great
puppetry and designs, they work very well.

The story is just really there to serve the increasingly twisted humor
of Trey and Matt's vision. And it works perfectly. There are at least
three scenes which made the audience (and me) in the theater laugh out
very loud - that is something that very few comedies in recent times
have been able to accomplish.

I was surprised how much I enjoyed Team America; but then I really
enjoy South Park. A very entertaining (adult) cinematic excursion for
the South Park creators, and an impressive display of puppetry skills
(for which the sex scenes will be remembered! :)
<|_=00=_|>
"Team America: World Police" is a great sendoff to one of the most
turbulent times in American history, and "South Park" creators Trey
Parker and Matt Stone, both equal opportunity offenders, pull no
strings (no pun intended) with this hilarious and blazingly satiric
model of the United States and its supposed role in world affairs.

But again, what better way is there to remember the tumultuous reign of
the U.S. and its War on Terror than to make a movie that satirizes the
living hell out of both? Like their previous effort "South Park: Bigger
Longer & Uncut," they take chances that no other filmmaker in America
is ever willing to take, and that is to be as crude and vulgar as
humanly possible for 90 minutes straight.

Anyone expecting an anti-Bush treatise like "Fahrenheit 9/11" or a
pro-Kerry ad campaign will be sorely mistaken. It's really best that
liberals and conservatives both stay as far away from this movie as
possible, as they both get their fair share of bashing. Parker and
Stone have even said that anyone who thinks it should be used to sway
votes is a "f**king idiot." America itself seems to be at the top of
their hit list, or at least American bravado is.

As a casual fan of "South Park," I understand that Trey Parker and Matt
Stone go to the extreme in making fun of American culture and
lampooning people they don't like. Already they've gotten "fan" mail
from Sean Penn, who is understandably upset over his portrayal in the
film, as well as several other liberal celebrities who are portrayed as
being backstabbing morons.

But I'm not really here to argue political bias in this film (George W.
Bush has got to go come November 2nd, in case anyone wants to know),
and the perfect satire has come to fuel the fire of the most important
election in United States history.

"Team America: World Police" is hugely inspired by the "Thunderbirds"
marionette cartoons that aired during the 1960s, and it shows us a TEAM
of Americans that POLICE the WORLD. North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il
has weapons of mass destruction and has implemented plans to use them.
So Team America goes to work to foil his evil plans. In doing so, they
lay waste to several world landmarks, including the Eiffel Tower, the
Louvre, the Sphinx, and the Egyptian pyramids.

"America" parades through virtually every action movie clich√©
imaginable, most notably from the films of producer Jerry Bruckheimer,
whose "Pearl Harbor" (2001) gets lampooned the worst; they even hit
"Top Gun" (1986).

There is no question that "Team America: World Police" is inspired and
imaginative film-making, made by two creative geniuses who LOVE to push
the envelope anywhere they can. Liberal Hollywood celebrities get some
of the worst bashing here, with political gadfly Michael Moore playing
the part of a hot dog-munching suicide bomber and Alec Baldwin as the
leader of the Film Actors Guild (F.A.G., get it?). But conservatives
aren't off the hook either, as their politics of U.S. intervention in
every world affair is taken to ridiculous heights, hence the title
"World Police."

"Team America: World Police" is a brilliant satire of our times, of
course that doesn't make it safe from the detractors who claim that
Parker and Stone are irresponsible morons. Indeed, there are smarter
ways to approach such sensitive material, but Parker and Stone aren't
intellectuals who are out to change the world, they're just two guys
who like to fool around and make people laugh.

"Team America: World Police" - 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Fans of Parker and Stone's prior efforts will both love this, and know
what to expect from this. Politically, no group is left unsatirized:
from the idiotic faux-country patriotic music, to know-it-all leftie
actors being portrayed as goon puppets (the more self-important members
of the Tim Robbins and Sean Penn fan clubs may want to skip this), no
group escapes without being ridiculed.

Of course, what one would expect besides savage social commentary is
gross-out humor, and that is present in droves. This has the best
puppet vomiting scene since "Meet The Feebles." In addition, there is:
puppet "marital relations," puppets being blown up, puppets being fed
to cats, puppets being fed to sharks... All the puppets are done in the
style of "Thunderbirds" (the old TV show, not the dismal failure of a
live-action movie). And the songs are hilarious too! "'Pearl Harbor'
sucks and I miss you" is one of the funniest songs you will ever hear.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sure plenty of parochial critics will berate this film for
anti-American values during the current "war on terror"....BUT...the
great thing about this film is that no one is spared being mocked. This
bears the standard of a great film by expressing the ironies innate in
every argument in this quasi-political tale; from socialist Michael
Moore, fashionably charitable celebrities to the terrorists and the,
ahem "world police." This couldn't be more accurately summed up than in
one of the funniest ever analogies that is employed in this film; the
"Dic*s, P*ssies, and a*s*holes, argument." This film also wonderfully
parodies the standard conventions and clich√©'s of the action film genre
to create an entertaining, and gleefully controversial film.
<|_=00=_|>
I love South Park and the straight-faced satire of Matt Parker and Trey
Stone. They always have a humanist and old-fashioned naturalist
approach to show the weaknesses in the limited and fashionable ideas in
modern USA. They do their satire not by exposure, but by explosion: the
ideas blow up in your face. Like when Matt Stone himself, interviewed
in "Making Of South Park", says: "you know, we expect a lot of our
people, but when they show up at the office, we're already there, and
when they leave, we're still there, you know what I mean, and they can
see how hard we work, and that, I think that inspires them, to work all
the harder, for us". He delivers this line with such a straight face
that you are lured into a semiautomatic approval of Calvinist work
ethics, even if you know he's just joking. You might at times even feel
insecure about where the satire ends: is it a joke about a joke? What
does Matt and Trey *actually* think? *Do* they come first to the office
every morning? You can't even save yourself by rolling the eyes and
saying "of course not, you fool".

"Team America: World Police" is a puppet animation which is almost
self-evident by it's title. The world police is a small team of
vigilante puppets that fight world terrorism. In the opening of the
movie you soon see them cheerfully destroy the Eifell tower in a fight
against semitic-looking terrorists in Paris... and you get the joke.
But when they are critized by Hollywood actors for this act of
destruction, the critics are exposed as hypocrites that actually work
for the evil terrorism of the world. In fact, we will see the workings
of a 'republican conspiracy theory' turn real. Typical Matt and Trey!

The movie is a lot of laughs, and makes fun of an endless row of
Hollywood clich√©s and has tons of movie references. The satire is never
done plumply. You will listen to patriotic country music almost
thinking you hear the real thing.
<|_=00=_|>

Just came back from a pre-screening and I 'Loved It' No, it's not for
kids in the least, total adult humor. Helps a bit if your politically
savvy and know a bit about the Hollywood political types, yet either
way, if you like South Park type of humor, your in for a load full of
laughs.

They creatively took most every corny film shot you could think of,
plenty of down right nasty language, marionettes getting shot and blown
up in some pretty disgusting ways, parody songs that would make anyone
blush, pop shots at world leaders, actors (big time), and anyone else
you could think of and hit a home run with this as far as I'm
concerned.

I wont say anymore except that these guys did a great job with this
idea and I think it's going to make a mint! If you take it all in
humorous perspective and not personally, (have some fun with it), this
movie can take the laugh breath right out of you. As it did the whole
audience just within the first 15 minutes without even a chance for a
second breath.

Crude, rude, shrewd, corny, sexual, homophobic, nasty and irreverent
will only begin to describe..."Team America World Police" I hope you
enjoy it.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is crude, rude, politically incorrect, but hell yeah, a
whole lot of fun! Well, what do you expect from the makers of South
Park? 

The setting of the movie is Today - in the wake of 9/11 and of
transnational terrorism. Team America's the world police, equipped with
"Thunderbirds"-like firepower and fancy transportation, whose mission
is to strike at terrorists around the world. And what more, the main
baddie's North Korea's Kim Jong Il and his band of middle eastern
terrorist posse with WMD... hmm... a little too close to reality for
comfort? 

This film is so full of itself/America that it gets most of its laughs
from there. From location settings that takes reference point from
America, to the current inane insensitivity of American forces on
foreign soil, to pointing fingers at bad Intelligence, it is all insane
fun from the beginning when pandemonium strikes, that you start to
wonder who actually does more damage - Team America, or the terrorists
themselves.

Another highlight of this movie is the songs! When you first hear the
Team America Theme, with it's "America! F* YEAH!", you know you'd had
better pay attention to the lyrics of songs to come, some of which
pokes fun at Pearl Harbour, pokes fun at film-making (the use of
montages), and you even have Kim Jong Il doing a solo number! As with
most slapstick comedies, sometimes you just gotta spoof some classics,
which includes Star Wars, Matrix and Top Gun. Also, if you enjoy MTV's
Celebrity Deathmatch, then you'll also enjoy the numerous fight
sequences in Team America, which is just as creative in its
decapitations, and as bloody.

Another infamous scene that got a lot of attention, was the sex scene
between 2 lead puppets. It's no holds barred, puppetry porn. Whatever
positions you can think of, it's mimicked on screen. Moreover, the
conversational dialogue that led them to making love, is totally inane.

Look out for appearances by familiar Hollywood faces, and political
figures like Hans Blix, Tony Blair, etc, used without their kind
permission more like, as they're put in really bad, but hilarious,
light.

America, F* YEAH!
