
OK...I have never actually commented on a movie on IMDb, but this movie
was so great I really felt I had to let people know about it. When I
first read the synopsis of Brick at Sundance I was immediately
interested in seeing it. "Film Noir set in a high school." I started
hearing really terrible reviews of it and almost did not go until the
very last day I could. I am so glad I did. It is a very unique film,
such a refreshing one for people who have seen it all. So if you want
something new and different you will definitely enjoy this. Others may
find it is too over-the top for them--it took me several minutes to
understand what the characters were even saying at first, in their
language that mixed old film noir slang with the new generation of
slang. Its very dark and the sound design will even make a person feel
uneasy. The director linked sound and image in ways I have never seen,
completely enthralling me from beginning to end. This movie is not a
relaxing ride. oh! but there are great comedic and ironic moments as
well! I think a lot of the criticism I heard of this film was that it
was too incomprehensible and unbelievable. I personally really got into
the world of this film and it had me on the edge of my seat until the
very end. It was so enjoyable to buy into the rules of the film
noir/high school drama world and its characters. I did not even
recognize the lead character as that kid from 3rd Rock until the end! I
hated 3rd Rock, but I absolutely loved and believed in his character
here. I loved it! One of my top picks at Sundance this year. sorry I
have never written a review...I hope this reveals something about the
movie. I really, really hope that it gets released soon! It is one of
those interesting movies that could really be a cult classic.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at a sneak preview the other night not knowing what to
expect. To say the least I was pleasantly surprised. Film Noir being
one of my favorite film genre's, "Brick" follows the same story
structure, odd-ball characters, right down to the very smart and quick
paced dialogue of a 30s/40s hard boiled detective thriller. The twist
that lifts it above parody and even a mere homage is the presentation
of these elements with high school kids in Southern California. The
direction by Rian Johnson is very expert and confident in telling the
story, giving the audience smooth and quick editing along with skewed
and distorted camera angles. He manages to maintain suspense throughout
the film, only in a couple of parts letting it drag (the scenes with
the Drama Queen are some of the weakest). The actors are great, the
most memorable being the "villains" Pen and Tugger. Rather than just
being atypical baddies, their portrayals give them depth, sympathy, and
at the same time a degree of likability. Kudos also goes to the actor
who played Brain, the partner of Frye, who is nearly flawless in his
somewhat small role. John Shaft himself, Richard Roundtree, shows up as
the Vice Principal, but it is obvious they only had the budget to hire
him for one day. I have to say this isn't a classic film by any means;
I merely decided to give it such a high rating because it attempts
something different and succeeds fairly successfully. I've been tired
of the mundane films that get released every year, and for once this is
something that is completely different; the use of archetypal
characters in the setting and delivery not expected. It's a low budget
film, but it is obvious to me that that this filmmaker will be heard
from again. Keep an eye out.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film I have been highly anticipating for over a year. After
first hitting the festival circuit in January of 2005 it went through
the cycles, finally getting a stateside limited release at the end of
March 2006. Buffalo, I ask you now to open your eyes to a masterpiece
of cinema as Brick finally debuts at the Amherst Dipson.

Brick is a not a film as much as a symphony where each instrument is
tuned to the beat of the conductor. Each frame is carefully
orchestrated and composed to perfection. The dialogue is metered and
spoken with a contemporary Shakespearean beat. Writer/Director Rian
Johnson has created poetry with his first feature length film. It may
be tough to understand the lingo and overall speech used, but as the
film advances you begin to know the characters and the words just make
complete sense.

We open with the stare of our protagonisthard and piercing, yet on the
verge of tearseyes slowly welling up as he peers down on a motionless
body, facedown in a tunnel's steady, flowing stream. This is film noir
at its best: wrong men and notorious women. Our leader into this
underbelly of society has recently rolled on his boss to skate clean of
a drug deal he was involved with. The cops allow this plea and decide
to keep him in their pocket, with what happened as leverage. He stays
low, nose clean, until an old love brings him into her world as it's
spiraling out of control. Using all his resources around the city, he
begins his search to find her and make sure she is OK. He does this for
his own means, with a stoicism that hearkens back to Bogart's Sam
Spade.

WaitDid I tell you that the city this is set in is a suburban high
school? Johnson has flipped the genre on its head to brilliant effect.
Brendan, our medium into the story, is played to perfection by Joseph
Gordon-Levitt as a senior at the school who has alienated himself by
ratting on his drug supplier. The vice-principal is using him to gain
intel on the dealings around school, but Brendan will have none of it.
He needs to find out what happened to his old flame Emily and see what
she got involved in. Enlisting the help of a colleague, Brendan plays
his enemies off each other to gain access to the mob boss and dope
runner The Pin ("I hear he's supposed to be old, like 26"), whom Emily
has wronged. The truth must be found at all costs, either to assuage
some personal guilt, to rescue love, to do what's right, to get the bad
guys, or maybe all the above. The search for answers leads to betrayal
and secrets uncovered and I was there for the entire ride.

Brick is not the 21st century's answer to Alan Parker's Bugsy Malone.
This isn't a satire on mob life with children playing men. This is a
reawakening of the genre, a subversion of what you expect of it, but
played straight as a razor. None of these actors break character and
lines like this, echoing a hardened criminal telling off an
over-zealous officer, "No more of these informal chats! If you have a
disciplinary issue with me, write me up or suspend me and I'll see you
at the Parent-Teacher conference," are delivered with straight faces
and a piercing confidence. The wit is there and you will laugh to the
seeming absurdity, but the weight of the story holds strong.
Well-placed humor helps you realize the gravity of everything even
more. 

Levitt shines in the role and proves to be the best up-and-coming actor
of his generation. Following pitch-perfect turns as a violent teen in
the wonderful Manic and as a teenage hustler, vagrant in Gregg Araki's
disturbing yet unforgettable Mysterious Skin, Levitt is making bold
choices and continues a great run with Brick. He is flanked with solid
support from "Lost's" Emilie de Ravin as his lost love; Lukas Hass as
The Pin, with loyalty straying muscle Noah Fleiss; Matt O'Leary's The
Brain, Brendan's life-line to what's happening as he sinks deeper; and
Nora Zehetner flawlessly playing the femme fatale which one can never
be sure whether to trust. Also, the accompanying score of piano and
brass jazz fits perfectly to the atmosphere, especially on a late scene
close-up shot of Levitt and Zehetnerfaces close- up, lips with an atom
of air between them, and a single tear slowly following down the
contours of her faceuncannily mimicking the infamous shot of Bogart
and Bergman in Casablanca.

Any cinephile with $8 to spend will regret missing an opportunity to
see this film. If you love film noir of the 50's, 60's, and 70's check
Brick out while you can. Doubtful that it will stay up more than 2 or 3
weeks, it will be coming to DVD on August 8th, however go out and see
this gem. It will not be everyone's cup of tea, but whether you love it
or not, it holds a place on the timeline of cinema as an experiment in
stripping down the essence of noir and showing it in a new and no
longer angelic world of children on the cusp of adulthood. "Here's
looking at you kid."
<|_=00=_|>
Brick Opening shot: A young man squats next to a stream, his head in
his hands. What is he looking at? The body of a young woman, lying half
in the stream. Next we jump to 2 days before, to follow Brendan (Joseph
Gordon-Levitt), an intelligent, cynical high school student,
self-exiled from the cliquish world of jocks, stoners, and socialites.
He is stoically heart-broken 2 months after being dumped by his
girlfriend Emily (Emilie DeRavin), who left him to pursue that world. A
frightened phone call from the missing Emily asking for help and filled
with incoherent references to a "brick" and "the pin" prompts Brendan
to launch back into high school society. He does this in the movie
detective style of Sam Spade ("The Maltese Falcon"), shaking things up
with a relentless directness punctuated by well-timed acts of cunning.
Once found, Emily recants and asks Brendan to forget everything she
said. Of course, we know from the opening scene that things aren't
going to go well for Emily, and by this point we also know that Brendan
isn't likely to back off from anything.

After Emily's death, Brendan starts looking for answers in earnest,
slicing through high school society and the underbelly of suburban
California like a weedwacker. Much like the detectives played by
Humphrey Bogart in "The Maltese Falcon" and "The Big Sleep" this
battered tough-guy keeps shaking the tree until the answers he wants
fall out. His search leads him to the rich femme fatale Laura Dannon
(Nora Zehetner), an underworld kingpin (Lukas Haas), and a handful of
assorted thugs in a completely amoral teenage world. Battered
physically and emotionally, he maintains his cool while playing all
sides against each other in an effort to achieve some justice for the
girl he loved.

In "Brick," writer/director Rian Johnson pays homage in wonderful style
to the classics of noir fiction. Setting the story in the world of
high-schoolers allows him to make use of classic detective story
characters without seeming redundant. We have a beautiful seductress
with ambiguous motives, a dangerous vamp (played brilliantly by Meagan
Good, which sounds like a porno name for some reason), a crime boss and
his hired muscle, and even a Vice Principal who fills the role of the
police captain. Of course, Brendan is the classic loner private eye,
moving through a world of scum but never allowing the dirt to get under
his skin.

Language is both the strength and weakness of "Brick." Johnson drew
heavily from the fiction of Dashiell Hammet (creator of Sam Spade) when
writing the film, and that spare, 1940's style permeates the dialog.
Suffice to say that these kids do not talk like high-schoolers. That's
fine, because a stylized manner of speech suits these extremely cool,
stylized characters and sets the proper mood. On the other hand, while
the story of "Brick" is not wildly original, it is an excellent,
riveting piece of noir fiction which deserves to be appreciated on its
own merits and not just in reference to old Bogart movies. The
Bogartesque lingo is entertaining, but it occasionally distracts from
the story. Also, the linguistic style may simply be confusing and
off-putting to audiences not familiar with the older films on which it
is based.

Interestingly, none of the principal cast members were familiar with
the literary and film sources from which their characters were drawn.
This is remarkable, because their characterizations are so dead on, and
given without a trace of the self-conscious irony that so often passes
for wit. Joe Gordon-Levitt in particular deserves to be a star after
this performance. He appears in every scene of the film, channeling the
best of Humphrey Bogart.

"Brick" won a special Jury Prize at Sundance, and my understanding is
that it has, in fact, been picked up for distribution. I suspect that
despite its quality, it may have difficulty finding an audience. I hope
I am wrong, because it was by far the best film I have seen this year.
5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
The geography of film noir is usually a neighborhood, a city, a region
... BRICK transposes this geography onto a high school with
surprisingly successful results. Watching it brought to mind not only
the black & white films of the 40s and 50s, but glimmers of Gus van
Sant, David Lynch and River's Edge. What gives BRICK its filmic
authenticity (much different from realism) is its language -- the
language of Chandler and Hammett, but re-imagined from the lips of
contemporary teens.

The effect is staggering. BRICK essentially re-creates a world we
thought we knew. Suddenly there are forces at work that we recognize
because we knew they were there. But to see them in this noir glow is
to give them an exciting new life ... "to see them again for the first
time." There are plot twists and surprises aplenty here, although
familiar once you realize the inspirations for the film. But
familiarity is more than compensated by a superb cast and (not
generally noted in these comments) excellent music. Contemporizing the
soundtrack keeps us on our toes and makes a significant contribution to
the tension of BRICK.

A terrific debut!
<|_=00=_|>
'Brick' is a film noir murder mystery featuring contemporary high
school students who talk and behave like 1940's-style gangsters.

I hastily bought a ticket to 'Brick' at the Sundance Film Festival,
knowing nothing about it but what was written in the Sundance catalog.
I almost didn't go to the 9:15am screening but I am so glad I did.
'Brick' was by far the best of the eight films I'd seen up until then.
It's one of those rare movies that keeps me grinning throughout,
delighted by every turn of the grim plot.

The slang is thick but contextual. Watch closely for little camera
tricks like a clock that reads 5:45 until it comes into focus and
suddenly reads 8:30.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this at the Chi. International Film Festival, and must say it
was the best feature film that I have seen all year. Excellent tribute
to the noir genre, with sort of a Raymond Chandler-esquire slant to the
dialog, a sort of hard-boiled type protagonist, and the typical twists,
turns and double crosses that come with the territory. All this while
taking place within the confines of a modern California high-school
social scene. Somehow manages to walk the line of homage, send-up, and
original film incredibly well. Parts were edge-of-your seat, parts had
me cringing with pain or shock, and parts had me in stitches. Well
worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
That's the story, right? Going back to the days of "China Town" with
Jack Nicholson chasing lead after lead, turning corners left and right,
only to find more corners. Who's duping who? We don't know until the
very end in this fast-paced, hipster lingo drenched wild revival of the
classic Black and White Film Noir. Joseph Gordon-Levitt (yes, the kid
from Third Rock) is a brilliant hero/foil as Brendan, the bitingly dry,
quick-witted, scrappy and yet reluctant detective trying to walk his
way through a web of lies, more lies, murder and lots of missing drugs.
His character is bright, he can read a situation like a psychic on
crack, turn things to his favor in seconds and play people as deftly as
he is ultimately played himself. ...And he can take a punch. The plot
turns this way, then that, keeping you constantly guessing as to where
it will take you next. As soon as you think you know what's going on,
you don't. Nora Zehetner is a beautiful and beguiling femme fatale.
"The Brian" (Matt O'Leary), who is constantly feeding Brendan his facts
and keeping him on track, knows his stuff but never let's you know how.
Rian Johnson has written an amazing script and directed it into a
whirlwind experience of near misses, painful betrayal and love/love
lost. The lingo takes a second to catch. I'm reminded of Swingers, had
it been as thrilling as it was funny. The words fall into place and
give the film a slick, quick delivery like the best exchanges between
Bogart and Bergman, Alan Ladd and Veronica Lake. Take all that and drop
it into a dark, starkly brutal modern world... In a high school, of all
places. There's even some quirky humor thrown in, though most of the
laughs from the audience were really nervous release from all the
tension built into the story. A must see.
<|_=00=_|>
An instant classic. At once, it demands respect for its efforts.
Creating an original film amidst the money-press-like formulaic
cookie-cutters is reminiscent an act of rebellion against "the man",
and this film has done a beautiful job of sticking it to 'em.

This is just an example of how a movie should be made, and I don't say
things like that lightly.

Hell, you know it's going to be interesting when Neilson can only
compare and contrast it with things like Memento and Donnie Darko on
their little questionnaire. Rock on for intelligent life out there,
keep it coming! I for one can't wait till it's released so I can watch
for the things I know I missed! -Cognac
<|_=00=_|>
Why does everyone feel they must rave about a movie simply because it
was not made by a major studio? This isn't just a movie about teenagers
and starring teenagers, it looks as if teenagers wrote, produced,
directed, filmed and edited it. Kids with a video camera could have
made a film that looked better. There are way too many holes and
credibility gaps in the story and far too many unsympathetic
characters. They finally show Brendan in some pain, although he
probably should have died from his untended to internal injuries a
third of the way into the film, and the "profoundly moving" and
carefully kept secret revealed at the end was hardly a secret, and not
very meaningful. The use of a single key word as a title has become
rather annoying, but there is a common street term for excrement used
in the movie that would have served just as well.
