
I saw an advance screening of this movie tonight, and I must say it far
exceeded my expectations! Of course, due to the stars involved I knew
there'd be sex appeal. And due to the advertising I knew there'd be
plenty of stuff "gettin' blowed up real good." But what I wasn't
expecting was the tongue in cheek jokes, dark humor, and respectable
plot twist! Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie will only fuel rumors of their
relationship with their performances - their chemistry on screen is
scintillating, to say the least. The allure of each actor as an
individual is undeniable, but when they're together, whether getting
busy or getting pummeled, the screen fairly sizzles. It's a popcorn,
Hollywood movie, of course, and you'll have to get past the fact that
the two leads are the only two among many professional killers who seem
to be decent shots! But the action is kickin, the acting well above
par, the leads luminous, the plot is lots of fun, and the laughs are
plenty. Enjoy! I sure did...
<|_=00=_|>
My God, is everyone who reviews this movie here brain damaged? This
movie's plot crosses the believability line halfway through the feature
and never returns. I like action but I hate action that is this
blatantly dumb. I thought movies like "Sahara" rewrote the dumb action
book but this trash just adds too the new low.

SPOILERS - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- Why on earth did their respective agencies try and secretly set them
up to face each other instead of just flat out eliminating them with
bullets to the head at their offices? It's a good thing those agencies
sent hit men by the dozens who couldn't shoot straight. This whole plot
was extraordinarily dumb.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I start? It looked promising, it had Angelina Jolie and Brad
Pitt co-starring in this picture: what could do wrong? Praised as one
of 2005 sleeper hits, I never got the chance to see this movie at the
cinema, but last month I managed to rent a copy of this movie on DVD. I
like action movies(especially the late 80's/early 90's movies), so
naturally I was excited, 2 hours later I was sitting on my chair
wandering what happened and thinking: were they talking about another
movie? Did I see a different movie? For those who don't know, Mr and
Mrs Smith is about a married couple whom both are hit men working for
different hit men companies without suspecting each other's secret
lives. The premise alone sounds far-fetched, but the start is bad we
are «introduced» to the characters who are comfortably sitting on
couches both talking to the therapist about their ever decreasing
romance,I sensed that something was terribly wrong when by the end of
that extended scene I was feeling sleepy and clueless. I had no idea
who were these characters, nor did I care for them. Eventually after
they find out about their secret lives after a failed hit, they try to
take each other out, only in the end to find out that by telling the
truth it makes their marriage jolt back. It's so sweet when they settle
their differences that you almost forget they are both hit men and that
they don't seemed troubled by the mere though that they both killed for
a living, but yeah, their marriage was going down the drain so t
doesn't matter if they kill for a living(I'm being sarcastic). Even
with all the action I was bored out of my skull nor did I find any of
the gags funny. And wow, the way Columbia is portrayed in the movie is
an example of scriptwriters being dumb as heck, why didn't Angelina
Jolie say anything about this, after she works for the UN and all? The
major insult was after they made up, their companies put a bounty on
them and decided to track them down and take them out, it's just too
bad their aiming and their larger numbers couldn't compare to Brad and
Angelina's super-human speed,resistance,agility and superior
marksmanship. Did I mention I had no idea whom were they exactly
figthing against? We never know who they work for nor who employed
them? They just randomly pop out to fight them. Oh and don't get me
started on the characters, watching Brad Pitt and Angelina on this
movie is painful, they have no chemistry whatsoever, Brad mumbles all
his lines and Angelina is a predictable tomboy stereotype and one-trick
pony. Vince Vaughn's jokes all fall flat, and why is that actor called
The Tank? I've seen pizza delivery boys with a scarier look.To call
these characters "comic book characters", is an insult to them. But why
Brad? Why Angelina? Arnold Scharznegger(who can't act) and Jamie Lee
Curtis(who's hardly a sex symbol)did so much better in True Lies. In
the end, the movie is boring, childish, unfunny and a waste of time,
being nothing more then tabloid fodder for two over-hyped actors. Ranks
as one of the worst actions movies out there, and I've seen xXx 2:
State of the Union and Alone in the Dark. The rental cost me 1.5 and I
would have felt cheated even if it was for free.
<|_=00=_|>
The film was a big disappointment. The actors and actresses did their
jobs well - and they certainly are 'beautiful people' for the screen.
But the screenplay was weak. The dialog was limited. The two main
characters didn't have much to say to each other except "I'd rather be
nowhere else, but right here with you." 

The film relied on the action/comedy formula of explosions, guns, and
fast cars, with an occasional nifty quip, like "Those extra side doors
(on a mini-van) really are handy."

The screenplay does a poor job explaining the situations in which we
find the characters. Why would two lovers try to kill each other? Any
sane person would have tried to talk over the issues - but no - they
try to kill each other and destroy their house while they are at it.
This scene was excessive and went on for what seemed to be a protracted
amount of time. 

Then they fall back in love and proceed to wipe out 52 black clad ninja
assassins armed only with MP5 sub-machine guns and bullet-proof Kevlar
vests. This was the other excessive and gratuitous scene that went on
for a long time. There was also a car chase scene that was good - if
you haven't already seen a movie with a car chase scene in it.

There were a few comedic moments and the movie was two hours of
entertainment - which is why I gave it three stars.

But the screenplay has so many holes it leaks like a sieve. We are left
with too many unanswered questions, e.g., what did Vince Vaughn's
character decide to do at the end? Not kill his friend? Hire killers?
Who do the Smiths work for? Why can't their agencies have them married
and working together?

On the plus side - Angelina fans almost get to see a nip - and there
are plenty of gratuitous bust and leg shots. The S&M queen scene is
'bound' to please fans also. 

I'm glad the kids weren't with us. For excessive violence and adult
situations the film should have been rated 'R'.
<|_=00=_|>
Cheesy story, boring as-if action that's been done a million times,
what else can I say, just lame Hollywood garbage at its finest. I'm
glad I got to see this for free, because it was really a waste of time.
There is only one good part, and that is when Mr. Smith hits a guy in
the head with a golf club. Other than than the movie does not offer
anything more than a few shots of Lip Lady (Jolie) in fish nets for all
the guys who think she is hot (c'mon, she really is just plain freakish
with all that plastic surgery) and some shots of Brad Pitt with his
shirt off for all the 14 year old girls who will probably go see this
movie for that reason alone. This movie would have been better if they
would have actually killed each other, and thus, brought the film to an
end after about 40 minutes. I gave Mr. & Mrs. Smith a 4/10 because at
least it was produced well and had some decent stunts and special fx,
but other than that, I would say it is almost as bad the The Matrix 2
and 3.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a daaaamn fun movie! Heh. To all the critics, yes, there are a
lot of explosions, gunfire, unrealistic battles, plenty of times where
you think "they MUST have been hit by a bullet by now..there is noo
effin way...", and over-dramatized violence, but there's plenty of good
stuff too that should not be ignored.

Probably the best part about this movie is the couple. I know it's been
said before, but it's so true that I'm gonna repeat: Brad Pitt and
Angelina Jolie have incredible chemistry. It's no wonder they're still
together today. Even when the movie couple, John and Jane Smith, where
in their "off period" of marriage, you could feel something between the
two. They are an amazing screen couple, they work incredibly well
together. Their dialogue is just right...when one says something to the
other, it's smooth and real. And of course, Pitt and Jolie are both
extremely attractive, so they're fun to watch. Haha.

The plot is all right..nothing extraordinary. It's a typical action
movie plot, simple enough to leave plenty of room for the battle shots
and violence. Nothing special. The dialogue wasn't bad, it wasn't lame
action movie words. No stupid puns or anything. There was really nice
cinematography, some shots that really were stunning. Usually the
emotional aspect of action movies is dense and easy, cliché and boring,
but I liked it in this movie. You could tell that they really loved
each other, yet at the same time were committed to their jobs. You
could feel the conflict.

I own this movie and I'm glad I do. It's a good time. I recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
What a terrible movie. It reminded me a lot of "America's Sweethearts"
because that starred A-list Hollywood actors trying to be funny in
completely predictable and ridiculous situations. This movie is exactly
the same, it has nothing new to offer. It is very standard formulaic
fare, a popcorn movie of the worst sort, which is not even in the least
bit amusing. Yes, both Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie are attractive
actors, but that is about it. The rest of the movie is a waste and
makes no sense at all.

Their agencies send them on a hit to take each other out because they
are married to each other?????? Did they not think that perhaps one
MIGHT see the other and MIGHT not shoot them because they were MARRIED?
Gee, that sounds like a solid plot. Or how about Jolie jumping off the
roof while holding her handbag with one arm? I can take incredulous
stunts, but not when they make fun of the audience. That was as bad as
many of the ridiculous stunts in Charlie's Angels 2. And as many
reviewers pointed out, they are apparently the only people their
agencies employ who can shoot straight (didn't Schwartzenegger already
do that to death in Commando?).

And what about the bit when she said her "Temps" did all the cooking?
So are we supposed to believe the temps had been living in their
basement for 6 years delivering food via the magic elevator oven but
Brad Pitt never noticed? What happened to his honed hit-man senses? And
she has made 312 hits in the past and he never once wondered where she
might be? Presumably if she dresses as a hooker for her MO, she would
probably be better off whacking guys at night, but I guess old Brad is
a sound sleeper. And why pick 312 anyway? That is an impossibly high
number which equates to 1 a week for 6 years. Guess no one else ever
figured out someone was offing people..... I know, I know, it was just
a summer popcorn movie, but how about a little effort on the script? I
mean the Jackal spent months, if not years, setting up his one single
hit! I actually laughed out loud when she said 312, having just
predicted the entire conversation.

And I won't even start about the 97 guys dressed in black they whack,
fortunately only Pitt and Jolie were smart enough to wear bulletproof
vests whereas the trained assassins, (who had planned the raid),
arrived wearing apparently bullet-seeking outfits, have never heard of
cover, and whose strategy appears to be running into an endless spray
of bullets. The entire movie was fantastically frustrating. There was
no attempt to make any sense at all of the plot, even the beginning was
ridiculous. The Columbian police were looking for a lone assassin,
therefore because Jolie joins Pitt at the bar, it can't be her???? Come
on, how about a little effort?!! There was not even any good humour, it
was all the one-liner obvious put-down type.

Just terrible. It's drivel, tripe, brutal. They made them out to be too
cool, too tough, and too perfect, and all they ended up being was
moronic, sickening, and smarmy.

Sigh.
<|_=00=_|>
Mr. & Mrs. Smith is a story of a husband and wife who are working as
assassins, unbeknownst to each other, and not surprisingly, are in
therapy to save their marriage. Ironically, they both believe their
lives together are too boring.

John Smith (Brad Pitt) meets Jane (Angelina Jolie) while both are in
danger of being exposed in a foreign country, while working. They are
both experienced assassins at the time and go with the flow, and
eventually falling for each other. Neither tells the other what they
actually do for a living.

Needless to say, they find each other out and both agencies who they
work for, give the order to kill the other within 48 hours. Thus, the
hijinx ensue. Both are vying for control and to discover how much the
other actually knows. Upon finding that they both know everything, a
full on mini-war begins.

This movie has a little bit of everything. The Smiths are not without
their humorous sides, especially Brad Pitt. Also, there are a few good
fight scenes, between The Smiths along with some others. There are a
few nice weapons to be admired here, as well as some very nice eye
candy (I am talking about Miss Jolie, but I hear the ladies are fond of
Brad, also). Also, I would like to give an honorable mention to Vince
Vaughn as Eddie. I feel his performance was funny, but too small for
this movie.

This movie is a fun little romp through the house with some nice action
scenes. Recommended if you would like a somewhat toned down True Lies.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Movies, like books, can't be judged by the packaging. When it came out
in '05, the reviews were above average, but didn't appear to ring
everybody's chimes so I avoided seeing it.

Buying the DVD seemed like a safe bet when it came out. It had lots of
action and two marquee stars. But having been burned buying movies I
hadn't seen - Sideways, Lost In Translation (O.K., not burned but a bit
disappointed) - I passed. I'd wait till it dropped below $10.

Time passed and now it's on T.V. I happened to be flipping channels
when I stumbled on its opening scene at the marriage councilor. Right
away I was hooked. It had the marriage milieu nailed in a few minutes,
like Orson Welles in Citizen Kane: the awkward questions and answers,
the poorly disguised discomfort, the seething resentment.

It got even better with the banality of home life: the glaring
silences, the perfunctory politeness, the stilted discourse, the hidden
frustration, ennui, equivocation, avoidance, and interior decorating
conflicts. Maybe you actually have to be married to appreciate how true
the representation was.

Then the plot twists that accentuated the facade. More twists. Don't
let your guard down for an instant, or you may get killed! The subtle,
pleading moments. Like when Jane hangs up on him in the car. Additional
twists and action all the way into a grand finale with scads of
bullets, bombs, etc.

Is the true love of shared experience beyond the banality of everyday
life realized? Well, you have to see the movie.

Yes, the plot is complicated, and sometimes doesn't make sense, like
marriage, but on closer inspection reveals hidden reservoirs of true
feeling and connection.

I guess I had overlooked a great film, just like John and Jane had
overlooked each other.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the movies that makes me want to move to Paris learn
french and forget all about the idea of "Hollywood". I went to this
film because i was forced, i tried to fight but it was no good and
thought to myself "ok i'll give in it can't be that bad maybe the
action will be good" - WRONG.

The film revolves around two assassins who don't know they are married,
god knows how anyone thought that was a good idea but you i just like
to think they were very drunk or stoned.

The story is diabolical and the acting is some of the worst i have seen
since Vin Diesel made his debut. The whole idea of assassins is quite a
dark one which has been dealt with, seriously - Leon, comically - Point
Blank, by many of films greatest talents. The only time it is discussed
in the movie both characters say they never feel guilty this shows the
kind of macho American attitude which has ruined Hollywood.

I walked out of the cinema with a tear in my eye, no wonder Bush won
the election with Hollywood displaying such Jung ignorance. I made a
mental note of the director, Doug Liman planning to avoid all further
outings of this buffoon.

To calm my nerves i went home to watch my favourite film in this genre,
The Bourne Identity,when the credits rolled my nerves were calmed
"Hollywood can make good films" i thought, and then i saw it: DIRECTED
BY DOUG LIMAN My head span: how could this be? the same man behind the
beautifully satisfying motion picture i had just watched was behind the
travesty i had witnessed earlier at my local multiplex? And then i came
to a satisfying conclusion - it was Hollywood as i knew there was a
strong European presence on the Bourne Identity. With this in mind i
slept tight content in the fact that i am English and have no problems,
unlike many Americans, with European and french cinema.

My advice: DO NOT GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!
