
I saw it at a German press screening. Without giving too much away:
Most critics really seemed to like it very much. There was even
applause afterwards, which is quite unusual for that species. From my
point of view and until now, it was the funniest movie of the year. It
keeps the charm and wit of the three W+G shorts and it is enlarged with
many references to these and other movies. Of course, there are obvious
allusions to monster- and werewolf-movies, especially to "An American
Werewolf in London", "Jaws", "King Kong" and even to Peter Jackson's
"Braindead"/"Dead Alive", but also to other genres.

Characterization was better done in "Chicken Run", but that movie had a
complete new "cast" where introduction was necessary. Here, you are
already able to know the two main characters. So, the new "Wallace and
Gromit"-movie is enjoyed best if you watched (and liked) the shorts
already, yet it also works on its own. "Chicken Run" had the more
convenient, but also more "storytelling" plot. Instead, this new
Aardman masterpiece keeps that crazier and somehow more "isolated"
feeling of the W+G shorts. Children should also enjoy it very much,
especially because of the sweet rabbits (if you love cute bunnies, this
is a must-see for you!!!) and because Gromit has a lot do to and really
steals the show (children also love dogs... :-) ). But many jokes are
thought for a more adult audience (there are even soft sexual allusions
in it). The movie manages, like "Shrek 1+2" and "The Incredibles", to
fulfil high level entertainment for the whole family, with adding a
British and at least a little bit darker edge to the humour of American
animated movies.

The animation is  as expected  superb, and they kept true to the
Aardman style because they didn't put in too many digital effects - I
realized just a few when it came to Wallace's inventions.

Finally, the score works fine in the movie, although one of the main
themes definitely is "borrowed" by Randy Edelman's "Dragonheart" score.

The bad thing is: It will probably take another six years from now
until we can see a new animated gem from Nick Park & Co.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a "Wallace and Gromit-fan", I was looking forward for this
full-length movie. Surprisingly I saw it at THE world-premiere in
Vlissingen (NL), at the Film by the Sea festival. A wonderful feeling
to be one of the first to see this very amusing and merry movie. It's
about Wallace and Gromit (whom I believe don't need an introduction)
having their own pest-control company in the city which is hosting a
giant-vegetable contest in a few days. Everyone, including an eccentric
baroness, is hoping his or her giant carrot or melon will win the
Golden carrot. Unfortunately the town is plagued by lots of hungry
rabbits. This is where W&G come in. The have their own cracking
contraptions to control these cute creatures in a human way.

It's a very funny and colorful story. Anyone who liked the three
proceeding short movies of W&G (which are more than great!), will love
this full-length movie. Nick Park really delivered a wonderful and
original result with a great sense for humor. Like in Chicken Run, it
truly amazes me how he can capture so much story and emotions in just a
few frames. "Job well done, lad" ;-) Oh yeah: The music was fantastic!
It really completes the ride. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
This first (and hopefully not last) Wallace & Gromit feature lives up
to expectations. There are plenty of jokes (some a bit cheeky) as well
as some great tributes to past Science Fiction movies. With the barrage
of awful and formulaic movies being spewed forth from Hollywood it's
great to see such a great film like this that's enjoyable for almost
everyone. If there is any justice it will be top of the box-office and
be at least nominated for best animation at the next Oscars. The
animation is wonderful; the characters are remarkably expressive and
their adventures are great fun. This is one of those films that the
whole family can enjoy. Charming, clever, fun and well made, what's not
to enjoy?
<|_=00=_|>
Wallace and Gromit are the main characters in some of the best cartoons
ever crafted. The excellent mix of visual humor and claymation makes "A
Grand Day Out," "The Wrong Trousers," and also "A Close Shave" some of
the best animated footage ever put on television. Winning several
Oscars and also countless other awards, Nick Park became quite the
popular man in the U.K., yet his impact on the United States has not
been big. After the third Wallace and Gromit short, there was all this
speculation about a full-length Wallace and Gromit movie, yet for years
nothing had happened. Then in 2000 instead of a full-length Wallace and
Gromit film, we get another brilliant claymation film from Nick Park,
which was Chicken Run, which almost got nominated for best picture in
the Academy Awards. Perhaps it was the success of this film that
ultimately drove Park to finally work on a Wallace and Gromit project.

5 years later (these kinds of films do take long you know) and a lot of
anticipation, Wallace and Gromit finally hits the big screen. Despite
the rather weak trailers and marketing campaign, this movie delivers in
so many ways. This film will be a delight for both kids and parents.
With tons of adult humor hidden beneath the brilliant animation,
Wallace and Gromit: Curse of the Were-Rabbit is one of the few films
that perfectly manages to equally appeal to both kids and adults. This
rather difficult technique is one that only Pixar has already perfected
and DreamWorks has had a lot of trouble doing lately. Despite the
DreamWorks logo slapped onto the poster, this film is mainly from the
very creative staff of Aardman Animations.

Wallace and Gromit are first seen running a business that protects the
townspeople's crops from being ruined by rabbits, which apparently had
been running around wild and in great numbers lately. Their business
has gotten them plenty of respect from the others living in the town
because a gigantic vegetable contest was rapidly approaching and the
crops needed protection. Complications arise when Wallace attempts to
manipulate the rabbits into not liking vegetables and then a great
eating machine is unleashed on the area. It is up to Wallace and Gromit
to find the gigantic animal and stop it from eating away through
gardens and also their approval from the townspeople. To add to that,
Wallace wants to impress Lady Tottington, which also captured the
attention of a snobby suitor by the name of Victor. Simple plot yes,
but there is more than meets the eye, be prepared for a few fun
surprises along the way, kind of like in the other Wallace and Gromit
cartoons.

In animated films with little dialogue, it is the animation that has to
set the pacing and the mood of the film. Despite requiring 5 years to
produce only 85 minutes of footage, the payoff is fantastic. There is a
massive amount of detail that requires more than one viewing to truly
notice. Even more incredible than the detailed and nearly flawless
animation is the truly unspeakable amount of visual humor put into the
film. Whether it is a creatively placed shot or normal labels put into
the funniest position possible, or it is the oh-so-adorable rabbits
that is constantly shown in the film, most Curse of the Were-Rabbit's
humor comes strictly from just watching the movie itself and catching
all the references before it is too late. Just picture the movie
Madagascar, except funnier much fewer pop culture references, and
better animation.

Casting was great, even though in a film with not much dialogue, it was
not that important. Peter Sallis yet again does a wonderful job as
Wallace, even though in this movie there was no stand-out quote that
can be used anytime (The Wrong Trousers: "It's the wrong trousers
Gromit, and they've gone wrong!"). Ralph Fiennes does a superb job as
the lead villain Victor and also Helena Bonham Carter (known as the
crazy female lead in the cult hit "Fight Club") lends her lovely voice
as she plays Wallace's love interest. Even though nothing could top the
final chase in "The Wrong Trousers," Curse of the Ware-Rabbit did have
plenty of action scenes, including one fantastically done chase scene
between Gromit and Victor's evil dog. Last but not least, the rabbits
really steal the show at some moments. Whether it is their cute
expressions, their funny movements, or their howling, the rabbits in
the film even take some of the glory from the main stars. The funniest
rabbit in the movie is the "cursed" rabbit himself, to the very end of
the movie he had the audience rolling in laughter.

Bottom Line: Despite not being as memorable as "The Wrong Trousers",
this film is just as good and entertaining as Chicken Run. Unlike
almost every movie to come out this year, the movie does not drag at
all, clocking in at a short 85 minutes yet containing so much joy and
fun, it will leave everyone watching it asking for more. There is very
little wrong with the film; it was a pure delight to watch. This film
is a total contrast of the decent yet vulgar, uncut, raw movies that
have made a surprising amount of money earlier this year (40-Year-Old
Virgin, Wedding Crashers, and Sin City) and for families and those who
want harmless entertainment; that is a good thing. Highly recommend,
this is the top animated movie to come out this year and among the best
we have seen this decade. Wallace and Gromit: Curse of the Were-Rabbit:
totally harmless fun from second 1 to second 5,100.
<|_=00=_|>
A very enjoyable film. You can see there's much more subtlety in the
characters with regard to facial expressions. The voice actors did a
great job, and there are some great gags, some of which are not for
children, but are not overt in their adult-ness. Much more empathy for
the characters in this film than in Chicken Run. Fortunately, the film
is still wonderfully British, so has not suffered from Dreamworks'
influence on the production. It is also good to see something
hand-crafted on the big screen instead of the raft of CG animated films
that usually lack a strength of script; that you could see fingerprints
in the plasticine in no way detracted from the quality of the
production.
<|_=00=_|>
What-ho! This one is jolly good. I say jolly good, ol' chap. Or should
I say "ol' bean"? My mastery of British terminology is a little dusty.
Anyway, my biker boots and I walked into this screening with no prior
viewing experience of Wallace and Gromit. I'm happy to say that my
boots and I walked out pleased to have made their acquaintance.

While not as adult-accessible as Toy Story, W & G still manages to be
clever enough to provide the grown ups with a little humor that will
most definitely soar over the heads of the young 'uns who are too busy
guffawing at the Were-rabbit's belches to have any clue that something
is amiss. I highly suggest that you pay close attention any time you
see books or words on the screen because there are quick glimpses of
puns that you'll miss if you aren't paying attention. My favorite is a
book of monsters that refers to the Loch Ness Monster as "tourist
trappus." If you've ever been known to say, "I can really relate to
Kevin Federline," or if you're just illiterate then not only will you
miss out on these jokes, but you probably should be spending your time
learning to read instead of going to movies. Consider this a public
service announcement.

The most impressive aspect about W & G is its clay animation. Thanks to
the tedious process, it took FIVE YEARS to finish the film! According
to the press notes, there were some days when the optimum goal was to
merely accomplish 10 seconds of completed film. Folks, I sometimes have
trouble finding the motivation to finish responding to a handful of
emails or adding captions to pictures for my reviews (a point that is
proved by a lack of pictures in this review); so I can't even imagine
having the required patience for that.

I really like the rough, hands-on quality of the claymation figures.
The fact that you can see fingerprints in the clay is a nice, personal
touch. How can you not be impressed with clay characters that show more
expression and emotion than Paul Walker and Keanu Reeves combined? The
Curse of the Were-rabbit is, as director Nick Park calls it, the
world's first vegetarian horror movie that should entertain both kids
and adults alike. Relying on (and as a male who prides himself in his
shaggy-haired, cool-bearded masculinity I hesitate to use this word)
cute and (oh man, I probably shouldn't use this word either) lovable
characters rather than outdated M.C. Hammer references, W & G is proof
that DreamWorks can create entertaining animation when it chooses
cleverness over the cheap joke.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a few aspects to Park's movies, and in particular Wallace &
Gromit, that I would say make them so great. The first is subtlety and
observation, the flagship of which is the character of Gromit. He
doesn't speak, he doesn't make any noise, all he has are his eyes,
brow, and body posture, and with these he commands the film. Park
manages to give us everything we need from this silent character
through his expression. The comedy and the emotion is conveyed through
the subtlest of movements and it works superbly well.

Watching the movie you have to be aware of the entire screen. Normally
you'll be guided to things in the movies, the screen won't be cluttered
too much, there won't be many things to take your eyes away from the
main clue or action. Park seems to need to look the other way with his
movies. He throws extra content at his audience, there's action in the
background, to the side of the screen, even off screen, and there's
just about always something in the foreground to catch your eye. His
movies are about multiple viewing and discovery, they're layered with
jokes and ancillary action.

Throughout this film there are layers of things happening on screen,
jokes in the foreground maybe on a jar label and background shadows
that give away action. You can imagine that for Park the movies has
always been an event, and the movies he loves are ones which he wants
to watch again and again. This is what shows in his movies, and in
through his most beloved characters.

Then there are the bizarre and wacky inventions which Wallace make,
something which is reflected in the storyline and the twists and turns
of the plot, everything is bizarre and off the wall, yet it seems so
perfectly normal in this world. You can imagine that inside Park is the
mind of Wallace.

There's also one more thing that make these movies so unique, and
that's the modelling and precise hand animation. I must admit I was
concerned when I knew Dreamworks was involved in the making of this
movie, and I thought that they would bring their computer animation
experience to the forefront. What I was scared of was Wallace & Gromit
becoming CGI entities, or at the smallest, CGI being used to clean up
the feel that the modelling brought to the movie.

Not so. You can still see thumbprints and toolmarks on the characters,
and far from distracting from the movie, this just adds so much real
feeling to it and a feeling of physical depth to the characters and the
scene on screen.

So what of the movie? Well I must say that the plot twist was something
I had thought about well before the film was in the cinema and it came
as no surprise, but that did not affect my enjoyment one little bit.
Actually watching the twist unfold and the comic timing of the
discovery and reactions was everything, and it had me just as sucked in
as if it was a thriller, yet all the time I was laughing.

Watching the movie was fascinating in various ways. To see the
animation completed, how wild the inventions are, how Wallace is going
to get into trouble and Gromit get him out, where all the cross
references are in the movie, and where all the jokes are! I must admit
afterwards talking with my friends I couldn't believe how much I had
missed.

There's something different in this movie than with the others, there's
a new level of adult humour in here, and I don't mean rude jokes
(although there are a couple that are just so British you can't help
laughing), I mean jokes that simply fly over kids heads but slap adults
in the face. The kind you are used to seeing come out of somewhere like
Pixar. This just adds even more appeal to the movie.

Okay though, let me try and be a bit negative here. I didn't notice the
voices in this movie, you know how you usually listen to the actors and
see if you can recognise them? Well I was just too wrapped up in the
movie to care or to notice who they were...okay, that's not negative.
Let me try again. The main plot wasn't as strong and gripping as I'd
expected, and I found myself being caught up in the side stories and
the characters themselves...again...that's not a bad thing, the film
was just so much rich entertainment.

I honestly can't think of a bad thing to say about this movie, probably
the worst thing I could say is that the title sequence at the end is
quite repetitive...until the final title! Really, that's the worst I
can say.

The story is a lot of fun, well set-up, well written, well executed.
There's lot's of fantastic characters in here, not just Wallace &
Gromit. There's so much happening on screen, so many references and
jokes (check out the dresses of Lady Tottingham), cheese jokes
everywhere, jokes for all the family. The characters are superbly
absorbing and you'll find that you've taken to them before you realise.
There's just so much in this movie for everyone.

There's so much I could say and write about, but I know it will quickly
turn into a backslapping exercise for Park and Aardman, it would also
just turn into a series of "this bit was really funny" and "there's a
bit when...", and what I would rather do is tell you that this is a
superb movie, to go see it, and to experience the whole thing for
yourselves. I will say though that the bunnies are excellent!
<|_=00=_|>
When Wallace and Gromit burst onto the scene in their academy award
winning short, "A Grand Day Out," they created a fresh new look at
claymation. After two more shorts, Aardman's dynamic duo returned for
this thoroughly enjoyable and entertaining movie. It has an excellent
Voice cast, humorous jokes and good animation as only Aardman could do! 

In this movie, Wallace and Gromit run "Anti-Pesto," a rabbit removal
company. When word gets out about a "Were-Rabbit" eating all the
vegetables in town, a frenzy ensues. Of course, Victor Quartermaine,
the town's handsome, toupee-brandishing huntsman, wants to get his
hands on the rabbit to impress the lovely Lady Tottington...but can our
favorite Aardman duo save the day before chaos ensues?

The jokes, I should say, were hilarious. One point, the villain, Victor
Quartermaine's, booty-crack was showing, prompting a character to cry
out: "BEWARE...THE MOON!!!" Vintage Aardman!

The characters are crisp and hilarious. Our favorite Aardman team of
Man and Dog entertains us as only they could do, earning them their
second Oscar (remember "A Grand Day Out?"). Helena Bonham Carter was
terrific as the lovely Lady Tottington, Wallace's love interest. Ralph
Fiennes was especially funny and foreboding as the cunning, toupee
wearing hunter Victor Quartermaine. But the one who really stole the
show was the priest, whose antics proved to be some hilarious comic
relief. 

Hats off to Aardman for creating another Wallace and Gromit
masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>
I really refused to see this movie. I refused to go with the school and
I refused to go with my parents. Just by looking at the trailer it
looked stupid, to me anyway. One of my friends wanted to take me to the
movies that day and he offered me 2 choices, "The Dukes Of Hazzard" or
"Wallace And Gromit: The Curse Of The Were-Rabbit." It took me 17
minutes to decide. Time was running out. I had to choose. It came up on
the screen "Few" as in a few tickets left. By the time we had to line
up and get our ticket, only one of us could go in. I desperately wanted
Nicholas to go in to see it. But he forced me. I crossed my arms and
was very moody and disappointed that I was going in to see this
childishness. I walked in, sat in the only seat that was available and
prepared for the movie! must say I was very surprised that I sat
through that MASTERPIECE! It was amazing. I don't know what I was
complaining about. The Clay Animation was by far the most best i've
ever seen in my life. The story was brilliant. About a rabbit
disrupting and crashing a carnival that had been planned for over 500
years. Basically Anti Pest Control are protecting the people who are
competing in the Vegetable Competition. Anti Pesto known as Wallace And
Gromit (Who are in charge of this business) try to keep all the rabbits
away from the Vegetable carnival. I wont say anymore. It's just too
good to tell. I'll admit that the whole idea of a Were-Rabbit is ab-it
unbelievable and ab-it childish, but Nick Park adds substance to it
which what makes everyone love it. I mean, there wont be a 10 foot
rabbit on the loose and there definitely wont be 8 foot werewolves as
said in " Dog Soldiers." Then again, Were-Rabbits and WereWolves aren't
actual creatures. But either way, it worked out very well. 

The jokes also were more grown up. The kids wont get some of the jokes.
It goes way above their heads. It had a lot of British jokes in there.
If you love British humor, this is the movie for you.

I also loved the cast and the voices. Everything about the movie is so
incredibly well done. The direction and pacing was
absolutely...FANTASTIC! I recommend this to fans of the old Wallace And
Gromit shorts (And no, I haven't seen them yet), and I recommend it to
fans who liked "Shrek" and "Shrek 2 and most importantly, I recommend
it to the people who love Clay Animation. Cracking good movie! 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
WALLACE & GROMIT: THE CURSE OF THE WERE-RABBIT (2005) **** (Voices:
Peter Salis, Ralph Fiennes Helena Bonham Carter)

Fantastic Feats of Clay: Wallace & Gromit Save the Day! Crackin' Good
Entertainment!

Nick Park, the creator of the animated team of Wallace & Gromit, is a
genius. His painstaking art in the form of Plasitcine claymation is a
unique process involving literally thousands of hours (it takes roughly
an 8 hour work day to contribute 3 minutes of action to a film; this
foray into feature length storytelling took 5 years!) in making his
lovable master & loyal dog team take form is finally on the big screen
in the duo's first full-length motion picture and it's cracklin' good
(to coin a phrase from Wallace's usual reply to all things good!) 

Park, who co-directed with Steve Box and co-wrote with Mark Burton and
Bob Baker, sends up the horror genre in this rollickingly funny and
swift paced action comedy with the geeky inventive Wallace (voiced by
British vet thespian Salis) and his mute yet loyal (and sharper-minded)
mutt Gromit (all furrowing eyebrows and mouth-less insouciance) have
devised a service to their community: pest control ("Anti-Pesto" as
they are known) for the upcoming Giant Vegetable Festival that has the
entire town in the mood for all things vegetative a gigante and the
biggest pesk are troublesome rabbits eating the crunchy goods.
Wallace's inventive mind has created a vacuum container that is quick,
efficient, and more importantly harmless to the cute vermin that plague
the estate of Lady Campanula Tottington (voiced by Bonham Carter,
making a fast-break to be the first lady of stop-motion animation what
with her earlier turn in "Corpse Bride" a few weeks ago), who is
housing the competition and is a love interest for the nerdy Wallace.

The only fly-in-the-ointment is vainglorious, bombastic loud-mouth and
jerk Victor Quartermaine (voiced by Fiennes, his first attempt in the
animated arts coming across as a Patrick Stewart lunged braggard with
hilarious results), a badly toupeed wearing macho moron who is plotting
to marry Lady Tottington for her riches while he is a chief competitor
to W&G's humane attempts by resorting to his trusty guns and nasty
bulldog.

To add insult to injury the duo are facing a terrible plight in the
form of a huge were-rabbit (the titular monster a nice nod to both
Universal and Hammer horror flicks) that is terrorizing the village and
devouring every veggie in sight. The two set out to trap and dispose of
the creature but there is more than meets the eye as things progress.

Relentlessly funny and with such amazing elastic, and kinetic energy to
his wonderful clay counterparts, Park and Box have created a truly
magical and highly entertaining film with so much amazingly detailed
production design to their little world that it may take more than one
screening to absorb just how much effort in their blood, sweat and
tears have gone into making this instant classic for children of all
ages. 

Wallace, the cheese loving balding inventor, could easily be Homer
Simpson's UK cousin with his rotund body and constant knack for getting
things wrong while attempting to do the right thing; his heart is in
the right place but his head is in the clouds. His sweet crush for Lady
Tottington (resembling a pre-plastic surgery Carol Burnett) who is a
head taller than our hero will perhaps remind those of their first
unrequited love with a smile of awkward admission. His Rube
Goldberg-like gift for making the complicated into ease is inspired
lunacy that fans will recall from the earlier shorter films "The Wrong
Trousers", "A Close Shave" and "A Grand Day Out".

But it is in my opinion the wise, silent and long-suffering Gromit, his
poached egg eyes of slow-burns and disbelief at what is transpiring, is
one of the best animated characters ever created with such an amazing
arsenal of exasperated, mouthless expressions and subtle nuances that
most live-action actors would kill to accomplish in the attempt of
conveying dismay, concern, grief, genuine surprise and relief. His
final chase  a signature of the immensely popular comic team  is
ingeniously set and quickly improvised especially his literal dog-fight
with the equally soundless bulldog with tenacity, wit and a Chuck Jones
fueled smartness that would have Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger
green with envy.

Wallace and Gromit match the best of Laurel & Hardy, Abbott & Costello
and any other classic comedy team that comes to mind; here's hoping
their longevity continues on screen for just as long as their
predecessors. The waiting is most eager.
