
The movie trailers were promising. The premise was semi-promising.
Oddly enough both the premise and the trailers were scarier than this
sequel to The Ring. Yes, the original Japanese director returns and he
conveys the images and symbolism very well, but he does not provide
anything engaging here. The two movies do not seem to necessarily
connect. It's almost as if they remade the first Ring with a few
additions. There is not a lot of new material presented here. The movie
tries to scare us by using either the same or similar events from the
first. The ominous music playing throughout the film and the fact that
this sequel was made so nonsensically are scarier than the movie
itself. There are too many things that occur that you just have to
accept without explanation. And then after the movie's done, you'll be
left with plenty of questions including how the first one relates to
this one. I cannot place some of those questions here without spoiling
anything, so I'll leave that up to you. Okay, let's move away from the
negative and talk about the few positives this film has. The acting is
much better than the average horror film and, as stated before, the
images are presented very well. The visuals are nice and you come to
slightly care about some of the characters, although most of them do
ridiculous things. Other than that, I cannot think of much else to say
that is good. This movie was just disappointing. Do not watch this with
high expectations unless you are easily scared and jump at the "sudden"
music and scenes. The first Ring was good. It was different and
well-made. I did not find it particularly scary, but bizarre. This just
relies on music and jump surprises. Fear doesn't even come half circle
in this film. If you liked the first Ring and expect to see much more
about the story, you may be disappointed as well. But if you only want
to see a different version of part one, then you may enjoy this sequel.
Good luck =) 

4.8/10 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
Naomi Watts could not save this. Not even a descent performance by
herself could save this this mish mash of a sequel that had the same
affect as Exorcist II: The Heretic. By the climax, EVERY one around me
in the theater was laughing. No joke. The dialogue becomes unbearably
tedious and the plot becomes atrociously abstruse. The film follows
Rachel Keller into Oregon where she tries to forget the events of the
first one, but then Samara shows up wanting a mommy... and that is the
point of the film. All that CGI crap for absolutely nothing. And that
is exactly what this film is. No, really, I am not going to dignify
this film with a review worth reading. I am sure Naomi Watts would
rather have changed Samara's diaper then done this film!

This film honestly has no guts, spunk, or attitude that the first film
had. This film is a bunch of special effects covering up a paper thin
plot.

Avoid like the plague!!

1 Star!
<|_=00=_|>
The one sentence review of this movie is that it sucks. Pretty straight
up. But no one likes the criticism "sucks." They want reasons. Allow
me.

CGI deer. A whole whack of them. A whole whack of unexplained CGI deer.
One wonders if they couldn't find horses to continue the story from the
first movie so they figured fake deer was the way to go for part 2. And
just to try to make it seem like it wasn't 100% lame and irrelevant
they toss in antlers at the Morgan homestead. Oh, well then, it all
makes sense now. Or not.

Did anyone even listen to what Samara's birth mother said? She tried to
kill her baby cuz the kid told her to in her head. Just like Rachel's
son told her to in her head. To get rid of the thing inside her. So the
"thing" in Aiden isn't even Samara, it's just some damn nameless thing
the writer's never explain beyond a casual line about some watery world
beyond that possessed Samara as a baby. OK....whatever...

Samara wants a mommy. You know what I want? Some friggin Vicodine to
slip me into a drug induced coma so I can wipe the memory of that lame
as lame plot contrivance out of my head. But wait, it gets worse... she
wants to watch TV with her mom. That's about it.

Excuse me, I need to go yank some of my hair out.

This thing from some nether world that can make things happen with the
power of its mind gets killed in a well, comes back from the dead
through VHS tapes and murders people within 7 days of witnessing said
tapes then inexplicably possesses a living boy.....cuz she wants to
watch TV with her mom? Who the hell wrote that? What drooling,
mittens-pinned-to-his-coat, Scooby-Doo-lunch-box-carrying, lazy-eyed,
fat-necked, Lysol-huffing, ice-cream-smeared-on-his-face, laughing at
the antics of Uncle Joey on Full House idiot wrote that? That is one of
the dumbest things I have ever seen in my life.

Does she want to kill millions? Does she want to inflict suffering on
mankind? Eat the living? Make a race of obedient slaves? Reign in
darkness? No, she wants to watch friggin cartoons from the 50's and eat
sammiches with ma on the sofa. The mind reels at the absolute idiocy.

So, to reiterate, this movie sucks. Do yourself a favour and stay away.
If you hated the first one, this one will make you wish you were
stricken blind by burning embers before you put the DVD in. If you
liked the first one, this will make you mourn for a half decent story
and a film that doesn't induce bile production. And if you saw this one
and liked it we clearly can't be friends. I'm sorry, I'm sure you're a
nice person though.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a horror fan at all, but got invited to this screening and
decided to go see what all the hoopla was about. What I got was an
interesting piece which I might sooner qualify as a supernatural
thriller than a horror movie (but I guess that's what J-horror movies
are). Sure, it's quite gross in a couple of places and there are a few
heart-stopping moments as well, but what really impressed me was that
the entire movie, from the first minute to the last, is filled with
this weird kind of suspenseful energy. Even when literally nothing
particularly frightening in itself is going on, it still feels «off»,
it's still unsettling, uncomfortable, on edge. And that for me was the
strength of this movie. Not having seen Hideo Nakata's previous Ringu
movies, I was pleasantly surprised to find out that he seems to be a
master of creating an atmosphere scarier than any special-effect driven
sequence could. All the actors did a good job as well  and Sissy
Spacek's cameo was a nice touch  though I would have liked to have
seen a bit more background to the Max-Rachel relationship. All in all,
I predict a good show at the box-office for this one!
<|_=00=_|>
Did no one who made this mess ever see the first Ring movie? I mean,
how many years was Samara at the bottom of that "SEALED" well and she
seemed to have no problem getting out and about when she felt like it.
Having Rachel thinking at the end of the movie that the only way to
stop Samara is to seal the well...wasn't she the one in the first one
who un sealed it? Why would sealing it now stop her? And when did
Samara ever have a problem finding someone she was looking for? The
kids in the first movie watched the tape at the cabin and then went
back to their homes and I doubt that they left a forwarding address for
Samara to find them. When in The Ring 2, Samara grabs Rachel's arm and
says "I found you." Please...did Samara loose her Map Quest? I could go
on and on with the HOLES in this POS movie....I was a big fan of the
first Ring and also the original RINGU, but this was just TRASH! This
movie was not creepy or scarry at all...but just down right CRAP! I
thought if they did this right the studio may have a nice franchise on
their hands like a Jason, Freddy or Michael Myers...but did they ever
blow it. Sure it made 36 million the first week...but I bet it will
fall so fast you will hear the studio heads spinning.
<|_=00=_|>
The Ring was my favourite film of 2002, the best horror film I'd seen
in ages, and I subsequently saw and enjoyed (with the exception of Ring
0 - What the hell was that?) all the Japanese films as well.

So when I heard that the director of the original films was set to do
the second "remake", it was suitably excited. Imagine what he could do
with a bigger budget and better technology? It is however, not even
close to the first, and such improvements don't surface (same CGI,
C-list Hallmark Channel cast). It does manage to keep you nervous
throughout, but the proper scares are too infrequent and it appears to
take itself too seriously. This is all too evident when the creepiest
kid in cinema is admitted to hospital and The Ring 2 turns into a child
abuse drama for around twenty minutes, leaving you wondering when it'll
pick up a bit again.

It's also the kind of film that demands that you re-watch the first one
before you go to see it; the opening makes no sense unless you've seen
"Rings" on the Collectors Edition DVD, and there's a ton of stuff that
may have easily been forgotten if you saw the film three years ago.

It's alright; it's a horror sequel-remake thing, so you don't expect
too much and you wont be disappointed, but you can't help but think it
could have been done a bit better.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone knows the story of The Ring. You watch this tape and your
phone rings and some creepy little girl says "Seven Days" which means
you have seven days left to live. In The Ring Two, it forgets that
story. The movie focuses on Rachael (Naomie Watts) and her son Aidan
(David Dorfman). Racheal and Aidan have left their home that they used
to live in and to start fresh in Astoria, Oregon. It is 6 months after
the events in the first movie. However, Racheal's resolve quickly turns
to dread when evidence at a local crime scene including and unmarked
video taped-seems familiar. Racheal realizes that the evil Samara is
back.

The original Ring was scary and thrilling. The sequel isn't loaded with
terror. But there are some scenes when I did get a bit terrified.
Before, seeing it, I expected to be jumping up and down out of my seat
and being really scared. The Ring Two is not a bad movie, I just
expected a little more.
<|_=00=_|>
I LOVED The Ring, so naturally, I was ecstatic about seeing The Ring 2.
What a disappointment! The movie didn't have much of a plot (even for
those of us with more creative imaginations), and, because of that, it
was difficult to follow. I found myself being bored more than anything
else and waiting for the next scary scene to shake me awake. The
special effects were pretty good, and all the cast members did a really
good job with their roles, but despite their abilities, the movie
failed to make an impression half as good as the original. There are
several points in this movie when you feel like you begin to catch on
to something that will eventually make sense (and make it worth your
money), only to be let down at the conclusion of the scene. Better save
your money and wait for this one to hit rental shelves...I wish I had.
<|_=00=_|>
I have always believed that the horror genre is the most difficult to
master. To make an effective horror film takes an amalgamation of
talent, luck and one intangible that most cannot figure out. To me, you
have to love the genre and you have to have little studio interference.
Films like Halloween, Last House on the Left, Evil Dead, and Texas
Chainsaw Massacre were all low budget and independent films and all
were pioneers of the genre. All were also emancipated from any studio
intervention which more often than not can destroy a director's vision.
I would think that somewhere in Urban Legend and The Haunting's
vernacular was a good film until the morons who knew nothing about film
got a hold of it.

I mention all of this as a precursor to the review because The Ring was
a modern day miracle. It was the scariest horror film in twenty years
and it was a studio project. I honestly never thought that a film made
by Dreamworks would touch a nerve in the way it did. But with direction
by Gore Verbinski and Ehren Krueger writing one of the best scripts
I've ever been privy to, The Ring scared the hell out of me.

To do a follow up was almost a no win situation. Not since Nightmare on
Elm Street 2 has there been a more disappointing sequel than this one.
I don't know where to lay the blame, because Ehren Krueger, whom I
respect very much, returned to pen the sequel and you have the director
of the Japanese film that started it all, helming this one. So where
does the blame fall? Was it the studio who interfered too vehemently?
Was it that the Japanese original was that inferior to the Dreamworks
version? Or is it just that lightning doesn't strike twice in most
films? I'm not sure what the answer is to that perplexing question, all
I know is that this is about as much of a true dichotomy from the
first. You can't get any further apart.

Naomi Watts is adequate as Rachael and David Dorfman is passable as
Aidan, but the continuation of Samara story is perhaps the weak link
here. In the original, she was an enigma. Her story was such a mystery
that it kept you guessing as to what she was and where she came from.
There was a blend of The Changeling and a bit of The Shining all rolled
into one. A sequel succeeds when it extends the story, not just retells
it. There was no continuation of the story here. No one bothered to
explain why Samara can come through the TV and petrify you to death. No
one bothered to explain why she is still haunting people through
videocassettes. No one bothered to explain anything. Now maybe some are
okay with that. Maybe a mystery should remain a mystery. But if you can
get past the regression of the story, then what is even more disturbing
is that there is nothing remotely disturbing, interesting or scary
about the film, and everything that was freaky about Samara in the
first one is now like watching Scooby Doo and mystery of Samara. There
is no fear of her now. There is nothing remotely disturbing about her.
Maybe I was expecting too much, but this film is one of the weakest
sequels I have ever seen. If they decide to make a third, they had
better go back to their roots and get Verbinski back. 

Is it wrong to expect this much from a sequel? Maybe. But then again,
there are sequels that can match the original, if not surpass it. At
least two of the Friday the 13th sequels surpass the original and if
you are talking non horror, then you can also add films like Lethal
Weapon 2, Bourne Supremacy and of course classics like Terminator 2,
Aliens, Godfather II and Empire Strikes Back to the list of sequels
that either equaled or surpassed the original. Now in my opinion,
Nakata is not on the same level as Cameron, Lucas or even Copolla, so
there is no reason to believe that he can create a better film that
Verbinski did. But suffice to say that everything that made the first
such a paradigm for years to come, has vanished in this one. It is
truly unfortunate as it feels like too many politicians in this one
threw their hat into the ring and tried to make changes that did
nothing but give us another Nightmare on Elm Street 2. 

And that is a shame.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Ring 2 isn't as bad as some people say it is, the plot is a little
more simple than the first one and I admit that there are a few places
in the movie that could've been better, but it's still a good movie. I
like how the movie starts off in a similar way to the first film, since
it gives the feeling of deja vu. After that there are some things that
are a little to much like the first but they can be ignored with little
effort. The story starts out really well as I said the plot is kind of
simple but its set out so that it takes a while to see the whole
picture. There are some parts with CGI effects that aren't needed and
that will annoy some people but thankfully, there's not to many of
those. Half way through it gets really good, you don't know whats
happening and you don't know how they're going to stop it all you know
is that Samara has come back but with unknown intentions. After that it
gets a bit obvious and kinda hurried but who cares. To sum it all up
I'd have to say it done quite well since the first film was hard to
follow up on. See the film for your self, trust me, you won't regret
it.
