
Hardcore horror fans will be disappointed by this film. It is not a
horror film by any means. There is nothing scary about it, and even the
extremely gory scenes are filmed to make the viewer laugh. But, if you
go into the film wanting a really funny movie, that is what you will
get. This film, is hilariously funny.

The film takes place around five years after BRIDE OF CHUCKY, where
Glen Ray is being used as a sideshow freak. But, when he finds out who
his parents really are, and finds out that there is a movie being made
about them, he flies out to the set, and brings his parents back using
the dolls that they were using in the movie. Now, the trick is to get
Jennifer Tilly pregnant, so that Tiffany can possess her, Chucky can
possess rapper Red Man, and Glen can possess the baby that Jennifer
Tilly gives birth to.

Now I know what your thinking, that is the stupidest plot in the world.
But, this movie is very funny! It has some excellent gore scenes as
well, like decapitations, guts being cut out of stomachs, people
getting set on fire. It is a freaking gorefest, with a lot of comedy
mixed in. I am very satisfied, because unlike Child's Play 2 and 3,
they didn't try to make it a horror film because they knew that they
couldn't. 

If you like Comedy Movies, and you like Gore, then check out SEED OF
CHUCKY.
<|_=00=_|>
Towards the climax of "Seed of Chucky", Chucky himself manages to
subvert the ENTIRE concept of the ENTIRE series so far, and thus most
films of its kind, by using simple reasoning. I have been dying to hear
that from a "slasher villain" for, well...since the birth of slasher
villains.

What a great time this movie is! "Bride of Chucky" reinvented what had
become a dull, unscary franchaise as black comedy. "Seed" takes that
ball and runs with it. Don Mancini, who created Chucky many years ago,
finally gets a chance to direct and I think this film will get him jobs
outside the series. He not only makes the fifth take on Chucky feel
fresh- a major accomplishment in itself for any series that has gone on
this long- but shows a flair for satirizing movie clich√©s (a certain
object flies upwards towards the camera at one point and it's a gas
considering how overused that shot has been in action movies of recent
years)and has a strong visual sense- check out the floor of Jennifer
Tilly's foyer for an unexpected laugh. And I've got to hand it to
Ms.Tilly- the girl's a trooper for sure,letting herself be the butt of
jokes, both cruel and crazy. This is balanced by a great scene- a lot
of directors would have left it for the DVD- where she reveals that
she's not the one note Hollywood caricature she's been built up to be.
Add that to a gender confusion subplot, and a piss take on twelve step
programs, and you've got something a hell of a lot smarter than most
horror films. Hell, than most comedies.

Speaking of Hollywood, the refreshing thing for a movie that takes
place there? It isn't married to tired in jokes- save for one great one
for B-Movie fans- the name of Chucky and Tiffany's child- which I will
leave you to discover for yourself. 

"Seed" has the over the top humour of the best obnoxious comedies
("American Pie" comes to mind, but better examples probably escape me),
and a surprisingly graphic amount of gore- this thing doesn't skimp on
the blood. For the latter reason, no way will it cross over to a
mainstream audience. It is what it is and is the most entertaining
version of what it is, I think, possible.

What it all comes down to is, if you're on this page, reading reviews,
you're probably a partial convert to a movie like "Seed of Chucky", and
if you're wondering if you'll like it, I have to tell you, this movie
doesn't skimp. It's got all the slasher movie essentials like gore and
nudity, married to a crude, black, very funny sense of humour, and even
some semblance of humanity. 

What I'm saying is, you'll like it.
<|_=00=_|>
Give it up, if you didn't like Chucky before, you are absolutely going
to hate Seed of Chucky. I read many negative reviews prior to watching
this movie and was quite ready for a major disappointment. However, it
did not happen. In my opinion, the movie is the crown of the entire
series, an ode to Chucky, the star of popular culture. Look how he
refuses to become human ...superb! For a lover of camp, gory flicks,
horror and parody, there are so many delightful moments in the movie.
However, it is not horror as such,nor any other particular genre for
that matter. Chucky is not even the main star of the movie! I have
already declared myself as a fan, and maybe my view is not entirely
unbiased. Still, here are some things I particularly enjoyed:

1. The appearance of John Waters as an actor. Need I say more? Big +

2. Glen/Glenda who speaks with British accent, resembles David Bowie
from his Ziggy Stardust phase and has sexual/personality identity
issues. How cool is that? Big +

3. Very clear references, notably to Psycho, Shining, Rosemary's Baby
(and some other movies by Mr. Polanski, but more in the form of
allusions), and even Pinnochio. I am sure there are many more. Big +

4. Jennifer Tilly, one of the sexiest, most sensual, intelligent
actresses I have ever seen. Ideal for all sorts of subversive films. Of
course, she is wonderful in this one too. Mmm... Jennifer I love you.
There, I have said it. Big +

5. Directing, music,setting, costumes. Yes, I liked them all... Thank
you people, well done. 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am a big fan of Chucky, i have been a fan on him ever since i was 6
years old. When I first saw this movie was going to be made, i thought
it would be terrible. This film can just go to show you how wrong
thoughts can be. I heard Glen was going to be in it. I thought he was
going to be stupid at first, but i was wrong again. 

Chucky was only in this movie for 30 mins. But, that didn't worry me at
all. The other characters were interesting as well. No bad characters.
just about everything you could ask for. Don Mancini did a great job at
directing this movie. 

This film had everything you could ask for. Glen was a very lovable
character. Tiffany came back into it again. And Of course, Chucky! It
had great actors in it. Jeniffer Tilly really helped this movie along
with this movie. She plays a great part. And Introducing Billy Boyd. He
played a great character. And Brad Dourif returns as Chucky again! This
film is definitely for the Chucky fans. If you are not a Chucky fan,
then you should not watch this film under any circumstances. This movie
also had hilarious bits in it. Such as Britney Spears getting rammed
off a cliff. If you are a humungous Chucky fan like me, you will not be
disappointed at all.
<|_=00=_|>
'SEED OF CHUCKY' is perverse, absurd, disgusting and fun as all hell.

Anyone who goes to see a CHUCKY movie expecting a horror film is not
living in reality. CHUCKY has become a comedy series of the blackest
sort and that's certainly not a bad thing. While 'SEED' is no 'BRIDE',
it still manages to deliver the goods and there are about a million
in-jokes to test your movie IQ. Go to see this in the proper frame of
mind and you won't likely be disappointed.

---My only serious criticism would be that this whole movie stars
spoofing themselves (John Malkovich, Neal Patrick Harris, etc., and now
Jennifer Tilly and Redman) has been played out. It's great to see that
they have a sense of humor about themselves but it's getting old.---
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't seen a Chucky film since the first one, but with Jennifer
Tilly "playing herself" and with John Waters in the cast, I figured I'd
give this a chance, and I'm glad I did. While Chucky (Brad Dourif) and
his wife Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) and their child Glen/Glenda (Billy
Boyd) are entertaining, the film is really a vehicle for Jennifer
Tilly, playing "herself", in other words, an exaggerated version of her
public persona. And she is incredibly funny and incredibly daring in
that role. For me, this is the performance of the year. I know that Ms.
Tilly has a rabid following who see every film she is in, but now I am
joining that fold. This film is funny, scary, a wonderful satire of
Hollywood and the cult of celebrity. I don't know why others have put
down Redman, but he is perfect for his role...also playing an
exaggerated version of his public persona. If anyone doesn't "get" this
film, then I guess they don't "get" performers such as Mae West or
Jayne Mansfield. With this film, Jennifer Tilly should be elevated to
that level of greatness. Yes, she is a fine actress who can play any
kind of role convincingly, but she also has an aura about her that one
cannot buy or train for. There are a few jokes about Julia Roberts in
the film, but as Tilly herself surely knows Ms. Roberts could not have
gotten away with a role such as this (although she did in a way play a
similar role in FULL FRONTAL). Writer-director Don Mancini has hit a
grand slam with this film, which will surely become a cult classic. Of
the hundreds of films I have rated on the IMDb, this is one of the
dozen or so that deserves an unqualified "10." John Waters is perfect
for his role as a sleaze reporter--that he was offered a role in the
film shows that the filmmakers surely know their lineage! Finally,
there is a wonderful musical score by the legendary Italian composer
Pino Donaggio. I can't imagine how a Chucky 6 could follow up this
film, but the minds who created this amazing film can probably surprise
us once again. However, should they choose to retire the franchise with
this entry, they will be going out on top. I'll be buying the DVD the
day it comes out. And I need to get a picture of Jennifer Tilly for my
wall!
<|_=00=_|>
I was curious about watching the SEED OF CHUCKY, since the last movie
made everybody stay in a sort of expectation about chucky's baby. The
movie itself doesn't have any big surprise and it's very
predictable,although funny: some of the best parts it's about Chucky's
and Tiffanny's kid, Glen.(or Glenda?lol) Glen was raised in U.K.,by a
ventriloquist who found him six years ago in a cemetery,where Tiffany
and Chucky died. He had a terrible life in U.K., only serving the
ventriloquist purposes,and after watching his parents in television, he
decides to go Los Angeles to meet them. He resuscitates his parents by
accident, and after that, many people starts to be killed. Until then,
Glen was different from his parents, and was not a big fan of killing
people, but near the end, seeing him all dressed like Tiffanny,helping
his father to kill, was much more funny than horrifying. ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Who could foresee some years ago that Chucky could have such an
extended franchise like this one? He became an icon of modern horror
(the word modern referring to the period started in the early 80s). He
has won his place along Freddy Kruegger, Jason or Michael Myers, but
after many years of recess he had the fortune of had a talented
screenwriter such as Don Mancini who always had faith in the potential
of the concept of the killer doll.

Mancini reinvented the franchise of Chucky in the previous effort 'The
Bride of Chucky' he added humor to the mix and then Chucky got new
life. Seed of Chucky takes place some years after the events told in
the aforementioned 'Bride' It can't be said that 'Seed' is a
predictable horror piece. As the movie goes on (delivering some
unforgettable jokes), the personalities of the dolls take unexpected
directions. The ending will surprise even the loyal followers of
Child's Play saga.

The director has the opportunity of create the most delirious story of
Chucky to these days, and he also pay homage to some of his favorite
films. Psycho, Glen or Glenda and the films of John Waters (he has a
secondary but nice role here) are admired by Mancini and he shows here
how much he loves them and respects them. Seed of Chucky not only
delivers the necessary amount of blood, scares and laughs, also give us
some criticism on Hollywood's trends. The rapper Redman is the tool to
make fun of that annoying trend of rapper-actors; even Jennifer Tilly
makes fun of herself! And there's more. But the most important is that
Chucky still is the star, he has the same charm that makes us adore
him.

Film Editing, Cinematography and incidental music are superb, this is a
good gesture towards the audience, they pay good money for a movie
ticket and they deserve a work well done. This is not the case where
creators just exploit the strong points of the sequel and forget about
other aspects involved in film-making.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say, this movie is the greatest part Jennifer Tilly ever
did. She demonstrates unbelievable courage and sense of humor by
playing herself in the movie which is just a big joke about her. She
also delivers her usual more than decent performance, since comedy is
her natural gerne. Other members of the cast also do a good job,
especially Redman, since he also got a chance to play himself. The plot
is fair enough for a movie parodying a horror movie, so all the blood
and deaths don't actually scare anyone. Some humor is also in place,
most of which deals with Tilly's appearance. So, to sum up, a very good
satire, a decent comedy, and a great performance of Jennifer Tilly -
all in one.
<|_=00=_|>
Chucky's son, picked up at the graveyard where he was born in the last
film by a British bloke, now work as a 'dummy' to his ventriloquist.
He's having recurring dreams of murdering, and wondering who his real
parents are. After seeing Chucky and Tiffany on Access Hollywood, he
runs away from his home to America. Once there he reads from the
magical necklace and resurrects the two dolls. When finds out his
parents are murderers he pees himself (a recurring gag) See he's pretty
much a pussy who doesn't know if he's a boy or girl. So Chucky calls
him Glen and Tiff calls him Glenda. (laughing yet) While the first
three Chucky films were played straight, and "Bride of Chucky" seemed
to be a horror comedy. This one is Comedy, with some horror. I found
myself amused to a point. Din't really care for the son character. But
that's just my opinion. Definitely better than Child's Play 3, but I
liked it less then the original, part 2, and "Bride of Chucky" 

My Grade: C 

Eye Candy: Stephanie Chambers gets topless; we also see Tiffany's doll
parts
