
Imagine, if you will, the Story Warehouse. This is where storytellers
collect the various bits and pieces which they then assemble into
stories. We go past the Romance and Horror sections and arrive at
Magic, where we find the shelves fairly empty. Some items are always in
stock - you can always pick up Orphaned Child Sent To Live In Run-Down
Old House Where Strange Things Happen With No Explanation, for
instance, and there's never any shortage of Slightly Sinister Patriarch
Figure Who Flies Into Rage For No Good Reason And Won't Answer
Questions, or Quirky Manservant With Fantastic Abilities (I'll take
two, please). The Magic Lions section was pretty much cleaned out by CS
Lewis for the Narnia stories, of course, although it appears that he
didn't have much call for Magic Lion (Black Fur) or Magic Lion
(Disguised As Big Dog).

And that is the problem with The Secret Of Moonacre - the story has a
strong feeling of having been cobbled together from bits and pieces,
and those bits and pieces are either overly familiar - Ioan Gruffud's
mysterious bad-tempered uncle is no stranger - or else simply not very
good (clearly a great deal was left on the Moon shelves - we have Moon
Pearls, Moon Princesses, Moonacre itself, the Moon coming down to
destroy everything). Much which needs explaining is never explained,
and the bits of the story simply don't fit very well together. It's as
if by combining the legs from a flat-pack table and the carcase from a
flat-pack kitchen unit you can make a sideboard. Well, yes, but I don't
think I'd want it in my living room.

And this is a shame, because the look of the film is fine, as is Dakota
Blue Richards. Gruffud and Tim Curry both deliver their cliché
characters perfectly adequately, Juliet Stephenson is given a comedy
nanny to play with rather uncomfortably, and Natasha McElhone looks
wonderful and acts, at times, embarrassingly badly (she delivers a
curse with a complete absence of menace, for instance. Clearly,
cheekbones on their own are not enough).

I sometimes wonder why film producers still don't seem to understand
that a solid story and script is the starting point for a successful
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I am 17 and I absolutely love the book "The Little White
Horse" by Elizabeth Goudge, with its beautiful imagery, memorable
characters and above all its magical story, and I do agree the book is
better than the film in many ways. In fact, the Little White Horse is
probably my favourite book of all time. I think the film Secret of
Moonacre is a beautiful film, that unfortunately is undermined by one
or two problems with the story, and doesn't quite capture the magic of
the book.

The film looks absolutely exquisite, with those gorgeous costumes and
the lovely sets with the huge menacing moon. The music by Christian
Henson is gorgeous and very fitting with the scenery. Gabor Csupo, the
director of Bridge of Tarabithia, which is admittedly better, obviously
has an eye for art, as he used to be an animator. Other directors that
have directed visually stunning fantasy films are Ridley Scott with
Legend and Guillermo Del Torro with Pan's Labyrinth.(which is the best
foreign language film I have ever seen) Whoever trained the animals,
must be told he/she did a truly remarkable job.

The acting is very good, an obvious standout is Dakota Blue Richards of
Golden Compass fame in a strong central performance as the protagonist
Maria Merryweather. Juliet Stevenson and Andy Linden provide the
comedy, with the jokes about indigestion, and whizzing quickly around
the kitchen. Tim Curry brings a touch of melancholy to an otherwise
menacing and complex character, and it made a difference after seeing
Curry in over the top roles such as FrankNFurter and Wadsworth. Though,
if anything, I wish Curry had more screen time. Natasha McElhone looked
lovely as Loveday, with a lovely face that sometimes defies her when
she is cursing for instance. Though I will confess I wasn't entirely
convinced by Ioan Gruffodd as Sir Benjamin. In the book Sir Benjamin is
fat with three chins, which is a far cry from the gorgeous Gruffodd. I
am not saying he was bad, he wasn't. He was very brooding at times, but
other times when he looked uncomfortable. That I can understand,
because since I have participated in operas with similar costumes,(like
the Magic Flute) I do know from experience they can be very
uncomfortable to wear.

The story I do agree takes a while to get going, but the book takes one
or two chapters to explain the story, which isn't a problem as it is
called character development. The basics are all there, the Moon
Princess, the pearls and the battle of good and evil, but a lot was
changed from the book, and one or two of the characters were changed,
and others like Old Parson were left out entirely. I was prepared for a
lot of changes when I saw this film (they do it all the time), and
although I was fine with most of them, I was annoyed that Maria and
Robin's relationship from the book was virtually eliminated, as that
was one of the book's main merits. The ending was a bit rushed, I am
putting a huge emphasis on the bit, but I liked the underwater sequence
very much.

All in all, a flawed but hugely enjoyable film (not the best fantasy I
have ever seen but a solid attempt) that is well worth watching for the
visuals. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I haven't read the book. In a way it works for my advantage
allowing me to criticize the movie solely based on what was presented
there and not be distracted by what was left out compared to book etc.
I can think of two kinds of fairy tales: one is the kind you love when
you're 7 but think it utterly stupid and childish when you're 30; the
other type is the kind you find magical no matter how old you are. This
movie here could've easily belonged to the first group but turned out
to be something more valuable. The bicycle has been invented and now
it's all about how you do it, not what you do. The whole movie in its
being is one big cliché, BUT they have successfully managed to turn
that weakness into a strong point. This could've easily been a cheesy
Raspberry candidate and I am very picky about my fairy tales and
fantasy and I was not disappointed. Several aspects made the story
believable, starting from the level of acting and ending with props.
When it comes to acting, the weakest link in the bunch was Natascha
McElhone, who didn't always seem to be in it as much as the others (e.g
the cursing part, people seem to agree on that part mostly). I was
thoroughly impressed by Ioan Gruffudd, going from cold to heartbroken
definitely moved my cruel heart. The milieu and the special effects
were outstanding. No Lord of the Rings, don't get me wrong, but there
was no half-hearted effort in that area. The Moonacre Manor and the
many other scenes were picturesque and the costumes
far-enough-out-of-the-box creative, mixing the traditional with a
modern touch in perfect balance. All in all, I was left feeling
satisfied and enriched and I reckon this movie deserves a rating above
7 of 10 the least, for it certainly wasn't a mediocre experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the European premiere on Sunday when the film was shown as
part of the London Film Festival. Some of the cast were there, also the
director and producers who spoke before the screening.

I have read the book, The Little White Horse, many times, but was
prepared for a lot of changes from the book. I don't think it's really
a spoiler to say that the character of Sir Benjamin is VERY different
in the film! And there are many characters omitted, including Old
Parson. I enjoyed the film - it is absolutely gorgeous to look at - the
costumes, the sets, the cinematography - all beautiful and lush. Ioan
Gruffedd a bit wooden but all he really has to do for most of the film
is look brooding. Juliet Stevenson gets nearly all the comedy. Tim
Curry only has to phone in a performance. Dakota thingummy is
surprisingly good (I have a prejudice against child actors). She's
fine. Most of the film works quite well but I would have liked more
scope for some of the characters to develop. You barely see any
relationship development between Maria and Robin - they only really
meet about twice. The ending was a little abrupt - I would have liked
just five minutes more to develop the happy ending a little further,
perhaps back at Moonacre Manor. An enjoyable film but doesn't quite hit
the mark. I would watch it again just for how lovely it is to look at,
not for the plot or the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the world premiere of Moonacre at the Toronto International
Film Festival. Gabor Czupo (the director) was there, as well as Dakota
Blue Richards and Augustus Prew.

The film was beautiful to watch--the sets were gorgeous and the scenery
magical. The huge menacing moon bearing down on Moonacre was an amazing
effect. Maria's outfits were worth watching just on their own!

There are many changes from the book (The Little White Horse by
Elizabeth Goudge). I thought the ending they invented was a lot more
effective than the ending in the book. However, I was very disappointed
with how they changed Robin's character, and cut way back on Maria and
Robin's partnership and completed eliminated their romance. Many
subsidiary characters were eliminated as well.

Miss Heliotrope provides most of the humour in the film--and Juliet
Stevenson has great comedic timing. Tim Curry is just a caricature as
Cocq de Noir. Dakota shows lots of spunk and determination and the
final underwater scene is very powerful. In a couple of her outfits
they let her show some cleavage, which surprised me a bit. But the
director didn't allow any sparks to fly between her and Robin (Prew).

Children and young teens should enjoy the movie. There's no swearing
and the violence is only mildly scary.
<|_=00=_|>
In London, young, almost-a-teen Maria (Dakota Blue Richards) has just
lost her father. Her nanny, Miss Heliotrope (Juliet Stevenson) tries to
comfort her. When the will is read, Maria is dumbfounded to find out
that she must move to the countryside and live with an unknown uncle,
Benjamin (Ioan Gruffudd) at a remote estate called Moonacre. With no
other choice, Maria and Miss H make the journey. Immediately, her
uncle's gruff manner upsets the young lady. Yet, over the course of the
next few weeks, magical things begin to happen to Maria. Elves appear
and tell her of Moonacre's curse, that is, a pearl necklace was stolen
from the Moon Princess long ago, by Maria's relations. In order to
break the spell, the gems must be returned and are said to be hidden
somewhere on the premises. Can Maria find them? The young girl also has
to deal with dangerous, evil neighbors who inhabit a dark castle beyond
the woods that separate the two properties. This family, headed by a
horrid man (Tim Curry) wants to capture the girl to prevent her from
breaking the curse. Also, living in the woods, is a beautiful lady
(Natascha McElhone) who was once in love with Benjamin. Unhappily,
their engagement went awry and the two are mild enemies, at present.
But, since this beautiful woman knows the woods, can she help Maria in
her fight against the wicked castle? This is one very lovely film, as
beautiful as the moon, as they say. The art direction and special
effects are superb, making the movie enchanting to watch. Also fine is
the cast, from the stars to the supporting members. With very fine
sets, costumes, script and direction as well, why wait for the moon's
next appearance? Get this one today!
<|_=00=_|>
Fairy tales are movies that either sink or swim when it comes to the
silver screen, based upon the merits of their story and the characters
that exist to propel the fantasy past the absurd and into the tangibly
real. The Secret of Moonacre is unfortunately an example of absurdist
fairytale done with little restraint or tact; the story is robust with
cliché devices, the characters flat and cursed with banal dialogue, and
the backstory, costume designs, productioneverything just falls far
short of what you may come to expect fro productions of this nature. To
be fair, there are certain elements inherent to Csupo's outing here
that borders on mildly entertaining if only for the references that
they make to other works, yet such moments are far and few between and
never truly dispel the sour taste of hackneyed amateurism that
permeates the majority of Moonacre's ridiculously generic universe.

At its core, The Secret of Moonacre strives to be part adventure
fairytale and part whimsy comedy stitched together with undercooked
themes of pride, corruption and the power of love to overcome all
shadows of the human heart. Ostensibly, this mix has all the elements
to make for an enjoyable family feature, yet burdened with a plodding
pace and characters that never come off the screen in any manner, the
Secret of Moonacre is a dull one. Centring around young teenage girl
Maria (Dakota Blue Richards) as she moves into her extravagant and
eccentric uncle's mansion in the Middle of Nowhere Forest under the
protection of nanny Miss Heliotrope (Juliet Stevenson who serves as a
trite source of comic relief every now and then with her biggest
character trait being an impromptu belch), Goudge's story is one built
upon established ground-works for any old fantasy tale. Sure, fair
enoughthere's nothing wrong with building upon already tried and
tested methodsyet very little is done beyond this to help Moonacre
feel like a tale of its own.

Perhaps the greatest and most obvious detractive trait inherent to
Alborough's adaptation however is simply through its writing which
seems to go through the motions at each and every turn. The result is a
feature that plods along through countless cliché and predictable
contrivances to the point where all fantastical elements are lost
within the generic gloop that is the whole backstory and focus point of
Moonacre's world. About half way into the movie, it should be no
surprise then that the production boils down to one of absurd
ridiculewithout the feeling of otherworldly mysticism to back up all
the theatrical dialogue, sets and costumes, Csupo neglects his feature
to being bland and utterly forgettable in spite of its striking visuals
and over-the-top performances. In fact, with the exception of perhaps
Ioan Gruffudd , the majority of the acting ensemble here feel just as
disconnected to the story's fantasy as everything else does. It's not
just badit's distracting and downright laughable when any sort of
tension or conflict is pushed down the throat with little to no
tangible reason to believe in it.

Yet this neglect to raising the suspension of disbelief is what
ultimately stops The Secret of Moonacre from ever truly coming off the
screen. Perhaps with a greater budget, some bigger stars and a re-write
or two, Csupo could have made something more than a sporadically pretty
treat for the senses, yet as it stands nothing of the sort of achieved
throughout its bumbling and overly melodramatic runtime. This in turn
makes recommending Moonacre a lost cause; young females may be able to
enjoy all the unicorns, pretty dresses and coy humour to the extent
that everything else is ignored, yet even this assertion serves as a
broad test of the imaginationwhich is ironically more than Csupo
manages here through his excruciatingly mundane two hour exercise in
creating yet another Pedestrian Fantasy By Numbers.

- A review by Jamie Robert Ward (http://www.invocus.net)
<|_=00=_|>
For me, it is very hard to pass up a fantasy film. And when I had the
chance to see this, I didn't think twice. I thought the movie would be
in the same league as Harry Potter or Chronicles of Narnia series, but
it falls short. The way the film is executed makes it seem quite silly.
Based on the novel 'The Little White Horse' (which I hear is good) by
Elizabeth Goudge, the film tells the tale of two ancient powerful
families who fall out with one other. The Moon Princess is believed to
bring them together, or else, predictably, the world will end. The
movie is partly adventurous and partly funny. The funny moments are
never funny for the adults, but the children will really enjoy the
movie. It has underlying themes like pride, the power of love and
honesty. Dakota Richards makes you like the movie because she seems so
immersed in her character. Natascha McElhone, Tim Curry and Ioan
Gruffudd never come off as authentic and it hurts the movie. They all
have a very short fuse and could blow off like a six year old kid if
they are pushed too much.

An orphan girl, thirteen year old Marla Merryweather (Dakota Blue
Richards) inherits nothing but a book of family secrets, 'The Ancient
Chronicles Of Moonacre Valley', from her dead father. Without a proper
home, she has no choice, but to move in with her grumpy uncle, Sir
Benjamin Merryweather (Ioan Gruffudd) at Moonacre Manor along with her
nanny, Miss Heliotrope (Juliet Stevenson). The book that her father
left her tells her of an ancient curse placed upon her family. The
daughter of Coeur De Noir (Tim Curry), Loveday (Natascha McElhone) is
the Moon Princess and she has been gifted magical pearls which will
give the power enormous power to control everything. Sir Merryweather
and Loveday are in love and are about to be married. On the day of the
marriage, the pearls have their effect on Sir Merryweather and Coeur De
Noir and they show their true colours. Loveday runs away with the
pearls and goes into hiding. But Coeur and Sir Merryweather think that
the pearls are with the other one and they are bitter about it. Loveday
has lost her powers and Maria is the apparent heir to the Moon Princess
title and she has to save them all before the ascension of the moon for
the 500th time.

While the story seems to be fascinating, director Gabor Csupo, who was
also responsible for the wonderful 'The Bridge To Terabithia', cannot
really get the magic working here. Dakota Richards as Maria comes
across as a cross between shy and adamant, without being able to really
establish her true nature. Tim Curry who is quite popular in these
kinds of films doesn't really have much to do in this film. He is
supposed to be sinister and menacing, instead he is an idiot. Ioan is a
troubled man who doesn't stick to his decisions and keeps acting like a
baby, as does Natascha's character. The costumes, sets are authentic
and the special effects, which is the most important requirement in
fantasy films are good enough not to appear fake or over the top. There
are unicorns and black lions which will give you a sense of wonder. Not
a bad watch as long as you don't think more than a 12 year old kid
would.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Secret of Moonacre is a beautifully constructed fantasy adventure
film. I would describe it as rather charming with a sense of childlike
playfulness. While it may not be made on a very big budget, they make
do with what they have. The sets are interesting, the costumes are
beautiful and there is a decent amount of shiny pretty special effects.

While it may not be fast-paced it does continue on at a steady pace
with a lovely storyline. It may seem similar to other fairy tales but
the execution is what makes this movie special. Try to enjoy this one
for what it is. It doesn't proclaim to offer you anything more than a
lovely little movie set in a fantasy land and that is what it delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
We'd read reviews on here and so thought that our six year olds demands
to see it were a good idea. Firstly, the film takes a long time to get
going. When it does there is some really wooden acting going on -
enough to make Roger Moore look deep and meaningful in comparison.

Teenager Dakota Blue Richards gives a great performance which is more
than can be said for many of her adult colleagues. It feels that many
of them give up before the film is half way through.

Every so often something happens that makes you feel that this could
have been a good movie. But this is a long way from being Stardust and
similar fantasy films. Very third rate special effects, a plot you just
don't care about and it simply goes on for far too long.

Our two eager six year olds seemed to quite like it. Emphasis on the
"quite" though. It had all the right ingredients - a princess, a
unicorn, baddies etc. If we hadn't bought an insane amount of pop corn
and sweets I think the reaction might have been very different though.
We really thought this film would be something great. Instead it'll end
up being a very cheap DVD by the end of the year.
