
What a stunning surprise! A family saga without familiar places or I
should say that there are all familiar places but they feel completely
new. I'm not one who likes to give away plot points so I won't I just
want to say that I loved the loving involved in the unfolding of this
realistic fairy tale. Personally, I've been questioning the apparent
success of Colin Farrell. In very short years he worked with everybody
from Stone to Spielberg, co starred with Pacino, Cruise and Willis but
other than a winning pout and a clear willingness to take risks, his
appeal eluded me - until last night that is. "A Home At The End Of The
World" made me fall in love with him, with his power with his utter
fearlessness. He creates a character with his heart in his sleeve and
an innocence that it's compelling, aggressively on your face. Sweet and
tough, wise and naive. Robin Wright Penn is also a standout. Her truth,
unusual as it is, is unmistakable. Sissi Spaceck's suburban mom is an
extraordinary creation. Subversive without meaning to, lovingly
subversive, that's what she is. The opening with a startling Ryan
Donowho grabs you by your heart and your throat and doesn't let you go.
Wondering why this film didn't become an instant classic I arrived to
the uncomfortable conclusion that it has to do with the casting of
Colin's life long friend, Dallas Roberts, a good actor but not
charismatic enough to give us a compelling pairing. I agree that he
should be awkward and different but there is an element of petulance
and physicality who didn't allow me to care for him as much as I
wanted, as much as I needed. Sorry I had to mention that. But the
experience that this little big film provides is unforgettable and the
revelation of Colin Farrell mystique as an actor is nothing short of
breathtaking.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael's Cunningham's book is so moving I was afraid to be deeply
disappointed by the movie adaptation. Although 90 min is barely enough
to narrate the story in its emotional complexity, the movie is very
faithful to the book, probably because the screenplay is from
Cunningham himself. The acting is excellent, and the soundtrack
featuring Laura Nyro is beautiful, and if some of the book's interest
is lost in translation, it still makes a pretty good movie. I find some
detractors' arguments pretty amazing, as if all they'd watched was the
trailer. To suggest that after Jules & Jim any movie containing a
threesome is worthless, that any movie taking place in the 70s-80s is
obsolete, that there was too much or not enough sex scenes, or that the
AIDS theme is not developed enough, is plain ludicrous. This is not a
movie about an era, about homosexuality, or about the AIDS epidemics.
This is about (re)creating a place out of time and geography, where the
world makes sense (again). A home, in other words. This is about loving
another being (or two, since one is never complete, never enough)
irrespective of family links, gender, and the established social codes.
The characters are struggling to escape the rules to enjoy the "big
noisy world around" and find a natural place in it. They are the
opposite of stereotypical characters, at least once they are fully
revealed to themselves. As for the end, it is not "unconclusive", it is
what is called an open ending, and probably in this case the perfect
ending, which means the only possible one. My advice: watch it, and
read the novel too.
<|_=00=_|>

I was profoundly touched by the film, but I can see why people needing
a strong linear narrative might be left feeling incomplete.

The tagline doesn't quite capture the key to the film-- it's not
precisely about redefining family-- I suspect the marketing folks
thought that would resound with a likely target audience. (Like the
Frameline GLBT Film Festival in SF.) To me it's about the need to
belong-- to find a place in this world and then take that ride. The
struggle is to find equilibrium with all the surprises that may come
one's way.

Although the movie has its share of sadnesses, there are also quiet
triumphs. In an odd way, this film touches some of the same chords as
the far more eccentric "The World According To Garp" and "Cider House
Rules."

To the director's and screenwriter's credit, they resisted the
temptation to pack too much onto the film. I found the
characterizations just specific enough. Fine performances from all.
Beautifully established in youth.

The film trusts both your intelligence and intuition to carry you
through the trip. Don't see this if you're hungering for car chases!

<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this film on cable, and it left me with a
tugging, wistful and urgent feeling regarding the complex and fragile
nature of what it means to be alive on this planet, faced with a myriad
of choices, which we make based upon what we ultimately believe to be
of value.

In this movie, the main character, Bobby (a magnificent performance by
Colin Farrell), makes his choices based purely on need and love. From a
very young age, his character is aware of certain truths about life and
he's acutely in touch with his feelings. He trusts and follows these
feelings, to the exclusion of everything else. This is not an ordinary
character, and this is not an ordinary film.

Everything about A Home At The End of the World is off-center, in the
best possible way - the characters do not fit into any stereotypical
molds and there are no over-wrought emotional scenes, although the film
is deeply emotional and profoundly intimate. Choices are made,
consequences are dealt with, but nothing plays out in a trite,
predictable way. Instead the story builds slowly, with intense
subtlety, showing the changes Bobby and his childhood friend Jonathan
experience in their conjoined lives. I recommend this movie to anyone
who is willing to take this unforgettable journey along with them.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie wasn't the book, but the performances of all involved were
inspired. I admit to seeing the movie because Colin Farrell was in it
and not being sure, after the book, that he could become Bobby. 

But he did, with a performance that astonished me.

What is unfortunate it that the movie, in some ways, has been limited
in appeal by the "sexuality theme" that has become attached to it. Yes,
Jonathan is gay. But labeling Bobby bi-sexual is reducing him to a
caricature. Bobby's life was about love, needing and getting it from
the people in his life. He found no limits in how to return it.
Imagine, no inhibitions in showing love and affection! Any scene with
Bobby in it just continued to show his tender and honest heart. 

Then there were the rampant rumors of the "deleted scene". I totally
understand why the scene was cut. It would have been unnecessary and
gratuitous.

It is unfortunate this film wasn't released to a greater number of
screens. Missing these performances would truly be a tragedy.

<|_=00=_|>

Clare loves Jonathan, who loves Bobby who..., well, loves everybody.
Bobby is either straight or homosexual or bisexual or asexual,
depending on where you are in the movie. A HOME AT THE END OF THE WORLD
is a relationship movie wherein everything hinges on the relationships,
but those relationships remain strangely ill-defined.

Achingly sincere, A HOME AT THE END OF THE WORLD strives for an
easygoing reality, not fully appreciating that easygoing can also mean
meandering. To its credit we are never sure where the film is going to
take us, but to its detriment, the film doesn't seem to know either.
The film relies on JULES AND JIM math -- one guy plus one guy divided
by one girl equals melodrama -- as a way of exploring the changing
social landscape of America from the laid back
sex-drugs-and-rock'n'roll sixties to the early days of the AIDS
epidemic. It covers a lot of ground, yet doesn't seem to really go
anywhere.

The best part of the film is the beginning, before most of the main
stars even make an appearance. Set in Cleveland, first in 1967 and then
in 1974, the film has some gentle fun looking at suburban attempts at
being mod and trendy, while romanticizing drug use and rock music.
These are little Bobby Morrow's formative years, where one by one he
tragically looses members of his family, leaving him an orphan by age
14. He befriends nerdy Jonathan Glover in high school and ultimately
becomes part of the Glover family, whom he seduces with his genuine
charm, gentle optimism and an apparently always ready supply of
marijuana. It is also where Bobby and Jonathan begin exploring their
sexuality. Even with it's discomforting approval of casual drug use,
this is where the film is most successful, in the way it deals in an
honest and intelligent way with blossoming sexuality and the
awkwardness of being a gay teenager. 

The film really deals with original ideas in these early stages, but
that is just meant to be a foreshadowing of the main storyline, which,
unfortunately tends to be rather trite and clich√©d. 

The bulk of the story takes place in 1984 and thereafter, as the adult
Bobby (Colin Farrell) heads to New York to live with Jonathan (Dallas
Roberts), who is now more or less openly gay. Jonathan is living with
Clare (Robin Wright Penn), a gay guy's gal pal (i.e., fag hag) who is
your standard New York City kook, complete with punkish magenta hair,
crazy clothes and unconventional ideas that don't seem all that
unconventional anymore. Clare loves Jonathan and wants to have his
child, but she seduces and becomes pregnant by Bobby, who we suddenly
are expected to believe isn't gay at all. The three continue to live
together as something more than roommates, but something less than a
marriage. And the film sorta-kinda explores the nature of this
three-way union. 

As a result we get three, or at least two intriguing characters who get
lost in a story bereft of a dramatic point. And a perfectly good gay
love story becomes an unconvincing a love triangle, where each member
ends up playing odd-person-out at some point. 

The most troublesome part of the story is that the character of Clare
even exists. Clare's main function is to keep Jonathan and Bobby apart
as lovers, even as her pregnancy is a gimmick designed to keep them
together as family. And though the film is pro-gay on the surface,
there is the suggestion that Clare has somehow cured Bobby's
homosexuality and the added insinuation that Clare and Jonathan could
both find true love if only he didn't have that darn quirk of wanting
to sleep with guys. This is a gay love story which wants to avoid being
a gay love story. Also, Robin Wright Penn is just not an interesting
enough actress to bring any pizzazz to the stereotypical role of a
bohemian kook and offers little reason to see why both Bobby and
Jonathan are devoted to her. The character itself is a nuisance. Clare
exists as a beard, a plot contrivance designed to turn a gay love story
into a straight love story. 

The main character, however, is Bobby and Farrell does a fine job
playing him as a repressed man-child. There is no trace of the bravado
that has made up Farrell's on-screen and off-screen reputation, only a
gentle sweetness. Unfortunately, this causes an inconsistency in
character. As played at age 7 by Andrew Chalmers and at 14 by Erik
Smith, Bobby is an open, articulate, engaging free spirit. When Farrell
picks up the character at age 24, Bobby has suddenly become repressed,
shy and child-like. Even realizing the various hardships that marked
Bobby's early life, his sudden display of emotional retardation is
jarringly illogical. And though Farrell is good, it is the excellent
performance of Smith as the teenaged Bobby that really defines the
character. 

The best thing about HOME is Dallas Roberts. As the adult Jonathan, he
makes the character seem typically gay, without seeming to be
stereotypically gay. His Jonathan views Bobby with love and lust as a
friend, and with resentment and distrust as an ersatz favored sibling.
Roberts embodies the conflicted nature of Jonathan better than Michael
Cunningham's screenplay would suggest possible. Also, Sissy Spacek has
some fine moments as Jonathan's mother. She is particularly effective
in a scene where Mrs. Glover has just discover Jonathan and Bobby in a
compromising position. The ensuing scene finds her distraught, not
because she realizes that Jonathan is gay, but that know she must
accept as fact what she had already suspected. It is poignant moment.

Had A HOME AT THE END OF THE WORLD been made in 1967 or 1974 or even
1984, it might have had an impact. Now, so much of it is, if not
clich√©, at least ordinary: the supersensitive gay man in love with a
straight man; the flower child/mother hen/earth mother with a penchant
for gay men, the alternative family unit, the odds and ends bits of
feminist dissatisfaction and even the climatic special guest appearance
by AIDS. The story's one original element is the naive (yet
controlling), gay (yet straight), passive (yet dominating), eager to
please (yet vaguely self-centered) Bobby, but the film shies away from
either exploring or challenging the character. Indeed, the filmmakers
even made a point of editing out a shot of Farrell's full frontal
nudity; likewise they edited out his sexuality which is the linchpin of
all the relationships. They don't want to reveal too much of the
character and in the end they reveal too little.

<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure if I just saw the same movie as some of the other
reviewers on here. I would include this film as one of the best of 2004
(so far) along with Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Garden
State, Spartan, and Kill Bill Vol 2. Colin Farrell's character, Bobby
Morrow is one of the most fascinating people I've seen in the movies
for some time. I hope his performance (and this film) are given the
recognition they deserve. The rest of the performances are excellent as
well. The screenplay and the direction are also very good, too. The
story isn't something that we haven't seen on film before, but the
characters and the way the film unfolds isn't your standard fare. Don't
listen to the detractors, see this film.
<|_=00=_|>
While the script may not be a perfect adaptation of the novel (note
that it was the author's first, and as such, may have been difficult to
make into a cohesive whole. Also, the importance of good editing should
not be overlooked).

In any case, the first part of the movie spends a bit too much time on
exposition, or perhaps simply doesn't use the time well enough. We're
fairly clubbed over the head with Bobby's near-worshipful
identification with his older brother. The scenes with Sissy Spacek
were far superior to the others, and brought out the best in the young
actors playing the boys.

The film's most pleasing aspect was the wonderfully crafted
relationships among the four adult characters, played by Farrell,
Roberts, Wright Penn and Spacek. They were convincing, and drew the
audience into the entire complex of the the interaction between the
characters, even among those I've spoken to who identified more
strongly with one of them. These scenes are crafted very well, and
display the director's skill from live theatre. This part of the movie,
I wanted to see more of. Yes, folks, Colin Farrell can indeed act;
you'll find many different shadings in his performance, and a
vulnerability you probably haven't seen before. Dallas Roberts, who was
nominated for an Outer Drama Critics' Circle award for Best Actor for
his outstanding performance in "Nocturne" in New York, and who recently
finished a run of a two man play with none other than the renowned Sam
Shepherd, does an extremely fine job. He maintains honesty and
intensity, and isn't drawn into the easy trap of trying to play the
whole weight of the drama at once. He keeps himself firmly in each
moment. Robin Wright Penn turns in a delightful performance in a
character whose range of outlook on life is wide and complex. Sissy
Spacek is simply superb; aside from the tendency to like her in
whatever she does, her character took only moments to become highly
engaging. The scenic design and location choices were notably
excellent.

This movie, which unfortunately has yet to receive wide distribution,
is definitely worth seeing. Not only does it feature fine performances
and direction in the latter part of the story, but it raises questions
about what "family" really IS, and who gets to decide what that
definition should be? That makes it a VERY timely film. Unless you've
read the book, you probably can't tell what's going to happen at each
stage, and you may find yourself with more questions than answers by
the time the end credits roll. A piece of art that ASKS questions and
doesn't claim to provide all the answers is to be valued and
appreciated. It's also unusual for Hollywood to produce, given their
corporately-driven tendency to release "neat and packaged" films. It
allows far more room for the audience to make up their OWN minds, and
thus displays more respect for them. In my opinion, it was this aspect
of the script that enabled the producers to draw in three "name" stars,
and give us a welcome introduction to the highly talented Dallas
Roberts, whose performance takes no back seat to any of the others.

This film contains varied & perhaps unconventional relationships. For
that reason, it has had a lot of screenings at Gay/Lesbian film
festivals. Don't let that fool you into overlooking this film. Its
appeal is in the humanity of the characters, not their sexual
preferences.

I highly recommend the film. Be patient with the first portions; the
older the characters get, the better the film gets.
<|_=00=_|>

My sons & I saw the very first 2:30PM show Friday the 23rd at the San
Francisco Lumiere theater. WE LOVED IT!! All the reviews are fairly
sound-- great awesome wonderful sweet emotional very very touching &
full of longing & love. Colin as Bobby was spectacularly adorable. This
role shows so well how versatile Colin is an an actor-- what a talented
genius he is and what a fully emotional person he's capable of being. 

All the actors did an incredible job-- but in particular I was really
impressed with the teens that played the young Bobby & Jonathan-- they
were absolutely genuine in what these really complicated, mature roles.

Regardless of the necessary changes made from the book-- I was amazed
at how so many moments were exactly as I'd pictured them when I read
it.

Even though there's been a ton of reviews & the book to read-- there
are some totally cute hysterical & goofy moments that knocked me out of
my seat & completely surprised me. 

And-- the one altered scene-- I'm thankful they changed it-- that scene
without any irrelevant controversial distractions is an Oscar winner if
I ever saw one-- completely beautiful & traumatic & sweet & loving. I
don't want anything to stand in the way of the characters & what they
care about there-- & if I'd been in a room of screaming fans I would
have been annoyed for having anything interrupt those beautiful moments
during the film-- though I wouldn't kick the deleted scene out of bed
if it shows up on the DVD!

Saturday the 24th I saw it again. They're giving away Home books & CDs
as raffle prizes, & though I wasn't lucky enough to win-- I was lucky
to get a book anyway. One of the guys that won the CD/book set gave me
his book because he already had one. It has the Home poster on the
cover!

Everyone was filling out pink questionnaires for the film-- One of the
guys collecting them said they had about 200 responses from the
previous showings, & of those nearly everyone rated the film as
excellent. Only 9 of that 200 rated it fair & only 2 poor (2 bastards!)

Colin's got some incredibly powerful moments in this film, and though
I'm a fan of his anyway, I was happily blown away with how loving he is
as Bobby. It's glorious to watch. I'm highly impressed with the whole
film-- all the acting from everyone. It's a very emotional, poignant, &
profound story. 

_________________

<|_=00=_|>
"A Home at the End of the World" is a film well done. Sissy Spacek is
well cast as the mother, Alice Glover. Dallas Roberts plays a
convincing role as her son, Jonathan Glover. Colin Farrell plays Bobby
Morrow as a young man, and he is truly the star of this unusual
picture. His life as a child is portrayed by Erik Smith, and he too is
convincing in his child actor performance. The rare relationship in
this movie is unique in this film. The story is compelling even if it
is a little difficult to meld into our society's attitudes. This film
is a good topic to observe in view of the current legal changes in
marriage concepts. The music is inspiring and the photography is well
done. There is an expected ending that remains with one long after the
show is over. It is now in DVD, and it is a good movie to see.
