
I will start by saying that I am a 62 year old grandfather of three (9,
8, and 5) who has no connection to Disney in any way. I took the
grandkids today to see this movie and they loved it, as did I. The 3D
is worth going to. There is enough silliness, adventure, and romance to
allow boys and girls of almost all ages to love this show. There were
some funny lines in the show that kids would not understand, but adults
would enjoy. I heard a gentleman laughing throughout the whole show. I
am not around teenagers, so I am not sure how a teenager would respond
to this show. The storyline was different but predictable. That should
not discourage anyone from going to this show. I would rate it as one
of the best, if not the best animation show I have ever seen. This show
is a winner as a family show.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the finished movie at the screening before the wrap party. The
movie works on every level. The Characters, the animation, the story,
the score, the romance, and it's all very cute as well (in a way Disney
can apparently still pull off). 

The one thing that I didn't get into was the songs (Except maybe the
"Mother Knows Best" reprise). They were a little weak melodically and
you won't be singing them for weeks like I do "Part of Your World"
every time I watch the "Little Mermaid." However, the songs are good
enough not to bring the movie down. There are so many touching scenes
in this movie and you will love all of the characters by the end and
have an amazing time in the process. 

It is definitely worth seeing in the theater, as this is probably the
prettiest computer animated movie I've seen. I just can't wait to see
it in stereo!

(BTW, I'm a 30 year old male who grew up with Disney. And I feel like
I'm being objective when I say this movie works as a movie and not as a
movie exclusively for 10 year old girls.)
<|_=00=_|>
I was very sketchy walking into this movie. I didn't know what to
expect, it's Disney which is promising, but it's also Disney's first
CGI Disney movie that got a PG rating, so it seemed different. It was
pretty hard for me to choose between 'Tangled' or 'Burlesque' but I'm
glad I made the decision to watch 'Tangled'. 

This film has everything, for everyone, boys girls and tongue in cheek
humor for adults. It's Disney's answer to Shrek, but in a classy way,
that doesn't feed off of pop culture. 

The story of the film is simple. Rapunzel is a princess that has hair
that has power to heal and keep people young, but once it's cut, it
loses all power. When Rapunzel was just an infant she was kidnapped by
an old woman who locked her away in a tower to keep her hair all to
herself. Rapunzel grows up thinking that her kidnapper is in fact her
mother, and the reason she's locked away is because her 'mother' wants
to keep her safe from the hardships of the world. I'd tell you more
about the movie but I don't want to ruin it. Let's just say she runs
away. Very simple, fairy tale plot.

I was kind of saddened that Disney has succumbed to making Princess
movies using CGI, but watching this movie I realize that some scenes
wouldn't have the power it had, if it were in 2D. The lantern lighting
scene, for example, was amazing. It wouldn't have been the same in 2D.
The music, was perfect. Enough musical number to keep Disney fans more
than satisfied and not enough to where it's overkill. The songs were
heartfelt and meaningful, they all served a purpose, it wasn't just a
nameless song thrown into the movie. The voice acting, by Mandy Moore
and Zachary Levi were amazing. I was a little sketchy about Mandy. I'm
a long time fan, but I wasn't sure if she had the right voice to be a
Disney Princess. She gave Rapunzel so much life, and innocence, I
couldn't think of any other actress who could play her better. Zachary
gave Flynn life, and humor, and made him a very likable character.
However, the two characters that stole the show were Pascal, the
chameleon, and Maximus, the horse. Although these supporting characters
have no speaking lines, through actions and emotions, you know exactly
what they want to say, and the message comes in loud and clear. 

This movie has enough action and comedy to keep boys happy and enough
emotion, romance and drama to keep the girls happy. There are a few
scenes that made me tear a little, well maybe more than a little. Some
scenes have so much emotion and depth that it tugs at your
heartstrings, and gives you goosebumps, especially the lantern scenes.
Disney is testing the waters of their film making with this one. There
were many alcohol references and even references about being drunk.
There's violence, people getting stabbed, and yes, even blood. Which
you never see is Disney movies. 

Overall, I highly recommend this movie, to everyone. Anyone could enjoy
this movie. It's very hard not to like it. With theater prices so high,
I suggest you don't spend 10 dollars to watch Cher and Christina, but
watch 'Tangled' instead. They don't make movies like this anymore. It's
much better than last year's 'Princess and the Frog'. Rapunzel is now
in the line-up of classic Disney princess. I cannot stress how amazing
this film is. Go out and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was apprehensive, to say the least, when I went to see Tangled, after
the disappointment that was Princess and the Frog. First, Disney's back
with CGI animation, which hasn't really worked that great except, maybe
to some extent, Bolt. Second, the trailers made it look really
slapstick -- I'm rather wary of today's animation features that try too
hard to be hip and fast-paced and silly.

I was pleasantly surprised. Sure, there were slapstick and broad humor
sure to make little kiddos laugh. But I was surprised by the
sophistication as well. The screwball comedy between the hero and
heroine is very well done; adults can appreciate that. The sidekicks,
in particular the Max and Pascal, are hilarious. The hero and heroine
are very likable and not flat. And there's a sense of
sadness/wistfulness throughout the whole show that the adults will
understand.

But what really is great is the animation. This is Pixar-worthy great.
In fact, after a while I forgot it was CGI (which tends to be a bit
stiff and crude when it comes to character animation). The human
characters have that hand-drawn quality even though they're CG. In
fact, they're more expressive than the hand-drawn characters in
Princess and the Frog. The backgrounds are gorgeous (I can count every
blade of grass). And there's an iconic scene where the kingdom rouses
from darkness to light with thousands of floating lanterns -- it really
is magical. It reminds me of classics such as Beauty and the Beast and
Sleeping Beauty.

Best of all, the movie is not just all laughs and slapstick. It has
heart too. Even the minor characters such as the King and Queen -- you
can feel the emotions. And the romance is believable and not cheesy.

Like I said, I was very pleasantly surprised. It's something that is
worthy of Pixar, and I'm glad to see Disney back on their game. While
Princess and the Frog was a missed opportunity, Tangled is almost
perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
Not often does a movie bring tears in my eye, and this one truly turned
on the waterworks. Maybe because I am going through my own hard times,
or because I had just read a throughly heartbreaking the night before,
but regardless, Tangled currently stands as one of the greatest
animated films I have ever seen. 

To put it in a few words, Tangled had everything, and much more. The
only way to truly experience this spectacular viewing is to see it for
yourself! It spoke volumes to me, and on so many different levels! 

As a 19 year old male, the typical blood and guts, Saving Private Ryan
movie goer, I went into the theater expecting to be bored out of my
mind. Truth me told, I was not ecstatic during some of the singing
scenes, but I was throughly amazed by almost every other scene in this
film. It reminds me greatly of Enchanted, or even The Princess Bride.
Romantic love stories, with quite a struggle, and great humor! 

I would recommend this movie to everyone, young and old! You have not
lived until this movie can touch your heart, as it has mine. I look
forward to seeing this amazing movie again, hopefully in theaters
before I buy it as soon as it becomes available on DVD, where I can
watch it over and over!
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, when is the last time you saw a decent Disney Animated
feature? No no, PIXAR does not count. I'm talking about just a regular
ol' straight laced Disney flick. If your like me, I'm sure your answer
falls somewhere in the mid 90's. But isn't that a shame? What happened
to the totally awesome Disney movies? If your excuse is because of
technology, i assure you that your wrong. You can make a great animated
movie without resorting to actual hand drawn art. But where is that old
feeling we all use to share? Well i can tell you this much....i already
knew that Disney had something special here, mainly because the VP of
PIXAR jumped ship and decided to fund this project. The first time
anyone from PIXAR has ever done so, let alone the freakin VP. So
needless to say, Disney finally had enough, and pulled out all the
stops for this one.

I kid you not when i say this...."Tangled" is easily the best Disney
Animated feature i have seen since "Aladdin".....yes, it is that good.
They finally let go of trying to find something new and different and
settled with what was working for them almost 20 years ago. It's a
princess tale that easily falls into the same category with the
classics. So wait, does that mean i'm comparing it to the likes of
"Snow White" "Cinderella" and "Sleeping Beauty"? You damn right i am!
Sure the storyline is clich√©' and relative to other Disney classics,
but it felt so good to see and feel something that helped recall your
childhood. But other than those minor speed bumps, the movie is spot
on. The animation is spectacular, and you would be a fool not to see it
in 3D. The musical sequences didn't seem forced and were never boring.
And i can almost guarantee you that it will snag the best song award at
the Oscars. I'm just glad that they didn't work the story around the
music, which is what a lot of animated features tend to slip up on. But
this one did an amazing job of hybriding them together.

Bottom Line, ladies and gentleman, this is the Disney picture you have
been waiting for. It will definitely win your heart and please
audiences both young and old.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Tangled yesterday in 3D, and let me just say, I'm glad I did.
When I entered the theater and saw a HUGE line, I immediately noticed
that every person in the line was under the age of nine. Now, while I
was a little embarrassed, I was still too excited to see the movie to
care that much. Tangled's heroine, Rapunzel, is a typical Disney
princess. When I say that, I don't mean like Cinderella or Snow White,
waiting for her prince to come and get her. I mean like Ariel, Belle,
or Jasmine. She's curious about the world, headstrong, passionate,
beautiful, and, of course, sweet and kind. Oh, and she's a girl that
knows what she wants--to see a spectacular light show in person. But
Rapunzel is stuck up in her tower with her mother, Gothel. Now, as the
movie shows us, Rapunzel doesn't mind the tower all that much. She
really loves Gothel, and she's kind of scared of the world outside. All
she wants to do is see thousands of lanterns lit and launched into the
sky, which she watches from her window every year on her birthday. This
seems like a pretty reasonable request to me. But Gothel doesn't want
her daughter to leave the tower for her own selfish, vain reasons (that
you have to watch the movie to find out about). So poor, lonely
Rapunzel seems doomed to spend the rest of her life trapped in a tower,
watching and waiting for someone to come along and save her. And
someone does come along! The swashbuckling thief, Flynn Rider, steals a
crown and runs for cover before the palace guards can arrest him. He
just happens to end up in the secluded spot of the forest that
Rapunzel's tower is in. He gets one glance of her hair, then is knocked
out with a frying pan and shoved in a closet. After coming to, Rapunzel
bargains with her prisoner. She'll give him back the crown if he guides
her to the lanterns, then takes her home. Flynn agrees. The music in
this film isn't quite up to par with Disney's best (Circle of Life,
Part of Your World, etc.), but since it was written by Alan Menken,
it's definitely good enough to get into your head--and stay there. The
song "When Will My Life Begin", sung by Mandy Moore as Rapunzel, is my
personal favorite. The pop/country style is modern but fits the story,
and the tune is catchy. The other songs are "Mother Knows Best", "I've
Got a Dream", and "I See the Light". While Rapunzel and Flynn Rider are
great characters, I have to say that a certain Maximus the horse stole
the show for me. The speechless character's facial expressions and
quirky mannerisms are hilarious. He seems to hate Flynn, but he later
proves how lovable and loyal he really is. Pasqual the chameleon also
provides some comic relief, but the one to look for is a short, drunk
old man wearing only a diaper and wings. He has very limited screen
time, but he always says something hilarious. I saw this film in 3D,
which, although beautiful, probably wasn't a very different experience
than it was in 2D, except for one scene towards the end, when Rapunzel
and Flynn are surrounded by thousands of glowing lanterns. It was
breathtaking. I rate Tangled a 9.5/10. It's creative, visually
astounding, and possesses that Walt Disney magic that is so hard to
find lately. But don't just take my word for it. Spend the money¬óyou
won't regret it. 

P.S. I originally wrote this review on my new blog
(througharabbithole.blogspot.com), so I'd love if you'd check it out!
This is my only post so far, but more will come.
<|_=00=_|>
We took our two kids (4 and 6)to see a preview of this days before the
official release. In short, it was one of the best Disney films yet.
Everyone simply loved it. The 3-D effects were noticeable and
wonderful. We got a kick watching our 4-year-old raise his hands as if
to catch some of the action float off the screen. There were tears, and
much laughter, as is Disney's style. The story of Rapunzel is very well
told here, with great villains, heroes and wonderfully entertaining
scene-stealers, like the non-verbal horse, Maximus. The music is very
theatrical and very typical of the usual Alan Menken genius (Beauty and
the Beast, Aladdin, Little Mermaid, etc.). This movie is very
entertaining for adults, and the kids will absolutely go crazy for it!
Treat your family this season to a great movie! You won't be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney is back with Tangled and they have finally found themselves
again. First I have to say as much as I loved Tangled it made me sad
and angry that Disney could not accomplish the same thing for The
Princess and the Frog. Here was there one chance to showcase a Black
princess and they missed the mark by a football field. Well so much for
that.

Back to Tangled. The animation is more than great. The characters are
well drawn and thought out, especially the true villain-the old lady.
Disney movies are only as good as their villains and heroines; this
movie does a great job at both while also giving you a good hero. It is
funny and bright, cute and sad. Everyone should spend an afternoon with
Tangled. Though the music is not the "knock your socks off" great it is
good and goes well with the plot. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
A few days ago I saw "Megamind", and thought it was just okay. I
enjoyed it for what it was, but I didn't think it too spectacular. My
faith in CGI entertainment was on the wane.

Well, tonight Disney pulled me from that depression, and help
reinvigorate my belief in, well, just plain Disney.

What we have here is Rapuntzel turned on her head, with a dash of "Snow
White" and "Sleeping Beauty" stirred in to keep our interest.

The film was charming, clever and witty without being too much of
either. The comic timing was toned down for the young kiddies in the
audience, mostly little girls and some younger boys, but the comedic
aspect itself did not lose luster for this. If anything it showed just
what good clever comedy was. Note Rapuntzel's improvised weapon, and
how she brings it to bear on the baddies in the local tavern. Classic
character sketch comedy, and I don't care if I was the only one who
noticed it and was laughing. You're supposed to laugh!

The story itself regards fleeing the nest from a "Mime" like character,
whose interest in our heroine is less than altruistic. The dashing
rogue comes in to ground the story and keep Mandy Moore's character
from running amuck and falling into despair.

All in all, even though a middle aged dude like myself is no where near
the target audience, I enjoyed it immensely. 

Some criticisms; the villainess seemed marginally clich√©. She had the
liberated 70s woman gone bad thing going on for her, but it almost
seems like we may have seen this character before. Not sure, really.
The horse was extremely likable, but his rider could have played more
of a role. In fact the supporting cast almost seemed as if they were
denied screen time so we could revel in Rapuntzel's golden locks. For
all that, and even though the action did dive into classic Warner
Brother's cartoon territory, "Tangled" does make a very respectable
showing.

That, and it was good to hear the voice of Richard Kiel play a big
galoot who turns out to be a good guy. :)

My final note is that there was a very good message for young girls at
the end, and in fact anyone with some sense will have caught on to it.
It's a message that won't last too long, but hopefully will serve as a
reminder to those who paid attention. Remember, hair isn't everything.
Regardless of color *wink*

Take the family, but, if you're the father, then please, PLEASE, do not
spend countless minutes like the idiot in front of me paying for his
four member family with several credit cards while the ticket taker
next to him managed to whiz through four or five parties of several
members each for the 7:20 showing at the Redwood City theatre on
Theatre Row.

Yeah, if you're reading this, you know who you are. Stop being a putz!

Everyone else, go see and enjoy the film :)
