
This movie is not what you might expect. It is not your typical sports
movie, where a disparate team comes together to triumph over adversity
as the music swells with a dumb sense of pride. This is a movie about
people, kind of like Seabiscuit that way, except less happy and with no
horses.

This movie is about Odessa, a medium-sized town in Texas with no
economy and nothing to do besides obsess about high school football. It
is a town where they pay the football coach twice as much as their
teachers, where a boy's best chance out is to get a football
scholarship to a faraway college, and where these boys are under so
much pressure to win because the town seems unable to succeed at
anything else.

A movie like this depends on its actors, because it is a character
drama at its core. Much noise has been made of Billy Bob, and how he
gives a great performance, and this is very true, but he is not the
only star in this movie. The boys all do a great job too, especially
Lucas Black. I have never noticed this actor before, but he is so
intense as Mike Winchell that he makes you really feel for him. The
other boys, including Derek Luke and Jay Hernandez, are also
note-perfect.

There is a great moment at the end, after their final game, when they
talk about what they are going to do next. They haven't graduated yet,
but it is already over for them. There is a sense that nothing else
matters. Subtitles tell us what happens to everyone. It is sometimes
funny, often tragic, and always ironic, and you leave the movie feeling
like you've met some new people who are very real.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was phenomenal in every way. It had incredible performances
under a great director with a fantastic story to back it up.

It tells the story of a high school football team in Texas through the
course of their 1988 season. Billy Bob Thorton played the coach of the
team and give the best performance I've ever seen him give. The film
was directed by Peter Berg who gave it a unique film style. He managed
to tell this story in a very beautiful way.

Tim McGraw gives a great debut performance of an ex-high school football
player who has become the drunken abusive father of one of the players
currently on the team. He was almost unrecodnizable in this role and he
portrayed it well. He, and the rest of the cast for that matter deserve
a lot of credit.

This is the only football film I have ever seen that has done justice
to what it feels like to play football in high school. I played under
Friday night lights myself, that time of my life ended just a year ago
and it still holds fresh in my memory. And because of that I can tell
you how accurately this film portray's the sense of brotherhood and
friendship that is felt by every team, at least every good football
team.

Whether you ever played under Friday night lights yourself or not
anyone should be able to appreciate this film.

<|_=00=_|>
This is a very dark sports movie. It's about fanaticism, the great
weight of importance certain people place on sports. Sports fans often
regard their teams as extensions of themselves. In "Friday Night
Lights," the entire town of Odessa, Texas collectively puts their
town's reputation on the shoulders of a high school football team. It's
basically the same exact plot as "Varsity Blues," except a serious
version of high school football in small town Texas.

One thing the movie does extremely well is taking hackneyed plots of
the individual players (because it's all been done before) and putting
them all in the background. So the plots play out not in a cheesy,
inspirational, in-your-face way. Instead, they are just there with only
as much attention as the viewer wants to put on them. The great aspects
of sports are enough to keep us interested and makes the movie
incredibly real.

The only character whose plot is really focused on is Boobie, the cocky
running back who is injured and tries to defy his own injury. This is a
plot in sports movies that has been focused on somewhat - the injured
player. But never before has the pain been so real and so powerful.

This movie is heart-wrenching. Sports movies usually have so many
moments of redemption and cheesy happiness that often feel false. This
movie only has one such moment and it is incredibly powerful. Nothing
about this movie is Hollywood. Billy Bob Thorton gives a great,
understated performance as the coach, a man who is simply internal, who
can do nothing but sit back and watch events unfold, knowing full well
the impact that each game has on himself and his family. All the actors
playing the football players do a good job, especially the guy who
plays Boobie.

Don't expect this movie to uplift you. But it will show you an
interesting side of sports you may have never considered. And, in the
end, it shows exactly what is great about sports, and it has nothing to
do with winning or making a career out of the game. It's about giving
all you have for a teammate.
<|_=00=_|>

To be honest, I went to this movie primarily to see Christian Kane, but
the reviews had been excellent. I expected a cross between All the
Right Moves and Remember the Titans, but it was nothing like the
second, which was about two coaches forced to make their teams blend
into one while avoiding racial problems. There were elements of All the
Right Moves, though, as several of the young men expressed their desire
to get out of Odessa through football, but the movie focused on several
of them rather than just one. Its best companion piece in my opinion is
the Texas Cheerleader Murder, which shows the same football madness
from the other gender as they will do anything to be cheerleaders! 

Billy Bob Thornton was excellent as the coach, facing pressure on all
sides to win the state championship. An excellent touch was the large
number of for sale signs on his lawn after his team was blown away in
the game following Boobie's injury. The community put pressure on the
boys as well, everyone who owned a state championship ring from prior
years pushing them in the kids' faces. Tim McGraw was a revelation as
Brian's abusive father, and the actress who was Mike Winchell's mother
gave a brilliant performance.

All of the young actors were excellent, especially Derek Luke as the
unfortunate Boobie. He made the audience feel his pain and frustration.
Lucas Black, who had done such a marvelous job in American Gothic, has
a face that reflects his pain as he faces all of his tribulations,
which include the pressure of suddenly becoming the team's best hope
when Boobie is out and of having a mother with mental and/or emotional
problems. Every one of them is a gem.

The cinematography was outstanding, and the shots of the town and the
bleak surroundings certainly demonstrated why the kids wanted to get
away. Despair hung in the air, with people clinging to their moments of
glory as the only happy days of their entire lives. This was its
primary likeness to All the Right Moves, although the hated home town
was a Pennsylvania steel town (Johnstown, PA, which I escaped from
myself), not a Texas prairie city.

And what made things even more intense was that this was a true story.
Showing the boys' fates at the end was an excellent conclusion.

And Christian Kane? I knew he only had a cameo, as he had told Peter
Berg that he'd love to be in the movie and would take any part there
was. He was the man in the restaurant/bar who asked Mike Winchell if
he'd take a picture with him & his kid. He was long-haired, unshaven,
and, to be honest, if I'd seen him this way first, I'd never have given
him a second look. He did a good job as a "good ole boy," though!

<|_=00=_|>
"Gentlemen. The hopes and dreams of an entire town are riding on your
shoulders. You may never matter more than you do right now. It's
time."Â—Coach Gary Carter addressing his team.

For years, the Buzz Bissinger's book "Friday Nights Lights" has been
proclaimed as the greatest football book ever written. The story is
about the 1988 Permian Panthers from Odessa, Texas. In the book,
Bissinger illustrates how much high school football effects a town in
West Texas that has basically nothing to live for. Almost everyone in
Odessa is poor, train tracks divide the town the white and black
communities and the school system is below average, yet on Friday
Nights (as the tag-line of the movie says) "Hope comes alive".

The thing that I like most about the movie was the it didn't go away
from the book too much and the movie tried to imply the same themes as
the book did. Anyway, let's get to the actual movie now.

Unlike most sports movies where the viewer is spending about two-thirds
of the movie trying to figure out who all the characters are, "Lights"
actually does a good job in identifying all the characters. For
example, you will know who "Boobie" Miles is (the Panthers' star
running back) right when the movie starts. Another unique thing about
"Lights" is that when watching, it feels like the viewer is watching a
documentary, because movie does a great job on including detail on the
attitude the town and players carry throughout the story and highlights
from EVERY game are shown (something that never happens in sports
movies).

The characters in "Lights" make the movie great, especially "Boobie"
Miles (played by Derek Luke). Boobie is not only the best runner on the
team, he is probably the best running back in the state. On one play,
he broke three tackles and burned two other defenders. The only thing
that faster than his legs is...his mouth. He makes Terrell Owens and
Freddie Mitchell look modest. Whenever a member of the media talks to
him, he proclaims that he is God gift to football and how God made
Boobie beautiful and all that junk. When asked about his grades he
replies "I'm an athlete, I make straight A's". Boobie is obviously not
smart, when he was reading one of his recruitment letters from the
University of Southern California, he sounded like a five-year old.
Football and his uncle L.V. are the only two things that Boobie has
going for him.

The main character of the movie is Coach Gary Carter (played by Billie
Bob Thornton). Coach Carter's job is not an easy one. Throughout the
movie, he is constantly bugged by boosters and supports telling him
that he should imply this scheme or this player should play this
position, Coach Carter just ignores them, but he knows that
expectations are very high in Odessa (especially if they are the
favorites to go the Texas Bowl).

Another character(s) that make the movie great is Don Billingsley
(played by Garrett Hedlund) and his father Charles (played by country
superstar Tim McGraw). Don probably feels the pressure of playing for
the Panthers more than anyone because his dad as on a state
championship team for the Panthers and his dad is also an alcoholic.
During the first practice of the season when Don fumbled the ball,
Charles came running out of the stands and when yelling at his son
about "some little fumble". Don is ashamed by his father which is why
he probably the biggest playboy on the team as well. However, Don is
one tough kid (as evident in the final game).

Football is the only thing that Odessa cares about, after a loss a
person calls-in a local radio station to say "there's too much learning
going on at that school!" On Friday Nights, all the businesses are
closed, the Ratliff Stadium (where the Panthers play) is packed an hour
before kickoff and everyone is wearing black and white.

The game scenes are the best part of the movie. Some of the hits are so
hard, it would put Terry Tate to shame, especially in the final game of
the story. That game scene was the best I have ever saw because it
captured everything that goes on during a football game (trash talk,
adjustments, dirty play, emotion, etc.) Where does Friday Night Lights
among football movies? Personally, I think it's the best football movie
of all time. I have played football for nine years and I have seen
about every single football movie ever made and I will have to say that
this film truly captures what football REALLY is. If you are a sports
fan, you will love this movie.

GRADE: 9.5 out of 10.

FOOTBALL GRADE: TOUCHDOWN with the 2-point conversion
<|_=00=_|>
There are some nice touches here, things like the idiots calling in on
the radio shows and "for sale" signs on the family's lawn after a loss.
But overall I was disappointed. I haven't read the book so I don't know
how to compare it with the film, but on its on the movie left me flat.
Billy Bob underplays his part nicely, but I NEVER got a sense that this
was a veteran high school football coach at one of the more high
pressure, high profile programs in Texas. I love that actor who played
the QB, but again never saw him as a player of the caliber he was
supposed to be. Mostly, he just screwed up. The way Permian suddenly
started playing well in the playoffs didn't make any sense. The
assistant coaches were non-entities (as they almost always are in
football movies.) Would a high school coach not check with a star
player's doctor himself if there was an injury question? The flashy
black tailback (Booby) and the quiet but powerful black lineman
(Preacher) are almost stock characters, though both are well acted.
Actually the most interesting character was the Hispanic defensive
back, but the movie didn't do anything with him. The climactic game was
highly dubious. It's hard to imagine a team being that physically
dominant and then suddenly getting pounded for the last two quarters,
Again, I didn't read the book, but the movie overplayed Carter's
viciousness. Don't refs in Texas throw flags for that stuff? There were
more things in this film I liked and more I disliked, but overall it
was a disappointment. The great high school football movie remains to
be made. I guess I'll have to write it myself.
<|_=00=_|>
***Spoilers below*** 

For the life of me I don't understand how so many folks are so ga-ga
over this turkey. For me this was a complete snooze-fest until around
half-way through when it got entertaining simply because it was so much
fun counting up all the old, tired sports clichÃ©s they managed to cram
into it.

1. First, there's the setting: small-town, nowheresville Odessa, where
high school football is the True Religion, all the kids are desperate
to get out, and the football players are the local Gods who get all the
free food, booze and sex they want. And, oh yes, there are also the
Beautiful Sunset Shots and the Soaring Aerial Views of parts of the
town, especially the football field, that tip us off to the fact that
something beautiful is really going on under this bleak surface.

2. There's the troubled quarterback with the single mom (who may be
seriously ill). Early in the season he's a pretty mediocre player but,
when adversity strikes, he steps up and becomes the team leader with
skills only slightly less impressive than Troy Aikman's.

3. There's the kid abused by his father and his father's athletic
dreams who also, when everything is on the line, suddenly becomes one
of the team's stars. He also gets to listen to his father, in a fit of
remorse, lecture him on making the most of his senior year because it's
all downhill from there and these are the best memories he'll ever
have.

4. There's the strutting minority star player with dreams of riding his
athleticism to fame and fortune who suffers a serious injury, tries to
come back too soon (through the negligent inaction of his coach and his
beloved father-figure Uncle), and has his career ended. To drive the
point home, the film-makers show us the star sitting dejectedly after
his injury watching a group of trash collectors going about their jobs.

5. There's the solid, silent defensive star who has spoken hardly a
word, but during half-time of the Big Game he suddenly gives the
inspirational speech that fires up the team.

6. There's the calm coach in the center of the storm who, again during
half-time of the Big Game, gives the "it's not about the scoreboard,
it's all about what's in your heart, it's all about love, and you're
all winners" speech. This despite the fact that he has previously (and
negligently) ignored what he really knows about his star's serious
injury and allows him to play because he wants to win so badly.

**Spoiler follows** 

7. Then there's the Big Game itself in which Our Heroic Team gets
pummeled by the Bad Guys (including flagrant fouls and one incredibly
bad officiating call that make the crisis even worse)in the first half
only to suddenly find a way to claw their way back (with accompanying
swelling music) to one final last-second try that gloriously fails.
Then, for the next several minutes we watch in slow motion shot after
shot (from different angles of course) of the stars kneeling in noble
defeat next to that football just a few agonizing inches from the goal
line.

Then there are the Big Steals from Hoosiers:

1. The "Davids" from Odessa end up in the Big Game playing the
"Goliaths" from Dallas Carter.

2. The entire town of Odessa apparently closes down and the entire
populace drives across the state of Texas in a long convoy.

3. The "I love you guys" speech transplanted from the coach to the
troubled quarterback.

Unless you're looking for a primer on how NOT to make a unique sports
film, I'd suggest you avoid this turkey.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say first of all that I had high expectations for this movie.
I heard it was supposed to be a very realistic film about high school
football. Having heard that, I had in mind a high school equivalent of
a movie like Any Given Sunday, which I felt was amazing in representing
on-field play and (I imagine) very good about off-the-field goings on.
I must say that FNL didn't represent High School football the way I
remember it. I played for a fairly small school (about 500 students) in
a small but supportive town of 6000. I remember we had about 2000
spectators for one game. The kind of football represented in Friday
Night Lights is the kind that may be authentic for the large and rabid
Texas town in which it is set, but a brand which seems to me closer to
college football than the high school football that I and probably most
others remember playing.

I think the weakest part of the movie was the character development. By
the end, you could tell that certain players were supposed to have been
main characters, but yet you're left with a very empty and superficial
understanding of who they are. For example, there was one character
(who I won't name to avoid any kind of spoiler) who we find out in text
at the end went on to a very prestigious profession, and yet we had
been left with no particular impression that he was smart or ambitious
from the movie to that point. In fact, I felt that I knew almost
nothing about the character at all. I did feel a connection to one
character, Don Billingsly, although I thought even that was a bit
underdone, and to the quarterback Mike Winchell to a lesser extent.

The on-field and other football aspects of the film were alright,
although I think a bit generic. They are not particularly inspired
though, and don't convey the raw emotion and excitement of being on the
field particularly well. I don't know, but I am left to suspect that
the director and/or cinematographer may not have experienced high
school football themselves.

All that being said, it was still a decent movie. I don't feel I wasted
my time in watching it or anything, but it certainly did fall short of
expectations, and certainly is not of the same caliber as Any Given
Sunday, or even The Program.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly expected more from this movie. That may have been the
problem. There was not one time when the camera was still - ever. On
close ups, the camera shakes, the subjects move, and I get a headache.
The cuts are so often and so fast, that the viewer often finds
himself/herself wondering what just happened. (LOOK OUT, SPOILER ALERT)
And at the end of the movie, when you expect to have a happy ending
after being put through so much useless thought to comprehend what is
going on, they end up losing. To me, this was a basically terrible
movie, wrecked by a camera man with ADHD, and lack of a meaningful
meaningful plot.
<|_=00=_|>
The problem with Friday Night Lights is that the filmmakers let
technique get in the way of story telling. Peter Berg employed the same
camera style he used on his failed show Wonderland. Multiple hand held
cameras constantly shaking around with short snap zooms. It becomes
annoying and takes me out of the moment I want to pay attention to. I
didn't care about any of these people, because I wasn't sure who I was
looking at or supposed to pay attention to. I didn't know Billy Bob had
a daughter until an hour and 17 minutes into the movie. Is that
important? Probably not, but she was there to deliver a line about the
family needing to move again. I didn't care, because I didn't know
anything about his family. Either stick with the main characters and
main story or figure a way to fit it all in with out annoying
technique. Miracle is a good example of a successful sports movie
making. It was not gimmicky and we followed a lot more people. It
didn't jump up and down and say "Look how clever I am!" I'm also
displeased that the story was changed from the semi-finals to the
finals. Can the audience only enjoy the movie if the team is playing
the big game? Reality and truth can be a lot more interesting than
pandering if you have skilled writing and directing. I like Peter Berg
as an actor, but he still doesn't impress me as a film maker.
