
I admit three things.

1) Not a Lindsay Lohan fan. The only other LL movie I liked was The
Parent Trap. "Confessions...", "Freaky Friday", "Mean Girls", "Herby",
etc. I didn't enjoy them at all (which was surprising because normally
some of those flicks are my cup of tea). 

2) Frist time I saw a preview for "Just My Luck" I wasn't very
interested in seeing it. 

3) The only real reason I wanted to see this movie is because I loved
Chris Pine in Princess Diaries 2 and thought he was gipped on some much
deserved screen time in that one so I wanted to see what else he had to
offer - because honestly, that deleted scene from PD2 with him and Mia
(Anne Hathaway) in the kitchen was faboo and never EVER should have
been left on the cutting room floor. What's worse is that GM never said
WHY they cut that scene.

That said, I ended up loving "Just My Luck." Call me crazy and say I
have no taste. I don't care. I came for the hottie I stayed for the
movie.

Was this an award winning movie? No and I doubt it was ever hoped to be
by anyone who went in to make it.

Did it have flaws? Yes. (A few but a minor one that bugs me enough to
mention but has no real factor on liking or disliking this movie is the
freeze-frame at the end. Should have cut to black instead but that's
just me. Freeze-frames are tricky things that should be used rarely and
wisely.)

Does it deserve to be bashed and tagged as the "worst movie of 2006"?
Definitely not. As about two other people have said, this was a cute,
fun, escape-reality-for-90-minutes-to-an-hour kind of a movie with no
pretenses to be anything other that what it was.

Okay, so I agree that there were moments when Lohan's acting could have
been improved (the two that stick out in mind are when that blonde guy
first joins her in the elevator and when she's looking at the broken
mirror at the very end). But you can find bad acting in even the so
called "best movies" of the year. Sometimes no matter what they do,
some dialogue or scene comes off clunky. It happens. We move on.

Overall - considering my opinion on LL in general - I was pleasantly
surprised by her in this movie. She's another Julia Roberts to me. I'm
not a real fan but she's got a movie or two that I enjoy.

I thought Chris Pine was just adorable in that geeky, down on his luck
optimist who (in his characters own words) "gave up years ago. That's
my secret to happiness." He was tender and hopeful and just head over
heals for a girl who before the ball would never given him a second
glance.

I was surprised but glad that they didn't delve two much deeper into
the workings of this "change of luck" thing. You knew the kiss was the
key and as far as the actual workings of it all, that's all that
mattered. The more important part is what happens to the two
fortunate/unfortunate souls sucked in by this crazy bit of magic.

When the movie wound down to a close I thought of about a dozen
different ways it could have ended. The one they chose is the one I
love the best. Two people who would love to have good luck all the time
- having experienced the worse first hand - but would rather the other
be happy instead.

I loved the scene at the end when they both refused to keep the luck,
trading it back and forth until no one knew who had the luck and who
didn't. Ashley really grew to the point that she was willing to
sacrifice that for someone else which in the end made her deserving of
the great guy that Jake is.

And what better way to bring it all to a close then to give the luck to
a little girl who is still young enough to be either corrupted into
cynical thinking or learn the lesson that Jake and eventually Ashely
did; Luck comes and goes. What you do with that luck helps define who
you are.

Maybe I got a little to philosophical on a movie that I said was just a
bit of fun. I don't care. I thought this movie was all kinds of
wonderful. It's one that when the credits began to roll my first
thought was "I'll totally buy it when it comes out on DVD". That's how
I know I really liked a movie.

I see this movie as an underdog of sorts. And when it comes to movies I
tend to prefer the underdog. When someone talks up a movie too much it
tends to turn me off (It was only at the very last minute that I
changed my mind and decided to watch both Harry Potter and Lord of the
Rings, two series that I had sworn off due to people raving too much
for my tastes).

If that makes me a person with bad taste in movies, then so be it. I'll
live happy in my ignorance.

I would definitely see this movie again. And again and again. As I
said, I'll buy my copy of the DVD the day it's released.

I give this movie a ten because even though it wasn't perfect, I feel
the need to offset some of the really unnecessarily bad reviews and
scores it got from others.

AL
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, I didn't expect this movie to have been as hated as it
seems to be. It seems to have a high number of both 10/10s and 1/10s...
as if you either love it or hate it? Well, I loved the fact that the
movie distracted me enough to relax and unwind for an hour and a half.
I didn't think it was groundbreaking, so originally I was going to give
it 9/10, but also, I though it was very straightforward and plot twists
are usually important parts of dramas and romantic comedies.

The thing is, though; I've never expected romantic comedies to have
very much story or be very heavy on plot. So, all I was looking for was
something to occupy me... and I got it.

There's not much else to say, except that I really don't think the
movie was so bad that it deserves a 1/10. When you consider the genre,
it was fairly average. Plus, "blonde humor" is funny, and I think
that's why the girl-who-was-lucky was so silly: she was really not
accustomed to thinking critically, relying on her good luck (i.e. a
very positive, problem-free environment) to provide a platform for her
success.
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Just My Luck' Lindsay Lohan plays Ashley Albright, probably the
luckiest person alive (hence the name). All she has to do is scratch a
lotto ticket and she wins. But when fate comes knocking, she
accidentally loses her winning streak to Jake Hardin (Chris Pine). What
is Ashley to do when she falls in love with the guy who stole her luck?
This is a cute teenage movie without a lot of substance. I think
Lindsay's fans will like it, but I think this has very limited appeal.
It is a combination of 'Freaky Friday' and 'Confessions of a Teenage
Drama Queen', but not nearly as funny.

It had a good message in the end, but who cares. The best part of the
film was when Ashley takes a beating after losing her luck. She has to
learn what life is like for the less fortunate. But I still would not
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie, then again i guess i am in it's target audience. I
love Lindsay Lohan's work, and saw Chris Pine in the princess diaries,
so i guess i was always gonna love the story anyway. I loved the way
Lindsay as Ashley had everything then lost it. I think that one critic
said this movie was bad, and they all agreed with him! They aren't the
target audience and they should remember that! The story basically is
that Ashley (Lindsay) has everything then looses it in one kiss to bad
luck magnet Jake (Chris), which turns out Ashley being unlucky and Jake
getting all the luck. If i had to say something bad about the movie it
wud only b that McFly don't hav to be in it to make the story work, it
cud have been any band. But keep up the gd work, Lindsay, and ignore
the things they say about you!
<|_=00=_|>
I like to call myself another victim of the magic of advertising. Once
I saw the trailer of "Just My Luck", I thought it would be great.
Since, I liked "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" by the same director, I
thought this movie would be something like that. However, I was very
wrongÂ… 

The main problem with this movie is its script, which is very immature
and predictable. There's nothing new to see here and you can predict
almost everything. I even guessed the ending of this movie as soon as I
saw the scene where "Katy" and "Ashley" talk for the first time. If you
are into movies, you will too...

If you overlook the silly script, then there comes the bad acting. What
is wrong with Lindsey this time? She is totally overacting her part and
the actresses who play as her two friends are not any better. It is as
if they are doing roles of fairytale princesses. However, in my
opinion, Cris Pine does his part well.

However, I am not saying that this movie is 100% garbage. It has two or
three enjoyable scenes, but that's about it. In my opinion, "Just My
Luck" has a great concept, if it was not for the childish script and
bad acting this could have been a very entertaining comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
In Manhattan, Ashley Albright (Lindsay Lohan) is a lucky woman and very
successful in the agency where she works. The clumsy Jake Hardin (Chris
Pine) is an unlucky aspirant manager of the rock band McFly, who is
unsuccessfully trying to contact the entrepreneur Damon Phillips
(Faizon Love) to promote his band. When Ashley meets Jake in a
masquerade party, they kiss each other, swapping her fortune with his
bad luck.

"Just My Luck" is a very silly and predictable comedy, but also
entertaining. Lindsay Lohan is charming and adorable as usual and shows
a good chemistry with Chris Pine making this movie work. Further, the
story has no villain and all the characters are nice. Forget the
private life of Linday in the tabloids and enjoy 103 minutes of fun in
this forgettable fell-good movie. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Sorte no Amor" ("Luck in Love")
<|_=00=_|>
Loved the film, loved the idea, loved the romance, loved the comedy and
loved the music. This was watched by me and my sister in the cinema and
now after watching it another 3-4 times since then, I can still say
that I love this movie. THe concept is good, the idea of two individual
people, made for one another, but completely different when it comes to
luck. Lohan is a happy lucky young lady, who is envied by her friends
as she gets luck after luck. From being promoted in her job to dating
an eligible bachelor, she has everything a girl could want from an
extravagantly beautiful apartment to expanding wardrobes. She is living
everyones dream life. Pine on the other hand is not so lucky, in fact,
he is nowhere near. Trying to get the band he is managing noticed, he
comes across many funny, comical moments, such as picking up a 5 dollar
bill which has been used to pooper scoop. THis and many other bad
things occur until the two meet at a Masquerade party and inevitably
kiss on the dance floor, switching fates.

From the beginning I liked this film, Lohan (until most recently) has
been one of my favourite teen actresses since I watched Mean Girls and
Confessions of a teenage drama queen. THis is a brilliant chick flick
and definitely should be watched by all.
<|_=00=_|>
There were so many factors that made me smile all through the movie.
When I bought a ticket along with my sister, I entered the theather's
doors not knowing what to expect. I have loved watching Lindsay Lohan
in Mean Girls and Chris Pine in the Princess Diaries 2, but seeing them
together in one movie was bliss. Although you don't see Ashlee(Lohan)
and Jake(Pine)communicate until like 30 minutes into the movie, you
can't help but try and push them into a FAITHFUL situation. Not just
that but I loved seeing Ashlee's friends stick by her through it all.
With comedy and romance, this movie made laugh and wish I had my
boyfriend close by. I especially loved how the movie ended, sweet and
with a great message.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not the worst movie of 2006 as I have heard it often cited,
Little Man and Date Movie are much worse. But it is no Pan's Labyrinth
or Children of Men either, nor did it need to be. Instead it is a
flawed but reasonably entertaining film. It is predictable in the story
yes, it runs out of ideas at the end(didn't like the freeze frame for
example) and the script and characters in a sense are clichÃ©d. However,
the film does look good with striking locations and fashions and the
photography is above adequate. The soundtrack is bright and breezy, the
pace is snappy and there are some amusing situations. Plus the entire
cast are likable and do give it their all, while she has been
better(ie. Mean Girls and Freaky Friday) Lindsay Lohan is very
charming. All in all, not that bad in my opinion. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie that doesn't deserve the hate it gets. Its helped
the world recognize the talented lads McFly but also show the ups and
downs of luck :)

Nine outta ten for Me! (theres always room to improve :))

Ooh btw i dunno if its a spoiler or not but in da trivia thing :

Audio/visual unsynchronized: In the scene when Jake first goes to the
bowling alley to hear McFly rehearse, McFly and Jake talk about giving
the CD to Phillips. After Jake goes to clean the toilet McFly resume
their song. Danny's voice can be heard singing harmony with Tom, but he
is nowhere near his microphone in the shot.

its actually Dougie (Poynter) harmonising with Tom. Just clearing
things up!
