
Almost 40 years after the original the 2005 version shows how much the
world has changed. To start off with there is a woman passenger in this
film unlike the original where the only female was an exotic Arabian
dancer (although a mirage). In this version the frail girl passenger is
a foul-mouthed oil driller who wears the obligatory tank top and
spandex pants once the boiler suit has been discarded.

In addition to this we have two black men, one who is the co-pilot. In
the original the Mexican dies in the ill-fated march through the desert
however in 2005 the Mexican survives. (The writers are probably
sensitive to the many Mexicans who die trying to cross the Arizona and
Texas border in hot conditions). In fact he defies almost certain death
when the wing of the new construction collapses on top of him but
survives. In 1965 the cocky Scotsman survives but in the 2005 the
Scotsman perishes in the shoot out with the nomads. Interestingly, we
are still aloud to use nomads as the cruel bad guys, again in the
original it was the Arabs who were the barbarians, that won't cut
today, so it's probably why outer Mongolia was chosen.

However, the writers slipped up with their choice of the anti-hero. In
the original the blond hared blue eyed bespectacled trouble maker was a
German called Dorfman, who menacingly portrayed the stereotype of Nazi
arrogance and superiority who audiences back in 1965 (20 years after
the war) could easily hate; yet he turned out to be the hero in the
end.

To bring it up to date and really be politically correct they should
have used a Muslim. We all could have hated him but then hailed him as
a hero in the end too. All in all a pointless remake and for die-hard
fans of the original they may have a hard time swallowing this one. The
original, which is a longer movie, is superior in portraying the
hopelessness of their predicament as well as the underlying tensions
between the survivors. Cowardice and bravery are on show in the 1965
version, but in this one ---, just stupidity!
<|_=00=_|>
"Flight of the Phoenix" is at best a so-so remake of the fine Robert
Aldrich adventure classic from1965. The plot in both films is fairly
simple and straightforward. After a plane crash lands in the Gobi
Desert, the survivors hit upon the notion of rebuilding the damaged
vehicle in the hopes of flying it back to civilization. Dennis Quaid
assumes the role, originally filled by Jimmy Stewart, of the pilot who,
against all odds, endeavors to lead his passengers to safety.

Although the new version follows the original fairly closely in terms
of both character delineation and plot development, the story doesn't
seem quite as fresh today as it did when we first encountered it close
to 40 years ago. Perhaps what's missing is the guiding hand of a master
craftsman like Aldrich to really deliver the goods (John Moore, a far
less distinguished director, is manning the controls here). This
"Flight" feels awfully predictable and rote, as we plow our way through
each of the various survival threats, rescue attempts and internecine
personal conflicts that are standard in all such tales of survivors
stranded in a hostile environment. Each of the characters steps out of
the shadows to have his or her own Moment in the Sun (yes, in this
version, there is actually a woman aboard), before receding dutifully
into the background to allow the next person to do the same. About the
only intriguing element in the story is the fact that the main
character, the pilot of the plane, has to actually be talked into
participating in the Quixotic rescue plan. Thus, he is a leader and a
hero more by default than by design.

Although the crash itself is fairly impressive from a technical
standpoint - despite a rather phony-looking, computer-generated
sandstorm that brings the plane down - once we end up on the desert
floor, the movie doesn't do a particularly effective job conveying the
truly grueling nature of the predicament these individuals are facing.
We never really get the sense that they are just a few water droplets
away from dying of thirst or heatstroke. Moreover, the feat that they
are able to accomplish seems barely credible - from a sheer mechanical
engineering standpoint - given the lack of resources and expertise with
which the group has to cope. The main weakness with a film like "Flight
of the Phoenix" is that, when the plane goes down, we're stuck in the
desert right along with the characters, and if they don't have anything
particularly interesting to say to one another, we can feel just as
stranded as they.

Thus, despite a few quality moments, this "Flight" never manages to get
off the runway. Check out the original instead.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are planning to see this movie, don't bother. It's a poor remake
of a very good old movie. As a pilot, and from a pilot's point of view,
the crash scene was completely unbelievable. If you aren't a pilot, you
may enjoy the crash scenes, but I can tell you that the plane would
have been in tiny pieces before it ever hit the ground. Once it hit the
first sand dune, it would have broken up into small chunks after the
first ground strike.

The interaction between the actors was forced, and never really
developed.

The most unbelievable part came when yet another! freak sand storm
comes up and the Phoenix is sitting on the sand and starts to lift up
as if ready to fly. A few moments later, you see the fuselage of the
original plane rolled over by the wind. Yet, the Phoenix doesn't get
blown away (even though it's got wings (the fuselage doesn't)) and it's
trying to fly as the wind picks up.

Next, we see our heroes sitting on the sand and the Phoenix is almost
completely buried but the sand blown around by the sand storm.

Quite dramatically, the decision is made to dig the plane out of the
sand. Give thought to trying to dig a 2 bedroom house out of a 10 foot
drift of sand after spending a week or two in the desert with little or
no water, a few cans of peaches and you have an idea of the task facing
our heroes. To get an idea, just go out in your yard and dig a hole 2
feet deep and 2 feet square. It will take you a LONG time to do it.
Imagine doing it under the conditions described above! Yeah, right! The
next scene shows the Phoenix dramatically out of the sand, clean and
undamaged, and ready to fly! Once again, yeah, right.

Finally, our heroes get the plane started with a hoard of Mongolian
Marauders chasing them into flight. Of course, there is the perfunctory
scene when a cable to the rudder is shot away by automatic rifle fire
and the engineer has to climb back on the fuselage to dramatically fix
it while keeping from falling off or getting shot by the hoard of
horsemen. Ho hum.

And, of course, we all fly off into the sunset.

Get a copy of the Jimmy Stewart version. A much better film.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's just a few things that make no sense...

1. They fly out of a mine site in Mongolia (Gobi desert - frozen high
altitude wastelands). But they crash in a hot sandy desert that looks
pretty much like the Sahara where they are all running around in short
sleeves. How did that happen? They flew from central Asia to Africa?
The Gobi just got 40 degrees hotter with a whole lot of sand? 2.
Aeronautical dude says the plane is overweight. If that's so, how did
it get out of a high altitude airfield in the fist place? And it didn't
just creep off the ground if ripped into the air at a ridiculous rate
of climb.

3. Last night when the new plane is ready, it gets completely buried in
a sand storm, except for the tail. Damn! What a sandstorm. A whole
plane buried in one night. But even more amazing, they dig it out in
one day using only one shovel. So that's say .... a couple of thousand
tons of sand? And that's not even counting the runway, which presumably
would have been buried too.

4. They decide to earth the plane in an electrical storm. Well that
would make it a brilliant path to ground for an electric strike,
ensuring that it gets completely destroyed. Passenger jets get struck
by lighting quite often but they always survive because the lighting
doesn't have a path to earth through the jet. Grounding of planes is to
prevent static discharge during fuelling, not to dissipate a lighting
strike.

5. The petrol cans explode when some sparks drift onto them. Don't they
always on Hollywood? (dangerous part of the world). Petrol does not
explode unless it is in the exact ratio of 14.7:1 with air. That's why
cars need a carburettor. Otherwise, it just burns. Anyway setting fire
to the spillage on the outside of a can won't make the contents inside
it burn, let alone explode.

6. An exploration site gets shut down, but the workers don't know until
some some dickhead pilot turns and up says he's there to take them
home? Yeh, right, that would happen.

Tons of other unbelievable nonsense. Not worth spending any more time
to write about it. I got ripped off with this DVD. Worst movie in
years.
<|_=00=_|>
Comparing this new version to the original would be comparing a farm
horse to a thoroughbred from the Kentucky Derby. This version has new
actors filling the shoes of established characters, and yet none have
the quality to hold the story on course, causing it to crash like their
airplane. The original had James Stewart and Richard Attenborough, both
with performances worthy of academy awards and established the
foundations of a true classic. In addition, the rest of the cast stood
of themselves and even Ronald Fraser gave a most stirring performance
as Sgt. Watson. Superior veteran actors like Peter Finch, Hardy Kr√ºger,
Ernest Borgnine, Ian Bannen, Christian Marquand, Dan Duryea and George
Kennedy, all gave the original solid star power and allowed the Phonix
to rise from the screen into the memory of it's viewers. This new
version has Dennis Quaid as Frank Townes, sympathetic enough, but far
less convincing of his character. All in all, the new version falls,
like most remakes, well short of the original. Sorry, but this film
should have been left in the desert with the remains of the fallen
airplane. **
<|_=00=_|>
I've not seen the original, before you ask, but I do know of it, and
quite frankly I'm sick fed up of remakes. Yet there was something that
attracted me to this story, the cast was one. A nice multi-national
crew featuring Dennis Quaid, Hugh Laurie and Tony Curran, and the fact
that it's a very simple story with nothing other than desert and cast
to deal with. It kind of gave me the feeling of a slightly larger Ice
Cold in Alex.

Unfortunately I was watching it on Sky and at my parents, that means no
surround sound and the picture was cropped, damn Sky. However we didn't
seem to lose much of the feel of the movie.

The cinematography value here is high. The movie looks great, it does
seem as though they have high production values. The opening sequences
with the plane flying over sand dunes are superb, and then when it hits
the storm the effects are excellent and it's at that point the action
really kicks in, before that we were introduced to the varied
multi-national characters and their initial roles. The crash sequence
is well filmed and edited and builds the tension superbly, all the
shots here are believable, and have you on the edge of your seat. After
this the action really dies down for most of the movie, only restarting
at the end, when the believability also flies out the window in favour
of Hollywood action.

Quaid is very good in this movie, an actor who I wish we really did see
more of. The rest of the cast is an interesting ensemble from Curran to
Kevork Malikyan, and it works well. I know that when I see a lone
Scotsman in a movie it usually grates like hell with me, partly because
they are usually played by Americans, but also because it just doesn't
seem to fit, here it does because the entire cast is a mishmash of
people. It really does feel like a group of remote oil workers.

The plane designer, played by Giovanni Ribisi is a terrible character,
slimy, loathsome, and someone that you would expect to be a serial
killer. Ribisi plays him really well, and through the movie the tension
is built in a series of near clashes between characters, until the
final clash which turns into a satisfying climax for the character and
the movie.

Disappointingly the ending is very formulaic and makes all the
Hollywood bells and buzzers flash and bleep, therefore making the
Studios and their misinformed test screenings happy. Through the movie
a band of vicious Nomads are mentioned, and a small clash occurs
between some characters and a Nomad scouting party, but apart from this
they are pretty much useless and are merely a very poor tension
building device. This is surprising when the rest of the tension
building moments are so much better formed.

That said, there are some idiotic moments where you just cannot believe
the characters and the decisions they are making, never mind some of
the outcomes. My father was almost shouting at the screen in despair.

All said it is an entertaining and effective movie, just suspend your
disbelief concerning the reality of the situation after the crash, and
grit your teeth through the Hollywood ending, and you've got yourself a
good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This remake of the 1960's Flight of the Phoenix is very unsatisfying.
The character development is not as rich as the the James Stewart
version. Dennis Quaid simply did not portray the depth of emotion that
James Stewart did in the original. Giovani Ribli was good as the model
plane designer but again he didn't get enough scenes and Harvey
Kruger's portrayal had a lot more edge. Also missing was the Richard
Attenborough character who keeps the Phoenix project going. His role
was combined in the characters of several of the cast in the remake.

Now, I am not saying this is a bad film. I view it as a companion piece
to the original. The special effects were awesome. Being trapped in the
Gobi or Sahara (as in the original) was more meaningful to me when I
saw the vast desolation of the desert in this remake. See the original
Phoenix for its wonderful character study and see the remake for it's
special effects and you have one fabulous picture. The original Phoenix
stands on its own. My recommendation is see the original and then view
the remake.
<|_=00=_|>
In the original movie Hardy Kruger commented to Jimmy Stewart something
to the effect that "the only thing outstanding about you is your
stupidity". Interestingly enough in the remake, stupidity seems be the
only thing that "outstanding".

I have been on foreign oil drilling assignments and can guarantee you
that you would never see a woman anywhere near a drill rig. As a matter
of fact, the same thing applies in the US. Women just do not work as
roughnecks. You do see women engineers and professionals, but never as
workers.

The remake is just plain lame and an excellent example of "corporate"
creativity trying to milk a good story just one more time.
<|_=00=_|>
I have the greatest respect for producers and directors. Regardless of
the quality of their work, they must struggle to bring their personal
vision to film, and this requires intelligence, technical proficiency,
artistic sense, and the skill of a great storyteller. So why do so many
directors do remakes of classic movies that deliberately do away with
the qualities that made the earlier version(s) as great as they are?
Why not fiddle with the less important aspects of the movie? In the
original "Flight of the Phoenix", there are several aspects of the film
that are essential to the movie; the complete absence of women, the
contrast of the claustrophobic setting of the crash site against the
vastness of the desert, the lack of backstory for the characters, the
revealing of the hidden hopes and fears of the characters through pure
dialogue, and the total isolation of the men from outside influences
(with the exception of the encounter with the Bedouins.) The 2004
version of the movie basically does away with all of these elements,
and the result is not positive.

The original movie was basically a stage play, with limited special
effects and a setting that could easily be reproduced on a stage. I
don't believe that John Moore improves the movie in any way other than
the introduction of some brief, but impressive, special effects.

I also have to point out that some of the reviewers have obviously
never seen the original 1965 version, or, if they did, they paid little
attention to it. One reviewer, for example, observes that the pilot,
Frank Towns, has to be talked into leading the effort to rescue
themselves, suggesting that this was somehow a new element in the
story. Fans of the 1965 version will recall that this was a major plot
element, wherein Towns did not wish to be responsible and did not
believe that the effort to rebuild the plane would be successful.

As many others have said, see the original first. Then, if you really
want the 21st century special effects, see the 2004 version.

Additional Comment: I just watched this again because a friend had not
seen it. These people were the dumbest fools that ever got stranded
anywhere. Not to mention that, aside from a minor touch of sunburn,they
stay in miraculaously good shape without hats, sunscreen, or any other
significant protection.

** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
This remake of the more successful 1965 film of the same title was
shown on cable recently. We were curious as to how the great screen
play by Lukas Heller had been adapted by Scott Frank. The film,
directed by John Moore, has taken the action from the Sahara to the
Gobi desert. The result is a thriller that has some good moments, but
in the end, doesn't improve in the better made earlier film.

The scene for this new version takes us to a remote spot in Mongolia
where a woman engineer, Kelly, and her crew, are evacuated because the
company she works for decides there is no oil to be found in that
remote spot. Next, we watch as an aircraft piloted by Frank Towns,
arrives to take everybody to Shanghai, China. A mysterious man,
Elliott, who doesn't have anything to do with the oil company, comes
along for the flight to China.

On the way, the plane suffers an accident caused by the terrible sand
storm affecting the region. They land on the desert with only minor
casualties. The aircraft seems to be out of commission, but Elliott,
who tells the stranded passengers that the plane could be rebuilt, gets
to act as the leader of the whole operation. In fact, he is an engineer
who knows how to do it. Since they have the proper tools they begin to
transform the wrecked cargo plane into something that resembles a toy
model, which Elliott promises will fly. Little prepares us for what
really turns out to be Elliott's real job.

The film has some moments, but the direction doesn't take it anywhere.
The cast does what it can with the material they have been given.
Dennis Quaid, Giovanni Ribisi, are seen as Capt. Towns and Elliott.
Miranda Otto, a good actress, plays Kelly, who didn't exist in the
early version.

Seen as a curiosity, it will entertain, but for a better take on the
same subject, a look at the former version will be more satisfying.
