

I really enjoyed Radio and think it was one of the nicest movies I have
seen. I think it a movie for everyone and teaches many lessons about
life. I was also amazed to find out that the move was based on a real
man. With all the tough road blocks Radio came across he continued to
move forward even though the future was uncertain and he didn't have
the mental capacity to understand much around him! I thought that Cuba
Gooding Jr. played a tremendous role and should win an Oscar for this.
I felt for him so much and it made me cry because of some of the hell
he went through. I also thought Ed Harris played an incredible role as
the coach. This movie really moved me and made my laugh, cry and
ultimately feel good at the end! What a movie!

<|_=00=_|>
'Radio' tells the true life story of a high school football coach who
befriends a severely mentally retarded young man (whom they nickname
'Radio' because he loves listening to the radio so much), lets him hang
out with the team, and, thereby, changes not only the boy's life but
the lives of just about everyone in the South Carolina town in which
they live. When Radio's behavior on the sidelines begins to serve as a
distraction during the games, some of the less sympathetic, die-hard
football fans of the town make an effort to downplay his role or
eliminate his presence altogether.

Set in 1976, 'Radio' is a thoroughly predictable, sentimental heart
tugger that will have people either gagging on the syrup or crying in
their popcorn. For all its heavy handed manipulation, however, 'Radio'
turns out to be a pretty decent little film due, primarily, to the
superb performances by Ed Harris and Cube Gooding Jr., and to the fact
that the movie doesn't overplay its hand as often as it might. In fact,
it wisely underplays much of the conflict, allowing the moments of
quiet subtlety to predominate. As played by Harris, Coach Jones is a
solid, decent, caring man who can't help but give his love to a fellow
human being who needs it. Harris' soft-spoken strength makes us believe
in the goodness of the man. The film does an effective job conveying
the incredulous reactions of many of the otherwise well-meaning town
folk, as even Radio's own mother asks Joe why he is doing what he's
doing. The scenes between Jones and this woman, lovingly played by S.
Epatha Merkerson, are some of the finest in the film. The movie also
isn't afraid to confront the issue of whether the people of the town -
and that includes Jones himself - aren't actually being patronizing
towards Radio in their treatment of him, and whether he isn't more of a
'mascot' for the team than a bona fide member. Gooding Jr. slips
effortlessly into the role of Radio, making him a compelling figure
even though he has virtually no lines of dialogue in the movie. Alfre
Woodard is excellent as the caring but nervous school principal who
sees Radio's presence on campus as a potential threat to student
safety, but who has enough faith in Jones to give Radio a chance to
prove himself. It's nice to see Debra Winger in a movie again, although
her role as Jones' ever-patient, ever-supportive wife, doesn't give her
much room to strut her stuff as an actress. 

There's no denying that 'Radio' is a humanity-of-man type film that
could easily set the teeth on edge with its Goody Two Shoes philosophy
of life. Be that as it may, 'Radio' turns out to be a warm, uplifting
film that even Scrooge would probably like.
<|_=00=_|>
The fact that the movie is based on a true story contributes to a
better and, of course, more realistic experience and keeps the viewer
focused on the basic theme of the movie. The story is filled with
unexpected twists which keeps the viewer at all times from figuring the
ending out. In one moment you think that something happens to Coach
Jones or Radio. Well it does, but certainly not what you'd expect.

The film becomes at no point boring or too sentimental and the acting
performances by Ed Harris & Cuba Gooding Jr. are some of their best in
my opinion. The ending puts a long lasting smile on your face and makes
you wonder if what you are doing is right. Well I guess that was what
Michael Tollin & Mike Rich were trying to do. First-class movie.

Esbj√∏rn Nordby Birch. Denmark.
<|_=00=_|>
EXCUSE ME!!! HellOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!! CUBA GOODING,Jr. Should Have Won
An Oscar For His Portrayal In This Film!!! He WAS the film! While the
film may be lacking in some areas, Cuba was awesome... and for me, this
is the best role that he has ever played! The scene in the movie where
he finds out that his mother has died made me break down and cry IN THE
THEATER!! I guess I could really relate to this film because I saw the
same treatment of people just like that at my own school growing up...
what a tragedy! Getting to see the "real" Radio and coach at the end of
the movie was really special too! If you can watch this movie and not
be moved to tears, you need a heart check! If you liked "Simon Birch"
and "The Mighty", you'll love "Radio" too! I wish they made more movies
like this...Radio is the Real Deal!
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best films I have ever seen! How anyone can knock
this movie just befuddles my imagination! First of all, Gooding's and
Harris's performances were simply spectacular, especially Gooding. That
is the only way I can describe the acting: spectacular! You have to
imagine how difficult it would be to play a character like that and
pull it off; then you see Gooding, and his performance was magical. As
for the plot, since it was based on a true person, it goes where the
lives of the characters go. For all the action buffs, it might be a
little slow, but then it's not an action film. I definitely give this
movie a 10. It deserves nothing less!
<|_=00=_|>
This was unusual: a modern-day film which was ultra-nice. In fact, it
was so nice it bordered on being too hard to believe in parts. As I
watching this based-on-a-real-life story, I was thinking, "nobody is
this nice, this tolerant." Mainly, I was referring to Ed Harris' role
as "Coach Jones." I think they went a little overboard on his
character, but that's better than the reverse: showing him worse than
what he was in real life. Odd to see Harris playing the role, too,
since he has a long resume of playing nasty, profane characters.

Anyway, I never complain about a nice, feel-good film, and it is nice
to see a bunch of well- meaning, kind people. Those folks direct their
friendship, love and compassion to "James Kennedy," better known as
"Radio," a mentally slow high school kid played by Cuba Gooding Jr. The
story takes place in the mid 1970s in South Carolina. Gooding does a
nice job with the role, too. However, like Sean Penn's role of a
mentally-challenged man in "I Am Sam," an hour-and-a-half of a
character like this is plenty. After that, the loudness of those guys
gets tiresome to hear.

Note: It was interesting in one of the documentaries on this DVD to
find out that, in real life, in took years for "Radio" to make his
transformation, not months as shown in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Not much to it but a validation of small town values and the embracing
of a mentally challenged young man into its heart.

I read some of the reviews and was surprised at some of the hostility
it engendered. I felt Cuba Gooding handled the part with dignity and
respect unlike Sean Penn's drooling fool portrayal in "I am Sam."

The fact that this is based on a true story makes it all the more
heartwarming. Sports are taken seriously in small town high school
America (and elsewhere, I suspect) and I felt the portrayal of these
competitive students opening their hearts to one less fortunate rang
true, at least for me.

The coach was never forced to choose between his daughter and Radio but
rather came gently to the decision himself under Radio's loving and
open ways. Very well done to all. 7 out of 10.

Debra Winger, we need more of you in pictures!
<|_=00=_|>
Can a mentally challenged black youth be a catalyst to unite people in
a South Carolina town? The answer appears to be that in spite of his
handicap, James Kennedy, understood much more than what he was given
credit for and went to become a fixture in the sports scene. Also, the
film is saying how many of us overlook people with problems that can be
helped if only we have the patience Coach Jones showed to the young man
because of his own guilt in his heart.

"Radio", directed by Michael Tolllin, is a formula film inspired on a
true story. Yet, the movie is not a complete failure because of the
inspired performances the director was able to get from his wonderful
cast.

Coach Jones is instrumental in getting the young man, who is called
Radio because his passion for collecting them, involved in sports, a
passion he discovers in this retarded man who has had only hard knocks
in his young life. Coming from a poor background, Radio, lives with his
mother who is protective of him and questions the coach's intentions.
Radio is seen by the school kids as a mascot, at first, then, his sunny
disposition wins him the acceptance of everyone because he is a good
person without an ounce of malice in his body.

The film owes a lot to Ed Harris and Cuba Gooding Jr. who make a great
pair as the coach and Radio. Mr. Harris, one of the best actors of our
times is never boring in anything he graces with his presence. He gets
the essence of the principled coach who sees the possibility to make
amends for something that bothers him from his past. Cuba Gooding Jr.
is also at his best portraying the mentally challenged young man.

The supporting cast is excellent. S. Ephata Merkerson, one of the best
actresses of her generation, does interesting work as the mother of
Radio. Alfre Woodard, another good actress plays the high school
principle with style. Debra Winger, only has a few scenes in the film.

"Radio", while being sentimental, will warm anyone's heart because it
shows how we tend to see some people are in our society that we know
nothing about and how quick we are to judge them. Michael Tollin puts a
lot of ideas in the proper perspective for us.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought Uptown Girls was the most touching movies of 2003. But after
seeing this movie, I now think it comes in a tie with Uptown Girls. It's
perfectly well acted by Ed Harris and Cuba Gooding Jr. The story is set in
1976,football coach Harold Jones(Ed Harris) is hard drivin in pratice, he
seems to have very little time for his wife and daughter(Debra Winger and
Sarah Drew). But his view on life begins to change, when he meets James
Robert Kennedy(Cuba Gooding Jr) who has a very slow learning process. Harold
asks him to come to practice and help out a little. The two form a
friendship, and Harold gives him the nickname Radio. But they soon begin to
learn a lot from each other. A very beautiful film. That teaches us a lot
about the human spirit. I shore hope that Cuba Gooding Jr gets nominated for
an oscar. 
<|_=00=_|>
Corniness Warning. As many fellow IMDb users already know, I'm not a
corny, cheesy person. If you don't want to read this kind of review,
then go.

To tell you the truth, you're hearing this from a man who laughed
through Titanic and almost broke his parents' tape from continuously
rewinding the propeller scene.

---Spoilers---

One day, I went off to the theatres with two friends to see Dickie
Roberts: Former Child Star, last year in August. The boring trailers
rolled on until one started off so calmly. It was for Radio. The moment
I saw the trailer, I just had to see this movie on opening weekend.
When that weekend rolled along, Scary Movie 3 was out too so many
teenagers were there waiting in line that Friday night. It turns out
the movie sold out and those teens were so desperate to see a movie,
they went and also sold out Good Boy and Radio. I couldn't get a ticket
and the following weeks, I was busy with more important things. About 5
months later, my friend rented Radio. He let me borrow it and I watched
it in my room. I'll tell you this now, this is the ONLY movie I have
ever seen that got me crying EVER. When Radio's mother died, it just
came out automatically. The next day, I went off to Blockbuster and
bought the DVD.

Well enough of my stupid personal story, let me tell you about the
movie.

Cuba Gooding Jr. stars as a mentally challenged man nick-named Radio.
Ed Harris co-stars and this movie is directed by Mike Tollin. Based on
a true story, Radio is a teenager who has a life by spending most of
his day alone. He goes around with a shopping cart picking up whatever
he can and is always carrying a radio around. He's got his own
collection. At the end of every day, he goes home to his mother. He
never went to school until later in the film. One day, Radio passes by
the local high school while the football team is practicing. A football
flies over the fence and Radio picks it up and continues on. Ed Harris
plays Mr. Jones, the football coach. They meet and this is the life of
Radio.

Throughout the whole movie, Radio and Coach Jones spend quality time
together, both teaching each other things. It is beautiful to see how
the movie goes to the highest joys, the lowest lows, and just seeing
Radio live his life. You will laugh, cry, and live the life of Radio
with him. This movie holds a special place in my heart along with Toy
Story and others. This is a must-see for the whole family, by yourself,
or if you're someone who just wants a great drama. Radio is one of the
most beautiful movies I have ever seen. Radio will never be forgotten
by me. Never.

As Ed Harris' character said greatly near the end of the movie:

"We're not teaching Radio, Radio is teaching us."

My Rating: 8/10

Eliason A.
