
Directed and co-written by Shane Black; based on a novel, "Bodies Are
Where You Find Them" written by Brett Halliday; and starring Robert
Downey Jnr, Val Kilmer and Michelle Monaghan.

A terrific opening credit sequence easily sets up the audacity and
chagrin of the film for an appreciative audience. In essence, these are
the reasons why you need to see this movie: the razor sharp wit,
shockingly fast-paced and hysterical dialogue, pulp-fiction-esquire
vibe, its pure cheesiness and the cynicism of a beat up old paperback
detective novel. 

Got you yet? Alright, maybe an explanation of the seemingly simple plot
is warranted. It begins with a ridiculously funny set up resulting in
Downey's character being paired up with Kilmer to observe the latter in
his job as a private detective. They hook up with a down-on-her luck
actress who brings a case for the sleuths. This synopsis constitutes
gross misrepresentation on my part as things get remarkably complex.
How so? Well, even the lead the character (who also is purposefully
pathetic as narrator) takes time out within the movie to remember where
he is in telling the story. There are even snippets of dialogue where
the characters attempt to fill in the gaps or actually remind
themselves of what has happened thus far in the movie. 

Downey, Kilmer and Monaghan are all caricatures drawn from popular
references of literature, movies and art. All however, are larger than
life, exhibit great chemistry and for a movie buff, it is heaven to
witness the self referential exercises and hear the narrator shred
every narrating convention applicable. Downey's performance is
remarkable (neurotic, comic, vulnerable and charming). I have never
seen Kilmer in such a well-defined, uproarious piece of work. Monaghan
is also integral to the trio and shines exuding a brash, fighting and
sexy appeal. She brought back fond memories of early Kathleen Turner
and Rene Russo. The fact that her look screams Renee Zellweger, is not
a bad thing either. 

Black became famous in the 1980s for writing the hit buddy movies:
Lethal Weapon, The Last Boy Scout and The Long Kiss Goodnight. As a
first time director, he does well keeping the frenetic pace and
allowing the audience to catch up only to get lost time and time again.
The style is so disarmingly effective, that at times I shook my head in
confusion or found my hands against my mouth, agape in shock. I also
think that in creating such a brilliant script that Black may have
blacklisted himself in Hollywood for mirroring its supposed fame and
glamor and exposing its not too pretty side. His one-liners and
connected sub-plots are not typical and Kilmer and Downey make magic
with their banter and clinical delivery. 

All the ingredients of a pulp-noir novella can be found, even employing
a structure of chapter-type headings within the movie. Parallel story
lines unfold and given plot assumptions are turned over, always with
achingly funny results. Even the clich√©s are clever e.g. a tough guy
predictably crashes through a glass table, or body after body turns up,
to haunt the characters.

I strongly recommend the movie, given the talent of Downey and Kilmer.
Downey should be honored with a Lead Actor Oscar nomination; while
Kilmer deserves a Supporting Actor nod. It thrilled me to see them both
in their element, as I was on the verge of disavowing them as
marquee/box-office draws. The screenplay should also attract Oscar
consideration. 

One of the year's best films and one of those rare movies where you'll
consistently find something new to laugh at, when viewed each of a
dozen times.
<|_=00=_|>
The term "Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang" was first coined in the 1960s by the
Japanese press as a nickname for James Bond. Director Shane Black loved
the term and chose it as the movie's title because, "it so clearly
represented what this film is." And what exactly is this film? Good
question. For starters, it's original. It's a nice change of pace from
all of the sequels and remakes we've been inundated with recently. I
needed this breath of fresh air after being blind-sided by the news
that a remake of Robocop might be on its way.

It's also funny and action-packed. The pace comes at us almost as
quickly as the clever dialogue, making it nearly impossible for the
average viewer to get bored. You may be offended, you may not
appreciate the dark humor, and you may not get the style, but I would
predict the majority of you won't get bored. Will I refund your ticket
money if you *do* get bored? No, absolutely not. Don't be silly. I'll
just say, "Oh well, I guess you're just in the minority on this one!"
What I like most about Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang is it's so hard to
"genre-lize." See what I did there? Add that term to the Movie Mark
Dictionary. When you can't "genre-lize" something then you can't easily
force it into any one specific genre. Clever, huh? That's what makes
Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang so fun. Is there action? Yes! After all, it's by
the same guy who wrote the Lethal Weapon movies. But it's not an action
movie.

Is there humor? Indeed. The laughs mostly come from the chemistry
between Val Kilmer and Robert Downey Jr. and some of the crazy
situations they find themselves in. This is my kind of dark humor. I
love to be caught off guard by unexpected moments that make me laugh at
things that might not be so funny if they were witnessed in the real
world. But this isn't a comedy. The humor is never forced and doesn't
have to resort to slapstick or flatulent puppies just to get cheap
laughs. Sure, there's a scene that involves peeing on a corpse, but it
has to be seen in its context to be appreciated.

If I were forced to affix a label to this then I suppose I'd say it's a
darkly comedic murder mystery. It takes itself just seriously enough to
keep you in suspense, but it's irreverent enough to simply be fun and
entertaining. It works well enough as a farce without ever coming off
as a pure parody.

My main complaint is that the story does get a little too confusing. I
admit that I openly mocked other reviews that called the story
"needlessly complex," but now that I have seen it I totally understand
what these reviews are talking about. You'll want to pay careful
attention or you'll get lost pretty quickly. I'd even suggest taking
notes. If you're not careful you'll become so immersed with keeping up
with the rapid-fire dialogue that you could lose focus on the plot
details. It's not mind-blowing, but there are just so many characters
and minutiae to keep up with that it's easy to lose track of what
exactly is going on. If your friends call you "ol' goldfish attention
span" then you could be in trouble.

I'm not going to lie to you and tell you that this movie is for
everybody. The language gets pretty rough, there is strong sexual
content, Val Kilmer is a detective who just happens to be gay and jokes
are made at his expense, there's a decent amount of gunplay, and some
people just might not appreciate the unconventionality on display.

But I loved the fact that this wasn't formulaic and that the look and
style was different than the norm. Black admits to de-saturating the
colors in post-production to give the film a crude, rough look. Perhaps
some might like their movies a little more bright, but I thought it was
quite effective at giving the film the pulp detective story vibe that
Black was going for.

I wouldn't recommend this to my mother, so I won't pretend to know
whether this fits *your* taste either. It all depends on how you view
these kinds of things. Is it gratuitous or knowingly over-the-top?
Clever or too clever for its own good? Cheesy or comfortable in its
self-awareness? Ask yourself what it takes to offend your senses and
let that be your guide.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at the 2005 Toronto Film Festival and expected it to
be the typical film noir genre. This seemed to be the case for the
first couple of minutes of narrative monologue before the jokes started
coming fast and furious. This turned out to be a highly entertaining
comedy/buddy film couched in a tongue in cheek film noir setting. The
dialogue was witty and the chemistry between Robert Downey Jr and Val
Kilmour was great. Some of the jokes went by so fast that I'll have to
see this movie again to see what I missed as I was still laughing at
the previous one. The director spoke before the movie and commented on
how the producers were nervous about the risky choice of actors. This
was a reference to Robert Downey Jr.'s past addiction problems, but
this film proved that he was worth the risk. I saw 10 films at this
year's film festival and this one was my favorite.
<|_=00=_|>
Without a doubt I thought that this was truly entertaining film. I only
managed to catch it at my local cinema in a one off showing, but I
really wasn't disappointed.

Me and my friend went in the film not truly understanding what to
expect. Basically it cracks down to Robert Downey Jr. starting the film
off as a burglar, after being shot at he accidentally runs into an
acting audition. Breaking down with tears in the office, he
accidentally gets the acting job and whisked off to Hollywood with
hopes of playing a detective in an upcoming film.

Cue Gay Perry a.k.a Val Kilmer who is fantastic in this film with his
dry wit and humour adding some hilarious scenes to this film. He plays
a gay detective assigned to help train up Robert Downey Jr. The pair of
them get sucked into a story starting with discovery of a corpse and
building into deeper plot involving kidnapping and murder. The plot
line is genuinely well crafted, and is explored in the perfect amount
of depth. It is quite simply littered with many funny moments. Probably
the favourite of mine being the running joke of the gay detective
through the film, involving the 'faggot' gun. Shane Black directs this
film superbly, keeping it alive with sharp wit.

The whole cast clicks together perfectly with Robert Downey Jr and Val
Kilmer shining with good support coming from Michelle Monaghan. The
film is accompanied by a very light hearted narration from Robert
Downey Jr. which makes the film that even bit more engaging.

Overall, a quirky, very amusing film, with a superb cast, and with a
run time of 99 minutes, you simply can't afford to miss it.

Kiss Kiss Bang Bang... A solid 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
KKBB was shown at the Fantasy Filmfest in Germany. This festival for
horror, sci-fi and thrillers is touring Germany in several big cities.
KKBB was the opening movie in Cologne and it got a feverish applause
after wards.

I can only say that this movie is one of the biggest surprises in the
Action/Thriller/Comedy-Genre in the last years. If you liked Black's
scripts for Last Boy Scout, Long Kiss Goodnight, Lethal Weapon etc. for
their tongue in cheek humor, wicked dialogues and sick ideas, you're
gonna love this movie.

The cast delivers and gets the movie going. I don't want to spoil it
for you, but Black still has some very cool one-liners and dialogue.
Downey Jr is really amazing in this role as your typical
looser-criminal kind of guy.

The film struggles a bit at the end, but it was so much fun to watch
nonetheless. The Teaser Trailer came out today, so you might want to
watch that. Luckily doesn't already show you the best parts.

I really hope that this movie attracts a big audience, because Black
has definitely written and directed a highly entertaining movie,
showing you Hollywood behind the scenes. Watch this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Kiss Kiss Bang Bang is like a wildly expensive hooker who looks like
she's worth millions yet is actually worth a hell of a lot less, but
when the ride is so damn good you just can't complain and you'll be
telling all your friends. Put another way, Kiss Kiss Bang Bang has a
certain something which the murder mystery genre tends to lack - a
sense of fun. So much so, that I was crying with laughter!

After an incredibly stylish opening credits sequence, we discover that
Harry Lockheart (Downey Jr.) is our narrator and also a criminal. After
breaking into a toy store to get his nephew a Christmas present, the
alarm brings the attention of the police. Harry escapes only to stumble
into a film audition. He miraculously gets the part and is immediately
whisked off to LA to receive detective lessons for his role from
private detective 'Gay' Perry Van Shrike (Kilmer). While at a party,
Harry meets struggling actress and childhood friend Harmony Faith Lane
(Monaghan) and stupidly explains that he is a private detective.
However, it's not long before Harmony soon asks for his help when her
sister is found dead.

All the trademarks of a cheap pulp murder mystery novel are here -
deaths (obviously), sex, trashy clubs, a beautiful blonde who ought to
be advertising shampoo, wrapped up corpses, crazy clues and more twists
than a pole dancer on cocaine. Can you believe it; the film even
predictably has a bad guy fall through a glass table. Ooh, how
exciting! What makes this stand out is the genius that is writer Shane
Black, responsible for Lethal Weapon, The Last Boy Scout and The Long
Kiss Goodnight. Kiss Kiss Bang Bang makes for Black's directorial debut
and he must have a PhD in wit (a word a lot of critics will be using
when describing this).

Robert Downey Jr. looks rough and downright cool as Harry Lockheart,
the quintessential loser hero whom the young male audience will aspire
to be. Harry is a good-hearted criminal (they do exist) who stumbles
amidst the superficial gloss of Hollywood movie making and the murders
taking place in LA. You can't help but root for him as he constantly
tries to stay alive and make sense of the crazy scenario he's landed
himself. This is a role that's likely to push Downey's career into
overdrive, making him the next best thing... again... for the third
time. Just like classic film noir, Harry also narrates the story, but
what makes this all the more comical is that unlike the overused
hard-boiled detective, who gives the audience a dark and moody
voice-over, Harry can't even narrate properly! 

That Val Kilmer makes for one tough homosexual, a welcome change of
stereotype. Delivering a memorable performance as 'Gay' Perry, Kilmer
is at his best when doing just about anything with Downey. Every one of
their conversations raises a smile if not a laugh. With the right
material, as seen here, he can handle humorous roles and this would
certainly rank as one of his funniest. Michelle Monaghan is seductively
charming as Harmony Faith Lane (which is what every parent ought to
name their daughter). Coincidentally playing an up and coming actress,
she'll definitely be catapulted into more work after this, since that's
usually what happens to up and coming actresses who undress in a
mainstream film. She manages to hold her own amongst the male leads
mainly due to her character's nature to go out of her way for just
about anything, thinking little about the consequences.

Not only does the film show us Black's love for the trashy detective
novels and the murder mysteries of film noir, but his love and hate
relationship with movies is also apparent. Taking the usual workings of
what goes into the makings of a film, Black adds a new spin and
manipulates these formulaic conventions such as narration, flashbacks,
extras and credits. Can you say "post-modern" boys and girls? Movie
buffs are likely to get a kick out of these 'self-aware' moments.

The film works as a showcase for Black to present his razor sharp wit
during a number of absurdly thrilling and comic set pieces, each one
clinging onto what is essentially a routine murder story as dense as
the American government during a natural disaster. Unfortunately the
fast pace leaves you with little time to piece all the clues together
as the film skims over plot details. So much so that the lead
characters have to do some obligatory explanations just to hook in
anyone who is completely lost.

The brilliantly written characters and scenarios is what keeps one
watching, but if a little more hot loving was given to the frequent
twists and findings that occur then this could have pushed itself
further as an eccentric little masterpiece. Still, where else will you
come across the sight of Robert Downey Jr. hanging above a freeway by
grabbing onto a corpse's hand sticking out of a coffin, which is
somehow miraculously suspended in mid-air... only in a Shane Black film
ladies and gentlemen! 

Neat touches such as Perry's mobile phone ringtone, Downey making a sly
remark about his past narcotics habit and a
'too-clever-for-its-own-damn-good' closing scene (which does look like
it's been tacked on at the last minute) simply adds further icing on
the already overly sweet cake.

The film treats you with its diverse absurdity and Shane Black's
creativity of snowballing situations pumped with his remarkable talent
for outlandish one-liners. Its fusing of a killer script and cool
characters makes Kiss Kiss Bang Bang this year's Hot Ticket and one of
those rare examples as to why I go to the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
The immensely likable novel "Bodies are where you find them", written
by Brett Halliday, has been adapted for the screen by Shane Black and
the result is one of the funniest movies playing around. "Kiss Kiss
Bang Bang" boasts an amazing dialog with some of the wittiest lines of
any film in recent memory.

The film pays a tremendous bonus to fans of the genre, which combines a
detective story technique with some amusement and irony thrown in. The
result is a fun time at the movies. Mr. Halliday pays tribute to those
forgotten cheap pulp fiction novels that were so popular at one time in
this country.

The director has to be congratulated for combining the talents of two
actors that pay off in unexpected ways. Robert Downey Jr., one of the
best film actors, is paired in this movie with Val Kilmer, who tends to
play heavy roles, but has never been seen as he is shown in the movie.
Both these men compliment one another in ways we didn't expect. The
chemistry between them seems to indicate these two actors had a lot of
fun while making the film, as it shows in the way they play against one
another.

Lovely Michelle Monaghan is seen as Harmony, a beautiful young hopeful
working her way up in Hollywood. Also in the cast Corbin Bernsen, who
is seen as Harlan Dexter. Larry Miller has a few brief moments in the
picture.

"Kiss Kiss Bang Bang" is a witty and intelligent film. Thanks to its
director, Shane Black, it's a film to be treasured.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a special screening of the movie yesterday and I thought it was
going to be so boring, but I was entirely wrong! It was very funny and
well written. It was a refreshing take on screenplays and acting and
its great to see Robert Downey Jr. back again. Val Kilmer's role as Gay
Perry was also spectacular. Michelle Monaghan looks like she can be Liv
Tyler's little sister but with more substance (sorry Liv Tyler fans) I
loved the sarcasm and humorous one-liners used throughout the movie.
The constant reference to real life actors and movies gave it an almost
"real life" feel. I recommend this movie for a good laugh and great
narration by Downey, Jr.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect much from this at all, but it turned out pretty good.
Think of a Raymond Chandler murder mystery, updated to a sort of modern
and enormously... self-aware buddy film-noir. Yes, a buddy-movie,
film-noir, murder mystery, crime-thriller, all rolled into one hip
modern self-referential update, packed with amusing references to all
the clich√©s of the genres depicted. Before you can even think about the
next clich√© in the film, it grabs it, makes a mockery of it and
proceeds at break-neck pace. 

Petty thief Harry Lockhardt (Downey) is a lovable loser who
accidentally winds up in the movie business, auditioning for the part
of a private detective. Val Kilmer plays the real private eye, Perry
Shrike (half the fun is picking the right name!) who has to learn him
the trades of the business, but soon they both wind up in a murder
mystery with so many twists and turns (and bodies), it'll make your
head spin. 

Downey and Kilmer seem to have the time of their lives, but not to the
viewer's expense. Perhaps a bit too clever for it's own good with so
many "clever" plot turns, that I was lost in the end, but perhaps I'm
not as clever as I wish to. And I must say, Michelle Monaghan! Wow! She
really gave one sexy performance! It derails a bit in the end and goes
so wildly over the top with shaggy-dog jokes, ridiculously stupid bad
guys and buddy-clich√©s, it makes Austin Powers look like a
straight-faced classic. But as a whole very entertaining, with snappy
dialogue, clever writing, and enjoyable performances. Just lots of fun.

Camera Obscura --- 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
A lucky mistake shifts out-of-luck criminal Harry Lockhart (Robert
Downey Jr) from the gritty streets to glossy showbiz in L.A, landing
him a part in an upcoming film. Another mistake then shifts him from
actor to private detective, and this is where Val Kilmer comes in and
things start to go wrong, more wrong and unbelievably wrong until
they've snowballed into an enjoyable detective mess -- all to impress
failed actress Harmony (Next big thing: Michelle Monaghan).

Shane Black's directorial debut 'Kiss Kiss Bang Bang' is a comic film
noir. Even in the dazzling opening credits using a montage of contrasts
of red, black and white, it is evident that this is no run-of-the-mill
crime story, but a viciously entertaining ride from scene 01. What
makes it so special is that it mixes equal doses of humour and crime
like a $15,000,000 blender, pouring out a balanced end product and
glazing it with a clever narrative coating by Robert Downey Jr. Black
also sprinkles some rapid-fire dialogue onto his product, which is
facilitated by the comedic chemistry between Downey and Kilmer. Some of
the lines, gags and images are truly laugh-out-loud worthy. Everything
else is nice, but forgettable.

Its only problem, as far as I can see it, is its paper-thin plot. It
does not seem believable; it is complex, dizzying and not nearly as
involving as it would like to be. So back to formula on that one, and
Kiss Kiss Bang Bang would be a near-perfect comedy-thriller.

7.5/10
