
The movie WAS NOT a series of disjointed vignettes, NOR was it lacking
plausibility, as many critics have complained. Perhaps living on one of
the coasts makes you too cynical and uptight to enjoy a movie that is
based on the relationships and culture of the ordinary person. This
movie was like reading a good book. If you've ever had a deep thought
about life, or questioned the path your life has taken, or found
pleasure in the small moments found in relationships with real people,
you will find something in this movie that touches a chord within
yourself. I think Cameron Crowe masterfully crafted a summary of those
important moments in our lives that are meaningful. It didn't require a
long, drawn out explanation. How many times do we think back to a
particular moment, and all we remember is the person, the relationship,
and the music tied to that moment? A song can take you to a precise
moment in your life. He made that connection to all of us, through the
life of one fictional character. I found myself enjoying being a fly on
the wall, watching the characters, relating to the events, laughing at
the poignant humor, and savoring the road trip reflections at the end.
This was a movie worth watching, just because it is about the truths of
life. The critics missed the boat on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
For the critics who say this film meanders and rambles, I have to say
this: When your dad dies, your life meanders and rambles. I can't speak
for everyone who has lost a father but I can speak for myself, and I
thought it was spot-on in it's portrayal of the confusing
roller-coaster that surrounds the death of a parent. Elizabethtown has
all of the things you'd expect from a Cameron Crowe movie: a unique and
personal story, great music, beautiful cinematography, surprising humor
(I was actually choking from laughing so hard during the videotape
scene) and very real and touching moments. I thought the acting was
great. Orlando Bloom gave a touching and subtle performance. Kirsten
Dunst's accent did go in and out a bit, but she and Bloom had such
great chemistry that it didn't bother me at all. Susan Sarandon was
perfect, Alec Baldwin was hilarious, the Elizabethtown residents were
quirky and fun...if I have a complaint it's that the amazing Judy Greer
was underutilized. Overall, this movie had everything that a great
movie should have. Shame on the critics who panned it simply because it
didn't follow the usual Hollywood plot mapÂ—this film is about taking
the scenic route and making the trip meaningful, and that's what it
did.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie hopeful but not expecting too much, given the
poor reviews I had seen for it. I walked out impressed and touched,
surprised by how much I really enjoyed it, and wondering if other
people would give it a chance and enjoy it, as well. Time will tell.

The things that I liked about this movie are easy to feel but not so
easy to describe. There were moments that really got to me, bits of
scenes that touched me and caught in my memory, and time and again I
found myself nodding and smiling and thinking, "I know exactly how he
feels," or "I remember that feeling." Somehow, this story was good in a
different way than Garden State was good. I loved Garden State, and the
plot of Elizabethtown is enough like Garden State that it was hard not
to have it in mind when I sat down in the theatre, but the two movies
are really quite different. Crowe's Elizabethtown felt more real than
Braf's Garden State, and somewhat less contrived.

Elizabethtown is the kind of movie you should see on a sunny autumn
afternoon after a walk with an old friend. It has a joy to it, a basic
sense of optimism and a light touch, so that it never crossed the line
from sadness into tragedy and melodrama. Crowe doesn't let us fall into
sentiment, but he deftly weaves a story that could have been corny and
sentimental in lesser hands. I read critics who said he let the music
play the emotions for us, but I can't agree, because I think that the
cast did an excellent job portraying people I could really feel for and
with, especially Orlando Bloom.

Orlando Bloom's Drew Baylor is introduced in a moment of pain and
panic, utterly emotionally blocked, repeating "I'm fine" while feeling
suicidal and saying "My condolences" to strangers and distant relatives
as if the loss of his father belongs to them and not to him. In the
film, he relaxes and grows emotionally under the tutelage of Kirsten
Dunst's Claire, and together they work their way through the American
heartland into a tender relationship and a new perspective on the
meaning and value of life and success. His American accent and her
Southern drawl might both be a little off at times, but it was easy to
forgive in the interest of watching what happened next.

From the side stories of the secondary characters (Susan Sarandon is
delightful, as always, in a turn as a widow whose reaction to her
husband's death is to reach out and grab life with both hands) to the
road trip into Americana, all the quirky little moments that felt real
and sincere made this movie one that I enjoyed watching and will think
about and remember. I hope you enjoy it, too!
<|_=00=_|>
If I listened to critics, I would never have gone to see this movie.
Luckily I mostly ignore critics. I sat through this movie in an
audience that cried with me, laughed loudly with me, groaned at a
couple parts with me, and clapped when the movie ended. We all walked
out smiling. There were a couple of dumb scenes but mostly this "life
journey" movie was filled with moments we can all relate to and
understand. 

Orlando Bloom was perfect in his role. His facial expressions, his
willingness to let go, and his timing was right on. I am not sure about
the choice of Kirsten Dunst. She was good but I think she was not quite
right for the role. I could have done without the Susan Sarandon role
altogether but I am not a huge fan. The side story of Chuck and Cindy's
wedding weekend was so appropriate to the life aspects of the movie. 

Cameron Crowe has created a quirky, funny, sad, happy movie that made a
couple of turns I did not expect. The road trip at the end was so
familiar and brought back enough memories to leave me wanting more.
This is a movie I will see again in the theater and add to my DVD
collection.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching the previews, one might expect some movie about a guy who
loses a bunch of money. But that's just a hook. It's not really what
the story is about.

This is one of those road flicks, where Bloom's character Drew is
forced to go on a journey of sorts... and in the process realizes that
while he was busy trying to succeed, he missed out on doing all the
things that really matter.

This movie has all the markers of a Crowe flick... an awesome
soundtrack for starters. What is unexpected about this movie, though,
is how funny it is. It deals with some heavy subject matter (death,
suicide, failure) in a way that's fresh... and light. There are some
scenes that had the audience crying, they were laughing so hard.

It has many of the same American nostalgic qualities to it, that orange
dusty tint to the American landscape that ultimately makes most people
nostalgic for a home they've never had. The small town, where everyone
knows your name (or in this case, your dad's name). 

Crowe introduced this movie saying that a lot of the scenes were from
his memories of childhood and his family's eccentricities, which you
definitely see. He completely succeeds in capturing the moments (often
embarrassing) that families share... and outsiders never get to see.

All in all, it's a fantastic gem. If you liked Almost Famous, you'll
love this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Cameron Crowe has managed to capture life in a single film. I've never
seen a Cameron Crowe film before, so I didn't know he was capable of
that. Basic storyline, Drew Baylor has to go to Elizabethtown, Kentucky
from his home in Oregon to plan the funeral of his father and meets an
interesting young woman, Claire, who helps him feel like he can live
again. You see, I have a Southern family, and when I say Southern, I
mean deep fried, as in Tennessee and Mississippi. I saw in this film a
true Southern family with all of its dysfunctions and with all of its
love. Southerners do have a distaste for outsiders, a love of food, and
a strange fascination with death, but once they know you, they will
take you to their bosom. And Crowe manages to portray Southerners
without making fun of them, which is not something a lot of people
manage. He juxtaposes a wedding with a funeral and both are big affairs
in the south as they should be in life. The last part of the film is a
road trip mapped out by Claire (Kirsten Dunst) that Drew (Orlando
Bloom) takes with the ashes of his father. He sees the place where
Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated. And he visits the memorial of
the Oklahoma City bombing. I'm going to stop here and say that I am a
native born Oklahoman, and I was in the third grade on April 19, 1995.
It was nice to know that somebody who is not from Oklahoma remembered,
respected, and honored the victims and the survivors of the tragedy in
such a way. Orlando Bloom and Kirsten Dunst both give wonderful
performances (probably the best of both of their careers) in this film.
Dunst is perfect at being sweet, Southern, and mischievous. Bloom is
great when he's having his heart-to-heart with his father (who is in an
urn) and he's laughing and crying at the same time. This happens in
real life a lot, but you rarely see it in movies because so few actors
can get to that place emotionally and sell it on screen. Overall, it's
a beautiful film. I laughed, I cried, and I fell in love.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why the Boston Globe Critic hated it, but I loved
"Elizabethtown!" My wife and I don't go to a lot of movies, so we
choose very carefully when we do. 

This film was anything but predictable, and it really kept moving. It
tells the story of a young executive, Drew Baylor(Orlando Bloom) who
has just launched a new high-tech athletic shoe at a company a lot like
Nike, Reebok, and their ilk. Early on in the movie, he learns that the
shoe is a billion dollar flop and leaves in disgrace. For eight years
he has worked day and night for the company, "married to his career,"
so to speak. So when his world turns upside down, he's so lost he
attempts an almost clever suicide plan. Then, things really get bad. A
frantic phone call from his sister tells him that his father has died,
very suddenly while visiting his family in Elizabethville, Kentucky.
His sister, and especially his mother (Susan Sarandon) take it so hard
and can't even go to the funeral.

On the way Dtew meets a most unusual flight attendant, Claire (Kirsten
Dunst in a delightful role) who shakes up his world. Drew of course is
not his usual self with two major tragedies at once, and at first has a
very difficult time mixing in with his father's family. An endearing
performance by Paula Deen of the Food Channel leads the unlikely
collection of his Kentucky family. Claire keeps showing up and brings
Drew back into the world. You can tell from the brief flashbacks and
other clues that Drew's father Mitch was really a great guy, and Drew
comes to regret the fact that he had not spent much time with his Dad
in his eight years as a Corporate Superstar.

I won't go into the story much more than that because that would be
giving too much away. I'll just say that this movie took many
delightful turns with Claire, Drew, and his zany family. 

I think the most important thing I took away from the movie is that no
matter how bad things get in your life, you should never give up. And
of course, don't we all have a family back home somewhere made up of a
homespun, delightful cast of characters? I have my own dear family back
in Pennsylvania and Ohio. When all else fails, your family is always
there.

Crowe has stuffed a great sound track into the many scenes of the
movie. The cast is delightful. There are some really entertaining
moments including Drew's cousin's rock band playing "Free Bird" and
Susan Sarandon tap dancing to "Moon River." There are so many great
lines, you'll laugh out loud! And of course the ending -- a surprise,
but a delightful one! 

Don't miss "Elizabethtown!"
<|_=00=_|>
Elizabethtown is a mastery of subtlety; instead of being a movie to
escape reality in, it is a movie that enables you to examine yourself.
At first glance, the characters and plot may be dismissed as
"two-dimensional" and "uneventful," however, that is not the case. Like
people in general, Kirsten Dunst's and Orlando Bloom's characters are
struggling inside the awkwardness of life. They are both struggling to
differentiate their public personas from their deeply private
individual emotions. In discovering each other, they find an outlet for
accomplishing just that. The movie gives one more than the chance to
examine and understand the characters - it holds up a mirror so that we
can all see in plain light own facades and struggles. What each person
gets out of the movie is unique, but the overriding message of the
movie is to let go of baggage and live life without fear. It is an
optimistic movie, and provides cathartic healing almost as much for the
audience as it does for the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
No other filmmaker captures the wonder and sweet, sweaty palmed
innocence of new love better than Cameron Crowe. Crowe's unique view of
the world, of the US and pop culture isn't naive - he's aware of and
recognizes the flaws and horrors of the world around us but somehow
sees beyond...his work is about the simple joys of being in love, of
being alive, of the gentle eccentricities of mankind. I love him and
ELIZABETHTOWN is his magnum opus, a funny, quietly moving, Rockwellian
comedy with a glorious turn by Dunst and a likable one by Bloom. Many
people will recoil at this film - like a symphony, it has many
movements and complex orchestrations and certainly it isn't without
flaws (lengthy running time, Sarandon's tap dance finale)but when it's
all said and done ELIZABETHTOWN is a warm, endearing and romantic
celebration of life and love. As usual, Crowe brings his passion for
pop music to the forefront, breathing new lyrical life to classic rock
and obscure B sides. I LOVE what he did to Lindsay Buckingham's
acoustic version of Fleetwood Mac's BIG LOVE.

Hey...I adored this movie. It WILL stand the test of time and Crowe,
God love him, is an artist to be equally cherished.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Cameron Crowe. Let's make that absolutely clear. The casting of
his movies is superb not to mention the writing or the sound tracks.
Here, however, in Elizabethtown, the leading man is a hole on the
screen. No charisma, no projection, no involvement. I'm not a teenage
girl, I grant you that, but I don't think Cameron Crowe made this film
for teenage girls. There was something about returning, about
rediscovering and/or perhaps about first love. Elizabethtown aims
higher than most teenage bound movies. The comatose performance of
Orlando Bloom makes everyone else appear as if they were high on
something. Billy Wilder is always a little bit present in Cameron
Crowe's movies and Kirstin Dunst's character is a Wilder character if I
ever saw one. I kept seeing the young Shirley MacLaine, or longing for,
I should say. Dunst is an interesting actress but here she has to work
with a wooden leading man, so that piece of miscasting throws the whole
well intentioned enterprise way off course. Never mind, my love and
admiration for Crowe will survive this one.
