
Pierce Brosnan and Salma Hayek are a pair of diamond thieves fighting
an endless cat and mouse game with an FBI agent (Woody Harrelson) until
they decide to retire and move down to the Bahamas. When a cruise ship
arrives carrying a priceless diamond, the chase begins anew.

After the Sunset is a pretty ordinary movie with some entertaining
moments and a lot of gorgeous scenery. It won't challenge the viewer at
all but it will offer a pretty enjoyable ride. The premise is fairly
simple and it is nothing really new. Brett Ratner keeps things easy and
safe as he moves the film at a nice pace. The opening scene is pretty
funny and nicely done. The middle is also pretty good yet a little dull
while the ending is just plain disappointing. I was expecting a nice
payoff but the ending was so simple. This didn't ruin the movie but it
doesn't warrant a viewing either.

The acting is pretty good and there are a few characters that keep the
film interesting. Pierce Brosnan stars as Max and he gives a good
performance. He sometimes looked a little tired but he usually seemed
to be having fun. Woody Harrelson is great as the FBI agent and he
looks to be having a great time. Salma Hayek offers great eye candy and
a decent performance. She doesn't really do anything special except
look very beautiful. Don Cheadle gives an okay performance though he
doesn't get a lot of screen time.

There are a few reasons why After the Sunset would make for a good
rental. First, the scenery looks great and eye candy never hurts.
Second, the chemistry between Brosnan and Harrelson is surprisingly
good and it is fun to watch them on screen. Third, those looking for
some escapist fun should find it with this film. Last but not least,
Salma Hayek looks amazing. I would have preferred a little more
substance but the movie proved to be entertaining. In the end, After
the Sunset isn't worth checking out in theaters but it could make for a
decent rental. Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
"After the sunset" is surely not a demanding film...and none of us
expected to be one. Take Pierce Brosnan - a great showman and a guy
with asense of humor, add sexy as she's ever been Salma Hayek, add
Woody Harrelson in good form, top it off with decent screenplay that
does not take itself too seriously or risk falling into pretentious or
shallow territory and you have yourself a very entertaining little
piece of movie-making. There's not much to discuss about After the
sunset. It has a lot of funny moments, at times it's silly and
implausible but you don't really have time to think about that. It's
without doubt not the best movie Pierce, Salma or Woody have made, but
it's far from the worst either. If you're looking for an hour and a
half of casual entertainment with solid performances, script and
directing go see it...you'll feel pretty good after you do :)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a pleasant shock, because it wasn't typical high octane
adrenaline-pumping Pierce Brosnan action flick of recent memory! The
action was more subdued and less far-fetched as a typical Brosnan
movie. I laughed my butt off in parts, and the cast pulled off their
roles in a badass-yet-comical way!

Salma Hayek adds some necessary female steam in this otherwise
masculine tale! As always Pierce Brosnan delivers a wonderful
performance helping to make this movie a real delight! 

I can't tell you much more about the movie without spoiling scenes, so,
see this movie; it's worth the whatever price you pay.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a somewhat entertaining cat and mouse thriller with Brosnan,
Hayek and Harrelson at the top of their game. The film starts out
promisingly enough with a diamond heist which is more slapstick than
suspenseful. 

After the heist Harrelson follows the pair to an island where he
believes they plan another big job. As the two male characters get more
closely acquainted throughout the film we start to wonder who's
tricking who. 

Brosnan displays rare emotion in this film. Harrelson escapes his
Cheers role by excellently portraying the many sides of what would have
been a simple character.Hayek doesn't miss a chance to show off her
body, and Don Cheadle's villain was superb. The only problem with that
character was that we didn't see enough of him.

The film has some nice scenery and entertaining scenes, particularly
the shark capture.Rush hour director Ratner has made a great film,
which only really lacks style and good pacing. this film would have
been better handled in the reins of, say, Steven Soderbergh.

But nonetheless, a very funny enjoyable film which will please fans of
the cast and crew, as well as the movie-going public. It's not up to
the standard of Oceans's eleven yet it beats the likes of Ocean's 12.
Any fan of the comedy/thriller genre should go see this film, but I
will be looking more forward to Rush Hour 3.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie gets high marks for five things and low marks for three, so
overall it's a keeper.

THE GOOD - (1) A very colorful film, with wonderful bright colors from
the Bahamas scenery; (2) an interesting story right from the get-go;
(3) originality in the story; and (4) yes, to be honest, Hayak's
figure, which is seen in abundance throughout the film. She knows it's
good and isn't shy about showing it, and (5) overall a good mixture of
crime, comedy, romance and suspense and just right amount of time at
just under 100 minutes.

THE BAD - (1) Insulting gratuitous sex and really stupid sexual dialog
at times; (2) once again subversive Hollywood making the FBI character
a moron, for the most part; (3) some Rambo mentality (bad guys miss
from close range, good guys never miss, etc.).

It's an outlandish story but don't analyze it for credibility or you'd
be turned off and quit after 10 minutes. Just go along for the ride and
enjoy the entertainment....and entertaining it is!
<|_=00=_|>
After the Sunset sees Pierce Brosnan play an ex-jewel thief in a simple
"will the old pro come out of retirement for one last job" movie that
is far more entertaining than its unoriginal premise sounds.

Pierce Brosnan takes to his dressed-down James Bond role very well, and
the jokes and his style make him a very likable character. Woody
Harrelson, the rival FBI agent, puts in a similarly enjoyable
performance, and his inept bumblings around the island create some
unexpected comic situations between the cop and the thief. It's the
relationship between these two (and the compromising situations they
find themselves in) that makes the film, as they antagonize each other
and almost become buddies toward the end. Their encounters add
something fresh and unexpected to the movie's simple formula and make
it really entertaining.

Oh, and special mentions have to go out for Don Cheadle and Salma
Hayek. Don's character is very funny, and he plays both sides of it
well, and as for Salma...let's just say the directors are aware of what
their male audience wants to see.

All in all, it's funny, quick, easy to follow, and contains enough
little quirks to make After the Sunset an enjoyable and entertaining
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
The Seven Seas Navigator is docking in Paradise Island in the Bahamas
for a solid weekThey're having a nice promotion for the maiden voyage,
calling it the Diamond Cruise: a gem exhibit whose star attraction is
the third Napoleon Diamond It's, allegedly, the only priceless
remaining 'cute little rock' Max Burdett and Lola Cirillo haven't
stolen 

The unlocking Special Agent Stan Lloyd of the FBI (Woody Harrelson)
suspects that the two are planning to purloin it But how could they
with six cameras plus 24-hour rotating guards, unbreakable
polycarbonate display? 

Max (Pierce Brosnan) knows he can easily clip Napoleon III and make
Lloyd look like a jerk again For him, it's more about the challenge
and the alibithat's his work of art But he affirms that the two are a
couple of retirees trying to enjoy the island life 

The gorgeous Lola (Salma Hayek) knows that, with Max, they went out at
the top of their game, undefeated They were great together But, now,
she feels it is the best time to quit For her, now, the challenge is
to find joy in simple things, as a life filled with sunsets 

Lloyd was chasing Max for seven yearsever since the first Napoleon
Diamond went missing That day, he got to the scene, and took a few
shots at the getaway car Next day, a bottle of champagne arrives at
FBI Headquarters with a note saying, "Aim for the tires next time." 

In the island, Lloyd teams up with the beautiful Sophie (Naomie Harris)
a local intriguing cop who requires a big arrest 

On the scene also appears Henri Mooré (Don Cheadle)the biggest
gangster on the islandwho affirms to Max that the impoverished people
of the island need his help, and that a cash injection in tens of
millions of dollars would relieve the entire Caribbean So, he suggests
to Max a partnership He would give him what he doesn't have: access to
the marina, the crews, rotation schedules, whatever he needs 

With picturesque sunsets, this colorful caper comedy has plenty of
beauty, fun and humor
<|_=00=_|>
A movie with the great Pierce Brosnan can't go wrong really, everything
he does, he makes look effortlessly cool.

The story about the diamond heist though, seems secondary to the
beautiful locations, and Brett Ratner's obcession with filming Miss
Hayek's chest from all conceivable angles (not necessarily a bad
thing). Although Hayek is SO botoxed that she can barely move her
facial muscles to express any kind of emotion.

Woody Harrelson and Brosnan make a really funny team, and if they make
a sequel, I hope it concentrates on their two characters, because they
have a great screen chemistry.
<|_=00=_|>
Someone commenting in these pages put it better when he said that we
could rehash this film, analyze it, and make it into what it was not
intended to be, but the fact remains that if we had a pleasant time
while we were watching, it was well worth the price of admission.

Director Brett Ratner seems to be having great fun directing the movie.
He was lucky to get the genius of Dante Spinetti's cinematography to
create a movie that is entertaining with great locations. It's a good
excuse, as any, to spend time in the theater. While Mr. Ratner is not
breaking new ground in this genre, he makes "After the Sunset" fun to
watch.

Pierce Brosnan is his usually suave self. His take on Max is to play it
with an economy of gestures, as though he is bored by being told what
to do. Salma Hayek, on the other hand, adds a beautiful presence to the
proceedings without being too obvious. Woody Harrelson is a goofy FBI
agent. Heaven help us if they ever are this dumb! Don Cheadle doesn't
have much to do, as his character looks as though he was an after
thought.

Just pretend you are on vacation in the Bahamas. Nassau never looked
this good before!
<|_=00=_|>
Max Burdett (Pierce Brosnan) is a master jewel thief who has been
credited with stealing two of the three Napoleon diamonds. He has now
retired to the Bahamas, with his accomplice and lover Lola (Salma
Hayek). Years earlier, Max made an enemy when he stole the second
diamond from Stan Lloyd (Woody Harrelson), an FBI agent who was
delivering the diamond to the museum. Stan was humiliated by the thief,
and wants to put Max behind bars.

Stan believes that Max wants to steal the last remaining diamond,
before he really retires. The third Napoleon diamond is going to be
displayed aboard a cruise ship heading for the Bahamas. This may be
Stan's last chance to catch Max stealing the jewel. Stan joins forces
with Sophie (Naomie Harris), an island police detective, to help in
catching Max. I enjoyed the movie, and it will keep your attention to
the end. Of course, Max performed some 007 type scenes in the movie
while stealing the jewels. There is somewhat of a surprise ending. (New
Line Cinema, Run time 1:40, Rated PG-13) (8/10)
