
I can only hope this movie wakes some people up, especially those flag
waving people who keep on repeating slogans like "greatest country in
the world" etc. This could be a serious wake up call for a proud
nation. I have always wondered how people can still call it the
greatest country if it does not have universal health care, but maybe
the reason is, they don't know any better. They do not realize that in
other western countries this has been done for ages and it works.

People of USA should embrace Moore as the patriot he is. He wants the
American PEOPLE all the best, but he gets sacrificed by the same people
because he dares to speak about the government. But true patriots rise
against governments too, if they are bad for the people. United states
is not the flag, not the white house, not the senate, not the soaring
eagle. It is the people living there, and this is what they have to
remember. You can demand for universal health care, and you can vote
for it.
<|_=00=_|>
As an American this movie was one of the most depressing movies I've
seen in awhile. Bowling for Columbine doesn't even hold a candle to the
disheartening realizations contained in this film. I walked away with a
sick taste in my mouth having been reminded of how disgusting and
heartless our bottom line policy making is. How sick it is to be
imprisoned by the government through healthcare. How the healthcare
system will tear down every other joy in your life until your 80,
working 50 hours a week to pay the cost of staying alive, unable to
stand against the rich or have the hope left to vote. Thus the
propaganda arm of the American Dream prevails. I don't plan to watch
this movie again until I obtain citizenship in Britain, France, CubaÂ…
or Ron Paul could get elected president and as a former physician he
might actually fix the system.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got done watching this movie and no other movie I have seen in
my life has had the impact on me that this movie has had.

My wife has M.S. and requires a LOT of medical treatment. Just ONE of
her many prescriptions is a thousand (US) dollars a month. This very
expensive experimental drug is nothing more than an old flu shot they
are experimenting with. ( seriously ) 

I am a middle class skilled worker with great insurance.. and I may
soon be homeless due in part to this. The other part is due to the
corrupt banking system that I hope one day gets equally exposed.

I am now officially embarrassed to be a US citizen. If it wasn't for me
already being middle aged and having 15 years seniority in a job I
cannot replace... I would forever leave this so called "Free Country" 

Peace Rich

rich3077@gmail.com
<|_=00=_|>
"Sicko" Diagnoses a Cure for the Nation 

Perhaps the exponents of expediency just haven't met the rescue heroes
of September 11 still plagued by debilitating respiratory illnesses,
but unable to get the healthcare they need in the country they
volunteered to help in our hour of despair. 

Or the machinist and his newspaper editor wife who had to sell their
home and move into a cramped room in their daughter's house when his
heart attacks and her cancer caused their medical bills to soar. 

Or the woman whose husband died after their insurer refused to
authorize a bone marrow transplant from his younger brother because it
was "experimental." 

They are among the stars of Michael Moore's riveting new film "Sicko,"
that we were privileged to be among 50 people in an intimate private
screening in New York a few days before the premiere in Cannes Saturday
night where it was the hottest ticket in town and greeted with
well-deserved rave reviews. 

Many of those in the New York audience, the real life stars of "Sicko,"
were brought to tears by a film and filmmaker who viewed their lives
with a lot more humanity than the insurance companies who had treated
them with such calculated disregard.

The people, who, as one industry whistleblower says in the film, didn't
just "fall through the cracks." They were deliberately thrown
overboard. 

Cast aside by the same insurance giants that far too many ostensible
reformers think we should reward for their greed by funneling them
hundreds of millions dollars more. 

"Sicko" is not just an indictment of an indefensible healthcare
industry in the U.S. It's a rejoinder for those who think we can fix
the soulless monster by tinkering with an unconscionable system that
puts us further in thrall to those who created the crisis.

Following the screening, Moore put it as simply as possible: the
private insurance companies "have to go." 

Unlike too many of our friends in the progressive community, Moore did
not go for the easy way out. 

There are no calls here for forcing individuals to buy unaffordable,
junk insurance. Or handing over ever more tax dollars to those who
profit by denying care, and whose biggest accomplishment, says Moore,
"is buying our U.S. Congress" to protect their wealth and stranglehold
over our health.

There are no cynical ad homonyms to not let "the perfect be the enemy
of the good" - the last refuge of the politicians desperate to convince
us, and perhaps themselves as well, that the Faustian compromises they
propose will all be OK. Tell it to the worker in "Sicko" who had to
choose between restoring one severed finger for $60,000 or another for
$12,000. 

No, Moore doesn't feel he has to temporize with people's lives or
accede to those whose goal, he says, is to "frighten and demoralize"
people so they are unable to fight. 

Moore doesn't think the problem is "too much" medical care, or people
who want to over utilize the system by spending hours waiting in an
Emergency Room. Among the rare gems here is one of Richard Nixon's
taped conversations, in the Oval Office with John Ehrlichman on the eve
of Nixon's 1971 law promoting managed care. You can rest assured,
Ehrlichman promises Nixon, "all the incentives are towards less medical
care." 

"Sicko" has no trouble finding a solution. It can be found in the rest
of the world. There's no hand wringing here for the ideologues who are
already attacking Moore for promoting the alternative- medical systems
he visits to Canada, England, France, and even Cuba, countries, says
Moore, where when it comes to the nation's health, they know the
distinction between the "we" and the "me.". 

Here's what Moore found. Care "doesn't depend on your premiums, it
depends on your needs," the film reports. You don't have to check your
health security at the door, or mortgage your future when at your most
sick and vulnerable.

Moore's not even afraid of the inevitable complaints about "socialized"
medicine. "Back home in America we're socializing lots of things,"
"Sicko" finds, among them our fire and police service, Social Security
checks, and even the library. 

At a time when the apologists of accommodation are promoting the lowest
common denominator, Moore most of all offers a vision and hope. 

"Not all of us have a kid in Iraq, but all of us have been to see a
doctor, or paid for a prescription, or have elderly parents," he said
after the screening. To put it another way, there's no free marketers
in hospital beds, just patients. 

The health care crisis "will bring us together," says Moore. And, I'd
add, "Sicko" will help us get there.

see www.CalNurses.org for more!
<|_=00=_|>
Please, cast aside your prejudices and watch this film with an open
mind. I personally do not like Michael Moore whatsoever, but this film
is mind blowing. I hope that that including quotes from the movie is
not considered spoiling it.

Feb 17th, 1971 5:23 P.M.

Ehrlichman : "We have now narrowed down the vice president's problems
on this thing to one issue, and that is whether we should include these
Health Maintenance Organizations like Edgar Kaiser's Permenente thing."
President Nixon : "Let me ask you, you know I'm not too keen on any of
these damn medical programs." Ehrlichman : " This is a private
enterprise one." Nixon : "Well, that appeals to me." Ehrlichman : "
Edgar Kaiser is running this permanente thing for profit. And the
reason he can do it... I had Edgar Kaiser come in, and talk to me about
this... And I went into some depth... All the incentives are toward
less medical care, because the less care they give them, the more money
they make." Nixon : "Fine." Ehrlichman : " And the incentives run the
right way." Nixon : "Not bad."
<|_=00=_|>
As European living temporary in this country (my wife is American), I
would like to give my point of view about the movie:

1) The facts that Michael Moore show about European Health System is
true. We don't pay bills for medical procedures.

2) Universal Health Care it doesn't mean "socialist" health care like
Cuba. Rich and middle-high class can go to the private system, so we
have both to choice, but it's normal that if you have to afford a
expensive medical bill (how can afford a 250k medical bill?), even rich
people go to the public system.

3) As European living in United States, I can say Americans pay more
taxes (direct and indirect), than Europeans, it's absolutely false that
UHC will double the taxes of Americans.

4) This is not a issue about conservatives or liberals, this is simple
a humanity question.

5) The Cuban woman made the right question: if a poor caribean island
like Cuba can give Universal health care to their citizens, how the
first economical potence can afford this? 6)One of the typical points
to critic this movie is about wait lines to have medical attention in
countries with UHC. The statistics are very clear: there are no more
wait lines in this countries than in USA, even covering 100 % of the
people (if you are a little bit intelligent and not a fanatic
extremist, you can understand that if you exclude 50 milion person from
medical attention, your rates about this issue can be better).

7) This people that support the actual health care, I think they don't
understood one of the principal messages of this movie: it doesn't
matter if you have a good insuarance...you can be exclude for
"bussiness" reasons. HORRIBLE AND INSANE.

8) Every American had to recommend this movie to their neighbour, and
associate (like in other times for other issues like segregation laws
or vote for women), because affordable health care is BASIC HUMAN
RIGHT, forbidden in the the richest country in the world.

9) A lot of Americans are proud to be good Christians...I'm not sure
Jesus and God support a system that treat human being as garbage. This
post is specially dedicated for people that love America and the
tradition (conservatives), because if they accept taxes for pay
national security, inside this security can include this silent and big
enemies that are always waiting to kill American people (cancer,
strokes...). Don't worry, you can be conservative and patritotic and
support a human and Christian system that support the poor and normal
people. This not socialist, is capitalism with human face (normal in
other advanced societies where they live more and better).
<|_=00=_|>
After watching this film, i grew restless. Not the sorta restless, you
get, when nobody calls you on the phone for weeks. No- restless that i
can not reach out, and share parts of the health-care-system, from
where i come from in Denmark. Now, i've only once experienced this sort
of restlessness after watching a movie, and it was Michael Moores
"Rodger and me". YES- Moore does it again. And he fulfills his role, as
an rebellious anti-capitalist, pointing out the wrongs and rights in
society, that people have simply grown accustom to. PERFECT! He once
again gives us his artistic brand consisting of small terrific, or in
this case, horrible stories from everyday people who have been
neglected by the American health-care system. Michael Let's you pass
trough the homes of MANY families as you engage upon their stories.
This time Michael has brought far more people into the interviews, and
it gives the hole bundle more juice then FAHRENHEIT. He also, takes his
time to show old clips, video/photos of the people hes interviewing, so
you feel you get the entire background on some of the folks. BRAVO!
Michael himself, is this time a bit more "americaniced" -but only to
really point out the benefits of the other countries, does he take the
role of the average American joe. PERFECT! Over all. If you read this.
I think this movie will make as huge an impact on you, as it did on me.
And i think every Michael Moore film, is both educational and should be
thought in schools, as well as very important for the entire society to
see! That is... if you want to be a part of your society?
<|_=00=_|>
I recently finished watching Michael Moore's Sicko (it's a great
documentary that everyone should see). It's not about the 47 million
Americans who don't have health insurance, it's about some of the 250
million who have/had health insurance and in spite of this their lives
were ruined. It dispels a lot of the myths espoused by some in America
such as long waiting lines, higher taxes and the doctors being paid
close to nothing. It explains why HMOs were established and how their
primary purpose is to deny claims. Advancement in these companies is
based upon how many claims an employee denies and any claims that are
actually paid out are seen as failures. He goes to countries like
Canada, England, France and Cuba and talks to citizens of these
countries to get their take on their country's health-care system. He
also goes to hospitals and emergency rooms in these countries to get
the take of the people there and when he ask "How much do you pay?",
they all laugh at him. Moore sums up the premise of film when he says
the rest of the western world practices "We" health-care while
Americans practice "Me" health-care.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read all the comments and reviews, this movie was pretty much
what I expected. Moore does a really good job in making his point.

What bothered me a little was his black & white view of the healthcare
industry - either it is public OR private. In reality, many western
countries have a "hybrid" system. For example here in Finland we have a
pretty reasonable public healthcare system (which by the way is not
totally free for the patient, albeit very cheap), but in addition, we
also have private clinics, if you want even faster service and are
willing to pay extra. You can also get an insurance from private
companies, which provides extra financial support and/or service in the
private clinics in case of illness. Also some workplaces and institutes
have free doctors.

A portion of the cost of medicines is substituted by the government in
either case, and there is an annual limit after which they are totally
substituted.

I think it would be pretty straightforward to establish this kind of
system in the US. There is no need to socialize healthcare TOTALLY.
There is no need for the insurance company to "go" (as Moore put it),
they just need to step aside a little and stop being the main
authority. Also, if insurance companies have to compete with FREE
(health care), there is only one thing they can do: offer really good
service!
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant documentary, with a softer, less angry Moore taking a good
hard look at the current state of the inner-workings of the American
private health care system, and comparing them to the universal systems
in Canada, England, and France. The nay-sayers will argue that he's
skewing his content, or simply choosing the worst HMO stories, but
that's exactly what he has to do to drive his point home! The content
here is far less controversial than in his previous films. It's widely
known that, despite being one of the richest countries in the world,
the states is far from best when it comes to taking care of their own.

The film gives the impression that Canadians wait an average of
45minutes to get seen at a hospital. Being a Canadian, I'll tell you
right away that is not the case. There is an issue here in Canada with
long wait times (both at the hospital and for major surgery), however,
the system still works well, and everyone is taken care of, regardless
of financial or social status.

Seeing sicko really made me realize just how much I take our universal
health care system for granted. Some of the HMO horror stories Moore
gives are shocking (to put it lightly).

While this film doesn't pack quite the punch, compared to Fahrenheit
and Columbine, it's still going to turn a lot of heads. Everyone should
see this movie.
