
I had my doubts. I knew that Pixar would fail this time around. No way
were they going to pull this off for a seventh time.

I was very, very wrong.

I went to see a special screening of "Cars" a few weeks ago, and this
movie blew me away. The animation is gorgeous, the story brings a smile
to your face, and you can't help falling in love with all of the
colorful characters. It definitely has that genuine Pixar "heart" that
you rarely see in any other CGI film. At first I thought the movie
would be centered around a lot of NASCAR-like racing, but it really
wasn't, much to my surprise (and pleasure). This movie is definite
Pixar gold. I absolutely loved it.

Although I don't want to give any spoilers away, I will say that my
favorite scene would have to be when Mater drags McQueen out to do a
bit of "Tractor Tipping". The whole theater was filled with laughter.
Heck, it even got some laughs out of me, which is rare when it comes to
a kid's movie.

Be there on opening night. This is movie is worth all of your time and
money.
<|_=00=_|>
But WHY is it great?

1. Visually. From the very first moments of the film, my mouth was
hanging open. I mean, what the hell? Nothing looks this good. I have no
idea how they made the cars look so much like real cars, and STILL make
them look so much like characters. And the settings? Having grown up
and traveled all over the South West United States (including more than
one pilgrimage down Route 66) They captured, not only the visuals, but
the atmosphere and character America's Main Street Perfectly. Frankly,
if you put real actors in many of the scenes, you wouldn't realize it
was computer generated you know, if the landscape wasn't made up of
old car parts.

2. Creativity. Talking animals. Every cartoon HAS to have talking
animals. Only so many cartoons can be about talking animals trying to
bamboozle around with humans. Thank goodness for Cars. They create an
entirely believable world populated by machines, with tractor cows, and
somehow they still have George Jones and Hendrix. The story IS quite
predictable, but it's still quite creative. With this level of creative
juice flowing in one of John's babies, I can't wait to see what he has
in store for further feature animation and theme parks.

3. Characters. I have a beef with Hollywood. They have no idea what
life in a small town is like. They either try and stuff their ideals
and attitude into a western shirt, or else fill America's heartland
with dolts, "we don't like outsiders" sheriffs, or crazed murderers.
Thankfully, Pixar did their homework and featured small town folk as
they really are: eclectic, eccentric, loyal, creative with their fun,
friendly with visitors, and really worth while. The subtle touches,
such as the lovable rivalry between the Hippie van and the Army truck,
or the crazy old Model T talking to the memorial of her dead husband
(very touching), gives a complex and wonderfully, realistically diverse
view off small town life. The same is true with the racing world.
Wilson and Newman are, of course, fantastic. It's funny how the gravel
in Newman's voice fits perfectly with the rumble of his engine,
likewise Wilson's distinct voice sounds just like the high-tuned growl
of a race car. Every voice is so paired. Bottom line, you leave loving
virtually every character in the movie.

4. Story. A little bit A Christmas Carol, a little bit The Sting. The
story starts out fast and exciting, like the race it portrayed. The big
second act meanders lazily from one fantastic story point to the next,
just like Route 66 drives from one landmark to another. I can see why
some may say it can get slow, but, as is one of the points of the
story, the joy is in the ride. And again, the third act flows quickly
and furiously like, well, another race.

I give it a score of 10 out of 10. I can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
"Cars didn't ride on it to make great time; they rode on it to have a
great time." 

It's not hard to make a successful movie. It's simple, really. Exceed
my expectations. Make me feel. Force me to care. Deliver a somewhat
clichéd message, but deliver it in such a way that the meaning
resounds. Teach me the same lessons that your characters learn. And
above all, entertain.

Pretty easy, right? Well, at least Pixar makes it look that way because
with Cars they have once again succeeded.

I'll be honest; I had my doubts about the movie. How would they be able
to take a story featuring nothing but vehicles, with nary a human in
sight, and keep my interest for a full two hours? Animals are one
thing, but could Pixar successfully master the personification of modes
of transportation? 

Yes, they could, and they did.

Thanks to Director Lasseter's strong attention to detail, going so far
as to insist that the vehicles bend and gesture in ways that were true
to their construction, every car and truck truly becomes a unique
character and personality. And along with those characters and
personalities comes a story which yes, contains a well-traveled theme,
but it comes with so much charm that even Grouchy McKilljoy's hard
little heart can't help but be warmed.

Don't worry if you're not a racing fan; I assure you it's not a
requirement to enjoy the movie. I love watching muscle cars race the
quarter mile (ask me about my '69 Camaro), but NASCAR doesn't do it for
me. That's another aspect about the film that gave me pause. I once
fell asleep at a NASCAR qualifying race, despite the 90-degree heat and
ear-splitting decibel levels, so would Cars keep me awake and
interested? Within five minutes my worries began to slowly subside as I
happily settled in for the ride.

Animation should be about bringing imagination to life. Give us
something that can't be done in live action. Cars does this so
effectively that it almost seems a redundancy to comment on how Pixar
continues to raise the CGI bar. The scenery on screen is awe-inducing
to the point that it's getting harder to distinguish the real from the
created. The filmmakers have gone so far as to perfect reflections in
the cars and to pay careful attention to weeds growing out of cracks in
the sidewalk. I don't see any way you could not be visually stunned.

But impressive visuals are little comfort if I'm not presented with a
story that I care to follow. No problems there. If you're the kind of
person who loves to go "awwwww" at movies then prepare to be satisfied.
What I appreciate the most is that, at the risk of causing some
youngsters to become restless, time and attention has been given to
character and story development. Lasseter and his team stood their
ground and resisted any pressure to trim this to a runtime more
suitable to those with limited attention spans, and I thank them for
it.

As I said earlier, Cars hit the starting line with a disadvantage. I
didn't greet it with a warm smile. I crossed my arms, furrowed my brow,
and dared it to prove my preconceived notions wrong.

It proceeded to exceed my expectations. It made me feel for its
characters and forced me to care about McQueen's journey, both to
California and to a different viewpoint on life. Sure, the "slow down
and enjoy the scenery" message may seem a little routine, but it's a
message I took to heart.

Immediately following the movie I was on the Internet looking up
information regarding Route 66. I'm now ready for a road trip void of
interstates and efforts to beat my best time. I feel like slowing down
a bit and exploring the unknown. Give me the scenic route, and give me
more finely-tuned, detailed movies like Cars. That's all I ask. Two
hours of entertainment that make me care, even if briefly, about
something other than myself and what goal has to be accomplished next.

See? It was simple, really. At least Pixar made it look that way.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on May 31st, 2006 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival's Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

The most famous streak in sports is probably Joe DiMaggio's 56 game
hitting streak. The most famous hit streak in film entertainment is
probably Pixar's feature film animation streak. With "Cars", it's seven
in row for outstanding storytelling that is well executed and is (or
will be) rewarded with blockbuster box office grosses. "Toy Story",
"Toy Story 2", "Monsters, Inc.", "Finding Nemo", "The Incredibles", and
"A Bug's Life" are the other six gems.

The story is about Lightning McQueen a rookie NASCAR-type racer. Of
course, he is a car and not a human; or, he is a human in the form of
the car. Take your pick. Either way, he is not an attractive persona.
He is selfish, unappreciative, greedy, two-faced and has no real
friends. But, he is a great driver and is tied for The Piston (read
Winston) Cup annual championship with two other drivers. On the way to
the runoff race in California, he accidentally gets off in a sleepy and
forgotten town on Route 66 named Radiator Springs.

In this hillbilly hell of a town, he is punished for speeding and
tearing up the road by the sheriff. As he serves his sentence with
community work, he discovers the town is inhabited by rejects and
misfits, who all have hearts of gold. Can they change Lightning and
make him over to have positive traits like honesty, integrity, respect,
honor, sacrifice, humility, and compassion? That's the drama that
unfolds. Lightning is a hard case, and the outcome is always in doubt.

The cars/people are incredible. Shortly into the movie you forget that
the people are cars or the cars are people, you suspend disbelief, and
you just begin to watch an engaging story about real people. The
windshields are their eyes, and the grilles are their mouths, and they
display emotions as well as any human actor. The story is serious and
light-hearted at the same time. The puns are too numerous to catch. And
this is a must-see-twice-to-get-it-all movie.

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the story looked very lame from previews, and the concept
didn't appeal to me. But when I saw an early screening I was surprised,
it was well written and well executed. They didn't overload the movie
with automotive jokes, which I think would have hurt the story and
character development. Owen Wilson's voice is great for his role.
Overall, it's on par with other Pixar films, even if it may not be
their best so far. The animation is superb, definitely the best they've
done. Giving something like cars distinct personality and
characterization seems like it would be pretty tough, and they do a
great job with it. See this movie the day it opens.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the premier of "Cars" last night at the Lowe's Motor Speedway
in Concorde and was delighted to find that the hours of traffic were
worth it. 

The story has a clear point and the message of friendship is easily
understood by kids and adults alike. The variety of humor suits all
generations, too, making this the first "summer must see" for the
family.

Being an artist I was struck by the vibrancy of the animation. The
colors were rich and beautiful, and there was such diverse vocal talent
that the entire experience made it a treat for the crowd's eyes and
ears. I've never been to a movie with more than a few hundred people in
the theater, but let me assure you that all 30,000+ attendees at the
Speedway last night applauded during the credits and for some very,
very good reasons.
<|_=00=_|>
As usual, you've gotta hand it to Pixar.

In "Cars," their latest film, they show why they are still the cream of
the crop when it comes to the field they revolutionized more than a
decade ago. Well, yeah, it doesn't have the sophistication and
cleverness of "The Incredibles," nor the universal appeal of both "Toy
Stories" and "Finding Nemo." And I have to admit that the idea of
animated cars was the least riveting as far as Pixar film premises are
concerned. But as with its predecessors, beneath those excellently
rendered 3D images is the soul that sets Pixar apart from what has
become of most animated films nowadays.

Up-and-coming rookie race car Lightning McQueen (voiced by Owen
Wilson), is about to win the prestigious Piston Cup. The championship
ends with Lightning finishing in a tie with legendary "The King"
(Richard Petty), who is in his final race, and Chick Hicks (Michael
Keaton); thus, a tie-breaking race is set in California.

But a road mishap leads Lightning to the forgotten town of Radiator
Springs, a part of what was once Route 66, a place that once basked in
glory, but has since been thrust into oblivion. There he meets an array
of other cars - including Doc Hudson (Paul Newman!), Mater (Larry the
Cable Guy), and Sally (Bonnie Hunt) - who teach him that "life isn't
about the destination but about the journey." 

First of all, Pixar's animation is first-rate. It's that sort of
greatness among their artists I can only geek about and dream of
grasping while in my 3D animation classes. The cars have a definite
realistic look, especially with the rendering (man, the reflections!).
The film is also vibrantly colored, making use of a whole variety of
shades of dark colors during the race, and warm ones whenever the
scenes shift to Radiator Springs. Even the old, vintage car models have
that chic look that brings some of the essential charm of this film.
There are lots to be admired on this film just for the brilliance in
animation. But among those that stand out are the race itself, and when
Doc Hudson gets to bring back his good old days. Somehow, it's like
watching NASCAR on IMAX again, albeit minus the über-big screen and the
3-D effect.

But what's really nice about this film is how director John Lasseter
and the writers effectively tell the story and how they pump up the
visual feast with humor and sincere emotions. It still all boils down
to the story and how it is told - the very essence of cinema. Granted,
when it comes to the standards set by previous Pixar films, it isn't
quite up there with it's predecessors; but considering how lofty the
bar has reached and the mediocrity that has become of the genre in
general, "Cars" more than gets the job done.

As for the voice cast, Wilson brings that sort of cockiness to the
protagonist of the story and it fits with his smug humor. Larry the
Cable Guy gives Mater an amusingly disoriented state without being
irritatingly so. You can't help but care about him and arguably, he's
the nicest member of the cast. Newman lends an authoritative quality to
Doc Hudson. (During the end credits, there's an in-joke about John
Ratzenberger, who has his voice featured in all Pixar films thus far.)
However, ultimately, the cast is somewhat unmemorable and lacking in
diversity. The rest of the voice talents are also underused. Keaton's
Chick Hicks is a formulaic one-dimensional villain, which could have
utilized his voice more with a little more motivation for the car's
part. But then again, that may be beside the movie's point.

All in all, "Cars" is a visual feast outside and an effective
storytelling inside. When it comes to the basis of their appeal, it
doesn't keep up with the rest of Pixar films which have sped up far
ahead and this may yet be their first underachiever. But for what it is
and what it achieves, it's a nice ride.
<|_=00=_|>
Without giving away any of the story, here's my take. I attended the
premiere of CARS at LMS on Friday, May 26. True to Disney form, the
premiere itself was spectacular. Four giant screens, live
entertainment,lots of fireworks, great inclusion of military personnel,
and as good of a red carpet as you can do with chain link fenced
areas... This movie rates right in the middle of Pixar releases for me.
I place it above Monsters Inc, A Bug's Life and Toy Story 2, but not as
good as the "original", the best ever, Toy Story, and The Incredibles.
Everything just looks so real in this movie. The dust stirred up when
Lightning drives off, the scenery around Route 66 (well, maybe not
those mountains that look like the fins of old cars). Even the shine on
the clean cars looks so real. As an adult, I enjoyed the story line. I
can't tell you how the kids would like it, as by the time the movie
finally started, my kids were asleep. As always, don't leave your seat
until all of the credits roll. Sometimes they are some of the funniest
clips in the movie! You'll love them this time, as they tie back to
prior Pixar movies, in a car sort of way. This is definitely a movie
we'll add to the DVD collection. I really hope this movie does well
since it's the first release since Disney bought Pixar. Don't go in
looking for the action or adult humor of The Incredibles. If you do
you'll be disappointed. Just go in looking for the "Disney always has a
good moral behind its animated movies" type of movie and you will
really enjoy it. Paul Newman and Larry the Cable Guy really have the
best characters in the movie. And while John Ratzenberger's character
doesn't have a lot of screen time, I really enjoyed him! I'll be going
back to see it when it releases in theaters so I can get a better feel
for the sound, as it wasn't the best in an outdoor setting. In my
opinion, it easily beats the other animated movies released over the
past year or so.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to attend a premiere showing of this movie in North Carolina
and was amazed again at how much more a movie can be than just
"animation." This film focuses on a changed reality, a world where cars
are the only life form and so we must suspend our own reality to enjoy
this film. In the same flavor as the first Pixar films, we quickly
accept a world where everything is a motorized vehicle that lives and
acts like we do in our own world. The cars have experiences in life,
desires that drive (sorry for that) them, and misunderstandings that
are taken advantage of.

My wife and I loved this movie and plan to see it again when it is in
public release. I cherished all the nuances of the film and the
attention to detail not seen in animations from other companies.

For fans of all ages, this film is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Caught the world premiere at Lowe's Motor Speedway in Charlotte-- we're
not race fans ourselves by any means, but you really don't have to be
to get on the road with this one. We were privvy to a couple inside
jokes, living amongst the racing atmosphere that IS Charlotte, but even
if we hadn't gotten that extra little chuckle, there's definitely
plenty to find. Not just for kids. Kids will like the cute characters,
and bright colors, adults will like it simply because it's just plain
entertaining without having to dumb down to appeal to kids. You'll find
yourself wanting to find the next twisty backroad to get to your next
destination. Watch for all kids of cameo's, and it's too bad IMDb
doesn't include a picture of the animated character as well-- it's not
always easy to remember what the names are once you get home. Owen's
good, Newman is classic, if a little flat (I applaud him for just plain
staying active and leaving his house!), but it's really Larry the Cable
Guy's movie-- newfound appreciation for that one-- and "tow-mater" is a
multi-layered pun. Not only on the fact that he's a tow truck, but also
his "they call me tater salad" bit-- Overall, highly entertaining, just
try not to speed too much on the way home....
