
On paper, a "Halloween" remake looked interesting. Zombie tries to go
back to the character's origin and reinvent him - it's a recent trend
in Hollywood ("Batman Begins," "Casino Royale," the upcoming
"Incredible Hulk," etc.), so it's not quite surprising that Hollywood
greenlit the project and it got the push it received.

But the problem that arises while doing this with "Halloween" is that
it comes into conflict with the concept of Michael being purely evil.
Although I can understand what Zombie was trying to do by exploring
Michael's background, it contradicts the whole point of the original.
By providing a reason and displaying a human character on screen, you
give the character a soul - and despite what Zombie may claim, this
does NOT make Michael scarier. It makes him an average movie serial
killer: a guy with a messed up life as a kid who snaps one day and goes
on a killing rampage.

Is it scary? No. Gory? Yes. Realistic? At first. And if it were a movie
about a serial killer, it would work. But it's not. This is a movie
about a monster, a soulless creature; a boogeyman, as per the original
film. Monsters aren't scary when we know they're flesh and blood.

Carpenter had a way of framing the action in the original movie.
Michael stalks Laurie in her hometown, but we never see any real flesh
behind the mask, we never really see him moving around like a normal
human being. But we do here. He stands in the middle of an open road,
in front of three teenage girls walking home from school, and they all
see him. He stands there for a few moments, then trudges away
off-screen. We actually see him walk away, instead of just appearing
and disappearing as he did in the original film. Which method is
scarier? The answer is clear.

Zombie spends 40 minutes or so building up Michael's character before
he escapes from the ward. We see him killing animals as a child (and
torturing them, too), a stupid subplot with his mom as a stripper and a
typical school bully, and a promiscuous sister. The sexual talk is
frank and disgusting - the mom's boyfriend (husband?) is talking about
how cute her daughter's butt is, and at this point in the film we're
not sure whether he might even be the father. It's just shock for shock
value. Zombie has a tendency of this - blunt violence and blunt
dialogue combined - and in a film like this, it seems cheap and fake
and unnecessary. The heavy emphasis placed on the swearing - and I mean
this literally (as in, the actors place a noticeable emphasis on the
profanity they use) is almost unintentionally funny. Zombie cast his
wife in the role of Michael's mother, and she can't act at all.

Donald Pleasence got stuck with the most unfortunate lines from the
original film, but we were willing to forgive bad dialogue because of
how well-made the film was otherwise. Here, Malcolm McDowell gets the
worst of two worlds: he gets to handle an under-characterization with
bad, bad, BAD dialogue AND a generally weak film to boot. The sequences
with McDowell's version of Loomis are all completely clichéd - Zombie
clearly writes his dialogue based on other films' dialogue. The
"intimate" scenes at the mental ward between Loomis and Michael are
awful. McDowell struggles with typicalities of the genre, such as the
Dr. Who Wasted His Own Life By Devoting It To Someone Else's (he
explains to Michael that his wife left him and he has no friends
because of how involved he became with the case - and the dialogue
itself is straight from any cop-vs.-killer flick). The recent film
"Zodiac" had a similar theme of men losing their personal lives due to
obsession over a murderer, but it was handled better. The whole Loomis
character should have been dropped from the remake if all Zombie wanted
to do with him was use him as a deus ex machina, by the way.

Overall, this feels like a redneck version of "Halloween," which is
going to offend some people, but I can't think of any better way to
describe it. It's trashy, vulgar, and silly - and hey, that's fine, if
that's Rob Zombie's motif and he wants to make movies pandering towards
that sort of audience. I have nothing against it, and I think it may
work with some films - I can imagine him making a good re-do of
"Natural Born Killers" (although I hope it never, never happens!).

However, when you're remaking an iconic, legendary, incredibly
influential horror film - don't cheapen it by "reimagining" it with
horror movie clichés and shock-value material. The very worst aspect of
this remake is that it simply isn't scary at all - it's a typical
slasher flick, a homicidal-man-on-a-rampage flick, which ironically is
exactly what Zombie said he wanted to avoid.

The first film was eerie, spooky, and unnerving because Michael's
motivations were cloudy and we weren't sure whether Laurie was right or
wrong when she said he was the boogeyman. We only knew one thing: he
wasn't entirely human.

But ever since that original movie, the filmmakers have attempted to
keep expanding upon Michael's history: the second film developed a
motivation for his killings (Laurie was his sister), the fourth offered
more clues at his background, and now we come full circle with a
complete remake of the original film.

Michael's true demonic core - the natural horror element of the series
- is stripped bare and all that is left is a disturbed, abnormally tall
redneck with greasy hair who hasn't showered in years wearing a silly
mask going around killing people because he had an abusive family life
as a child. Some things are better left unexplored.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, now my problem with Halloween(2007) is this is a film that DID NOT
need to be remade. Halloween('70's) was absolutely perfect in every
aspect, in my opinion, it's the scariest movie of all time. But when I
heard that Rob Zombie was on to direct this movie, I actually thought
for a minute there was a possibility this may be a good remake. I saw
it this morning at the theater, I am in absolute disgust. Just it's not
like he just re-made the movie into his own idea, no, he took some of
John Carpenter's excellent ideas and just made them into crap. Now I'm
separating this from the original, Halloween(2007) was actually by
itself a bad film. Which really disappointed me since The Devil's
Rejects was done so well, this was just a typical stupid unoriginal
slasher movie. Now, Rob had a good idea where he developed Michael's
character in the beginning, where we had a better idea on why he became
Michael Myers. But after that, everything went downhill, because Rob
just rushed all the other IMPORTANT characters, so they got no
development what-so-ever.

Mike Myers is a tormented kid, his mom is a stripper, his step dad is
an alcoholic jerk, his big sister treats him bad, and he is picked on
at school. But he kills small animals as well, leading him to go onto
bigger things, like humans. He massacres his family, excluding his mom
and his baby sister, he is taken to a mental institution and escapes 15
years later and is going after Laurie, his baby sister who is now grown
up and is preparing her and her friends for a night of hell.

The acting on the teenage girl's parts was just horrendous, like
extremely bad, I was actually hoping for them to get killed, how sad
was that? Laurie was just a whiny little priss, not at all likable like
Jamie's performance, same with the other two girls, they couldn't live
up to the other performances. These girls were just annoying, not
likable at all, while the other actresses at least had that going for
them and made them likable vicitims. But it just seemed like they
wanted their 15 minutes or some kind of big break, because it didn't
even take them 10 minutes to take their tops off. On a movie on it's
own, it's just too unoriginal and I'm disappointed in Rob because I
thought he was really improving. Comparison to the original Halloween,
perhaps Rob should have read the tag line THE ONE, THE ONLY, HALLOWEEN,
because this was a huge slap to John Carpenter's face on his brilliant
classic.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
The basic problem with Rob Zombie's remake of the classic horror flick
Halloween comes from its purpose. The only reason he should have even
considered attempting such a feat is if he seriously felt he could
service the film by giving it an update and improving some of its
shortcomings that result from the tests of time. Sadly, Zombie not only
does nothing to improve the film, he hacks and slashes away all of the
mystique the original had and rips open brand new gory, messy, and
pointless holes throughout.

The character of Michael Myers in the original film came from a fairly
well-to-do suburban family, yet inexplicably turned out a rotten,
merciless killing machine. It is pretty essential to Michael's
"Boogeyman" persona that he appear as something almost supernatural,
and certainly nothing the audience could ever sympathize with. Yet
Zombie drags a newly fashioned back-story out for half of the movie,
trying to give reasons for why Myers does what he does, stomping all
over the mystery that surrounded the original character and struck fear
into all members of the audience. It is also a major part of the
character of Dr. Loomis that Michael be the impossible case study, one
that even the most accomplished psychologist couldn't comprehend.
Instead, Zombie (in typical fashion of his God-awful career) makes
Michael the product of a run-down, white trash environment. Any
movie-goer would find it difficult to not laugh at the ridiculous
caricatures Michael's family members portray, if they were not already
bored to death by Zombie's fetish with white trash, and his
predictability as a director.

Zombie saw it fit to remove almost all of the classic scenes that made
the original so memorable and replace them with blood-strewn bodies of
naked women at every turn. I'm not sure who exactly thinks "porn + gore
= horror", but I'll tell you that there is a major difference between a
creepy, mysterious mask-wearing man chasing after a scared babysitter
and popping out from behind every corner and one bashing in someone's
head with a baseball bat repeatedly to no one's amusement. It's fine if
some people in the world enjoy goriness every once in awhile, it's not
fine if Hollywood directors begin to confuse this with horror. Repeated
sadistic killings are not what scares an audience, they're what sickens
them. Mystery, suspense, and the creepy aura of the unknown are what
make up a good horror film, and the original Halloween is THE classic
example of this. Also, as a side-note but something that needs to be
mentioned, who the hell talks like Laurie and her two friends in this
film? These three girls, the blonde friend in particular, converse as
if high schoolers find it extremely cool to drop the f-bomb every other
word and sound as annoyingly immature as possible. The entirety of the
dialogue written for their parts suggests no one involved in the making
of this film has any idea what teenage girls talk like, so one of them
decided to make it up and make them all look like total fools. I had
already given up on the film by this point, but it seriously made me
and everyone I came with kind of concerned that a film could get all of
the way through the editing process and into theaters with such odd
dialogue that would actually cause us to look at each other with
quizzical faces.

My one piece of advice to moviegoers everywhere is, instead of putting
more of your hard-earned money into the pocket of a hack director like
Zombie and fueling the fire of awful modern horror films and terrible
remakes, stay at home, dim the lights, and watch the original classic
to remind yourself of just what makes a horror movie tick, just how
great movies of that genre once were, and just what it feels like to
truly be scared - heck, that's exactly what I'm going to do to try and
push this steaming pile out of my memory. It's bad when a horror movie
comes out that's filled with lots of cheap gore, overused expletives,
and pointless nudity, it's far worse when it's done as a remake of a
classic. The only people this film will strike horror into the hearts
of is fans of the original, and sadly this is not the type of horror
they paid to see - they, like myself, will be absolutely horrified at
just how bad the abomination of a remake that is Rob Zombie's Halloween
truly is.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a big fan of the recent trend of remaking all the classic
horror films of the '70s and '80s, but I decided to go see the new
"Halloween" anyway, if for no other reason than I'd never seen any of
the original films in a theater. (That, and I figured they couldn't do
much worse than the god-awful "Halloween: Resurrection", the most
recent entry before this remake.) IMHO the original "Halloween" is one
of the greatest horror films ever, and certainly the best "slasher"
movie (unless you count Hitchcock's "Psycho", but that's another
topic.) I really expected to be let down, even though I haven't seen
any of Rob Zombie's other movies.

For the first five minutes, I thought, "Great, they took this classic
American slasher flick and turned it into a white trash festival." But
once Michael started talking (which he never does in the original film)
something clicked, and I was hooked. The new film takes the Michael
Meyers "mythos" (if you will) and fleshes it out, giving the audience a
frightening insight to the true horror that exists all around us before
eviscerating us with the shocks and gore we really paid to see.

The movie loses some of its momentum when it jumps to the present day,
when too often it reverts back to simply restaging some of the
trend-setting scenes from its predecessor - Laurie staring out the
window at school and seeing the weirdo in the coveralls and the white
mask staring at her, only to vanish seconds later. But hold on, friends
- just when you think you know what's coming, the new "Halloween" veers
off on its own course, and from then on all bets are off.

One of the most significant updates to the "Halloween" legend is the
development of Dr. Loomis, the Van Helsing to Meyers' Dracula. The
original Loomis (played memorably by the late Donald Pleasance, who
kept returning for sequel after sequel despite his age and - in later
years - ill health) was little more than John Carpenter's answer to
Captain Ahab. Each film saw him trying to convince another group of
skeptical law enforcement officers of the imminent slaughter, never to
be believed until the bodies started piling up. The new film's Loomis,
however, is a more complex character; he's not the selfless hero the
old Loomis was, but he's not quite a villain either, as long as one can
forgive him for giving up on Michael to turn his experiences into a
cottage industry of "true crime" books and public speaking engagements.
When Loomis and Michael are reunited later on, there's more going on
then can be seen in a first viewing.

Zombie's "Halloween" succeeds on all fronts. It brings modern touches
to a format that had long since fallen into cliché without changing it
so much that it becomes unrecognizable. It manages to restore the
menace and dread of the iconic Michael Meyers character in an era when
masked psychopaths usually prompt the audience to laugh rather than
gasp. Most importantly, it delivers the goods horror fans demand but
includes enough depth and subtext to make it more than just cinematic
junk food.

In short, I was pleasantly surprised with this new version of
"Halloween". Like Zach Snyder's redo of "Dawn of the Dead", the 2007
"Halloween" could never replace its predecessor, but does make for a
very admirable companion piece to a horror classic, blending the old
and the new into an entertaining and thought-provoking fright film.
<|_=00=_|>
I have always been a big fan of the Halloween series. I've seen every
one, and even though some of the sequels are cheesy, I thought it was
still a good watch. When I found out that Rob Zombie, supposedly one of
the best new horror directors was making the next film, I was actually
pretty psyched because I thought it may revive the series. But let me
tell you. This is the not only the worst Halloween movie, this is in my
top ten bottom movies. Rob Zombie completely misses the point of
Michael Myers. Not knowing what makes him tick IS WHAT MAKES HIM SCARY!
The original Halloween is frightening because the child Michael myers
has NO REASON to kill his sister, he just does and never speaks another
word. He's evil by nature, not by nurture. This plot line makes it seem
more horrifying because its not personal, and the audience feels like
it could happen to THEM! When I watch a horror movie, I don't want to
see how the killer had a hard life, and really could of been a good
guy. Why would a director make an audience sympathize with a serial
killer? I can only see that succeeding in a dark comedy, but in a
horror movie it just does not work. 

Another problem with this movie is the gore. Gore can work in certain
scenarios, but when you uses it excessively in a movie there are few
cases when it makes the movie scary. In this "reimagining" not only are
there unnecessary character deaths that destroy any sort of realism,
but there is no creativity in the death scenes. Every time a girl got
killed she was in the process of having sex or just finished having
sex. By the third time you see a couple get murdered, I was like
"Alright we get it, they're crazzzy teenagers having sex and they're
gonna get killed!" I mean I know it's never been done before but it got
to be old the third time. At some points I wondered if it was actually
a snuff film.

The dialogue was some of the weakest I've ever heard, even for cheesy
slasher films. And the sad part was, this film was trying so hard to be
serious that it was hard to ignore. I know the dialogue in other
Halloween's is rough but for a film that had so much hype, and was
supposed to "reinvent" a legend, I'd expect a little more than immature
lines about sex that are awkwardly delivered. I am a teenager and I
know teenagers talk about sex, but nothing like that. This film had
some of the weakest writing I have ever seen.

There are some good performances, particularly by Malcolm McDowell, who
plays Dr. Loomis, but his part is profoundly damaged by the script, so
even he looks foolish in the film. Brad Dourif also was good, but
didn't have a lot of screen time. Other than that there were some good
cameos(Danny Trejo, Ken Foree) but they're barely in it. Unfortunately,
Rob Zombie confuses Michael myers with Jason and makes an 11 year old
normally sized boy into a 26 year old 7 foot monster. Conveniently he
gains amazing physical prowess staying in a mental hospital.

Avoid this movie at all costs. I actually paid my friend a couple
dollars to stay to the end, because it was that bad. I was hoping it
would get better it but it did not. I mean I tried to like this movie,
but it was just so terrible. The movie wastes so much time trying to
develop Michael myers, that it barely develops the victims that he
stalks. You just don't care about the teenagers he kills because you
barely know them when he catches up with them. It's basically a movie
about a killer killing random people. Seriously, just rent the original
and watch it again, it's cheaper and even if you've seen it a thousand
times its better than this. Rob Zombie is a terrible writer, and a
terrible director who likes to show off his wife. (Who's a stripper in
this movie of course). He is a hack and is only acclaimed because some
people think excessive violence is cool. I doubt there's many people
scared by his techniques. I'm just trying to forget this movie ever
existed, and no matter what anybody says, I plan to never see another
rob zombie film again. I think the fact that Saw IV is premiering in
October, and Halloween is coming out in August really should tell you
how bad it is alone. Trust me though, even die hard Halloween fans,
this is not worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from seeing the "re-imagining" (barf) of John Carpenter's
HALLOWEEN. It doesn't even begin to compare to the original, but you
knew that. But...if one attempts to take it on its own terms, as Rob
Zombie seems to want the audience to do, is it worthwhile? The question
is, regardless of the original, has Rob Zombie made a good movie? Well,
the answer is YES, but it was called THE DEVIL'S REJECTS.

What we have here is noisy, distasteful, pointless, and sloppy.
Everyone speaks leftover dialogue from THE DEVIL'S REJECTS, and what
worked for those characters fails miserably for these. Every character
in this film speaks as though they are 10 seconds away from throwing
the first chair on Jerry Springer. Scenes aren't allowed to build, they
jerk and sputter. The best moments come early, between young Michael
and his mother (both played very well)...but even those scenes are
constantly undermined by bad, choppy editing and surrounding characters
(particularly the father) who are horribly written and seem to be
played for laughs.

The middle scenes in the hospital are interesting, but ultimately
rendered pointless once the final (and worst) third of the film kicks
in. Laurie, Annie, and Lynda are feckless foul-mouthed twits this time
around, generating zero sympathy. Apparently in keeping with Zombie's
theme from HOUSE OF 1000 CORPSES and THE DEVIL'S REJECTS, the villain
is the hero here, and this time it doesn't work. Since the only
sympathetic characters are the supporting players who get pointlessly
offed after barely a minute of screen time, the only one to root for is
Michael. Is that really what Zombie had in mind? 

Judging from the reaction of the audience I saw this film with, it's
what he accomplishes. People were laughing when characters were killed.
Brutal, calculatedly cruel scenes are featured of nurses stabbed in the
neck with forks, children beat to death with poles, teenagers stabbed
to death multiple times, animals tortured (offscreen), and slutty
topless girls strangled and beaten to death. The audience didn't
scream, they laughed. It isn't because the film is funny...it's not. It
isn't because the film is so bad it's good...it's not. I've never
believed the theory of audience de-sensitizing due to TV, movie, and
game violence. Until I witnessed this film.

I've seen movies more violent, more disturbing, more exploitive. But
never so pointless, all the while pretending to be about
something...anything.

Zombie's creation is a movie about morons, intended for morons. He is a
talented and intelligent filmmaker who has made a movie driven by so
many distasteful obsessions it practically throbs on the screen. But
unlike his previous work, there's no point, not even for sheer trashy
exploitation. Characters exist only to be killed. Women disrobe,
everyone's vocabulary consists of nothing but four letter words, and
the movie hisses and bangs and screams its way to a final, protracted,
unexciting chase between an irresponsible babysitter we care nothing
about and a 7 foot tall slasher with a Halloween mask fetish and an
obsession with a sister he barely knew.

By the time the film screeched to the credits and the lights came up, I
had already fought with the four women in front of me (the dumb-ass
mother had brought her three daughters, the dumb-assettes, who managed
to giggle and snort and talk through a good portion of the movie). The
argument continued after the movie was over, complete with
name-calling. The entire theatre stared as they silently shuffled out.

This is the reason I despise seeing movies in the theatre anymore. But
I realized at least this nasty confrontation had given me something the
movie had not: an element of excitement. These four girls had no
consideration for anyone around them. They were rude, obnoxious,
unreasonable and stupid.

And as my friend and I vacated the theatre, it finally hit me...THEY
were the audience this film was intended for.
<|_=00=_|>
In the taxonomy of redeeming values, one could include social,
scientific, artistic, political, comedic, moral, etc. And it's nearly
impossible to find any creative work that can't be defended or
justified under one of these categories. That is, until now. Rob
Zombie's "Halloween" is devoid of any redeeming value. It not only
plumbs the depths of deprivation, it sets a new low-water mark for
tasteless dreck.

This has nothing to do with prudishness, squeamishness, or easily
offended sensibilities. It has to do with poor scripting, bad (read
"no") character development, predictability, gratuitous gore and
ultimately, just plain meaninglessness. Even the most abstract,
non-narrative, experimental genres of film have a point that can be
ascertained, albeit with some difficulty in some cases. But "Halloween"
has no point. In the end, it is merely a series of unmotivated,
contrived, gruesome vignettes that, cumulatively, add up to nothing.
The film uses every cliché known to bad cinema: Doors that don't open,
guns that don't fire, victims who fall and crawl when they can
ill-afford to do so, under lit scenes that attempt to falsely create a
sense of impending mayhem, some horrific, vile and pandering dialogue
and the monster who just won't die. Mr. Zombie uses them all. It's hard
to escape the notion that there is nothing intended or achieved beyond
fundamental shock value.

Billed as a 'retelling' of John Carpenter's original, a somewhat, if
only marginally better version, this edition of "Halloween" supposedly
provides an explanation of the causes of Michael Myers' homicidal
psychosis, to wit, his excessively foul-mouthed and dysfunctional
parents, who, as characters are as creek-shallow as the rest of the
cast. The only one I felt sorry for was Malcolm McDowellthe actor--not
Dr. Loomis, his character. How he, the quintessential, ultra-violent
Alex de Large of Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" and the
multi-faceted Mick Travises of Lindsay Anderson's "If" and "O Lucky
Man" and the H. G. Wells of "Time After Time," got roped into such an
awful piece of cinema is a mystery.

Thematically and cinematically, "Halloween" is virtually identical to
Mr. Zombie's two previous films, "House Of 1000 Corpses" and "The
Devil's Rejects." In fact, except for the titles, the three films are
nearly indistinguishable from one another as they all suffer from being
stuck in the same stylistic rut. While Mr. Zombie does push the
envelope of bad taste, there's no evidence that he pushes his own
development as a filmmaker, and shows no directorial growth in his
progression of films. What he overlooks in his bloodlust is the idea
that showing less can be more effective than showing more, as in the
"Psycho" shower scene when the knife is never seen striking the victim.
Leaving nothing to the viewer's imagination and, instead, hammering
home the obvious, can be the undoing of a film, which sums up the
problem with "Halloween." Slasher films may well be the cinematic
equivalents of bottom-feeders, but it doesn't necessarily follow that
they have to be abhorrently distasteful and bad, or that they can't
strive to achieve some measure of redeeming value.

Where Rob Zombie will go from here seems painfully apparent. Having
painted himself into a corner from which it may be hard to escape, he
may be his own next victim.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard that Rob Zombie was remaking the original Halloween
I was more surprised then anything. I didn't know too much about Rob
Zombie, but I did think that remaking the film wasn't the best choice.
my thought was that if they did want to remake it then first they
should do a FINAL Halloween sequel to finish off the Halloween series
and finally give it an end, then film a remake for October 2008 (the
30th anniversary) but instead we get a rushed written script, rushed
filming and production and a back story to a once terrifying character
that proved to be overdone and drawn out. I could not believe how poor
the dialog was, it was if the director believed that use of poor
language was necessary in making a successful movie. the movie opens in
a such a way that anyone who has seen the original will say that it
does not fit the story. Michael's family is just pure white trash,
what's the point of that. all the death scenes contained way too much
gore, and every girl that was killed, had to be done while having sex
and nude. a lot of the characters that we're killed, had no point to be
killed. the second half of the film was completely rushed we didn't get
to see much of the other characters. Scout-Taylor Compton is a gifted
actress, but the script gave her no acceptable lines or enough screen
time. the placement of carpenter's music does not fit at all. being the
fan of Halloween that i am, i could not wait for the movie to be over.
if a sequel is made to this movie i only hope that rob zombie is not
asked to write or direct it. this movie makes Halloween resurrection
look like a masterpiece, that should explain it all.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was terrible, i am a HUGE fan of the Halloween
movies, i could not wait for this movie to come out so when it did i
went opening night only to real disappointment, i feel Rob Zombie
destroyed the movie, it was not scary one bit, i felt like the actors
were trying to be the ones in the original, i didn't care what happened
to any of them, where in the original i wanted to see them live. He
killed all these people and left Annie alive, that was kind of odd,
even the background of the movie having Michael Myers parents be like
white trash was just stupid, i think a lot of people would end up being
killers. Michael Myers was pretty much supposed to be just pure evil
without there ever really being a reason, thats what pretty much scared
me about the originals. I never really review movies at all because i
am pretty easy to please but this was such a disaster i had to share my
opinion:)
<|_=00=_|>
Clearly, Rob Zombie has no grasp of what made the original "Halloween"
so effective, so he "re-imagines" it with his white trash aesthetic. It
still doesn't work. Zombie's "Halloween" is a boring abortion of a
movie that has a decent first half hour that depicts the abusive nature
of Michael Myers' upbringing. That was never the point of the original,
of course, because THAT Michael Myers was spawned in middle class,
suburban smugness. Still, I was willing to go with Zombie's mythology
if he could make it convincing. He can't. The film is predictable,
illogical and insufferable. The last hour is a dull carbon copy of
everything that happened in the original without the suspense or
subtext. I wanted this movie to end so badly. The film's slaughter
scenes are vapid, Zombie's dialog is idiotic, and The Shape possesses
no mystery. Zombie can not write real people; he can only write trash
talk and abuse. Since "Halloween" requires that there be real people in
its storyline, the film is a colossal failure in all departments.
Zombie's version of Laurie Strode, the role originally played by Jamie
Lee Curtis, is an annoying, squealing cut-out. Malcolm Mcdowell's Dr.
Loomis is an embarrassment. Lots of horror movie veterans make an
appearance, but who the f__k cares? I'm really sick of horror directors
thinking it's cool to fill their films with actors from past classics.
It merely reminds us of how great things used to be before hack
directors like Zombie were canonized as horror genre gods. I liked "The
Devil's Rejects" very much and hated "House of 1000 Corpses", so my
feelings about Zombie are mixed. This "Halloween" is far worse than
"Corpses" and not equal to one minute of "Rejects". It's simply a
rotten misfire that isn't shocking, exciting, involving or "cutting
edge". It makes the "Texas Chainsaw" remakes look like spun, celluloid
gold. This film may have rung the death knell of the current horror
boom. Thanks, Rob.
