
Took my nine-year old daughter and we both really enjoyed it. I found
the animated portions far more engaging than the human-acted portions,
but that wasn't a real distraction. The other commenters on the film
here in IMDb seem to be very annoyed by the lack of a completely
cohesive plot, but hey, this isn't Citizen Kane! We really work hard to
find films we will take our daughter to see, and having viewed the
preview some time ago, I was happy to stumble upon the opening of this
movie this weekend. I can guarantee that we'll see it again before it
leaves the theatres and will likely purchase the DVD. The violence was
minimal and well-handled (vague battle scenes), the scary parts not
over-the-top scary, and the light touch with the romance was
appreciated by the mom of a pre-pre-teen. Nice family movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie because of my wife. She read the books some
time ago and really wanted to see the movie. I am not too fond of
animations.

I was pleasantly surprised. I liked the story a lot. It was really nice
to see something new for a change. There are not too many clich√©s in
it, and the little acting that is in the movie is quite good.

I was a bit disappointed by the animations. I think they could have
been a bit better. But then again, as I said I am not the biggest
animation fan.

Parting comments: It's a movie for the family. There should be
something in it for every age.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie in the theater was wonderful...however now we have watched
the DVD and the children are quite disappointed as many of the funny
scenes have been cut out...this is the first time I have seen this
happen. For example the two kisses between Arthur and Selinia...the
dance with Max...when the parents are digging for the treasure...the
part where the buyer tries to steal the treasure....the part where the
coconut breaks and Arthur asks Selinia for the string on her top for
him to climb...when they were almost kissing and Selinia's brother said
she had to wait for the next ten years....when they are sleeping in the
flower and Selinia wakes Arthur has his arm around her...these are just
a few of the scenes the children have noticed on our first viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
I hesitated to watch this after hearing some negative revues, but when
I finally saw it with my 6 year old daughter, we were both pleasantly
surprised. Just goes to show that you shouldn't take someone else's
word for something like a movie in most cases. Anyway it was a great
movie, fun for my little girl, she especially liked the fairy princess
and all of the cute little creatures. I thought that it was beautifully
done and I liked the whole Indiana Jones meets honey I shrunk the kids
feel to it. I thought that Snoop was hilarious in the movie with his
bug club or whatever you want to call it. Well worth watching
especially if you have a little girl who loves fairies, and you don't
want to get stuck watching something like Barbie and the 12 dancing
princesses. (don't laugh it could happen to you)
<|_=00=_|>
Beautiful artwork, wonderful voices for the animated characters by
David Bowie, Madonna, Jimmy Fallon, Robert DeNiro, and Ron Crawford.
Great to see an imaginative, kind child as hero, and see Mia Farrow act
again. Arthur uses his love for his grandparents and his intelligence
to persevere and save the day. (A treat for artists in the audience is
grandpa's personal journal of watercolors and sketches at the beginning
of the movie). The action really takes off once the movie transitions
to animation, and perhaps moves too fast, although the children with me
were able to follow it. The animated characters are adorable and even
though they are very contemporary, and the movie takes place during the
depression, kids will be able to relate to the animated fantasy
characters - since they are fantasy characters, there is no reason they
can't be contemporary. Overall a nice story for kids, with some good
lessons for kids re: love, loyalty, perseverance, intelligence.
<|_=00=_|>
Every now and then it's nice to be reminded of the power of the
imagination; of what it was like as children to escape to other worlds
and embark on remarkable adventures. Luc Besson's Arthur and the
Invisibles does just that and does it brilliantly with a mix of
stunningly shot live action and wonderfully crafted, sometimes
breath-taking CGI animation. It's a story which echoes, and
affectionately pays homage to, many of the very best Children's
stories. Stories such as The Sword in the Stone, Alice in Wonderland
and The Borrowers.

The tale's young hero, Arthur, is battling to save his grandparents'
home from the clutches of real estate developers. His grandfather is
missing, but handily he's left the boy a series of clues to a hidden
treasure trove which, if it's found, could be used to pay off the
money- grubbing developers. But this is no straight-forward, stroll in
the park search. In trying to find the haul Arthur must unlock the
passageway to an underground world populated by curious, minute
creatures. The home of these "invisibles" is also in peril: in their
case, because of a malevolent wizard. So, joining forces with an almost
improbably beautiful princess, Arthur sets off on his perilous mission.

The cast list reads like a Hollywood Who's Who. Robert de Niro, Harvey
Keitel, Madonna and Mia Farrow all feature. But it's the young lead who
really takes centre stage. Freddie Highmore was Charlie in Tim Burton's
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. It was a role he played well but I
fully expected him, as with a plethora of child actors, to then
disappear into fresh air. But Highmore comes alive in this movie; both
when we see him in the flesh, and when he's voicing his animated
incarnation. Besides Highmore, Mia Farrow, as Arthur's scatty
grandmother, is utterly charming and David Bowie makes for a very
creepy, yet nicely understated, evil wizard Maltazard. The look of
Maltazard's henchmen exemplify the darker side of Luc Besson's previous
work but their idiocy prevents them being too terrifying for smaller
children.

The film isn't flawless. Jimmy Fallon's Betameche, while surely popular
with the film's younger viewers, at times borders on the unbearably
annoying; while the casting of forty- eight year old Madonna as
Princess Selenia seems a little odd. Her performance is perfectly
adequate, but in effect she spends most of the time flirting with a
schoolchild. Strange.

But the gems in Arthur and the Invisibles far outshine any minor
negatives. Mixing live action with CGI could quite easily look messy
and unconvincing but, quite simply, it works and while there's always a
danger of such a tale descending into saccharine sludge, thankfully
that doesn't happen. Arthur's quest is a joy to follow; it deserves to
be anything but invisible.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I am kind of upset to see what has been out there about this movie
so far. I have seen a lot of cartoons and pixar movies almost all of
them and by far I think this was one of the best ones out there. I
would say if this movie interested you just a little go to the movie
and judge for yourself. I thought the characters were well thought out
and there were some really great moments in this movie. While I was
watching it I almost hoped it would never end and that I could learn
more about them.

The movie didn't drag like a lot of movies do it had a great flow to
it. The amount of detail put into the movie was great the large shot of
the house and the grounds to the room with all the old stuff in it.To
the amount of detail put into the characters clothing and there
personalities.

I like that they gave you a story before the story even happened. Once
in the small world it is easy to get caught up in all the action that
is going on. So make your own judgment and don't listen to those people
who can't stop for a moment and just enjoy the movie for what it is a
great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
'Arthur et les Minimoys' is a charming little children's adventure
film. The world of the Minimoys is well created and it is the animated
sequences that are much more fun than the acted sequences even though
Mia Farrow and Freddie Highmore keep the latter sequences alive while
the rest of the actors don't. There has been some nice creative input
behind the making of the world of Minimoys. The animation is lively,
the vibrant colours and detail are fascinating, the characters are
lovable, especially Princess Selenia and her brother and the voice
casting (that includes Madonna, Harvey Keitel, Jason Bateman and more)
is great. The adventure with Arthur, Selenia and her brother is fun and
engaging. How often do you get to see characters sleeping on a cosy bed
of pollen, straws being used as a water supply or figures dancing on a
moving LP disk? The romance between Selenia and Arthur is well handled.
Moreover the film balances the comedy, fantasy and adventure feel very
well. Overall, 'Arthur et les Minimoys' is a cute little fun film.
Clearly, Luc Besson's intention was to make a children's film and he
has succeeded in making a nice one.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, the rating of this movie doesn't do its justice. I just
finished watching this movie and truly enjoyed the experience.

The story sets in the era of great depression in US. A brave young kid
took upon himself the task of saving the family house from the
aggressive developer . Though the backdrop of the story were presented
in real world (verses animation), the main adventure and action took
place in a fantasy realm done in computer animations. This contrast,
while a unique and fresh take on movie making, brought its main
criticism I guess. Some may find the plot defies logic and common sense
because of the realistic premises. Others like me doesn't find it a
hindrance but rather a nice change of pace and perspective.

Technically speaking, the animation was really nicely done and the
world has a unique look and artistic touch to it. The flow of the story
goes really fast and sometime I felt that things are all happening at
too much an opportune moment. It is as if the big events in the world
of Minimoys has been waiting just for the arrival of Arthur. It is the
catch 22 of movie making I guess. On one hand you want to pack in all
the stories and actions in less than 2 hours. On the other hand, you
don't want audience feel like the world was just created in a hurry so
you can tell the story.

The characters are all very likable. Especially the minimoys, even the
bad guys has certain feel of cuteness to them. Some humor are lost in
translation I guess consider it's done by a French director. Still
there are nice touches in detail here and there that give the
characters the kind of Charm and personality you may not find in the
usual Hollywood characters. There are moments of awkwardness and
disarray that made me burst out in laughters, which I find them to be a
better kind of humor than most of the physical comedy in other animated
movies.

In the end, this is the kind of the feel good movie that brings warmth
and smile for the whole family. In the process, it takes you on a
magical ride that filled with wonders and unexpected laughters. It
defied some logics, broke a few physic laws, and filled some background
stories in a rush. But it never dampened the infectious spirit, of a
courageous young boy, who still wanted to believe in miracles and would
never give up even in the most desperate moment. If you are like me,
you would find yourself walk away with a little bit of that spirit in
you.
<|_=00=_|>
People i don't know why they says this movie is not good, i think it is
an excellent movie, and this is one of my favorite 3D Animated
(oriented) movies i have seen recently, Kids will love it, so as adults
and i like the ending too, i just can't wait for a Sequel, Nice
animation, and funny tooo, DOn't believe in what others say, if you
like movies such as "Flushed Away", "Jumanji", "Zathura", "A Bugs
Life", etc, you will definitely gonna love it...... I don't wanna talk
about the story because it might spoil the fun, Just go ahead and watch
it, You'll thank me later for putting up this review, I hope IMDb will
someday have better method of reviewing movies, and recommending
movie's alike each other.
