
I was astonished at the dismal rating for this film, which at the time
of this writing was 4.8. Into the Blue never demonstrated any pretense
of becoming the next academy award winner, and instead faithfully
executed its focus -- beautiful ocean scenery, beautiful bodies, and a
significant degree of tension and action to carry the plot. I found the
characters believable, especially given the target audience of the
movie: the dialog was fairly cleverly humorous, but serious when it
needed to be; the characters were adequately conceived, including the
intentionally unlikeable 4th party woman who "wasn't family." Most of
all, I enjoyed the pacing of the movie. Some slow underwater scenes
were accompanied by peaceful music belying the increasingly perilous
situations the characters found themselves in. Halfway through the
movie, the tension never fully dissipates, as each event flows into the
next as the stakes rise. The badguys are dealt with intelligently, and
there are enough twists to convincingly carry the instability and
danger of the situation.

I went into this movie wanting to enjoy it, and I wasn't disappointed.
Though its premise wasn't the most intellectual of premises, I don't
feel as if it were dumbed down as much as many action movies do, and
instead carried out is plot with due respect given its expectations.
I'd recommend this movie as a good post-summer adventure flick!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm pretty critical of most pop films, but I thought this was one of
the best ones to come out in awhile. The underwater cinematography was
amazing - totally worth the matin√©e price and cheaper than diving- the
kind of film you need the bigscreen to enjoy. 

Sure I love much more clever crafted films , but for the MTV generation
this film had just enough, maybe the fact that I am an ocean person,
have a thing for treasure, the romance of lost properties and jessica
alba- i was totally enjoying it. 

I thought the casting was great- sure Paul really cant act, but he
reminded of more than a handful of people I went to highschool with -
so I could believe it- his obnxious pompous buddy was classic and some
of the underlying subplots of human greed are so universal that I
actually felt something for these morons. 

The real star is the ocean here and the good guy/ bad guy looked like
my step brother and fit the bill. Anyhow i doubt this film will do very
little justice on a small screen, but overall the script was solid and
the sea animal work was mind blowing. 

Maybe I was just in the mood - but i enjoyed it and watching alba swim,
god she is gorgeous. Didn't change my life, but I was entertained to
the end.
<|_=00=_|>
You almost feel like Rodney Dangerfield from Back to School after
watching this movie. The film has some neat underwater photography,
some good stunts, and even a twist or two. But ultimately, it's just as
excuse to show off some young flesh. Is that entirely a bad thing? The
Hound thinks not. A good dosage of Jessica Alba flesh can warm you up
on the coldest winter day.

Into the Blue is directed by John Stockwell. Yes, the guy who played
Cougar in Top Gun. One may dislike the content of the films he's made
thus far in his early directing career (Blue Crush, Crazy/Beautiful),
but one cannot deny the fact that the man knows how to shoot young
women's bodies. Since there are only two female main characters, that
means there are also plenty of young men for the women to feast their
eyes on. Paul Walker kind of has the Justin Timberlake thing going on.
Seeing him and Tyson Beckford really makes me feel out of shape now
that the holidays are over.

Oh, the plot! I almost forgot. It's basically a re-hash of The Deep. We
have young treasure hunters in the Caribbean who find not only a sunken
ship carrying gold, but a recently crashed plane full of cocaine on the
ocean floor. Naturally, the drug dealer of record in the area wants the
coke for himself, and doesn't want anyone getting in the way by
searching for treasure near by. The resulting action has numerous gun
battles, shark attacks, kidnappings, and acts of machismo. The film is
a little long, but the conclusion is worth sticking around for.

This film is not to be confused with anything up for an Academy Award
this year. It was filmed nearly a year and a half before it was
released for reasons I would not dare to speculate on. It did make $18
million bucks in the theaters, but any long-lasting success this film
has will depend on if any of these stars goes on to have a long career.
There is an extraordinary amount of violence and gore for a PG-13 film.
An F-bomb or two here and there, would have certainly given it an R.
The acting is pretty sparse. The scenes above water look rushed, and
possibly printed on the first or second take. The scenes below water
are very impressive, however.

The verdict: 5 of 10 stars. This is a popcorn flick with some decent
production values, and a hot young cast. Not much else. Too many bad
guys, and a plot that doesn't know when to resolve itself. Here's a
little game if you get bored with the movie... see if you can hold your
breath as long as these people do in some of these scenes. Some of the
time it seems like they go several minutes without breathing.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't go to movies much but I am an avid diver and wanted to watch
this on the big screen. There are really only about 5 movies that made
the big screen and involve diving to any degree. I have over 300 dives
and I have never seen a more beautiful capture of the love of water.
From the Jet Ski scene to the Yachts to the fantastic display of coral
fish and rays galore I felt like I was right there. It seems the movie
is being ripped up because of the drug involvement and treasure find
similar to the Deep. Are you for real? Take any murder mystery and of
which there are thousands, and guess what there's a stiff a cop and
someone with a weapon who seems like a nice guy but isn't. And that's
OK cause as long as there's blood a babe and a bad cop the tickets will
keep selling. As long as you see this movie for what it is you will
enjoy it very much. This is about a guy with high morals -a little
lacking today, who is living in trash to do what he wants more then
anything in the world, a treasure finder. Trouble finds him because he
is good at what he does. The movie is fast paced and exciting from the
very beginning I can't believe the poor reviews that have been listed
by other viewers. This is worth every bit of $7 to see.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't have high hopes when I went to see this film and expected it
to be little more than Jessica Alba in a bikini and her friends arguing
over some underwater goodies. How wrong I was ! Ms Alba is the only
'big' name in this film but all the actors do an excellent job in
building-up and developing their characters. The dialogue and
interaction is very good, how the characters relate to each other and
how they behave is completely believable and its a really good story.
Its starts off slow, setting the scene and introducing characters
gradually and then it suddenly begins to accelerate - soon enough there
are British gangsters appearing, a bit of piracy going-on, some mystery
over a sunken ship and several plot twists. Yes Miss Alba is scantily
clad but this is a good thriller with a good story that keeps adding
surprises along the way.
<|_=00=_|>
Fou young divers come across a legendary shipwreck that is rumoured to
contain millions in gold, but nearby to their lucky find is another
more sinister mystery. As rival treasure hunters begin to suspect their
discovery, their friendships and loyalties are tested; and they must
make haste before they become the hunted along with the treasure.

The story is solid enough, and in truth it was well above my
expectations, captivating my interest very early on and remaining
suspenseful and intriguing enough throughout the picture. The cast are
all good enough, although they were probably chosen as much for their
looks as their acting abilities, but who can deny that Jessica Alba and
Ashley Scott did add a sexy feel for the male audience, and i guess
Paul Walker and Scott Caan did the same for the ladies.

What really made the film for me was the truly fantastic scenery and
the underwater camera work; it was flawless and stunningly beautiful in
a way that is rarely captured on film, three cheers for the direction
and the film crew for that.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Which is: popcorn. This PG-13 "kiddie-action" gets a solid 6/10 from
me. I did have my expectations low but that has nothing to do with the
fact that this movie is as solid and tight as Jessica Alba in bikinis!
There were more than just a few moments where there was either a twist
I didn't see coming or an intense moment that left me thinking "OK,
wasn't this supposed to be a PG-13 movie?" On top of those, the overall
- checklist looks green: dialog, characters, tempo, photography,
editing... All in all, a cut above the rest in its own genre and a
"risk-free" choice to rent. Shame it did only 18 million at the
box-office because it's as good as "The Fast and the Furious"!
<|_=00=_|>
I'd read about this film and seen the trailer and knew I would see it
even after I read all the damning reviews people have written.

For the first hour, it's easy to see why people might get bored,
there's a lot of character and story building going on and besides the
diving there isn't a lot else going on action-wise. Personally, I am
quite into diving so for me the appeal was there. It was quite odd for
me as after an hour I had found myself totally immensed in the story
and unaware of anything else happening in the cinema around me! After
the first hour things really start hotting up and the action begins.
Without giving too much away the climax is just about right in terms of
time although Jared's summary of who is crossing or double-crossing who
was rather too brief and quick for me. Never mind, we all knew who was
the bad guy anyway. And so after the climax is the finale and it's
predictable stuff sure, but I'm all for a happy ending (hey, who
isn't?!).

I summary, I would recommend this to anyone 25 or under really. The
story is solid enough to keep you interested and the diving scenes are
pretty spectacular (as is Jessica Alba!). As long as you aren't
expecting an Oscar winner you'll do fine!
<|_=00=_|>
If you like crystal clear underwater scenery, life at a sunny shore and
boating there is no way for you to miss this film. I watched it twice
on a razor sharp big scope-screen to take in all the underwater
details. The film takes every opportunity to put the likable characters
under water, and this is what the film is all about. The beauty of the
people in this simple adventure plot adds to the overall beauty of this
film and is not a separate element as a lot of
Jessica-Alba-in-bikini-blah-blah suggests. Let it put a smile on your
face but let it not pop your eyes out. Along with that, pop songs, film
music and sound effects are organically interwoven. The film consists
of scenes and NOT of cheap fast cuts and hectic camera work, below and
above surface. 

The filmmakers obviously liked and knew what they were doing. What I
couldn't believe is that the same filmmakers also liked detailed scenes
of unnecessary cruelty though not too explicit and only near the end. I
learned from this and some harsh critics here that when you set a new
standard of underwater-adventure you don't reach that part of the
audience who only want the thrill of fears and killing and the clash of
good vs. evil, because these people totally miss the beauty (and all
the work that obviously went into achieving it) and feel bored. So why
spoil a film with that in the first place? There are enough cruel
thrillers out there. So go for all-adventure, anti-cynic. A step in the
right direction and an honorable follow up to THE DEEP. 

Funny note: After the Columbia-logo during the credits I thought, who
knows, perhaps this is the new THE DEEP (also Columbia), and THEN on
the screen appeared the name of the executive producers including Peter
Guber, the original producer of THE DEEP ;-) Similar in story and more
important similar in care for detail to achieve a great underwater
adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Walker and Jessica Alba play a struggling young couple living in
the Bahamas. Friend Scott Caan shows up with latest girlfriend Ashley
Scott, and when the four go diving they find buried treasure. Not only
do they find a recent plane crash filled with drugs, but also a long
lost pirate ship rumored to contain gold. "Into The Blue" is
wonderfully shot, with beautiful scenery of the water and diving, and
it's barely dressed actors. The film drifts around for it's first hour
or so without too much going on. Most of the movie at first consists of
the two couples arguing over what to do with the lost treasure. Caan
and Scott, playing the selfish couple want to take the drugs
immediately, while the more responsible couple(Walker and Alba) want to
go about things the right way by filing a claim. Then the film really
picks up at the end leading to a very exciting, and surprisingly
violent final half hour.
