
Absolutely terrible. Unbelievably bad. Not the least bit funny.
Moronic, extremely lame jokes, terrible acting, no plot at all worth
mentioning, a perfect example of the decline of Hollywood films. After
10 minutes you will be pulling out your hair. The lines are so bad
Ernest wouldn't have used them.

The first movie (Whole 9 Yards) was witty, humorous, and surprisingly
good. Everything worked. Perry was particularly effective as the
bumbling dentist whose wife is out to get him. Willis was great as a
serious hit-man who doesn't want to be sequestered away in Canada. And
both Peet and Henstridge were effective in their roles as an
enthusiastic yet green hit-woman, and a mobster's wife (respectively).
But this movie??? It had none of that. There was not a single memorable
moment, nor anything that would even evoke a chuckle. The physical
comedy was very forced, and incredibly obvious. The jokes were just
plain terrible. There was no direction, this movie meandered all over
the place. The whole bit with Willis pretending he liked to keep house?
That was simply idiotic.

This movie was so bad it makes Charlies Angel's 2 look like a
masterpiece, and that is really an impressive feat. It is hard to
imagine how after the first one which was such an effective comedy, the
same team could churn out this complete and utter crap. It boggles the
imagination. It is actually hard to think of worst sequels, or at least
ones that were so much more terribly bad than the original actually
good film (if both stink, that doesn't count); CA2 is the best example
I can think of but then again the first one was nothing to write home
about. How about Jaws 4? Friday the 13th 27? I really can't think of a
more disappointing film, particularly after the promise of the first 9
Yards.

Terrible, absolutely terrible. Should be retitled "The 3 stooges get
Lazlo", except that would be an insult to the stooges. My advice? Rent
the first one and pretend this one was never made.
<|_=00=_|>
After the fun time I had watching The Whole Nine Yards, I was looking
forward to seeing The Whole Ten Yards. But I watched it last night and
I was pretty much disappointed with where they took the story. It just
seemed like they took the characters and turned them into something
completely different. For me, I'm such a Bruce Willis fan, so when I
saw him growing and acting like a bull while he was drunk in one scene,
I didn't laugh, I actually wanted to cry for him, it was pretty
pathetic what they did to this cool, smooth, charismatic hit man that
we knew and loved in the first film. The script and story was just up
to par like the first film was, in fact, I would've appreciated it if
they just left The Whole Nine Yards alone if they really felt like this
one had a chance for a great comedy.

Jimmy has changed from this tough guy hit man to a Martha Stuart and
Jill is not happy with it. Oz and Cynthia are in a quiet life in hiding
from the gangsters. Lazlo is out of prison and wants revenge, so he
"kidnaps" Cynthia and now Jimmy, Jill, and Oz get together to save her
only to find out there are more twists and turns than they expected.
But Jimmy has to go deep back into his roots of being the tough guy,
not Mr. Clean.

Now don't get me wrong, The Whole Ten Yards has a few laughs here and
there, but for the most part I just actually felt bad for Bruce Willis
with the silly attempt to be a soft like Martha Stuart type of guy,
he's just such a great tough guy, it's hard to see him as anything
else. Matthew Perry wasn't as fun as he was in the first movie and
neither was Amanda, it just seems like everyone lost their magic and
chemistry with each other in this film. I really wish that I loved this
film, but I'm having a hard time, I'm sorry.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
An unnecessary sequel if there ever was one finds bumbling dentist Oz
(Perry) now happily married to Cynthia (Henstridge), until she's
kidnapped by vengeful mobster Lazlo Gogolak (Pollak) and his Hungarian
crew who know that former associate Jimmy Tudeski (Willis) is still
alive. Not capable of getting her back by himself, Oz enlists the aid
of Jimmy and wife Jill (Peet); she's anxious to get back into the game,
but unfortunately he's put the old life behind him in favor of staying
at home and obsessing over the cleanliness of his surroundings. The
same cast that brought so much life and energy to The Whole Nine Yards
flounders in this embarrassingly unfunny follow-up where the film's
ridiculous story throws out one silly plot twist after another and an
abundance of desperate gags. At times the actors appear as if they're
begging for help. *
<|_=00=_|>
When Oz's (Matthew Perry) new wife Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge) is
captured by the mob, he is no one else to turn to but his old friend
Jimmy the Tulip (Bruce Willis). Teaming up with Jimmy and his new wife
(Amanda Peat), Oz experiences another crime filled adventure with the
mob.

Although not nearly as funny or as exciting as the original, The Whole
Ten yards will surely entertainÂ…for the most part. About half of the
movie is clever and entertaining and would have deserved my
recommendation, but the twist at the end is terrible and made the movie
seem worthless. After the twist, follows a ridiculous display of events
that are horrible, making the movie in my opinion a failure but still
not absolutely terrible. Overall, the movie follows in the footsteps of
an entertaining comedy but falls short of what could have been.

I do not recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I found The Whole Nine Yards to be a surprisingly fun film, which
worked thanks to its engaging plot and interesting characters. One
thing I didn't think the film needed was a sequel; but I decided to sit
down and watch it anyway, and to my surprise; it's a lot better than I
thought it would have been. I can certainly understand why it hasn't
received glowing praise; as many of the jokes are recycled and the
whole film does feel like an excuse to give the likes of Mathew Perry
something to do. That being said, original script writer Mitchell
Kapner has managed to put together a film that makes good use of its
absurd plot and characters, and somehow manages to be enjoyable despite
feeling completely superfluous. The plot this time starts when Oz's
wife Cynthia is kidnapped by a Hungarian mob boss. Oz decides to
contact Jimmy the Tulip; Cynthia's ex-husband and hit man to help get
his wife back from the mob. Along with Jimmy's wife and aspiring
assassin, Jill, the trio attempt to thwart the mob boss, and help Oz
get Cynthia back.

Just like the first film, this one relies on the talents of its lead
stars to pull it through. Matthew Perry's wisecracks are mostly
amusing, and he is in his element the wrong guy in the wrong place at
the wrong time. Amanda Peet is still naive, and sexy, as the aspiring
assassin; while Bruce Willis sleepwalks in a role that is a spoof of
what he's used to doing. Kevin Pollack chews the scenery with his silly
accent, but provides some laughs; and just like the first film, Natasha
Henstridge is the spare wheel. The plot isn't very well done, as it
mostly features the lead stars hanging around and waiting for someone
to shoot at them; so it can become a bit boring. However, the film is
never far away from a one-liner or comedic set piece to keep it moving
and there are a number of big laughs. Sequels like this often don't
work; Ocean's Twelve being the case in point, but I'm pleased to say
that The Whole Ten Yards isn't a complete waste of time as it delivers
what you would expect of it. It's not particularly deep or clever, but
the film offers a fun time and the ending is rather well done.
<|_=00=_|>
The Whole Nine Yards was one of my favorite movies of all time!
Absolutely hilarious. However, this movie was really a downfall. The
characters were horrible. Bruce Willis' character becomes entirely too
false. The new mobster group just irritated me every time I saw them on
the screen. Matthew Perry is the only one to deliver a true
performance. He's great! The plot line of this story is no good. It's
incredibly dull, and not really fun. There were, as expected, a few
really great parts to make the film alright. I did laugh here, and
there, but I did regret renting the film. What a bummer. If you're
looking for a movie that has nothing, you found it. However... But I,
very regretfully..., would not recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked the Whole Nine Yards. Perhaps a little overdone, but
very enjoyable. And Natasha Henstridge was gorgeous! The Whole Ten
Yards was a disappointment. The plot was a retread, and the chemistry
between Jimmy and Oz was watered down from the first movie. And as
others have pointed out, Bruce Willis' crying was both poorly done and
poorly conceived. Also, Jimmy's rotten behavior towards Oz and his wife
was so out of character from what was established in the first movie,
and his bizarre behavior in the beginning was inadequately justified.
Furthermore, Kevin Pollack was more incomprehensible in this movie than
in the previous one, which is saying something. I actually regretted
seeing this movie, because it to some extent spoiled the nice feeling I
got from watching the first one.
<|_=00=_|>
Bruce Willis acting like Martha Stewart is not funny. When the MPAA
tamed down the sequel to PG-13 ('The Whole Nine Yards' was R), they
lost all the humor too. The first one was surprisingly good (Amanda
Peet stole the movie). Matthew Perry was funnier in the original (like
Chandler in the first few seasons of 'Friends') but in the sequel, he
is lame and unfunny (like Chandler after he gets married). Speaking of
'lame', the bad guy in this movie is incredibly annoying. I generally
like Kevin Pollak, but he was unwatchable here...and so was the rest of
the movie. I haven't seen such an unnecessary sequel in quite a
while...
<|_=00=_|>
The Whole Ten Yards (2004) is a comedy dead zone. You watch in complete
disbelief as scenes appear on the screen and die. Every moment in this
movie, begs for a single laugh, and it's as if the actors- -some who
were all so promising in the original film, The Whole Nine Yards
(2000)- -were promised big paychecks if they were able to tag along
with the film's script.

The Whole Ten Yards assumes that the viewer has some familiarity with
the first movie. Bruce Willis returns as Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski,
who's now living in obscurity with his wife, Jill (Amanda Peet). Both
are having problems in their marriage due to (a) Jimmy's erectile
dysfunction, (b) Jill's inability to fulfill her lifelong ambition to
become a contract killer and (c) Jimmy's transformation into a
male-like Martha Sterwart.

Meanwhile Nicholas "Oz" Oseransky's (Matthew Perry) finds that goons
have kidnapped his wife, Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge), and that they
are led by Lazlo Gogolak (Kevin Pollak), the father of the mob boss
(also played by Pollak in the original), who was eliminated in the
original film. Oz tracks down Jimmy and convinces his old pal to give
up cooking and house cleaning and help him in a rescue attempt.

Warner Bros. has been unsuccessful in making mobster-comedy movie
sequels. Analyze This (1999) was a funny film, but the idea to make a
sequel was unnecessary. The sequel, Analyze That (2002), was an attempt
to stretch an idea beyond its natural shelf life.

But you have to wonder why the filmmakers felt it was a good move to
make a sequel to The Whole Nine Yards, or why Matthew Perry, who is
playing Chandler (from "Friends") again, is unlikely to have a movie
career, and why the film has been toned down to a PG-13 rating (the
film cheats us of another view of Peet's breasts).

Screenwriter George Gallo, on the DVD commentary, evidently has no
regrets. "I think this movie is very funny," he insists, "I wrote 80
pages of genius." Apparently the scathing reviews and paltry box office
have done little to humble him, as he adds, "It's like a homicidal
Three Stooges." 

When Hollywood lackluster sequels are meant to be made, Howard Deutch
is the man to call. He's responsible for Neil Simon's The Odd Couple II
(1998) and Grumpier Old Men (1995). Deutch has also directed John
Hughes-produced film such as The Great Outdoors (1988), Pretty in Pink
(1986), and Some Kind of Wonderful (1987). 

In The Whole Ten Yards, there is a scene that makes a reference to
Hughes' Planes, Tranes & Automobiles (1987), but let's just say that it
was more funnier when Steve Martin and John Candy did it.

But, if you don't laugh at that, there's Kevin Pollack (again) in one
of the most singularly bad performances I have ever seen in a movie. It
fails by calling attention to its awfulness. His accent, his voice, his
clothes, his clownish makeup all conspire to create a character who
brings the movie to a halt every time he appears on the screen.

There's also the propensity of a 107-year old woman able to pass gas.
Surely by now, you must be rolling in the aisles? No? Then, I will
mention that Bruce Willis' character is often unpleasant. He puts on an
apron and a head cloth during the early scenes, as if such a disguise
would do anything other than call attention to himself.

Deutch, on the DVD commentary, is quietly apologetic as he points out
all the things he wished he'd changed. "I was always sorry we didn't
cut this out, " he says of one scene, "I think the joke is over." And I
should mention that some of the film's elements such as the film's
violence (for example, a scene where a woman gets a slap to the face)
don't blend well with the film's light "comedy." And if you're planning
on seeing or watching The Whole Ten Yards someday, let me tell you,
it's not worth seeing for a whole ten bucks on the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
Not much nutrition here, I'm afraid. Kapner really stretches this stuff
thin - as thin as cardboard, and about as tasteless.

This time there are more borrowings - the hapless Perry plays it more
or less as Belushi's part in "The Man With One Red Shoe". Pollack wears
the Sopranos 'Uncle Junior' glasses, and he has nowhere to go but in
the direction of greater and greater excess. The gangsters and hit men
all have post-"Analyze This" issues.

On the plus side, Willis knows he has to mix things up, so he plays
this as though he's 'outside' the narrative, and 'in his own movie' -
playing it more between the movie reality and us. Peet competently
keeps up her end of the equation.

But this is beyond anyone's skill to save - not enough calories here to
thrive on.
