
Rest assured, Iron Man is an absolutely amazing movie. I won't dare
spoil any of this remarkable movie for you but I do recommend it as
highly as I possibly can. Marvel needed to get in to the solo movie
making business long ago. Instead of leasing out their characters to
other studios, they're making movies themselves. Most everyone knows
Iron Man is their first effort and what a great lead off film! This
movie helps take the comic book genre to the highest level. Just like
they did in the books, they reinvent standard epic adventure by
"Marvelizing" characters and making them more believable. The
Spider-Man and the X-Men movies did this to a degree but only as far as
their respective studios wished to stay true to the source material.
Anything added or amended was for the benefit of the live action
adaptation. Director Sam Raimi pulled this off by talking to the summer
crowd, not down to them with the Spider-Man series. Jon Favreau has
done the same thing here but I think he's done it even better. Raimi
intentionally threw in a little cheese. Favreau adds nice bits of humor
but not too much. He also grounds the action and the suit of armor in
firm reality. I've said it before but it's brave to reach for the
highest common denominator with a big budget film and Favreau delivers
a movie with as much feeling as it has action and intensity. Needless
to say, Robert Downey Jr. and company deliver the goods. It's a movie
that has a wonderful balance that delivers intelligence with its fun.

The amazing yet realistic action is paced by the plot and characters
that keep you interested from start to finish. What absolutely blew me
away were the phenomenal special effects. I know they built a
practical, working armor. What I loved is the use of CGI was used to
augment the real life armor and not create something from scratch. Most
all CGI constructs feel fake somehow but the stuff in Iron Man didn't
seem fake even for an instant. As great as everything looked, what
really drives the movie is the emotional resonance and down to earth
nature of the plot. Sure the concept is wild but it's all presented so
that you really believe it could happen. I doubt anyone will find fault
with this movie unless they went in trying to dislike it.

This is, without a doubt going to be one of my top 10 movies of 2008,
quite possibly the number one film.
<|_=00=_|>
As an avid reader of the Iron Man comics, I was excited but also very
scared that this movie would flop.

While Robert Downey is not the biggest name in Hollywood, he plays the
part perfectly and I was greatly impressed by how he portrayed Iron Man
so well.

The humor works well for this film also. It's well-written and has a
great cast.

What impressed me the most was the CGI! They're breath-taking, but
aren't distracting enough to let you miss the finer points of this
movie.

In conclusion, while not perfect, Iron Man lives up to its hype and my
expectations as a reader of the comic.
<|_=00=_|>
Fortunately, I'm not one easily influenced by some users' negative
comments. These people should try to restrain their bias opinions and
try to review the movies as neutrally as possible.

Now I would say that this movie has slow but steady momentum-building.
It is a movie for people who has never known Iron Man in the comic
series. The characters are given names and personalities, true to their
comic book counterparts.

Acting was among the best comic-turn movie I have seen so far. Effects
were believable and not overwhelmingly CGI, except for the tank scene.

This movie, however, has sequel written all over it. We know that
because there are many scenes that could have lead to more.

It's well worth its ticket price.
<|_=00=_|>
So the world premier of Iron man to regular movie going audiences
happened to be here in Seoul Korea on an army installation. I got to
check it out and I was delightfully surprised.

Much against the hype, I thought this movie would have been torrid
trash acting mingled with cheesy fight scenes. I mean Robert Downey Jr
as an action superhero? But I am glad to admit that I misjudged the
movie completely. Downey played a very good Tony Stark, in generally
every way. From his jokes to his obnoxious lifestyle he looked and
walked the part very well. His banter with his right hand assistant Ms.
Pepper Potts isn't mind numbing and actually found myself laughing
aloud at some of the wit.

The movie itself moved at a very good pace. Mixing action, comedy and
some drama to just about the right proportions. As with most superhero
movies, its rather predictable, but in all the right ways you'd want a
superhero movie to be. The animation used was almost seamless, and of
course the Iron Man costume was kicking major ass.

My only gripe with the movie was the fact that several characters were
thrown into the mix with little behind them other than 2D character
attributes. Leslie Bibb's character, Christine Everhart, is pretty
useless other than the two or three lines she has. Hardly worth a
hardbody like Leslie Bibb to play. Several other characters didn't feel
fleshed out at all. Raza (Faran Tahir), Obediah Stone (Jeff Bridges) ,
and even Jim Rhodes (Terrence Howard) feel hollow in the fact that they
have little justification for many of their actions.

So All in all, I'd give this movie an 8.3. Fun for the whole family,
great pacing, and a Superhero movie to give the next Batman movie a run
for its money.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW WOW WOW.

This is the movie I have been waiting for for a very long time. I am an
avid Ironman reader. I have collected the comics all my life (from #1
in 1968 to the latest in 2008)...40 years of Ironman. Since I was a
kid, I used to say to my friends that they should make an Ironman
movie, but everyone laughed and said that the special effects would
look ridiculous...mind you, that was back in like in the early 1980's.
But, now we are in the age of CGI, and what an age it is. Just for you
Ironman fans, to see him come to life with such spectacular graphics is
reason enough to spend your hard-earned $10. The plot is also pretty
well thought out, and the acting is just fine. What better pick could
you have for Tony Stark than Robert Downey Jr.? (just wait for the
sequels when they can delve into his alcoholism...Mr. Downey has been
there and beyond...that's probably why they chose him for the
role...fore-thought)The rest of the cast is right on par, as well. The
pace is brisk, and the whole thing works as a great addition to the
Marvel Universe in the Cinema!! Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
There was a big question mark looming over the theatrical adaptation of
Marvel's Iron Man property. It was in the guise of director Jon
Favreau. Now, don't get me wrong, I love the Favs, but when I heard he
was helming a big budget comic book flickÂ…let's just say I was a little
worried. Once his cast was set and the fanboys started humming across
the internet I started to ease into the decision with high
anticipation. Thankfully, after finally seeing the finished product, I
was not disappointed in the least. With a great mix of the
professionalism and stakes seen in both Spider-Man and X-Men and the
comic wit and sheer fun of Fantastic Four, Iron Man shows how a comic
can be brought to the screen successfully without all the added drama
and weight. We finally have a film with the essence of what makes these
picture books so popular, the action and mythology along with a sense
of adventure and humor. Favreau never bogs us down with overwrought
emotions nor speaks down to us with gags and poorly written jokes.
Instead he delivers on his promises and gives us a solid initiation
into what could be a great trilogy or more.

Favreau seems to have had an idea to get an origin story out while not
boring us with long drawn out backstory. His ability to give us dual
information at once is nicely orchestrated, showing Tony Stark in his
basement creating while the TV in the background explains what is
happening in the outside world of the Middle East and inside his own
company. We as an audience are allowed to put the pieces together
amidst the witty banter of Stark and the wonderful special effects. By
the end of the film it is quite amazing how much information you will
realize you now know, all culminating in a decent final battle, but
more importantly a segue into the inevitable sequel. We are allowed
entrance into the character evolution of Stark as he goes from war
profiteer to man of action and cause, all while seeing the technology
improve and advance before our eyes. Much like Batman, we have a hero
here that needs help in fighting crime. He has no superhuman abilities
besides his brain and being able to see his thoughts go from paper to
reality is a feat of magic. Every stage is shown, every failure and
success. It's quite the ride in and of itself, but when you add onto it
the threat of global war and destruction, it can only get better.

The real success here is in the bold move of casting an actor over-40
to be a superhero. This takes guts, because no matter how appropriate
it is, most studios would have said, "no, change the story and make him
younger so we can churn out as many of these babies as we can." I don't
know how he did it, but Favreau got Marvel to get Robert Downey Jr. to
play Stark, a sarcastic lothario with the brain capacity of Einstein. I
truly can't think of anyone better suited to the role and he proves it
by nailing every single scene. I'm sure there was some ad-libbing, but
even if not, his comic delivery and ability to switch on a dime to a
sincere seriousness at will shows his masterful craft.

As for the rest of the cast, they all do well. Jeff Bridges plays the
bombastic creature of villainy over-the-top, but appropriately so;
Terrence Howard is nice as the friend and military liason, not given
much to do, but definitely sowing seeds for the future; and Gwyneth
Paltrow is good as the sweet assistant Pepper Potts who at times seems
a little underwritten and more female prop than anything else, but
comes through with some nice moments in a very comic sort of way. I
also really liked Shaun Toub as Yinsen, Stark's savior, and Clark Gregg
as the head of S.H.I.E.L.D. Good to see Favreau giving another actor
turned director props, (Gregg's directorial debut comes out later this
year in the form of Chuck Palahniuk's Choke). I just wish he would have
shied away from putting himself in the film. It's one thing to be seen
split-second, (like Stan Lee), but its another to give yourself a
thankless role with multiple scenes, just adding fuel to the fire on
people's opinions of egotism stemming from the drinking game created
off of the TV show "Dinner for Five" and how many references to
Swingers was made each episode. I'll forgive, though, because, once
again, I'm a big fan.

One can't forget that this is an action film above all else, so we
can't just praise the actors; every effect is also quite brilliant.
Those scenes of Iron Man flying amongst fighter jets in the trailer
seemed really lame, but when in context they deliver. The suit itself
is amazing as well, through every mach stage right to the end. My main
highlight, however, was with the computer systems that Stark utilizes.
The multiple screens, instant holographic reproductions, and ability to
actually interact with those 3D representations is stunning. We can
create them in fantasy, but it's just too bad we can't yet in real
life.

Now Iron Man is not a perfect film, nor even a perfect comic book
adaptation. What it is, though, is a fun, comic actioner that should
light up the box office. The final showdown is a bit of a whimper in
comparison to the backstory and machine creation; a crucial element is
saved from destruction in the one contrived bit of screen writing, (not
quite utilized in the way I thought, although still for the same
means); and some moments seem a tad campy rather than witty, but
otherwise this is some topnotch cinema that should definitely be seen
on the big screen. I can't wait to see how the story progresses in a
couple years.
<|_=00=_|>
With a little tinge of shame and regret, my rare dalliances with the
Iron Man character stemmed from a few one off comic books, as well as
occasions during the teenage years of spending time in the arcade with
those Marvel games, where Iron Man was one of my preferred characters
because it came together with his incredible arsenal of weapons from
repulsor beams to this gigantic cannon which accompanied the execution
of some complex combo moves. There's something sexy about the red and
gold suit of armour, and having an array of weapons at the disposal of
a player, makes perfect sense for variety in dispatching your enemies.

This may irk the fervent fans of Iron Man, but face it, the superhero
belonged to Tier B where superheroes are concerned, languishing behind
easily recognizable peers who already have movie after movie being
made. But thanks to the advancement in digital technology, bringing
Iron Man to life no longer consisted of the prospect and worrying
thought of having a man running about in a rubber suit passing it off
as metal, the way Ultraman would have been done, complete with
mechanical clicks and whirrs as sound effects to try and fool the
visual sensory. Here, we have a very detailed rendering of the entire
design from scratch to final modification, and we're in at every step
of the way, with many cheeky and sometimes a tad implausible scenes
just for cheap laughs thrown in.

I thought Iron Man the story worked because of stark (pardon the pun)
similarities with Batman Begins, also an origin story which took its
time to dwell on the man behind the suit, nevermind at the sacrifice of
having less action sequences, or by not giving the fans what they want
through the showcase of more than the basic powers. Advanced
capabilities can always find room in the sequel, and as the first movie
used to establish its characters, I felt that it succeeded, given too
that it had a cast of capables (just like Batman Begins had) to pull
the movie through without resorting to over the top and campy
performances, starting of course with the lead in Robert Downey Jr.

In a nutshell, Downey is Tony Stark through and through. His affinity
for the character shines, and no doubt it bore some parallels between
his own personal, and Stark's life in the narrative future when he hits
the bottle. He was allowed to become a Two-Face of sorts, on one hand
being and later acting out his flamboyance self whose mission in life
was the continuation of his father's legacy of Stark Industries, a
weapons conglomerate, versus his personal mission in ridding his own
weapons from the hands of the bad guys, now updated to be freedom
fighters in the Middle East. The dialogue contained within each scene
of Stark's, except perhaps during captivity, is full of one-liners done
in double quick time, you probably would think it boiled down to a
whole host of natural ad-libbing.

But while Starks spends significant amount of time in his unsecured
basement building his masterpiece, his human interaction come in the
form of faithful secretary Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow) who actually,
for the first time I admit, looked really good on screen as Stark's
most trusted aide, bringing about some serious spark of sexual tension
and chemistry between the two characters of opposite sex, more so than
any other comic book movie I have seen. And good friend from the air
force Jim Rhodes (Terrence Howard) complete the circle of trust who
knows of Stark's secret identity, and you'd be keeping your fingers
crossed at the toss of a teaser of a certain War Machine appearance
should the sequel be out. 

Who's the main villain in the movie? It points the finger at
Corporations, or at least here, the weapons manufacturers and the shady
deals that go through in the name of profit, the sole objective for any
corporation's existence. And Jeff Bridges, in a rare villainous role,
got to personify that greed and wrestle for absolute power just like
the trailer already suggested. While his performance is refreshing as
he disappears behind the ball head and bushy beard, you could see his
motivation and how the plot would have been developed to introduced the
ultimate fodder for Iron Man to duke it out in a, sad to say, ordinary
finale which any audience would probably be able to stay a step ahead.

As mentioned earlier, there are plenty of similarities with the Dark
Knight of Gotham in Christopher Nolan's reboot, but more so because of
properties inherent with the likeness between Bruce Wayne and Tony
Stark. Both are incredibly wealthy to devote time outside of the day
job to pursue their "hobby", both have to suffer personal tragedies in
order to wake up to the cruel world, and in the movie, both fall prey
to the corporate raider type, spend time perfecting their suit of war,
have assistants they would trust their lives with, and of course save
them from impending doom, and a finales set at their facilities.

But Iron Man is still a special effects extravaganza offering a thrill
ride especially when he goes into battle mode, and without a doubt,
Robert Downey Jr probably should be credited for raising the profile of
this once Tier-B character, to perhaps becoming more recognizable now,
and obviously, expanding the fan base of this weaponry filled suit of
metal, which of course, in this origin movie, we were only given a
glimpse of its potential. can everyone now spell sequel and clamour for
more please? Iron Man has set the bar for the other upcoming comic book
movies to try and surpass this summer season!
<|_=00=_|>
All too infrequently, a much hyped blockbuster hits the mark with such
power that it resonates above all others. Mark my words, Iron Man is
such a movie. I've been privileged enough to view an advanced screening
and, honestly, it's the best big budget movie that I've seen in many
years. It hits a high standard of excellence for mass audiences by
combining humor, a smart plot, breathtaking action sequences, a heavy
dose of self discovery and realization, betrayal, forgiveness, love and
puts it all together in one amazing package. The special effects and
CGI are probably the best I've ever seen in terms of relatable effects.
They're not over the top and don't overwhelm your senses. What's even
more remarkable is this movie will surprise a lot of people with its
depth while sacrificing none of the fun. The inner turmoil worked well,
the beautiful thing is that we can relate to each character, especially
that of Tony Stark. Stark's indomitable charm mixed with his flawed
character makes this hero more interesting then most. Iron Man delivers
action with great emotional moments and a movie that lives up to all
the hype it has generated.

The cast is obviously stellar but that doesn't always mean greatness.
(American Gangster, Street Kings anyone?) I'm happy to say this amazing
cast delivers in every way. Downey himself delivers one of the greatest
performances in a comic adaptation film EVER. Maybe it's because the
character itself is one of the most complex and intriguing that any
genre has to offer but that doesn't diminish just what a home run
Downey has hit. They took the character seriously but still remembered
to include fun and humor. I almost can't convey how much I enjoyed his
performance.

Minor SPOILER....

My only real complaint is the rumor of a Sam Jackson cameo was not
fulfilled. He is even listed here as playing the character of Nick
Fury. He did not appear in the cut that I saw. After browsing, it's
been offered that his cameo was probably just removed for the early
screenings. I hope that's true and they put it back for the final cut.
This means I'll just HAVE to see this movie again. LUCKY ME!
<|_=00=_|>
From the first moment Robert Downey Jr comes on screen as Tony Stark,
you know that this movie can't go wrong. We are in some desert in
Afghanistan and wisecracking Stark tells something about his playboy
life to some soldiers. Yes, this ain't no nerdy Peter Parker or
tortured Wolverine. Our hero is a person who generally enjoys life (and
women) and has no second thoughts on how he lives it. Without any
doubt, of all the superheroes that exist, Tony Stark is the coolest
person there is! 

But of course his bubble bursts when Stark is kidnapped by terrorists
and forced to reproduce his killing missile, the Jericho. The sacrifice
of a fellow scientist makes him humble and after his spectacular escape
Stark decides to better his life. No more manufacturing of weapons for
Stark Industries. From now on Stark wants to help his fellow men.
Although this decision impresses some (like Stark's secretary Paltrow)
it also infuriates others (like Stark's partner Jeff Bridges). This all
leads to a action-packed finale in which Iron Man must face a deadly
enemy...

Iron Man is the big Robert Downey Jr. show. Downey not only brings
humor and flamboyance to his role, he also manages to make you believe
that an egocentric person can indeed change into a real humanitarian.
The scene in which he realizes that someone is willing to make a
sacrifice in order for him to escape is even a moving one. Well done.
Downey is really a great actor with great charisma.

But there is a lot more to Iron Man. There are four or five big action
scenes. The first four are so great (the escape from the cave and a
sequence involving an Afghan village) that the last one - the big
finale - disappoints a little bit. But that's okay. There are also a
lot of smaller scenes to be enjoyed, focusing on the relationship
between Downey and Paltrow and the development of the Iron Man armour.
Jeff Bridges is always great to look at, although his role could have
been played by several other actors. Maybe his storyline is the weakest
of the film. His betrayal is no surprise, but his early involvement in
this is hard to believe. 

Iron Man is a spectacular and funny popcorn ride that not only has
great action scenes, but also some great actors. Hopefully it will do
very well at the box office, because I can't wait to see Iron Man 2.
Enjoy!

PS: no Samuel Jackson in this version either!

8,5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Iron Man, the huge kick off to the big summer blockbusters of summer
2008, a great start. I have to say that originally I had my concerns,
when I saw the trailer, this movie looked way over done and Robert
Downy, Jr. as the hero? The guy is a great actor, but as a super hero?
I wasn't so sure, but I was able to see Iron Man today and all my
doubts were put behind me as I watched. This is one of best comic book
adaptations put to film in a very long time, since the original Spider
Man I think. The effects were not actually too over the top, only when
needed, but it gave that extra feel of a comic book. Robert Downy, Jr.,
I couldn't believe how well of a performance he pulled off, there still
is a little question of his casting, but he pulled off Tony Stark
seamlessly. This is a very entertaining action film and is such a great
blockbuster that is sure to please any film buff.

Tony Stark, rich, handsome, incredibly wealthy, has it all. He also
creates war weapons, when he goes to Afghanastan to introduce a new
missile, he is captured and told to create the missile for the
terrorists. But Tony has other plans, he creates a metal suit and
escapes, he goes back home and announces that he wants to retire and
close down Stark industries due to the violence he saw. But when he
learns that the weapons of his are in the wrong hands, he realizes that
maybe he could re-create a metal suit and become Iron Man, the
incredible machine to save man kind.

Iron Man is a sure fire hit that I'm sure you won't want to miss. It
has everything you could want for a comic book film: action, humor, a
great cast, romance, and ultimate effects that just get you excited.
Even the soundtrack gets you pumped up and ready to root for Iron Man.
The only complaint, as much as the action was cool, I wish it wasn't
the war on terrorism they used, I know it's part of the story, but it
hits so close, that it may seem inappropriate. The climax, a little
cliff hanger, but I'm already smelling a sequel for next year probably.
But Iron Man is a fun movie that all ages could enjoy, Iron Man is the
new Spider Man for 2008! 

8/10
