
I was torn while watching Bourne Supremacy. I'll just go ahead and say
this before I mislead. I loved this movie! Unfortunately one key aspect
just about dragged this film under the water. The camera was far too
unstable. It was obviously done intentionally by design choice, but it
was excessively overdone. Through action scenes that had you at the
edge of your seat, you'd just come to realize that you were only trying
to see what the heck was going on. This made these scenes a little hard
to enjoy. But not only was it the action scenes; even during quiet
still scenes the camera would always seem to be moving, and eventually
was giving me a headache. Just to serve as a warning, it's pretty much
like that throughout most of the movie, so brace yourself for an
adventure of epileptic proportions.

-- However -- The acting was close to brilliant in my opinion. I don't
think the casting for Jason Bourne gets any better than Matt Damon
because he fits the part perfectly. The rest of the cast all pretty
much played their parts well, so I am pleased to announce that there
aren't any exceptionally bad actors or actresses. In addition of the
immersive storyline, it created a much enjoyable film. For a sequel,
this actually surprised me because I enjoyed this movie as much as I
did the first. If you're into action flicks, this definitely will not
bore you. If you liked the first movie, then you'll most likely be very
pleased with the conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bourne Identity was one of those films that some people will love
for being different to the average action film, but others will hate
for it daring to be 'too' different. Unlike the majority of action
movies before it, the first Bourne film, despite having stunts and
explosions never put it's emphasis on them, as the focus was always on
the central characters and their use of brains, rather than brawn to
accomplish their goals. The sequel is basically more of the same, but
it's a welcome return in my opinion, as cinema needs films that are
different to the majority. It's also a good thing as I'm a big fan of
Matt Damon. It's unfair that he should continue to get lumped in with
Ben Afleck due to their friendship as he has a lot of talent and I
think that the fact he's gone for more art orientated films as opposed
to the dumb blockbusters his friend was drawn to like a moth to the
light shows that he has a genuine respect for cinema. He stars as the
title character; Jason Bourne, who, like the film itself is hardly your
average action fare. He doesn't utter one liners shortly before or
after blowing someone away, nor does he spend most of the movie trying
to look cool; espionage is the order of the day and it works very well
in the context of the film.

Because it's plot heavy, The Bourne Supremacy requires the viewer to
watch, and the large amount of talking goes some way to distancing this
from most other action movies. However, this could also be seen as a
bad point as it can, at times, hinder the movie in the excitement
stakes and make it difficult viewing for those that do like their
action. The movie spans across Europe to a number of different
countries including Germany, Britain, France and Russia and this keeps
it exciting as it allows the landscape of the movie to change
constantly and the film doesn't dwell in the same area. In fact, the
film is very efficient on the whole and it never overindulges in
anything, which compensates for the amount of talking and allows it to
be exciting. Despite it being more stealthy than most, time is still
found for a number of high-octane sequences including fist-fights,
explosions and a great car chase that looks as if it could have been
lifted straight out of Grand Theft Auto.

Overall, I would say that this is a slightly lesser film than the
original, but there is still much to like about it and fans of Bourne
will no doubt enjoy themselves. It's also recommended if you're sure
that every action movie since 1988 is a Die Hard clone...
<|_=00=_|>
The Bourne Supremacy is the sequel to the successful Bourne Identity
spy thriller. This movie, directed by a new director, is given a
different yet extremely exciting feel to it. The casting is still
great, with Matt Damon bringing a deadpan portrayal to the Bourne
character. Hes very good in this role, which commits a great success to
the whole of the movie. Supporting players Brian Cox and Julia Styles,
along with newcomer Joan Allen, all provide stellar support for Bourne.
The action is intense and really well done, and the plot is thrilling
and will surprise you quite a bit. The camera-work is extremely fast
paced, and overall it has a gritty, captivating style. With all of
these elements together, you got one great action thriller that in many
cases even surpasses Identity! Movies like this are hard to come by, in
todays times with many action pictures that just don't work and become
tedious. Ill give this near perfect- *** and 1/2 outs 4 Star's-
definitely see The Bourne Identity before this- don't fret: you will be
very entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
Bourne is an intelligent guy He's not Bond who relies on potential
gadgetHe has that cleverness to think on his feet, improvise, make up
a plan, and execute it with unbelievable talent, using nothing but
what's in front of him 

Matt Damon has got all the Bourne elementsgreat actions, really cool
ability, a great sense of immaculate timing and a little bit of
understanding thrown in too Demon's instincts are profound where the
given character is actually very gloomy 

Jason Bournean ex-CIA agent infused with violence, is a man who's
killed people in cold bloodAnd yet you feel he's at war with himself
Jason, is above all, emotionally truthfulThat's what director Paul
Greengrass have done hereIt's that feeling of realism, of
truthfulness 

The car chase is magnificent It is about desperation Jason has got to
get to his young woman's apartment to say sorry That was his only aim
in that moment 

Joan Allen brings that cool, cerebral intelligence to the part of
Pamela Landy She's a worthy opponent for Bourne 

"The Bourne Supremacy" takes us to real places in Europe like Berlin
where the East-West conflict was focused; to Moscow, a place of
uncertainty and peril and good fortune and to Goa, India's most
charming of state capitals
<|_=00=_|>
In The Bourne Supremacy, Jason Bourne is living a secret life with his
girlfriend Marie, still trying to discover who he is. When he is framed
for a crime involving the CIA, a hit-man is sent to kill him. This
causes Jason Bourne to respond to a previous threat he made...Anybody
from his past life that confronted him, he'd get revenge. He sets out
to find out what happened and why he's being blamed.

A lot of the principal players return for this sequel, and it's good to
see how their characters evolved since the first film. Some new
characters are present as well, and they are good additions to the
series. Matt Damon is even better as Bourne this time around, seeing as
he's comfortable in the role now. I really enjoyed Joan Allen in her
role as well.

The movie never gets too boring, and there is a nice blend between the
action and the drama. This movie also features one of the best car
chases since Bullitt. The only big flaw is the cinematography. The
camera whips around so fast in some scenes that you can barely see
what's going on. The movie ends with promise of a third installment,
and I personally can't wait.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Bourne series are, without a doubt, the Bond films of the 21st
century. What is even better is that they are the Bond we've been
waiting for: one without the cheese, sleaze, camp predictable villains
and cheap puns. This second installment in the series is a well-made,
engaging adrenaline-booster and surprisingly every bit as good as The
Bourne Identity.

Once again, we get to follow Matt Damon as Jason Bourne on the search
for his lost identity. He had initially planned on putting his past
behind him, but it sneaks up on him in the form of an assassination
attempt in Thailand - while he is enjoying his life with Marie (Franka
Potente). What I love about Franka Potente is that she is such a
natural beauty and not in-your-face gorgeous like Bond girls and the
like. It all fits with the low-key style of the film.

This film has mostly moved away from the flashy technology and violent
showdowns of its fellow action-thrillers. Bourne Supremacy instead
moves back to more traditional kinds of action, just like The Bourne
Identity did. Its focus is the chase, not the confrontation or the
gadgets. It is extraordinarily refreshing to see an action film like
this, even more when it accomplishes everything it sets out to do and
has so much brains.

The only minus to The Bourne Supremacy is its shaky, dizzying
camera-work. I know a lot of people have complained about this, and
usually I would disagree because this kind of cinematography can be a
good thing, but it goes slightly overboard in the film at several
points. 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Oh man, I say The Bourne Supremacy is much more thrilling than the
first one. The first one was like an introduction of Bourne and now
since we know the character, it is left with solid story and thrilled
feeling after watching.

The story follows after the first installation; Bourne fight back after
being framed by the Russian mob and now the CIA is after him.

What can I say; this is better than Bond series, with all the actions,
sophisticated car chase scenes, the cat and mouse chase and the tactic
between the killing machine and the world biggest organization. The
soundtrack is also great.

This is brilliant movie, somewhat surpass my expectation. I thought it
is like a B grade but this is definitely an A.

Recommended.

Rating: 8/10 (Grade: A-)
<|_=00=_|>
An outstanding sequel to "The Bourne Identity," this movie has a lot of
what I like: interesting European scenery, an involving storyline of a
man being pursued throughout the film; fun action scenes and very
little profanity. Plus, some great actors. Man, there's a lot to like
in this film!

At first, I was a bit lost. It helps to know the first movie in which
the "hero" is an ex-CIA agent who, having lost his memory, doesn't
recall who he is and why he is being hunted down by friend and foe
alike. There are a few great car chases scenes in here but some of the
other action stretches credibility as there is no way "Bourne" could
elude his captors as he did several times here...but it's fun to watch
anyway.

The herky-jerky camera style may put some viewers off but after I
adjusted to it, I didn't mind. It kind of added to the hectic pace of
the story. Matt Damon is very good in the lead and Brian Cox is an
effective "bad guy," easy to dislike. Karl Urban, a new face, also is
interesting as the Russian hit man, even though he has only a few
lines.

The is one of the few films ever to have Moscow as one of the location
sites. In fact, this Bourne two-part series so far is a like at
travelogue. Here in the sequel, we see India, Italy ,Germany and
Russia. 

Wonderful entertainment, especially if you are paranoid!
<|_=00=_|>
Rating: *** 1/2 out of ****

2004 boasted one of the better batch of summer offerings in recent
memory, and The Bourne Supremacy stood tall and mighty above the rest
(well, almost all, Shrek 2 was another great movie), proving that it's
still possible for Hollywood to make a gripping action thriller that
doesn't rely on CGI or gimmicky concepts. This film is actually
superior to its predecessor (a fine film in its own right), moving at
an even faster pace, delivering even more kinetically-charged action
sequences, and sporting a plot that's more intriguing and rife with
conflict.

Picking up two years later where the original left off, former
government assassin Jason Bourne (Matt Damon) is still trotting the
globe with his girlfriend Marie (Franke Potente), hoping he's put his
sordid past behind him. But at the behest of a mysterious employer, a
Russian hit-man (Karl Urban) tracks him down, killing Marie and leaving
Bourne for dead. There are even further complications, as Bourne has
been framed for the murder of two CIA operatives, thus pitting agency
deputy director Pamela Landy (Joan Allen) on his trail. As Bourne tries
to evade the CIA and discover the reasons for why he's been framed,
past memories continue to haunt him and may even bear connection to his
current dilemma.

The Bourne Supremacy is structured in much the same manner as its
predecessor, giving us an anti-hero who finds himself the target in a
mystery he must unravel, meanwhile trying to piece together his past.
In between the expository/character scenes are heaps of slick,
thrilling action scenes which, despite the familiarities in their
set-ups, are more than adequate proof that martial arts battles and car
chases can be exhilarating if executed with precision and a fresh eye.
The Bourne Identity accomplished such a task so effortlessly I feared
this follow-up would only seem like a pale imitation, but I'm glad my
apprehension was unfounded. Director Paul Greengrass surpasses what
Doug Liman accomplished, filming and editing almost the entire picture
with relentless energy through gritty camera-work and quick edits. 

Far and away the film's standout sequence is its climax. In fact, those
disappointed by Identity's lack of a big action finale will find little
to gripe about with Supremacy's concluding setpiece, one of the
wildest, most exhaustingly thrilling and memorable car chases ever
filmed. I don't usually give this much attention to just one scene, but
Greengrass brings everything together perfectly during this chase
through frenetic filming and editing and employing genuine automotive
stunts in favor of CGI-laden crashes. Only Zack Snyder's Dawn of the
Dead featured a more thrilling climax in any film this year.

But even with the first-rate action, what makes Supremacy such an
effective thriller is Matt Damon, who provides an unconventional and
even morally ambiguous but likable protagonist. Bourne is easily more
intriguing than both James Bond and Ethan Hunt combined. Should the
franchise extend beyond Damon's involvement, it'll be a difficult task
for his successor to match his work in the past two films. The
supporting cast doesn't have nearly as much to work with as Damon, but
acquits themselves admirably, particularly Joan Allen (looking more
attractive with each passing year) and Franka Potente.

The story admittedly boasts some questionable logic; why would Bourne
bother checking into that one hotel when it'd be much easier and would
draw far less attention to him if he just snuck in? I grant that his
move may have been intentional, but with more risk than was necessary.
I also have no idea how one of the film's villains (whose identity is a
surprise) planned on getting away with that murder he committed. But on
the whole, the plot is engaging and the mystery builds to a
surprisingly emotionally satisfying resolution. Here's to hoping The
Bourne Ultimatum can deliver just as terrific a mix of action, plot,
and suspense.
<|_=00=_|>
A supremacy over the Bond franchise, increasingly. Matt Damon reprises
an impressive, convincing delivery of a role well executed the first
time around. Dalton's efforts come closest, alas within the insuperable
cage of audience/exec. production expectation (and reasonably so, I
might add).

The equal star of this picture is the efforts of the director Paul
Greengrass. I stumbled on a televised doc-feature of this film a couple
of hours ago (the sort of thing that becomes a DVD special feature).
Greengrass pints to his work in documentary as a style and means of
getting closer to the principal character as he tries to discover (i)
who he is and (ii) what the ever-present forces are that cause his
mental and occupational Sturm und Drang. It all works - the hand-cam
and editing chucks us about and it's exciting trying, visually, to keep
up with Bourne's every move. There's next to no CGI (the aforementioned
documentary claimed none but I don't think that's possible these days)
so the interest stays with the characters and never strays into the
peripheral or wantonly spectacular.

The one downside with these production values is that one can get a bit
seasick at being in the centre of a fight/chase sequence - I kept
wondering why Greengrass doesn't put Bourne's heart rate up on the
screen as well for good measure. Anyway, the irony is that this film is
a Hollywood studio flick: two preposterously good looking spies (Karl
Urban's Russian nemesis to Bourne, Kiril, being the other) engaged in a
ripping thriller with a shady baddie and a handful of classy women. So
bravo to Universal's production hit-squad for not interfering with the
project (i.e. trying to work up non-existent sub plots or pointlessly
maintain A-ish-list screen time, etc.). 8/10
