
Clearly the reviewers who panned this wonderful film can no longer hear
the ringing of the silver bell. I am reminded of the know it all kid in
the film when I read these reviews. Some said it was too dark. Too
dark? It was set at 5 minuets to midnight.....As I recall its dark
then. Another called it ghostly; a condition true of a Christmas Carol,
the film is in good company there. While I will admit that the computer
motion capture in facial expressions is not as strong as it could be it
did not detract from the story. Some reviewers did not like the
roller-coaster effects. One even pointed out that trains can not do what
this one does.....It's a dream...physics don't count. It is a sad
commentary that the meaning of Christmas and belief in it's
historically documented magic is so lost on those with access to the
press. My review...it's good and it is best if you make up your own
mind. I could hear the bell ring and I hope you can too.
<|_=00=_|>
So it was with much trepidation and even utter fear in my heart that I
went to see this movie. After all, the last time I went to see a
full-length adaptation of a favorite Christmas story, what I got was
Ron Howard's absolutely God-awful "The Grinch". Having grown up with
the book "The Polar Express" (according to my mom, I cited it as my
favorite Christmas present when I was seven), I did not want to see
this story bastardized in any way. Honestly, I was prepared for "Polar
Express" to be a complete wreck. But insteadÂ… 

It soared. Completely. What makes the film such a success is not so
much even the story itself, but an execution which somehow manages to
inject every frame of the film with a feeling of childlike wonder and
exuberance. In addition, there are so many clever touches and details
added throughout that a feeling of mystery and excitement just fills
the viewer. Among these are the waiters dancing and singing while
serving hot chocolate to the kids on the train (a very funny scene, as
well), the factory where the presents are prepared, and a ghost-like
hobo who is never really explained, but is incredibly crucial to the
feel of the film. At one point, three of the children wander lost
through the empty streets of Santa's North Pole town. As they wander,
various old Christmas recordings are heard playing on phonographs
throughout the town. The music provides a pleasant and nostalgic
ambiance to the scene. It's touches like this that absolutely make the
film.

I'll never understand why films seem to be required to be at least 90
minutes long. I would pay money to see a 40-minute film, as long as it
were good. And even if it sucked, I would have at least wasted less
time. What I'm getting at is I have no idea why a 32-page picture book
needed to be a 99-minute movie. What this means is that the original
story is VASTLY expanded upon. However, what is added in actually fits
quite well with the essence and spirit of the book. Some of it is just
sheer entertainment; the train track is like a roller coaster,
characters ski on top of the cars, danger lurks around every step of
the journey to the North Pole (but admittedly fun danger). Other
aspects further illuminate and expand upon the book's basic theme of
the virtue of belief in the implausible. So I have no idea why this was
made into a full-length, but in the end, I'm glad it was. It didn't
even feel too long (and I think everything is too long).

Much criticism has fallen on the look of the characters in the movie. I
can agree to a point. While there is incredible visual detail in the
faces, they usually seem void of expression. In general, a lot of the
motion seems rather wooden, as well. The scenery, on the other hand, is
gorgeous. Overall, the minor problems in animation (which really boil
down to a matter of taste anyway) are certainly not enough to diminish
what is an overwhelmingly successful movie. Score: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
It was astonishing to read the lead in review. The complaint laid forth
by the critic that the director's view of the North Pole and Santa's
workshop did not reflect his, too bad. Maybe the critic could do better
but it's doubtful. As for the line that the Elven town looked like
something out of a German city, so what? Didn't many of the concepts of
Christmas begin in Germany? My family (two seniors, a twenty year old
father, his 3, almost 4, year old son) loved it. The colors were
brilliant. The number of elves dancing, singing, and rushing to create
an entrance for Santa was outstanding. Santa, himself, proved to be
exactly as he should. Intelligent, sturdy, and kind. His reindeer, just
as impressive. Forgetting the North Pole and remarking on the rest of
the movie, how well done! The artwork, just great. The excitement, our
grandson was out of his chair and standing while holding onto the
chair-back of the row in front of us. There were scenes that could have
seemed somewhat scary for a youngster, he didn't find them so. He
laughed several times out loud, had his eyes glued to the screen when
something serious seemed to be happening, loved the entire movie. He
wants the DVD for Christmas (he will have to wait a year). He also told
us that he wants to see the movie once more before Christmas. Out of
the mouth of a three year old, his favorite movie.

How can a critic want to re-design that? All because he didn't like the
city at the North Pole.? I guess he was looking for buildings made from
peppermint sticks. To each his own. As for the three adults, we too
were amazed. We went for our grandson. We enjoyed it so much, we
applauded (as did others in the theater). It will be easy to return for
a second showing. And, the DVD, this family will be buying more than
one. My summary states that this was the best Christmas story ever made
(put on film, actually), we think it was more than that. It surpasses
other great animated films. Once purchased in a DVD format, Toy Story
will be relegated to the back shelf, even during the middle of summer.
<|_=00=_|>
On the one hand there are many delightful moments in THE POLAR EXPRESS,
not the least of which is the entire look of the film--appealing in a
way that great illustrations of children's books always are to young
and old. Tom Hanks and the others enter into the spirit of the whole
thing with gusto--and all the performances are right on target.

On the other hand, much of the film is an excuse to dazzle with
roller-coaster-like rides on the express train that roars across
various landscapes making wild leaps and turns, all the while thrilling
us with a sense of adventure and excitement. For the very young, the
ride might be a scary one, especially when the daring young hero rides
atop the train during a blustery snowstorm.

Things barely quiet down once the destination is reached at the North
Pole. Still there are dangers lurking and the thrills continue with
some amazing photographic tricks that can only be done in this new
process of computer generated animation.

And to add a cozier touch to the proceedings, certain famous Christmas
songs are interjected at intervals to give the North Pole--and the
film--a warmer glow.

All in all, quite an imaginative and innovative achievement--impressive
enough to assure its place among future Christmas favorites with
unlimited appeal for the young in heart. The message of Christmas is
lightly hinted at but when Tom Hanks as the train conductor tells the
little boy, "The true meaning of Christmas is in your heart," we can be
assured that children everywhere will definitely "get it".

Visually, it's a stunner. I didn't see it on the IMAX screen where I
imagine it really knocks your socks off, but at a multiplex where
picture and sound were impressive enough to convey just how advanced
special effects technology has become. There is much artistry involved
here, especially when the night scenes of the train's fast-moving
travel through a blustery snowstorm capture some rich winter
landscapes, including a frozen lake that threatens to demolish train
and passengers before danger has passed. The camera-work is continually
fascinating as is the artwork involved.

A pity there couldn't have been more of a story in the children's book
which is the source--but the artistic visuals are the main source of
entertainment here and they are superb. The busy background score by
Alan Silvestri is reminiscent of works by John Williams. Although none
of the sprightly song tunes are particularly memorable, there is a
wistful quality to one of the new Christmas ballads sung by the
children.

P.S. - I have just watched it on DVD, a year after writing the above
review--and it's definitely a keeper--just as wonderful as you could
want, an amazing technological achievement that should delight all ages
who can still hear that bell! Tom Hanks, as the conductor, is my
favorite character--brilliant job.
<|_=00=_|>
A simple story . . . beautifully told . . . magnificently visualized.

The IMAX experience was stunning.

I did not expect to enjoy the story as much as I did. Simple but quite
heartwarming.

Although it started a bit slow, it continued to gain momentum (no train
analogy intended) through its conclusion. I was not a great lover of
the animation of the human characters, but the other animation, whether
it be the train, the scenery, the reindeer, or the elves (are elves
human?) was quite well done. 

Perhaps the best review I can provide is that after I watched the Polar
Express, I just felt happier.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I adored 'The Polar Express'. It was just the sort
of film I needed to truly get me into the Christmas mood. The story
revolves around a young boy, who is coming to an age where he is
doubting Santa Claus' existence, until the Polar Express- a magical
train destined for the North Pole- takes him and a group of other young
children on a journey to Santa and to reaffirm their faith in
Christmas.

I had reservations about the use of CGI animation since I felt it
really only worked for stories about cute animals but having seen the
film, the CGI was the best way to capture the spirit of the film. It
really wouldn't have worked as well in live action, the sense of
other-worldly magic would have been lost. And as it was, the artwork
was beautiful, especially the snowy mountainous scenery that the train
passes through.

This film took me back to my childhood and that tingly-feeling every
child gets on Christmas Eve in anticipation of Santa's visit. The story
was sweet and innocent without being nauseating, and I think every one
of us can empathise with the boy who wants to believe in Santa but is
growing away from the innocence of early childhood and faith in magic.
Much like Raymond Briggs' 'The Snowman', I predict 'The Polar Express'
will go down as a Christmas classic. It certainly makes a pleasant
change that this year's Christmas film was actually about Christmas and
I hope they make the re-release of this film an annual Christmas event.
<|_=00=_|>
The Polar Express delivered me all the way back to childhood and my own
faith in Santa Claus at the age of five. I could not only hear the
bells, I could see his sleigh in the night sky. Chris Van Allsburg is
to be commended for writing an excellent fantasy and Tom Hanks for
conducting the wonder tour to beat them all. The special effects are
just outstanding, the story line credible and heartwarming. The
characters are believable and utterly charming. The children depicted
are our own. I would recommend this film to any and all who love
Christmas and remember what it is to believe. The experience of
watching makes you a participant, breathless to see what comes next. I
can hardly wait to view it on IMAX and am taking my entire family,
including seven grandchildren to the Tulsa Cinemark this season. Let's
hope we see more of this quality venue in months and years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
"Wow!" 

I found myself saying this over and over as I watched this movie on DVD
went it came out just before Thanksgiving of 2005. It continually
amazes me how far computer animation has come in the last decade. Each
time I think I've seen the most beautiful or amazing artwork, something
better - like this - comes along. I couldn't believe how good this
looked on my flat-screen TV. I can't imagine how good it must appear on
an expensive plasma television.

The visuals are just stunning, scene after scene. The sound ain't bad,
either! Those not playing this on a surround system are missing an
integral part of this movie and a lot of fun. The roar of train as it
comes and goes, for one example, is awesome.

The story is very simple but yet entertains all the way with some very
adventurous scenes. There are a couple of roller coaster-type scenes
which were especially fun, and actually thrilling. Normally, 100
minutes is a bit long for me to sit through an animated film but this
was filled with so many amazing sights and fun action scenes that time
was no problem.

The only drawback I found were the kids in the story. Most of them were
not anyone you could really warm up to, except for the girl and she was
so overtly politically correct it was sickening and an insult to
anyone's intelligence. A black girl was NOT in the book but the
typically-Liberal filmmakers not only change that character but make
her the only one in the film with absolutely nothing wrong with her.
She's so sweet she makes Mother Teresa sound like The Grinch. None of
the kids in the film, however, were brats or annoying. The only funny
kid was the nerd, of course. 

PC baloney aside, this was fabulous entertainment. Tom Hanks did a
great job voicing over five characters and I've just simply never a
better-looking film than this.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was a glorious explosion of the hope and Wonder that fills
the memories of the Christmas of Olde. It was a well-detailed,
innovative, thought-provoking piece that reminded me of the
magnificence of belief in childhood ideals. 

The characters were well-fleshed-out and very easy to "know". The
animation was amazingly detailed and very life-like. The musical
numbers and side pieces (especially on the train roof) brought some
very effective morality and life lessons to the superb computer
animation, giving it that "touch" of humanity.

We all need to hold a piece of the fragile innocence rekindled in this
film near to our hearts and spread that unbridled, child-like joy in
the simple things in life to remind us of the good we all carry within
us.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a fleeting moment in THE POLAR EXPRESS where the title vehicle
passes a department store with an elaborate Christmas display in the
window. Everyone is excited by the sight, especially the story's
protagonist, "Hero Boy," until he sees the mechanical gears that reveal
the display's Santa Claus to be a machine. That's the problem with THE
POLAR EXPRESS, it is a splendid, wildly inventive machine, but it keeps
on reminding us that it, quite literally, lacks a human face. 

Based on Chris Van Allsburg's slight but textured children's book, the
film attempts to capture that book's subtle, albeit dark, visual tone.
And for the most part the filmmakers do a stunning job. The artwork and
animation, done largely with computers, is rich and detailed and often
about as close to lifelike as any animation that I have ever seen.
Therefore it is ironic that the remarkably high standards the film sets
with most of the animation and artwork only serves to highlight the
other aspects of the art that do fail so jarringly. The train, the
snow, the sweeping landscapes and even the animals such as wolves and
reindeer are all so incredibly meticulous in detail and movement, that
it only makes the failure of the artists to replicate the human
characters all the more startling and disappointing. The human beings
in the story seem trapped in a limbo, being neither quite cartoon and
certainly not quite human. 

It is strange that the animators do an outstanding job of recreating
skin texture and coloring and even the various subtleties of hair, but
can't quite recreate the most revealing aspect of being human, the
eyes. The mouth movements are disappointing too, but it is the eyes
that are, well, just plain creepy. Like the characters in Japanese
anime or the sad orphans painted on black velvet, these characters have
eyes that have a cold, spookiness to them. They are a mild, if
unrelenting, distraction in some scenes, but they quietly spoil many of
the major moments where the film strives for an emotional intimacy. It
is a serious problem when you literally don't want to look a character
in the eye, especially if the character is a child. 

The film uses a technology called "performance capture," wherein an
actor actually gives a three-dimensional performance which is recorded
digitally by a computer, to then be manipulated into animated art.
Performance capture is an extension of CGI and, as used in films like
THE LORD OF THE RINGS, further blurs the line between what is animation
and what is special effects. The process seems to work fairly well as
far as body movement goes; the animated characters move with genuine
lifelike grace that is far superior to previous attempts, such as the
animated action sequences in SPIDER-MAN or THE HULK. Indeed, a dance
sequence involving a band of hyperkenetic waiters is a showstopper. But
the process just does not work as far as detailing facial features. 

Cartoon humans from Elmer Fudd to Fred Flintstone are more simplistic,
yet more human than the waxworks faces in THE POLAR EXPRESS. Their
cartoonishness gives them a personality that is missing from the POLAR
EXPRESS characters. I suppose that as the technology progresses, the
ability to create totally believable human faces will be achieved to
some credible degree. But the question is why? It's like making vanilla
wafers with artificial flavoring; why seek a substitute for something
natural and superior. 

The director of THE POLAR EXPRESS is Robert Zemeckis, a clever and
skilled craftsman whose work includes the brilliant WHO FRAMED ROGER
RABBIT, a film that blends real and cartoon images wonderfully. THE
POLAR EXPRESS would have been so much better had they followed the lead
of ROGER RABBIT and, like SKY CAPTAIN AND THE WORLD OF TOMORROW, merged
high-tech trickery with the simple honesty of the human face.
Repeatedly throughout THE POLAR EXPRESS, I found myself wishing certain
scenes were featuring real actors; I can't think of any other time
where I thought a cartoon would be better as live action. 

Despite its optimistic Yuletide moral about the power of believing and
its child's eye view of the world, the film really isn't a kids movie.
THE POLAR EXPRESS has a Twilight Zone quality to it; not unlike the
many versions of A CHR1STMAS CAROL or IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE. The film
is dark, and even in its most upbeat moments the story and the
storytelling are strangely subdued. Not quite brooding or grim, but far
from joyful. While obviously directing the film towards children, the
filmmakers don't seem to understand kids. Little things are telling,
like failing to give the characters names other than generic titles,
like Hero Boy, Lonely Boy, Hero Girl, Know-It-All, etc. Such a lame
literary device as reducing a character to a nameless symbolic entity
is lost on children; they want to know people's names. Children can't
relate to nameless, faceless characters. Neither can adults for that
matter. Humans have names, and for that matter so do cartoon
characters.

Though it is seriously flawed, THE POLAR EXPRESS is still a remarkable
effort, visually stunning and ultimately even emotionally rewarding.
But no amount of artistic talent can capture the simple beauty or
honesty of a living child's face; it may have been folly for the
filmmakers to even try.
