
I found The Island to be highly enjoyable - a great Summer blockbuster
that isn't quite mindless. It raises a number of very interesting
questions...

Plenty of eye candy in every form, the two leads, the scenery,
explosions, action sequences, the cinematography, everything you would
expect from Michael Bay and Co. 

The pacing to begin with is somewhat slow as the premise is set up
(though disappointingly the trailers give it all away), but once it
launches into the first action sequence it doesn't let up for some
time. Yes the story has a number of plot holes but you can easily
overlook them and get swept away in the fun. I've never seen Johansson
on film until now and WOW, now I know what all the fuss is about. Her
and McGregor display enough chemistry to make their relationship
believable but only just. I'm sure this will only propel them onto
bigger and better things.

My one and only gripe was with the ending scene complete with cheesy
choral accompaniment - blech! Maybe Bay just couldn't help himself. I
suppose no film is perfect..

7 out of 10, solid, fun entertainment, what more can you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
I worked at Eworks when I first saw the trailer for "The Island." I
wasn't blown away by the trailer and neither was anyone I worked with,
mainly because we couldn't figure out what the hell the movie was
about. Several trailers and TV spots later, I still felt the same way
about it. The only thing about the film that interested me was the
cast. I really like Scarlett Johansson, Ewan McGregor, and Steve
Buscemi. So considering that there was nothing else out this weekend I
decided to give "The Island" a chance.

"The Island" is basically about the end of the human race or so we
think. The movie's basic storyline for the film is this: the human race
gets contaminated and there is this compound that rescues people and
decontaminates them. So all of the world's survivors live in this
compound with the ultimate goal of going to the Island, where everyone
can live a safe and happy life. However, Lincoln (Ewan McGregor) finds
that this compound doesn't make much sense and begins to question the
whole idea of the island. It isn't long before Lincoln finds out the
truth behind the island but just when he does his best friend Jordan
(Scarlett Johansson) gets selected to go to the island. It is now up to
Lincoln to save Jordan and the rest of the people in the compound from
going to the island and ultimately finding out the truth of their
existence. An intense and action packed film ensues 

Like I said earlier this film never really interested me but since this
summer is really lacking in films, I gave it a chance and I am glad I
did. This movie may actually be Michael Bay's move from all action to
action and story. While there are still some plot holes in the film and
the script could use a little fixing up, the majority of the film was
well done especially for someone like Michael Bay. The story was very
interesting and seemed pretty realistic. Sure it had a few far-fetched
action scenes but what's a summer action movie without them? But on the
whole it was action packed, entertaining, interesting, and thought
provoking film(wow who would believe that one day I could say that
about a Michael Bay movie).

I also never thought I would see Scarlett Johansson play in a Hollywood
action/thriller and from her scenes in the trailer it looked like I
never wanted to either. However I was pleasantly surprised by how she
pulled it off. She seemed to fit the role and was very good at it. But
if you ask me would I rather see her in big budget popcorn flicks or
independent films, I would still pick the independent films. Ewan
McGregor was actually good as well, and again I never thought I would
see him pull off a role like this but I guess that proves that both
McGregor and Johansson are good actors. It's was also fun to have Ewan
and Scarlett giving the film a few chuckles here and there. Steve
Buscemi is our comedic relief guy as well as the guy who basically
explains the whole island thing to us. He was good but I felt was cut
out of the film awfully fast.

Bottom line is that I was pleasantly surprised with the outcome of "The
Island." It was a lot better then "War of the Worlds" which basically
had all action and no story. This film doesn't have a perfect story,
but it still has one and has an interesting concept at that. This film
isn't going to win best picture any time soon but it's a good summer
blockbuster. The basic premise of the film to me seems very believable
in the near future. I just suggest buying the biggest popcorn and soda
at the theater and enjoy! MovieManMenzel's final rating for "The
Island" is a 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
In 2019, Lincoln Six Echo (Ewan McGregor) and Jordan Two Delta
(Scarlett Johansson) are best friends in a repressive and intriguing
society, where everybody expects to win the lottery. The prize is to
move to a paradisiacal island outside the domes that protect the
dwellers against the contaminated environment. Jordan wins the lottery,
and Lincoln accidentally finds the scary truth behind the utopist
award.

"The Island" is an original, intriguing and scary view of science,
ethic and society in a near future. Using elements of "Logan's Run",
"Matrix", "Gattaca" and "The Thirteenth Floor", among other sci-fi
movies, and non-stop action, it is a surprisingly great film. I liked
very much the amoral behavior of Dr. Merrick (Sean Bean), with a total
lack of ethic, and the possibility of replacement parts raised in the
story. Scarlett Johansson and Ewan McGregor shows a good chemistry, and
watching this sci-fi / action movie is worthwhile, even to think how
cloning process shall be discussed by the society and controlled
through well-studied laws. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "A Ilha" ("The Island")
<|_=00=_|>
I thought "The Island" was fantastic and just was a movie worth
watching. Ewan and Scarlett were just great together in this on the
seat thriller, the story was just very exciting. Especially since
cloning is such a huge debate right now, I know that it is going to get
more intense in the future. That's the story's main plot, cloning and
wither it's right or wrong of playing God.

The story itself just keeps you guessing and thinking with some very
great effects. I would without a doubt recommend "The Island" for your
viewing pleasure. It's a lot of fun, it's got excitement, romance,
action, and a plot that actually worked coming from Michael Bay. :D My
only complaint is the ending, which I choose not to give away, but it
leaves some room for questioning. Other than that, enjoy! 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I have every movies of Michael Bay, and I got to say  this is probably
his best. Though the story is nothing new and it has a lots (loads) of
resemblances of his previous work; I really enjoy watching it. But it
actually the actors (Ewan and Scarlett) who made this movie so
interesting.

Without this two actors I don't think I could enjoy it this much. They
are perfect with each other (though they're like 10 yrs apart). The
story is very believable and it also got great flows; though many parts
are just too brief and too many actions scene. I have to warn you  the
movie has a lots of gruesome scenes.

Anyway, I like the movie. And I highly recommended for you to watch.
Don't trust the US Box Office. As far as I concern it have done really
well around the world. This might not be the best sci-fi movie, but it
surely keep the audience ask for more pop-corn.

Recommendation: Michael Have Done It Right This Time.

Rating: 7/10 (Grade: B-) Please Rate My Review (Yes or No) After
Reading It  Thanks
<|_=00=_|>
I, and also my whole family, found this movie extremely enjoyable and
very underrated. I have to admit that I had't even heard of this movie
and almost passed it by, as soon as it started, I was glad that I
didn't. 

Because of the content of a lot of movies (ie. graphic sex and/or
violence) it can sometimes be hard to find a movie that the whole
family can enjoy without feeling uncomfortable (or falling asleep). I
found that "The Island" has everything I want in a movie, action,
adventure, comedy, and an extremely well written plot line, without an
overabundance of sex or violence.

I feel that this movie is well worth watching and highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
The Island is about the possibility, in the not too distant future, of
a clone farm, for lack of a better term. When dealing with clones,
especially in the movies, problems usually arise due to the lack of
knowledge in the area. In this particular movie, it does not give away
that they are clones too soon (unless you saw the preview). We are
eased into their predicament slowly, although something is quite
different and not right. At the beginning, I got sort of a Truman Show
kind of feel to the movie, as they are always being watched, either by
computers or cameras, and their lives are controlled in just about
every detail.

The clones are told that the outer world is contaminated and that the
only safe place left is "the island". The only way to get to the island
is through random lotteries where the lucky winner is whisked away to
their new paradise.

Lincoln Six Echo (Ewan McGregor) is the first of the "harvested
beings", as they put it, to start asking questions and even has
distinct memories that were not embedded by the corporation. While
wandering around, he soon discovers they have all been lied to.
Meanwhile, one of his closest friends, Jordan Two Delta (Scarlett
Johansson), has just won the lottery! Just as she is getting ready to
leave, Lincoln grabs her away and starts running.

The rest of the movie is pretty much a chase scene. One scene in
particular closely resembles the one from Bad Boys II. That is not a
bad thing, as it was still unique and fun watching the mass
destruction.

Both Ewan McGregor and Scarlett Johansson did a fine job in their
roles. Somehow, I do not remember Scarlett being as hot as she was in
this film but maybe that is just the movie magic. Either way, she has a
new fan. Also, Djimon Hounsou, Michael Clarke Duncan, Steve Buscemi and
Sean Bean did fine jobs with their roles. Duncan's role was pretty
small but his performance was very strong and relevant to the story.

I was reminded of many movies while watching this one. One scene, while
showing the harvesting, was closely resembling The Matrix. Also, one of
the reasons I liked this movie so much was the ingenuity involved with
inventions of the future. From innovated trains to literal desktop
computers (that was awesome) to cars and even to an X-Box, those little
things sprinkled all through the movie kept my eyes on the screen.
Similar to I, Robot.

Although I would not have considered myself a fan of Michael Bay, after
seeing this movie and realizing what other movies he is also
responsible for (minus Pearl Harbor), I can say that I like his work
and am looking forward to his upcoming Transformers project. 8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Island is the first Michael Bay movie I have seen and I really
enjoyed it. Far more entertaining than War Of The Worlds for example,
which I found quite boring. 

The story is pretty standard issue Sci Fi. Fine by me (I wasn't
expecting Bladerunner). It's a story of cloning and bad scientists up
to no good. It's a quest movie and a chase movie. It looks fabulous,
some nice toys to enjoy. The chase scenes maybe improbable but who
cares? It's not Hotel Ruanda (great by the way - love Don Cheedle!!).

You know, I actually found it quite touching and was definitely
invested in the well being of the main characters

Ewan McGregor is excellent, he is really fun to watch, he takes the
movie seriously and it works. He's a really good actor, why haven't I
noticed that before? Easy one the eye too which is always good. 

Scarlet Johanson is also good, she is lovely to behold and she also
turns in a good performance (though never with out lip gloss no matter
what) darned makeup people!. 

Djimon Hounsou doesn't have as much to do as the above (they are on
screen pretty much the whole movie), however,he holds our attention
when he is on screen, another fine actor.

If you want some fun, nothing too deep, that looks good and acting that
is entirely entertaining. If you enjoy the adrenalin rush of a good
chase and some epic destruction (like I do) this is your movie. Go.
10/10 for FUN.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked "The Island" quite a bit due for two reasons: a depiction of
the future which wasn't too "over the top", which was refreshing,
coming from Bay, and that the leads were very effective at portraying
their characters. McGregor, from his acting, and Johansson, from her
open, fresh expression. There could have been a little more exploration
of the cloning question, and I felt the action was, while visually
beautiful, mundane. The score was outstanding, the theme beautifully
matching the opening to the film. Pity there wasn't more of it. Sean
Bean, to those used to his villainous work in "Patriot Games", and
"Goldeneye", was a little weak, but due to writing, not his thespian
skills. And what's a Micheal Bay or Cohen Brothers movie without Steve
Buscemi? His character was relatively weak, with no real motivation
behind his actions in the film. Djimon Hounsou has a pretty good part.
Nice to see him carry a substantial role. One good reason to see the
film: great visuals, good looking people with consistent positive
ideals. Pretty to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie at the Detroit red carpet premiere on Monday, July 18.
In attendance were Michael Clarke Duncan and Djimon Hounsou.

The movie reminded me very much of Total Recall and The Matrix, not
only with the plot line, but with its intensity. This was a very good
summer action thriller. It was a little slow at first but once Ewan
McGregor and Scarlett Johansson's characters discovered that they were
clones, the action picked up immensely.

I was a little surprise about the lack of time Duncan was in the movie.
Hounsou did a fabulous job as the hired gun. I am not a Ewan McGregor
fan but I think he did a great job as Lincoln Six Echo and Tom Lincoln,
especially when both Six Echo and Lincoln were in the same scenes
together. Johansson looked good on the screen but her dialogue was
limited.

Steve Buscemi did an funny job in his supporting role as McCord, the
human buddy of Lincoln Six Echo. The scene when Johansson's character,
Jordan Two Delta, and McCord go through McCord's closet to find some
normal clothes for Johansson is a riot.

As parts of the movie was shot in Detroit (See when Ewan and Scarlett
arrive in L.A.), I was looking for shots of the Motor City. In this
sense, the movie did an excellent job making Detroit and "L.A." look
really snazzy. However, in two shots of downtown "L.A.", you will see
on the side of one of the buildings, a giant mural of Stevie Yzerman in
his Red and White Red Wings jersey. I don't know if this was a goof,
but it was interesting to think of why Yzerman would be on the side of
a building in L.A. forty years hence.

Overall, I give it a seven. If you are a giant action and science
fiction fan, you should not miss The Island.
