
I liked this movie. Sometimes a 'simple' movie can be colourful enough,
and entertaining enough, without having to be great or artsy. 'Kicking
and Screaming' was very formulaic. I actually found myself predicting
each step and outcome as the plot unfolded--- the adult abused child,
his dad, and his son, and the three generations colliding. The re-play
of the overbearing father thing, the adult man vowing to never be like
his father, but then getting accidentally caught up in the same dynamic
himself. then the sports movie redemption, etc., etc.

It sounds like a cliché, and it is--- but, oddly, I found myself more
surprised than annoyed as each cliché denouement surfaced. I kept
thinking, as the cliché loomed--- 'Nahhhh... they wouldn't do that.
There must be some slick tricky twist coming up.' Nope. No twists, no
tricks--- all the clichés play through exactly like you expected them
to. But there was a certain courage and honesty about that, which I
greatly admired. They had a simple, straight-forward, no-nonsense
formula story, which they played out exactly as that. It was very
honest.

Robert Duvall--- always great. Will Ferrell, always funny. Mike Ditka,
as an actor--- he's a great football coach.
<|_=00=_|>
Kicking and Screaming was decent. Will Ferrel plays the son of a dad
who WILL NOT lose to ANYONE (Robert Duvall). He takes over coaching his
son's Little League soccer team and goes nuts trying to win at all
costs.

Kicking & Screaming seemed like it wanted to be the Anchorman of kid's
movies, but it just lost me. There were some really funny parts, one
involving the team needing to help out at the Italian kids family
butcher shop, but overall, it just tried to hard to be a quirky movie
that adults and kids would enjoy.

All in all, not Will Ferrel's best movie, but definitely not horrible.
A good saterday night rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Will Ferrell has had a pretty decent film career after leaving Saturday
Night Live  much better than some of his contemporaries. His first
effort, "Old School," was hilarious and was followed up by "Elf," which
was even funnier. Later, he made "Anchorman" and most recently had the
best role in Woody Allen's uneven "Melinda & Melinda." Now it's back to
family comedy with the tale of a frustrated, milktoast father, Phil
Weston (Ferrell), the owner of a vitamin store, who decides to coach a
soccer team so his son can get in some playing time. Ironically, his
son, Sam, was dumped from his grandfather Buck's (Robert Duval) squad,
the champion Gladiators. Utilizing his father's worst enemy (and
neighbor), former Chicago Bears coach Mike Ditka as his assistant, as
well as two extremely talented Italian players (Francesco Liotti and
Alessandro Ruggiero), Phil's Tigers go on a "Bad News Bears"-type
winning streak. Of course, this is a family film, so when the gentle
Phil goes crazy with the intense competition (and his new found
addiction to coffee), he has to humble himself before his team  and
his son  and finally do the right thing when the Tigers meet the
Gladiator's for the title. Ferrell excels playing the goofy, sensitive
man-child, who finds himself becoming like his father, a sporting goods
mogul. Sure, there are the typical over-the-top SNL-like pratfalls (he
gets stomped by Buck in a violent tether ball game, beaten up by a
group of kids, spills scalding hot coffee on himself, etc.), but the
message is sweet, the children cute and the 90 minutes, for the most
part, very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a parent with kids in AYSO soccer, or a kid that plays(ed)
the game, then you'll love this mindless, uplifting comedy about a
coach going to the extreme to help his Tigers soccer team win. If you
expect nothing more than that, then you'll enjoy yourself and have fun
with this movie. The kids' soccer play has some real tricks, many of
which our own kids tried during the next Saturday game! Kudos
especially to Robert Duvall and Mike Ditka who really played their
parts well and added a lot of variety to the movie so that it is not
completely saturated with Will Ferrell (who also balanced his
father/son roles well). A great family flick enjoyed by all, even the
grandparents :)
<|_=00=_|>
'Kicking & Screaming' is pretty much a typical football comedy about an
underdog team that wins in the end. Nothing new here but the reason why
I watched it and enjoyed it was because of the cast. Will Ferrell is
fun to watch and a laidback Robert Duvall gives a funny relaxed
performance as the jerk dad with a comic touch. The beautiful Kate
Walsh plays the typical wife and mom and is pretty much there for star
value and eye candy. I also enjoyed the scenes with the kids. The Byong
Sun character was particularly funny. The film does occasionally derail
as Ferrell's Phil gets hooked on coffee and turns into a maniac coach
but then again, it made me laugh. Overall this isn't exactly a great
film and it has nothing new to offer but it's good time pass as it
draws some laughter. Perhaps that was director Jesse Dylan's intention.
<|_=00=_|>
It's strange how people look at Will Farrell movies & think Will is the
funny guy. Will is sometimes a weird guy (in fact in this soccer movie,
he is a weird coach). But in most movies, Wills best moments are making
others seem funny when they play off of him.

In this movie where the Bad News Bears do soccer in a way, Will Ferrell
makes Mike Ditka look good. He makes Robert Duvall look good. He even
makes the kids look good. Will is just pretty much himself, weird and a
little out of touch with reality. Make that a whole lot out of touch
with reality.

Still, the support he gets in this movie is priceless. The concept of
the team arriving late at a soccer game in a Butcher truck all wearing
bloody aprons is inspired. Some of the other things are creative & cute
too. The films end is predictable, but a little different. Overall, it
is entertaining for a young audience.

Mike Ditka should find some more movie work. He is pretty good in this,
& is missed when he leaves the film for a while.
<|_=00=_|>
If you rent and watch the Bad News Bears then watch this movie it will
pretty obvious the movie copied it almost completely. Several key
points in both movies..

1.In Bad News Bears a ex washed up baseball player coaches a very bad
little league baseball team, in Kicking and Screaming Will Farrel plays
a man who wasn't good at sports much to the letdown of his father
decides to take over a junior soccer team.

2.In Bad News Bears Buttermaker lets the team play as they want till he
see's how bad they are and decides to recruit some good players to help
them win, Phil a nice guy lets them play as they can, seeing how
disappointed his son is in not winning, lets Mike Dikta talk him into
recruiting two good soccer playing Italian kids so they can win.

3.Buttermaker starts to get very competitive and instead of letting
everyone have fun and play, gives his two ringers most of the playtime
and the other kids get left out, Phil makes a bet with his dad, gets
very competitive and puts everything on his two ringers and the other
kids get left out.

4.Buttermaker see's the error of his ways benches his two ringers and
lets the kids play,Phil see's the error of his ways and benches his two
ringers and lets the other kids play.

Basically take out baseball in the Bad News Bears, insert soccer and
make a few changes and you have Kicking and Screaming, most movies and
TV shows copy each other in Hollywood, shame when they do it as
blatantly as Kicking and Screaming does, watch the original Bad News
Bears a much better movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching this film made me remember when Mike Ditka was on the
sidelines shouting and swearing off his own players when they didn't
meet his demands. Will Farrel's performance was wacky and funny
considering the fact he was competing against his dad (Robert Duvall in
a nice spot). Anyone who likes soccer will find this film entertaining
for a change along with Bend it Like Beckham. The kids on all the teams
did their best on and off the field. If there would of been better
props, we could say this movie could equal Little Giants(1994), another
good comic sports film.Between a one two ten, I give a seven and a half
thanks to the director's effort to bring in Mike Ditka to help out.
<|_=00=_|>
Kicking & Screaming tells the story of a loving father and,Phil Weston,
(Will Ferrell) and the local children's soccer league. His son, Sam,
(Dylan McLaughlin) played on the team coached by Phil's father, Buck,
(Robert Duvall) until he was suddenly traded to the Tigers. Put simply,
Ferrell is awesome. At First Phil Weston is an insecure everyman who
has grown up in the shadow of his father, a and vicious coach of the
Gladiators Little League Soccer team.

The directing was decent, but also the acting was respectable. Will
Ferrell (Old School), is hilarious. He is seemingly comfortable with
films for all audiences such as Elf and the soon-to-come Bewitched.
Robert Duvall (Secondhand Lions) plays an excellent role as an
overbearing and competitive father. Also, the appearance from Mike
Ditka, tight end in the NFL from 1961 to 1972 and coach of the Chicago
Bears from 1982 to 1992, is a great accentuating ingredient to this
film.

Rated PG and has thematic elements, language and some crude humor. The
humor can be understood by younger pre-teens, but there is a lot of
wittiness that pertains specifically towards adolescents and older.
<|_=00=_|>
http://thedailyradical.blogspot.com Today's daily radical comes in the
form of a Wil Ferrel movie. Old School, Anchorman? We all know these
are radical already, no article necessary. I am talking about Kicking
and Screaming. Yes, a very controversial Radical selection. Radical
things can come in many different packages and this time it comes in
the form of a goofy family comedy.

Keep in mind I have a five year old son, so i am sometimes forced to
sit through some horrendously boring or obnoxious movies. Every once in
a while a movie comes along that a parent can enjoy just as much as
their kid, this is one of those times.

Wil Ferrel plays an overly sensitive goofy dad who must take over the
coaching duties of his son's pathetic soccer team. As in any sports
movie, there is a rival team which in Kicking and Screaming is Wil
Ferrel's overly competitive and overbearing dad played by Robert
Duvall. In order to beat his dad Ferrel gets the help of neighbor Mike
Ditka who plays himself and a couple of little Italian kids.

It follows the path of any sports movie marketed towards kids. Weird
looking kids, goofy jokes, a David and Goliath type plot. The
difference about this one that makes it so enjoyable is Wil Ferrel's
insane brand of comedy that both adult and kid can enjoy. My son was
laughing just as much when Wil Ferrel became addicted to coffee and
started getting caffeine rages or when Wil Ferrel started kicking a
ball as hard as he could around his house and blamed it on the kids.

Seriously check it out if you are the slightest Wil Ferrel fan, have a
kid or just like goofy comedies.
