
This is a fun movie that most everyone in the family can enjoy. It's
rated PG, has some violence, but no nudity and no language. Younger
kids will probably not understand the Masonic and Knights Templar
references, but they'll probably still enjoy it. The only thing anyone
needs to understand about the Masons is the Knights Templar eventually
became the Masons, and many of our founding fathers were Masons, so
there's a bit of Masonic lore/connection tied into the movie. Other
than that, it's easy to follow. Ben Gates is chasing a dream of finding
a lost treasure, the map to which is supposedly hidden on the back of
the Declaration of Independence. He steals the Declaration, then takes
off on his adventure to find the treasure. To put it simply, "National
Treasure" will remind you of a cross between the Indiana Jones trilogy
(minus the snakes) and "Ocean's 11" (minus the drinking and profanity).
You don't have to be a genius to watch it, and you don't have to be a
history nut to understand it. No, there isn't really a map on the back
of the Declaration of Independence (Is there?), but Indiana Jones
didn't actually find the Ark, either. It's a fun, fantasy, what-if,
kind of movie. Enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
National Treasure was not on my must-watch list. but it turned out to
be a most pleasant surprise. the history behind the show may not be
accurate and it also has around it, an air of mystery, but it certainly
was a fun filled ride with the face-paced action flicks! I'm NOT a
particular Cage fan. nonetheless i had to admit he did a pretty good
job as Ben Gates - slightly serious yet very witty! together with
Riley, they provided the tickles that brought the audience through the
entire film.

with no explicit language and scenes, National Treasure is well-suited
for family entertainment! its a light-hearted film good for an evening
of chilling out! the subtle love story also adds credit to the film.

well done!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see four movies this week (Birth, Incredible, Bridget, and
this one, National Treasure). 

I went to see National Treasure last because it got the worst rating by
critics. 

It turned out to be the best of four. 

An excellent movie, packed with suspense, good acting, plot, from
beginning to end. 

Two thumbs down for critics. They missed this one just like they did
for Riddick. 

I heartedly recommend it to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a fun film, sort of like an Indian Jones movie, but the
treasure hunter must figure out clues. I'm sure the reason this was
made and released now has a lot to do with the Da Vinci Code. The plot
is just like it except instead of involving religious history, the
clues center around American history, and namely the founding fathers.

So Nick Cage, plays Ben Gates, the treasure hunter whose family has
been looking for the treasure of the knights templer for years. One of
his relatives possessed the last remaining clue from a dying Mason. So,
the movie starts with Cage finally solving that clue, and the film goes
from there. Of course, we have the evil billionaire guy who wants the
treasure for himself and the funny sidekick. But, I think the sidekick
failed because he wasn't all that funny. The movie could have used some
more humor. And of course, Gates hooks up with a beautiful woman along
the way to help him solve the clues, which sounds just like Da Vinci.

It is unbelievable that someone could just come up with the answer to
these difficult clues after thinking about them for 2 minutes, but we
don't have time to let the characters ponder them for a few months. It
is meant to be fun, so forget about the plot holes. The whole set
beneath the church looked very neat, but I would have to think all
those wooden stairs would have been rotten by then and no one could
walk on them. But who cares, it's fun.

And the theft of the Declaration of Independence was reminiscent of
Ocean's 11. Funny how anyone can steal anything in a film, forget
locked down security.

FINAL VERDICT: If you like adventure films, I recommend it. It is not
like Tomb Raider, which some have compared it to. Tomb Raider was
horrible. This is more like Indiana Jones.
<|_=00=_|>
NATIONAL TREASURE (3 outta 5 stars) After hearing some of the initial
reviews I was expecting something of a train wreck here. Actually, the
movie is not bad at all... in a cheesy kind of Saturday afternoon
time-killing way. Some of the actions of the characters strain
credibility at times... but if you just sit back and let the plot play
out it's all quite entertaining. A pair of eccentric treasure hunters
pick up a female ally along the way as they try to beat a rich bad man
at finding the greatest cache of treasure of all time. Nicolas Cage
gives an effortlessly engaging lead performance. His male and female
sidekicks (Diane Kruger and Justin Bartha) play off him quite well. The
main villain (Sean Bean) is a more low-key bad guy than we tend to see
in movies these days... he doesn't go on and on ranting and raving and
screaming to prove how bad he is... he just proves it quite
matter-of-factly through his actions. Jon Voigt and Harvey Keitel do
alright in a couple of minor roles that don't do much for their acting
cred but probably gave their bank accounts a boost. It didn't even
strike me until the very end that this was indeed a Disney MOVIE... one
very much like the adventure movies they used to put out in the 50s. I
was also pleasantly surprised that there were less dumb action stunts
than I expected. The two major stunt scenes in the film (a car chase
and a stairway cave-in) were pretty un-inspired... the movie wisely
concentrates more on plot and dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
I am NOT, repeat, NOT, a Nicolas Cage fan, mainly because he relies too
much on action to carry his films (instead of his acting), but this is
a pretty decent flick. There is enough action and suspense to keep the
viewer's interest and also to maintain the pace of the film. There's
actually not very much actual violence (strange for a Cage film!), but
the story is so well-written that even Cage can pull it off without any
gore. The basic story has been reviewed several times, but it's the
continuation of a 200 year old treasure hunt. Cage must solve riddle
after riddle to find the ultimate clue to the treasure's whereabouts.
The clue is finally determined to be on the back of the Declaration of
Independence. How Cage figures the clue that leads him there is pretty
far-fetched but its the key to the story. If you buy into that, the
rest of the riddles are acceptable. There's also a double cross plot
headed by the great Sean Bean that provides a lot of the action. The
lovely Diane Kruger portrays the poor lady who gets caught up in the
middle of all this intrigue. Overall, except for the figuring out of
the clue found in the ship (the viewer just has to assume that he's
that far above the rest of us in intelligence), a pretty exciting film
with a little something for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This one gets my vote for the most enjoyable flick of 2004 (together
with The Indredibles). You'd think it's just for kiddies, but any adult
capable of just going to the cinema to enjoy themselves should be able
to sit back, gobble the popcorn, suck the straw, nibble on the ice-
cream and just have a couple of hours of unproblematic maniaÂ—with good
and bad guys, daring thefts, lost treasures, romance, chases, near
escapes, disasters and rescues and everything you'd expect in this kind
of Bruckheimer production. 

The whole thing is paced just right, the villains are just bad enough,
and the goodies are nobles with a roguish streak. The cheesy bits are
mellowed with a dash of wry humor, and those that aren't: well, just
take them, don't cringe and, again, have fun!

I came out of this movie smiling, as did my wife and elder daughter
(that would make all of us into definite 'adults'). Since a smile was
what we all wanted that day, we got exactly what we asked for.
<|_=00=_|>
A descendant (Nicolas Cage) of a family of fortune hunters looks for a
treasure chest that was hidden by the Founding Fathers of the new
United States after the Revolutionary War. After being double-crossed
by European Sean Bean and his men while obtaining another clue in the
Arctic, Cage and sidekick Justin Bertha (who nearly steals the show
with his quick-witted one-liners) travel to D.C. to obtain the
Declaration of Independence. It is believed that there is an invisible
map on the back of that historic document. A daring cat and mouse game
continues between Cage and Bean as the ultra-hot Diane Kruger (who made
almost no impression in the disappointing "Troy") gets involved as
well. Jon Voight (Cage's skeptical father) also gets thrown in the mix
as the movie progresses and he does some of the best work of his career
in an endearing and quietly comical role. A brilliant scavenger hunt
for clues along the major cities of the East Coast will leave you on
the edge of your seat. "National Treasure" is a fun trip to the movies.
The setup (told by Cage's grandfather, Christopher Plummer) is a bit
uneven and I was worried that this was going to be a disaster, but I am
glad it was not. The characters are all smart and intelligent and the
pace is fast and furious. Wonderful entertainment for the entire
family. Surprisingly one of the finer pictures of 2004. 4 stars out of
5.
<|_=00=_|>
"National Treasure" is a thriller that was obviously targeted for young
audiences. John Turtletaub, its director, has created a film that will
resonate with those audiences because of the great ride and the
adventure it depicts. On the other hand, heaven help us, should anyone
feel inspired to emulate the hero of the film and attempts to do
something similar, which in a way, doesn't say much about the security
in guarding the real "natural treasures" of the country.

If we can believe Ben Gates can pull the caper, then there's no problem
in enjoying this film, which offers an action packed couple of hours
that could have been trimmed a little bit to make it even better.

Not being a Nicolas Cage fan, one was prepared for the worst, but this
is one of the films in which Mr. Cage is at his mellowest intensity and
it's easy to tolerate his antics. Diane Kreuger is a beautiful addition
to the film that pays well. Justin Bartha does what he can being a
computer nerd and pulling fantastic stuff to help his friend. Sean
Bean, Christopher Plummer and Jon Voight, are seen in supporting roles.

This is a film that will play well with young minds and with adults
that will allow for the silliness of the situation at hand.
<|_=00=_|>
Completely unbelievable but fun romp around the world looking for
treasure...it won't win any awards but its a good two hours at the
movies.

The plot to trying to find a lost treasure a clue to which is on the
back of the Declaration of Independence is so beyond belief that its
best to simply begin by throwing up your hands and accepting it for
what it is. Certainly the cast has thrown reality to the wind and
appears to be having a grand time.

My only complaint, and its what keeps me from saying you you should see
this in a theater instead of renting it, is that the pacing is off. It
needs a zipper pace to get us from A to B. Certainly it moves well, but
there were times when I just wanted to to move a bit faster. Its a
minor fault, but one that prevented me from really loving this.

7 out of 10. Definitely worth seeing, preferably for less than what
they charge for a full price movie admission these days.
