
This was a film with a somewhat interesting premise, a somewhat
interesting main character, and a somewhat interesting conclusion. This
was not a Pixar film: it wasn't designed to appeal to adults. Rather,
the writers focus on giving the kiddies a few laughs without leaving
the parents comatose with boredom.

And when everything is taken into consideration, the writers succeed.
Somewhat.

It's just not a very memorable film. Whreas most kids can watch films
like "Shrek" repeatedly because of the sight gags, talented voice-over
performances, and hidden jokes that they might not catch the first time
around, "Chicken Little" is likely to be forgotten the moment the
credits roll. That's not to say that Disney doesn't provide it's
standard politically correct message. Of course the best player on the
baseball team is a girl (Foxy Loxy). Of course a girl (Goosey Loosey)
beats up and humiliates the boy (Chicken Little). Of course the
character with the most redeeming social value is physically
unattractive (Abby Mallard). And on, and on, and on. Disney also
manages to continue its bizarre tradition of creating single father
families ("Little Mermaid", "Aladdin", "Beauty and the Beast", "The
Goofy Movie"): Chicken Little's mother has, of course, departed for the
great unknown.

The relationship between Chicken Little and his father comes across as
more annoying than heartwarming. The premise: A father realizes that
it's probably not such a great idea to be embarrassed by his son; by
the end of the movie, what his own child thinks of him actually takes
precedent over the opinions of neighbors and perfect strangers! This
message would undoubtedly come across as highly inspirational...if not
for the fact that it's so blatantly obvious, hackneyed, and overplayed.

The voice-over's for the film were largely uninspiring, save for
amusing performances by Don Knotts and Adam West. "Fish out of Water"
was easily the most likable of the bunch (yes, I was suckered by the
standard Disney cutesy animated character in their never ending attempt
to sell more toys), and he didn't even have a speaking roll. No,
"Chicken Little" is not the worst animated film I've ever seen...but
memorable, it is not.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been many, many movies that Disney has put out that I've had
a high desire to see "succeed". All in all, most Disney animated movies
that have made it to the big screen in the more modern cinema history
of, say, from "Beauty and the Beast" all the way up to "Lilo & Stitch"
and "Brother Bear", have done that. Perhaps some are only a financial
success, like "Treasure Planet", but certainly they were popular enough
with one group of moviegoers or another to have a good box office take.

Unfortunately, "Chicken Little" is not a success.

In pooling my thoughts to review this movie, I am so highly
disappointed that good animation is its only high mark. In this pivotal
point in the history of The Walt Disney Company, where its relationship
with Pixar is still on the rocks while a new president is stepping up,
I wanted this movie to be a smashing success. I wanted this to be the
movie that starts another Golden Age revolution, where it is possible
that Disney takes the top spot in producing awesome animated movies.

I fear that there aren't many good storytellers left at Disney Feature
Animation, and there didn't seem to by any present for the making of
"Chicken Little". The story itself, chronicling the tales of the title
character proving to his community that he is not a failure, was a good
enough premise. Though it wasn't executed well at all. Instead of
solid, premise-building scenes where it's main characters interact well
with others (and get the audience laughing along the way), we get a
sappy, melodramatic mini-soap with voice actors who don't have a good
script...followed immediately by, more times than I'd care to recall,
potty humor gags. Judging by the audience of my screening, made up of
at least 40% little kids, only they found that funny.

With so many 3D animated movies coming out recently, like "Madagascar",
"Robots" and "Valiant", all released this year, many companies are
trying to prove their movie-making chops to us movie-goers. They can
make a very beautiful looking movie, with wonderfully rendered
characters that can move so fluidly and realistic...but the very vital
element of sharing a good story is missing in action. It's my belief
that a great story without great animation will be a much better movie
than one that looks great, but has a weak story. Though, both elements
are what made Pixar's "The Incredibles" an Oscar-contending, $265
million hit. Computer animation is, indeed, not the shoe-in, cure-all
solution to a great movie.

To boot, "Chicken Little" has a weak soundtrack, composed mainly of
songs that were popular at one time or another...to the pre-teen-aged
crowd. Instead of beautiful, original, fully-composed songs like "A
Whole New World" in "Aladdin" (or anything close to it), we are treated
to Spice Girls' "If You Wanna Be My Lover" (complete, by the way, with
karaoke subtitles). Unoriginal and highly annoying.

Having sufficiently railed on the movie, it is my belief that the
corporate suits in charge of financing Feature Animation have more
blame for the steady decline in their movies than anybody working under
them. It seems they think they know what makes a successful movie,
over-riding many decisions of the animators and storytellers--those who
are still at Feature Animation--who have proved they can make great
movies. I believe said pencil pushers are what made last year's "Home
on the Range" fail, critically and financially.

All in all, I believe "Chicken Little" is a failure that I define as
hot having a good story to match its sweet computer animation. In
Disney's quest to prove that they are still the Best of the Best,
movies like this will prove to the world that they are merely the best
of the rest. And we all know that it's not the Disney we grew up on and
cherished.

"Chicken Little" gets 4 of 10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
This is without a split second of hesitation the worst movie I have
ever seen. I actually cried through large parts of it due to the agony
of watching it.

Moral of the first 60 minutes of the story: if you are not good at
sports then you are a bad person that nobody likes, not even your own
parents, and that is just what you deserve. And if you are being
bullied for not being good at sports then do not expect any help from
adults, because you deserve that as well.

After 60 minutes the movie turns info a cartoon version of War of the
Worlds with aliens in giant octopus vessels terrorizing the town.

The only thing I am grateful for is that I watched this on TV and not
on cinemaÂ—that way I only wasted time and not money.
<|_=00=_|>
Reviewing "Robots," "The New York Times" opined that when it comes to
animation there's Pixar, there's Japan, and there's everyone else (it
should be noted that not all Japanese cartoons are good - "Shin Chan,"
anyone? - but you see A.O. Scott's point). "Chicken Little" definitely
falls into the "anywhere else" camp, but while it won't siphon away
fans from John Lasseter or Nick Park - especially since Disney's
delayed its UK release for a few months, the way they did with "Sky
High" (but not "Herbie: Fully Loaded," I notice. Idiots) - it's not
DreamWorks-mediocre either.

The House of Mouse's first attempt at computer animated movies without
Pixar was the skilfully made but hollow "Dinosaur"; this one is under
the auspices of the team behind the wonderful "The Emperor's New
Groove," and while it doesn't have that cartoon's spirit it still has
some virtues of its own. More deliberately cartoonish in its look and
feel than many recent features, it's also probably a little too
sentimental for some tastes - an awful lot of the movie involves our
feathered hero wanting not only to redeem himself for the whole "the
sky is falling" farrago but also to open up two-way communication with
his single dad, with all the Family Issues that implies. Fortunately it
never really swamps the movie, with the family message never overriding
the main intent, i.e. to entertain.

Unlike the inexplicably hugely successful "Madagascar," it doesn't drag
and the voice cast (Zach Braff, Garry Marshall, Joan Cusack, et al)
doesn't get in the way of the movie's effect; it relies a little too
much on popular culture references and songs for its effect
(particularly in the opening - that works in "Raiders of the Lost Ark"
in live action - and in the case of Runt of the Litter, the
show-tune-loving pig voiced by Steve Zahn), but it's a colourful,
charming little movie that thankfully ends well before it has a chance
to wear out its welcome, and it's nice to have a movie with a message
that doesn't try to ram it down your throat. There are worse Disney
movies that could have been dedicated to veteran animator Joe Grant.

And if nothing else, I defy anyone to find another movie that has the
voices of Don Knotts and Patrick Stewart joining in on "Don't Go
Breaking My Heart" over the credits...
<|_=00=_|>
Chicken Little (Zach Braff) claims that the sky is falling but it turns
out later that it's not. Chicken Little is then mocked for the next
year because he worried the town for no reason. A year passes by and
this time the sky really is falling! So it's now up to Chicken Little
to alert the town and prove to them that the aliens are really here! 

I was really looking forward to "Chicken Little" after seeing all the
trailers but this movie doesn't live up to the hype and falls short.
The characters are likable so it's not the characters that make this
movie not live up to expectation but rather its story and running time.

The movie clocks in at a measly 77 minutes, which as many know is not
nearly long enough for a movie. These days a movie should run no less
than 90 mins and this film runs 13 minutes less than that. The whole
problem is the story here, it starts off promising but then when the
sky really does start to fall, the film feels rushed. The story
definitely needed some brushing up on and I fear now for Disney that
without Pixar they may really be in trouble. The problem was "Chicken
Little" had so much potential and a great marketing campaign but the
writers didn't pay any detail to the story to help the film live up to
it's expectations.

Disney thinks that hand drawn animation is done for but the problem
isn't hand drawn animation, it's the fact that the better stories are
going to computer animated films. That is "Chicken Little's" problem.
The film is computer animation but it still doesn't have a great story
and therefore critics panned it. If someone hand drew "Finding Nemo"
with the great and unique story it had, it probably would have done
just as good as it did being computer animated. Disney really needs to
concentrate more on its stories rather then its animation.

Now it sounds like I am beating up on "Chicken Little" but I don't mean
too that much. I actually enjoyed the film but I expected more from it.
I wanted a longer film; I wanted a more polished story. I just wanted
more from this film in general and like I said the film fell short
because the movie just relied too much on its animation and not enough
on it's story.

Another problem was that the jokes aren't very fresh and there aren't
enough jokes in the script that adults can enjoy as well as their kids.
The characters are the best part of the movie especially Runt of the
litter voiced by Steve Zahn, Abby Mallard voiced by Joan Cusack and of
course Chicken Little himself. The voice talent was great, they just
needed a better story to help move the film along better.

In the end, "Chicken Little" is disappointing. It's a decent film that
could have been great only if Disney concentrated more on its story
rather than on its marketing. The movie on the whole isn't bad, it just
isn't great. The characters, voice talent and some of the jokes save
the movie from really sinking. This movie is sure to amuse the little
ones but once you get past the age of 13, you may not find the film
overly amusing. The shame is that movies like "Corpse Bride" and
"Wallace and Gromit" which were released into theaters a few weeks ago
are far more enjoyable then "Chicken Little" and contain things that
both adults and children alike can enjoy like their stories. "Chicken
Little" is worth a matinÃ©e ticket at the multiplex but not worth full
price. If you have kids, take them they will love it even though you
may not enjoy it as much as its clever marketing makes you believe.

MovieManMenzel's final rating for Chicken Little is a 6/10. It's decent
but had the potential to be so much more!
<|_=00=_|>
Why does Chicken Little have the voice of a NY accountant. Nemo sounded
like a little boy, Chicken Little sounds like a twenty-something Woody
Allen. Just awful casting! No magic or script in this film. Horrible.
The plot seemed rushed through. The voices were annoying, not
endearing. The surrounding cast of characters, especially the pig and
the fish were annoying and not cute, nor funny. The gags and jokes were
just stupid. The computer animation was bottom rate. Disney should be
appalled and Pixar should be feeling indestructible after this flop.The
songs were cheesy and ill-timed, they felt forced in to the film. I
can't believe they had a training montage set to music. I know it's a
kid's film, but come on, the montage is dead. The soundtrack was just
plain bad. My kids hate it, and I stand by my kids.
<|_=00=_|>
Ready for a lot of political correctness? Than you must watch Chicken
Little. Good cartoons teach good lessons effortlessly. Usually, a good
story develops as the main theme slowly moves into focus. Instead, this
movie kept advertising itself during the movie. Watch it for your self.
Here's the spoiler: the world is saved, not by Chicken Little, but
because he can finally communicate openly with his dad- really? Here's
why The Incredibles made money: it avoided political correctness (in
fact being un-politically correct is the new "raw, edgy, straddles the
line perfectly"), it respects real heroes (not accidental ones), it
doesn't pander to the insignificant moviegoers, and it was cut well
(Chicken Little's school life was wholly insignificant to the movie).
<|_=00=_|>
My son is four years old and I decided that his gift for the second day
of Christmas would be his first trip to a movie theater. We scanned the
list of titles now playing and Chicken little was pretty much the only
option. Narnia or Cheaper by the dozen, for instance, are for much
older kids. Mine found Shreck boring (he never had the patience to
watch the whole movie on DVD). The same goes for Finding Nemo and
pretty much every other movie I tried to make him watch, unless it was
after some TV show. I was beginning to fear that we are doomed to watch
nothing but Power Rangers forever. But Chicken Little did the trick. He
watched it and loved it. In fact, he had the time of his life. He
laughed, he screamed, he jumped, he covered his eyes and screamed
again, and then he laughed some more.I can't say anything about myself,
because I was to busy taking pictures of my kid watching his first
movie to pay any attention to the screen, but my 4-year old rated this
movie excellent. And I think his opinion is the only one that matters,
because the movie is for him, and for other kids his age, not for
grown-ups or teens. So please try to see it with the eyes of a little
kid, and you might enjoy it better.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to write a synopsis of the movie since everyone else has
done that and besides I want you to go check it out for yourself. If
you love animation please do not pay attention to the negative posts
here. The movie was pure fun with a few sentimental moments here and
there. I think people nowadays have forgotten that movies are there for
mostly entertainment purposes. When you can't even enjoy a fun family
flick like "Chicken Little" anymore you know something's wrong. Or
maybe people are too busy comparing it to Pixar to give it a real
chance. who knows? 

The movie was FUN. I've seen it twice already and both times the
audience enjoyed it and laughed throughout the movie. So for those of
you who are genuinely interested in the movie, go read all of the
positive posts and you can feel how excitable the movie made many folks
feel. It definitely lifted my spirits. 

The voice talent for "Chicken Little" was dead on. i thought it would
be weird having an adult male's voice for a little tyke such as C.
Little, but it works perfectly here. I also thought the character Runt
would be annoying, but he turned out to bring many of the laughs within
the theater. 

I definitely recommend this film to those who are fans of the animated
film genre!
<|_=00=_|>
Cuz like fat people are pigs. I get it. And at the end, there is a fake
movie ending and everyone claps because they want to remind the real
audience that they are suppose to clap at the end of this atrocious
piece of poop. 

A rather unspectacular entry into the Disney library. It's pretty sad
that they spend tens of millions of dollars making a film that is
filled with stereotypes and clichÃ©'s with a such a poorly written
story. Even sadder, that this is geared towards children. Parents
should be ashamed that their children spend their formative time being
exposed to this sort of tripe.
