
Before I start my review let me say I am a huge Indy fan and have been
waiting for this movie for 19 years.

Bad news first : Number 4 is the weakest of the Indy films. Good news :
It is still good entertainment.

Let me explain further :

The Good : 

Harrison Ford still IS Indiana Jones. He still has the magic to
impersonate this character. You really see his efforts to make this
film work. Great camera work and sets. Shia LaBoef is actually quite
good and not annoying at all, he has some funny lines and scenes. I
never regretted that he was in the movie. Some really good action
scenes, esp. in the first half of the movie with believable stunts and
not too much CGI, e.g. the motorbike chase or the Warehouse battle.
Great! Humor was OK and many jokes worked for me (best : the quicksand
scene).

The Bad :

John Hurt as Oxley looked like Dumbledore on Ecstasy. I didn't like his
character very much and was glad when he finally became "sane" again.
Problem was by then the movie was almost over. Sorry guys, Karen Allen.
She was overacting too much, smiling and laughing all the way even
during the deadliest action sequences like a soccer mum. We know she is
tough and so but it never felt believable. Also her interaction and
reunion with Ford seemed a bit forced. The Villains : Blanchet was OK,
but not very menacing or intimidating. You never felt she was a threat
to Indy. She was always behind him. Russians? Give me Nazis as
adversaries any day. Ray Winstons character (forgot the name) was
confusing and underdeveloped : "I am on your side, no wait I am a
traitor, oh wait I am CIA, never mind I am a traitor again". WTF? Ant
scene : Stolen straight from "The Mummy". Shame on you, Spielberg.

The Ugly :

Sorry, but the last third of the film was the pits. The jungle chase
was far "over the top" action, I thought Indy and Mutt were human
beings, not supermen. They pulled off moves and jumps that even
Spiderman couldn't do. Indy not using his gun once. At least he didn't
carry a walky-talky instead. Nuclear explosion scene. OMG. How
embarrassing, who came up with this idea? What was supposed to be funny
only got howls of disbelieve and "Yeah right" from the audience. Indy
survives a nuclear explosion in a fridge (!) and then is whirled away
miles through the air, exits the fridge and walks off? Was Spielberg on
drugs when he filmed this? Who on earth could survive such an
explosion? I couldn't believe it! The plot : Not very suspenseful.
Parts of it even boring. Aliens? They waited 19 years for this script?
I believe almost anything would have been better. At least the Aliens
only appear during the last minutes.

All in all a small disappointment but still a watchable Indy movie. I
think "less would have been more" in this case. More believable stunts,
less CGI and a better script and the movie would have rocked. I blame
Spielberg and Lucas. Kudos to Ford. Should have made Indy IV 10 years
earlier.

I give it a 5/10 despite all the negative points. First third of the
movie 8/10, rest 2/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry, but after reading all this negative comments, I like to give you
my thoughts on this. When I walked out of the movie I was not really
satisfied, because some things bothers me, like the monkey-rope scene
and some other ridiculous and illogical things. But, then I remembered
scenes from the first three movies, like jumping out of a plane with a
rubber boat and then bob run with it down the Himalaya. Or Indy hanging
on top of submarine and then swims with it through half of the ocean
(isn't such a thing going underwater sometimes?). Well, what I want to
say is that in the old Indy films there where tons of ridiculous stunts
and it always was very cartoonish and yes, often cheesy. But as I child
I liked those movies for that. They are just adventures with a lot of
action, mystic and fun, not more.

We have all grown up (with all that logic and reason), and we want the
movie to fascinate us again like the first three did as we were a
child. The disappointment is programmed. The movie is still an Indiana
Jones Movie, it has so many running gags and links to the first three
ones, it's truly a tribute to the fans. (Even that Indy starts Mutt to
call 'Junior' was a nice one.) Maybe this one is too much of an Indiana
Jones movie, because it just delivers elements that can be found in the
first three movies too (the car chases, insects, falling down of
waterfalls, e.g.) - but what else do we want? Also I didn't think the
CGI was too much, I even found it was decent. And yes, this one was
made to make money. The first three were also made to make money. Films
are supposed to make money - so what? So, maybe just watch the first
three again, then relax and just sit back and enjoy this one. It's not
supposed to be drop dead serious and realistic. And when I look back, I
wasn't bored throughout the whole movie, it was very entertaining. It's
maybe just the long time between this and the last one, some things
have changed, if we like it or not. But I am thankful that this movie
was made.

The only thing I was missing was the whip - it has one scene in the
beginning and then Indi uses it never again in this movie. I always
liked the whip, because it's not a normal weapon for a hero, and makes
Indi a little more special.
<|_=00=_|>
I find it very amusing to read all the reviews here. I mostly agree
with all the ones who found it disappointing, I can see why the Michael
Bay-loving GTA-generation could give this a '10', however: Lots of CGI,
fake green-screen action and style over substance.

For me - a die hard Indiana Jones fan, who grown up attending premieres
for the first three - this was a big letdown, primarily because of the
script, which could have been written by a 11 year-old. 

A lot of Indiana Jones fans all over the world are probably scratching
their heads these days, wondering why a script (Darabonts) which
Spielberg called "the best he has read since Raiders", was scrapped by
Lucas. So he could give us this? Tarzan meets X-files?

It just didn't rock my boat, like the first three. I even found
'National Treasure II' more entertaining, than this mess.
<|_=00=_|>
I reached a movie buff conclusion after the 2nd set of Star wars films.
It's simply not possible to top an iconic, legendary film or series.
The original can't be beat, and is next to impossible to match. Doesn't
matter who directs, stars, the effects, etc - can't be done. Being sure
of this in advance made the Crystal Skull easier for me to take - but I
still have to be critical - because they let us down on the simple
stuff. My other movie buff observation is - its ALWAYS the writing
first. The STORY. The other stuff flows from that, making the film
better or worse. In Indiana Jones and The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull,
the writing failed us. The story does not hold together well and the
dialog rings intermittently false throughout the film. I wanted to love
the movie - but I was disappointed. When I heard they were all waiting
for the "right" script to make another Indy film - that sounded good.
But it appears that wasn't really true. I have to assume they all just
decided the timing was "right" and it would be fun to get the old group
together to do a flick - because the script was poor. The movie is more
like an attempt at what an Idiana Jones adventure SHOULD look like -
but with no real substance. A series of Indiana like dangerous
situations and exploits strung together loosely with some attempts at
humor thrown in. But no clear beginning to end plot. No disaster to
avert, no one to rescue. Nothing in particular to root for... The
actors seemed a bit uncomfortable to me - even Harrison Ford himself.
Indy's love interest from Raiders (Marian) was underutilized and
apparently a bit rusty in the acting department. She seemed to be just
"thrown in" to add a nostalgic romantic element. The young Mutt
character was well cast and did a good job with what he had to work
with. The story arc regarding Indys age, his old love and young Mutt is
dealt with - but could have been a better, more solid part of a more
well written story. I'm glad I saw the film. I enjoyed seeing Indy
again, but my hope that I'd be wanting to go again didn't pan out. It's
worth only one visit - and that just to see some Indiana JonesLIKE
adventures - in a story that doesn't make much sense. Sorry to break
bad news to anyone who reads fan reviews - but that's my story and I'm
sticking to it. George - you should have fussed over the writing a bit
more and Harrison - I'd have waited longer for the right script. This
was a weak effort and it didn't need to be. Mr Lucas and Mr Spielberg
-you surprised me on this one - and let us all down on the story. Just
my opinion :) Scott (an Indy Fan).
<|_=00=_|>
There was a trailer beforehand of Kung Fu Panda somethingorother. The
film then started with the Paramount mountain, formed from a gopher
mound, and an unrealistic CG gopher poking it's head out of the mound.
I actually didn't realise this was the film, and still thought I was
watching a Disney trailer. This was my first sign that the film was
going to be a filing cabinet full of soiled underwear.

This complete cowpat of a film is truly a sign of the shifting
zeitgeist of what is expected from cinema. At least from Lucas et al.

There was so much wrong with this film, I don't even know where to
start. Every scene was a howler. 

Story has now been replaced by technical ability with CGI. Character
development is now abandoned in favour of a panicked attention-grabbing
frenzy of disconnected scenes. Comedy comes from prat-falling CG
chipmunks, rather than wit or a character's reaction to a situation
(remember the German bad guy and Indy's reaction to the Arab on the
windshield of the truck in 'Raiders'? Hilarious!). The bloated chase
scene was incomprehensibly ludicrous. Fantastical CGI renderings paved
the way for unrealistic feats of human acrobatics that would not have
been out of place in the Matrix Reloaded car chase.

Think of the scenes in Raiders where people are actually talking to
each other for extended periods: Belloq and Indy in the Marrakesh bar;
Indy and Sallah looking at the headpiece in the old man's house; Indy
and Marcus talking about the ark with the CIA guys in his University.
These are all great scenes. Classic scenes. They divide the action and
drama nicely. They set the stage and peg the narrative so you know -
without being patronised - what is going on. I didn't have a clue what
was happening in Crystal Skull, and just as I was getting my bearings -
an alien spaceship took off!!! I whispered to the guy next to me
'Please... make it stop.'.

I really thought that Lucas would have learned a very sore lesson from
the reaction to the re-hashed Star Wars movies. We don't want
Midichlorians. We don't want CGI. We don't want prat-falling comedy
robots and gophers. We want soul, scene, story, character, mis en
scene, tension, performance, dialogue, good casting, solid character
relationships.

You will not get this from 'Crystal'.

Which scene scared you more: Marion hanging 15 meters off the ground
from the statue of Anubis in Raiders, or Marion driving (giggling) off
a cliff into a tree (with no guarantee that she wasn't going snap the
branches or miss the tree altogether) only to be let down gently into
the water by the flexing tree, still giggling?

This film has stretched tension and drama into the ludicrous and that's
exactly what it ends up being. 

Ludicrous.

When you come out of the cinema screen, turn around and look at the
expressions of the people walking out behind you. I did, and it was a
collective 'Has someone just farted?'

High Points: Denholm Elliot's breathtaking performance.

Low Points: Everything else.
<|_=00=_|>
Usually, when you go to see an action/adventure movie, especially an
Indiana Jones movie, you're going to suspend your disbelief and just
allow yourself to "get into" the movie. These kinds of movies are
supposed to be mindless escapist fun. Still, one might expect some
small modicum of plausibility or connection to the real world. When it
comes to "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull," forget
about suspending disbelief. Just pretend you're in another dimension
altogether. If you do that, you'll have have met one of the two
prerequisites for seeing this movie. (If you don't believe me now, you
will when you see this film and see our hero survive a cataclysmic
event in a fairly cartoonish manner a mere 15 minutes into the film.)
The other prerequisite is that you've seen the other three
movies...religiously. A huge chunk of the entertainment value of this
film comes from nostalgia, in-jokes, and self-parody. It is an
entertaining movie and I had fun and laughed while I was watching it
and the reason for this is because we are either enjoying seeing all of
the same old gags done once again in a bigger and cooler way, or we are
enjoying seeing those gags mocked. Trusty bullwhip? Check. Fedora?
Check. Long car chase with fighting and leaping and what-not? Check.
Dark tombs lit only by torches? Check. Gross creepy crawly critters?
Check.

This is what makes the movie entertaining, but is also what prevents it
from greatness and what makes me hesitant to call it a true "Indiana
Jones" movie. George Lucas (who co-wrote the screenplay) has tried to
do here what he did to the "Star Wars" prequels, namely that he thinks
that appealing to the fan base with in-jokes, self-parody, and
re-hashing the same old stuff can take the place of actually writing a
a story that can stand on its own merits. The "Star Wars" prequels
failed because Lucas could not get past his constant references to the
original trilogy and so instead created fan fiction instead of true
prequels. (Well, there was also the fact that Lucas' dialogue SUCKED.)
Here, the stunts and action sequences and in-jokes keep us feeling
entertained during the course of the film, but when we walk away, we
wonder where was the real story.

Indiana Jones is a homage to 1930s serials about treasure hunters. He's
out of place in the 1950s. Also out of place are the Soviets(led by
Cate Blanchett in a Rosa Kleb-like role). And there are many, many,
MANY instances where you will get to wondering just how implausible the
next stunt will be. All of that I can put up with, though, and in fact
can and do add to the entertainment value of the film. What I could not
put up with was the ending, which will remind you not of Indiana Jones
but of the ending to another Spielberg movies that pre-dates "Raiders
of the Lost Ark." 

This movie is lots of fun to watch, but it doesn't take itself
seriously and probably shouldn't be part of the Indiana Jones canon.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is making zillions all over the world so what does it matter
that it's just a mediocre attempt to recapture the energy, the
youthfulness and the innocence of the previous installments? Love of
cinema, that's what made me react the way I did. How can it possibly be
that the most powerful people in the film world could agree that this
was the script that everyone was waiting for? Shallow, opportunistic,
over long, over crowded and implausible in a way the other films
weren't regardless of their own implausibilities because one was
connected tho the soul of the enterprise. There is no soul here to
cling to. It's all by the numbers, odd numbers at that. Karen Allen
returns! But look at the clumsiness of her re introduction. I was
bitterly disappointed but maybe it's just me.
<|_=00=_|>
Visually, with Henry Jones Junior (he is rarely called "Indiana" or
"Indy" in this film) swimming in his baggy grandpa pants and shocks of
grey-white hair peeking out under an ever-crisp, rarely-dirty brown
fedora, you really don't get the feeling that you're watching anything
historic--but a few of the old John Williams refrains drive something
primal bubbling to the surface of those of us who grew up idolizing
Indy.

The reason that the music is the first thing to be examined here, is
that it's one of very few things that evoked that sort of reaction in
The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. A movie fraught with missteps and an
obvious misunderstanding of its own audience, it's exactly the type of
summer blockbuster developed to make money at all costs: things blow
up; there's aliens and Nazis--well, not Nazis so much as Russians with
grey shirts and jackboots; an unnecessary youthful sidekick (to bring
in the teenagers, you see); and a little something extra borrowed from
Bryan Singer's abominable Superman Returns. To ascertain that you know
it's a Spielberg picture, the Russians are never subtitled (see also:
every Arab in Munich or about 90% of all Germans in any film except
Schindler's List); this way, the "evil" characters can be thoroughly
and literally dehumanized.

The film oozes 1950s--Russian spies, nuclear testing, a screening of
Howdy Doody and Dr. Jones on a sort of academic blacklist all take
place in the first ten-or-so minutes of the picture (as doessad to say
the high point of the film for mea cameo appearance by Neil Flynn, a
friend of Ford's from The Fugitive who is best known for his portrayal
of The Janitor on ABC sitcom Scrubs). The filmmakers have discussed at
length how, while the earlier Jones films were an attempt to capture
the magic of '30s and '40s adventure films with a contemporary feel,
The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull will be a '50s-style action romp with
some science-fiction sensibility thrown in for good measure (a
questionable choice to start, as many of those films eventually ended
up as Mystery Science Theater 3000 fodder). In an attempt to capture
that feel, you have some campy dialogue, some stock characters and Shia
LaBoeuf as Arthur Fonzerelli. There's a fairly generic soda fountain
brawl, initiated by LaBoeuf and set to the tune of Shake, Rattle &
Roll, which solidly plants this film in its era. This is an interesting
artistic choice because in the previous Indy films, even with their
date stamps, the adventures that took place were largely relatively
timeless.

The other aspect of the film that is bound to turn some heads--it
already has, both in pre-screenings and on the Internet as eagle-eyed
fans dissected the trailers--is the role that extra-terrestrials play
in the picture. As in Spielberg's classic Close Encounters of the Third
Kind, there is no dialogue, as such, shared between man and his
visitors...but their presence is strong and pervasive, particularly in
the second half of the film. Using Roswell as a jumping-off point, it
is revealed that the good Dr. Jones has been used as a government agent
in a variety of capacities since we last caught up with him--he is a
Colonel in the Army, apparently, and also has worked with the CIA, MI6
and as a spy against the Russians in the time since Hitler autographed
his father's diary for him in the early '40s.

The adventure sequences in the picture are hit-or-miss; while some of
the car chases and fight sequences are good, and a lot of the side
jokes are on the mark, there are times (Marion is injured while
driving, but mysteriously gets better) that it's hard to follow
visually what's going on as they try to pack too many characters and
subplots into a fast-moving sequence. Many of Harrison Ford's comic
moments are on-target, but other diversionssuch a CGI-rendered prairie
dogs and LaBoeuf's own private army of monkeysbring to mind some of
the more artistically-questionable moments of Return of the Jedi and
detract from the seriousness of consequences faced by our protagonists.

Dr. Jones also doesn't get very much solo screen time. Henry himself
has also become a little more cautious in his old age, while everyone
around him seems to have become more like Indiana Jones. Mutt and
Marion are decisive and powerful figures, while Indy often finds
himself sitting on the back of a motorcycle or behind them in the car,
shouting, "No, don't do that! It's dangerous!" As action heroes go,
Indy has been turned into a great family man. In case a CIA agent of
dubious allegiances, a kidnapped ex-girlfriend and her tagalong son
weren't baggage enough, Indy spends most of the film carting around an
octogenarian in a semi-catatonic state, who may be the "key" to finding
the Lost City of Gold in the same way that his father was key to the
recovery of the Holy Grail.

Ultimately, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is a
film that, while not entirely bad, is nowhere near worthy of its lofty
pedigree. As generic action films go, it may have provided some level
of entertainment in the vein of National Treasure....It's the
attachment of "Indiana Jones" to the title and the involvement of
Harrison Ford, George Lucas and Steven Spielberg that raised
expectations and standards to a level that none of those
individualseach a shadow of his former selfcan meet any longer. It
will doubtlessly open at #1 and secure the kind of critical and
financial success that guarantee it a sequel if all involved want to
make onethe question, really, is whether or not they should.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think I will be giving away any of the plot because there
actually is no plot.

I'll start off by saying that the previous three Indiana Jones movies
are my favorite movies of all time. When I heard about the fourth one I
was excited but thought they should have left it alone because the
third one ended the trilogy so perfectly. However, I went to this movie
with enthusiam and I really really wanted to like it. Afterwards I
figured out that was impossible.

I thought the movie would be cheapened by Shia's character or the fact
that Indy's character would be about 20 years older. Those were
actually some of the very few things that were actually good about this
movie. Shia gave a good performance and I actually liked his character.
They also did a good job of transitioning to an older Indiana.

But the movie just got ridiculous. It started alright as he is escaping
the Russians which had invaded a warehouse in Area 51. However, once he
escaped they threw in a completely pointless scene. Which, and wait til
you hear this one, is that Indiana stumbles upon a mock town set up in
Nevada to judge the effects of an Atomic Bomb at, of course, the time
of the test. So in order to escape, he jumps into a refrigerator, which
they point out is lead lined (will that really help), right before the
explosion hits. He is then tossed a few miles in this, outside of the
blast area. The door stays closed, he isn't injured while being thrown
in this thing at all and feels no ill effects of radiation... YUP.

The middle was alright, with some cool chase scenes, decent dialogue,
and a cool jungle chase scene with vehicle to vehicle fighting. Indiana
did very little of the fighting, and none of it if you exclude hand to
hand combat. One of the few bright spots was Shia doing the fighting
instead of Indiana.

But everything else was terrible. There was an incredibly boring part
where they find the skull. Let me summarize that. They find the ruins
it is hidden in. They walk through the ruins. They find the skull. And
it only got worse from there.

After the cool chase scene in the Jungle they escape gigantic ants by a
really creepy guy holding the skull in front of them. Then they drive
the car (which is also a boat... yeah, I know) off a cliff, but their
landing (which is of course in a river) is cushioned by a huge tree
that they hit and bends them down to place them gently in the water
(Seriously). They then fall off 3 massive water falls, the 5
characters, in this car/boat (that has a jagged glass windshield at
this point), and land in the car safely the first two times, and then
just each in the water safely after the third one (Seriously, Im gonna
say that a lot).

Oh! Then they find the entrance to the temple / city thing they are
looking for. I couldn't have imagined anything less cool. After simply
walking through this they get out the other side to find the city but
realize they are being chased by some native people (which aren't
explained at all). And how do they survive this, the creepy guy points
the skull at them, gee they didn't do this before. Then they get to the
middle of the city and break off some things to drain the middle
structure of the sand that is in it, then have to quickly run down a
circular stair cast that is going away as they run (Which is why Disney
should be suing since this was stolen from National Treasure).

OK, at this point you're thinking "well this hasn't been that good, but
they've reached the temple, the movie can be saved because here comes
the cool part! Here comes the action and the interesting plot that
brings it all together." That couldn't be more incorrect.

Here's how I will summarize that part to give it all the credit it
deserves. Indiana (and group) walk, yes I said walk (nothing else),
through the temple. Creepy guy who doesn't talk carries skull and
points it at a door (gee they didn't do the pointing the skull thing
before). Indiana holds it up to the door, it opens. Yup, there's your
big ACTION / ADVENTURE.

AND THEN... They find a room of 13 ALIENS, made completely OUT OF
CRYSTAL, but aren't alive. The Russians walk, take the skull and the
woman places it on the NECK OF THE LAST ALIEN. The room then STARTS
SPINNING UNCONTROLLABLE. Indiana and his group dive out. The aliens
then JOIN TO CREATE ONE LIVE ALIEN and use their mind powers to
EVAPORATE THE Russian WOMAN. Then Indiana (and group) run out of the
temple. No, no real action unless you consider him begging his friend
that has betrayed him twice to come with and not to waste time taking
treasure action (he dies, just like the mummy, lawsuit?). After they
get out by sitting in a WATER CANNON THAT BLASTS THEM OUT they witness
the city TURN INTO A FLYING SAUCER THAT ZIPS AWAY! Yup! It really is
that ridiculous. They then play some incredibly lame thing about how
the gift was knowledge in writing that is on the same level as Anakin's
reasoning for going to the dark side in Star Wars Ep 3. After that
Indiana marries, yes marries, Marion (girl from the first one) because
Shia's character is really their kid. And then they do another lame
transition of how he is going to be the next Indiana Jones by Indy's
hat being blown almost into his hands by the wind right before Harrison
Ford snatches it and walks out.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see 'Kingdom' at the Cannes Film Festival, and man: it was a
bumpy ride. The weird CGI gophers at the beginning had me thinking I
was watching yet another movie trailer, so I wasn't very impressed when
I realized Indy 4 had just started.

However, from the moment we see the familiar hat on the dusty ground,
the magic set in. Harrison Ford IS Indiana Jones  he plays the
character exactly the way we remember him from 'Last Crusade'  and the
movie takes off like I had never dared to hope. Some might argue that
the rocket car scene and the atomic explosion are too over the top 
but that's exactly what the first three installments were for me: over
the top action adventure movies with a lot of charm, iconic characters
and great one-liners. So as far as I was concerned, Lucas, Spielberg
and Ford had hit the right note; I was in for two jolly good hours ( I
was so young and foolish then - sigh...)

Well, about an hour or so into the film, something strange starts to
happen. So far, the story has taken place entirely in the U.S.
(magnificent set pieces, era of the fifties meticulously recreated),
but now, after the classic plane-flying-over-a- map Indy scene, we're
being taken to Middle America. And things start to change. In a bad
way. What looked genuine a couple of minutes before, now looks fake.
It's like an episode of the Twilight Zone (is this the same movie?
hello?); the set pieces now actually look like set pieces, the story
stops making sense and most of the backgrounds look like CG paintings
on a green studio wall. I will not go into the details, suffice to say
that I tried hard to like the film yet a little longer, when I received
the final blow by means of the already infamous 'Tarzan' scene. I gave
up. Everything from THAT scene on is not worthy of Spielberg. The CGI
(and there is A LOT of CGI  despite other statements by the beards) is
level with films like 'Jumanji', 'Van Helsing' or 'The Mummy Returns'.
Didn't Spielberg watch the finished film? How can a perfectionist like
him let such sloppy effects go through? Did they run out of money half
way through the film? What the 'beep' happened???

From the second half of the movie on, pretty much everything seems
rushed, hasty and half arsed. In the final third of the film, even the
characters don't care anymore; no matter how tense or dangerous the
situation  they simply carry on laughing and are obviously having a
great time stumbling through an ever more ludicrous plot towards a
climax that doesn't even deserve being called that (E.T. go home, go
HOME!).

So my Verdict? Indy 4 left me confused and disappointed. The first half
is great and true to the character (8 stars out of 10); the second is
poorly executed rubbish. Kingdom of the Crystal Skull could have been a
truly great Indiana Jones Film: the actors all hit their mark, there
were a lot of fresh ideas, and no matter how ludicrous the story was 
I am sure that if it had been done properly and with the same amount of
care and perfectionism Spielberg usually brings to his films I would
have loved the film. After all, I loved the first three  not despite
but because of the ludicrous stories they were: popcorn perfect.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
