
Every now and then a movie comes along that really makes you wonder at
the depths of human nature, the very intricate framework that binds us
together in society. Stealth is one such movie, if of course you
replace "human nature" with "Jessica Biel's cleavage", and "intricate
framework" with "mind-numbingly bad plot and acting".

It all begins simply enough with the same old introduction of the
piloting dream team (for more information on high flying dream teams,
please reference Top Gun, Apollo 13, and the 1992 Olympic Men's
Basketball Finals). Surely enough, one of them is a visible minority,
one a woman, and one a version of white machismo incarnate. So, at this
point in the movie, can you already guess who's going to sacrifice
themselves for the team, who's going to need rescuing, and who's going
to save the day? Good, good, and we're only 30 seconds into the opening
credits. Next, enter the 'wave of the future' that's obviously going to
turn evil and yada-yada-yada. Then, of course, mysteriously relocate
the technician who's nervous about the doomsday implications of said
future-wave. Same old, same old. Can we see some boobies yet? Yes, yes
we can.

We then continue aimlessly through this movie as it twists and turns
and twists some more and then, seemingly at the end of its contortion,
starts twisting back to where it came from  the sewer. Joined the
whole way by bad dialog, a senseless plot and a host of
mispronunciations, not the least of which was "Tajikistan" (pronounced
tie-gee-kee-stan by our venerable commander), this movie begins on a
downward spiral which ultimately emerges as a two hour Army recruitment
commercial. Cue the rescue, and with it the fact that these pilots all
have better aim than the guys trained to shoot, and you have a movie.

So, what was it about this movie that was supposed to be good again?
Ah, I remember, the special effects, the ones that have been assaulting
our eyes on TV every ten minutes for the past month and a half. They
couldn't possibly fail there, right? Wrong. In some scenes, the planes
would have been better off being constructed of plasticine, and the
terrible digital flames marking the sight of one pilot's unfortunate
and entirely foreseeable demise might as well have been drawn by hand
for all the effect they had.

In short, this movie is awful, but who knows, someone out there might
like it. So if you're the kind of person who still wonders how they get
the caramel inside the Caramilk bar, go see this movie, otherwise, you
might just go Oedipus on your eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
Stealth is the best movie of the summer. And when I say best, what I
mean is that it's the most hackneyed and predictable 130-million dollar
piece of crap action flick of the year. Stealth has no intentional
redeeming qualities whatsoever, and plays into every single textbook
stereotype of the genre. Thus, if you're the kind of person who loves
Mystery Science Theatre 3000, you must, must go see Stealth
immediately.

Stealth follows the exploits of three Navy pilots in a top secret
program involving, well, experimental stealth fighters. There's Lt. Ben
Gannon (Josh Lucas): the white-bread pretty-boy with a smarmy attitude
with a history of breaking rules and taking too many risks, played like
a twisted caricature of 'Maverick' Mitchell of Top Gun. There's Kara
Wade (Jessica Biel): the obligatory Caucasian hottie pilot who spouts
clichéd feminist rhetoric and sports an "I can do anything you can do,
better" attitude aligned more with the Spice Girls than Andrea Dworkin;
the pink teddy lingerie and frilly bra she apparently wears under her
LuLu Lemon flight suit don't help her cause either. Finally, there's
Henry Purcell (Jamie Foxx) the black male who listens to rap music, has
indiscriminate sex with as many women as possible, and poses for
imaginary photographers in his bedroom. For no apparent reason he's
also a mathematician and numerology nut who later expounds that "one is
a prime number".

The fourth character is "Tin Man", the artificially intelligent
experimental stealth fighter assigned to the squadron. Its brain uses
"quantum computation" and processes "20 terabits per second" which is
pretty impressive until you realize the number doesn't make any sense.
Having a computer as sympathetic character is a pretty cool idea. At
least it was in 1968 when Kubrick made 2001: A Space Odyssey, though
Tin Man's inflective voice and bizarre penchant for rock music suggests
a closer relation to Max-- the shipboard computer in Disney's Flight of
the Navigator-- than HAL 9000. This doesn't stop the writers from
making bizarre homages to Kubrick's space opus; in fact one major plot
point centers on the computer overhearing a conversation in a scene
shot much like HAL's famous lip-reading in the Pod. The computer also
has a big red eye, which is dumb because it doesn't need to see
anything with it, but cool because it helps the computer emote more
effectively.

After a minor sortie in Rangoon (where "three terrorist leaders" are
meeting in "a building still under construction" (which is important
because now they can implode the building without killing any
civilians-- go America!)), and then an extended Thailand vacation
sequence where the pilots engage in tedious ham-fisted metaphysical
discussions about whether Tin Man is actually alive, the computer
predictably goes nuts and decides to attack a fortified terrorist camp
in Tzadzikistan or something that just got access to some old Russian
nuclear warheads and SCUD launchers. (We know they're terrorists
because of the turbans and the fact that they're moving the warheads
around on carts pulled by mules.) The nukes get blown up but
radioactive dust falls down the mountain side and kills "thousands of
innocent farmers" which I guess is bad but they don't spend too long
worrying about it because they have to catch the psycho stealth.

Usual stuff happens after that-- a pilot hits the side of a mountain,
another one goes down inexplicably in North Korea, and the remaining
one has to avenge his friend's death and rescue the other pilot from
the Koreans' evil clutches. The ability of these planes to be in
Rangoon, Tzadzikistan, Russia, Alaska, and Korea on just a few tanks of
gas is explained by their ability to hit hypersonic speeds exceeding
Mach 5 which is cool because it's like warp speed on Star Trek-- they
punch a button and the planes zip away in a bullet cone of displaced
air and end up in a new locale more suitable for extreme aerobatics.
They also get to fly against the Russians which is funny because the
Russians obviously haven't built any new planes since the fall of the
Soviet Union, which begs the question: why do the stealths have such
trouble with them? Why don't they just hit the Mach 5 button and get
out of there? Is there something about the shocking yellow and brown
paint job on the anachronistic Migs that impedes the functioning of
hypersonic engines? The plot isn't really important-- what is important
is that the movie contains a wealth of brain-dead inaccuracies for
geeks to make fun of. From bizarre phrases like "the Stealth has
firewall-ed the transponder!" to the fact that the Stealth's brain is
made alternately from quantum hardware, neural networks, and DNA
sequences depending on which one looks coolest for the effects
sequence, and was apparently programmed by hand by one man using a
futuristic language reminiscent of Matlab, to the way that the naval
command is powered by transparent lexan PC cases decked out with
coloured LCD cooling fans, this movie just stinks of technical naivety
due to lack of research as opposed to creative liberty.

Stealth is a movie that begs its own drinking game. It should be
watched with a group of people in an environment that engenders snarky
comments. Stealth is not a good movie in any way, shape, or form, but
it is a film that is so stupefyingly bad it absolutely must be seen to
be believed.
<|_=00=_|>
(Spoilers ahead)

My brother in law must hate me, and I cannot let this pass. I mean, I
might have been able to let it go if his disdain for me had manifested
itself in a more civilized manner, like him sucker-punching me in the
balls and calling my kids ugly. But no, his hatred for me runs so deep,
he chose to exact his villainy upon me in the form of this hell-spawn
stupidity know as Stealth. 

Each grating second of the film was like another twist of Lucifer's
fiery trident in my face. Hours after this holocaust was but a distant
memory to my TV screen, the horrific imagery was still burned in my
retinas. I could still hear Satan's demonic host laughing at me, lead
by my brother-in-law.

Stealth, which easily charges past XXX and The Fast and The Furious in
its unwavering quest to be the stupidest movie of all time, was
directed by Rob Cohen, who, in exchange for fame, is obviously bound by
some unholy pact with the devil to assault all of his viewers' senses.
And yes, I mean all my senses: this movie looked, sounded, felt,
smelled, and even tasted like week old sushi. 

The movie's plot starts by introducing a trio of hotshot pilots who
fight hard, play hard, and have perfect hair and teeth while doing it.
You have Ben Gannon (Josh Lucas), the fearless leader who is wild,
unpredictable, and doesn't like to follow orders, but, gosh dangit,
he's the best darned pilot they have. Then there's his love interest,
Kara Wade (Jessica Biel), a woman whose skills surpass most men's,
especially when it comes to filling out a bikini. Last, and certainly
least, is Token Blackguy (Jamie Foxx), the promiscuous, hip hop
listenin', basketball playin', and doomed-to-die comedic relief. 

After completing a dazzling training mission filled with enough fast
cuts to induce a seizure, our trio is informed by the evil military
commander that a fourth member, piloting a new prototype plane, will
soon join their group. But the new pilot is no ordinary pilot. No, it's
actually a computerized, talking Times Square New Year's Eve Ball! And
his name, obviously ripped off some budding porn star, is "Extreme Deep
Invader" or EDI for short. EDI is the heart of the military's latest
and greatest weapon, the Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle (UCAV). He was
also designed and built by idiots, because instead of being programmed
to behave methodically, predictably, and controllably in the
battlefield, he actually learns on the fly, picking up such useful
skills like how to download illegal MP3s on the internet.

EDI is, of course, rushed into service during the hotshots' next
mission, and before you can say "HAL900", he gets struck by lightning,
goes all "Skynet" on them, becoming sentient. Luckily, his programmers
equipped him to display a graphical representation of a DNA double
helix being split for just such an occasion.

Soon afterward, the super team is scrambled to destroy some baddies
holed up in a castle in the middle-east before the arrival of some ox
carts bearing nukes (no, I'm not kidding). Despite orders telling him
to stand down due to a high collateral damage assessment, EDI lights up
the terrorists, spreading radioactive dust over the whole region. Not
satisfied, EDI decides to off and kill several targets programmed in
his hypothetical war scenario system, thrusting the plot forward into
the man versus evil machine story. I could swear I heard my 3 year old
say, "Saw that one coming." 

From this point, the movie leaves the land of popcorn-movie incongruity
and spirals into complete and utter implausibility. I won't go into too
much detail, but one of our heroes dies, one manages to invade Russian
airspace, shooting down 2 Russian jets sent to defend their homeland
(ensuring the start of WWIII), and the other somehow crashes down in
North Korea, requiring a rescue attempt that murders dozens of North
Korean border patrol. And what about evil EDI? What else; he develops a
conscience and sacrifices himself for the team, supposedly leaving you
with a heart warming feeling. It left me with heartburn. 

The abominable movie closes with the typical happy Hollywood ending
where Ben Gannon and Kara Wade exchange love vows. Ah, nothing like
true love to help forget about the impending apocalypse they just
ushered in by invading Russia and North Korea. 

You know, there are many ways to creatively describe hate. But the best
one in this case, unfortunately, is not entirely my own. I couldn't
help but think of one particular line in the cheesy dialog that, with a
little modification, could perfectly describe this movie. At one point,
in charge of maintaining EDI's brain, our stereotypical computer geek
with bad hair, clothes, and, most likely odor, describes EDI as a
"quantum sponge" that can learn at a geometric rate. Well, this movie
is like a "quantum vacuum". The longer you watch, the more it sucks at
a geometric rate.
<|_=00=_|>
Stealth is devoid of higher thinking (or maybe any thinking at all).
However it has couple of good things going for it:

1. Special effects are well-used. the planes and missiles and
explosions rock. the dog fights do not rely on editing but are given a
good effort.

2. Yes the premise is dumb - we assume correctly it would not be
supported by thoughtful investigation into the mechanics behind the
artificial pilot. However, the movie recognizes this fact and does not
pretend to have given the matter much thought. It is straight and
honest, though still mindless. But hey, that's alright sometimes.

3. The story is simple, but not linear - and that counts for a lot in a
movie of this type, because it is unexpected and not required. Stealth
has moments where it feels like an epic, albeit a mind-free one.

4. Have you noticed that it's often better to imply a romantic
sentiment between the main characters rather than slamming it in your
face, especially in an action movie which has precious little time to
develop the relationship to begin with? You haven't? Uh that's not
good... Anyway, Stealth doesn't kid us with a hasty obligatory romance
but gives its characters some room to maneuver between inter-pilot and
inter-personal relationships. What was the last summer popcorn movie
you can remember that similarly uh, respected our intelligence? I am
giving Stealth a lot of credit here. Let's just say if it insulted my
intelligence, I was happy to let it slide this time because I was
having a good time.

5. Ultimately Stealth is entertaining from beginning to end. It
"respects" our intelligence by not appearing to be smarter than dumb.
Stupid is less stupid when it doesn't pretend.

I hope you give this movie a chance, and notice how it differs in the
formula and execution from what you may have anticipated and from other
mindless summer blockbusters.

Thanks.
<|_=00=_|>
When I started watching this drivel the theme song from Team America:
World Police spontaneously started playing in my mind. It didn't go
away until I left the cinema, a sad and wiser man (although,
fortunately, not poorer, as someone else paid for me to see it).

I say sad, although I did laugh on numerous occasions. This was not the
laughter of joy; it was a kind of questioning "How did they get away
with this?" kind of laughter at the sheer randomness of the universe in
allowing this film to be made at all. From the clichéd white man/white
woman/black man team, to the cringe-worthy scenes of recreation. From
the amount of times the "superplanes" get damaged by debris from other
aircraft to the woman who manages to shoot several of her pursuers with
a random burst from her gun and force them to stop chasing her, despite
her injuries, exhaustion, their superior numbers, dogs, blah, blah,
blah - oh hold on, this is Team America Live Action. Now it makes
sense!

I'm not sure what the worst aspect of this film was. Was it the story?
The "hero" disobeys orders (leading to the AI plane disobeying orders
and unleashing a radioactive cloud over thousands of innocents) orders
his wingman to destroy the plane (leading to said wingman's death)
steals the plane after he makes up with it, and attacks the North
Korean border (as you might imagine, this potential start of an
international conflict isn't exactly resolved at the end of the film)
and _still_ gets the girl, and not a court-martial? Or is it the
atrocious dialogue, the acting (another area in which this film is on a
par with Team America)and the constant and pathetic use of clichés all
the way through?

I wish I could say that I was pleased that the expected ending (hero
shoots down the rogue plane and saves the day) didn't occur. But no!
They somehow managed to find a worse resolution! In a sense, this is
therefore a very special film, one so lacking in positives that it is a
lesson to all potential film-makers as to how not to create a cinema
experience. Unfortunately, there are likely to be a number of people
for whom the explosions are enough to sell it. Sadly, I cannot rate
this film as badly as I would like - the sight of the woman in a bikini
is probably the only good thing about it, but she isn't that
good-looking, it doesn't last long enough, and it very much does not
make up for the rest of it. Worse than either Sahara or National
Treasure (and that's saying something). This film was bad enough for me
to register on this site purely so I could advise people not to watch
it.

Don't watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
If you are in need for a good dose of action, this is the film for you.
By the end, you've had your "fix." Being someone who is fascinated by
the Stealth bomber, I enjoyed most of the action. Only the last 15
minutes was irritating in its stupid action, not that the previous
hour- plus was believable. At least it wasn't as ridiculous as those
final scenes with Josh Lucas defeating 10-15 guys at once and Jessica
Biel doing likewise. Lucas performs his "Kill Bill Vol. 1" routine at a
warehouse while Biels is in the wilds of North Korea. In future
viewings, I stop the movie before those parts.

The main story - human pilots flying Stealth bombers trying to stop a
pilot-less, state-of-the- art totally computerized-driven Stealth which
has gone wacky - is fun to watch. The latter is obviously very
reminiscent of the computer "Hal" in the famous sci-fi film "2001: A
Space Odyssey." There are more than just a few coincidences here as the
computer reads lips of the people, has a mind of its own, etc. The big
difference is that this updated-Hal has a heart, too. Yeah, it's really
far-fetched.

However, if you can put your brain on hold for two hours and just enjoy
some wild action shots, you'll enjoy this film. It's basically a fun
ride.
<|_=00=_|>
America's self-appointed mission, of course, is to rid the world of
threat and terror. Pursuing the the old adage that there's no defence
like offence, three uber pilots engage in flirting against the backdrop
of catastrophically implemented and egotistically actioned assaults on
all manner of cardboard terrorist types. The cast and crew of this FX
extravaganza were clearly on autopilot the whole way through. 

Our heroes bump off a selection of high ranking terror group leaders in
Myanmar by collapsing a high rise block in the centre of Rangoon, with,
impressively, no collateral damage, except to the ego of the AI plane
that has become their new, unwelcome wingman.

They manage to rumble a gang of Tajeekistanis with a cargo of
radioactive matter and explode it. No problem, the main thing is to
bring that god dam AI plane under control! It's gone mad you see, and
developed consciousness (which later develops into a conscience) and a
taste for nu-metal. It won't follow orders and is attacking targets of
its own choosing.

No matter then that the chase takes our triumvirate of stereotypical,
teeth-like-tombstone heroes into Russian airspace and requires them to
do battle with people whose airspace they have invaded in the first
place (because of a problem **of their own making**!) The thing is to
get that rogue plane under control - at any cost. Even if it means
bumping off the well-intentioned airbourne saviours of the universe in
the process.

This is where I started to feel genuinely sick. Yes, I know, it's
action, it's not real, it's harmless fun. I'm too old to be watching
this kind of movie etc etc.

I disagree. I thought the thinking behind this movie is a frightening
example of just why the 'war of terror' has panned out the way it has.
This film is a clear illustration of the ill thought out comic book
imagination of Bush and his middle America supporters writ large. It
is, if you think about it for more than a second, deeply disturbing.
Somehow it summed up for me the hypocrisy, short-termism and selective
amnesia of the West over recent years. Saddam used to be our friend?
Get outta here! America supported the Taliban in Afghanistan to oust
the Ruskies? Gettaway! They is da enemy! I digress.

The basic premise of 'We are the best, everyone else needs us to save
them, so let's go and pre-emptively kick their booties on their own
ground so we can all sleep at night' is wearing a little thin. Even the
most popcorn headed of movie goers above the age of 16 might have
thought that somehow this movie didn't feel quite right? 

That this film was made and released during the current climate is a
reflection on the general mindset of Hollywood. Don't get me wrong -
I'm all for people watching and making what they want - and if you
enjoyed the film then good for you, I'm taking it all far too
seriously. And I'm not on some anti-war rant either (altho I am
certainly not in favour of it). It just seems that there is a dark
subtext to this whole special affects caboodle that cannot, or really
should not, be ignored. Sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but this is
reconstituted cheese with an unsavoury centre.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start out be stating that this is absolutely not the movie of
the year. But I rather enjoyed it anyway because of the endless amount
cliché lines, the way you can't really tell if it's actually meant to
be a comedy or if it's supposed to be the action/scifi-movie of the
year. The perfect movie for the guy or gal who knows nothing about
computers, chemistry or the air force, and couldn't give a rats ass
what's wrong or right. The acting isn't much worse than what you'd
expect from a high school class, but don't expect not to be offended by
some terrible lines and acting jobs. Warning: This is not a movie
anyone should try to think about. Doing so will make you want to throw
up. Do not think about how the facts have been messed up. Do not think
about how the plot must have been written in the 80's and most of all:
Do not think of admitting to your friends you watched this movie and
liked it. All you have to do is fall back into the seat and enjoy
watching things blow up for an hour and 55 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the type of movie that you need to shutdown the brain and enjoy
the special effects, the beauty of Jessica Biel, the action scenes, the
chemistry of Josh Lucas, Jessica Biel and Jamie Foxx, the landscapes in
Thailand, the soundtrack But the most important, i.e., the plot itself
is very stupid and corny, and insults the intelligence of an audience
of average IQ. In about two hours, the ozone layer might be much
reduced, with the number of explosions in this story, in a world that
is not in war in this moment (just avoiding). The pilots invade North
Korea, Russia, and Alaska, explode, shoot, kill, but they are the "good
guys", aren't they? It is better off watching a video game without
playing. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "Stealth  Ameaça Invisível" ("Stealth  Invisible
Menace")
<|_=00=_|>
The best part of the movie for me, and the only parts that were
worthwhile were the scenes with Jessica Biel in the bikini, and at the
bar. She is just incredible to look at. Too bad she was in a flight
suite and helmet for most of it.

As for the film - putting aside the whole "robot comes to life" part -
I couldn't believe the politics of the movie. I don't think anything
this jingoistic has been made since 1945. First the robot comes to life
and flies into Russia. The Russians send up fighters to protect their
country. The American pilot barely thinks twice about killing them all
and I am sure doesn't lose any sleep over it. I was stunned to see
this, but okay he had to protect the living brain/robot I guess. But
then Jessica Biel apparently flies across China in about 5 minutes and
goes down in North Korea. Okay so I think now they have to have some
negotiations to get her out right? Wrong. The pretty boy pilot and his
trusty living brain-robot fly in blast dozens of Koreans who again were
just protecting their country to rescue Jessica. So the life of one
American is worth dozens of Koreans? I know Jessica is totally hot but
come on, some of those Koreans were just minding their own business on
border patrol and here comes an American jet and starts killing
anything moving. Did they show this movie overseas? It's this type of
thing that gives Americans a bad name. When people in a non WASP
country see this do they think it reflects the attitude of most
Americans? I think the producers should apologize to all the non-white
people on the planet for putting forward this type of message!
