
Saw a advance screening of this on Friday night. Hilarious doesn't do
the film justice. You know how in most films you remember the funniest
parts and bring them up as you leave the theater? This one, it's hard
to remember the best parts because there's so many of them.

Unlike his previous films, where Vince Vaughn is usually reduced to the
role of 'scene stealer', here we get a full dose of Babaganush, and
he's in his finest form since 'Swingers'. If you liked him in his
Swingers/Made persona, you'll love him here. Some of the riffs that he
has literally will have you holding your sides with laughter.

Owen Wilson is Owen Wilson. You either like him or you don't. He's more
of the straight man in this film, although he does have some pretty
good lines too, and he has great chemistry with Vaughn, especially in
the scenes where they're fighting. He's the ying to Vaughn's yang.

The movie certainly 'earns' it's R rating. There's a healthy dose of
nudity, sex related hijinks, and f-bombs. But it's not 'gross out'
humor a la American Pie. It pushes boundaries, but not just in a 'shock
value' way. It's genuinely funny.

I saw the movie with a bunch of critics, who usually the jaded type,
were laughing their asses of as well. Guys will love this movie and
will be quoting it for the rest of the year. Girls will love it too
though, and there is a romantic subplot (cheesy at times, but
forgivable given how funny the movie is), with Rachael McAdams doing a
great job as Owen Wilson's love interest. Isla Fischer plays the role
of 'scene stealer' in this one, serving as Vince Vaughn's psycho love
interest. And Chris Walken is Chris Walken.

So overall..inappropriate, hilarious and glorious. Better than
Oldschool. Way better than Anchorman. Best comedy of the year, maybe
the last couple of years.
<|_=00=_|>
The Frat-Pack, are surely the hardest working collective in Hollywood.
Hardly a month goes by without a movie featuring Ben Stiller, Vince
Vaughn, Jack Black, Will Ferrell, or those Wilson boys Luke and Owen
being released.

When Starsky and Hutch paired Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller it was good,
when Dodgeball put Vince Vaughn with Ben Stiller it was better, but
"Wedding Crashers" could well be the finest Frat-Pack pairing to date.

Although Wilson and Vaughn have appeared in four movies together so
far, this is the first where they've both taken star billing. In
"Wedding Crashers", John Beckwith (Wilson) and Jeremy Klein (Vaughn),
are a pair of divorce mediators whose passion in life is sneaking into
weddings to take advantage of the free food.. and of course score with
girls.

They have a strict 'crashers rulebook', which dictates the etiquette of
the pick-up, such as 'never use your real name'. It also suggests, by
behaving raucously, loudly and generally being the life-and-soul,
people will think you're so obnoxious, you can't not have been invited.

The pair eventually find themselves at odds with each other when John
meets and falls for a bridesmaid at the Washington society wedding of
the year.

Although "Wedding Crashers" is at times formulaic, the comic
performances raise this movie above par and in lesser hands the main
characters could have descended into Rom-Com cliché. The fast-talking
machine-gun delivery of Vaughn is the perfect accompaniment to Wilson's
laconic style. Their single-guy banter's often painfully accurate, as
is the acknowledgement they're both a little too old to be acting so
carelessly. There are also some great comic set-pieces too, notably the
divorce meeting, the weddings montage, the cringe-worthy football game
and the hunting trip.

The supporting cast are also an asset, Christopher Walken expertly
walks the tightrope of being both broodingly intimidating and likable,
while Rachel McAdams' 'Claire' has a charming vulnerability and an
easy-to-fall-in love with quality. Former "Home and Away" pin-up Isla
Fisher however, is less convincing.

I admit "Wedding Crashers" is far from perfect, at time situations seem
too contrived, the nudity is laughably gratuitous, and Claire's evil
fiancée Sack (Bradley Cooper) is an almost too heavy-handed device to
make Wilson look good.

But if you can look past all that, and simply accept it for what it is,
you're left with a very funny film. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie will never win an Oscar, but it still surprised me and
became my favorite summer movie this year. The plot, as in all good
summer comedies, is simple. Two guys who crash weddings to pick up
woman have zany adventures and learn a little something along the way.
The real fun of this movie is in the actors, who deliver their
performances perfectly. Owen Wilson is the aging California surfer type
who may be ready to move on with his life. Vince Vaughn is his best
friend who frequently acts like a spoiled, horny child but is actually
a good guy. Christopher Walken is the slightly scary father of the love
interest. So if you have seen Wilson in Shanghai Noon and Vaughn in
Swingers and Walken in, well almost anything he has ever made, then you
have seen these characters before. But still, they just work well
together here. The movie contains just enough real emotion to keep you
caring and enough absurdity and broad physical comedy to keep you
laughing. This isn't Shakespeare, but it is funny. Highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
This could have been a shocking buddy movie, but the writing, the
comedic performances and the simple concept, make this my favourite
comedy of the year.

Divorce mediators John Beckwith (Owen Wilson) and Jeremy Grey (Vince
Vaughn) are business partners and longtime friends who share a strange
hobby, crashing weddings.

With intricate planning of back stories, the pair crash Jewish, Itaian,
Irish, Chinese, even Hindu weddings, always with an answer for that
question of "And you are".?

Wedding crashing has rules, handed down from one generation to the next
:

"Invites are for losers", "Make sure she's single", "Never use your
real name", "Dance like you mean it", "Free drinks, why not?", "If you
can't cry, fake it!" and the most important; "Never leave a fellow
crasher behind"

Though a kaleidescope of parties, we glimpse the whirlwind nature of
wedding crashing. John and Jeremy aren't just out on the make, though
the girls are their ultimate goal. They are sympathetic characters.
Being the life of the party attracts the women, but these guys really
do love the food, the bands, entertaining the kids and dressing up in
their suits. Not only are they Wedding Crashers, they are Wedding
experts.

The ultimate crashing challenge comes when the daughter of the Treasury
Secretary (Christopher Walken) and he wife (Jane Seymor) is getting
married in what is sure to be the social event of the year.

Of course, our friends find that this might just be a wedding too far,
especially when they are invited to an extended weekend celebration at
the Secretarys' home.

The fun really begins and I shall stop telling you what is going on as
the ins and outs of this film are delightful. Jane Seymor has a
marvellous scene with Owen Wilson and there are many moments you want
to berry your head in the shoulder of the person next to you to stop
laughing too loudly.

This is my favourite comedy of the year so far.
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent comedy, Vince Vaughn is a gifted comedian. He kept "Old
School" going, was the only light in a dismal "Mr. and Mrs. Smith", and
had a terrific debut lead in "Swingers". I highly recommend people
considering this movie, to watch the extras on the DVD; there is a
karaoke scene at an Asian wedding which will have you rolling. It is a
shame it was cut from the movie, but as the director's comments stated,
"They just couldn't find a place where it would fit." I was very
pleasantly surprised at the number of times I laughed out loud, a
rarity for me while watching comedies. The lines were witty, the
delivery was crisp, and the jokes were mostly new and fresh. Rachel
McAdams was stunning, an excellent casting choice to play the object of
Owen Wilson's desire. Despite the more or less rehashed plot (two guys
lie about themselves to meet women, only to find that they now have a
dilemma when they find 2 they really like), the film is nonetheless
novel and original. There are a number of obviously stereotypical
characters, (drunken grandmother, artistic introverted son, psychotic
cheating boyfriend, immoral mother, powerful father), but they work in
this film. Particularly the grandmother, who is prone to drunken
scatological exclamations, had me laughing my head off. It was quite
unexpected.

Although many of the situations could come off as contrived, they were
secondary to the excellent repartee between Wilson and Vaughn. Their
comic pairing worked to a T.

R.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie lives through Vaughn and Wilson. Both show an easy performance
and want the audience to just simply have a good time.

The Story is nothing spectacular. If you liked "Meet the Fockers",
you're gonna like this one as well.

Its the actors, who make the difference. Vaughn is hilarious and
proofs, that he's much better in comedies than in "serious" movies.
Wilson plays himself (as in every one of his movies) and scores a good
2nd place.

Walken is just Walken and thats worth half the ticket. The girls are
gorgeous. Especially Rachel McAdams knocked me out. Holy Cow! The
Crashers are good fun. Not an new invention of the genre, but
especially because of the actors, this movie rocks!
<|_=00=_|>
Wedding Crashers is the latest installment in the new, over-the-top
comedies cut from the same cloth as Old School or Meet The Parents. It
will take it's rightful place in history along side these great
comedies as it deserves.

Business partners John Beckwith (Owen Wilson) and Jeremy Grey (Vince
Vaughn) are also best friends that go way back. Every year they get
together and go on a binge of crashing weddings to take advantage of
the romance in the air and ultimately, to score with the jealous
bridesmaids, or any other single woman for that matter. John and Jeremy
are very smooth and do a lot of research to get a back-story that
explains who they are, how they are connected to the families and why
they are there. They also have what seems to be at least a hundred
rules to ensure the crashing of the wedding goes as planned and of
course, this could not be possible without the original wedding
crasher, Chaz (Will Ferrell), who is not only THE wedding crasher, but
also an innovator, as you will see.

This all works very well for them until they decide to crash the
wedding of weddings, Secretary Cleary's (Christopher Walken) daughter
and her new husband-to-be. John was unable to achieve his goal at the
Cleary wedding of establishing a relationship with his other daughter,
Claire (Rachel McAdams), who he is also falling in love with. Jeremy,
too, is having his problems after achieving his goal with the
Secretary's other daughter, Gloria (Isla Fisher), perhaps a bit too
quickly, as he finds out it was her first time and she quickly attaches
herself.

The long story made short, both John and Jeremy end up on an extended
weekend with the Cleary family and hilarity ensues, very much the same
way Ben Stiller was put in uncomfortable positions by his fiancé's
family in Meet The Parents.

This was a great comedy in which I have heard compared to There's
Something About Mary. I would not place it on such an iconic platform
but it was very good and holds it's own along with other great comedies
of today. Vaughn and Owen are a great team. Will Ferrell is typical
Will Ferrell in his small bit part as Chaz. Christopher Walken's part
was too small to really be noticed. Isla Fisher played the psycho
first-timer in such a way that it even scared me.

The biggest surprise of this movie for me was Rachel McAdams. I took
notice of her in Mean Girls and I believed she would be typecast in
such roles for probably her whole career but she proved she could carry
a movie as the lead love interest and was very captivating with her
gorgeous smile.

If you liked the movies mentioned in this review, then I highly
recommend seeing this one as well. It will not disappoint. 8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
John Beckwith and Jeremy Grey are committed bachelors who enjoy their
womanising ways. They specialise in crashing weddings and picking up
women for one night stands by taking advantage of their lower defences.
Countless scores of women later, John is getting tired but the offer of
"one last big job" tempts him back to crash the wedding of Treasury
Secretary Cleary's daughter. Things go well until John falls for Claire
Cleary while Jeremy finds himself trapped with the frighteningly clingy
Gloria as the pair accept an invitation back to the weekend retreat of
the Cleary family.

This did not appear strong enough to draw me into the cinema on its
release but, on an trans-Atlantic flight it looked like being good
enough to fill some time  which is actually a pretty fair summary of
the film's strengths and weaknesses. I say this because it is funny
enough to cover the problems that it has and thus will serve up as an
enjoyable experience if you're relaxed enough to let this happen. The
strengths lie in the lead two characters  they banter, they are lively
and they are funny. Funny enough to cover up the fact that they are
exploitative and sexual predators and funny enough to mean that the
scenes where they are doing their thing are generally enjoyable. Of
course it helps that Wilson and Vaughn are both doing their thing as
usually and have great chemistry together  good news if you usually
like them but, if you don't, then why bother? The weaknesses come in
with the actual story because, every time someone has to fall in love
with someone else, the laughs stop, the pace slows and the whole thing
takes on a mushy air that doesn't gel that well with the banter scenes.
Likewise the plot devices in the second hour tend to feel a little
forced where they are just used to provide direction and create a
proper ending etc. This doesn't mean it is terrible but it cannot be a
good thing when you actively wish the plot would take a backseat in a
film. The support cast share the comedy reasonably well; McAdams is
cool and appealing, Fisher is a bit OTT but is funny, Seymour plays on
her sexy image really well while Walken is reliable as ever as
Christopher Walken.

Overall this is an enjoyable if patchy comedy. It trades on the usual
delivery and chemistry between Wilson and Vaughn and the two do well to
produce the film's best scenes when they are together. The need for a
plot, romance and separation does hurt the film a little (because it is
not as good as the aimless banter) but not a massive amount. Not a
great comedy then but certainly good enough to please anyone who liked
Anchorman, Dodgeball and other films of similar styles of humour.
<|_=00=_|>
John Beckwith (Owen Wilson) and Jeremy Grey (Vince Vaughn) are
life-long friends who have made a hobby out of lying to get into
wedding receptions, where they pick up vulnerable women with even more
lies. Their plans to crash the upscale wedding of a high-profile
politician (Christopher Walken) go awry when John falls in love with
the politician's daughter (Rachel McAdams) and the two guys end up
spending the weekend with her familywho just happen to be completely
nuts! 

Wedding Crashers is easily the funniest film of 2005. It's constantly
hilarious and it's not completely immature. The premise is pretty
creative and original. The film is not just filled with cheap jokes and
toilet humor. There's actually a pretty mature love story to be found
here as well. In all honestly, the script isn't that great but the film
works really well because of the cast. The actors bring life into their
characters and most of them give funny performances. Vince Vaughn is
the true star of Wedding Crashers. His over the top performance is very
funny. Some people may find him annoying though. Owen Wilson also gives
a funny performance. He just wasn't as good as Vince but he holds his
own. Together, Vaughn and Wilson have great chemistry and really make
their scenes with one another really funny.

Rachel McAdams is one of the best young actresses working today. She
appeared in three movies in 2005 and this one was the best. Her
performance is pretty good and it's so easy to love this girl.
Christopher Walken does his usual routine and he gives an okay
performance. He isn't as funny as everyone else though. Isla Fisher is
also another talented young actress. She comes out of no where and
gives a very funny performance. Jane Seymour is underused which is too
bad because she's pretty funny. Bradley Cooper was okay, nothing really
special though. Not all of the film is perfect. I think the running
time is too long. Long comedies rarely work out and while this one
does, it could have still been edited. Also, the ending is kind of
cheesy which is okay but a little unexpected. Will Ferrell makes a
cameo and let's just say that it was not needed. It wasn't completely
bad but he seemed to be trying way too hard. I really think that he's
just an average comedian and nothing really special. One last thing,
the film is pretty funny yet it doesn't have that great of a repeat
value, at least for me. In the end, Wedding Crashers is worth checking
out. Rating 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I lasted just over an hour into this movie before my girlfriend and I
rolled our eyes for about the 50th time and decided it was time to
leave. The point we left was when the one kid rolled into bed with
Vince Vaughn which was, to me, the last straw in a long line of cheesy,
over the top corny scenes that were put into this movie to get the most
dimwitted audience members to laugh uncontrollably.

I found it funny in the theater we watched it in because one half of
the theater didn't laugh once throughout the entire time that we were
there, yet the people on the right were howling from start to finish.
Was the ventilation pumping something into the air on that side of the
theater? Looking back, it seemed as though this movie was written for
its shock value alone. I think the writers of this crap-fest basically
thought to themselves, while writing, "hmm, what is the most outlandish
thing we could have happen here" and then wammo, enter low brow
slapstick humour to the extreme.

The first twenty minutes or so, I felt as though I was watching an
extended trailer for the movie. It was like watching a train wreck, I
just couldn't look away (until we finally up and left). Thank God we
had coupons, because I don't think I would have been able to look
myself in the mirror ever again having known I had spent money on
watching this movie.

Like star wars episodes 1,2 and 3, this is a movie is at its best in
the preview. Why waste 2 hours or so watching the entire movie when you
can do it in 2 minutes.
