
Not since Primal Fear have I seen a court room thriller that was really
good. Given the actors, I suppose you can't really go wrong. Usually I
can find some actor or actress that wasn't very good, bothered me in
some way or was flat out horrible. This movie featured superb acting by
all those involved. Even Jeremy Piven (who I can't help but picture as
the Dean in Old School or his characters from PCU or Very Bad Things)
delivered a respectable performance, and very different from the other
movies mentioned.

Runaway Jury doesn't throw in a lot of needless plot twists and
unexpected happenings just for the sake of throwing off or fooling the
viewer. In fact, it pretty much goes in the direction you think it
will, with only a couple of exceptions which are needed. 

I'm usually the type that likes my movies to get it all done in around
90 minutes or so. Seems to me that most movies that go over 2 hours
have a lot of needless "filler" material for no real reason, which,
more often than not, results in slow, dragging scenes in the movie or
just a boring movie altogether. This particular movie clocked in at
just over 2 hours and used every minute wisely. Nothing boring and
nothing seemed to drag on forever. I found the beginning with the jury
selection particularly interesting. I thought the whole concept of
knowing how to get exactly who you want on your jury, even before they
actually show up to jury duty, was a little mind blowing. After seeing
those scenes, I knew it was going to be a great movie. I highly
recommend this movie, especially if you enjoyed movies like Primal
Fear, although this is a completely different movie with different
kinds of surprises.

Overall, Gene Hackman stole the show in this one and proves why he's
been working in movies and television for over 40 years now. I give
this 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Well acted yet flimsy adaptation of the John Grisham novel lacks a well
rounded script to carry itself but has an amazing cast that lifts this
mediocre film past its problems and into respectability. The script has
way too many loop holes in logic to even take what you are seeing
seriously and the directing lacks a sharp narrative to get across what
it's trying to say. The acting is the only major thing that this film
excels on and with out it, this would have been a cable movie of the
week at best. Gene Hackman is great as a jury consultant who would stop
at nothing to win a case and Rachel Weisz is amazing as his adversary
in and out of the courtroom. Dustin Hoffman is great as well but he is
not in the movie as much as advertise and John Cusack is decent for the
role he has. The biggest fault the movie does have is the fact that
certain plot points disappear during the course of the film as well as
characters. It's a great way to spend two hours of your time,
especially with the great performances of Gene Hackman and Rachel Weisz
to keep you glued to what is happening but the movie has a lot of
glaring problems that makes it hard to sit though in certain parts.

<|_=00=_|>

Decent but very flawed film that has so many points to it that it can't
be categorize in simply good or bad. 

The Good: Some of the performances are spectacular and deserving of a
much better movie than this. Gene Hackman hasn't been this good in
ages, and he's one of the few reasons that this movie is watchable. The
next reason is Rachel Weisz, who is the only actor Hackman has had in
quite some time that is his equal in performance and in acting prowess.
She is so good in fact that she does almost steal the film from him and
then some. The city of New Orleans is a fascinating setting for this
film but wrong because it's not the original setting of the book. 

The Bad: Dustin Hoffman is not really in the movie and is really a
minor character in the whole story. Which is too bad because he's such
a charismatic actor and deserves a much bigger role than what he had.
The next problem is the whole spy versus spy angle that makes the whole
film into a joke because no one would go that far to rig a jury,
especially in a case that would have been thrown out of a real court
with the facts that was presented in the film. Which leads toÂ….

The Ugly: The script is really bad. How bad you say? It took almost
four writers to outline the story, which bare in mind does not follow
the book at all. The dialog is great in places and bad in others, and
the whole structure of the film is paper-thin which is easily to blow
holes thru. The story runs out of gas in the half way point of the film
and the ideas express seems more like a bias view of what the law
should be than a realistic view of what the law really is. I think the
biggest offence the movie makes is changing the text of the original
novel and making about guns other than big tobacco. John Grisham's
original novel was hugely entertaining and down right poignant in its
views about justice. This film seems like it has not idea where it's at
from time to time and lacks a coherent narrative to even try to explain
the stuff that is going on right in front of you.

Even with the good points, the bad does out weight the good here. It's
a decent film because of the acting of Rachel Weisz and Gene Hackman
but they like the viewer are let down with a script that lacks
conviction for the subject it covers and a real point of view that
expresses the feelings of the reality of the gun issue.

<|_=00=_|>
Nicholas Easter (John Cusack) is desperate to get on this jury. With a
high powered Gun Manufacturer, at risk of being held responsible for
selling the guns that are used in crime, the question is why.

Gene Hackman is brought in for the defence as a jury consultant, who is
at ease with digging up dirt and manipulating jurors, to get the
results he wants.

And Rachel Weisz is an outsider, pulling Easters strings. As the stakes
get higher, there is no doubt that this Jury is For Sale, but will the
highest bidder win.

Hackman, Weisz and Cusack are all on top form for this one, but
Hoffman's Character seemed to lack a little depth.

Basically a good thriller, that is worth watching, but don't expect too
much, you might feel let down.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This was a movie that wasn't over-hyped, filled with talented actors
and kept you watching all the way through. My rating is maybe a little
generous but at the time just after watching it was one of most
enjoyable movies I have watched for a long time, and I watch a lot
(maybe too much ;) Hackman was flawless as usual as an actor and once
again maintained his great screen presence. Hoffman really portrayed
the idealistic lawyer character well. Weisz played the female lead with
the right mix of the strong and vulnerable. And Cusack, well I consider
him an intelligent actor. He looked once again intelligent, thoughtful
in his acting. The plot twists were not overdone but did offer some
slight surprises which were hinted at along the way if you payed
attention. Overall I'd recommend this movie to anyone, especially those
who take their movies seriously.

<|_=00=_|>

'Runaway Jury' is one of the best movies based on a John Grisham novel.
The best is still 'The Rainmaker', probably because Francis Ford
Coppola was the director who could work with a perfect ensemble of
actors. Other Grisham adaptations have had terrific ensembles as well.
'The Firm' (1993) starred Tom Cruise, Gene Hackman, Ed Harris, Jeanne
Tripplehorn and Holly Hunter, 'A Time to Kill' did it with Samuel L.
Jackson, Matthhew McConaughey, Sandra Bullock, Kevin Spacey, Donald
Dutherland, Kiefer Sutherland, Chris Cooper, Oliver Platt and Ashley
Judd, and 'The Rainmaker' had to do it with only Matt Damon, Danny
DeVito, Claire Danes, Jon Voight, Mickey Rourke, Mary Kay Place and
Danny Glover.

Now here is 'Runaway Jury', starring John Cusack, Gene Hackman (in his
third Grisham-movie), Dustin Hoffman and Rachel Weisz, a courtroom
thriller that has suspense, keeps our attention and knows how to
surprise. The good thing is that the movie seems to have no real good
guy or girl. Hackman is Rankin Fitch, a guy who spies on possible
jurors to make sure he chooses the right jury for his employers. The
way he does this make his the real bad guy. John Cusack is Nick Easter.
He becomes a juror in a case that deals with guns and how their
manufacturers are responsible for people getting killed. Fitch is on
the side of the manufacturers, on the other side we have lawyer Wendell
Rohr (Dustin Hoffman). He represents a woman who wants to sue the
gun-manufacturers because her husband was killed by one of their guns.

At first the movie seems to be a courtroom drama but then we learn that
juror Nick Easter has his own agenda. He wanted to be in that jury for
something and his girlfriend Marlee (Rachel Weisz) has a lot to do with
that. Nick and Marlee want to give the verdict to the person, Fitch or
Rohr, who is willing to give them the highest amount of money. Fitch is
interested right away but tries to prevent this in a lot of ways, Rohr
slowly realizes that he has to make an offer as well since Marlee and
Nick are able to show that they really own the jury. To tell you too
much could spoil things for you, so this is enough for the plot.

With real suspense this movie keeps our attention and makes us forget
that at some times things are not very plausible. There were moments I
could have asked questions but during the movie I was not thinking
about them, only after it was finished I realized that certain events
simply had to happen to keep the movie going. The way the movie just
kept on going made sure we were not even able to think about possible
flaws. It was interesting the entire time.

Director Gary Fleder ('Kiss the Girls', 'Don't Say a Word') has made
his best thriller to date with the help of a nice story and some
terrific performances. Cusack is able to do almost anything, Hoffman
and Hackman are always reliable actors and sexy Weisz is perfect as the
mysterious Marlee. Completely different from 'The Rainmaker', but
almost as good as that one.

<|_=00=_|>

Good but a bit disappointing adaptation to the John Grisham thriller
does not follow the book the way it should be, and lacks the momentum
of the court proceedings that follow. The acting is first rate with
Rachel Weisz and Gene Hackman being the standouts in a cast that
includes Dustin Hoffman John Cusack, and Bruce Davidson. Weisz and
Hackman's performances are of Oscar quality, despite the fact that the
movie is not up to their caliber of acting. The setting is a little out
of the way, and the pacing is a little off with scenes that go way to
fast but the film is ultimately save by the acting by all involved,
most of which is credited to Weisz and Hackman.

2 stars for Weisz and Hackman but don't expect anything close to the
book.

<|_=00=_|>
I must confess the main reason I adore this movie is because of Rachel
Weisz, who is not only such a hottie in this film, but is absolutely
perfect in her role as "Marlee". Oh, and John Cusack is very good as
well. The plot is not straightforward and the twists keep this from
degenerating into a formulaic trial movie. The tension builds steadily.
Gene Hackman makes an excellent bad guy as the lawyer for the gun
industry and there are several good supporting roles, especially that
of Bruce Mc Gill, as the judge. The only black mark on the film is
Dustin Hoffman, who is either badly miscast or else just can't act
anymore. I have seen this movie at least 10 times and I enjoy it every
time.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS Hollywood loves adapting popular books. Whether it's classics,
modern stories or the collective works of particular authors, films are
forever being produced with adapted screenplays. One author who seems
to be used a lot is intellectual writer John Grisham. Normally setting
his stories in American courtrooms, his stories are often complex and
twist based with strong resolutions. 'Runaway Jury' is no exception and
in 2003, the film was turned into a feature film starring Gene Hackman
and John Cusack. Well acted by everyone involved, it is an entertaining
piece of work which leaves you thinking throughout before sticking on a
conclusion you might well have predicted beforehand, but which you
still enjoy seeing it reach.

In a landmark trial, a woman is taking the gun companies to court for
compensation after a major family loss. Leading the defence for the gun
companies is the constantly victorious Rankin Finch (Gene Hackman). A
regular at fixing juries in his favour, Finch finds himself facing a
challenge this time when a couple, one a jury member (John Cusack) and
one working behind the scenes (Rachel Weisz) decide to make money out
of the same skills Finch employs so successfully.

Whether Hackman, Cusack or Weisz, you don't see many moments in this
film when the acting isn't superb. Regaining a form not seen for a fair
few years, Hackman in particular is brilliant as a man who exploits the
system for his own gain. He is closely challenged however by both
Cusack and Weisz who give admirable performances in their respective
roles.

The film as a whole is also incredibly clever. Leading you in multiple
directions, the constant game of 'cat and mouse' is brilliantly played
out with some noticeable surprises as well as some rather unexpected
ones.

It's true that there are moments when the story drags slightly and you
find yourself feeling a bit bored, but the majority of the time the
story is fast flowing and incredibly entertaining.

Anyway, whatever your complaints about the script, the story is mostly
entertaining and well acted. Led by a superb performance by Gene
Hackman, when it's on a high the film is up there with the finest
thrillers around in years. It's well worth watching, even if you
normally can't stand this sort of film.
<|_=00=_|>

This review is targeted at those who have read John Grisham's novel and
might want to know how the movie compares to the book.

The largest and most controversial difference between the two is that
while the trial in the book was about holding tobacco companies
responsible for cigarette advertising, addiction, and lung cancer, the
trial in the movie is a case of holding firearms companies responsible
for encouraging guns to be sold to criminals. While the book centers
around the law, as all Grisham novels do, the movie centers around gun
control. Therefore, the movie can be quite political. Those who do not
appreciate political statements in movies beware.

The movie spends a lot more time on Wendall Rohr and Rankin Fitch, the
plantiff's lawyer and the defendant's jury consultant. While Rohr is a
flat character hardly mentioned in the book, the movie characterizes
him as a man who still possesses some sense of the ideal practice of
law. Fitch, pitiable and even slightly likable in the book, is shown
as an utterly malicious man in the movie. The members of the jury are
definitely not shown much in the movie. We don't get to watch exactly
how Nicholas Easter befriends each one individually, and we are told
less about each jury member. The psychology that is in the book is
largely absent from the movie and replaced with a few scenes of
dramatic flair.

The casting of the movie was GREAT. When I heard there was a Runaway
Jury movie, I immediately imagined John Cusack as Nicholas Easter.
Rachel Weisz, Dustin Hoffman, Gene Hackman, and the actors who play
members of the jury are almost as I pictured them as well! Because of
this change in theme, the movie is much darker than the book. Extreme
violence and arson make their way into jury manipulation. Fitch becomes
a much more malevolent character. The ways in which members of the jury
are bumped or released from jury duty are much darker than in the book.
Little details that were altered to adapt to gun control instead of
tobacco are interesting and appropriate. The movie is a different but
well-done adaptation. Even if you don't enjoy the movie, it is
interesting to compare it to the book.

