
As a sequel, it had much to live up to the glory of the first film, and
personally, I thought it had done rather well. The special effects on
Bill Nighy (Davey Jones) and his pirate crew was perhaps the best; it
was very realistic. The movie had a bit of a slow start, but overall
was a wonderful film. Johnny Depp did well in his portrayal of Captain
Jack Sparrow, as previously in the first film. Keira Knightley and Bill
Nighy were also of mentionable performances. I thought Orlando Bloom
was a little wooden, as I thought of his performance in the first film,
but still believable and he managed to pull it off. The ending which
was rather interesting, served its purpose in suspense. It left the
audience hanging, and it also left me hanging in a buzz of questions.
I'm extremely eager to see the next Pirates of Caribbean film. However,
the film did contain quite a number of references to the first film,
The Curse of the Black Pearl, and I advise you to recap your knowledge
of the first film and re-watch it to get the gist. 

Overall, I believed the second Pirates of Carribbean was a rather good
film, and very successful in standards of sequels. I can't wait for the
third.
<|_=00=_|>
I just came out of the movie 30 minutes ago (as it was released a day
before America over here).

The movie is visually stunning - the CGI is top rate and you won't
spend the whole film groaning about how fake things appear on the
screen.

Acting was brilliant. Johnny Depp once again proves why he's the only
man alive who can play the role of Cap. Jack Sparrow. There's a great
number of returning characters from the first film - including a couple
I was very happy to see again.

My only fault was perhaps that this film lack a certain 'heart' that
the first film had, which I believe came because the first film was
something very different, which of course this film couldn't contend
with.

That aside, you will hardly notice it. There's a good plot, wonderful
sets, great acting and plenty of laughs. One of the best films I've
seen all year thus far - can't wait for the 3rd one!
<|_=00=_|>
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest does the right thing as a
sequel: It maintains the same carefree spirit of the original and
creates an even more fitting story to the whole Pirates lore. After
narrowly escaping the gallows--with the help of his friends Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley)--and reclaiming
his cursed Black Pearl, it still seems Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny
Depp) has a few more fish to fry. More specifically the
barnacle-encrusted undead on board the ghostly Flying Dutchman, lead by
Mr. Octopus Face himself, Davy Jones (Bill Nighy). Jack apparently owes
a blood debt to the inky captain and if he can't find a way out of
it--namely locating the secret contents of Jones' famed locker--Sparrow
will be doomed to eternal damnation and servitude in the afterlife
(insert Jack Sparrow's face of disgust here). Making matters worse,
Sparrow's problems manage to interfere with the wedding plans of Will
and Elizabeth, who are forced to join Jack on yet another one of his
misadventures.

Depp's Oscar-nominated performance as Captain Jack is still a marvel in
slovenly pirate behavior, with his slurred speech, swaying swagger and
slack, waving arms. But whether channeling famed Rolling Stones'
guitarist Keith Richards or not, it's the duality of the character that
continues to intrigue us. He is a lusty, fearless man with a deeply
defiant and somewhat sneaky streak but whose delicate features, long,
dread locked hair, Kohl-rimmed eyes and almost girly mannerisms give
him a subtly effeminate air that belies his macho antics. This time
around, young Brits Knightley and Bloom have a little more to do, with
Elizabeth's growing attraction to Jack and Will's reunion with his
father, Bill "Bootstrap" Turner (Stellan Skarsgård), who's soul is
stuck on the Flying Dutchman. And Nighy (Love Actually) once again
makes his mark as an effective villain, infusing his rather quirky
acting ticks--the laconic delivery, the laid-back attitude--which
shines through all the special effects make-up. Let's just say, Nighy
certainly rivals Depp in the arrogant rock star stance, even if he has
tentacles for a face.

The other thing Dead Man's Chest does right is make things bigger and
better. From a hair-raising sword fight on top of a spinning water
wheel to the way Davy Jones and his crew look--all water logged and
crustacean-like--the film's production value is simply amazing.
Returning producer Jerry Bruckheimer and director Gore Verbinski make
sure the action sequences, the sets, the costumes, the make-up and the
special effects give the audience a familiarity to the original while
also taking them on a whole new adventure. And if you are a fan of the
Disney park attraction (the one at Disneyland, not Disney World), the
elements that got missed in the first one--the creepy bayou, the
beating heart in the treasure chest--are in this sequel. Dead Man's
Chest does lag a bit from time to time, especially in heating up the
Jack, Elizabeth and Will love triangle. But that's OK. We enjoy
watching their banter, as much as we do the rest of it. And for those
who'll want more adventure after the movie ends, Dead Man's Chest gives
us a promise the third installment will be just as much pirate fun.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I will firstly say that after seeing the trailer and previews for this
film I had serious doubts. I was afraid that the producers would just
try to cash in on the original's success, and forget about any content.

I was pleasantly proved wrong.

This is the most fun I've had in the cinema in the longest time. I
can't remember the last time I was so entertained.

Although it is a bit slow at times, and a bit predictable (although fun
in it's predictability), it hardly lets up and continuously entertains.

If you loved the original, you will DEFINITELY love this film. The
ending not only makes you laugh, it makes you think "What the hell?"
and will make you eagerly anticipate (major understatement) the third
installment.

There are some great lines, the same fun characters, an inventive and
fun story, and some brilliantly staged action sequences.

In summation: SEE IT! See it on the big screen. If you miss it, you
will surely regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I will make my comments without spoilers so that people who haven't yet
seen the movie can read it.

One of the worst things that can happen in a sequel to a successful
movie is that audiences will feel like they're seeing the same movie
again with slight variations on the theme. Dead Man's Chest gives us
all the characters we loved in the first movie, but puts them in a
refreshingly original movie. The action sequences will keep you on the
edge of your seat. And there are more laugh-out-loud moments in this
movie than in most comedies. I felt entertained from the beginning
right through to the special scene after the closing credits. In fact,
I enjoyed it so much that I and my entire family will be going to see
it again today.

For parents with young children: This movie is more violent than the
first movie. There is a lot of killing, though none of it is shown
close up or in a grisly manner. Davey Jones and his gang are very
gross. In the screening I attended, there were a lot of "Ewwww!"s from
the audience. If you have sensitive young ones, you should probably
leave them at home.
<|_=00=_|>
If I hadn't spent $8 to get into the theater I would have left this
movie about half way through. But I stayed, hoping it would eventually
get better  no such luck. 

I think Disney let their idea people get out of control. The movie just
got too crowded with special effects and totally goofy plot twists,
which eventually robbed a good cast of any opportunity to actually act.
Davey Jones and his crew are so over-endowed with gimmicks squirming
over their bodies that they ended up more being more distracting than
entertaining. And why did the director need to get so focused on being
as gross as possible? Instead of gratuitous sex Disney gives us
gratuitous slime. Johnny Depp nibbling on a necklace made of human toes
was something I didn't get; I didn't need it, and neither did the
movie.

Compared to the first film, Dead Man's Chest was a let down. I can't
think of any redeeming qualities, except maybe that it is making a few
people a lot of money.
<|_=00=_|>
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest 

reviewed by Sam Osborn

rating: 3.0 out of 4

More, more, more seems to be the theme running through Pirates of the
Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest. There's more adventure, more violence,
more pirates, and more myth. Not to mention that two and a half hour
running length. But while Superman Returns may have dragged some in its
150 minutes, Pirates hurtles along at a pace only expected from the
offspring of a Disneyland theme-ride, rarely slowing for piddling bits
of nonsense like, oh say, story. Of course, story's not the point of
these flicks and it surely doesn't have to be. There's entertainment
enough to be had without all the other hodgepodge. And Pirates 2, for
all its expansion, manages to dodge common sequelitis pitfalls. It
doesn't overdose on a memorable character from the original (cough,
Matrix Revolutions, cough) or over-broaden it's scope (cough, Matrix
Reloaded,cough). Dead Man's Chest is a continuation of the original
Pirates adventure, just with a couple extra unmarked sails tacked onto
its deck. 

The plot has something to do with ole' Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny
Depp, of course) and his debt to Davy Jones (Bill Nighy). Debts, as
we've all learned by now, are not things Mr. Sparrow is most proficient
at repaying. The Dead Man's Chest factors in as it holds Mr. Jones'
beating heart, which was ravaged by the likes of a lady whom he loved
in the past. The English Navy blowhards also seem to be after the
chest, and blackmail William Turner (Orlando Bloom) to seek out Capt.
Jack's magic compass, which supposedly points toward the treasure. Held
in a cell is Will's fiancé, Elizabeth Swan (Kiera Knightley), under
charges of assisting Capt. Jack in the franchise's last swashbuckler.
What it boils down to is a mottled mess of a chase to find the key to
Davey Jones' chest, and avoiding his gargantuan beast, the Kraken. 

The myth itself wrings deeper than the original's, with Davey Jones and
his seafood cohorts rendered with an unholy amount of CGI goodness to
make them squirm convincingly in all their scaly, slippery evil. But
the plot doesn't hold much water, same as the first, though plot was
never the point. As long as it paints a tastily mythological backdrop
for our pirates to plunder, we're kept smiling. And even though the
picture has all the weight of a paperclip, the franchise has at least
matured since it's last time around. The mood has thickened and no
longer can we tell that the film is a shameless translation of its
Disneyland ride. Writers Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio take efforts to
develop each of our three heroes separately, using individual sub-plots
to fill in the otherwise empty molds left dry from the original. Will
Turner has a family reunion with his father (Stellan Skarsgard),
enslaved by Davy Jones and appearing as though he's slowly evolving
into a starfish. Will's fiancé, Ms. Swan, escapes from her cell and
hides as a stowaway on a trade vessel. And Jack, of course still
functioning as the star of the show, develops his slimier persona with
delectable cowardice and deception. Ironic that the teenagers of
America have chosen Mr. Sparrow as their most prized character in film.
Oh, wait, that honor instead belongs to Napoleon Dynamite. Perhaps we
should be nervous about our country's future? 

Anyway, along with the characters the adventure is also thickened
heartily; though probably not by consequence of the writing, but
instead because of the greatly inflated budget. Our friends are
volleyed about the seas, facing the enormous sea monster, the Kraken,
whose plunger-like tentacles crumple vessels like copy-paper. Swordplay
is more indulgent too, with Verbinksi going so far as to mount a
chivalric swordfight inside a huge, rolling waterwheel as it bounces
along the island's foliage. Verbinski juggles these stunts with ease,
proving once again his film-making versatility. If you'll remember all
the way back to last October (I know, in Hollywood-time nine months is
an epoch) Verbinski made a quiet, gloomy little character study called
The Weather Man. And before that, Verbinski also directed The Ring and
Captain Jack's first adventure in 2003. Yup, this guy's the real deal.
In the waterwheel sequence, Verbinski chooses not to succumb to any
mere CGI trickery, and mounts a camera on the wheel's axis to show that
at one point he forced Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom to swordfight on a
giant spinning wooden wheel. And he's more artistic than your typical
Brett Ratner-esquire director, finding a visual aesthetic perfect for a
pirate's tale. 

But art and pretentious critic fodder aside, Dead Man's Chest is great
entertainment. It's rich and exciting and chock-full of Captain
Jack-isms for high schoolers to repeat over and again. And the life of
pirates is still a chunk of history that Hollywood has been unwilling
to bite into for a while. Pirates of the Caribbean, for all its
feathery, lightweight fun, gorges on this chunk and keeps us hooked on
the adventure, waiting along with all the local eighth and ninth
graders next year for the midnight showing of Captain Jack's trilogy
capper.
<|_=00=_|>
This had to be absolutely wonderful. Usually a lot of movies that have
a second or a third tend to ruin the first one, and this one certainly
does not. It was one hundred percent better than the first one,
actually. It was still action packed, funny, and it features people you
would not expect, I was even dropping my jaw the whole time! If you
liked Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl, you're going
to have to love this one too. Of course, Johnny Depp's acting is still
wonderful as the last one, as well as Orlando Bloom's and Keira
Knightley's. The effects are absolutely stunning and keeps you on the
edge of your seat. I do suggest though, if you have not seen the first
one, you need to see that before going to see this one..otherwise,
you're going to be a "tad" clueless on some parts. The movie does total
justice and I would see it again and again!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is horrendous in terms of plot, character development, and
overall quality. It was such a disappointment after seeing the first
one. I did not have huge expectations as other fans may have, but I did
at least want a quality movie.

Other users have pointed this out in their reviews. This movie is a
complete setup for Pirates #3 and possibly #4. I refuse to see the
sequels as I feel they made me waste 2.5 hours of my time and money to
set up Pirates #3. All the users who praise the movie, I have no idea
what you are talking about. Don't waste your time and money seeing
this.

This movie has nothing original about it. They provide the exact same
jokes and perspectives as the first one. In addition, they steal
several ideas and scenes from other movies. It's so annoying, boring,
and proves to be a failure. A couple of my friends fell asleep during
the movie during the slow progression and overall stupidity of plot.
The ending is completely painful. The movie just stops abruptly and the
credits roll. You leave with the most horrendous taste in your mouth
and most disgusted feeling (as anyone would feel after having wasted
hours of their time and money to see basically a trailer).
<|_=00=_|>
Some blockbuster movies pretend to be more than they actually are. They
sometimes even try to be philosophical. 'Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead
Man's Chest', thank goodness, does no such thing. From start to finish,
it practically flaunts the fact that it is pure and utter
entertainment, comic yet breathtaking. The slapstick comedy involving
the various sequences on the cannibal island and the water mill are
amusing, the scenes at sea with the Flying Dutchman and the Kraken draw
gasps, and, as ever, the antics of Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow
brings endless pleasure. Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swann does her
share too, but Orlando Bloom as William Turner is still
somewhat...wooden, perhaps because of the insipid character that he
plays. His (almost idiotic) chivalry and goodness simply does not click
with the mischievous magnetism that Jack Sparrow and Elizabeth Swann
delivers. He still does amuse from time to time, however. The
supporting cast is truly stellar; Bill Nighy as Captain Davy Jones,
Stellan Skarsgard as Bill 'Boostrap' Turner and Naomie Harris as Tia
Dalma are simply brilliant. Bill Nighy delivers his lines with aplomb,
smacking his lips as if he relishes each syllable. Stellan Skarsgard is
completely believable as the wretched Bootstrap Bill, a man who has
fallen to the depths as far as he can go, and yet can still find the
strength to endure it all in the love he has for his son, William.
Naomie Harris is just as charismatic as the former two, but her
charisma is not menacing or stoic but mysterious and even alluring.
When she grins her black-toothed grin, one cannot help but grin along
with her. In the end, 'Dead Man's Chest' is a roller-coaster-ride of a
movie that thoroughly exploits every minute of its two-and-a-half-hour
running time, ending with a final cliffhanger that leaves people
feeling excited yet frustrated. (Remember when you watched 'Lord of the
Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring' and realized that you would have to
wait another year for 'The Two Towers'? Like that.) NB. If you have the
patience, stay till the end of credits. It's mildly amusing.
