
Why is Wesley Snipes sharing screen time with Ryan Reynolds and Jessica
Biel? Who cares about Hannibal King? I paid to see Blade kick butt,
just like in Blade 1 and 2. I didn't pay to see Ryan Reynolds joke for
half the film. I didn't pay to see Jessica Biel (hottest body in
Hollywood) fake fight. Who cares about Whistler's daughter? 

Blade the Vampire Hunter was a good film. Strong villain. Strong hero.
Good story. Blade 2 was even better. A rare sequel that bests the
original. Two strong villains for Blade to fight against. Good
supporting cast. Good story and a director who gets it. 

Blade Trinity is a joke: literally. The villain, warning spoilers
ahead, is Dracula, if you don't know by now. Dracula: the original
vampire--the baddest of them all. What a way to end the series, then to
have Blade fight the first and the greatest of his kind, but Dracula
does basically nothing throughout the film. He doesn't pose any real
threat to Blade, or anyone else. He is just there, and Blade has to
kill him, because that is what he does. The other vampires in the film
seem to have no other purpose either than beating up Ryan Reynolds'
Hannibal King, while the latter cracks one liners. I didn't pay to see
a comedy. Jessica Biel is hot, but I didn't pay to see a Jessica Biel
movie. I paid to see Wesley Snipes as Blade, and yet it is like he is
cast aside for younger models. Wesley Snipes is the star. He has
charisma, on screen and off. Jessica Biel does not, and I don't care
about Ryan Reynolds. 

I paid to see Blade. What happened to Blade?
<|_=00=_|>
As most negative reviewers(people who know what they're talking about!)
stated : "Blade 1 & 2 kicked ass and was in a class of it's own in the
action/comic book movie genera!"

This excuse, of a "made for TV" movie is not just an embarrassment to
the Blade franchise, but to the entire industry!

Where do i start?>> Firstly:>> the movie is called "Blade", so where is
he? Wesley Snipes is simply brilliant as Blade (no other actor could
have been more convincing), now all of a sudden he's an 'Extra' in his
own movie wandering in the Background looking ever so bored, with a
cast of "American pie" wannabe actors taking the lead (they're even on
the poster!). >> that's like having Britney Spears featured on a Public
Enemy or Linkin Park track!>. 

Is this another ploy from "white Hollywood" bringing in the
"snow-white" crew to diminish the lead black actor's presence??

Blade works alone>> imagine Superman, Spider man or the Hulk with 2
human sidekicks?>> Ridiculous! They're more of a liability than
assistance!!

Secondly, while we're on the 'sidekicks'>> since when are humans able
to kick Vampires' asses? (that's like a Rabbit beating up a Lion!)
What's the point of having Blade around?>>

They're barely afraid of the vampires>> Fighting for your life from a
bloodsucking demon with your i-pod on?? Cracking wise-ass jokes every
chance u get , even though a Vampire has almost killed u more than
once>> "give me a f#*king break!" 

3rd-ly: Where's the Intensity, Darkness, and Mind Blowing Effects from
the first 2 movies?>> This was like watching a cross between a, B-Grade
action flick(Chuck Norris)& a bad episode of Friends!

Then > we come to the casting and acting>. All Round Poor!!>> Why is
Triple-H in this movie????? Why does Dracula look and portrayed even
lamer than the one in Vanhelstink? (looks like a euro-trash porno
actor) Ryan Reynolds?? Jessica Biel??? (with leading roles??) wtf! **
the casting director is obviously a genius!!!**

Blade 4 :>> Either kill Blade off in an attempt to keep his dignity! Or
get Del Torro back to make up for this "Mtv Teeny- Bopper" Butt-Hole
Fest!!

0.5 / 10>>>
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I have to admit to being really quite disappointed with this
instalment of the Blade series. Two days after watching the film I can
barely remember much of it at all. The first two were exciting, with
punchy dialogue, impressive villains and most importantly, a hero, the
man himself, Blade.

With Trinity we have no idea who this particular group of vampires are,
their social standing, history, source of their power are all a
mystery. They were just plonked in the film to raise the ultimate bad
guy from his crypt and provide someone for Blade's latest sidekicks to
pulverise-badly.

And then we have the ultimate bad guy, Drake, who isn't remotely
imposing, let alone terrifying. Big boots to fill and I really don't
think this guy is up to it. I was looking forward to someone imposing,
sadistic, gleefully evil in fact. I didn't get it. What this guy
reminded me of was Ram-Man from He-Man, but less frightening to his
enemies.

The only reason I gave this film 4 and not 1 is for Hannibal King (Ryan
Reynolds), who steals the show from Blade the second he comes on
screen. While Blade potters through the film not saying or doing much
that I can remember, apparently this is whats called "brooding", King
manages to keep all eyes on him.

King gets all the best camera shots AND lines. As far as I'm concerned
this was his film and should have been a Blade spin-off and not another
episode. Ryan Reynolds is far and away the star here.
<|_=00=_|>
The main problem with Blade:Trinity is that the director - for some odd
reason - forgot that Wesley Snipes can hold his own. He was the reason
people went and saw the first two movies. As Blade, he is the king of
badass cool. Trinity was disappointing because they siphoned all of his
humor off onto Hannibal, and he lost a lot of battle scenes to Abby.
This was unnecessary. I didn't go to watch either of those actors try
desperately. I went to watch Wesley Snipes as Blade. And then, casting
decisions? Who chose Parker Posey to play a vamp? Who did her hair?
What insanity was going on on the set? And why, why, why, why didn't
Paul Levanesque take his shirt off? Come on. Waste of money, and that
from a Blade sci-fi fan.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately this movie didn't have the impact on me that the first
two did. I've been a big fan of Vampire movies in general as well as
the first two movies of the Blade series, so I'm an avid fan of the
subject. While this movie offered more in the comedy & comic book feel,
it lost the originality, horror, and suspense IMO.

Pros  Cool new weapons & some plucky comedy. Cons  Lacked any kind of
suspense / horror feeling, wasn't serious at all, more of a popcorn
movie than the first two. Also a comic book cinematography feel that
kind of bothered me.

Throughout this movie I never felt a single hint of being in a horror
movie, but more so like a super hero movie (like with all Marvel comic
movies). Now granted I'd say that the Blade series lingers more on the
Sci-Fi / horror fence rather than just horror, but this movie was more
like a comedy action and lacked any kind of suspense / horror. The
first movie was pretty original, the 2nd was more darker and the
mutated vampire strain definitely gave a good creepy & suspenseful
element while building off the original storyline. However the third
movie lacked any suspense at all as the main bad guy (Dracula, or
rather his modern name 'Drake') seemed to lack any substance or
omnipotence at all. You didn't fear him or see him as any real threat
at all other than his ability to morph into other things which wasn't
really used well; hence the suspense went down the tube

The acting was okay, there was a much more comical feel to this one
rather than the few one liners of the previous two movies and I guess
that rubbed me the wrong way, mainly instigated by Ryan Reynolds (Mr.
Van Wilder). While he was certainly physically fit for the part as seen
in his torture scene, his relief comedy ways totally change the tone of
the movie. Interestingly you never see Wesley Snipes all stripped down,
wondering if he's been keeping up with his push ups Jessica Biel is
okay at best. She certainly kicks ass in the movie, but is not very
believable in her character IMO and not very good eye candy either, so
kind of a dud there. The other thing that really bugged me was her
'listening to MP3's' while doing battling, OMG this is so stupid and so
Hollywood. You mean to tell me that she's willing and capable to give
up her sense of hearing while fighting vampires, just to appear cool?
Give me a friggin break. So unrealistic Who ever thought up that idea
should be shot, hanged, have there ears ripped off and never allowed to
work in Vampire movies again Wesley Snipes played his role same as the
first two, kicking ass throughout and having a bad attitude to boot. I
wasn't impressed by any of the fight scenes, yeah some of the new
weapons were semi cool, but overall the action was nothing new, and the
cinematography was so quick and close up that you really couldn't make
out the action very well. The end / climactic scene was also a dud,
quite befitting for the rest of the movie I recon

I guess the other thing that bothered me about this movie was the fact
that in the first two movies you get the impression that vampires are
stronger, quicker and more durable that humans (hence the need for
Blade), however in the 3rd movie you have Jessica Biel (who is human)
as well as Ryan Reynolds (a previous vampire now cured / human) kicking
ass all over vampire city. If this were really the case then vampires
wouldn't pose much of a threat to begin with. So this aspect really
bothered me as the vampires in this 3rd movie came off really weak and
ordinary. They didn't come of mystical or powerful at all; even Drake
wasn't impressive in the least. This had the net effect of stealing
away some thunder from the Blade character as Blade actually gets
rescued by his Nights stalker groupies rather than the other way
around.

Overall the movie was just okay and is much more light hearted than the
first two movies, for that reason it may appeal to a wider audience,
but in doing so it lost me as a hardcore vampire fan. I couldn't take
this movie seriously as the comedy aspect kept pushing through.
Unfortunately when you mix Vampires with too much comedy you get crap
for a result. Vampires are better suited for horror / suspense movies
rather than this 'Hollywood / Please all' crap. Kind of a bummer
<|_=00=_|>
I was never a big fan of the original 'Blade', but I liked the sequel a
lot. Doing away with the story building of the first one, Blade II
captured a nice balance between plot and action and it was an
entertaining ride throughout. For this third instalment, however that
perfect balance has been interrupted, and calling this film 'action
heavy' would be an understatement. While the action in the movie is
well done and entertaining to watch, when you've seen 45th bad guy
being smashed through a window, it loses it's impact somewhat. The
talking scenes in between the action are either small plot details that
the film needs to string itself together, or just another action
sequence set-up. The plot is messy to say the least, and there's far
too much going on for it to be streamlined into an engaging and
satisfying story, but nevertheless it follows the vampires as they
resurrect legendary bloodsucker Dracula and get Blade into trouble with
the cops. However, Blade manages to team up with a ragtag bunch of
vampire hunters and together they attempt to thwart Dracula and the
rest of the vampires! Oh, and the cops.

David S. Goyer, the man who wrote the first two Blade films has taken
the director's chair this time round. He's obviously being watching too
much Mtv too, as he seems far too keen to not allow the audience to
know what is going on. The quick style Mtv editing is abundant, and it
quickly becomes apparent that you will end up very dizzy by the end of
the film. The director/writer has dragged together an eclectic cast to
compliment Wesley Snipes, which includes the sizzling Jessica Biel,
along with two more experienced actresses who should know better;
Parker Posey and Natasha Lyonne, and Kris Kristofferson returns also;
and WWF wrestler Triple H joins in the fun too. Wesley Snipes has made
his name playing the human/vampire hybrid in this comic strip movie
series, and with this performance he seems like an actor bored with his
work. Whether or not that's because of the extremely thin caricature
that Snipes has been given to work with this time round, or maybe it's
because he's fed up of 'more of the same'. Anyway, Blade Trinity is
quality entertainment. What it lacks in depth, it makes up for in
coolness and action and if you liked the first two, you might as well
see this one as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember the excitement my friends and I felt leaving the theatre
after seeing Blade I in the theatre years ago (for the 3rd time). I
remember telling my brother that I haven't seen a hero kick this much
ass in a film since the 80's. This film, along with "The Matrix" and
Jackie Chan helped bring martial arts back to Hollywood. 

I remember leaving Blade II being disgusted by the acting by the acting
Leonor Varela, but pleased to see Donnie Yen's fight choreography and
to see Wesley Snipes' Blade kick even more ass this time around. Not as
good a story as 1, but cool and violent nonetheless.

But trinity...wow. I'm surprised that Blade didn't have nipples on his
costume with the immediate decay of the quality of the franchise. The
responsibility lies completely on David Goyer as he finally was given
the chance to direct he series he has written since it's inception.
This film felt like it should have been on Sci-Fi channel or FX. Those
good old days of Blade kicking ass are gone, replaced by Jessica Biel
and Ryan Reynolds beating down brittle MTV vampires that couldn't hold
a candle to Stephen Dorff's Deacon Frost. I don't even remember seeing
Blade fight Dracula, with all the action geared towards his new
sidekicks. That's like a Batman movie with Robin as the star. David
Goyer now says he'd like to direct Thor......comic fans around the
world should now panic as to what he sets his sights on next.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a seriously poor film... and I don't know where to start. The
product placement of the i-pod? The fact that the production wants you
to call Dracula Drake (in a hip move that makes you think of comics and
naming conventions over the fact the guy is called Dracula!)? The
stupid on-foot chase between Blade and Drake? The fact Whistler is
beaten by the Feds, when he survived Vamps? The inappropriate comedy?
The stupid blind woman? The fact Drake was just resting, wasn't in a
tomb at all, and woke up when he chose to? The crapness of the script?
The poor introduction of Whistler's daughter? The lack of tension? The
horrendous ending?

I can't go on... please kill me. I knew I should have seen Polar
Express.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether it be intentionally or incidentally writer/director David S.
Goyer succeeds in amalgamating the visual style of the two previous
Blade films by making Blade: Trinity a sleek but raw actioner.

The problem is Blade is not an action franchise. It's a vampire
franchise. Both Guillermo del Toro and Stephen Norrington understood
this. Vampires can be sexy, scary, enticing, and downright brutal, all
at the same time. But the vampires in Blade: Trinity are sissies.
They're pissy, corny, spent, and essentially useless. They're not sexy,
scary, or smart. They're just boring. And thus, there is no sense of
horror, or danger, or urgency, or mystery. You never wonder if Blade
will come out on top. You know he will and you can pretty much guess
how before it happens.

Snipes' kung-fu-movieesque silent hero routine has grown tired. His
character in this film lacks any real depth or complexity. Snipes is
utterly boring unless he's kicking the crap out of someone, or at least
threatening to.

Instead of developing the characters he already has Goyer keeps
introducing new ones. Much like in the previous film, Blade soon finds
himself surrounded by a new group of allies to whom his disdains. But
instead of vampires, this time around it's a bunch of wise cracking
teenagers. Each one more clichéd and uninteresting than the next.

And what should have been the highlight of the film, Goyer also manages
to ruin. Through some broad stroke of banality Goyer even succeeds in
making Dracula, the most favored and well known vampire in the history
of literature and cinema, completely dull.

Goyer implements too many different and contradictory ideas into a
single film. And the result is a film that's visually impressive but
narratively clunky. 

Many of Goyer's ideas, while contrived, aren't that bad. I mean. A
group of wise cracking teenage vampire hunters isn't a bad idea. It
might work as it's own film but it simply doesn't work in the context
of the Blade universe.

Despite enthusiastic performances by much of the cast and Wesley
Snipes' strong presence Blade: Trinity fails due to underdeveloped
characters and an unfocused plot. 

Lackluster writing and directing aside, this film still looks really,
really good. Apparently the only people who really brought their A-game
are cinematographer Gabriel Beristain, the entire art department, and
visual effects team. Kudos to them all.
<|_=00=_|>
Blade: Trinity. 2004 New Line Cinema. 

Review: So, it's come to this. The last installment of Blade. Look up
the word messy and Blade: Trinity will be seen as the perfect example
of messy. This film is a total disaster. Let's go with pros and cons to
sum things up.

Pros: Wesley Snipes returns as Blade.

Cons: Snipes looks embarrassed here.

Pros: Jessica Biel is here. Great eye candy. 

Cons: Biel's character seems like filler than an actual person. 

Pros: Ryan Reynolds put on some serious weight. 

Cons: Reynolds can't fight at all.

Pros: Triple H is here. His lines are delivered well and steals the
show. 

Cons: Triple H is not used well here. No character development as well. 

Pros: The bad guy is Dracula.

Cons: Casting of Dracula (or Drake) is terrible. Horrible actor.
Character development is awful, and seems to be here just to fight
Blade. 

Pros: Blade's mentor Whistler is back. 

Major Spoiler****

Cons: Whistler is dispatched quickly. If you looked away for a second,
you would miss the death scene. Worse yet, Whistler is killed by human
police officers, and kills a bunch of them beforehand. 

Pros: Blade's muscle car is back.

Cons: I'm running out of pros. 

Pros: Vampire dogs (it's original). 

Cons: Triple H and Wesley Snipes, the only two in this movie who know
how to fight, do NOT fight in one-on-one combat. Instead HHH has to
fight Reynolds. What's the point?!

Cons: A human Reynolds defeats a Vampire HHH. So very wrong. 

Cons: Dracula wore gold chains here. 

Cons: Jessica Biel listens to her Ipod while hunting vamps. Lame.

Cons: Triple H should have played Dracula. 

Cons: The night stalkers. Who? Should I care? No. Next. 

Cons: The blind woman that can read computer monitors??? 

Cons: Dracula talks of honor, but threatens to kill a newborn baby
earlier. 

Cons: Dracula ran away from Blade. Why? 

Cons: The vamps bite like reapers from Blade two and no explanation as
to how. 

Cons: HHH aside, the rest of the evil vamps are like MTV rejects, and
are not menacing at all. Just annoying. 

Cons: Blade is in no real danger throughout this movie. 

Cons: A terrible way to end a good movie franchise. Ouch.

The Last Word: Poor Blade. This is indeed the stake driven though
Blade's heart. This is easily one of the worst of the year, or the
decade. I'll stick with the latter. Skip it.
