
The easiest role for an actor to play is a historical figure - we have
no idea how Julius Caesar really sounded, how he moved his body,
punctuated his speech, bit his lip, walked into a room, held his
cigarette. The hardest role is the living, or recently deceased,
celebrity whom we watched, heard, studied, mimicked and thought we
understood. JFK, Martin Luther King, Ray Charles, and, above all, the
inventor of self referential celebrity, Truman Capote (with apology to
Andy Warhol and, of course, Noel Coward)..

After exploding to meteoric fame with his novella Breakfast at
Tiffany's, Capote became the New York caf√© society's darling, heir to
Coward's gay-man-child-bon-vivant. He drank and held court with the
best of New York, which just also happened to be the nexus of
television in the early 60s. Before long Capote was the quintessential
modern celebrity, famous for being famous. And he did it all before our
eyes.

Philip Seymour Hoffman does not so much play Capote as become him. And
not just in mannerism, no mean feat, but in personality, because we are
convinced that Hoffman feels what Capote felt, cries over the lies,
accepts his moral failings. For a short story writer-raconteur from New
Orleans, Capote found himself at the center of a nationally enthralling
multiple homicide, facing the ultimate journalist's Faustian dilemma:
if he perpetrates a lie for the sake of exposing the truth, is he ever
worthy of redemption? Capote, in the end, concluded that he wasn't; he
never wrote another book. He descended into drunkenness and died a
lonely soul. This is not the stuff of Holly Golightly.

I saw this picture at the Toronto Film Festival with Hoffman, Catherine
Keener and director Bennett Miller in attendance. Though they had seen
it many many times before, it was obvious even they were moved by it
and by our reaction. As we stood and applauded them, we turned to one
another, glowing in the realization that we had witnessed an amazing
performance.

We knew Truman Capote. We watched him live on television. Truman Capote
was (we imagined) our friend. Mr. Hoffman, you are Truman Capote.
<|_=00=_|>
This moving film lives and breathes on the powerful shoulders of
Phillip Seymour Hoffman's stunning performance in the title role.
Hoffman captures all of the unique physical characteristics that made
Capote such a familiar public figure in his lifetime and invests them
with a humanity that is almost unbearably poignant. The film focuses on
Capote's research on the book "In Cold Blood" and the personal journey
that his relationship and identification with killer Perry Smith became
(Capote says at one point that it was like they grew up in the same
house, and he went out the front door while Perry went out the back), a
compelling and complicated relationship that this uncompromising film
presents in moving detail. But what truly makes it a unique work of art
is the brilliant work of Hoffman - always an interesting actor - whose
performance as Truman Capote should elevate him to the pantheon of film
giants.
<|_=00=_|>
Beautifully told, masterfully performed, harrowing, amusing, cruel,
moving. A sensational achievement. I sat there disturbed and
transfixed. Witnessing the impossible. Truman Capote with the mask,
without the mask. The same man, different men, all men, no man. The
creature at work, thinking of work, planning his work, working his
work, wheeling an dealing. Living his life, life as work, work as life.
An ego bigger than his talent and all talent and no ego. Feeling
without feeling. Cunning, innocent, blasphemous, a child, a monumental
son of a bitch. Philip Seymour Hoffman surprising us again. Charles
Laughton I thought. What a thought! Charles Laughton 2005. That kind of
talent that kind of boldness and brains. Everything and everyone in
"Capote" seem to be. To be totally. I've never seen a photograph of
Harper Lee but I imagine her just like Catherine Keener. The film is a
miracle of sorts. I can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Like the non-fiction novel and the Richard Brooks film that was made
from it, "In Cold Blood," "Capote" focuses on and sympathizes with two
killers at the expense of the four murdered members of the Clutter
family. Once the viewer gets beyond this sticking point, however, all
three works are outstanding, unforgettable experiences. Unlike the book
and the original movie, "Capote" does explore the contradictory
feelings that author Truman Capote wrestles with as he researches and
writes "In Cold Blood." His feelings for Perry Smith, the more
"sensitive" of the two killers, are particularly problematic as Capote
becomes emotionally close to Smith and helps the men with legal aide
that postpones the executions, while at the same time Capote cannot
finish his book until Smith and Hickcock are hanged. Praise for Philip
Seymour Hoffman's uncanny performance as Truman Capote cannot be
overstated and, come awards time, if he does not collect enough
accolades to fill his mantel, indictments for film critics and Academy
voters would be in order. Hoffman not only captures the mannerisms and
voice of Capote, he inhabits the man's soul and expresses his feelings
and emotions without histrionics or the type of caricature that mimics
often have made of the notoriously fey writer in the past.

Fortunately, Hoffman's performance is only the jewel in a gilded crown
of fine writing, excellent direction, and solid supporting
performances. "Capote" will send viewers back to their bookshelves to
re-read the book and to their video libraries to re-view the 1967 film.
Considering the time that Capote spent with the two convicted
murderers, questions arise as to why the Richard Brooks film did not
have Truman Capote as a character, but rather presented a bland,
nameless investigative writer, who wanders through the proceedings
without much purpose. The film is so good and so intriguing that
questions such as that, and what happened to the writer that Capote
lived with? and did Harper Lee write anything beyond "To Kill a
Mockingbird?" and did Capote's presence at the execution lead to his
alcoholism, his lack of further writing, and eventually his death, and
other questions will send viewers to Google as soon as they get home.
"Capote" is an outstanding film and possibly the first of the year to
be assured of a place on the "10 Best" lists for 2005.
<|_=00=_|>
Every action has a reaction, and watching "Capote", we can't help but
wonder how it ever got made. "Capote" is entrancing, dark, depressing,
and quite satisfying. It benefits from Hoffman's perfect performance.
He embodies the physical and psychological make up of a man who was the
toast of the nation before and after the publication of its classic
novel, "In Cold Blood". As a human being, he appeared to be an
intelligent, fascinating, and manipulative creature. He could have
gotten away with almost anything. Then he found the two criminals
behind one of the most heinous crimes of the century and might have
gotten to the realization he could also be trapped by their own dark
existences.

It is difficult to ascertain what happened to Capote after he developed
a relationship with Smith. He grows attracted to the actions and
revelations behind this killer, and we never really know what is
exactly going on. There are displays of guilt and detachment at
different parts in the film. What we do see is that something really
affected the man, and it changed his life for good.

The film moves slowly but never loses its audience. Along with Hoffman,
a remarkable supporting cast keeps us interests going, and enough is
presented to make us want to know more. That will probably be the
film's only flaw. It fails to deliver everything it promises. It is a
big satisfying tease, but after all, we are left with an endless number
of questions. Keener is wonderful as Capote's supporting friend, and in
his lover's role, Bruce Greenwood intrigues us as well, with the
dubious character that never gives enough information to explain his
attraction to a total opposite.

"Capote" is a really good film and should be admire for it achieves.
For those who want to explore more in depth what lies behind the
protagonists of the movie, there are several books that will give you a
more detailed background on their nature. The truth, will however,
remain, a big mystery.
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant portrayals are chilling. Philip Seymour Hoffman's invocation
of the essence of Truman Capote is mesmerizing. I suspect that most of
the readers on websites such as these may not have stored memories of
Capote in the 60's. An unlikely media darling, I vividly recall his
flaunting gay affectations and cosmopolitan barbs. Hoffman's detailed
and incisive performance implores, "And the Oscar goes to........" 

Beyond his performance is a riveting and eerie story directed with
flawless craft and impressive restraint. It is a film that left me
sitting and discussing its nuances and its depth, until the theater's
lights flickered to oust me. The film surrounds the time when Capote
wrote "In Cold Blood," a book nearly everyone read in the late 60's,
its title seeming obvious. This latest movie inserts Capote into the
original crimes that inspired "In Cold Blood" and challenges us to
revisit that title.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Bennet Miller's "Capote" is a film that shows great
intelligence in the way it captured the essence of Truman Capote, a man
who achieved fame and notoriety with most of the fiction he wrote. This
film concentrates in the period of his life in which he got obsessed by
a notorious murder case of the fifties about the murder of a family in
Kansas.

Dan Futterman has written the screen play based on the book by Gerald
Clarke. The film is an account about the writing of the novel "In Cold
Blood" that showed how the two young men who committed the heinous
crime are caught, processed and hanged for their actions.

If you haven't watched the film, perhaps you would like to stop here.

When the film opens we get a vision of a lonely house in the distance.
This being the Midwest, we are given a flat expanse devoid of
elevations anywhere. The camera takes us to that lonely house as a
young woman comes calling for her friend that lives in there. Not
getting any response, she goes in to a room upstairs where she
discovers her friend has been killed. The colors are dark, as is the
tone of the film.

Truman Capote, who had been connected to the New Yorker magazine, sees
the article in the N.Y. Times and gets interested. This case that
shocked the country, at the time, shows a promise for the writer. The
next time we meet him, he is in the small town in Kansas accompanied by
his good friend and steadying influence, Nell Harper Lee, a writer.

By becoming friendly with the sheriff's wife, Mr. Capote gets a
privilege by having access to the two murderers. Truman is clearly
deeply affected by his relationship with Perry Smith, a handsome dark
man who shows a lot of intensity. By gaining their trust, Capote is
able to put together his best selling book "In Cold Blood", which will
revolutionize American letters in the way the two criminals are
portrayed.

Truman Capote, while pursuing the completion of his book, doesn't come
clean to Perry Smith. In fact, when questioned about things he has
learned, Capote gives evasive answers because he is not prepared to
share with his main subject things that clearly should have been
clarified from the start.

Watching the brilliant take of Philip Seymour Hoffman as Truman Capote
on the screen, brought to mind another great actor, Meryl Streep, who
like Mr. Hoffman is a chameleon in the interpretation of a character.
Mr. Hoffman is perfect as the writer because he has captured every
mannerism and the speech inflection of Truman Capote. Catherine Keener
is perfect as Nelle, the true friend and companion. Bruce Greenwood
plays Truman Capote's companion Jack Dunphy. Chris Cooper is totally
wasted as Sheriff Dewey.

Adam Kimmel excellent cinematography contributes to the atmosphere the
director gave the film because of the use of muted colors in what
appear to be the bleak winter of the Midwest.
<|_=00=_|>
Capote Reviewed by Sam Osborn

Rating: 3.5 out of 4

Director: Bennett Miller Cast: Philip Seymour Hoffman, Catherine
Keener, Chris Cooper Screenplay: Dan Futterman MPAA Classification: R
(some violent images and brief strong language)

It seems that once a year we're treated to a performance so
staggeringly magnificent that it seems as if the actor's a shoe-in for
the Academy's Best Actor prize. Phillip Seymour Hoffman is just that
actor for 2005. His portrayal of Truman Capote was best described by
Telluride Film Festival's Galaxy Theater host as a "resurrection". Like
Jamie Foxx's Ray, Charlize Theron's Monster, and Nicole Kidman's
Virginia Wolfe, Hoffman's Capote is simply devastating. He stated at
Telluride that after first accepting the role and watching a recording
of Truman Capote he frankly thought he was in over his head. But
throughout pre-production he gathered and compiled all of Capote's
mannerisms and began practicing them, slowly and truly becoming Truman
Capote. And from the first line of Hoffman's dialogue, with his
squinched high voice, and self-absorbed tone we know he's succeeded.
The actual film is nearly eclipsed by Hoffman's performance. But
Director Bennett Miller and an impressive supporting cast manage to
keep up with Hoffman's breakneck achievement. Shot in monochromatic,
nearly black and white starkness, the film inherits a raw power that
builds to its stunning climactic sequence. And although the film drags
some in the middle, it finishes strong and leaves us with much to
discuss. It's provocative, stark, and powerful. 

Capote opens with the discovery of a family of four murdered in the
small town of Hokum, Kansas in 1953 (don't quote me on the date,
please). Coming off his second novel, Truman Capote (Phillip Seymour
Hoffman) is searching for his next project. Intrigued by the murders,
he takes the investigation, agreeing on authoring an article for The
New Yorker. Meeting with the town's Sheriff, Alvin Dewey (Chris
Cooper), he's met with opposition in the town for his peculiar manner.
But his companion on the investigation, Harper Lee (Catherine Keener),
offsets his homosexuality with terse, homegrown professionalism.

Months later the two killers, Perry Smith (Clifton Collins Jr.) and
Richard Hickcock (Mark Pellegrino) are apprehended by Sheriff Dewey and
soon sentenced to death. Finding himself increasingly drawn to the
story by the sentence, Truman begins personally interviewing the
murderers, particularly Perry Smith, at their maximum security prison.
Avoiding discussion of the murders themselves, Capote learns more about
their lives outside of crime, finding a humanity never put into print
before and causing him to extend his article for The New Yorker into
the full-length novel, In Cold Blood. It would be the first True Crime
novel ever written. His extensive interviews with Smith lead to a
strange relationship open to many terms of controversial
interpretation. He feels compelled to assist the men and lead the
world's opinion away from demonizing headlines. Capote even goes to
lengths to find them a decent lawyer for their Supreme Court appeal. 

The screenplay deals with this controversy between Capote and Smith
with beautiful ambiguity. Screenwriter Dan Futterman leaves it to
Capote's character to interpret their relationship for the audience,
instead of the story doing so in a ham-handed way. And with Hoffman's
performance so obsessively complete, the result is magnificent. We
oddly understand Capote's pain and his unique love for Perry Smith. He
obviously sees the monster inside, but realizes the human entirely.
Some even speculated around the festival that Capote fell in love with
Smith. It's incredibly profound. 

But at the same time, Futterman's screenplay relies too much on
Capote's obsession with Smith. Audience's in the 50's were terrified by
Capote's humanistic realization of the murderer, but now, that sort of
True Crime journalism is accepted, and even expected, from murder
investigations. This reliance causes the film to linger too long on
Capote's build-up interviews before the shocking, twisting confession
he needs to finish the novel. Also, audiences have recently grown tired
of the biopic, probably because of the last year's heaping pile of
them. This mutes the typical drama that occurs in all dramatic biopics,
with the character's slow deterioration. 

Despite these flaws, Capote is still an arresting portrait of a murder.
And to go along with this portrait is the complete resurrection of
Truman Capote in Phillip Seymour Hoffman. The film works to succeed
beyond a simple biopic. It also hits on the difficult topic of true
crime, delving into the imagination and conscience of a man that killed
in cold blood.
<|_=00=_|>
CAPOTE, first of all, is a well written film by the talented Dan
Futterman, whose performance in URBANIA we will always remember, and
for Philip Seymour Hoffman, this is his "Golden Globe and Oscar Award"
all in one. From the first scene, Hoffman creates the essence of the
acid tongued, tremendously talented, yet damaged, Truman Capote.

Having read IN COLD BLOOD when it first came out, CAPOTE really
captures on the screen the horror of what took place on that Kansas
farm and the cinematography, costumes and locations are wonderful to
behold. Miss Keener's performance is such a subtle and intelligent
contrast to the hysteria of Capote, and his perfect foil.

In the scenes with Perry Smith, they are haunting and disturbing, as if
it feels like two cobras are circling one another, waiting for the
first one to strike. And in this context, I ask, "2 Capote, or NOT 2
Capote?, that is the question", because both are on the take-Smith to
use Capote for obtaining a pardon, Capote, to nail the story that will
gain him the adulation he so adores. And then, Capote slides downhill,
while Perry rots in prison.

CAPOTE captures the essence of the 1950's, the horror of a brutal
killing in the vast farmlands of Kansas, and delivers a knock out
performance from Philip Seymour Hoffman. If only IN COLD BLOOD had not
seemed like a manipulation by a writer out for glory at the expense of
a prisoner who believed in him.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a press screening of this film recently, and was highly impressed
by its moving account of the period in Truman Capote's life during
which he wrote 'In Cold Blood'. The direction by the relatively unknown
Bennett Miller is personal, evocative and affecting, but without being
over-dramatic or saccharine. This is helped immensely by Philip Seymour
Hoffmann's incredible performance as Capote, as well as solid acting
from Catherine Keener, Clifton Collins Jr., and Chris Cooper. Cooper
plays K.B.I. Agent Alvin Dewey with perhaps a bit too much intensity,
given his relatively small amount of screen time, but the portrayal
nonetheless comes off as heart-felt.

The cinematography by Adam Kimmel is suitably gray and moody, with many
evocative views of the flat Kansas plains, but most of the screen time
is spent with the camera focused on Hoffmann - all of it time well
spent.

While I haven't read the biography by Gerald Clarke on which it's
based, the script seems to hit enough salient details to evoke Capote's
frame of mind, without inundating the audience with more than would fit
in a feature-length film. I suppose one of my only complaints about the
film would be that at times the conversations take on a sheen of
Hollywood, saying things for dramatic impact that perhaps might not
have been said in real life. But then again, I never met Capote, so who
knows for sure.

All in all, this was a deeply engrossing film, and one I would highly
recommend, especially if you're a fan of Truman Capote.
