
Doubting whether audiences do really know the existence of this crime
film due to poor marketing, Liam Neeson's name alone however has no
problem at all to draw a solid walk-ins, and surprisingly it turns out
to be a compelling story compared to his previous roles. Unlike the
other same genre, this does not filled with action-packed scenes, but
progresses steadily and methodically in details just like a real
investigation in daily life, making it appears to be a chilling drama
thriller. Not much of plot twists, but certain creepy moments with
solid scores, riveting performance from the hero himself and the
supporting casts, nasty and eerie crime heavily based on drugs and
alcohol, the surprisingly "muted" ending style are more than enough to
guarantee an intense, enjoyable, old-fashioned and watchable psycho-
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Credits roll, and a haunting cover of "Black Hole Sun" by Nouela plays
(the same song from the trailer). Its mellow and dilatory tune
perfectly encapsulates the bleak, somber tone of this chilling thriller
where Liam Neeson isn't the invincible badass his reputation usually
proclaims. We first meet Matt Scudder (Neeson) in a flashback in the
early 1990's where he clumsily takes down three crooks in a murky New
York City. Fast forward to 1999, and he's retiredapparently scarred by
his own incompetence on that wretched daylaying back at his favorite
restaurant when an acquaintance (Eric Nelsen) informs him of a
significant (unofficial) assignment. Oh no, a retired, gloomy detective
returns for one last job? And yet, the film astonishingly manages to
feature these kinds of irksome clichés but executes them in such an
exceptional way as to overshadow their familiarity with the underlying
compelling storyline and arresting cinematography. 

Long story short: a drug dealer's (Dan Stevens) wife has been kidnapped
and chopped into bits and pieces only to be nauseatingly dispersed in a
park's pond. The remainder of the narrativeabout 25 minutes insees
Scudder investigating and following the cunning tracks of two alarming
killers. In that regard, the killers (David Harbour and Adam David
Thompson) make for incredibly creepy villains, mirthfully indulging in
the rape of young girls and innocent wives while videotaping the horror
and asking for a substantial ransom from their respective families.
Alas, the audience will be forced through disturbingly shot and edited
sequences of helpless women exerting to lie still as execrable hands
scale their fleshclose-ups of wide eyes and deathly pale skin. 

On another note, many have been complaining that A Walk among the
Tombstones isn't exactly the unpredictable and fast-paced mystery
thriller they were expecting. However, that doesn't deem it a bad film,
does it? Because it's clearly not attempting to (generically) fall into
that category. Initially, I was also flabbergasted and immensely
underwhelmed by David Fincher's Zodiac, presuming it to be a tense,
brisk thriller; nevertheless, after a repeat viewing, I quickly
realized that marketingwhile, yes, manipulating audience expectations
shouldn't be an indicator of actual quality. If this particular movie
was striving to be unpredictable yet you correctly predicted every
single twist long before it came, then yes, it would've been a
disastrous failure. Like Zodiac though, the movie is more about the
grim and eerie atmosphere and, of course, the psychopathic killers
themselves. 

Aside from a few effectively humorous lines, this film is not the
typical "crowd-pleaser expected from a post-Taken Liam Neeson picture,
and the trailers clearly established that too. With that being said,
it's still more exciting than a slow burn. As long as moviegoers accept
its (effectual) dark aura and are successfully frightened by its
imagery and subject matter, A Walk among the Tombstones will be a
highly satisfying experience at the cinema. In fact, judging by its
underwhelming box office results, I will even go so far as to say it
might be the sleeper hit of this fall like Rush and Don Jon were last
September.
<|_=00=_|>
A Walk Among the Tombstones tells a pretty basic detective story. It
doesn't necessarily offer us anything new, and that truly is the case
here: it's just another episode of a private detective. Even with all
of the twisted scenarios, there isn't anything else big or even daring
to the picture. While some might be bothered with its lack of
innovation, fans of these types of mystery films would still have the
pleasure. It has been kind of rare to have such crime thrillers like
this in cinemas today, and by its simplicity in storytelling, it sure
does deliver things right. What matters to the experience in the end is
it's a finely crafted piece of noir that nearly glosses over to the
fact that it's just a relic, but a pretty decent one.

The film follows the classic roots of the genre, you won't find any
sort of uniqueness around the storyline, but how it constructed each of
its sequences still manage to be charming at the beginning and gripping
along the way. It just lets the detective walk from one place to
another to find clues and unfold questions. But it never lacks the
tension, the film places its coldness to buildup an atmosphere that
brings uncertainty to the fate of the investigation. The best thing
about it is it's simple. It doesn't bother adding some mind-blowing or
ridiculous twists, it just digs within a world where some evil can be
found in any street. Settling with the characters is as well one of its
finest moments, they may not have the most original arcs, but it is
undeniably entertaining when it lingers to them.

The direction is predictably slick, and it totally benefits by it for
making every scene of bleakness and violence emotionally effective.
People shouldn't take for granted its decent camera-work that sharply
displays its vital points. It gets even better when explores around its
main man: Liam Neeson is now commonly used as an action hero, but here
the film rather uses the better side of that reputation which is
keeping the audience feel that he is a dangerous man to deal with, even
without revealing much of the fists and gunpoint, it's still a totally
compelling depiction of his character's cold, brooding personality.

My personal enjoyment to the film is how refreshing to see a mystery
film this straightforward and unpretentiously dark in modern cinema. I
mean I might as well seen one in any crime television series running
today, but it's a lot fascinating to witness it in this form, plus a
tone this gritty, a style so clever, and a performance from its main
star that makes it more interesting. Again, you won't find anything
groundbreaking to the film, but leaving that thought behind would make
you realize that it is still a terrifically put together, unpredictably
told crime thriller. And I bet that's already enough for this sort of
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Ahh yes...the time has come for one of my fairly recent favorite
traditions...the annual release of a Liam Neeson movie where he is just
being a bad a**. Ever since "Taken", the world has been re- introduced
to Neeson as it's newest and truest action hero. For the most part
during this little resurrection for Neeson, you know that despite any
flaws the film might have, it ends up being great entertainment
regardless and you overlook those things. The only minor grievance that
one might have during this tradition, is that as much as you don't want
to admit it, some of these Neeson movies just aren't as good.

Now before we go any further we have to discuss the exact trend of the
Neeson films. I am only including the movies where Neeson is, for the
most part, the only star and he is playing some grizzled, world weary,
growling bad a** with a checkered past. This exempts movies like "The
A-Team", "Clash/Wrath of the Titans", and ugh...."Battleship".....dear
lord that was terrible....although it it is always nice to see Rihanna
trying to be a bad a**, "Aloha, mother f***er!". Anyway, you get the
picture. As for the examples of slightly less awesome Neeson bad a**
movies, these are the ones like "Unknown", and some may even say
"Non-Stop" but I actually enjoyed that one.

"A Walk Among the Tombstones" falls into that category. Many will go
into this movie looking to see Neeson kicking dudes a**es left and
right and they may be sorrily disappointed. "Tombstones" is more about
the detective story and the darkness that the characters descend into
as the film progresses. Neeson plays Matt Scudder, a retired
cop/alcoholic turned P.I. after a case 8 years ago that left him
emotionally and psychologically scarred. He is brought to meet drug
dealer (excuse me, "trafficker") Kenny Kristo (worse drug kingpin name
ever?) who wants to hire him to find the two men who kidnapped and
murdered his wife despite paying them the money they asked for.
Scudder, along with a spunky, homeless kid T.J, fish around for clues.
Their relationship is interesting at first because it's unclear as to
why Scudder continues to come into contact with this kid besides the
fact that perhaps by helping this kid, he can make up for a lot of sins
he has committed in his past.

The film can be slow at times, but Neeson is almost in every scene and
his presence alone keeps you engaged in every step he takes. As you get
closer and closer to the truth the film gets more disturbing. This film
is unnerving for sure and is a mental disturbance more than anything.
Even though it may not be as action packed as some of Neesons' past
films (The Grey still doesn't get enough love) but it may be a pleasant
surprise for other reasons. One of Americas guilty pleasures is loving
serial killers (Dexter, The Killing, Hannibal, films and series, Se7en,
etc.) so people may actually enjoy the film but for a completely
different reason then they previously thought. 

Oh, and don't worry, Liam still has some clever "bad a** one-liners"
keeping up with the tradition...Can't wait till next year.

I joyously await your criticism for my overuse of bad a**.

6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
... is that, long before Neeson became Hollywood's most late-blooming
action hero, he was an actor.

A-C-T-O-R 

And a pretty good one at that.

And that is what makes this film a lot better than the other reviews
would have you believe.

Yes, I confess, a guilty pleasure, I loved TAKEN. But movies like TAKEN
are a crapshoot, a gamble, a party trick where you are constantly
trying to find something new and different to resonate with the
audience, to make up for the fact that there is little substance to the
project. (As was proved by TAKEN 2, one of the worst movies I have ever
seen, with some of the most glaring editing mistakes).

Here we go old school. Written by one of the best writers of the last
century and directed by Scott Frank, a man who certainly knows how to
frame a scene for mood and impact. (At the half way point, a girl in a
red hood crosses the street in front of the villains. The scene should
not have memorable, but Frank makes it so).

An "old school" classic. Three quarters of a century ago, even Bogey
would have taken this part. And been the better for it.

Young "Astro" who plays the ghetto-smart TJ steals all his scenes and,
for those with a good ear, even channels the speech patterns of Will
Smith, from any movie Smith ever appeared in. This kid has a future.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Welcome to the annual off-season
gift from Liam Neeson. Seemingly every year, he provides us with a
February or September release that requires his particular set of tough
guy skills. This time, he plays Matthew Scudder - of the popular
Lawrence Block crime novel series (17 books).

Director Scott Frank (The Lookout) works to create a 1970's feel,
although the film opens up as a flashback to 1991, and quickly fast
forwards to 1999 NYC. There are no shortage of clichés here, but
nothing is over the top; and the bleak, somber, usually rainy setting
establishes the tone that fits with "unlicensed" private detective
Scudder's preferred method of living and detecting.

Of course, Scudder is a recovering alcoholic and former cop, with a
tragic, careless incident on his record and conscience. The film is so
ever-bleak, that the moments of humor ... though often awkward and out
of place ... are quite welcome. The only shining light of innocence
comes courtesy of a sharp homeless kid named TJ, played by Brian
"Astro" Bradley. TJ is a Philip Marlowe wannabe, and quickly assumes
the role of Scudder's partner/intern/IT Department.

Bad guys are everywhere. Even the serial killers (David Harbour, Adam
David Thompson) target the family members of criminals, so as to
minimize the involvement of the proper authorities. As an improper
authority, we can't ask for better than Liam Neeson. He works for
"favors", not a paycheck.

Other support work comes courtesy of Dan Stephens ("Downton Abbey"),
Boyd Holbrook, and creepy cemetery groundskeeper (is there another
type?) Olafur Darri Olafsson, who creates yet another memorable
character with limited screen time (see "True Detective").

Mr. Neeson gets plenty of telephone action, which plays right into the
strength of Taken, and it's pretty amazing how much WALKING he does
throughout the story. He looks great walking in his duster, but it
seems a bicycle would be more efficient ... though admittedly, much
less daunting. As a whole, though the movie is probably a bit familiar,
it's the little details and the powerful Liam Neeson that makes it a
welcome late summer release.
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson delivers as a brooding, hulking ex-cop on a mission. It's
always a treat to see Liam command every scene. There's something about
his walk - as the director took great aim in capturing. Walking and
brooding against fences, walls, and buildings. A determined walk. This
movie is a clever and engaging thriller/mystery with a mesmerizing
star. Surprising was the metamorphosis of Dan Stevens into a tormented
under-world character. Olafir Olafsson also commands every scene as
another tormented soul. Brian "Astro" Bradley is compelling as the
young teen. What was most intriguing was Eric Nelsen, who evokes
disgust at his life choices, yet compassion. He has the face of an
angel and yet conveyed torment about his life choices. I liked the
movie for a late-summer thriller/murder-mystery stroll into the
theaters!
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson, astute gentleman, legendary Jedi, and assassin who can
hunt anyone down who takes his family. Yet Hollywood seems to focus on
the latter, not deviating from the stoic man who can rip armies of
murderers asunder and come out swinging. This weekend, yet another
story is told about our leading action actor, entitled A Walk Among The
Tombstones. Seeing the trailers earlier this summer, I got chills at
the darkness and mystery the tale promised. If you know me by now
though, there is always the skepticism of being let down by the actual
film. What does this movie have in store? Read on to uncover the
details. 

We know that Liam Neeson can act the part of the sullen, rogue agent
who defies all the rules and limits other cops seem to have. Once
again, he is back still able to bring the smolder filled face of
justice to the dark underbelly of whatever setting he's in. This film
though goes one stop further down the dark hole, having Neeson dive
into the darker pits of his soul to face the internal and external
demons. He pulls it off flawlessly, almost as if he faces the very
challenges in real life. Helping to support Mr. Neeson, is a variety of
people, though we will only focus on a few others to spare room for
other aspects. Providing comedic relief, and an outlet from his
character's darkness is Astro, who has had a growth spurt since Echo.
Astro has got a mouth, and thinks he is tough kid who knows the way of
the world, yet gets a lesson about just how little he knows. He's
funny, he's cocky, and Astro pulls off the immature role to the letter.
Yet it's the two killers of Ray (David Harbour) and Albert (Adam David
Thompson) who really mix well with Liam. Harbour's ability to play the
insane serial killer is quite well executed in his delivery of threats
and the tone of his voice. As for Thompson, he captures the menacing
glare down pat, and knows some stage combat, but aside from that not
much in store. 

I'm sure you're saying though, I don't really care about the acting.
How is the story? Well in a one word summary it is dark. It is also one
of the more disturbing plots I've seen, that didn't cross into the soul
destroying area. A Walk Among the Tombstones brings tension to the
audience throughout the entire film in the hunting of the two disturbed
beings. The hunt is in the form of heavy detective work involving
talking to suspects, retracing footsteps and trying to piece
information together. For once, the mystery has a bit of realism to it,
forgoing the convenient pieces of information, for a process that
involves actually working for clues. As the movie progresses, the
ambiguous nature and seemingly simple motive starts to reveal itself.
With each new clue, the mentality of the perpetrators becomes clearer,
almost like one is watching an episode of Criminal Minds. Yet the
unstable psyche and constant calls of the psychos continue to
reestablish the terror of what will happen next. Sure, you have a good
idea of what the outcomes will be, but there is just enough uncertainty
to have you doubting your thoughts. 

Mixed into the bag is some character development amongst the various
players in the game, each with their own set of dark secrets that
explains why they are scarred for life. Some of these points are
relevant, but the mistake here is that they are played over and over
again as they build up to the revelation, one of which you already know
from the trailers. Other plot elements though are not so relevant or as
big as they thought. Some hasty connections were an attempt to add
another layer of depth to the story, but I felt the audience could have
done without them. Still it gives the cast a little more depth, and
provides some emotional depth to an otherwise monotone cast. Perhaps
the strongest element of the character development though is the
inspiration they have. Albeit a little cheesy in the presentation,
there is a good message to those who may have a similar history as
Neeson's character. The emphasis of facing your demons instead of
running from them is a lesson many could use a refresher course in. Yet
the message is drawn out, much like the background, and sometimes adds
unneeded length to the movie. 

As for the suspense of the movie, as mentioned I before it is the
psychotic mindset of the killers that keeps you in suspense. The only
problem with this though is that, with the exception of the last part
of the movie, the damage has already been done. Unfortunately for the
cast, many of the crimes have already been committed, which dulls the
intensity of their acts and makes the film a little boring at first. On
the opposite side of spectrum, is that some of the actions are a little
too well done, especially at times of torture. As stoic as I am against
the usual antics, this movie crossed the line a couple of times to
really disturb me. Thus, if you are one who gets REALLY AFFECTED BY
SCENES OF SUFFERING should turn a blind eye to this film, or at least
until they become a little tolerant. 

A Walk Among the Tombstones is a nice crime/drama to bide your time
with. Those looking for a little pre-Halloween terror will get your
fill with this movie, though in truth there are not a lot of
technological aspects that make it theater worthy. Still if you are
Liam Neeson fan, jump into this crime drama and be ready for a calmer
film than his legendary Taken film. My scores for this film are: 

Action/Crime/Mystery: 7.0 Movie Overall: 7.0
<|_=00=_|>
A Walk Among The Tombstones stars Liam Neeson as a private detective
who is hired by a drug-lord to investigate the murder of his wife and
what he discovers goes deeper than what he sees.

First of all, don't compare this to some of Neeson's latest popular
movies such as Taken and Unknown. This is different. Its not an action
movie. It is supposed to be a thriller but it is not the kind of
thriller that gets you on the edge of your seat. This is more like a
drama type of movie.

The storyline itself is decent although it does move rather slowly and
there are one or two things that are not really explained.

Overall it is enjoyable but its not the kind of movie you would go to
the cinema to see. You may want to rent the DVD instead.
