

We don't go to see movies about dueling alien species for deep themes
and intricate character development, but a little sympathy would be
nice. I didn't feel any sympathy for the characters in 'Alien vs.
Predator' because they were all unlikable clichés: The Heroine, The
Hero, The Nerd, The Tomboy, The Gruff Leader, et al. These carbon cut
out characters we've seen in hundreds of other films are all assembled
together by Charles Bishop Weyland (Lance Henriksen) in 'AvP' to
venture into the Antarctic, where they uncover an ancient pyramid
recently discovered by Weyland's multi-million dollar satellites
hovering about in space.

The movie is based, of course, upon the iconic 'Alien' and 'Predator'
films  the rights to which are both owned by Fox Studios. The concept
for the project originated with 'Predator 2' (1990), when a cop (played
by Danny Glover) ventured into a Predator spaceship. There, in the
'trophy room,' was the distinct skull of an Alien.

This small in-joke reference (similar to that of Freddy Kruger's claw
appearing in the 'Evil Dead' sequel) sparked a phenomenon of fans
speculating as to the meaning behind the very brief big-screen
insinuation. And due to strong requests, the two fictional species were
finally united together for a string of comic books, videogames, novels
and action figures in the early-'90s. By the year 2002, 'Alien vs.
Predator' had become one of Fox's most profitable off-screen
franchises. So, it was only reasonable to demand a film be made. By
October 2003, production was underway, with sets in Prague being
assembled.

And the film's director, Paul W. S. Anderson, has always excelled at
set design. In 'Event Horizon' he perfectly captured the dark essence
of the 'Alien' series; with 'Resident Evil' he managed to mimic the
Gothic structure of all great zombie movies. But, to be honest, that's
about it. He's never been any good at three other vital elements of
film-making: story, characters and direction. 'Alien vs. Predator' - a
project that took 14 astonishing years to bring to the big screen
(longer than 'Freddy vs. Jason') - doesn't do much to change this.

Yes, his set design here is fantastic (it's no surprise that a great
amount of pre-production work went into creating these enormous
surroundings). The pyramid is buried deep within the wastelands of the
Antarctic (2,000 feet, actually), which provides us with some great
cinematography and stages.

The plot could have used extra work, though. After venturing deep into
the pyramid, the team of scientists soon realizes that the pyramid is
- surprise, surprise! - actually the home of an alien hive. And
furthermore, a pack of teenaged Predators -- on an annual 'manhood'
hunting ritual -- are there, too, and they begin to draw the humans
into their fight, using them as bait.

The movie's cast is comprised of many newcomers and they are all
unimpressive. Sanaa Lathan ('Out of Time'), as Alexa, the heroine, is
rather annoying. Raoul Bova, playing the hero Sebastian, is the most
likable of the characters, but even then, he's simply no Arnold. 

Furthermore, the dialogue is completely lame. Sure, 'Predator' had lame
dialogue too ('Knock, knock!') but at least it was funny and delivered
with charisma. This movie unfortunately takes itself way too seriously.
I've heard many people quote lines from 'Predator' over the years ('I
ain't got time to bleed!' being a popular one). I can't imagine anyone
ever *wanting* to quote dialogue from this film.

Even Henriksen seems like he's just in it for the paycheck. (His
character, Charles 'Bishop' Weyland, is the billionaire who  according
to 'Alien' mythology -- creates the Bishop androids seen in 'Aliens'
and 'Alien 3,' which are modeled after his own image.) Is it any
coincidence that the only returning cast member from either series of
films happens to be the same actor whose career has devolved into
straight-to-video duds recently?

However, kudos must be handed to "'AvP's' creature effects artists
(mainly Tom Woodruff, Jr.). I had expected lots of CGI, but there are
also many close-ups of the Predators and Aliens played by thankless
actors in suits (and some good IL'-fashioned animatronics). Kevin Peter
Hall (the original Predator) passed away shortly after the release of
the film's sequel, but Anderson has comprised an acceptable team of
replacements (most of the actors being some seven feet tall!).

That, and the set design, and one or two OK action sequences, makes
'AvP' adequate for 'regular' cinema-goers expecting nothing more. If
you're just looking for the average Saturday night blow-'em-up action
flick, you could certainly do worse. But, for any true die-hard fans of
the films, this movie continually disappoints  and worst of all, due
to its restrictive PG-13 rating, the fights (which take place all too
often and rapidly become boring) are all over the place. We are not
'allowed' to see anything, which hinders the flow of the film. There
was more violence than I had expected, but still not enough. (For the
record, 'AvP' is the only film from either of the two series to ever
receive an under-R rating.) After negative test screenings, Fox Studios
decided to go against the will of the film's own director and brutally
chop the movie apart so that it could fit into a more marketable age
demographic. (So, the awkward flow in many of the sequences cannot be
entirely contributed to Anderson's directing skills.) The day the
official rating was released, fans across the world united online to
protest it. I can't say I blame them.

I had personally been looking forward to seeing this movie for quite
some time now, being a fan of both 'Alien' (1979) and 'Predator'
(1987). Yet I tried to view 'AvP' unbiased, and judge it on its own
terms, as a movie, and not particularly a sequel. It was a difficult
task, but the truth of the matter is that the film  as a stand-alone
project  is still not particularly enthralling. With its shameful
rating, poor acting, awful writing and mediocre direction, 'AvP'
disappoints the fans at every turn, and will probably leave non-fans
feeling a little wishy-washy. Fox has taken two of their greatest
franchises and turned them into a joke. 'AvP' is nothing more than
typical action fare which, all considered, isn't much of a compliment
at all.

2.5/5

<|_=00=_|>
Just watched it again yesterday - it's striking how good the action is
compared to the ridiculous dialogue. I completely understand why this
movie got such terrible reviews; after all, it marked the first "let's
make a quick buck" entry in the two beloved Alien and Predator
franchises and was done by a director who many felt didn't treat the
material with the respect it deserved. When I watched it yesterday I
got angry at times because some of the dialogue - well, most of it,
actually - is truly awful. It's hard to take characters or a story
seriously when nearly every sentence spoken resembles lines from a
parody of cheap science-fiction and horror movies from the fifties and
sixties. But despite all those flaws I have to admit I enjoyed the
movie from start to finish - because of the amazing set- and
creature-design and the more than decent action sequences and special
effects. Whoever designed those really scored and seems to have a great
love for the art of Giger and the previous films. So if you can get
past the silly characters and you're able to ignore the more obvious
shortcomings (like the idiotic decision to make the film PG-13) you're
in for a fun ride. My vote: 6.5 out of 10.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
Paul W. S. Anderson, the man who has directed previous travesties as
"Mortal Kombat" and "Resident Evil" doesn't fail to live up to his
standards which consist of a horrible script, cheesy "2 kewl 4 skool"
directing styles, weak cast, and every other weakness in a film you can
think of. The only person who rivals his ineptness is none other than
Uwe Boll. He has already ruined other franchises with his previous
films, and now by directing and writing Alien vs. Predator, he has
managed to ruin two movie series at the same time.

The story of this film is bay far the weakest aspect of this derision
of a movie. All the previous Alien/Predator films had simple plots with
good dialogue. Just simply there was a monster trying to kill the good
guys, and they had to survive it. The stories were so uncomplicated yet
incredibly well written that the viewer could not possibly complain
that the story was bad. Alien vs. Predator however attempts to be a
big, complex story with deep meaning to it, but it just comes off as
being stupid and try hard. Paul, a complex story is good, only if you
know how to write that is.

It's about a pyramid that is discovered on Earth in Antarctica. It
turns out that this pyramid was part of the first human civilisation
ever, that the Predators built it for the humans long ago, and in
return, the humans worshiped the Predators as gods and acted as hosts
for the captive alien Queens eggs that are in the pyramid, to make
Aliens for the predators to hunt, not for sport like in the previous
Predator films, but to prove that they are men. When modern day people
go to investigate this pyramid, they become the new hosts for the
Aliens that they Predators are going to hunt.

Not only is this completely unbelievable, (a pyramid in Antarctica?
Come on) but it totally contradicts the previous Alien and Predator
movies. In each Alien movie the point of the film was, "Don't let the
Aliens get to Earth or they will kill everything!" Yet in this movie it
was like, "Oh the Aliens have been on Earth the entire time and it
wasn't really that bad now that we think about it." The previous
Predator films are contradicted as well because the Predators are
portrayed as creatures who are noble warriors, who actually respect
humans and will help them if need be, rather than the ruthless
merciless hunters who killed for sport and would kill a human just out
of spite if he looked at him funny. Having Predators help humans build
societies contradicts their nature, and takes away the mysteriousness
and awesomeness of the Predator character. 

But the thing is even as a stand alone film it's a very weak story. It
can be compared to the later Jaws movies where you saw too much of the
shark. Both extraterrestrial species are too in your face and have no
mystery; leaving them just look like guys in rubber suits running
around punching each other. Human characters have so little character
development that often you don't even get to learn their names before
they are killed, and so much more makes you feel like the script was
made from a tipped over box of alphabet cereal. 

Here's a perfect example of how bad the dialogue is in AVP. 

FemaleTechnician: What is it? 

Male Technician: It's a data stream from PS12.

Female Technician: Where is she? 

Male Technician: Right above sector 14. 

Female Technician: There isn't anything in sector 14. 

Male Technician: The is now.

It is obvious in that piece of dialogue that Paul W. S. Anderson
doesn't know anything about mapping or geography. Look moron, there is
no such thing as this elusive "sector 14", things are mapped using
latitude and longitude, bearings and such. Secondly for this Female
Technician to have said on the spot, "There's nothing in sector 14"
implies that she has memorised the presumably thousands of sectors all
over the world and what is in each and every one of them so she can
recall instantly off the top of her head that the isn't anything in
sector 14. This is just one example of how cheesy and full of holes the
very dialogue in Alien vs. Predator can be.

It is clear that a movie this bad was made only for the action, not the
story. The thing is, in this whole move THERE ARE ONLY TWO FIGHT
SCENES! If you are going to make a movie that has no good script which
is only about the action, put in a decent amount of fighting at least!

AND THE PG-13 RATING?! Every other Alien/Predator film released before
this one had and R rating. This film has been dumbed down for kids so
much, that about 95% of the movies deaths or other injuries were off
screen. You would see an Alien just getting near a guy before the
camera would cut away, leaving you thinking, "So not only do we have no
story but we have no gore?! I want my money back!" The line "You are
one ugly mother fer" which is the trademark line of each other
Predator film had the last word of it not filmed to keep the low
rating! Yet earlier in the film they said, "I hope it kills every fing
one of them!". Why did they decide to put the F word in earlier when it
wasn't necessary, yet cut it out later when it was?! If they had of
just shifted the F word to the ugly mother part then there could have
been just as many F words yet still kept the trademark line!

It's a POS movie. The 1000 word limit has stopped me from going on.
<|_=00=_|>
A team assembled by a billionaire investigate a heat signal that
reveals a pyramid below the surface of a whaling station in Antarctic.
However, the pyramid is a hunting ground for Predators who kill Aliens
as a rite of passage and the team find themselves caught in the middle
of their hunt.

It shouldn't have been mixed, Paul W.S. Anderson's AVP: Alien vs.
Predator was more so unjustly panned by critics and fans due to the
hype and anticipation. It has the feeling of an Alien film, a great
premise, good cinematography, some amazing effects and a fine score.

Paul W.S. Anderson is successful in bringing the franchises together,
respecting ideas from both Alien and Predator movies. I haven't seen a
bad film that he's made and I'm not sure why there is such a geek gang
hatred against the mans work. The ever-improving Uwe Boll he is not!
The strong leads include Sanaa Lathan as the heroine and Raoul Bova.
However, unfortunately actors Carsten Norgaard as Rusten Quinn and
Tommy Flanagan as Mark Verheiden disappear far too early. Overall the
acting is good, Lance Henrikson shows up as the 'real' Bishop but some
of the characters lack development and the editing feels choppy in
places.

The Predators and Aliens look great apart from some badly executed CGI.
It not Ridley Scott or John McTiernan, but Paul Anderson pulls off the
almost impossible task of putting these to aliens together on screen.

If there was not an Alien or Predator film prior to this it may have
been haled as a science fiction adventure classic, but alas that's not
the case.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this expecting a horrible movie. From all the reviews that
I read I thought it would be HORRIBLE! I've seen many, many worse
movies than this.

A previous comment stated the movie went a bit too fast in explaining
things and developing the characters. While I can certainly agree on
the former, the latter, well, you just know most of the people are
going to get wasted so character development isn't that necessary. We
came to see Predators hunt and fight with Aliens.

One thing I didn't like was the movie showed the Aliens more powerful
than the Predators. I believe the canon shows the Predators are much
more powerful than the Aliens. Regardless, I liked this movie.

This movie surprised me because there were many things I didn't expect.
Were some scenes over the top? Absolutely, but this is Hollywood and
we're talking Aliens V Predator here :) IF you are a fan of these
genres you really should give this movie a chance.
<|_=00=_|>

Most people going into this film want to see one thing: Aliens and
Predators rip into each other. I suspect a great many geeks and lame
individuals inhabiting message boards of every corner of the internet
will complain that this film spends too much time with the humans when
the name of the film is 'Alien versus Predator' and they couldn't care
about the humans, and another sect will whine about how shallow the
film is to jump right to the big fight as soon as it can possibly set
it up. 

The nice thing about the Freddy vs Jason premise is the fact that most
of the Elm Street films and none of the Friday the 13th films had any
substance to them, so throwing the two juggernauts into a battle rumble
with each other with a side of useless characters and uninspired plot
shouldn't have phased anyone but the most deluded of fans. I really
liked FvsJ more so than all but the Craven-driven Elm Streets and the
all the F13s.

Alien vs Predator is quite a bit different since I love Ridley Scott's
Alien and James Cameron's Aliens, and though I don't hold Predator 1 &
2 on the same level, I'm still pretty fond of the original Predator
film (been too long since I've seen Predator 2). The Alien series (and
to a much lesser extent, the Predator series too) has always been about
depth . . . so to just throw the two monsters at each other and let
them rip into each other really does not do them any justice and strips
away what makes their films so good to begin with. 

So . . . AVP takes a middle path. It attempts to build up the
characters to an extent, it attempts to give a valid reason for both
the Aliens and Predators to be in the same location, and it attempts to
do it as quickly as it can. How well does it succeed? I found myself
wishing it would either slow down more or pick up the pace. 

I'm very pleased to see the stylish Paul Anderson lead this tangled and
difficult project. His nods to the original films, in jokes, and slower
paced setup were much appreciated from me. Ninety minutes of guys in
rubber suits cut with CG monsters fighting constantly just will not cut
it. I felt Anderson rushed the setup (or the studio rushed him); but
part of me did grow bored of the characters rather quickly, and I did
want to see the Alien and Predators get together sooner than they did.

The lingering time between bouts did create more tension and
anticipation for the coming fights, which I admired, and when the
beasts finally sank claws and teeth into one another I found myself
more or less satisfied. At first I felt somewhat let down by how
seemingly easily a few Predators went down; however, then I remembered
these things were fighting Aliens with bare fists and blades when Space
Marines were getting slaughtered with state of the art artillery. 

A classless director would have started with a bang, ended with a bang,
and had a boring parade of bangs. When I want meaningless, yet
entertaining, bangs I buy firecrackers and save myself both time and
money. Paul Anderson strived for something more, and pretty much came
through. While I did like the film and the idea of Aliens and Predators
fighting it out, I couldn't help but compare it to the superior films
that inspired it. As fun as AVP is, and as much as I like Paul Anderson
. . . he is not Ridley Scott and this is not Alien.

<|_=00=_|>
Reading some of the harsh reviews I thought I would comment. The big
disappointment for me in the movie was the lack of gore , fox did get
it wrong to make it a pg13 even though they tried to substitute it with
monster gore. All that being said this movie is a visual master-peace,
the effects are top notch with very good fight scenes and creature
effects with the best looking Alien Queen to hit the screens, The story
is pretty cool and it gives more insight of the Predators, It takes a
while for the introduction of the creatures but once the ball is
rolling its none stop action. Not the horror feast we all wanted but
fun.
<|_=00=_|>

So there is this book out there, by a wonderful writer named Stephen
Perry. He wrote and Alien vs. Predator book years ago. I loved the
book. I loved it, and obviously lots of other people did too because it
was turned into a large graphic novel. 

So what does this have to do with the movie? It's the same awesome
story! Sure there are differences, but basically, it's the same story
about clan respect and the thrill of the hunt. 

This one has a group of three "preteen" predators out on their trip to
man hood, a group of would-be scientists, and a group of "freezer
burnt" aliens.

The hunt commences, and action ensues!

As for the spoilers - here they are. The predator/human relationship.
How many people thought it was supposed to be some kind of stupid love
story! IT WASN'T! In the book, this was explained a little better I
think, and would be a lot easier for others to understand. It's a show
of respect. He accepts her as a predator because she kills an alien. In
the book - the predator she saves was originally one of the high
ranking predators. He's ended up on his own, and the girl saves his
life. In show of mutual clan respect, the Predator marks her, and they
go on fighting "the good fight" so to speak.

either way - loved the movie. If you hated it, give me your extra
tickets and I'll go see it again!

<|_=00=_|>
Alien Versus Predator starts great and then it gets better and better.
We have the two deadliest space monsters of the last twenty years and
thankfully they are not involved in a production full of clichés.

Paul W.S Anderson is not afraid of risk. When the easier thing to do
would be showing the creatures killing some humans from the first
seconds of AVP and minutes later have them killing each other for an
hour, the director creates suspense and develop the main characters
without losing the rhythm of the movie.

The story has interesting characters (Lance Henriksen as Charles Bishop
Weyland is a real sign of respect for the fan). It is highly remarkable
that the cast involved play intelligent adults, luckily there's no high
school students; so many years have gone since the last sequel of Alien
and Hollywood could perfectly spoil it again using people like Sarah
Michelle Gellar or Matthew Lillard. The way the script uses the strong
elements of both mythologies is very clever as it is the display of
personality of the main Predator. After all, Predators are a
extraterrestrials with more sophisticated technology than humans, they
don't communicate with the earthlings until they prove to be worthy the
communication.

Almost all of the action movies use and abuse CGI nowadays but AVP uses
these FX wisely mixing them with puppets, that results in a film not
just a video-game. The results are bombastic in that aspect, and
there's enough blood from the Aliens and Predators to satisfy the
thirst from gore fans.

And what about the confrontation of the ugly-faced stars?
Unforgettable. AVP has some of the most powerful images created in any
of these franchises mainly in the confrontation sequences.
<|_=00=_|>
Another great movie spoiled by bad initial critique. And most people
jumping on the bandwagon. They moved production of this movie out of
Hollywood and lots of people virtually lost jobs to some east European
studios where they shot most of the scenes. Lots of anger was present
in Hollywood about this, no surprise that initial reviews were strictly
negative. This movie is superb in nearly all aspects I watched it more
times then all the prequels combined. I like the lead actress and
Henriksen as Bishop Weyland, some crew man are actually more
interesting then the crew in some Alien prequels, and of course the CGI
is finally watchable and say state of the art, not some lame blinking
LEDs all over.
