
I recently re-watched the first Jeepers Creepers and I don't really get
why so many people seem to hate it. Sure, it had quite a disappointing
climax and Victor Salva is an infamous figure in Hollywood but his
visions did lead to one of the best horror films in the post-Scream
era. And the same goes for part two! If you leave logic behind, this is
quite an intense and well-elaborated scary movie. Opposite to most
directors nowadays, Salva perfectly knows how to create suspenseful
situations and emotional devastation. The Creeper (portrayed once again
by Jonathan Breck) is a far-fetched new horror icon but it does bring
terror in the most isolated outlands of America. This sequel takes
place a few days after the original (of which the happenings can be
heard on radio-broadcasts all the time) and features a bus full of high
school jocks and cheerleaders terrorized by the Creeper. Judging by
their fear's smell, he picks out victims to devour and to re-furnish
his rotting corpse. 

Victor Salva makes great use of the 'surprise element'. All the
characters in Jeepers Creepers are equally meaningless so you never
really know who will get killed next. Even the most popular jock, the
most innocent child or the cutest girl can die at any time and this
results in an exiting drop-out race of which you don't want to miss a
second. The film is not as gore as you might think and the stress is
more laid on tension. Salva and his crew use the remote location to the
fullest and the film contains eerie shots of wide cornfields and roads
with no chance for shelter. The cast of young and inexperienced kids do
a fairly good job. The only familiar face in Jeepers Creepers 2 is Ray
Wise (from the cult series 'Twin Peaks'). This film will never be a
classic but at least its entertaining horror without much pretension.
<|_=00=_|>
2 years after the surprising success of "Jeepers Creepers", Victor
Salva returns with a sequel that continues where the original left.
Although at first reluctant to making a sequel, Salva crafts a
competent horror film that continues exploring the formula of the
supernatural hunter in the desolated rural setting. Despite having the
obvious flaws of a minor sequel, "Jeepers Creepers II" is a worthy
follow up that has its own share of tricks to keep the fans happy.

The plot of the film follows a school bus of a local high school that
just won the championship and are on their way back home. To their
misfortune, the Creeper (Jonathan Breck) is one the loose as he is on
the final day of his 23 days eating cycle, so this ruthless hunter will
do whatever is necessary to find food before his time runs out. But the
Creeper has another problem, he is being hunted down by Jack Taggart
(Ray Wise) the father of one of his victims who is looking for revenge.

While it lacks the originality of the first one, "Jeepers creepers II"
has a more focused and consistent plot due to the fact that the Creeper
is now an identifiable villain. Victor Salva's new tale of rural horror
is now a full-fledged supernatural horror in the vein of Wes Craven's
"A Nightmare on Elm Street", where typical elements of Americana become
sources of horror. Having most of the movie set inside of the school
bus with the cast's fears and personalities clashing makes a good
source for classic suspense and tension between characters.

Visually, the film is a step forward and showcases that deep down the
obvious commercial intentions of this film, Salva is still an artist
that has a great eye for visual compositions. His camera-work does
miracles both in and out of the school bus (the movie's main location)
and he captures the lovely and scary things about rural North America.
The visual effects of the film are not as good as in the first one, but
they are still effective and the CGI is not that dominant.

The young cast does a fine job and the overall performance is not as
poor as one could expect. However, they are nothing spectacular and
some seem to had been chosen based more on looks rather than talent.
The two veterans of the movie are where talent is. Jonathan Breck and
Ray Wise give the film soul as the opposite forces who are destined to
clash. Breck is quite good as the Creeper and looks more comfortable in
the role now; Wise on the other hand, is a scene stealer and he owns
the film every time he is on screen.

"Jeepers Creepers II" has a lot of what's good about modern horror
movies, but sadly, it carries also some of the worst. The fast packed
action at times gets distracting and contrasts badly with Salva's
honest attempts to create suspense and atmosphere. There is an apparent
effort in developing characters and while in some cases it works, in
others it terribly fails (due mostly to the actor's lack of talent).
also, it is fair to point out that the movie lacks the scares of the
first one as it has more in common with the final part of it. It is
great fun and entertainment, but if scares are what you are looking,
better look elsewhere.

To summarize, the film is an entertaining and very well-directed scary
movie that makes a worthy sequel to the original one. Victor Salva's
second part of the series is a good addition if you liked the first
one, otherwise it will be just another teen horror movie. Personally I
liked it, but it would be wiser to rent it first. 6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
JEEPERS CREEPERS II 

Aspect ratio: 2.39:1 (Panavision)

Sound formats: Dolby Digital / DTS

Stranded in a broken-down bus on a lonely country road, a group of high
school jocks and cheerleaders are targeted by the monstrous Creeper
(Jonathan Breck) who needs their body parts for the purposes of
regeneration. But the Creeper hasn't reckoned on the tenacity of one of
its earlier victims (Ray Wise), a grieving father seeking revenge for
the loss of his youngest son...

Though crafted with technical precision and performed with gusto by a
strong cast of newcomers and veterans, this disappointing sequel
sacrifices the heartfelt emotional undertow of its magnificent
predecessor JEEPERS CREEPERS (2000) in favor of bigger and splashier
set-pieces. While it's as raucous and entertaining as one could hope
for, it's also a surprisingly conventional effort from writer-director
Victor Salva, whose best work (POWDER, RITES OF PASSAGE, etc.) has
always focused on small groups of characters caught up in extreme
situations. Here, his attempts to shoehorn deeper issues into what is
essentially a popcorn movie seems forced and inconsequential, and he
spreads his narrative concerns too thinly over a broad range of
interchangeable characters: The elements of homophobia and racism which
initially divide the young heroes - until they're forced to overcome
their differences in order to survive the Creeper's onslaught - are
rendered increasingly meaningless as the movie progresses, until they
no longer have any direct influence on the wider storyline.

But Salva is too much of a craftsman for his movie to be a complete
washout. The action/horror set-pieces are genuinely spectacular, and
Breck camps it up superbly as the hideous Creeper, swooping out of the
darkness to carry unsuspecting victims to their doom. Working in scope
format for the first time in their respective careers (REAL scope, not
that Super 35 rubbish), Salva and cinematographer Don E. FauntLeRoy
conjure a series of startling images from the outset, many of them
tinged with visual poetry: The golden cornfield in the opening
sequence, where the film's first victim suffers an appalling fate (a
genuinely horrific set-piece); the point-of-view shots from the
Creeper's perspective as it swoops on fleeing prey; and the eerie calm
of the closing sequence, which portends sequels to come. Salva's
regular composer, Bennett Salvay, delivers a terrific symphonic score,
as brassy and frightening as any in recent years, which serves to boost
the film's dramatic appeal in no uncertain terms.

Wise, a late addition to the cast, dominates the film as an avenging
farmer who is every bit the Creeper's equal in terms of strength and
persistence, and he's given strong support by veterans Diane Delano and
Thom Gossom Jr. The younger cast members are enthusiastic and talented,
and it's a fair bet that some of them (Travis Schiffner, Al Santos,
Nicki Aycox, etc.) will figure heavily in various Hunkiest/Sexiest
lists during the next few years. Look out for a brief - but welcome -
cameo appearance by Justin Long from "JC1". It may not live up to every
expectation, but there's still much to enjoy in JEEPERS CREEPERS II.
<|_=00=_|>
Decent follow-up to Jeepers Creepers takes place just days after the
original. The story focuses on a group of athletic high school kids (a
varsity team along with their coaches and cheerleaders), who are on
their way home when they get stranded in the middle of nowhere after
their bus breaks down. They soon come to the terrifying realization
that it wasn't an accident, and that they're all being hunted by a
meticulous monster who's in the midst of a timely feeding frenzy. At
times exciting, with more than enough violence and effective scares
make this good fun if you're willing to pardon the annoyingly one-note
characters and banal dialogue. **Â½
<|_=00=_|>
Sequel to the terrific 2001 horror film is a wildly fun ride, even if
it doesn't quite live up to the chilling original.

On the final evening of his annual feeding, the Creeper terrorizes a
bus load of students, while a local farmer is looking for some revenge.

While it may lack some of the unique elements of the original film
(like the Creeper's truck, the title song, etc.) this sequel is still a
highly-energized and occasionally spooky thriller. There's plenty of
action, impressive makeup FX, moments of gruesome humor, and tightening
suspense to drive it. Once again Salva delivers good directorial
touches and an entertaining story.

The cast, headed by veteran actor Ray Wise, is good. Especially good
are the relatively unknown young stars Nenninger, Aycox, Schiffner,
Brown, Hammond, and Delfino. Breck returns as the Creeper and is
creepier than ever.

While Jeepers Creepers 2 is never as scary as its predecessor it is a
very entertaining sequel.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Not since the early days of Wes Craven thrillers have we had a really
good fright flick to scare us in true Halloween fashion. This one does
the trick thanks to some extra good CGI effects and some scary
situations in the middle of a deserted countryside where teens find
themselves menaced by a winged creature determined to make them his
flesh-eating victims.

In the only adult role, RAY WISE does a convincing job of making it all
look reasonable enough to swallow--and it owes a lot of its punch to
the imaginative tales of authors like Stephen King. There are no
standout performances among the various teens, but all of them look
incredibly afraid of the winged creature--with good reason. The make-up
job here is marvelously chilling.

The story is the stuff dreams are made of--or rather, nightmares. And
it's all done with extremely clever build-up of suspense as the teens,
one by one, become divisive and challenge each other in ways that only
undermine their vulnerability. A few of the scenes are very graphic in
depicting the creature's stranglehold on his victims and not for the
squeamish--or the young and impressionable.

Recommended as a good fright flick, nothing more. But credit must be
given to director Victor Salva for keeping the whole tale tense and
taut with visual excitement.

Summing up: An above average thriller of its kind. Jonathan Breck makes
one scary Creeper.
<|_=00=_|>

*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*

So the Creeper comes back. Jeepers. The Creeper gets horny every 23
years.
Lucky for him, a bunch of hunky guys get stranded in the middle of
nowhere.
This turns the Creeper on. The rest of the movie has the Creeper trying
to
pick them up and carry them away to his love shack. A farmer comes around
with a harpoon gun to bag his own Moby Dick.

The Creeper has a thing for guys. Girls don't interest him. When I saw
the
three girls in this one, I knew they were not picked for their hot
bodies. I
don't know what they were picked for. When he stares into the school bus
looking for his next hot meal, he licks the glass as he makes longing
eyes
at them. This is how he lets guys know he wants them. There are also a
ton
of scenes with the guys tanning their bodies. The guys also sing a song
that
has the c-word for the male sex organ repeated numerous times. This song
was
all the Creeper needed to hear to know that they swing his
way.

"Jeepers Creepers 2" is as brain dead as a horror movie can get. The
school
bus breaks down, the Creeper flies around and that's it. There's not much
here in the way of variety or imagination. There were some decent action
scenes as the farmer went night fishing for Creeper. "Jeepers Creepers 2"
would make a decent rental.

But there is only one thing on the Creeper's mind, and it ain't eating.
Love
shack! Baby Love Shack! Hop in my Chrysler, it's as big as a WHALE!!!


<|_=00=_|>
Now this is what I call some good old entertainment. The creeper is one
of the best movie icons out there in my opinion. I thought the first
movie was quite mediocre. It was all a bit too cheesy for my liking.
But then this sequel came. At first, I didn't't expect too much from
it: I rented it at the local Videoland. But when I watched it, I was
sold. I bought it at the very next opportunity and I watched it 3 times
so far (quite a lot in my book). It's too bad the dutch release is a
sorry excuse for a DVD but hey, this one is all about the contents! The
plot is quite simplistic, and it's no Oscar material but if you're
looking for some good entertainment with a mean "mofo" playing the star
of the evening, this should be your pick. The action is wonderful and
it has a healthy dose of humorous moments (well, they may not be
humorous to some but to me they are :)).
<|_=00=_|>
I really resent that talent and genius have no say in who they inhibit.
It hurts that I enjoy a Woody Allen movie or book, and it hurts when I
like the Jeepers Creepers films.. Victor Salva was convicted of raping
one of his 12 year old co stars in one of his earlier films. He went to
prison, paid a fine and now he is out, making millions of dollars and
probably watching a lot of child pornography at home ( which he was
also convicted of) I suppose , unlike Woody Allen, at least this guys
movies make sense. He makes twisted movies, horror films. Which you
would half way expect from someone that did. So despite my real
trepidation at giving a high rating , it is a good horror movie. So is
the first. Great idea, great monster, great horror. I have to admit.
Thought it less than a coincidence that these movies feature a
monster/demon that feeds on and mutilates young men ( Victor Salvas
type) that in this particular film, they are shirtless, good looking
and sun bathing. That the demon seems to become sexually aroused at the
sight of them, licking the window and shuddering as if having a orgasm
, while they scream in fear. Yep. This is probably a jack off movie for
the director and I'm sure he probably violated a few of these fame
hungry actors in more than one way . But it's a good horror movie.
Period.
<|_=00=_|>
More elaborate sequel to the effective monster movie of 2001, "Jeepers
Creepers II" is more about action than anything else. It's definitely
not as creepy (although it does have its spooky moments) and since we
now know a fair bit about the Creeper, the mystery element is gone.
This story takes place on the last day of the Creeper's feeding cycle,
a few days after the events of the first film. A basketball team is
returning from a championship game, and the Creeper, after snatching a
kid away from his farmer father, tails the teams' bus, crippling it by
ruining the tires with something akin to a ninja's throwing stars. It
proceeds to decimate the coaching staff & the bus driver, and then
terrorize the teens, making sure they can't escape. It's true enough
that there are many points in the script with which a viewer can take
issue - even yours truly had a hard time buying some of them, and he's
a pretty forgiving person. Things tend to get particularly muddled when
it comes to the big climax as the teens finally leave the bus, and we
wonder where they all get to from scene to scene. It does take a lot of
suspension of disbelief to enjoy this movie, but if one can accomplish
this, "Jeepers Creepers II" does reward us with some exciting moments
and some extremely amusing money shots. For one thing, it's a total
hoot to see the Creeper forced to regenerate certain body parts. It
gets a LOT more damage done to it this time around; it's good to see
various assorted characters be able to fight back. Particularly
interesting is the vengeance-obsessed farmer Jack Taggart (veteran
character actor Ray Wise ("RoboCop", 'Twin Peaks') getting a rare case
of top billing), who fashions some killing implements using his post
puncher. Naturally, due to there being a greater number of characters
this time around, they don't get fleshed out too much, although writer
/ director Victor Salva tries to give the material some meat by
introducing an element of racism. Overall, this suffers the same fate
as many sequels, lacking the originals' freshness and in truth it
doesn't give the viewer too many people for whom they can really root.
At least it allows Justin Long to reprise his Darry character from the
first film, appearing in ghostly form to offer warnings and information
to one of the characters here. Nothing especially good, but not bad
either; fortunately, one thing it's not is boring. Seven out of 10.
