
"Mission: Impossible III," the latest installment of the blockbuster
movies which in turn were based from a TV series, is for those looking
for a way to start off the summer season at the movies. Here is a movie
filled with action and nothing more. There are the usual: Tom Cruise
running and getting banged up, high degrees of improbability,
explosions, gadgets, the whole shebang. Still, "M:I:III" is a
fast-paced thriller that manages to get hold of you for the 120-minute
span of its running hour and never lets go.

After retiring as Impossible Missions Force (IMF) team leader to lead a
"normal" life with his fianceé Julia (Michelle Monaghan), Ethan Hunt
(Cruise) returns to the team to help recapture criminal arms dealer
Owen Davian (Philip Seymour Hoffman) who has escaped from prison and is
now making life difficult for the IMF. As for Hunt, his encounter with
Davian has upped the ante for him: he not only has to save the world
now, he also has to save the woman he loves. Cruise (either you love
him or you hate him) still fits into his role well, and Hoffman, who
has just won an Oscar for his portrayal of Truman Capote, also
effectively displays a chilling seriousness to his villain role. The
rest of the cast - Billy Crudup, Ving Rhames, Maggie Q, Michelle
Monaghan, etc. - all give nice performances.

It's a given that this film would offer little in terms of intellect or
depth in the script. Yet the way director J.J. Abrams and his
co-writers injected humor and emotions, plus how its action scenes were
superbly handled, save "M:I:III" from becoming just another passable
popcorn movie which is why I liked it. It is a film intended solely for
the purpose of escapism and it achieves that purpose. Although there is
a feeling that it could have been more, it easily surpasses the first
two "M:I" in an explosively stylish way.
<|_=00=_|>
J.J. Abrams, creator of Lost, takes on the third instalment of the
action franchise, which sees human yo-yo Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) in
rare human mode as he plans on making an early retirement to be with
his nurse wife (Michelle Monaghan), only to be go on another impossible
mission as he plans catching sadistic arms dealer Owen Davian (Philip
Seymour Hoffman). To aid him are Ving Rhames, Jonathon Rhys-Meyers and
Maggie Q, and, this being a third, there are gadgets, explosions, sets
and plot twists like now other.

You've got to hand it to Abrams  he certainly knows how to keep an
audience on their toes. Drawing on a few of his popular plot devices
from Lost (flashbacks, a crescendo to the turning point), he sets us up
neatly into his little world, where Ethan Hunt is now a man trying to
live a normal life. Whilst that scenario may be a hard to buy, this is
redeemed by the many action scenes in the film which are each
exhilarating. To go into detail would be spoiling it, but let's just
say there is an extremely breathtaking sequence involving a fulcrum, an
amusing one involving Tom Cruise disguising himself as someone, and
lastly, but by no means least a helicopter chase which is utterly
awe-inspiring and barely lets the audience pause for breath. All this,
and you get a Michael Giacchino score that perfectly blends action,
anxiety, fear and anger.

The cast in themselves are a treat. Tom Cruise, though not given the
most trying of tasks in playing an action hero, does a good job with
his usual intensity. In the action scenes, his facial expressions are
concentrated and focused and utterly convincing. However, Cruise fails
in having any genuine chemistry with Michelle Monaghan, for and the
romance comes across as rather bland. This is not aided with the poor
writing in these scenes. Ving Rhames, Jonathan Rhys-Meyers and Maggie Q
merely look cool as his helpers, and Laurence Fisburne and Billy Crudup
successfully bring that edge of moral ambiguity to their characters.
And Philip Seymour Hoffman is excellently malicious as the elusive and
extremely dangerous Davian, shining in his lizard-eyed role and
bringing some genuine terror to the villain. His scenes aside Tom
Cruise are superb, as they practically tremble in tension and quiet
hatred on both characters parts.

You will go to see Mission Impossible III expecting some grand-scale
set pieces, and you will not be disappointed here. Each one of the four
is masterfully executed, with a breezy slickness that is both cool and
exciting. We're talking non-stop action, occasionally interspersed with
those corny Hollywood love formulae, cruising as "emotion." Its big,
its bombastic, and it could be the Summer blockbuster of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this as a sneak preview with my fraternity. I was hesitant to see
it because of how bad Mission Impossible 2 was, but I think it more
than makes up for the 2nd flop and I would even argue that it's better
than the first. The action really is non-stop, and there aren't any
cheesy love scenes slowing anything down. The bad guy doesn't change
every five minutes either. The plot moves quickly but it doesn't lose
the audience at all. You don't need to have seen either of the first
two to understand what is going on (I can't remember the plot from
either). Lots of guns, loud explosions, cool gadgets and fun locations.
I can remember on more than one occasion where the audience clapped or
reacted to the action. It does everything an action movie should do
very well. I would highly advise anyone who likes action movies to go
see it. Even if you think Tom Cruise is a little insane, MI:III is
extremely enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
I heard nothing but good things about this movie, so I rented it the
first day it was available recently.....and I wasn't disappointed. Oh,
it does have a bit too much action and a few politically-correct
annoyances but neither are much and overall the movie is a lot of fun
to watch.

The action scenes are not only interesting; they're spectacular at
times. Overall, the photography is slick. It's a good visual movie. Not
only the cinematography, but the director did a nice job with many of
these shots. The version doesn't have all the gimmicks the first
Misssion Impossible film, but it certainly has the best action scenes.
The only bad movie of the three MIs was the second one. This one makes
up for that.

All the characters are interesting. Philip Seymour Hoffman, as usual,
is excellent as the main villain "Owen Damien." Michelle Monaghan makes
for an attractive fiancée of Cruise in this movie, but her role is not
a major one. Cruise's "team" is fun to watch: a PC group consisting of
a white guy, black guy and Asian woman.

The action is improbable as Cruise's "Ethan Hunt" would have to be
Superman to perform the stunts and acrobatics he does here. (I would
never claim this movie is credible, or even "intelligent" - just
escapist fun.)

Just put your brains on hold, and go along for the wild ride. The name
of the game is entertainment, and this movie provides it in spades,
hence the good rating.
<|_=00=_|>
If you liked "The Bourne Supremacy," then... go watch it again instead
of seeing this movie.

MI:3 tries to have intrigue, espionage, action, suspense, and a
touching romantic subplot, but it falls short on all levels. There is
no 'mystery' to the mystery - only vagueness and obscurity that fails
to engage the imagination. The action is unoriginal and confusing, and
the "Ethan's love interest" plot line is more of a hindrance than an
enhancement. The 'twist' ending fell flat as no suspense had been built
and I didn't really care about the characters or their mission. The
eventual (and obligatory) scene in which the bad guy explains "why" is
simplistic and lacks any sense of high drama.

Paramount has managed to take one of the most incredible high-concept
television series of all time and in the course of three films turn it
into a mediocre franchise that bears only a passing (and mostly
musical) resemblance to the source material.

On the plus side, Hoffman is brilliant as always, and the people in
this movie are certainly pretty (Maggie Q wearing an evening gown that
qualifies as "half-a-dress" is definitely a highlight). It's not that
it's a BAD movie, but there's nothing great or worthwhile about it.
5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Well, this was straight to the point. Finally Hollywood seems to be
over their boring (hoping for Oscar) drama movies. Good old Cruise
returning as Ethan Hunt is what you will see here. Action consisting of
explosions, clever bombs, helicopter chases, flashbacks to True Lies
without spoiling too much, evil villains, heartbreaking stunts and a
pretty okay script is what you can expect.

Some predictable scenes, but the fast paced action made the effort
worth it with some very welcome ideas. You also got to love the
scenery. Berlin, Vatikan and China is refreshing to see.

007 look out, hard to match this one! 

Long time since I had such fun at the cinema. 9/10!
<|_=00=_|>
In this third film of the series, Ethan Hunt has retired from the
field, and is training new agents. His sweetheart Julia (Michelle
Monaghan) thinks he works for the Department of Transportation 

When one of his pupils is kidnapped by a sadistic arms dealer Owen
Davian (Philip Seymour Hoffman), Hunt decides to assemble his old team
to retrieve her, putting in mortal danger his new love 

J.J. Abramsin his first feature filmshot "Mission: Impossible III"
with a sense of timing and suspense We're dealing with full-flash
blanks, glass breaking, explosions And we see Hunt, in a quite
interesting shot, running up a wall to enter the Vatican Also, in the
bridge sequence, he runs away from a rocket hit on one of the vehicles
It's cool because the way he's running, the look on his face, before,
during and after that impact could only have been done only by an actor
as good as him In China, in an old fishing village, we see him jumping
off tile rooftops, with incredible grace, precision, coordination and
footwork Then, with Lindsey Farris (Keri Russell) they jump out of a
building on a cable landing on a truck 

The special effects, and visual effects are great They all work
together... The Shanghai street chase with Tom leaning out of the car
at some insanely dangerous angle to shoot a gun under a truck; Also
Tom, in a high-speed boat, on the Tiber River in Rome, Italy; the
blowing of a nice spectacular sports car; and, of course, the
helicopter chase sequence where, in pursuit, the bad-guy helicopter
emerges out of a fireball

Also, in a fantastic shot, in Shanghai, China, when the camera comes in
and then goes around Tom as he's standing on top of a Shanghai roof
The camera comes over his shoulder and look down at the ground, so
we'll see Tom on the top of the Shanghai building, hundreds feet in the
air, and just to show and set up the jeopardy of what he's about to
accomplish

Well, I loved the director's work He's so detail-orientedThe fun, the
adventure, the creativity, never eased up 

And, please, don't miss Colleen Atwood, entering the Vatican, with a
head-turner red dress
<|_=00=_|>
I personally did not have to much expectations to this one. Thought it
would be just like number 1 and 2. But I was pleasantly surprised when
I saw it at a press viewing in Oslo today. The film is actually really
good. The story stronger than before, and they play nicely on feelings
this time.

There is also plenty of action :) All in all i would give this 8 out of
10. I personally think there is some really good acting in this one. We
have Philip Seymour Hoffman as the bad guy, perfect role for him.
Others worth mentioning is Jonathan Rhys Meyers. I recently saw an
other movie with him - Match Point - and I must say like this actor. 

Tom Cruise is very mainstream as always. But I think this has got be
one of his better roles the last years. I did not think he preformed
well in for example War of the Worlds. But in this one here he does a
much better job :) 

So run to the cinemas and see it :)
<|_=00=_|>
Not bad at all. After the John Woo craptastic crapfest that was MI2,
Lost creator JJ Abrams takes over and makes a flick that is at least as
good as the first one, possibly better in some respects. Some real
surprises early in the flick start things off fast, and it keeps up the
pace pretty well from there on. Sure, it's mostly same-old same-old,
but it was fun and action-packed. Phillip Seymour Hoffman was fine as a
villain, but was really not even in the movie that much. Tom Cruise was
just Tom Cruise as usual, but for two hours I was able to forget about
all his offscreen stupidity. You know what this really felt like? 24:
The Movie. ...which they are apparently going to make. It should end up
being much like MI3, and I think that'd be just fine.
