
I was not at the special screening in Orange County but got to see this
movie under special circumstances. To me, this movie was about five
elements from being great. Having said that, though, I would definitely
recommend other people to see it because the project as a whole is
worth it and it pays off in the end. James Marsden was excellent.
Giovanni Ribisi was near excellent. Some of the other actors did very
good jobs with their parts. The story itself was also compelling. What
didn't ring true to me were Warren's performance. . .totally miscast
and an average performance, the cameos of Tommy Lee and Val Kilmer were
distracting and unneeded, Brad Renfro was good in any one scene but
from scene to scene his character was not consistent. . .one scene he
seemed normal and the next he seemed like Rain Man, the dialogue had a
few too many clich√©s, and the movie did not completely capture the
period of the early 1990's or, in flashbacks, the mid-80's. Had all of
these things been just a little better a 9 out of 10 would have been
easily attained. Still I plan to recommend it to other people because
this movie will emotionally move you.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Moresco ('Crash') is proving to be a fine storyteller with a
definite style of his own. 10TH & WOLF, written by both Moresco and
Allan Steele and directed by Moresco appears on the shelves of DVDs as
one of those films that makes us wonder why it didn't do well on the
theater screens: it is well written, beautifully directed, has a cast
that is consistently fine, and unravels a family involved in organized
crime theme as well as any movie out there.

Moresco very wisely starts his story in the burning oil fields of
Kuwait during Desert Storm where Marine sargeant Tommy (James Marsden,
doing his finest work since his brilliant portrayal in THE 24TH HOUR)
drives his Hummer through the desert, coming to grips with the
absurdity of war, a key turn in his personality causing him to be
dishonorably discharged for his refusal to take part in that ridiculous
war game. He is given a deal: FBI agents Horvath (Brian Dennehy) and
Thornton (Leo Rossi) visit his cell stateside and offer him clemency if
he helps them capture a big drug dealer Reggio (Francesco Salvi) in
Tommy's hometown of Philadelphia. Tommy had escaped the organized crime
scene by joining the Marines, but is suddenly returned to his family
occupation as an undercover agent with a wire. Tommy's brother Vincent
(Brad Renfro) and his cousin Joey (Giovanni Ribisi) welcome his return
and begin plotting ways to off Reggio. Beatings and murders begin to
occur: Joey is a bit on the mad side and plunges his boys into messes
that become like quicksand. How the family bonds over losses to big
crime and vendettas, and how that lifestyle affects parents (Lesley Ann
Warren) and victims turned girlfriends (Piper Perabo) leaving the drive
to survive as the paramount goal is the run of the plot.

There are plenty of cameos (Dennis Hopper, Val Kilmer, Dash Mihok etc)
to round out the dark atmosphere, but the strength of the film lies
strongly on the shoulders of Marsden, Ribisi and Renfro and they handle
their roles exceptionally well. This is yet another big crime story but
one that grips the audience's attention and holds it to the final
twisted end. Strong violence and language, but a testy and tightly
woven story with many unspoken metaphors. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
It had a legitimate cast, though I was a little disappointed in the
screen time of some of the actors and you can figure out which ones I'm
referring to if you have also watched the film. It seemed to take some
time in getting around to the heart of the story, particularly at the
beginning. And there may have been some parts that did not need to be
included, but it was still more than watchable, notably in large part
to Giovanni Ribisi. He is more believable in this role than most people
including myself would give him credit for. It is Ribisi, in fact, who
is the star of this film, not Madsen. Madsen just has the "central
character" role. Yet Madsen I felt did not screw up his part. He just
wasn't interesting. His character screamed one-dimensional and static
just like most "good guy" roles do. He wasn't even a good guy. There
weren't any good guys here. Not him, not La Cosa Nostra, not the
Sicilian and his Mafia, and certainly not the FBI agents. The Feds
were, after the Sicilian Riggio naturally, the worst lying backstabbing
scum of the show. And you know what? I didn't mind the fact that they
were all evil. Because 90 percent of the human race is and the other 10
percent don't care enough to do anything about that fact. Now that's
realism on the silver screen. The ending left me feeling satisfied and
even a little sad which is not a bad thing. It must mean I actually
cared about the characters. And yes, I'm buying this one. My only gripe
is that it didn't get some large financial backing behind it and go
wide release. But from Lion's Gate, that isn't too surprising. They
lacked the bankroll to make "10th & Wolf" into a "Godfather" and that
is a true pity. That being said, it is a decent picture.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this film last night at a standing room only sneak previews in
Orange County, CA. The audience was spell-bound throughout the entire
screening - you could hear a pin drop. Stellar career-making
performances by James Mardsen, Giovannia Ribisi and Brad Renfro. Brian
Dennehy was exceptional and Lesley Ann Warren showed a depth of talent
I've not seen before. Bobby Moresco has eloquently and thoughtfully
crafted a film that speaks to the heart and will be sure to gather well
deserved attention when the film is released. Production values are top
notch all the way around. There is violence in the film, but it's never
gratuitous - these people live in a brutal world. For me, the film
ended on a note of hope for new beginnings.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film a couple weeks ago at the Pittsburgh premiere. I had
been waiting to see this movie ever since Sept. 04 when I was cast as
an extra for the strip club scene. Luckily, I made the final cut of the
film for a couple seconds. Anyway, the film itself is a unique mob tale
that utilizes the acting talents of James Marsden, Giovanni Ribisi, and
Brad Renfro. I was pleased with James Marsden's performance because it
showcased his ability to carry a leading role in a movie instead of
playing supporting characters like Cyclops in the X-Men movies or Lois
Lane's husband in Superman Returns. Giovanni Ribisi's performance was
commendable as well. Even though this was a decent mafia movie, it
doesn't hold a candle to The Godfather Parts 1 & 2 or Goodfellas. There
were a few problems with the film such as the unnecessary cameos of Val
Kilmer and Tommy Lee. Also, I felt Lesley Ann Warren's performance as
Aunt Tina was a little annoying and over-the-top. Lastly, my biggest
complaint was that the story is supposed to occur in Philly, but in the
background of one scene you can see a Budweiser billboard with the
Pittsburgh Steelers logo on it, which is the absolute last thing you
would ever find in Philadelphia. Despite these minor problems, the film
is a well-made piece of cinema that shows the great acting abilities of
the up-in-coming stars of Hollywood. The story is compelling as it
weaves the loyalty of family and friendship with the seductiveness and
deception of the crime world. This movie is definitely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised at how much I liked this film, being that I had never
heard of it. The story focuses on Tommy (James Marsden), who has just
come home from the army, but he's now undercover (working for Brian
Dennehey), to bring down the gangsters he grew up. He comes home to see
his brother Vincent (Brad Renfro) and his cousin Joey (Giovanni
Ribisi), and the story goes from there. I won't go into any more detail
at the sake of not ruining the film, but it's very good. If you enjoy a
good gangster film, then this is the one for you. I am giving it an 8
out of 10. Also notice certain celeb cameos, such as Val Kilmer, Tommy
Lee, an d Dennis Hopper.
<|_=00=_|>
While living in Pittsburgh when 10th and Wolf was being filmed, I
eagerly awaited its release, but never heard anything about it. After
recently renting it, I loved the film. I feel that it's equivocal to a
modern day Goodfellas; so why haven't I heard anything about this
movie? Why haven't more people seen it, I wonder? The acting is
top-notch, with great cinematography as well. I think this has been
James Marsden's best work to date, and his character is very well
developed throughout the plot. It just seems like a shame that there
are 40 copies of Failure to Launch, but only two copies of Tenth and
Wolf at my local Blockbuster.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fancy production with all the right bells and whistles
however it gives an impression of only being an assembly of second
takes from past gangster flicks. There is nothing original or
spellbinding in the film and unfortunately the acting comes across as
only being phony. It rings of a small-town group trying to outdo the
pros by imitating them. Like Dennis Hopper the movie is just not
believable. I must say I do believe the storyline is credible along
with all of the film's technical aspects though I find it hard to
believe more of an effort wasn't made to appear unique and intriguing
in overall presentation.
<|_=00=_|>
10th & Wolf is the kind of film that I always liked, in fact year back
I may have given this a much higher rating.

This is a drama about loyalty,friendships, honour, family. What is
different here is that all the characters are not very nice people, in
fact some are downright vicious. This being said,the all were at least
interesting,. The script by Howard Moresco & Alan Steele is well
written & told, Howard Moresco also directed it.

The cast is large comprised of newer actors & older veteran performers.
James Marsden, Giovanni Ribisi & Brad Renfro have the leads, they are
first rate especially Ribisi. Piper Perabo is the main actress in this
film, & soon will have starring roles,Leslie Ann Warren, Brian
Dennahy,Dennis Hopper all have good scenes, Val Kilmer has a small
cameo, (I did not recognize him .

For some reason, the story location is Philadelphia BUT was made in
Pittsburgh.

There is lots of violence & many people die. What would you expect from
a gangster movie.. As I said this is a guilty pleasure film.

Ratings: *** (out of 4) 86 points (out of 100)IMDB 8 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
10th and wolf is simply the most action-packed, fast-paced mafia movie
that i have ever seen. To me it was like watching the departed meets
reservoir dogs. The elements that this movie brought to the mafia genre
were pretty original - as far as i can tell.

A mafia movie mixed with elements that are pertinent to Americans today
- War in the middle east, family, betrayal, and not to mention
incessant philandering, and the constant need for respect - I also
loved the elements of the 3 brothers - American born, breed, and raised
- trying to get their piece of the pie - when all the while - they are
clearly the underdogs.

Maybe i loved this movie because i'm an action junkie, and the gangster
ass scenes just don't stop coming, the movie moves along like an
avalanche.

But it may have just been the camaraderie between the 3 brothers who
were ingenious in their acting roles, the fact that I never had a
brother may have something to do with that.

this movie is worth giving a chance.. don't believe those elitist
critic pricks.. or the people bitchen that it doesn't look like the
real 10th and wolf.. who cares.. if u wanna see your old neighborhood
go back and take pictures.. the movie could take place in any city in
the country and still be great
