
Remember how everyone was talking about Toy Story when it first came
out? The incredible visuals, unique style, vividly imagined world? The
next time people were talking that way with such enthusiasm about a
computer animated movie was Finding Nemo. I'm excited to say that
Ratatouille will be the next one to redefine the visual creativity and
technical detail of computer animated movies. Honest to goodness, I was
awestruck by the animation, and that never happens to me. It is a
visual masterpiece of a movie if ever the term applies.

The next thing to talk about is the "genre" of the movie. As Pixar
enthusiasts will tell you, Brad Bird, the director of Ratatouille, also
directed The Incredibles, which has the most inspired and creative
action sequences from any of the Pixar movies. Ratatouille, while not
so straightforward with its action, has almost as much as The
Incredibles did, in unique ways. Most memorable is the shotgun scene
near the beginning. (You'll know what I'm talking about when you see
it). Other than that, this is the expected comedy-with-heart movie from
Pixar that so many have grown to love.

The voice acting? Spot on. Every voice is distinctive, and it never
feels like a celebrity's voice tacked on to a character (Shrek, I'm
looking at you), it feels like the characters themselves speaking. You
can't ask for more from voice acting.

And finally, the script and the story. The entire irony of the story --
a street rat with a passion for fine food -- is beautiful, and a tight,
smart, wonderful script flows from this. The pacing of the story is odd
and choppy at places, but this is a very forgivable grievance. The only
other minor fault is that a few of the dramatic one-liners feel a bit
forced. Other than that, this is the most layered, complex, and
satisfying script from Pixar since The Incredibles.

Overall, I recommend that everyone see this movie when it hits theaters
(I was lucky enough to see a pre-release screening). Though not
perfect, it is an animated masterpiece in true Pixar form with
breathtaking animation and visual design.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Tonight I went to see Ratatouille during a preview offered to Myspace
users in Boston. Overall the movie was GREAT! It was really funny,
often in unexpected places, the storyline kept you engaged the entire
time and the overall mood was lighthearted and inspiring. A real
"feel-good" movie. I admit I was a bit skeptical going in, I mean the
idea of a rat in a kitchen kind of left me queasy, but I left the
theater excited to see it again when it is released. The voice actors
are excellent and the animation is amazing. I've been to Paris before
and the overall views were very accurate. At times I could tell exactly
where in the city the events were taking place. Overall a fabulous
movie, I highly recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>
The combination of Disney and Pixar never ceases to amaze, but with
Ratatouille, their newest effort, animated features are brought to new
heights with the best one to date. Ratatouille is stunning, surreal
while at the same time realistic, and a joy to watch. The writing is,
in one word, just amazing, and the voice acting is sensational. The
characters are poetic and real, and the rats are some of Disney/Pixar's
cutest creations. Ratatouille is written and directed by Brad Bird (The
Incredibles), and features stellar voice acting from Peter O'Toole,
Patton Oswalt, Ian Holm, Brian Dennehy, Lou Romano, Brad Garrett, and
Janeane Garofalo.

Remy (voiced by Patton Oswalt) is a little rat who dreams of becoming a
chef just like his idol, the human Gusteau (voiced by Brad Garrett).
After a mishap, Remy loses his family in the sewers and comes upon a
fading restaurant that had previously been owned by Gusteau before his
untimely death. He comes upon a lowly garbage boy, Linguini (voiced by
Lou Romano), and together they set out to revive the once-legendary
restaurant.

Ratatouille is filled with loads of surprises and lots of twists and
turns. The animation is even more stunning here than in some of the
other Disney/Pixar productions, and the breathtaking landscape of
Paris, France, really adds a layer of realism to the film. The food
looks so real and delicious, and the humans and rats look incredibly
realistic. Remy and Linguini are both lovable characters, and the
audience is rooting for them the entire way. Surprisingly enough, this
movie is the funniest of the Disney/Pixar films, with very subtle and
unique humor.

As previously stated, the voice acting really makes the film different,
and each actor is perfectly suited to his or her role. The best among
the bunch happens to be Lou Romano, as he deals with his character
extremely well and is incredibly believable. There are times when the
acting and animation is so excellent that you forget you are watching
an animated film altogether. Brad Garrett is actually tolerable for
once, and is excellent in his role as Gusteau, who acts as Remy's
conscience for the majority of the film. Some of the funniest scenes in
the movie are rooted from Gusteau's chats with Remy and many others
come from the relationship between Linguini and Remy. On another note,
Patton Oswalt does a magnificent job voicing Remy, and Peter O' Toole
is very memorable as Anton Ego, the food critic for 'The Grim Eater'.

Overall, you can't ask for a better film than Ratatouille, a new
classic from Disney/Pixar that is filled with humor, amazing animation,
and, most importantly, lots of heart. Some of the scenes are so poetic
and perfect that they just bring tears to your eyes. It may be hard to
believe, but Ratatouille is far better than any other animated films
you will see this year, or perhaps that you will ever see. It manages
to be better than Toy Story, better than Finding Nemo, even better than
the fantastic Meet the Robinsons. I saw a pre-screening of the film on
Saturday, June 16, but I cannot wait to see it again once it hits
theaters everywhere on June 29. See RatatouilleÂ—it is highly original,
heartwarming, uplifting, and a very thrilling movie that has to be the
best animated feature of the last few decades.
<|_=00=_|>
I checked out a sneak preview of Ratatouille last night, and I must say
I truly loved this movie. Everything from the animation to the score to
the voice acting to the story (and especially the story) was EXCELLENT.

I don't know if it appeals to kids as much as other Pixar offerings,
but this one upholds their legacy of excellence.

Casting Patton Oswalt as Remy was PERFECT. The rest of the voice cast
was outstanding as well...including Pixar "house voice" John
Ratzenberger. See if you can tell which guy he is without foreknowledge
(as in, don't read the cast list).

Michael Giacchino's score was as perfect for this story as the
award-winning one he created for "The Incredibles" and the incredible
music he has created for most of J.J. Abrams' recent projects,
including "Alias" and "Lost". 

Even with my 3-year-old son making it really hard to concentrate, and
our "we got to the theater late and had to sit up front" seats, this
movie was fantastic. Everyone should go see it, even if they don't have
kids.

Brad Bird - you done right by us movie fans again...Ratatouille is
great!
<|_=00=_|>
I caught a sneak peak yesterday, and must say, this film is a classic.
It is not as flashy as cars, or as action packed as Incredibles, but it
is a masterpiece of restraint and heart, that matches the classics from
the golden age of the film industry. Pixar has always been
groundbreaking for smart and fun animated features, but Ratatouille
might just be what puts them over the top as one of the BEST all around
film-making teams in history.

Ratatouille is a treat for film lovers. It feels like a classic. The
animationis absolutely beautiful, especially the scenery of Paris which
evoked awes from the audience, as if we were seeing a grandiose
fireworks show.

The story is oh so classy and universal, especially when you look at it
as a parable to yourself and society. Sometimes the story seems
familiar, yet it is packed with so much genuine heart and
individuality, that it might even be too "indie" for most audiences.
But those who are patient and willing to open their minds and hearts,
even when it may challenge the viewers to rethink their own personal
biases, will find within this entertaining, sweet, simple film a
remarkable message about challenging societal norms and not letting
anything stand in your way of your dreams. When you follow your dreams,
you never know what an impact it will have upon you, or those you might
encounter on the journey. Just see the film, and be open to its
message, and I am sure if you allow it too, it will touch you as well.

P.S. : The short in front of the feature is the funniest animated short
film pixar has ever done, so even if ratatouille might not be as flashy
as many might want it to be, the short film will have everyone in
stitches, as it did our entire theater. So just go and see it, and be
prepared for a wonderful two hours.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic ! ... Can't wait to get the DVD ! The technical / animation /
lighting ..etc aspects of the film are awesome. Pixar has raised the
bar again.

The best thing about the movie, is that it showcases Pixar's "mantra" ,
that being story, story ...story. That along with having great
characters/animation/dialog, which you just forget ... or never even
consider are digital puppets.

The humor was great too, the gags / situations character acting all
contributing to making situations that "kids of all ages " could "get".

There is on one level the entire story, of Remy and Linguini, but then
there are 3 or 4 or more subplots and a number of dramatic scene
changes which almost felt like separate chapters of the main story.
That all contributed ..for me at least... to keeping the movie very
interesting right to the end.

While I found a few things predictable, there were also quite a few
twists and and unexpected events / scenes, that just kept giving me
more new "stuff" to enjoy 10 / 10 Mike
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in the sneak preview, and I just loved it! You will be
amazed by its creativity and brilliance. I would easily vote it to be
the best animation movie ever beating nemo, cars, monster inc, etc by a
mile! This movie is for people of all age groups. Kids, adults and even
those who do not like animations will love it.

I do not want to say anything else here and spoil it for you. All I can
say is if you do not watch it, you will be missing out on a very very
very special movie.

I have never written a review on here before, but this movie made me
write one. Ratatouille is pure brilliance!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is fantastic! Pixar has yet another great film to add to
their impressive repertoire. Oscar-winning director and screenwriter
Brad Bird, who wrote and directed "The Incredibles", has produced a
film with subtle humor, heart, and very profound truth. The voice
actors are so great, and it is especially great to hear Peter O'Toole
on the screen. The animation is beautiful and it is all around an
excellently made film. Its message is one that holds so much truth for
everyone, especially today's youth: it tells people that no, not anyone
can do anything, but if you have the talent you don't have to be
limited by your surroundings or your upbringing. I think this is
refreshing to hear because often, children are lied to when they are
told they can do anything, when actually not all of them can. But it
offers hope to the ones who may feel limited by their social class. It
also exposes the fact that most people try to put up false facades of
themselves to hide who they are in order to feel accepted by the social
standards we create in our society; it shows characters with this flaw,
but ultimately they accept this reality and learn to be true to
themselves. This thread, I think, is very common throughout the Pixar
films, and they present it very well. "Ratatouille" is my new
Disney-Pixar favorite! "Ce film a pleine de joie de vivre!"
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw "Ratatouille" tonight.

It's a first class movie. Several thoughts come to mind...

-The character performances are so good, I think there's no sort of
movie they couldn't make. I've heard Pixar's John Carter of Mars is
going to be live action? No! I want them to do it all animated.

-"Cars" definitely _was_ a lower-value softball they threw to finish
out that original Disney-gets-half-of-everything-plus-sequel-rights
contract they were in at the time. I remember all the clucking last
summer about how Pixar had lost its way.

-There were a few moments when they seemed to lose that stylized
reality they had established and things looked merely "real".

-There was one scene in the latter part of the film where I thought "I
can't believe they are doing this tired movie clichÃ©" but they pulled
out of it at the last second and made it something new.

-The 2D-ish end credits were great. Stick it out to the very end to see
the mo-cap disclaimer!

-With this, Brad Bird is certainly one of the animation gods now.
<|_=00=_|>
Ratatouille is a major step up from a lot of last year's animated fare,
and a vast improvement from last year's Oscar winner for best animated
feature. Here we re-discover sweet simplicity amped up with the
expected story-telling techniques of Pixar, and here's the kicker, no
heavy handed messages hammered in with a drill, but there certainly is
a message and it's delivered with subtler grace despite some flaws.
Although, aspects to the message are borderline confusing if you over
analyze the reality that occurs in the film, but the film doesn't
scream for over-analyzation in the same fashion as "Finding Nemo". For
me, the animation slightly overpowers the story, and that's not
necessarily a bad thing. The film is directed, camera-wise, with the
same interesting techniques as "Happy Feet", but the film has more in
store. We get to see the world mainly from Remmy's perspective, and
it's visually exciting. The camera-work is what makes the film's
physical humor work so well. More on the artistic scheme, the film
looks really great. Particularly the lighting stands out. The colors
are very lush and detailed; very accurate toward a real city-scape.
Then the rat's fur are very impressive, it moves against the wind and
gets wet very much like real rat hair. Don't let the detail in the
clothes get past you either. The film manages to find a balance between
superficial realism and animated characters. The character designs for
the humans are marvelous (Bird seems to get much humor out of the
smaller villains as seen in the past "Incredibles" and the non-Pixar
film "Shrek") and the rats, while moving a lot like real rats still
have acceptable personalities and animated form. So we feel like we're
entering an animated world that is fleshy and real. Speaking of such,
other animated marvels are the organic forms of the food. As real as
the food in the film is, the film rightfully capture the spirit of the
plot it pursues. It introduces the viewer into the world of
fine-dinning and develops something rare in today's animation, a
bleeding heart.

Story-wise, that's the only area where I can detect any trace of
criticism. I felt at times, dare I say it, that the emotion was a
little bit forced. There were just certain times I didn't understand a
certain character's frustration. Also, I felt uneasy about the films
unusual balance of fantasy and realistic themes, such as how the
reactions to rats were carried our toward the end of the film and how
it blends into the films major theme and other suspend disbelief
occurrences. That lack of coherent continuity gives a writer a lot more
flexibility in how to tell the story. In other words, it's kind of a
shortcut. But it's an observation that is made up for by other
successes in the film. The film very impressively for an animated film
delivers some conventional themes with a little more depth (to truly
enjoy it, I'd recommend erasing the fact that rats often carry disease
from your mind). It's cute without embarrassingly forcing it and
unpretentious. The very fact that what makes it work may fly over the
heads of small children isn't a reason to condemn it. It's true though
that I feel that younger kids may get a little restless halfway though,
and not just through my own experience at the theater. however, this is
another great film for an older audience to enjoy a simple well told
story. As for whether it will have that lasting effect that Pixar films
usually carry, only time will tell.
