
"Here in America, there is no difference between a man and his economic
fate. A man is made by his assets, income, position and prospects. His
economic mask coincides completely with his inner character. He learns
what he is through the vicissitudes of his economic existence within
capitalism, and knows nothing else." - Theodor Adorno 

"Every dollar has a certain nervousness attached to it." - Ferrara 

A loose remake of "The Killing of a Chinese Bookie", Abel Ferrara's "Go
Go Tales" is one of the directors best, late-career works. The film was
panned by Western critics and would receive virtually no theatrical
distribution, but was voted into several top-ten lists by the Cahiers
du Cinema crew.

The plot? Willem Dafoe plays Ray Ruby, the overseer of the Paradise
Lounge, an up-market strip club which is slowly going broke. Profits
are meagre, business is slow and Ruby's girls are all desperate for
cash. To make matters worse, Ruby's brother (Mathew Modine), the
supplier of Ruby's finances, is threatening to pull the plug on the
club. Things look bad for the Paradise.

In an effort to bring in revenue, Ray embarks on a series of elaborate
schemes ("Frisbees with my face on them! What was I thinking?"). He
ferries in Japanese businessmen, serves gourmet hot-dogs, renovates
lounges and hosts Talent Show Nights, though to no avail. His business
is going under. In a last ditch effort to save the Paradise, Ruby thus
concocts a brilliant scheme. He'll rig the lottery and win 18 million!
The plan works, but Ray can't find the winning ticket. Poor guy.

Like most of Ferrara's later works, "Go Go Tales" is obsessed with
money. Capitalism as gaudy flesh-market, Ferrara has every conversation
in the film hinge on economics. And unlike most stripper movies, which
centre on female exploitation, Ferrara broadens things. Every
character, be they feisty landlord (a brilliant Sylvia Miles), upper
management, financier, worker or dancer, spews an incessant stream of
dialogue relating to payments, profits and back-pay. They're all
struggling to make ends meet. In fits of desperation, they're also all
forced to diversify in various different ways. And so strippers fight
to sell movie scripts (the title of which is a symbolic allusion to
"Gun for Jennifer"), wives dance to bring in cash (despite being
married to doctors!), landladies sell real-estate to cover their
losses, and millionaires likewise. In the middle of this hurricane is
Rudy, part huckster, part caring patriarch, part loser, part shrewd
capitalist, part charismatic impresario, part mean overlord. Stuck in a
world in transition, he yearns for a simpler, sleazier time (he
fantasises about "clean" ballet dancers, rather than strippers) in
which people weren't part something but seemingly whole instead; a time
before quaint sleaziness was hijacked by corporate sleaze. Meanwhile,
the silly crab mascots of a rival business across the street steal
Ruby's clients. Is nothing sacred?! 

"Go Go Tales" is full of melancholy, but it's a melancholy which
Ferrara knows well. He began his career making pornographic and/or
exploitation flicks, and even a film which chronicled the early, Times
Square strip club culture in its pre-Giuliani heydays. Times change,
though, and Ruby finds himself, not only struggling to stay afloat, but
forced  just like Ferrara, who begs Europe for funding - to both cheat
the system and play by madcap rules in order to survive. The film ends
with Ruby finding his ticket, collecting his jackpot and then grimacing
when he learns that over half his winnings will be lost to taxes.

Expertly, "Go Go Tales" captures the agony and banality of human
relations under capitalist regimes. Here, everyone seems indebted at
birth, innovation and/or improvisation is never enough, counterfeit
bills circulate to keep the system's illusions afloat, the cage's walls
are riddled with hopeful but mostly defunct lottery tickets, the profit
motive invades all human relations, money rules without obstruction and
people operate at break-neck speeds, bodies go-going after money which
itself seems to constantly flutter away.

In Ruby's world, everyone thinks in terms of and exists only for cash.
But whilst every character circulates in order to bring alive the
system's real and fake bills, Ray provides a different function. He's
the magician who provides the illusion of plenitude, of Paradise, the
illusion that money, real and virtual, can usefully circulate.

Incidentally, Cassavetes' "Chinese Bookie" dealt with a guy attempting
to create a viable Utopia within the world of Mafia business. There the
lead character sets up The Crazy Horse West, a club where human
relations can hopefully become beautiful, familial and exist outside of
Mafia logic. Ruby's Paradise was built to fulfil a similar function.
The Paradise embodies the possibility that one can still create
something wholesome within capitalism, both clubs designed to house
experimental troupes which allow us to conceptualise different
relations, communities, modes of interaction, performances and shared
history. The experiment fails, of course. Despite his attempts to be a
"good daddy", to host clean Talent Shows, to put on tasteful vaudeville
routines, the Paradise is destined to be tainted by the sheer physics
of money. The wife who dances for her husband, he her customer with
both not even realising it, epitomizes this "corrupting" of human
relations. Prostitution has become the norm, and the singular,
spectacular event (the lights, the stage etc) has been replaced by
something else entirely (literally a cosmetics boutique, an apt summary
of Manhattan's transformation).

Relaxed, gentle and unforced, the film's style is pure Altman, with a
strong vein of Assayas. As is typical of Ferrara, the film is sexy, but
interested more in the cash affixed to G-strings than naked flesh
itself. Bob Hoskins co-stars as an irate henchman.

8.5/10 - Worth two viewings.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is a movie that Ferrara calls his "first intentional comedy." Its
protagonist, Ray Ruby (Willem Dafoe), runs a joint where girls with
other ambitions strip and dance around on a stage and lap-dance for a
sparse crowd of men. He has a couple manager-bouncers, including Bob
Hoskins. The shrill, dirty-mouthed landlady (Sylvia Miles) comes and
sits at the bar blaspheming and demanding four months back rent and
threatening to bring the marshals. The girls are constantly demanding
to be paid. One of them is Asia Argento. Another one comes and declares
that she's pregnant and Ray tries to talk her into continuing to
perform. There's an Irish bookkeeper who has a file showing where all
Ray's lotto tickets are stashed. He and Ray watch the drawing for an
$18 million prize and they've got the winneronly they can't locate it.
Then Ray's brother Johnny (Matthew Modine), a highly successful
hairdresser, who bankrolls the joint, appears and announces he's going
to pull the plug. Some young doctors come in who saved one of the guys
with the Heimlich Maneuver, and they enjoy the girlstill one of them
discovers his wife on the stage dirty dancing, and there's quite a
fracas.

That's about it, really. This sounds like a stage play. It nearly all
takes place indoors either in the club or Ray's office. However, it's
not a play because it was shot at Cinecitta in Rome, where they built
the set. a club with its own lighting that, as Abel Ferrara tells it,
never had to close. And the shooting, which in part is a homage to
Cassavetes' Killing of a Chinese Bookie, was done with a couple of DV
cameraswith their capacity to go on and on and on shooting a sceneas
well as some surveillance cameras to add in the occasional Super 8
effectand with a very clear-cut screenplay but a great deal of leeway
for improvisation. The cameramen were not at all neglectful of the
nearly naked girls, whose work is constantly in evidence whenever the
cameras are rolling in the club. All of which is unlike any play you're
likely to see. The movement, the level of improvisation, the complexity
of the set, are movie stuff. And the cast too is a movie cast, even if
these actors all have good stage experience, notably Dafoe, who was
present every day of the shoot and managed that as his character
manages the club.

These are chaotic and grim and desperate circumstances, but they're
handled with a sense of the absurd throughout: hence the "intentional
comedy." Modine comes in with a pod of swept-forward, bleached hair and
carrying a little dog. There's also a cabaret sequence when some of the
girls perform their "art": one plays classical on an electric piano, a
guy does a totally garbled recitation of Antony's funeral oration from
Julius Caesar; another does a peculiar "magic" show; and so on. And
Sylvia Miles' over-the-top shrillness sets a tone of ridiculous excess.
Some of Dafoe's improvisations have an amusing sense of grasping
desperation about themespecially when he confronts the suddenly
pregnant dancer and even when he defends his club as if it were as
important as life itself. Melodrama is replaced by intentional bathos.

Still, as was plain at the New York Film Festival press screening when
Ferrara, Dafoe, Miles, and several others talked to FSLC director
Richard Pena and answered questions from the audience, this is a movie
that's probably more fun to talk about than to watch. Not in a New York
Film Festival since King of New York, which started a great row at the
time, Ferrara is a character whose biography is best read in his films
and his explanations together. For Go Go Tales, his parents are John
Cassavetes and Robert Altman, but there's something uniquely
disreputable and hilarious about his version of their styles.
<|_=00=_|>
Good old Abel Ferrara, his films are never the easiest to watch and no
easier to review. Always worth watching, however, and this little
number had completely passed me by before I picked up an Italian DVD,
with an English audio track fortunately. A failing strip/lap dance
joint a lost lottery ticket and owners threatening to foreclose. Sounds
a little uninspiring but the Ferrara is not interested in some glossy,
happy go lucky enterprise and what we get here is a very well shot,
edited and filmed impression of more behind the scenes than anything
else. Most of the guys are aged, bossy and freeloading as the ship goes
down while all the nubile ladies give it their all, because that's what
they do. Asia Argento is very impressive, as is the ever dependable
William Dafoe in the lead. Roy Dotrice was a nice surprise and even Bob
Hoskins is fine. Sylvia Miles, who I haven't seen since Paul
Morrissey's Heat, is a little over the top but just about does the job.
More than a little echo here of Cassavetes' Killing of a Chinese
Bookie, but nothing wrong with that.
<|_=00=_|>
I was excited to see this brilliant ensemble cast do their magic in Go
Go Tales, but I found myself unexpectedly being served a gourmet
hot-dog from actors who are capable of playing much more challenging
characters. What makes a gourmet hot-dog anyways? Is it made from the
lips and a**holes of kobe beef? Is there fois gras blended in with the
questionable parts of top-shelf carcasses? I don't think it is an
accident that right in the middle of Go Go Tales there is a scene with
gourmet hot dogs being cooked the gourmet way - in microwave ovens,
while the beautiful go-go dancers cook themselves in a faulty tanning
bed.

This isn't to say that Go Go Tales was badly acted - it was very well
acted for what it is - a meandering vignette of a failing second rate
strip joint; a metaphor for how even the most exotic dreams and
aspirations are subject to blandness like anything else. It plays out
like a cabaret stage production, a bit of aimless vaudeville salted
with an undercurrent of subtle existential humming: A page out of
Cassavetes' Killing of a Chinese Bookie. Like 'Chinese Bookie', this
film offered more pleasure for me in the thinking about it afterward
than it was to watch.

I can't say that I didn't like it, and I can't say that I want to watch
it again. But for a gourmet hot-dog, it wasn't terrible; it was mostly
just a regular hot-dog made with some Hoskins, Dafoe and a dash of
Modine, thrown in a microwave and served in the bawdy atmosphere of a
musky strip club.
<|_=00=_|>
I am losing my faith in director Abel Ferrara.He made a lot of
excellent movies (for example:Bad Lieutenant or Ms.45) with very little
resources.But,he's not having luck with his most recent works.New Rose
Hotel and R Xmas were let downs on his career but ,in spite of being
failed experiments, they were interesting. But,more recently,Mary
and,now,Go Go Tales resulted to be two craps.Go Go Tales is the lowest
point in Ferrara's career.The story is uninteresting and boring.Willem
Dafoe and Bob Hoskins are two excellent actors but they do what they
can with the poor screenplay.I am very disappointed with this movie and
I can't believe that a talented director like Ferrara was behind this
mess.By my point of view,Go Go Tales is a crappy film and a waste of
time.I honestly hope Ferrara will back to his best on his next film to
make us forget of this pathetic movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Shot in November 2006, Abel Ferrara's Go Go tales isn't the comedy he
was selling us, that honour goes to Driller Killer with his artist in
turmoil overacting. 

This film is nowhere near the screwball comedy a Director with 30 years
experience under his belt would spit out. Did Ferrara think the
punchline joke that ends the film was worth sitting through 1 hr and 40
mins? No. His lacking script or should I say the editing room helped
dig this film further into distribution hell, as of 2009 the film has
hardly been seen, DVD's cannot be easily sought, no screenings anywhere
unless you download the film for free. I for one would buy the DVD, not
for the film, but to listen to Ferrara's hilarious commentary which is
always good for a laugh! 

Poor Italian investors, unlucky crew and especially embarrassment for
the cast.

Many actors are wasted with nothing to do, as I blame the editing which
Ferrara loves to shoot everything on set and then try to stitch it all
up coherently later, which he did brilliantly with SNAKE EYES
(Dangerous game) and partly successfully in NEW ROSE HOTEL and failed
miserably in THE BLACKOUT.

Hamming it up seems to be another problem with Go go tales. Sylvia
Miles maybe an icon from the 60's Warhol set but her acting hasn't
IMPROVed either. Asia Argento may be pretty but she is as bad as Sylvia
Miles with the improv and she wasn't even born when Warhol put down his
Bolex and switched to Polaroid. Credit to Matthew Modine for making a
third appearance in a Ferrara film, an actor whose career has drifted
off slightly since starring in his first Ferrara film THE BLACKOUT in
1997. Special mention to Willem Dafoe who actually pulled what he had
out of the bag to give us that smirk in the final shot of the film.

Years of pre-production hell. Distribution legal troubles and an ever
changing cast made this film a trouble project for Ferrara. Then again
he was the writer and director of this tale and unfortunately not one
for recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
If you speak French, you'll find looking for inconsistencies in the
subtitles more entertaining than what's going on on screen. For any
good film, I take well over a page of notes. For this one, I took less
than half a page. 'Nuff said? Perhaps not. How can a film with Willem
Dafoe as a strip club owner, and with Bob Hoskins, be boring? Well,
this one is. How disappointing. Dafoe does more acting (and we learn
more about his character) in the first scene of To Live and Die in L.A.
than he does in this entire film. Dafoe as Ray Ruby, owner of the
Paradise Club; Hoskins as the Baron (greeter / maître d' / bouncer);
and Matthew Modine as Johnnie Ruby, the Salon King are nothing special
here. On the other hand, Sylvia Miles as landlady Lilian Murray; and
Stefania Rocca as Debby, a dancer who is also a screenwriter, are
decent and believable.

As to the plot, there isn't much of onenothing out of the ordinary
happens here, nothing unexpected. There's no more conflict, no more
actual heartfelt emotion at Ray's Paradise Club than there is at your
own neighbourhood bar or pool hall. When a hundred seconds of plot are
stretched out to a hundred minutes of film, that is NOT 'a good thing.'
Likewise when any five minutes of a film look essentially the same as
any other five minutes.

The sole exception is Selena Khoo as Leila, a dancer who is also an
accomplished pianist. She should've been on screen a half hour more
than she was. Oh well, maybe in the sequel. Oh, whom am I kidding?
There isn't going to be a sequel. God, I hope not.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not remember for a long time seeing such a bad film. The story
itself might not have been very bad for a quirky comedy, however,
nothing in this movie is done anywhere near well. The dialogs are God
awful, not funny and hardly understandable. The girls do not even know
how to move or dance, so there was no visual pleasure either. It was
hectic, very plain, extremely predictable and as I said the whole idea
of doing something for the soul and being one big nice warm family
within the simple strip club, would not have been so bad had it been
done tastefully with humor, the real one, not the one that is based on
curse words alone. In short it was boring, badly developed, not funny
at all, did not make much sense until the very end, where the viewer
sort of understands what was going on, who are those people and how
they related to each other and that sort of things. I know that I have
said here that it was predictable and at the same time did not make
much sense,I fully understand that this is controversial; however that
exactly how it was - partly this partly that - imagine!
<|_=00=_|>
Well no, Mr. Ferrara. I've admired (not necessarily liked) but admired
his "Bad Liutenant" The uncomfortable world of guilt and darkness can
translate into real cinema. Abel Ferrara is a talented filmmaker. So,
what's going on? I'm in Cannes in its 60th anniversary. As a movie nut
of the first order, I just had to find the way to be here, at least for
a couple of days. It was worth it. I saw Sidney Poitier and Martin
Scorsese, Sharon Stone and many more. Go Go Tales was a bad move, not
just for me for Abel Ferrera as well. Not that it's a bad movie,
although it kind of is, but it looks like a quick commercial operation
and when i say quick I mean quick. It looks made in two minutes without
a great deal of thought. It all takes place in one place. Lap dancers,
if you please, and other assorted. desperate attempts to make it
markable and it may have succeeded in some areas. The film couldn't
have cost more than two bucks and that in itself is not condemnable,
what is, is the intention and I felt that the intention was the one
thing that came across. What a pity.
