
A film that should be retitled xXx2: Don't Say We Didn't Warn You.

Opening with an impressive first 7-8 minutes, this film moves into
cookie cutter territory at a frightening speed and continues to derail
any opportunity for the audience to engage in the ridiculous plot or
heavily computer generated action sequences.

Ice Cube will never be thanking the academy (he at times look like he
would struggle to play himself), but the Razzie committee should be on
the lookout for this up and comer, this type of dribble is the
cinematic equivalent of being run over repeatedly by a truck with the
stereo cranked up to 11.

The first xXx was at least assure of itself, popcorn action with the
acknowledgment that it was bang for buck and nothing more. State of The
Union takes itself far too seriously with a plot so absurd you swear it
was written by a focus group of 13 year old boys after a binge at
McDonalds. Action sequences are spaced every ten minutes or so as
bookends to move Cube onto the next dilemma, each new sequence becoming
further and further detached from reality (the final twenty minutes is
utter insanity that makes films like Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle
seem like documentaries). A sequence involving a train should be parody
material, not a serious plot device.

Samuel L Jackson cashes in his paycheck and plods through the movie
looking as though he just read the script and realized what he has got
himself involved in. Scott Speedman's looks too immature to play a
senior NSA agent and is largely in the film so the white folks don't
feel left out. Willem Dafoe typecasts himself as the overacting bad guy
yet again and X-Zibit pops in so he can possible audition for the lead
in the next sequel xXx3: Turkey Season.

Women are treated as fodder to either slap around or grind up against
(sometimes at the same time) all to a soundtrack of nameless rappers
inserted at appropriate moments so that the white kids can know what
its like to be African American.

My only positive comment on this whole debacle are the cars used in the
film, not being a car enthusiast even I had to be quietly impressed by
the rides in this film. Also this film is under the 2 hour mark a sign
of a film that does know when its wearing out its welcome.

Hopefully with the resoundingly negative response xXx2 has currently
received another sequel looks unlikely, as films like this are about as
satisfying as a having your nose broken.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked out after the first 40 mins. It was just too much to take. I
have a very high tolerance for "bad" films(I really dug the first xXx)
and have only walked out three time before (Dungeons and Dragons, Bad
Company, and The Musketeer). This ego driven piece of garbage was just
intolerable. Every time Ice Cube (a man I quite like) mugged for the
camera I cringed. And Willem Dafoe is SHAMELESS. After 40mins of
excruciating dialogue and NO PLOT I had to leave. I'm sure this movie
is about something and there's some cool stunts, I just wasn't about to
waste the rest of my evening in hopes that the film got better. 

So to be fair I can't really give this a review but I can say that life
is short and sometimes we just gotta put our foot down and not take the
crap the studios are feeding us. Because this was clearly a movie made
on autopilot. Boo!
<|_=00=_|>
"xXx2: The Next Level" (Revolution Studios and Columbia Pictures
changed the subtitle from "State of the Union" for international
territories, for obvious reasons) comes from the director of "Die
Another Day," which was terrible; producer Neal H. Moritz, whose last
credited project was the dire (and thankfully now-cancelled) "Point
Pleasant"; is a sequel to the dreadful "xXx"; and comes equipped with
Samuel L. Jackson's stated dislike of making movies with rappers. On
this showing, you can't blame him.

Trading in Vin Diesel (his character is written out by someone saying
that he got killed in Bora Bora) for Ice Cube is no improvement; not
only is he not the most expressive actor, but he's not that convincing
in action (when he's being chased by Scott Speedman you just KNOW that
Speedman would catch him like that (snaps fingers) in real life). In
fairness to Mr. Cube, he's far from the only thing wrong with this;
Simon Kinberg's screenplay seems not only to have been aimed at
emotionally and intellectually stunted 13-year-olds but written by them
as well, with the plot starting idiotically and continuing from there -
the villainous Secretary of Defence played by Willem Dafoe is so
pantomime villainous that when he makes a speech to Jackson you're
surprised he doesn't laugh maniacally.

Suspending disbelief is one thing, but when you have a movie that
expects people to believe that tanks can be handled like motorbikes...
and which works in such daft plot turns as characters having their
deaths faked just so they can be around for the climax (why not just
kill them there?)... and that has a finale which depends on a car and a
Presidential bullet train being able to fit on the same track despite
the car being a compact if speedy sports car... in this case it's just
impossible. Admittedly it doesn't help that said scenes are
incompetently executed thanks to shockingly bad special effects and
shoddy direction; some of the miniatures are glaringly obvious, and I
particularly hope that lead effects house Industrial Light and Magic
didn't do the CGI bullet train shots. And as for the way some of the
shots go from film to what looks like video and back again...

The cast isn't much good either, although it's fun to see Peter Strauss
as the President (in spite or because of his not sounding like he
believes a word of this); Xzibit not only helps parts of this seem like
"Pimp My Ride: The Movie" but he can't act, Dafoe is Special Guest
Villain level, and Jackson phones it in. As for the female characters,
Nona Gaye and Sunny Mabrey are pretty much defined by their cleavage
and by the fact that one's good and the other (the one who looks like a
cross between Nicolette Sheridan and Rachel Bilson) isn't. (The movie
can't even be laddish properly; for some reason the sexiest woman in
the movie (Masuimi Max, who plays Xzibit's girlfriend and who helps out
with the robbery of the artillery-carrying cheese truck) isn't listed
in the credits.) And the tiresome, crowbarred-in rap numbers don't
help, certainly not compared to Marco Beltrami's score. (Ironically, at
one point on hearing the female string quartet Bond our hero complains
about the music; they are not to blame for the aural wrongs.)

"xXx2: Whatever" is so unexciting and so absurd that despite its stabs
at relevance (our hero claims Dafoe is hatching "World War IV"), the
only way to get through it is as a laugher; the sight of Ice Cube in a
suit and tie (with umbrella!) is funnier than his intentional attempt
at comedy later in the same scene. To make it worse, the last scene
leaves the door wide open for a third movie... if it does happen, why
not cast Scarlett Johansson or Charlotte Church as the new Triple X?
It's not like realism is a key factor here.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no idea what State of the Union was going to be about when I went
to see it last weekend. Once inside the movie theater I was told that
it is a sequel to the movie XXX. Stunned that I was about to see a Vin
Diesel (have nothing personal against him but I found that odds are
high that if he is in a movie I won't like it, especially after the
dreaded "Man Apart") movie I almost got up to leave. I was reassured,
however, that he was not in it. Sitting through the first few minutes I
saw names that I liked--Ice Cube and Samuel L. Jackson--and decided to
give this one a shot. I didn't see the first XXX. I wish I hadn't seen
the sequel. But I did. At the end I was wishing that Vin Diesel would
come and save the day by shooting the characters of Willem Dafoe,
Samuel L. Jackson, Ice Cube, the College Boy and the entire biker crew.
To say this movie doesn't have a plot would be insulting movies which
don't have a plot but at least attempt to have one. A tyrannical
Secretary of Defense who wants to kill everyone, starting with the
President, in order of succession so he can lead the country? A crew of
DC thugs who come to the rescue of the country so they can live in a
country where they are "free to jack cars"? This movie has the same
effect on a viewers intellect as does junk food on his body. It kills
it slowly. And with enough Whoppers and curly fries like this one one
could become brain dead. Hollywood really should put warning labels on
these prepackaged cookie-cutter action movies "This movie may kill your
brain cells!"
<|_=00=_|>
Released in the Philippines as "xXx: The Next Level", this sequel is
definitely more expensive, has more action, has similar number of
stunts and has new action lead played by an unlikely actor. But despite
the production values, this sequel is definitely not worth your time
and money.

Vin Diesel, who made people think that xXx stands for "Xander Cage is
eXtremely eXplosive" being the hero of the original, is nowhere to be
found which is both a good and bad thing. Diesel can deliver the action
and stunts solidly but he's so annoying when it comes to dialog and
comedy moments. I always hated the "Think PlayStation!" line.

In the sequel, Samuel L. Jackson's agency gets desperate and decides to
hire a new action agent with "more attitude". It turned out to be Ice
Cube, a prisoner in the film.

Ice Cube never fits in well with his action-packed role. Compared to
Diesel, Cube is never convincing in doing action and stunts. Worse,
Cube is very lousy with his dialog and certain moments that demanded
comedy. I think Cube is better off with a pure-comedy or pure-hip hop
role (be it lead or supporting) but as an action star? NO WAY! I'd
rather watch Ice Cube in his old role in Anaconda than this movie! You
will end up wishing the producers got back Diesel in the sequel.

Samuel L. Jackson this time gets more screen time although I would
prefer they lessened his action scenes and added talking scenes
instead. Early in the film, you'll see Jackson dual wield guns ala John
Woo (to live up to his position in his agency and survive) but I find
his role in the first movie better. Still it's nice to see him get more
screen time this time.

Willem Dafoe, who played a Vietnam soldier and a special forces
coordinator before, plays the defense secretary who plans to overthrow
the government. His presence is very well felt and he delivers a good
performance. You will hate him even more in this film than in
Spider-Man.

Sunny Mabrey? She is very pretty and very sexy. In short a hot girl but
she's nothing more than just eye candy here and she cannot be taken
seriously. She should be given some roles that demand performance, not
looks.

Lee Tamahori, whose most successful flick was Die Another Day, is the
director this time but most noticeable is his increased use of computer
graphics. Thanks to him, the film's pace is fast and something always
happen on-screen to keep you awake.

xXx story this time is shallower. Conspiracies are supposed to be deep
and detailed but this sequel simply skipped all the requirements just
to deliver action, explosions, crappy dialog and special effects. The
sequel is best viewed as a non-thinking, MTV-styled edited action
flick.

Action scenes and special effects are plenty but certain scenes are
just too unbelievable to see and accept. I did notice however that the
action in the sequel are more military in nature when compared to that
of the first film wherein its action is more related to extreme sports.

I don't recommend watching this sequel at all. You are better of
skipping it. But if you really want to watch it, better wait for the
DVD release instead.
<|_=00=_|>
I had not seen the first xXx movie when I went to watch this so I
basically had no idea what was xxx all about, except for guns and
high-speed cars of course. I really wish I hadn't gone to the movies to
see this flick, it was really terrible.

For me it was kind of hard to get a grip from the beginning because
there was nothing that would have explained who were the main
characters and what was their goal and so on. This left the characters
really shallow and the dialogue between the characters was something
out of a bum disco.

Ice-cube cannot act. Really. He is like a stiff crash test dummy on the
screen provided with the fact that he can blurt out some lines. And oh
yes, the one-liners. Horrible, I mean the one-liners were probably the
worst that I have ever heard, almost ripped my ears off. I don't know
how good a rapper Ice cube is but I think it would suit him better than
acting. What I can't but wonder is that why Samuel L. Jackson ever
agreed to do this film.

And then the aluminium rims. Almost every scene begins with the filming
of shiny and bright rims. All in all I think the whole point of the
movie was to advertise rims. This film should be buried somewhere along
with such films as Battlefield: Earth and Dungeons & Dragons.
<|_=00=_|>
Action without brains is actually a genre i have nothing against. As
long as the action sequences are well made that is. "xXx: State of the
Union" is a fair try in the genre but ultimately falls short.

The plot is as ridiculous as in the first movie. The NSA-agent Gibbons
(Samuel L. Jackson) is once again looking in weird places trying to
find a new agent that can break the rules and succeed. This time he
finds Darius Stone (Ice Cube) in a military prison. Stone is an ex Navy
Seal who will help Gibbons fight off a rogue part of the US Military
trying to dispose of the president.

Seriously, no one watches these movies for the plot anyway. So that the
plot is ridiculous and cheesy is beside the point. No one watches this
for the acting either. So that Ice Cube is not as much an actor as a
walking scowl is ALSO beside the point. He does about as good a job as
Vin Diesel did anyway. What is NOT beside the point though is the fact
that "xXx: State of the Union" employs the same method of action
filming as many other Hollywood-movies of late. You know the method:
"move the camera exceptionally close and shake it like if the
camera-man was a spastic". I know that this is to hide the fact that
Ice Cube doesn't know how to fight. Still it's incredibly irritating!
Also the lack of logic is too evident at times. Like Ice Cube driving a
sports car 360km/h on a train track with his tires torn off...
Seriously.

Otherwise this had some potential. The technical quality is great, the
movie looks really expensive. It has a lot of fun gadgets and crappy
one-liners. And the speed of this movie is absolutely insane. Right
from the beginning Lee Tamahori steps on it without ever looking back.
So even though i can't say i really enjoyed this movie it was never
boring, there is always something happening on screen. But the flaws in
mostly the action department as well as the complete lack of logic
disturbs the experience. It's still a lot better than the first movie
though. I found the first one to be complete garbage, while this is
still at least somewhat entertaining at times.

So in the end i think this "James Bond on steroids" will probably
attract a lot of 15-yearolds that like when things keep moving and
lights keep flashing. People who like to see a plot and at least some
traces of logic might want to stay away though. It could have been the
brainless action movie of the year, but it desperately needs some
better action-directing for that. I rate it 3/10.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're thinking of seeing this, stop just a minute. What could you
do with the two hours of your life that this is likely to take up? You
could write a short story, you could do a drawing, you could father
some children or you could remove your own intestines with a rusty
spoon. All of these activities would be a lot more worthwhile than
seeing xXx 2: State of the union (or :The Next Level if you live in
Blighty like me). I went to see this with high hopes that it would be
another xXx... A mindless American James Bond Movie just without the
class (sorry if i offend anyone by that, but thats is essentially what
xXx was). But I was so wrong.The film opened promisingly, showing
something that wasn't what it seemed, but despite this being a film
about setups and double crosses that was possibly the best plot twist
in the whole film. The film rapidly descends into cliché after cliché
(the script seems to have been created by entering lots of clichéd
lines into a computer and programming it to spit them out randomly).
The plot is riddled with holes which leave you wondering what just
happened and was it significant, then later on you find out that it
wasn't. In terms of acting Ice Cube is brilliant....at saying every
line in exactly the same way. The great Samuel L gives an average
performance but he could have just telephoned his lines in and it
wouldn't really have made much difference. Willem Dafoe give us a
generic bad guy performance. Scott Speedman does quite a good job as
the investigative NSA agent despite being dangled from a helicopter,
but this role is unlikely to get him very far in terms of his career.
Lets get down to the important part now. If its an action movie, it
needs good and original action sequences right...not if you're working
on xXx2. Basically, things go boom and guns go bang, but we're not
given anything really new here and there aren't really enough credible
action sequences to keep the audience hooked. The train sequence
towards the end of the film looks terrible, like something out of a
Playstation game. The CGI falls flat on its face making the films
action sequences loose credibility. one thing that confused me was who
this was aimed at. by having a Black main character and featuring lots
of black characters I thought maybe it could be trying to get a larger
black audience. But nearly every black character is a stereotype of
black 'Gangsta' culture. There is a line where xXx says "I was born
looking guilty" but this is lost when the rest of the black characters
are portrayed as crooks and thugs... in positive light! what kind of
thing is this movie trying to say? I just gave up trying to read into
it as I realised, there is nothing to read into, it is a very shallow,
badly written, badly acted, badly produced action yarn. So bad in fact
that I was actually laughing most of the way through... Best comedy of
the year.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't mind mindless, escapist entertainment ... in fact, that's why I
rented this DVD. Having seen the original XXX, I knew this wouldn't be
that great of a movie, but I was counting on the action sequences to
pull me through.

Well, apart from the beginning of the movie, XXX:State of the Union was
a huge let down from even my small expectations. I guess the budget
wasn't high enough for cool, exciting action sequences so they
substituted old-school 80s style scenes for most of it, and suffice to
say, there's a reason why most action movies don't do that stuff
anymore -- it's boring. And since the action sequences are the only
reason to watch something like this, and they suck, there's no real
reason to give this movie even a moment's consideration.

The plot involves Darius Stone (Ice Cube) replacing Vin Diesel's
character as the new, improved xXx and trying to foil a plot against
the President of the United States. Darius proceeds to throw people
around, impress the ladies, blow stuff up etc etc etc. The basic
concept is a hip-hop James Bond, and while it sounds like a cool
concept that you couldn't possibly mess up, no, these guys messed it
up... its not Ice Cube's fault, he's no actor but I've seen him do
better than this if the movie has a script and some direction.
<|_=00=_|>
Someone is targeting the old unit that Agent Augustus Gibbons used to
belong to under the command of George Deckert, now Secretary for
Defence. Half the unit are dead, Triple X agent Cage is dead and
Gibbons' underground base has been infiltrated by a highly trained team
from which he barely escaped. With his gadgets expert in tow, Gibbons
turns to a new Triple X agent to help him fight this threat  former
comrade and now life prisoner, Darius Stone. Busting Stone out of
prison, Gibbons arms him and helps him start his new mission by
uncovering hidden information; as the danger increases, so does the
pace and all clues lead to something very sinister indeed.

The production company credits right at the start of the film proclaim
this as an "Original Films Production", a claim that I thought highly
ironic since it then plunges into a pre-credit sequence that is as
genre-specific as they come, a title sequence that is a clear Bond rip
off and a film that delivers nothing more than the genre basics. Taking
the lead from the first film, the script kills off Xander Cage with
barely a mention and moves on to the new agent. Discussion of the plot
is pointless cause the whole affair is nonsense with logic holes so
large that you could drive a souped up car through it. Those looking to
this for a story that they can get into will be sorely disappointed as
the film throws its energy into noise, explosions and typically OTT
action scenes. To me and many viewers this will be just annoying hollow
spectacle but to the target audience this is all they require and xXx2
does do it noisily enough to satisfy them.

The action is as stupid and illogical as the plot itself but it is
noisy, stupid, big and bold and is enjoyable on that level; it is a
shame that it lacks any actual tension or excitement but the noise will
be enough for the target audience. At times it all gets a bit much and
just looks plain silly but it never really stops moving that long so
the next boom or bang is only ever minutes away, preventing you turning
your brain on. The attempts at character and story are the worst  the
moments with the girls really slows things down without adding even
titillation value, while the potentially brave political stance made by
the drawing of the president is just lost and wasted. Ice Cube picks up
the mantle and delivers a one-note performance where he basically
sneers his way across the screen; he lacks any sort of charisma here
and could have been any old actor (something I think those hoping to
make a franchise hope will be the case). Jackson is just collecting the
cash so his bad performance can be ignored but Dafoe is a terrible bad
guy considering he has done it well in other films. Xzibit doesn't do
much but will draw humour from the MTV teenage audience thanks to his
"Pimp my Ride" personae being called on. Mabrey and Gayle are basically
just eye candy, with breasts squeezed and lifted in every scene  they
can't act and don't have any chemistry with the basic Cube. The support
cast do lots of running around with guns or diving away form bangs but
nobody gets close to a performance.

Overall this is a noisy genre flick, nothing more and nothing less.
Those claiming how awful it is forget that there are people who don't
want art films, emotional films or engaging dramas, they just want to
whoop and holler as things get blowing up in fancy-looking ways. For
them, and them alone, this film will do the job as it provides effects,
stunts and noise. However those looking for even the most basic
characters, plot, tension, excitement or development will find
themselves yawning through this noisy cross between a hip-hop video and
a video game.
