
According to The Grudge, there's a Japanese belief that when someone
dies in a powerful grip of rage, then a curse is left behind. It's a
"stain" that forever becomes a part of the place where the death
occurred, and it will kill everything it touches. All I can say is if
that were true then the movie-going public better hope I never die in a
theater. The audience at this movie was probably the most obnoxious
crowd I've ever had the displeasure of watching a movie with. Talk
about being in a powerful grip of rage. More on that later.

Jump scenes rule the day here. That's right, this baby is stocked with
jump scenes! If you're having a hard time deciphering my complicated
terminology, then let me explain that a "jump scene" is one in which
something startling happens to catch you off guard and makes you jump
in your seat. Some people think jump scenes are cheap ploys to get a
scare from the audience, but they're really well done in this movie.
And they're manufactured frequently and shrewdly enough to keep you in
a constant state of unease.

Unfortunately, when most moviegoers get scared they like to scream and
then laugh and talk about it for 2 minutes afterwards. If you're gonna
scream then scream. But then SHUT UP and WATCH THE MOVIE! This ain't a
comedy and it certainly isn't a coffeehouse, so quit killin' my
atmosphere.

Some of you might be a little agitated to know that The Grudge does
follow some clich√©d horror movie conventions, such as a character
investigating a creepy noise in a dark attic with only a cigarette
lighter to illuminate the way. And of course, one character has to
slowly follow a strange figure that shouldn't be there in the first
place. But it's forgivable. Keep in mind, characters aren't necessarily
supposed to know they're in a horror movie. I'm sure we've all explored
strange noises before, except rather than a horrific, disfigured ghost
producing the noise, in real life the sound is usually coming from
Uncle Larry's bathroom excursion. Never underestimate the horror of a
night out at the Taco Bell.

Comparisons to The Ring are inevitable, so I'll just say that I
personally feel The Grudge is the creepier of the two. This is a movie
that's heavy on atmosphere and freaky imagery. The Japanese ghosts
creeped me out even more than the time I caught some pervert staring at
me in the men's bathroom stall back in my college days. Lucky for him,
he took off before I had a chance to demonstrate what happens when a
person is caught in a powerful grip of rage.

But The Ring has the better story and a much better ending. The Grudge
does a great job of keeping you guessing. You never really know where
it's going, and since the story isn't linear you really have to pay
attention. I know a lot of you have the attention span of a goldfish
(about 9 seconds, you just learned something today, thank me later), so
this may be problematic. I think it works fairly well, but one of my
complaints is that near the end everything is wrapped up and explained
rather quickly.

As a result, I wish the movie had been longer. A longer running time
could've produced more in-depth character development, a more clever
way to explain what was going on, and maybe even a better ending. And
there's my biggest complaint. Why do so many horror movies feel the
need to use the I Know What You Did Last Summer-esque "look, there's
gonna be a sequel" ending? Come on, how about some closure? It's
similar to if you're waiting for me to close out my review in a witty
and funny fashion, but instead, for some reason I just decide to end
the review in mid sent...

THE GIST

If you're looking for some Halloween entertainment, then The Grudge
will give you some good jumps and surround you with creepy imagery. But
I strongly recommend that you see it at a time when there won't be a
big crowd because I know I would've enjoyed the movie a lot more had I
not been surrounded by a lot of stand-up comedians who felt the need to
crack jokes at the most tense and inopportune times. Folks, this is a
horror movie. Tension and atmosphere are a big part of it, so please
keep your laughing and talking to a minimum. I look forward to watching
the DVD in peace and quiet one day where the only idiots I'll possibly
be surrounded by will be friends and family. 

Rating: 3.75 (out of 5)
<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of comments floating about complaining about a lack of
plot or reason behind characters actions. Jabs at it being a copy of
The Ring or just another ghost story. Let me try and help out a bit.
Hopefully more people will go and see the movie for what it is and not
look for Western film theories in an Asian movie. 

The plot is very simple, part of the appeal of the series is how
effective such a simple story can be. Watch the movie and pay
attention. I'm not really sure what people are complaining about. It
all seemed very simple to me. Terrible events cause spirits to haunt a
house and all those associated with it. Why are they haunting about?
Their lives were ended prematurely and under terrible circumstances!
What more do you want. I'm a ghost, why do I go and kill jane who came
into my house, cause I'm p*ssed about how I died and I'm going to take
out on somebody. Simple. Gripe gripe gripe, nothing is being said. Here
is what I loved about the movie, ignore everything else I've said and
just look for what I saw.

In horror fan is going to love the use of music and sound effects in
the movie. Take note of the lack of dialogue in the movie, yet how much
emotion is conveyed. I'm sorry it wasn't our beautiful American actors
carrying the film. It was brilliant music, sound effects and editing.
Welcome to Japanese film. Less is more...blah blah blah. 

Key things to look for in Japanese horror, spirits (not ghosts very
different then what we think of as a ghost), indicators of the spirit
(eyes and hair not chain rattling or moving furniture). The eyes in
this movie were not an indication of who was going to be killed, it is
not the ring. Eyes are the portals into the spirit. The significance of
her eyes flashing into view isn't to tell you who is going to die but
to convey the state of the spirits in the film. The hair is a classic
Japanese horror technique. Nothing really behind except its creepy and
it continues a tradition in a culture that respects tradition. 

On to spirits. Not ghosts. We have spirits for everything, good and
bad. My dad will tell you that there is a spirit in his coffee mug, a
different one then the one in his coffee maker. We all get along
provided we pay the proper respect to them by letting them do their
thing. Example: My dad makes his coffee and drinks it from his mug
respecting the role the spirits had. Don't ask me why but thats what we
do. It isn't magic or hokey pokey. We don't pray to any of them save
very important ones, say ones that protect your home, they just exist.
In the Grudge the significant relationship is the fact that these
tortured spirits don't haunt a location as much as they haunt all
associated with the place and time of their greatest pain. They aren't
ghost of the killed family. They are spirits whose purpose is to cause
the pain they have suffered. Back to the coffee. Mug spirit likes to
serve coffee and be cleaned and treated well, its his job kind of.
Emotional trauma spirit from the movie likes to cause emotional trauma.
Get it. They aren't haunting in the western sense of seeking revenge
they are spirits created from a traumatic event and are fulfilling
their job of continuing what they know best. The prompts at the
beginning of the movie explain this. They do a horrible job and say
something about being infected with rage but it all is the same. 

So why was this movie scary. Beyond the classic use of music and
lighting, or the quick edit cut shots and nasty faces of the spirits.
Its scary because for a culture that has spirits watching over every
little thing you could think of, having a few spirits who's purpose is
to cause pain is pretty serious. 

Watch the movie with that in mind. That spirits that you believe you
function alongside daily can also turn it all around and f things up
for you. Oh yeah, you get killed by a spirit created from a terrible
even and guess what, you've now become a spirit haunted by pain as
well. Get into the music and sound effects, it is great fun.

The skipping about in the timeline is done very well as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie expecting an artsy scary film. What I got was
scare after scare. It's a horror film at it's core. It's not dull like
other horror films where a haunted house just has ghosts and gore. This
film doesn't even show you the majority of the deaths it shows the fear
of the characters. I think one of the best things about the concept
where it's not just the house thats haunted its whoever goes into the
house. They become haunted no matter where they are. Office buildings,
police stations, hotel rooms... etc. After reading some of the external
reviews I am really surprised that critics didn't like this film. I am
going to see it again this week and am excited about it.

I gave this film 10 stars because it did what a horror film should. It
scared the s**t out of me.
<|_=00=_|>
Karen (Sarah Michelle Gellar), an exchange student in Japan who is just
beginning to do some social work, is sent to aid an elderly
semi-catatonic woman, Emma (Grace Zabriskie), after her previous
caretaker, Yoko (Yoko Maki), disappears. Karen soon learns that
something is not right in Emma's home, and she attempts to "see how
deep the rabbit hole goes".

Maybe it's a delayed influence from the success of M. Night Shyamalan's
films, but slower-paced, understated horror films are a recent trend.
In some cases, such as Hide and Seek (2005), the approach works
remarkably well, and in others, such as White Noise (2005), the pacing
tends to kill the film. I didn't like The Grudge quite as much as Hide
and Seek, but this is still a very good film--it earns a 9 out of 10
from me.

The Grudge has a couple significant differences from other recent
examples of that trend, however. One, it is well known that this is a
remake based on the Japanese film series that began with Ju-On (2000)
(in particular, it's extremely close to the first half of Ju-On: The
Grudge, aka Ju-On 3, from 2003). Two, as with many Japanese horror
films, the slower pacing here isn't so much in the realm of realist
drama as with surrealism. As is also the case with a large percentage
of European horror, The Grudge should be looked at more as a filmed
nightmare.

Director Takashi Shimizu, also the director of the five Japanese
entries in the Ju-On series to date (the fifth is currently in
production), and writer Stephen Susco have largely dispensed with
linearity and are not overly concerned with logic or plot holes when it
comes to the horror behind the story. The idea instead is to present a
dreamlike sequence of scenes, with dream logic, where the focus is
atmosphere, creepiness, the uncanny, and for many viewers--scares. How
well the film works for you will largely depend on how well you can
adapt yourself to, or are used to, this different approach to
film-making (although admittedly, some of the seeming gaps are filled
in by previous entries in the Ju-On series). Traditionally, American
audiences consider as flaws leaving plot threads hanging and abandoning
"rules" for the "monster". A more poetic, metaphorical, surreal
approach to film isn't yet accepted by the mainstream in the U.S.

However, even if you're not used to it, it's worth trying to suspend
your normal preconceptions about films and give The Grudge a shot. This
is a well written, well directed, well acted film, filled with unusual
properties, such as the story interweaving a large number of "main
characters" (which is done better here than the more episodic Ju-On 3),
good cinematography, subtle production design touches (check out
Gellar's clothes, which match the color and texture of the exterior of
Emma's house, when Gellar first approaches), and beautifully effective
horror material.

Even though it is more slowly paced that your average horror film of
the past, the pacing usually enhances the eeriness, and there is no
shortage of bizarre events to keep horror fans entertained. The
supernatural premise of the film is absorbing, and based on interviews
on the DVD with Shimizu, have prodded me to pay more attention to
Japanese beliefs and folklore. Although the most interesting subtexts
would probably arise with a more intimate knowledge of Japanese
culture, it's interesting to ponder why so many Japanese horror films
feature scary children and adults who look like scary children.

I subtracted one point for the film slightly veering into clich√©d
mystery/thriller territory with a "here's what really happened"
flashback, but even that was fairly well done, and otherwise, this
would have been a 10 out of 10.

Now that I've said all of the above, let me finish with a mini-rant:
It's not that I'm anti-remake, but it is ridiculous that U.S.
distributors and studios feel that we need remakes of foreign films to
make them appropriate for consumption. The original versions of these
films should just be playing in U.S. theaters in wide release. There is
no need to present an almost identical film but just substituting white
American actors for non-white or foreign actors. Yes, The Grudge is a
fine film, but ultimately, I'd rather see something original using this
talent, and be treated to the latest foreign horror films--not just
Japanese, but also Indian, Spanish, Chinese, etc.--at my multiplex. In
the hope that someone with some pull at the studios reads this, it is
also more cost-effective to do this, as (1) you can completely avoid
production costs, and simply make domestic distribution deals from
which you receive profit, and (2) you can make money off of fans like
myself who otherwise pick up the foreign film DVDs in foreign
manufactured or even bootleg versions.
<|_=00=_|>
This is what I wrote to some friends earlier:

HOLY CRAP, The Grudge is, honest to God, one of the scariest films I've
ever seen! I am either getting very soft in my old age, or Sam Raimi
and Ghost Pictures did a KICK A** job! (Can't wait for Boogeyman!)

I was very scared sitting in the dark theater and wished I had someone,
anyone, sitting next to me (except the protagonist in Grudge. I saw the
movie by myself.) I swear, there were many many jump scenes that were
NOT expected! I felt foolish but my nerves did not care! I was on edge
the entire movie, from the opening credits, and the music was
fantastically scary. I keep thinking of that sound, though, and I DO
NOT LIKE IT!

I actually gasped aloud a few times, and cried, "oh" at one scene!! Oh,
yeah, I even half-covered my eyes a few times! Word to the wise,
though: I thought some of the scenes were a little psychotic. My DH
hated Event Horizon and thought whoever wrote it was sick and psycho,
but I don't remember the movie so can't compare.

I can't say I "enjoyed" this movie b/c I was terrified, but it was very
very good and scary. The ending scene, too...whoa! For being a
32-year-old-mommy, I think I may have nightmares from this movie,
especially because of that sound. Please get out of my head ;)

In summary, this is not a slasher flick like I grew up with (Jason,
Freddy). This is a most-of-the-time spooky movie. Perfect for
Halloween.

Two great trailers for this movie were Boogeyman and The Ring 2!!
<|_=00=_|>
I hate to throw out lines like this, but in this case I feel like I
have to: the American remake of THE GRUDGE is by far the worst film I
have seen in theaters in the last 5 years. There, I said it. And now
that I have gotten that out of my system, please let me explain why.

"When someone dies in the grip of a powerful rage, a curse is born. The
curse gathers in that place of death. Those who encounter it will be
consumed by its fury." That is the premise of THE GRUDGE and I will
admit it sounds intriguing. Unfortunately, the filmmakers take it no
further. Those who encounter the "curse" are indeed consumed by its
fury and that is all you get. You want more? Well too bad. Some critics
and fans are pointing out that the sole purpose of THE GRUDGE is to
scare you. The problem is that when there is no plot to speak of,
creepy images and sounds can only go so far. Director Takashi Shimizu,
pulling a George Sluizer and remaking his own original film(s),
valiantly attempts to build atmosphere in the first hour ¬ñ by repeating
the same scene over and over and over and over. It pretty much unfolds
like this:

-person walks into house

-something flashes by the camera and/or a strange sound is heard 

-person goes to investigate

-sound starts to get loud

-person sees a ghost

-loud scream and/or cat screech

-cut to black

Before the audience is even given a hint of plot, this exact same
scenario unfolds 5 times in the first hour. The first time was actually
somewhat creepy. Each subsequent use became laughable as the film went
on. By the time the end of the film rolled around, my friend and I were
laughingly wondering if this scene would end "with a loud scream and a
cut to black." We were never proved wrong.

The film has no liner storyline, instead unfolding in a series of
vignettes that leave the audience jumbled. I have no problem with
non-linear storytelling when it is done right. The film jumps from time
period to time period with no rhyme or reason. I haven't seen a movie
in such a state since the opening of the theatrical version of
HIGHLANDER 2. And this storytelling technique mars any sort of mystery
that film could have possibly had. If you already know the ghosts have
scared two characters to death, how is it shocking when their bodies
are found in the attic? And why should we care when a detective tries
to investigate the mysterious disappearances when we already know what
happened to everyone?

Obviously greenlit the second the American version of THE RING made $15
million its first weekend, THE GRUDGE is nothing but calculated
imitation disguised as an actual movie. The scariest things about THE
GRUDGE are that it made $40 million dollars its first weekend and some
people consider it the "scariest movie ever made." I wonder what
happens to those who get consumed by the fury of paying to see THE
GRUDGE?
<|_=00=_|>
Massive multiple chills down the spine! I'm surprised there's people
who didn't like it! I saw it at 10 o'clock in the morning and still got
scared stiff! And I've seen hundreds of thrillers/horror movies! For
crying out loud,I'm 22!!! I mean, OK, voice acting, not particularly
good, probably even b-movie-ish. But the genuine look of terror, the
sound effects, the flow! From the very start, hitting you again and
again with relentless, unforgiving, terrorising scenes! So many clich√©s
yet none fails to surprise/scare! You know it's coming, it's coming,
it's coming, BOO! and you still jump off the chair. Grab a pillow and a
blanket, call your closest friend over and do not watch it at night!
Hats off to the Japanese!
<|_=00=_|>
Grantes; it's not possible to make a movie anywhere near perfect, but
this one has been so misunderstood that I created an account and am
writing my first review ever in its defense.

If you don't like a movie that doesn't play by your rules (the
characters must develop, the scenes must be sequential, ghosts can't
leave their haunting grounds, any unresolved ending means a sequel...),
then buy tickets to movies you know you'll like instead of getting
disappointed and complaining. I don't mean to offend any of the readers
or reviewers that thought badly of the movie, but the overwhelming
negativity I found to be based more on false assumptions and adherence
to non-universal traditions

--spoilers ahead-- 

For those who didn't pay enough attention and got confused, here are
some things people missed that are a little essential for keeping up
with the plot (in no particular order or completeness): Yoko's jaw,
which she is later without, is the bloody chunk in the attic. The
gasoline used to burn the house was brought in by the detective. The
lighter--also to burn the house--was not the heroine's, it was her
boyfriend's (who we did in fact see smoking in the Buddhist mourner
scene). The spirits are not ghosts as we think of them; other reviews
have gone into depth to explain that. The creepy hair is a Japanese
spirit trademark, like doors closing themselves in American horror.
Bill Pullman's suicide is explained very thoroughly throughout the
movie, if you remember all the parts and link them together.

Another thing I would like to point out is the extreme differences
between theater traditions around the world. Americans prefer a
plot-based, character-driven experience. In Native American
storytelling, in contrast, characters routinely change their names and
appearances. Japanese kabuki theater purposefully avoided plot
entirely. What I'm trying to say is that this movie is very easy to
misunderstand when viewed in the American horror paradigm. There are
thematic materials and deep traditions all over the place, and it
really is a scary movie if you get into it and ignore the
schoolchildren around you laughing at it, but if you don't pick up on
(or at least accept) the deeper meanings then a lot of the experience
is lost. The movie was (re)made for American audiences, so it isn't
quite as quirkily Japanese as it could be; so just let the
idiosyncrasies draw you in and then scare you ####less.
<|_=00=_|>
This review is really a word of warning, if you've seen any of the
earlier Japanese versions of this story you've seen this movie before.
If you've seen all four of the earlier films, you've really seen
everything (except the frightening opening with Bill Pullman) and you'd
best wait for home video.

I understand that the film makers wanted to make sure that this film
worked and made them money, so they repeated what worked, even casting
the same Japanese actors for the kid and other roles; but it would have
been nice if they had done more that was new beyond the opening
sequence.

This isn't to say that the film is bad, its not, rather, its just that
unless you're walking in to the film fresh odds are you're going to be
like me and know what each five or ten minutes is going to bring
because of the set up of the sequence.

For me it was a 6 out of 10, for fresh eyes probably higher.
<|_=00=_|>
so, being a fairly deep fan of horror movies, it's been a while since
i've seen one that really made me jump (or fidget nervously.)

definitely going to get this on DVD when it comes out... a hell of a
lot better than the ring. the thing that i don't get is that so many
people that we talkd with after the movie thought that it was horrible,
well, if that's what you think, then so be it... i know what i liked
and it takes a fair amount to get me to actually feel scared, so i have
to say that this one is worth watching.

now, you might be disappointed in the story if you need everything in a
neat and tidy line, because the plot goes back an forth a little bit to
help build the story (i think that if it was shown in chronological
order, it would have ruined the whole thing.)

i'm actually glad that this movie had very little bloody messes in
it... maybe the rest of you studio writers and whathaveyous will
realize that you don't have to splash the red stuff all over the set to
make people afraid.
