
This film is about death, love, and mental incapacity. There are bound
to be endless clich√©s, comparisons, and parallels drawn with Ron
Howard's "A Beautiful Mind", so I won't go there.

In the end, this film is all about Gwyneth Paltrow.

She is on screen at least 80% of this film. Her character dances
between mourning, anger, remorse, confusion, fear, vulnerability,
sadness, and just a little bit of love. There are very dramatic changes
in emotion from moment to moment, and Paltrow pulls it off brilliantly.

Sir Anthony Hopkins role, while relatively small, is crucial to the
film. His performance was good, but not great. But it didn't really
matter, as Proof is all about Paltrow. Hope Davis and Jake Gyllenhaal
also gave solid performances, but their as with Hopkin's role were
really nothing more than support Paltrow.

The biggest disappointment for me was the almost total lack of any
'real' mathematics. For a film that revolves around brilliant
mathematical proofs, there's an almost painful scarcity of and real
math in the film. There are shots of seemingly random equations
scrawled across paper or a blackboard, and the odd conversation making
reference to some known mathematical law or theorem, but I would have
liked more.

IF you want a happy film, go see something else. If you want a mindless
film, go see something else. If you want a typical love story, go see
something else. If you want an intelligent well written and presented
story of substance involving a a character experiencing a
roller-coaster of emotions, Proof may be for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I love a movie in which every moment of it feels authentic, and "Proof"
is that kind of movie. Critics have had a fairly mediocre response to
the film, so I was somewhat surprised that I liked it so much. But it's
easily one of the best movies I've seen this year.

I didn't see the David Auburn play on which the movie is based, and
maybe many of the film's detractors have: screen adaptations of
favorite plays often seem to dilute them to the detriment of the story.
But if this movie is worse than its stage counterpart, it must have
made one damn fine play.

The acting in this film is its major attribute, and director John
Madden is wise enough to realize the talent of his ensemble and stand
out of their way. He plays a bit with chronology and lets the pieces of
his story click into place much like a math puzzle; I don't know
whether or not this is original to the film or borrowed from the play,
but either way it works well. But mostly, he lets the actors strut
their stuff, and the four principals make the most of meaty roles.

Most of the acclaim has been falling, and rightly so, to Gwyneth
Paltrow, who gives a full-bodied, textured and powerful performance as
Catherine, who has inherited her genius at math from her father and is
deathly afraid that she may have inherited his madness as well. I don't
know that Paltrow has yet had a role as substantial as this one, and
she flexes her acting chops in a way I have not seen her do outside of
her underrated performance in "Sylvia." Hope Davis matches her scene
for scene as the astringent older sister; it's refreshing to see Davis
break away from the mousy, mealy persona she so frequently adopts and
play this crisp, overwhelming character. The male actors have less to
do overall, but the roles are perfectly cast. Jake Gyllenhaal is ripe
for stardom, and this may be the year that brings it. Anthony Hopkins
has been dismissed as hammy here, but I think he does an effective job
of portraying mental illness, and creates heartbreaking moments that
could have been ruined had they been played differently.

"Proof" feels entirely honest about the dynamics of dysfunctional
families; you just know David Auburn is writing from personal
experience. Like Robert Redford's "Ordinary People," if you have any
exposure to similar family dynamics, you know the team that put the
film together got everything just right. "Proof" also creates a
parallel between mathematics and the messiness of life that makes one
re-evaluate the rigidity of what always appears to be an exact science.
As one must accept a level of ambiguity in life, one must also be
willing to make leaps of faith in mathematics, because nothing can be
100% proved. 

I highly recommend this film. It's satisfying on both an intellectual
and emotional level. And any movie that can make math exciting to me
gets an automatic thumbs up.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Rarely do we get to see a film based
on a Pulitzer Prize and Tony award winning story (by David Auburn). It
does tend to jump the expectations a bit! There are facets of this
story that we have seen on screen before in such fine films as "A
Beautiful Mind", "Shine" and "Good Will Hunting". The topics of
brilliance and insanity often overlap, in fact, the line is often so
blurry as to prevent accurate diagnosis. Gwyneth Paltrow is spectacular
in her gut-wrenching, emotional roller coaster of a role. I feel very
cheated having read recently that she is contemplating giving up acting
to enjoy her life and family. This would be a shame as she is only
scratching the surface of her talents and artistry. Teaming again with
director John Madden ("Shakespeare in Love"), Paltrow delivers an Oscar
worthy performance that is emotionally deep and profound. Thank
goodness she was selected over the bitter Mary Louise Parker.

The assembled supporting cast is impressive in name; however, Sir
Anthony Hopkins is solid, but not great in the relatively small, but
crucial role as Paltrow's once genius, then insane, now dead father.
His influence on her life is beyond question and how she deals is the
heart of the story. Jake Gyllenhaal, although a fine actor, is totally
miscast as Hopkins' former student who tries to secure the legacy. Hope
Davis is perfect as the irritating sister of Paltrow who has "been
working 14 hour days" for 5 years while Paltrow cared for dear old
nutty dad.

What prevents the film from being great is that it never decides what
it is about. It is a film about a math genius (or two) but it shows
almost no math. Is it a film about genius? Is it about insanity? Is it
about caring for an elderly parent? Is it a film of self-discovery? All
of these are touched on, but none are hit head-on. It is a fine film,
definitely worth seeing, but it will probably leave you feeling a bit
empty.
<|_=00=_|>
GWYNETH, GWYNETH, GWYNETH! Not having been overly impressed with any of
her previous performances, in Proof, Gwyneth Paltrow brings a highly
emotional, nuanced, and so finely-tuned performance, I must say this
movie this movie a stand-out.

She inhabits her character so fully, I was pulled in and so completely
entranced the entire time. In fact, certain words or phrases are reused
and have an uncanny allusion to when they were previously said. The
effect as that you experience and follow the moments, and the thoughts
of the characters, even though they are so deeply imbedded within. I
credit Gwyneth and the director with making this work so well. I've
never experienced such an organic link between phrases separated in
time in a movie before. Wow!

This is a movie about how a daughter, her sister, and a grad student
deal with the passing of a great mathematician. While there may be
similarities with 'A Beautiful Mind' and even 'Good Will Hunting',
knowing there are any such links didn't help me with this movie and I
think actually does a dis-service. This movie stands on its own. Ignore
any such comparisons.

Acting-wise, there were strong performances all around with Anthony
Hopkins giving a top-notch performance. Jake Gyllenhaal's was strong,
but perhaps not to the level of his rather awesome performance in
Brokeback Mountain.

Good things aside, the one thing that irked me about this film, was
that given the strong link to mathematics, how unbelievable some of the
dialogue was regarding the 'math. While Gwyneth's and Hopkins'
characters pulled off a sense of mathematical intelligence, Jake's
character hardly said anything mathematically competent and even came
across as flustered in expressing himself mathematically leaving me
feeling cheated. In my view, this is chiefly the fault of the
screenplay but to a lesser extent in the actor's portrayal. Ignore this
rather small point, and this movie passes with flying colours. Q.E.D.
<|_=00=_|>
Gwyneth Paltrow gives a haunting portrayal of a daughter whose devotion
to a mentally challenged father draws out her own mental edges. As
care-giver for an elderly parent I am well aware of our fragile mental
world and Paltrow's performance shines with nothing but truth. Her
honesty and the emotional territory she portrayals are "proof" of her
integrity as an actress. The film is impressively directed -- the
script is paced compellingly and draws the viewer into a life situation
that most of us simply refuse to acknowledge and try to avoid. Once the
"great mind" of our genius is "gone" -- who are we? Hope Davis as
Paltrow's sister does a great job of showing how striving for her
"normalacy" is the ultimate lunacy. Great ensemble playing by all. I
highly recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Proof", the excellent play by David Auburn, was one of the best things
in the New York stage in recent memory. Part of the attraction was the
intelligent subject matter, math science, and how it connected the four
characters one got to meet. The casting was an ideal one, Mary Louise
Parker, Larry Briggman, Johanna Day and Ben Shenkman, playing
Cahterine, Robert, Claire and Hal, respectively.

Mr. Auburn and Rebecca Miller, a movie director, herself, took the task
of adapting "Proof" for the screen. The result, directed by John
Madden, opens the play in cinematic terms, no small undertaking in
presenting the movie to a wider audience who might not be interested in
science, and much less in the advanced math that plays an important
role in the proceedings.

If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading here.

Catherine, the 27 year old, at the center of the film, is a woman who
has stayed behind to take care of her aging father, a man much esteemed
in academic circles, who is suffering from, perhaps, a neurological
illness that is killing him slowly. Catherine has, in a way, sacrificed
her life in order to see that Robert spends his last days at home
instead of at an institution.

The death of the father brings Claire home. This woman, who lives in
New York, wants to get rid of everything connected with her father. She
even has made plans for Catherine to move from Chicago to be near each
other in New York, where things are much better. To complicate things,
Harold, the nerdy math student, finds a hidden notebook that might
contain a discovery that will revolutionize math. The only problem is
the proof might not have been the dead man's own creation.

"Proof" works as a film because of Mr. Madden's direction. We are kept
involved in what is going on because we have been won by Catherine, the
wounded woman trying to live her life without having to tend to a sick
man. Catherine love for math, in a way, makes her realize her place is
in the same institution where her father made mathematical discoveries
as she will be following his steps.

Gwyneth Paltrow makes an excellent Catherine, a role she had played on
the London stage. Ms. Paltrow is a welcome presence in the movie
because of the intelligence she projects when working with a good
director like John Madden. In fact, it has been a while since we saw
this actress in a film.

Hope Davis, another excellent actress, plays Claire, the materialistic
sister who has arrived and who wants to transform the frumpy Catherine
and mold her to her own taste. Ms. Davis has accustomed us to expect a
valuable contribution to any film in which she plays. As Claire, she
clearly understand who this character she is portraying really is.

Anthony Hopkins has only a few good moments on the screen. Jake
Gyllenhaal's character Harold is not as effective as Ben Shenkman's was
on the stage. In fact, Mr. Gyllenhaal, with his dark good looks, seems
to be someone who would not be interested in math at all.

"Proof" is an immensely rewarding film thanks to what John Madden's
vision.
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing this movie makes one realize how truly dumb and unchallenging
most Hollywood movies, aimed at young teenage boys, are. The script was
brilliant, and all four actors do a fine job of bringing the story to
life. I too saw Mary Louise Parker in the stage version, and though I
slightly preferred her to Gwynneth, the latter nonetheless was fine as
the gifted and disturbed Catherine. I thought Jake Gyllenhaal was very
good in his role, but too good-looking and hunky to play a geeky
mathematician. Compared to the play, his relationship with Catherine
developed a little too quickly in the movie, considering what a loner
Catherine had been up to this time. Hope Davis was great as the more
"normal," but controlling sister Claire, her second best performance
ever, after the under-appreciated one she gave in "American Splendor"
(be sure to rent THAT movie if you haven't seen it), and she manages to
be more sympathetic than the actress who played her in the stage
version. Hopkins as the brilliant, mentally ill mathematician-father
was fine, though not particularly special in the role.

I only have two quibbles. One, there was not enough mathematics in the
movie OR the play. Everyone has studied advanced math, so why not
challenge the audience a little more and let us in on what the proof is
actually about. It is kind of like watching a movie about a musician
and not letting the audience hear any of the music! Two, it is not
believable that in a crucial scene towards the end of the movie, that
neither Catherine and especially the more materialistic Claire would
not care what ultimately happens to the proof, especially when being
told of its possible value.

Aside from these flaws, if you are looking for intelligent fare and a
break from mindless action films and the mostly unfunny comedies of the
past summer, you owe it to yourself to see this film. The theater I saw
it in was almost empty, so I fear it is not doing too well. Remember
that every ticket you buy is a vote for more of that kind of film being
made. Let's hear it for more stimulating and mature films like this
one!
<|_=00=_|>
by the dialogue, you can tell this story began as a very good play. the
issue with making a movie from a very good play is that you have to add
something impossible to do on stage. i think paltrow does an excellent
job. i'm not a big gwyn fan, but the way she portrayed her deep sadness
throughout the movie, in closeups you wouldn't see from the balcony
section of a theater - the fragility of her grasp on reality, the
trauma of watching her father deteriorate before her eyes... this is
something beyond "a beautiful mind," which centered more on the
hallucinations and surreality of a victim of mental disease. "proof,"
instead, focuses on the father-daughter relationship and how, even
after caring for his deteriorated mind for years, a daughter doesn't
think twice about seeking her father's approval - as if he could be
coherent for the moment she needed him to be. i thought that was the
most poignant part of the movie. there's not a lot to the story of the
movie, but the depth in the performances - paltrow, hopkins and hope
davis - is worth the ticket. its nice to actually see a very good movie
once in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
"Proof" hones in on the emotional relationships in the play. With
Rebecca Miller jointly credited with David Auburn on adapting his play,
this is less coy about who did what to whom when in reality or delusion
than it is about connections between people. 

The flashbacks cut effectively back and forth and smooth out where each
character is coming from.

"Catherine," the daughter of a brilliant mathematician who is somewhat
modeled on John Nash's struggles with madness which were portrayed in
"A Beautiful Mind," is still the focal point of attention. But with the
other characters fleshed out more Gwyneth Paltrow has more to
naturalistically react to than the stage actresses (I saw it on
Broadway with a mercurial Anne Heche). Paltrow brings unexpected
fragility to the role and makes her sarcastic accusations to her sister
come out of personal pain and not just spitefulness. You really see
that she is emotionally ravaged from putting her life and mind on hold
for a father with a very strong personality.

Anthony Hopkins is unusually paternal as the father and you understand
her attractions and fear of him, as well as why the sister had to flee
how insecure she felt there, as Hope Davis manages to breathe some life
into a strident character. We see very clearly the demands of being a
caregiver to a legend. Unlike in "Iris" at the end of careers, we do
ache at the sacrifices the young caregiver has made and how this
claustrophobic existence has led to her own crippling doubts about her
work, her life and her sanity.

Jake Gyllenhaal is the hunkiest, most adorable, rock 'n' rollin' math
graduate student since Matt Damon in "Good Will Hunting" and could help
increase math enrollments around the country. But as irresistible as he
is, and their relationship is literally more believably fleshed out as
young people than in the play, we also can share Paltrow's suspicion of
him. But we see more of his activities, as the film opens up the play,
so we too clearly know before she that he has regained in our
credibility as he seeks his proof. I don't mind that the film adds to
the romantic aspects and drawn out coda as I thought the play tempted
unfulfillingly in that direction and it is a means to help her regain
the multiple meanings of proof -- as evidence, as trust, as confidence. 

Director John Madden keeps the camera moving actively during long
dialog interchanges, reflecting "Catherine"s agitated state of mind.
The house and academic setting well establish the atmosphere,
particularly when there's more people around, though some of the
outdoor shots seemed like filler. 

The score is occasionally intrusive, but the concluding voice-over is
even more annoying and unnecessary.
<|_=00=_|>
Knowing that Proof won Tony and Pulitzer awards, I approach the film
with reverence and skepticism, given the stage production had a single
set and the film uses several other locations, as films are wont to do.
I am here to report the play is well-adapted to film, with an
Oscar-worthy performance by Gwyneth Paltrow, no such honor for Anthony
Hopkins, and a miscasting for a much too hunky Jake Gyllenhall as a
mathematician. The themes of parental influence, truth and doubt,
trust, and appearance and reality are nicely woven into a deceptively
lean script (Just think of the play Copenhagen, peopled by physics
types, and its runaway verbosity).

David Auburn's script allows Paltrow to muse about her intellectual and
emotional inheritance from her genius dad, whose funeral is imminent.
At the same time a question of plagiarism offers a conflict that is
both vexing and irresolvable. Jake Gyllenhaal's young professor Hal,
not as dorky as he should be, provides romance and refereeing between
sisters about the authorship of research discovered in the prof's
drawer.

But mostly this is a story of a family and the deep ties between a
father and his daughter. Her debt to him genetically and academically
is palpable; his influence on her, even in his dementia and finally his
death, is always present.
