
I saw this film on October 2nd, 2006 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival's Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

It's not easy being a young penguin when you can't sing and singing
well is how you find your one true soul mate. The mating happens when
young couples are attracted to each other's own rendition of their
heart song. And to make matters even worse, the young penguin, Mumble,
is a natural tap dancer, which is not appreciated by his parents or his
teachers or the penguin colony. And to top it all off, there is a
shortage of fish and no one knows why.

The unhappy young Mumble runs into 5 small Latino penguins from another
penguin colony and the adventure takes off. The story line cuts back
and forth between the fish shortage environmental mystery and Mumble's
attempt to be attractive to Gloria, his love interest. Along the way he
runs into penguin eating birds and penguin eating mammals and almost
alien-like man made machines.

This is a musical comedy animation and the songs are classic rock and
the dance routines are Broadway-theater clever and these songs and
dances never stop throughout the film.

Mumble is a loser in the eyes of his peers, and feels a lot of pain.
But he is also heroic and brave and optimistic and he never gives up.
Those traits do not let him down. Mumble can pass on an important
message to young people. It's your attitude that can carry you through
successfully in life. It is not always about physical attributes and
physical beauty.

Robin Williams voices Ramon, one of the small Latino penguins, and also
Lovelace, the film-flam psychic of the Latino penguin colony. Robin
Williams' two characters are over the top which is perfect for the
normally over the top Robin Williams. This comedic element keeps the
film from taking its adult themes too seriously.

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this last weekend at a special screening and was suitably
impressed. Although I'm a big fan of George Miller's films, I was very
hesitant to see this one. I'm not a big fan of animated films, much
less musicals. The trailers looked awful and indicated nothing about
the story. Until the screening came up, I had no intention of seeing
this on the big screen. After the opening musical number, the movie
quickly won me over. The way it's made is incredibly cinematic, and, at
its heart, tells a great mythic story: an outcast leaves his community
and journeys to the edge of the world to find a way to end the famine
that's plaguing his species. Along this quest, our hero, Mumble, learns
to live with his outsider status (he can't sing) and makes use of his
own particular gift (tap dancing). It's a simple story that's told in a
very creative way with a lot of heart. 

The musical numbers, instead of having a disrupting effect and stopping
the flow of the story, actually advance the plot because they're
integral to the story and this particular type of penguin. Emperor
Penguins apparently find their mates by singing. While it all sounds
the same to us, they are highly attuned to each others songs. The film
cleverly translates that idea to the screen by having these animated
penguins sing iconic pop/rock songs. 

I thought the animation was top notch and the style perfectly suited
for the story. This isn't the goofy cartoonish animation seen in this
past year's other animal-oriented films. It's very rich and leaning
heavily towards realism. The vast icy landscapes seem to be copied
straight from documentary footage. Just jaw-droppingly beautiful.

There's one shot in the film which really epitomizes how well made it
is and made me love it that much more. Mumble, his four friends, and
the old wise mentor (Lovelace) are heading to the edge of the world as
they know it. They're caught in a snow blizzard. The six penguins are
shown in almost a dark silhouette as they struggle to move forward. The
fading red light of the sun provides faint illumination. As the
penguins are pushed back by the blizzard, they lean into the wind and
keep going. It's almost like something out of a Kurosawa movie. And
that's all it is. Just one shot of the blizzard. But it's beautifully
done. Never seen anything like it in an animated film.

By the end of the film, my initial reservations about the film were
completely washed away. Disregard the lame trailers and see it for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally saw this on Sunday when it previewed in the UK (out on full
release Friday). The cinema was packed with kids ranging from babies to
teenagers. Our group had kids from 3-15 in it as well as the parents.
We all absolutely loved it; what I thought was so good was that the
kids in the party all reacted according to their ages. The little ones
just thought the penguins were cute and the chase scenes etc were
thrilling. But the older ones thought the film had a deeper message and
really enjoyed it.

I would normally be fairly bored at a kids' film and have just gone to
take the kids - but all the adults were fascinated the whole time. We
all agreed that it was easily the best animated movie of the year. I
would recommend it for any age of kid. The audience in general
obviously loved it judging by the laughter but by the enthralled
silence at the dramatic parts.

Most families obviously consist of children of different ages - so it
is not easy to find a film that appeals to teenagers as well as 3 year
olds. This one did - an had the adults enthralled as well. I am not
surprised that it beat Casino Royale at the Box Office in US 2 week
ends running.

The green message was great - I think it is really important that
children should be aware of not littering etc, respecting the planet,
from a young age. Having said that, I'm not sure the kids really got
that message but it might have had some effect on the older ones.

Have read some stuff on here saying kids should not be taught liberal
values or not be made aware of them. Liberal values like tolerance and
fairness etc. The film didn't promote those values more than a lot of
kids' movies but even if it had I can't imagine why anyone would be
worried about that so I'm not going to give it serious consideration.

The film I went to see was basically a really exciting adventure story
with excellent acting - you really felt for Mumble - he wasn't just a
stock character. I thought Elijah Wood did an excellent job in that
role. Quite a few people on the internet are asking - why use such
famous actors for Happy Feet - why not have an unknown voice cast?
Obviously having a very big name cast of A listers costs far more and
so reduces the profits - at least that might appear to be the case.
Here is one reply I found - "some of the famous actors out there are
famous (and expensive) for a reason- they're good at what they do.
Elijah Wood really is pretty amazing at playing a sympathetic lead;
Nicole Kidman has a fantastic singing voice to go along with a sweet
stage presence...." The visual effects were really breath-taking,
probably the best animation I've ever seen. But the film also had an
intriguing story with some depth - it wasn't just a bland cutesy film.

I strongly recommend it for children, especially when you think of all
the predictable rubbish that Hollywood often serves up for family
films.

Up-date - I am very pleased that it won the Oscar for Best Animated; I
thought that it was clearly the best animated film of the year - and
also I was pleased to see the Academy award originality and depth as
opposed to a pleasant but rather bland, mix-as-before Pixar product.
<|_=00=_|>
Happy Feet, directed by the man who gave us both Babe: Pig in the City
and Mad Max, is just the kind of feel-good animated film that works on
a few different levels; it'll make you laugh, it'll make you cry, and
it'll inevitably, unquestionably, make you tap your toes or bounce your
leg, right there in the theater. It's charming and exquisitely
detailed, and it succeeds where it really counts: It makes you really
feel for the lovable lead penguin, Mumble (voiced by Elijah Wood).

Mumble is an unfortunate penguin, you see, because was born with no
singing ability, and in his penguin tribe one attracts a mate through
the use of song. The poor flightless bird can only look on helplessly
as his fellow hatchlings croon their little hearts out. Amazingly,
though, Mumble can tap dance, a big no-no in the penguin community.
Soon, with no heart song to guide him, Mumble isn't permitted to
graduate from school, to the chagrin of his Elvis-like dad (Hugh
Jackman) and his songbird-like mom (Nicole Kidman).

Mumble heart belongs to the best singer in his age group, Gloria
(Brittany Murphy), but without the gift of song he can't hope to woo
her. Worse, with the penguins' food supply running out, some of the
other birds begin to blame Mumble's foot-tapping, that somehow he is
angering the great god Guin. The sad-sack penguin is then drummed out
of the penguin corps, shunned for his lack of song and strength of
feet, and he runs into another penguin colony, one that uses pebbles to
woo their females instead of song, and makes new friends - a
Latino-sounding quartet that's high on life, full of zest and pizazz
and charisma, everything that Mumble's old group isn't.

Then Mumble hears from some predator birds of mysterious "aliens" who
probe and attach tags to their victims. Mumble thinks these aliens
might have something to do with the lack of fishies for everyone to
munch on, so he and his new pals head off on a Quest to find these
aliens and ask them to stop stealing all the fish.

Some of the scenes are beautifully imagined, including attacks by sea
lions (quite harrowing, actually, until its denouement), vultures, and
killer whales, not to mention every time Mumble and/or his posse leap
off a cliff and slide down the side like avian sleds. Or through ice
tunnels. Or through the water itself, shooting like streaming jetliners
with mile-long contrails. Gorgeous animation.

At its heart, the movie is about how it's okay to Be Different. It's
about how older folks sometimes hold prejudices that are as illogical
as they are insulting, and how they'll often pass along those
prejudices to their children, sometimes through direct actions and
sometimes by dint of their inaction when wrongs are being perpetuated.

Robin Williams takes on four roles in this movie: the Narrator (where
he's excellent and not at all hammy), Ramon and Cletus (two of the
feisty new penguins), and Lovelace, a self-professed penguin guru to
whom penguins go to have their problems solved. On the one hand,
Williams is delightful doing what he does best, improvising rapid-fire
comic patter to get laughs; on the other hand, he's Robin Williams, and
although there are differences between his voice characterizations,
they all bear a strong resemblance to one another. As with most
animated films, the movie is well-cast; Jackman is particular has an
appealing Southern drawl (ironically, he and Kidman are Aussies playing
penguins with southern accents).

In the wake of the phenomenal, surprise success of March of the
Penguins, Happy Feet makes your heart soar from start to finish. It'll
be very difficult not to shed a tear at the mistreatment of Mumble by
his peers and his elders, and it'll be near impossible to thoroughly
enjoy this dazzling animated offering.
<|_=00=_|>
Tap-dancing penguins could never have been pitched if the mega-hit doc
Marching Penguins (2005) had not caught the imagination of every
breathing human. Only this time around Happy Feet is not a doc but a
high-class animation (from the director of the very humane Babe) and
much more anthropomorphic than Marching Penguins because these are
tap-dancing penguins.

Besides the themes of individualism and environmental destruction,
Happy Feet's special effects take animation as close to 3-D as could be
possible in a 2-D medium. One scene with frolicking penguins careening
down a mountain has the sight and sound of rapid descent so authentic
as to make me cringe at each turn for fear of flying off the snow into
the sky. The colors are luminous and the long and helicopter-like shots
stunning enough to make you feel you're watching IMAX.

Mumble (voice of Elijah Wood) has no singing voice, so he can't sing a
"heart-song," the signature croon of a male to attract a female for
life. But as Nature frequently compensates, that boy can dance. A
hard-to-accept-it dad (Hugh Jackman) laments, "It just ain't penguin."
The adventures of this hippity-hop outcast bring him to a band of
diminutive Latinos headed by a savvy Ramon (Robin Williams), who helps
him to find his inner heart-song in his feet and eventually the source
of fish depletion (the "aliens" are a familiar race of buccaneersus).

Along the way Mumble finds soulful love with Gloria (Brittney Murphy),
a young lady strong in song and belief in Mumble. Speaking of song,
much of the score, while replete with pop standards from the likes of
the Beach Boys and Sinatra, adapts several gospel tunes to accentuate
the theme of a savior being rejected by his own kind.

Happy Feet is a happy film that features cutting-edge CG while it
teaches young and old about tolerance and talent. This is the season
for the tuxedo crowdshaken and stirred.
<|_=00=_|>
Rarely do I enjoy animated films these days: I find the animation
(mostly computer generated) to be colorful but banal, and the action
angles are selected by the programmer's eye, not the way a natural
observer would have seen the shot (like we saw in classic cell
animation of years past). "Happy Feet" is different. The combination of
rotoscoping (now advanced motion capture), intense attention to detail
and organic POV make this film extraordinarily enjoyable to watch. The
sound quality was top-notch, and the music loads of fun for anyone with
a pulse. The character voices from Robin Williams, Elijah Wood, Hugh
Jackman, and others was perfectly matched to their characterizations.
Savion Glover's performance as Mumble's ecstatic feet was not only good
as a an animated fanciful Emperor Penguin, but also valid as a fine,
skilled tap dancer; one of the finest. The continuity was good,
impressive editing, and the message clear: celebrate our differences,
adapt to change when necessary, and don't be afraid to take on
challenges, even when they seems insurmountable. That's a great message
for anyone at any age.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie set the bar at a new level for animation. This is a great
companion piece to "March of the Penguins". (In fact, you should see
"March of the Penguins" before seeing this one.) While the stock
animated movie script still seems be 'cute-yet-quirky animals on
quest', this one pulls it off better than most.

Arguably, the film makers tried to cram too many songs into the
soundtrack. And the story didn't need to be as long as it was but the
overall environmental message was good.

In the end, you'll look how the choices of our 'modern' lifestyles
affect the rest of the world.

This movie is definitely worth the watch -- and a discussion with your
kids afterward.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of movie that conceals deeper depths and vividly
exhilarating emotion overall.

First interpretation: "Ok, it's a movie about a penguin that dances and
has trouble finding a mate. How profound can this movie be?" Then the
movie revealed themes I never thought they would accomplish such as
Religious fanaticism and Human's destruction of the environment.

It reminded me of 6th Sense because it was so twisted yet taught a very
important moral lesson.

Robin Williams is the highlight of the movie, his 2 characters are both
well portrayed and well voiced.

Highly recommended. It made me want to go out and save the penguins.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, I enjoyed this movie and don't regret having gone to see it. I
feel like the animators, actors doing voices and Savion Glover (hope I
spelled that right!) wasted some of their efforts on an
inferior-quality script.

I admire the environmental theme, but felt like it was being shoved
down our throats .. with no real solutions suggested, either. Some
portions of the script were not explained well .. like how on earth
Mumbles got back from the zoo to his family. Okay .. and why can't
Mumble molt correctly, and why does his face look different from all of
the other adult penguins? That's never explained, either.

I laughed and smiled my way through the first half of the movie, and it
felt like the second half dragged on endlessly and made little sense.
:-< I was expecting to love this movie a lot more than I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I really appreciated that this movie was as adorable as it was. If you
are looking for a movie that will make you want to laugh and cry, and
will definitely have you thinking (about taking dance lessons & about
the world as it is now) then this is the movie for you. While the movie
has some dark turns, it tackles the environmental issues that the whole
world is being confronted with in a way that is neither overbearing,
nor too old for children. Not only did this movie make me want a
penguin of my own, but it made me want to help our world stop over
producing, and start preserving. More importantly, if you want to take
kids to see this movie, its perfect. There's a good chance they will be
waddling like a penguin for a week!
