
A surprisingly intelligent suspense/horror film. Notice the dual title
I gave to it? Yeah, that's because it takes elements from both to make
a much better movie. I'm really surprised they canceled the critics'
screenings for this because I honestly think it would get good reviews
from quite a few critics. Maybe I'm wrong.

Either way, it starts off in post-Scream slasher mode before kicking
things into gear. It quickly takes on the trappings of the urban
legend/parable/whatever that the title is derived from, with a group of
spoiled rich kids deciding to trick their private school into thinking
there's a killer on campus. Trouble is...there actually might be.

The two leads, Julian Morris and Lindy Booth are both actually very
good. Booth, who did almost nothing in the Dawn of the Dead remake,
shines brightest, mixing girl-next-door charm with a lying,
manipulative alter-ego. And it makes sense because her character uses
the former so she can accomplish the latter.

Another surprising stand-out is...Jon Bon Jovi? Yeah, the guy can
actually act. He skirts the line a few times but he's definitely
believable as an English teacher. His story arc is also kind of funny
when you consider his career, and what that likely entailed during the
'80s. So once again, not a stretch.

The only flaw I could see with the movie is that it seems a little
calculating. At points, it seems like it's intentionally trying to
avoid teen horror clich√©s. For example, a victim is being chased and
instead of running out a door, he tries to trick the killer into
thinking he has. Smart. Probably too smart for a high school student,
but at least it's a change from the same run, scream, hide, run again,
knife to the throat routine.

Speaking of that tired old routine and the rating it usually causes,
this is probably the first time in years where I actually felt a PG-13
rating was warranted. Making this an R horror movie would've killed any
semblance of logic. Here the violence isn't necessarily what's supposed
to frighten you. Human nature is. Their lies are what bring about the
conclusion, which is infinitely darker than anything Jason Vorhees has
ever done.
<|_=00=_|>
We saw the movie at an early preview, and had no idea what we were
getting into. At first, Cry Wolf seems like it's going to be a
traditional, straight-forward slasher movie, but soon you begin to
realize that there are layers within layers, and the result is a movie
that's increasingly suspenseful and intriguing from beginning to end.
It would be highly unfair to give away the plot. It's appropriate only
to say that each of several of us was surprised by the ending. Most of
the actors are talented unknowns, with a couple of established actors
(Jon Bon Jovi, Anna Deavere Smith) artfully used (Bon Jovi in a major
role, Smith in a minor one). The movie cleverly weaves in current
technologies (especially instant messaging) in a way that heightens the
suspense and is sure to enhance its appeal to young audiences. Great
production values, cinematography and editing -- all elements
contribute to a movie that's one of the best of its genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Avoid suspicion. Manipulate your friends. Eliminate your enemies.
That's the name of the game that these fictional students play on
campus, and on a bigger level it's the name of the game they're playing
with the audience. Well, except for the "eliminate your enemies" bit.
Though there were some annoying chatters that I wish could have been
eliminated from the theater.

Working with a minimal budget and a no-name cast (except for Bon Jovi
and Gary Cole), director Jeff Wadlow has shown us, just like last
year's Saw did, that when your ambition is bigger than your pocketbook
then you can still create an extremely entertaining film. This isn't
quite as frantic and intense as Saw, but I have no problem admitting
that it sucked me in and forced me to thoroughly enjoy it.

Get ready to bait your pole for a little red herring fishing because
this movie's teeming with 'em. If you don't mind being manipulated as
you try to guess who the killer is then you should have a fun time. I
thought I had it figured out several times, and within the last 10
minutes I finally did guess what was going on ... somewhat. There was
another small twist at the end that kind of caught me off guard. The
movie is constructed slickly enough to convince you that you've got the
mystery solved, but the twists are just subtle enough to throw you off
the trail and reveal that you're not as smart as you think you are.

I get tired of people complaining about PG-13 horror movies. "I want
lots of cussing! I want lots of gore! I want nudity!" Really? Well, I
want a decent story that I can sink my teeth into and follow with
interest. I want an element of surprise. I want dialogue that doesn't
rely on ye olde "f" bomb as an uncreative crutch. I don't want to be
seething with anger over a stupid plot twist that makes no sense in
retrospect to the rest of the movie.

Cry_Wolf succeeds on each of these points, and if you keep in mind the
limitations that come with such a small budget and remind yourself that
there are no Oscar winners in this cast, then you should get your
money's worth. If you're looking for a gore-soaked bloodbath with
topless women running all over the place then you're probably just
going to troll the message boards and complain about how horrible this
movie is, so just save us all your whining and go watch a Chucky movie
instead.

THE GIST 

Cry_Wolf is not a slasher movie that is focused on how many deaths the
killer can pile up. It's more of a mystery that is concerned with
keeping the audience guessing for 90 minutes. I would've liked a little
more tension and a few more scares, but I tip my hat to director Wadlow
for a fine effort on such a small budget.
<|_=00=_|>

I just came back from a screening for 'Cry Wolf.' I must say, at first
I thought it was pretty predictable, but then it takes a cool twist
that made me stop and think. Great re-telling of the fabled story of
the "Boy Who Cried Wolf," this story has a fantastic set of characters
headed by Julian Morris, great performance by Lindy Booth, and followed
out with good supporting characters played by Bon Jovi, Jared
Padalecki, the beautiful Sandra McCoy, and several others. Without
giving anything away, I'd recommend anyone who likes good
guessing-thrillers and fun jumpy scenes, to go see this movie . . .
when it comes out, of course. Good story, good settings, great music.

<|_=00=_|>
Saw it at a screening and was surprised at how much I liked it and now
I have to see it again because the ending was so shocking, from memory
it holds up...I can't think of any holes, have to go back to be sure.
No gore, but really well done suspense. It's been a while since there's
been a good suspense film. At the beginning you think it might be
another "Scream" but it goes deeper. They expect the audience to be
smarter! Great script! The acting worked, in particular Lindy Booth and
Julian Morris. The score was different which made it more interesting.
It's really hard to imagine in this day and age they made this for $1
million dollars! I absolutely recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised about this movie, I expected a slasher with some plot
that would be an interesting way to kill some time and entertain myself
(I get passes, working at the movies has its advantages). In the end, I
was shocked to see what kind of movie Cry Wolf is.

First off, the movie goes out and establishes the characters and in the
end twists the words 'believe' and 'lie' extremely well and it'd be
hard to go in depth without spoiling it for you. The ending also has
2-3 twists that are extremely well performed, also the acting is solid
to.

One complaint was it was PG 13, but if you see the movie, YOU'LL KNOW
WHY THE MOVIE IS PG 13 AND WHY THEY Didn't GO TO IN DEPTH IN THE
KILLINGS.

In the end, see Cry Wolf, it is way better than what you think it was
going to be and you'll like it.

I guarantee it.

********
<|_=00=_|>
A group of friends at Wesley, a rich upscale high school, play a game
called cry wolf every night. The game was created by the group's leader
Dodger (Lindy Booth) who marks one of her friends as the liar with a
red marker and it's up to the rest of the group to figure out who is
the liar. One day Dodger and the new kid at the school Owen (Julian
Morris) decide it will be fun to make up an entire lie about a
murdering serial killer loose on campus. Owen and Dodger go along with
the idea and send a mass email to everyone on campus letting them know
that a killer by the name of "The Wolf" is murdering people on campus.
But it isn't long before this little joke turns into a real threat that
might cost everyone involved in the joke their lives.

Three words can be used to describe this film clever, suspenseful, and
enjoyable! I really enjoyed this film and I didn't see it coming at
all, I expected something mediocre at best when walking into the
theater. While the marketing for this film is misleading and makes this
movie seem like another brainless teen horror slasher flick, I assure
you it's not like that. While I wouldn't call this movie 100% percent
original, I would say that this movie is a pretty fresh idea with a lot
of originality. This movie is great for a few reasons, the first reason
is because the idea behind it is pretty new, the second reason is that
the movie keeps you on the edge of your seat with suspense, and lastly
the film keeps you guessing. I love movies that make you keep you
thinking and just when you think you know what's going to happen, your
proved wrong. This film contains a lot of twists! And I haven't seen a
movie that kept me guessing all the way till the end in a long time.

The acting for this cast of newcomers is actually pretty good
especially for the genre at hand. I really enjoyed Julian Morris's
character Owen; he played the part very well and he was very
believable. I also really enjoyed Lindy Booth who was excellent as
Dodger, she had such a controlling power about her and she really
brought it out on screen. Also I have to mention that she was
incredibly cute! Also the other surprise here was Jon Bon Jovi who
actually can act and sing which is always an incredible pair but he was
good as the sleazy journalism teacher. There are several others to
mention here and that would probably take far too much time to list
them all but they were all good at the roles they played.

"Cry_Wolf" was directed by newcomer Jeff Wadlow a recent USC film
graduate. I must say that I liked what he did with the film. He knew
how to build the suspense and capture the character's fears and
excitement. I really liked some of the camera shots especially the
whole collage thing when all of the people started to read the email
about the serial killer on campus. Nice work there! Also Jeff co-wrote
the film with Beau Bauman and I must say the film was a pretty fresh
idea and I loved the whole idea behind the film considering it seems
like an idea that could happen now with computers and cell phones
everywhere.

So to sum it up, "Cry_Wolf" is not what the trailers lead you to
believe; instead it's a suspense thriller with good acting, a semi
original story, and a great ending. The movie contains several twists
that keeps the audience always on the edge of their seats asking the
question "What's going to happen next?" It might not be an Oscar worthy
film but it's a damn good thriller to say the least. It keeps you
guessing and interested from start to finish and what more can you ask
for from a mainstream Hollywood film? 

MovieManMenzel's final rating for "Cry_Wolf" is a 8/10. Buy the big
popcorn and sit back and enjoy the suspense.
<|_=00=_|>
wow! all i can say about this film is that it will go beyond your
expectations. cry_wolf is amazing. i know we have all seen the trailers
and thought of it as a teen slasher thriller with no real substance.
this movie is full of substance and style. cry_wolf is a classic
rendition of the boy who cried wolf with a little twists and turns.
this movie has it all. some jumpy scenes, shocks, a little humor, fine
women. its overall a great experience. go see it and you will wonder
"why do people see this film so poorly when its in fact a great film?".
unlike the Emily Rose crap movie, this is a horror film with a purpose:
to entertain the self as well as to teach us all not to lie. because
who will believe the liar even when they are telling the truth? nobody!
which is why cry wolf has a purpose. the real surprise of the movie was
how its LOW budget of a million bucks produced such a great film while
there are Michael bay films costing 122 times as much and they are
sorry excuses for action thrillers when THIS is the poster child of
thrillers with some mystery and a hint of horror. the ending will
surprise and Jon Bon Jovi will impress. that is all
<|_=00=_|>
cry_wolf is without a doubt one of the best slasher movies i've ever
seen. and i've seen hundreds of them. director jeff wadlow claimed he
researched the horror genre intently before making this movie, and it
really shows. cry_wolf is one of the smartest, scariest, and sexiest
slashers ever created. with a diverse, likable cast, the characters of
cry_wolf prove to be people you can relate to -- and people you would
love to hang out with. and not only that, but the characters are
extremely intelligent. you won't find yourself screaming, "don't turn
on the light!" or "don't go down there!" this time around. the
characters are just like us -- regular, smart people -- who use their
common sense to try and survive. and the performances given by the
actors and actresses are very impressive. from the hotheaded tom (jared
padalecki) to the moody regina (kristy wu), the stars of this film
really gave it their all, and you can tell. this movie is a lot of fun.
it really makes you jump a lot. and it feels so new and refreshing.
this is a movie that will never get old, even fifty years from now. it
will still fit right in. as for the killer, the wolf is terrifying. i
never get scared of movies, but i feel really intimidated by him. this
isn't like scream. the killer isn't a joke. he doesn't make you laugh.
he is pure horror. every time he comes onto the screen i feel the fear
pounding inside of me. as for the music, the soundtrack is incredible.
the perfect blend of alternative, rock, punk, dance, and hip hop. and i
wouldn't dare spoil the awesome twist ending for anyone. go see it on
September 16th and see it for yourself. you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
From the visionary director of Manual Labor and Catching Kringle comes
the ultimate in bloodless terror! 

If anaemic shocks fused with telegraphed twists and sub Scream
shenanigans is your idea of horror movie heaven, then Cry Wolf will
drive you into a frenzy!

Set in a boarding school for bratty rich-kids, the storyline deals with
the fabrication of a Serial-Killer-On-Campus scare-story by a group of
dopey students. After passing it off to the rest of the school as the
never-ending-truth via e-mail, they come a cropper when a real mad
knife-man comes-a-knocking. Doh! 

Following some weak-kneed thrills and wishy-washy attempts at horror,
we arrive at a super-unshocking, super-silly denouement with some
hypocritical moralising thrown in for good measure.

In all fairness, the material does have a whiff of potential and in
more capable, creative hands it could have been a good piece of trashy
fun. But with butterfingers Jeff Wadlow behind the wheel, it never
stood a chance and he ploughs this particular vehicle headfirst into a
sewage-tank.

Spearheading the cast of teen-androids is the stunning non-entity that
is Julian Morris, an actor so lacking in distinction, charisma and
screen presence, that he makes Orlando Bloom look like a modern-day
reincarnation of Spencer Tracey. His balsa-wood like delivery and
rigor-mortis-from-the-neck-up expressionism, hasn't made me laugh so
much since Madonna made an ass of herself (yet again) in Swept Away.

This young 'thesp' must have friends in very high places to keep
getting the rate of work evident on his CV. Why producers and directors
are still casting him in leading-man roles is a mystery bigger to me
than that of UFO's, Jack the Ripper and the Loch-Ness Monster.

Morris' ineptitude in front of the camera is matched wholesale by
Wadlow's behind it. With an insistent use of bleached into oblivion
film stock, his visuals are washed out to sea taking any blood & guts
(real or metaphorical) with it and damning every inch of celluloid with
an aesthetic so bland and vapid, that it makes the colour palette of
your average Hollyoaks episode look like it was blueprinted from the
Wachowski brothers' SpeedRacer. 

The Uzi-fire editing (no doubt deployed by the front office after
viewing the finished product) cuts everything up so aggressively, and
into such sloppy small pieces, that nothing on show gets more than a
split nano-second of screen time to breathe before it wilts and dies in
a hotbed of arrested non-development.

A laughably miscast Jon Bon Jovi in the role of a school teacher, and
an accent-wandering walk-on part by Gary Cole as Morris' father (you
can do better than this sir), bang the final nine-inch-nails into the
coffin of a stiff that is yet to see a sequel. Phew.
