
First, the positives  Colin and Hugh are still hitting their marks.
Even though he might not know why, Mark positively adores Bridget.
Colin gets that and twinkles, melts and warms in all the right places.
Same goes for Daniel he's drawn to his Bridge for some inexplicable
reason. Hugh Grant really ought to be looking for a patent for that
mojo he works so well. All of the original actors are back as Bridget's
parents and her "dating war command" of pals and all have a natural,
easy chemistry that works. But, the negatives, they are a-plenty.

Biggest problem here was the complete tone change. In the first film,
we were on the ride with Bridget...seeing things through her eyes,
groaning as she put her foot in her mouth again and cheering for her to
finally get it right. However, in this movie, it feels like someone
stuck her up on a stage and spent 2 hours throwing pies and tomatoes at
her cause it seemed real cool. She's not in on the joke here, she IS
the joke. Her few extra pounds are no longer just a part of the package
 they are the end-all of her worth as a person. It feels like the
folks behind this film don't even LIKE the character  they just think
it's real cool to humiliate her as often as possible. It doesn't even
look like they bothered to send Renee to makeup or wardrobe  she (as
Bridget) was pleasantly plump in the first film, but never dowdy. The
character is downright frumpy in this movie with a perpetual case of
bed head and clothes that look like castoffs from Mayberry. And Renee
plays into it with her acting choices  Bridget was frazzled in the
first movie but still retained her dignity most of the time. She's a
perpetual victim in this one, though, and even though Renee is still
cute as a button and incredibly endearing, some of Bridget's spark is
gone.

What happens after the happy ending? Couple realizes that they are each
real, flawed people. And the movie makes it seem like Mark is at that
point  never tries to change Bridget, never gets angry and her
constant mishaps amuse more than annoy. But, as each of Bridget's
tantrums unfolded, I kept asking myself why in the WORLD the man was
still there. Bridget's keen on him but doesn't trust him. She likes to
be with him but is suspicious of his actions without any real cause.
Now, we know she's an insecure character and feels like she's not
classy enough to fit into his world. And if the movie built from that,
maybe we'd have a different story. But the obstacles they face are
external. The characters never make decisions on their own  something
or someone else makes them feel a certain way or forces them into a
course of action that decides what will happen next. And Bridget's
reactions almost make it seem like somehow, over the course of the last
'six weeks', she's regressed to a girl in the schoolyard stomping her
feet when her boyfriend does something she doesn't like.

Another problem  the utter lack of subtlety. Why include one fat joke
when 3 or 4 plus a butt shot can fit into the scene? Why spend most of
the movie dropping hints about a reveal when you can beat the audience
over the head with it in one of the final scenes? Why have Daniel make
one joke about stealing Mark's wife when he can drop another one 30
minutes later? Oh look, matching Christmas jumpers  how cute. Most of
the funny in this movie comes from certain 'episodes' as opposed to the
dialogue. I loved the ski trip and Bridget's 'magic mushrooms' in
Thailand. But, when the characters are actually talking to each other,
they just aren't that funny. Most of the jokes are reruns from the
first movie that feel stale. The naughty jokes are kicked up a notch
but everyone in my packed theater, including me, either grimaced or sat
stone-faced through most of them. Note to filmmakers: dirty has to
actually BE funny to be funny.

This feels like a movie about a woman made by men who think wet
clothes, girl-on-girl action and butt close-ups get it done. I read
some interviews that said that Renee would only do a second film if it
took care of Bridget and held up the standards of the first. I almost
wonder if someone slid her this script on the first day of shooting as
a rewrite once she'd already signed on the dotted line. This felt like
a bleached, harsher version of the first the warmth is gone. I know
there was a different director and I really don't think the new kid
gets why Bridget was/is such a phenomenon. As much as I was looking
forward to this film, I wish they'd never done it.

Oh, and also, as a P.S.  if I was a Thai woman right now, I'd be suing
Working Title and Miramax for defamation of character for their version
of 'Fun with Stereotypes'.
<|_=00=_|>
First rule of comedy: Be funny.

But the makers of "Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason" don't bother with
such trivial matters. Not when they've deluded themselves into
believing that merely bringing back Renée Zellweger, Colin Firth, Hugh
Grant and a few others would automatically make the sequel funny, too.
They were wrong.

The 2001 original was funny and charming. It had verve and wit. Bridget
(Zellweger) was normal, as were her dilemmas and crises. She was
plucky, resilient, but never a fool. We identified with her. Daniel
(Grant) was delightfully caddish, Darcy (Firth) properly funny. 

The sequel squanders a tremendously talented cast, none of whom seems
to have a clue what to do. I don't know if they're wholly to blame -
they're stuck in a dud. Although again based on Helen Fielding's novel,
this has none of the original's wit or zip.

Although the sequel begins only four weeks after the original ended,
Bridget, Darcy and Daniel have become caricatures of themselves. Their
behavior's cartoonish. You know this film's in trouble when Grant
simply slums it as a rake and Firth sputters about as if he's wondering
how on earth he wound up agreeing to make this horrible picture.

The film relies completely on Zellweger's star power. She's game, but
gives quite possibly the worst performance of her career. Bridget's
become a daft twit. She's lost any semblance of intelligence. With
nothing genuinely funny to fall back on, director Beeban Kidron gets
Zellweger to simply waddle about the place trying to eke laughs out of
us. Unfortunately, Zellweger's shtick is barely amusing and gets
tiresome very quickly.

The idea of laughing at a large, buxom lass while she pratfalls her way
through a horrendous film must strike a chord with some women. At the
screening I attended, I sat next to four women who did not laugh -
heck, I didn't hear even a chuckle from them  throughout the entire
film. Yet, they applauded at the end, as if they'd just discovered
their anthem film.

It took four writers - Fielding, Andrew Davies, Richard Curtis and Adam
Brooks - to write the drivel for this movie. They never find the right
tone even once. Every joke is telegraphed or straining to be funny.
This utterly unnecessary movie seems, at times, like an extended music
video. But even the songs are predictable. During two scenes - at the
Bangkok airport and an idiotic fight scene in a fountain - the music
was so loud, it completely drowned out the dialogue. I don't know if
the theater was to blame for this problem, but I suppose it was a
blessing in disguise given how insipid much of the dialogue is.

This film is devoid of any novelty or humor. By the time we get to an
excruciatingly long and unfunny prison sequence featuring yet another
sorry moment that tries desperately to be funny - a chorus of Madonna's
"Like a Virgin" - this film has gone so way off the tracks, there's no
hope of it ever getting back on. This is a great example of a film
being made because of star power and the need to make money, regardless
of whether it was good or funny. 

The sad thing is some terrific independent films are struggling to be
released wide right now. But tripe like Kidron's film gets widely
released a week early. "Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason" is lousy
storytelling, rotten acting and awful film-making.
<|_=00=_|>
The problem with a sequel is that expectations are high - particularly
after a film as successful and engaging as BJ1. I knew already that the
new film did not adhere to the second book so I didn't expect to be
making comparisons. However, this movie was frankly ridiculous.

My problem with the film in main was that the character of Bridget was
over-parodied. She is not supposed to be so much fatter than everyone
around her, or as scatty and ungainly as she is portrayed in the film,
which makes it harder to believe that there are 2 men and a woman after
her.

The first film's success was due to the protagonist being charming and
endearing - she made "human" mistakes (for example, the "blue soup")
and fell for an unsuitable man who cheated on her. We felt sorry for
her but also felt that she was funny and kooky and wanted her to "get
her man" in the end. In this new movie she is frankly annoying, and we
are almost incredulous that Mark Darcy should want her at all. They
have nothing in common, the reason they break up at the beginning is
not believable in any way, and the reasons they reunite are just as
difficult to comprehend.

I also felt that the characterisations were not as layered as in the
first movie, and the stupid lesbian twist didn't seem to make any
sense.

It is a shame that they were so close yet so far with this new film,
because in a way it negates the success and hilarity of the first one,
which was a classic, intelligent portrayal of a 30-something singleton
looking for her man. BJ2 is just a badly-made slapstick about a fat,
unattractive girl who looks a complete mess and doesn't seem to have
any self-awareness whatsoever. Sorry to be so harsh, but with the
weight of the various names attached to the film, expectations were
high.......
<|_=00=_|>
But, oddly enough, I still liked this version of The Edge of Reason. 

It's hard to put my finger on why -- because I'm not quite sure why
some of the book's original plot lines were ommitted, and because I
thought the Rebecca subplot was gratuitous -- but I did like it. 

The first book was not-so-loosely based on Jane Austen's "Pride and
Prejudice." The first movie left a lot of that in, and even included a
lot of "inside jokes" for those of us who are familiar with that
delightful book and the filmed version starring Colin Firth as
Fitzwilliam Darcy. "The Edge of Reason" was not-so-loosely based on
another Jane Austen novel, "Persuasion," but any overt Austen
references are completely wiped out here.

The character of Giles Benwick is based on an Austen character named
Benwick who has recently lost his fiancée, but that is the only Austen
reference from the book left. It's a shame, too, because I liked that
particular subplot in both Austen's "Persuasion" and Fielding's "Edge
of Reason."

Given that I've complained about several aspects of this film, I'm
still rather surprised that I liked it. Could it be because Bridget is
still Everywoman and because Mark Darcy is still the Perfect Man (and
probably because he's still played by the ever-dishy Colin Firth)?

Who knows. All I do know is that it was cute, it was funny and it was
entertaining. You can't ask for much else.
<|_=00=_|>
Having now seen The Edge of Reason (for the first time), I am prepared
to spend a moment responding to the inevitable criticism (inevitable
because I've already read hints of them on the boards and in some
reviews). WARNING, MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD....

1) They didn't stick close enough to the book. *** Ah, isn't this the
mother of all complaints? In fact, many other complaints are just a
variation on it. But here goes. First, there is no way they could have
put in everything from the book (and most complaints are about parts
that were omitted), because the movie would be way too long. Second,
most things in the movie actually were from the book, or a variation on
a scene from the book (e.g. Bridget's parents' wedding, in lieu of Jude
and Vile Richard's wedding). And what's so bad about some new stories
for Bridget? It's just more Bridget to love (not unlike her wobbly
bits).

2) Yes, but what about the interview with Colin Firth? *** Haven't we
heard this before? Obviously they left it out because Colin Firth was
already in the movie as Mark Darcy. Also the book The Edge of Reason
was written when Pride and Prejudice was slightly newer on video in the
UK and was part of the contemporary pop culture of the day. (Although,
I admit it still has a very strong fan base!) There are other cultural
reference in the book, Edge of Reason, that just couldn't be put into
the film without dating it (e.g., the death of Princess Diana). (P.S.,
Pride and Prejudice fans should listen very carefully to Bridget's
comments to Shazzer when returning from Thailand.)

3) Why'd they bring back Daniel Cleaver? He wasn't even in the book!
*** Aha, but you're wrong there! First, there's Bridget and Daniel's
phone conversation about where Germany is located. Then some time
later, Bridget accepts a dinner date with Daniel, and even buys condoms
"just in case." He comes to Bridget's flat and makes a pass at her
before Bridget comes to her senses and throws him out.

Granted, they expanded Daniel's role quite a bit for the film, but I
happen to love his sleazy charm. He is funny, funny, funny, and Hugh
Grant is perfect in the role. (Look for a little jab at Hugh Grant in
the Thailand scenes.)

4) So many scenes seem to be a rehash (or should I say retread) of
similar scenes in the first movie. *** There are indeed events which
are similar to things that happened in Bridget Jones's Diary. But they
are not presented as something new and unique - instead they are an
opportunity to look back nostalgically and compare how Bridget's life
has changed. (If you haven't seen first movie - heaven forbid - they
can be new and unique.) For example, the silly Christmas jumper that
Mark Darcy wore at the first turkey curry buffet has a whole new
significance this year.

5) What, another Darcy/Cleaver fight? *** Oh come on, you love it! (I
did expect Pat Benatar's "Hit Me with Your Best Shot" to break out at
any time, and was quite disappointed that they didn't choose it as
background!) The fight is fantastic, and totally in context with this
movie - there is a good reason for it.

6) Bridget already had her happy ending in the first film, why do we
need another? *** Aside from the fact that Helen Fielding wrote a
second book? The end of Bridget Jones's Diary said "the beginning...";
not a promise of a sequel, but a reminder that life doesn't end with a
kiss in the snow. This is the story of how a long-time singleton copes
with being part of a couple (not very well).

7) They messed up the time sequence, and Bridget's age. *** Yes they
did! My biggest pet peeve, in fact. Six weeks after the kiss in the
snow should have been Valentine's Day, not a turkey curry buffet. And
how can Bridget still be 33 at the end of another year? Not to mention
that her "tombstone" says she was born in 1972....Come on, I'm three
years older than when Bridget Jones's Diary came out, it's not fair
that Bridget is a year younger! (Okay, I am not going to defend this
flaw in the movie. But I suspect that most viewers will not be as
troubled by it as I.)

So yes, the movie's not perfect, and it's not everything that a
die-hard Bridget Jones fan would want. (I don't know that any movie
could live up to those celestial expectations.) But it is v.g., and
those who are Bridget fans will probably want to watch it many times.
Those who just want to see a funny movie will like it too. Those who
prefer explosions and gun shootouts should probably go elsewhere.

Since this is a review, I should also mention that Renee Zellweger was
better than ever as Bridget (when I read the books, I now picture her
as Bridget); Colin Firth was absolutely gorgeous, of course, and
managed to crack his haughty Darcy-esquire facade with melting smiles
on a number of occasions; and Hugh Grant was the very portrait of a
posh cad.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that, now, even romantic comedies have gone the way of
cookie-cutter action flicks in their being too formulaic.

Spare yourself watching this movie. The gist is this: the new Bridget
Jones is a blubbery, stupid, awkward woman. She goes on various trips
and social outings, never failing to fall down, make stupid comments,
spill things on people, put her makeup on wrong, etc etc ad nassssseum.
Think slapstick comedy. Think the Curly from the 3 stooges, getting
bonked on the head for the 212th time. It gets old fast.

In the first movie, I think a lot of girls could sympathize with her
flub-ups and awkwardness because Bridget was also witty and
intelligent, in spite of her shortcomings. Only this time around she's
pretty much just a waste of space.

Oh, by the way, there isn't actually any plot development for the
movie. Just endless scenes of Bridget making a fool of herself.

They always say sequels are worse than the original movie, but I've
never seen one so much abysmally worse than the first.
<|_=00=_|>
Why anyone made this film is completely beyond the edge of reason. I
was absolutely fuming when I came out of the cinema and was desperate
to give those robbing b*****ds a good spanking for making me pay TEN
EUROS! to see a film which just blew me off the hook... and onto the
sharp edge of my temper. Ooooo, how dare they make a really good and
entertaining film and then con us into thinking that the second one
would be just as good. Robbery. Absolute robbery. I am a huge fan of
romantic comedies but this one was just...(what's the word?) terrible.
Please don't see this film. I'm begging you. You will regret it for the
rest of your life. I think I'll give this film a generous 2 out of 10
because I am in a kind and caring mood.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh the expectations are high and the studio is bumping up the release
date but what about the film? In the case of Bridget Jones: The Edge of
Reason, it was inevitable that the freshness and sheer pleasure of a
funny, heartfelt love story of Bridget Jones's Diary, would be a hard
act to top much less follow. While entertaining in its own way and
filled with enough charm and wit to keep things moving and interesting,
it is a step down for the Helen Fielding heroine. No Oscar nominations
are forthcoming this time.

Not a couple months have passed as our favorite British journalist
(played with gusto by Renee Zellweger) is dating her dream beau, Mark
Darcy (Colin Firth returns as a noble steed). Slowly, our Bridget
notices a young female clinging to her man on a regular basis, and with
life full of its insecurities, doubts and suspicions are thus born.
Enter handsome Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant is as dashing as ever) who
wants to rekindle an earlier romance with Bridget who wonders if he has
mended his philandering ways. That pretty well sums up the main
storyline. There are a few other minor story threads such as Bridget's
parents getting remarried, but they are few and far between.

Zellweger is always appealing even as an overweight, accident-prone
romantic. Fans may be a bit startled to see her appearance after a few
years of terrific performances in slimmed down roles. Firth, who was
handpicked by author Fielding, duplicates his steady, straightlaced
lawyer while Grant spices the sexual scenery with his bad boy ways. You
will recognize returning supporting characters from before including
James Broadbent as Bridget's dad, a role that is minimal at best.

While the screenplay has some nice bits of dialogue and one-liners, the
whole thing just doesn't come together as a satisfying whole. There are
no real surprises here in the story even though it contains a couple of
mild shocks in plot line. The direction is not as crisp as before-this
time Beeban Kidron(Thanks for Everything Julie Newmar) takes the helm
in not quite inspired fashion. Where is original director, Sharon
Maguire? Maybe frequent scribe Richard Curtis would have been perfect.
Just one of his story lines in Love Actually is as good as or better
than anything in Edge of Reason.

Perhaps the biggest problem with this film is that it is a chore to
find anything truly engaging or to feel any sympathy and concern for
Zellweger's character. In addition, there was an absence of really
funny situations without seeming to be contrived. Maybe that's being
picky, but that's the level of satisfaction Bridget Jones's original
incarnation has engendered.
<|_=00=_|>
I fell in love with Colin Firth when I saw "Another Country" for the
first time, then the amazing "Tumbledown" to arrive to "Apartment Zero"
when I decided that Colin Firth was, without question, the best actor
of his generation. If I got involved with Bridget Jones at all was
because he was in it. Bad move. He is not really in it, maybe a virtual
replication of him but not him, not the actor who gave life to the
British soldier in the Falklands of "Tumbledown" or the lonely guy who
allows the devil into his flat because he looks like a movie star in
"Apartment Zero" or the intellectually and politically alert young man
of "Another Country". "Bridget Jones 2" is a pitiful mess. The first
Bridget was also a sort of mess but wasn't pitiful. Things get worse
all around. The quaint sub title of this thing is "The Edge of Reason"
The edge of what?
<|_=00=_|>
This really is a soulless piece of film. The filmmakers have taken the
few things that were funny and/or original from the first, and have
over-exploited them to lengths of insane proportions. Bridget is too
stupid. Darcy is too nice. Cleaver is too much of an asshole. Pile
these horrendous characters between countless shag jokes, and what is
quite possibly the most absurd story of any film this year, and you're
left wondering what the hell happened to the original that was actually
relatively witty, and at times, dare i say it, clever. Some of the
sequences in this film are as painful as having your eyes injected with
heroin, and if you pay ANYTHING to see this, you are being ripped off.
Avoid.
