
The original 'Alfie,' released in 1966, was considered a revelation for
its frank and somewhat dark portrait of the life of a cockney rake, and
can now be seen as somewhat prophetic, as it predated (and in some ways
helped to introduce) the era of 'swinging London' and the sexual
revolution. The 2004 'Alfie' seems to exist for no other purpose than
to dress Jude Law up in a hip wardrobe and allow him to wink, smirk,
and sigh endlessly at the camera as he sleeps his way through a series
of likable women he doesn't deserve. There isn't much of a narrative
structure here, and while Law is an engaging screen presence, Alfie is
a totally unsympathetic lout who deserves his eventual comeuppance.

It's too bad that Bill Naughton wasn't able to update his original
story more effectively, because the film is gorgeous to look at.
Despite a few unnecessary bits of cleverness (billboards with odd,
art-nouveau messages like 'desire' and 'wish', a lot of mod-ish split
screen sequences with still photography, etc.), the cinematography is
superb, Law looks dashing in his GQ hipster wardrobe, and the
ladies--Susan Sarandon, Jane Krakowski, Nia Long, Marisa Tomei, and
newcomer Sienna Miller (whom Law apparently dumped his wife for during
filming)--are ravishing. The soundtrack is also superb, made up mostly
of new tunes by Mick Jagger and Dave Stewart (of Eurythmics fame).

The biggest problem here is that times have changed since the original
Alfie: sexual and gender politics don't allow for a protagonist who
bed-hops and deceives women with impunity to be cast as heroic or even
remotely sympathetic. In the end, the film seems hollow, like a nearly
two-hour long visual fashion spread (interestingly, 'Vanity Fair'
editor Graydon Carter has a cameo in the film). Beautiful to look at,
but ultimately it's just pretty trash.
<|_=00=_|>
Not a lot of people know this, but Terence Stamp first played the role
of Alfie on stage over thirty years ago. He was then offered the film
role, but turned it down. His flatmate, a struggling up and coming
actor, tried to convince him to take the part, but Terence was not
budging. And so his flatmate took the role. His name, was Michael
Caine, and that film, Alfie, spring boarded the young actor to be the
most famous cockney in the world. Of all Caine's films this ranks
alongside Get Carter and The Italian Job as his best, and so why
re-make it I hear you cry! Hollywood had a go at remaking The Italian
Job and Get Carter but only came out with turkeys so big you couldn't
fit them in your oven. But instead of remaking a Michael Caine film
that wasn't good (THE SWARM, BLAME IT ON RIO!) Caine's golden classic
Alfie has had the makeover, with pretty boy Jude Law bought in to ask
what it's all about. Well for those who don't know what it's all about,
Alfie's world is women, pulling them and dumping them. Sounds a little
cold, but that is Alfie, a bird puller extraordinaire who lives for the
conquests, but soon bores of them whenever commitment rears it's ugly
head. Of course Alfie has to be bought down a peg or two, and this
happens as a result of another conquest, which has further reaching
consequences than Alfie can realize. But should Alfie have been dusted
down for the 2004 audience? Well the answer is no. But why? Well, to
analyse this we have to go back to the beginning and what Alfie was in
Caine's day. Alfie was a man about town stuck in the poor end of
London, sleeping his way through a never ending supply of 'birds' while
fighting his working class shackles. Back then women were not the
powerful sex they are today, at least not on the cinema screen, and
were happy to get Alfie's dinner and scrub his floors. Now lets look at
Jude Laws Alfie, living in present day New York, and sleeping with a
seemingly never ending amount of stunners, who all seem to be getting
as much out of him as he gets out of them. And so what's he got to
fight against? Not his surroundings (he's in glamorous Manhattan) and
his job isn't that bad (still a driver, but look at the perks), and he
even likes the kid of one of his girlfriends. And so he's a nice guy,
and there is problem 1, bang goes Alfie's cold side. And so what we are
left with is a man who lives in New York and finds it hard to commit.
Hardly a rare phenomenon. Problem number 2 is the original Alfie
movie's use of the shock factor. Denholm Elliott turning up to do a
back street abortion was enough to make some walk out the cinema in
1966. In this film the subject of abortion, although delicately
handled, has lost it's cinematic impact, which is no doubt due to the
three decades that has passed between films. And so we come to problem
number 3, the films flaw being that the Alfie of today is simply not as
relevant to the Alfie of yesterday. Today we have 'Sex and the City',
empowered women, whom one can't help but feel would eat Alfie up alive.
Indeed, the film would be more realistic if the lead was a female,
although that would send traditionalists (like myself) running up the
nearest tree. The makers of this re-make obviously think that illnesses
has to be stepped up, and so while Caine's Alfie was given shadows on
his lung to make him give pause, Law's Alfie gets a lump on
hiserm'Big Ben' (I hope to God that's not the new word for it) But
what about performances? Well, Law as Alfie is fine, giving emotion
where its needed, although his performance does not bounce along like
Caines did. When Caine spoke to the camera, immediately breaking the
fourth wall and bonding with the audience, it was the height of cool,
when Law does the same it feels cheesy, and like cheese, it soon starts
to grate. Susan Sarandon, as the sexy older woman, certainly fulfils
her characters description, while Sienna Miller gives a promising
portrayal as a young women who looks like a young Marianne Faithful
(circa 1965) minus her Rolling Stone. And so the blame for the films
failure cannot be left at its actors doors, nor its director. The film
is simply a victim of its time. Alfie belongs in the sixties, when the
world (or London at least) was swinging. Right now the only thing
swinging is the cinema doors, and that's because I've just left.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, what a powerful film the original Alfie was. What amazing
creativity, themes, and structure it had! It was enjoyable to watch
because Caine has this uncanny ability to bring you into his world. He
is so calm and "everyday" that Alfie's words pull you into the screen
and allow you to become involved with his life. I only wish this could
have been true with this disastrous remake. Jude Law attempts at every
angle possible to bring that pizazz that Caine brought to the screen,
but ultimately fails in every attempt. While Caine, in the original,
felt like he could have represented you or I, Law in this film, feels
like he is ripped from the pages of Vogue or In Style magazine. You
know that point in a magazine where you feel that the ads featuring
models wearing clothes that you will never fully appreciate seem to
clutter the pages instead of articles? Well, that is exactly what this
remake felt to me. Instead of a powerful story being the central focus
of the film, we were bombarded, nearly drowned, in model-esquire images
of the people of NYC and how only the very beautiful are attracted to
the very beautiful. Coupled with cinematography that feels like a
super-budged GAP ad, I could only squint as my stomach hurled with
disgust.

"What's it all about, Alfie?" A simple question that is the central
focus of the first film, while in this pathetic remake, it is never
disclosed until the very end. Why did this film suffer? First of all,
Jude Law is no Michael Caine. He doesn't have that "every man" sort of
appeal that dragged me into the film. I never really felt like he was
talking to me, but instead trying to maneuver his way into the mantra
of the female audience. That was a huge problem for me as well, in the
original, Caine talks to the men of the audience, while in the remake,
Law attempts to gain sympathy from the females in the audience. Law
just cannot seem to capture the ideals of Alfie. He is a womanizer, I
know that, but there are more layers to this character than just that.
Sadly, Law brought none of them out. Even at the end, I never felt as
if there was a final moment of realization or symbolic referencing.
"What was it all about?" The original, I could tell you, for this
remake, it seemed a bit fuzzy and dislocated. I don't know what it was
about except a man not committed to anything glides through life with a
smile somehow still located on his face. Perhaps it wasn't just Law's
work, but also the ladies that accompanied him. These are women that
the average man will never meet, or ever encounter. So, how could we
relate to the story? Marisa Tomei, Susan Sarandon, Nia Long, and even
Sienna Miller seemed to give glamorized renditions of hurt women. The
original was about Alfie, but several believe that the staples to the
story were the women that surrounded him. I can honestly say that the
staples to this film were not the women, because Jude Law hailed top
billing. Did the director even see the original? 

I would like to address the issue of whether this was a remake or just
an "updated" version of the original Alfie. My answer is that it is a
remake that crashes considerably when you place the two films together.
My biggest issue with this remake was that it addressed nothing. In the
original film, it was apparent from the first 30 minutes of the movie
that Alfie was a troubled man who carried trouble on his back and
deposited trouble to each one of his encounters. One might even say
victims. Was it a sign of the times or something that is inherent in
the female species that lead to the destruction of so many hopes and
dreams? The 60's were a time of floundering economically and
politically for most of the world. Did Alfie seize on the free-sex,
free love atmosphere that became prevalent during that time or were his
predatory skills developed much earlier in his life? Alfie wasn't
strong enough a character to go into self-destruct alone. The weakness
of his character insisted that he bring everyone down with him. Just as
in the animal kingdom the predator preys on the victim that is
unsuspecting, most vulnerable and most importantly the victim who
cannot hurt him. He must always stay insulated from the outside world.
Yet, in the remake, I saw nothing of the sort. I saw random chaos where
Hollywood regained our sympathy by making our lead character this "can
never be mad at Jude Law". Not living in NYC or in a place where models
walk around on the streets, nor a frequent viewer of Vogue magazine, I
didn't find the appeal of subtle themes of this film at all. Alfie goes
through the motions as he does in the original, but there is
considerable chunk of life missing.

Overall, this was a very disappointing remake. The music just didn't
seem to carry that same charm that the original did, nor did the rest
of the cast. This was not an art film, but instead a Hollywood creation
that lacked the appeal of the original. It was created to boost some
sex appeal for Jude Law instead of showing this radical vision of our
world. Alfie is genuine in the original, and quite plastic in this
remake, which ultimately hurt the overall impression of the film. Those
that say that you cannot compare the original and this remake together
because they are two separate films, I would completely disagree with.
This Alfie was a remake and was poorly put together while the original
was, "powerful, humorous, yet pointed story".

Grade: ** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
In the words of Sean Penn "Jude Law is one of the best actors we got" I
agree, so what the hell is he doing? The film is so ill conceived that
I'm not even going to talk about it, but I'm going to talk about Jude
Law because I love him. I'm also considerably older than him and I love
movies and great actors and on the screen, great actors can also be
great stars and when great stars are also great actors then you have
Spencer Tracy, Montgomery Clift, Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, Johnny Depp,
Daniel Day Lewis even Sean Penn and a few others. Jude Law had, from
day one (a few days ago) all the elements that made the above mentioned
actors what they were, what they are, what they always will be. I'm not
about blame the failure of this film on Jude Law, no, of course not but
"Alfie" comes out on a year when we've had several Jude Law movies all
of them bearing Jude Law's name, but just the name. Not a glimpse of
the Law of Mr Ripley or Wilde not even Gattaca. In "Closer" he is very
good but he couldn't afford not to be. Great words and Mike Nichols.
No, I want to see Jude Law in dangerous projects with unpredictable,
brilliant, lyrical, powerful directors. I want to see him in all his
glorious promise. Is that too much to ask?
<|_=00=_|>
What's it all about? (opening line from the original-movie 1966)

"Alfie" is a remake of the 1966 British film that made an international
star of Michael Caine. It takes a story very much associated with a
particular time and place -- London in the swinging '60s -- and
successfully transplants it to modern-day New York City. The cockney
lothario played by Caine has been turned into a working-class British
émigré played by Jude Law, who makes Alfie a bit less cockney and a bit
more self-aware.

Alfie's a smooth talking Londoner in New York who does his very best to
avoid succumbing to the dreaded 'c' word commitment. Along the way,
we're introduced to some of his ladies on the go  Dorie, Julie, Liz
and Nikki, to name but a few. 

Like the earlier "Alfie," it's the story of a sexually promiscuous man.
Alfie (Law), a chauffeur, lives in a small Manhattan apartment and
dedicates his life to seducing women. Talking directly into the camera,
and preening with a self-satisfaction so complete as to seem a form of
innocence, he expounds on clothes, the proper application of cologne
and the various rules he employs in his libidinous pursuits. His goal,
it seems, is to have sex with as many women as possible but to get
close to none of them.

Each one starts off as a fling, but somehow manages to influence
Alfie's life. He slowly starts to realize that he is actually alone and
that there is more to life than what he has done so far. 

Like the earlier "Alfie," the new version could be called a cautionary
tale, about a way of life that leads to the existential confusion
embodied in the famous catchphrase, "What's it all about?" 

Anyone we know in it? Jude Law is fresh and funny as Alfie, with just
the right amount of smug attitude. The stunning Sienna Miller is the
beautiful but 'damaged' Nikki, and Susan Sarandon sizzles as the sexy
older woman, Liz. There's also Marisa Tomei (Julie), Nia Long (Lonette)
and Omar Epps plays Alfie's best friend, Marlon.

Would I recommend it? Definitely. Although remakes do not usually come
through smelling of roses, this one does. It's fresh, colourful and
funny. Jude Law is magnificent, introducing us to a slightly warmer
side of Alfie than Michael Caine.
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the worst movies that I have been subjected to in a
long time. It didn't quite know if it was: A) a chick flick because of
Jude Law consuming the screen every single moment B) a manly flick
because of all the hot women running around half naked.

C) Or just a hodge podge of doomed relationships/one night stands.

The movie didn't quite know what it was and left us in the same
perturbed state as its main character. 

Jude was adorable, the NYC life was fun to watch, but overall the movie
lacked substance. And not to mention the lack of social awareness when
it came to the women in the film. 

Stay away... unless of course you have an undying love for Jude Law.
But after sitting through this your love will wither away!
<|_=00=_|>
Remakes are always a problem for the critic, whether or not he or she
has seen the original. Here we have an American remake in 2004 of a
British film made by Lewis Gilbert in 1966, itself an adaptation of a
stage play by Bill McNaughton from the early 60s. The creative process
is not easy to track in these circumstances, even though the DVD I saw
has two sets of audio-commentary by the director, Charles Shyer, and
others.

In this version Alfie is still the chirpy cockney Lothario, but
operating as a chauffeur in lower Manhattan rather than London. His
women are characters derived from the 1966 film, but glamorised
somewhat. Alfie's philosophy, delivered face to camera, as in the first
film, is the same  love 'em and leave 'em.

As Alfie, Jude Law channels Michael Caine in the 1966 film but puts his
own stamp on the role. Jude is exactly right for the part and makes
Alfie both repellent and sympathetic. We are left hoping he will mend
his ways but thinking there's not much chance of that. For Alfie, there
is no answer to the question posed in the song "What's it all about?"
The music, written and performed by another hardy survivor of swinging
London in the 60s, Mick Jagger (and others) is a pleasant feature, and
Alfie's girls are undeniably attractive. (During filming Jude Law and
Sienna Miller became an item  that's method acting for you.) Charles
Shyer tells us in the audio-commentary that he set out to be stylish
and there's considerable use of split-screen technique and some fancy
cutting. Using Manchester, Liverpool and London as Manhattan as well as
Manhattan itself for location shooting must have caused some production
problems, though most of them seemed to have been overcome in
post-production.

This 2004 version did decent business in the UK but bombed in the US.
Why? The hero is a Brit, but then so is James Bond. The women are all
accomplished actresses and Susan Sarandon delivers a standout
performance. There is plenty of relatively tasteful humour but no happy
ending, just "life goes on". The pace is fast enough and Shyer slaps on
plenty of "style", but what we are seeing is the 1966 film lite. A
period piece set in the wrong period. Elaine Pope, who co-wrote the
screenplay with Shyer, was well aware that women are now less inclined
to be doormats for feckless men like Alfie, and adjusted the female
parts accordingly, but ultimately we have a movie 40 years out of its
time.
<|_=00=_|>
... as I haven't (FAR too young when it originally came out!), and can
judge the movie without preconceptions, it's actually quite, quite
good. From others' comments, I believe this should be called a
reconception rather than a remake - and face it, if they followed the
original, time-bound character/plot, it really WOULDN'T work today - so
there is no sense in decrying that this isn't slavish to the Caine
version. On its own terms, the movie is very stylish, with excellent
cinematography, directing and editing, and the acting is top-notch
across the board [For Broadway aficionados, look for Tony winners
Jefferson (I Am My Own Wife) Mays as the Doctor and Hairspray's Dick
Latessa as Joe]. 

Law is disarmingly charming as Alfie, and that goes a long way in
selling the character, and making his attitude towards women somewhat
tolerable. Of the women, Sarandon {looking incredible for 58! ... and
delivering her final coup de grace with devilish elan], Long, Krakowski
and especially (surprisingly?) Law's current squeeze Miller all make
strong impressions. Tomei is OK, but is really neither attractive or
special enough to justify Law's interest in her [and his fixation on
her young son is a little creepy/unbelievable for such a womanizer].
The substitution of the interracial dalliance with Long for the
abortion is a stroke of genius, as it will probably have the same
'shocking' effect for some in the audience. Yes, the direct address is
a little jarring at times, but is necessary and DOES follow the
original.

On the minus side, the Mick Jagger/Dave Stewart music DOESN'T work, but
Joss Stone's remake of the title song is effective. If you can forget,
or better yet, haven't seen the original to compare this version to, I
think you will find it a very entertaining, relevant movie (compared to
most Hollywood remake dreck). I wouldn't even be surprised to find this
garnering quite a few Oscar noms (given this year's weak field) come
the end of the year... Give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Jude Law for the first time on Broadway on an adaptation of a
Jean Cocteau play. He was a stunner. You could see his future even from
where I was sitting, one of the cheapest sits at the back of the
theatre. Then "Gattaca" a poor film that Jude Law's presence alone
awarded some sort of cult status. Other films with the likes of Jeanne
Moreau, David Cronnenberg, Jenifer Jason Leigh. All good stuff, all
seem to confirm my original impression. Then, "Wilde" and "The Talented
Mr. Ripley" and I thought -- Amazing, we haven't had an actor like
this, ever. Forget about his beauty, if you can, and concentrate in his
mind boggling range. In Mr. Ripley the film never recovers from his
death and in "Wilde" you understand, you actually understand Oscar
Wilde, losing absolutely everything for him. He introduced the only
entertaining moments in "Artificial Intelligence" and then, something
happened, too many films and not too much judgement. In "Cold Mountain"
he didn't have the epic scope that, in my modest opinion, the character
required. In "Road to Perdition" he indulges in a shallow show off
performance overshadowed by a theatrical costume and rotten teeth. But
"Alfie" is, quite simply, unforgivable. Not a moment of truth, not a
moment of charm, not a moment of beauty. The three elements that
brought Jude Law up this moment. I left the theatre more than
disappointed, I left angry because I recognised the symptoms of a
potentially, mythological career, in real danger. I hope Jude Law sees
the light, unless he is satisfied with the Troy Donohue award. If
that's the case, well, he already got it. "Alfie" got it for him.
<|_=00=_|>
If Western culture is a serpent eating its own tail, it follows that it
will eventually choke on its own feces.

Put simply: the original version of Alfie was a Snake Feast. The
watery, transparent 2004 Alfie, another redundant remake from the
Selected Works of Sir Michael Bleedin' Caine, is Snake Sh*t.

One of the British box office hits of 1965, Alfie is a snapshot from a
moment in history, a perfectly framed view of the Sexual Revolution
from a working class perspective. It was both a highbrow sex farce and
a populist kitchen sink drama with some wry observations about social
class and convention thrown in, all held together by the magnetic
presence of its star on the rise. Alfie's like a timeless character
from Thackary who spends more than half his screen time justifying his
appallingly rakish behavior to the audience; a vain, cocky yet insecure
and neurotic Lothario attempting to escape responsibility and pain
through a series of doomed sexual misadventures. He emerges at the end
of the film unrepentant and only a little wiser, turning to the camera
with the immortal tag-line "Wossit all abaht?" It's that timelessness
the makers of Alfie '04 attempt to capitalize on in their grotesque
carbon copy, updating its East End setting to lower Manhattan but with
the female archetypes - or "birds" - left intact. There's the doormat
girlfriend, the frustrated wife, and Susan Sarandon updates Shelly
Winters' loud, vulgar 50-something man-eater as a slightly more classy
2004 model. A pointed comment on the eternal sexual condition? More
like an industry that's fat, indolent, and believes the general public
have a long-term memory no longer than six months. One can only imagine
its audience are cocktail-guzzling Manhattan matrons with a yen for all
things British, like Bridget Jones or Sarah Ferguson, and Jude Law's
posterior. True, there are more shots of Law as Alfie "on the job" as
it were, but those are mighty big shoes he's walking in. Jude Law comes
across affable and worldly and tosses in the odd Caine-ism, but on
final judgment is a pale streak of snake sh*t not worthy to fill Sir
Michael's Italian loafers.

Maybe that's the problem. Caine's Alfie is cold, calculating, and at
times utterly repellent. One dubious conquest he refers to as "it" is
set to work as his personal slave, and then cast off for showing too
much affection. Alfie '04 attempts to sanitize him, sand off some of
the uncomfortable un-PC angles. Alfie 65's moment of truth arrives when
the dumpy middle-aged wife of his hospital chum asks Alfie for a
backyard abortion (Alfie only slept with her, mind you, to help his
lunch go down). As he stares down at his miniature reflection, Caine's
face is a contorted mask of pure sorrow. Law's moment of truth in Alfie
'04 - no plot spoilers here - is so wide of the mark it's an insult.
Strip the character of his tics and grimaces and cutesy cockney patter,
and ladies and gentlemen, I give you the Invisible Man.

Even more offensive is the use of 60s pop art icons to evoke the
original's aura of cool. A Chet Baker poster, Alfie's scooter - in fact
the entire coke-smeared, boots and fur coated, Nico-meets-Julie
Christie coquetry of the Nikki character, played by Sienna Miller. The
Clash once sang "No Elvis, Beatles or the Rolling Stones in 1977" and
the same can be said about Alfie. That Golden Age of popular cinema in
the Sixties could actually be about experimenting with style and
breaking cultural taboos; not so in 2005, where surface passes for
style, smarminess is a stand-in for genuine wit, where sh*t is
champagne and sacred ground is something for film industry Burkes and
Hares to plunder at will.
