
Am rarely moved to comment on what others say here, but Sarah from
Canada's mindless and cynical response to TWO BROTHERS can't go
unchallenged. Though far from perfect, I found this movie to be
exceptionally entertaining on all accounts. Sarah claims there's no
story, no characters, no moral ... on and on. Well, what she says is a
complete crock: there is a story: it's about the two tiger brothers who
are taken from their jungle home. The two main characters are not
human, and I guess the fact that they don't have dialogue presented
quite an obstacle for Sarah because she doesn't seem to have followed
their story and its moral/ethical significance. Since the movie plays
out like a fairy tale, realism here is not the point, hence the broad
human characterizations. Rather, the most successful parts of the film
allows us to view the world from the animals' eyes, and in doing so we
experience their feelings, memories, and needs. I found this to be
entertaining and at times quite moving. The film makers ennoble these
tiger characters with such power and respect, I find it utterly
mystifying that anyone could miss this as being the major point of the
film. Please do not let negative comments like the ones from Sarah keep
you from watching this terrific movie.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW!!!! OK, I will confess up front that I am prejudiced. I am a
wildlife artist with a lifetime love of tigers and have even had the
awesome opportunity to play with 3 10-week old tiger brothers. I loved
this movie, not just for the obvious reasons of being a tiger loving
artist that loves all animal films anyway. This movie was making a
statement regarding how these beautiful creatures are being hunted to
extinction!

How sad to have to hunt down and kill an animal to prove your manhood
or to use them for mistaken ancient beliefs where their bodyparts are
used for medicine. Granted they aren't harmless, but men continue to
encroach on the wild areas all over the world without thought of the
animals and ecosystems, of the beauty they destroy. 

No, I'm not an overzealous environmentalist belonging to Greenpeace or
PETA, though they have the right idea...just a little too far left for
me. Still, looking at the awesome, beautiful world God has given us,
its sad to see animals hunted to extinction for no reason other than to
show everyone that you can pull a trigger. Ooooooooooo, big amount of
talent for that.

This movie, besides its message of the dwindling numbers of tigers left
in the wild and why they are endangered, was an absolute joy. How some
of these shots of the tigers, as they grew, were obtained, I have no
idea. But it was great, in fact, I love it, the tigers got billing over
the human actors!

It's the story of 2 tiger cubs that are captured when a hunter kills
their father and they become separated from their mother. They then
become separated from each other, one going to a hunter and eventually
ending up in a circus run by people that seem to think animal cruelty
is the only way to train an animal. The other winds up in a family with
a loving little boy, but eventually outgrows his welcome and ends up in
a private zoo, also being mistreated. The tigers meet again, when for
some sick idea of sport, the 2 tigers are set against each other in a
fight to the death. Then the brothers recognize each other. I won't
ruin it for you. Just know that it does have a good ending! 

I was impressed that there is a tag at the end of the movie, one that
is quite true. In the early 1900's there were over 100,000 tigers in
the wild, now there are less than 400-200. Three species are already
extinct. See the information from a website:

Bengal Tiger  Panthera tigris tigris Siberian (Amurian) Tiger 
Panthera tigris altaica Sumatran Tiger  Panthera tigris sumatrae
Indo-Chinese Tiger  Panthera tigris corbetti South China Tiger 
Panthera tigris amoyensis Javan Tiger  Panthera tigris sondaica 
extinct since early 1980's

Bali Tiger  Panthera tigris balica  extinct since the 1940's

Caspian Tiger  Panthera tigris virgata  extinct since the early
1970's

Watch the movie, it will warm your heart, make you smile and perhaps
even shed a tear. If you would like to help save tigers, in the wild or
aid the ones that needlessly wind up in rescue organizations. Thank God
for them! People seem to think it would be cool to have a tiger, or
other big cat, for a pet, then seem surprised that they grow into
500-700+ pound meat eaters! I own several house cats...these smaller
guys have a whole lot in common with their 'big' brothers and I have
the scars to prove it. (Not that they are mean, I just get in the way
of their racetrack sometimes) 

Still, tigers are wild animals and not meant to be pets! If nothing
else, even if you have raised one, they don't know their own
strength...just ask Roy Horn of Siefried and Roy fame. I doubt that
tiger meant any harm to Roy, but the tiger sensed Roy was in danger and
tried to carry him to safety the same way she would carry a cub...by
the scruff of the neck. 

That being said...don't try to raise one, but please try to help the
ones in rescue shelters that desperately need the funds to care for
these tigers that can't be released back into the wild. Or help the
remaining few in the wild.
<|_=00=_|>

Two brothers is a uniquely great movie. Although some may criticize it
for the depiction of cruelty to animals, the movie is not advocating
cruelty or teaching kids wrong lessons. You begin to love the tigers
from the very first second you see them on screen, and your heart
breaks every time something happens to them. The movie isn't an insult
to our species, it tells us and shows us how we have wronged nature in
the past, and promotes us to fix our past transgressions. By seeing the
cute (EXTREMELY cute) tigers harassed on screen, kids will definitely
develop a passion for the conservation of wildlife and will develop a
general humaneness towards other creatures. Although some scenes are
disturbing and could scare children, the movie does a good job of
keeping them interested, worried, and warmed in the end. Even though
Guy Pearce delivers another sub-par performance, adults are not the
stars of the film. This movie will definitely play with your emotions,
and some may not be able to handle it, but be assured, the movie may
leave you spent, but it'll leave you blissful. I enjoyed every second,
from the warmth of the playing tigers cubs to the stabbing pain when
any of them got hurt. I spent the credits with tears running down my
face. If you are in touch with yourself, this movie will not
disappoint.

<|_=00=_|>
DISCLAIMER: This is my first movie review, so please excuse me, if it
is not written well, including the fact that my English is not good.

I just finished viewing "Two Brothers". Honestly, I've never expected
anymore to see a movie of that class. 

What do I mean? 

These days there are so much new movies, which is so wonderful, because
so many people now have the chance to express themselves and do a
movie, but not many of them know how to do it. There are people, who do
know and there are people, which do have talent.

I still remember, when I saw "The Bear". Not much, but I do remember it
really got me with it. Years ago, there were really movies, that had
what to offer to the spectator. I still prefer more, the commercial
movies, but do miss the real good cinema.

And so, few days back I was just watching around the rent-a-video club,
when I saw the title. At first, though it is yet another action movie,
until I saw the front cover. These days, adventure movies are rare. The
director's name immediately grabbed my attention and really threw me
thinking. Jean-Jacques Annaud did another adventure? I did not read the
text on the cover, just was thinking to myself... These tigers really
reminded me of "The Bear"... Was it a little nostalgia? 

Whatever it was, it is wonderful. I do not remember myself enjoying so
much, for a long time. The movie is appropriate for most ages, with
good plot. Very slight mixture of this specific old-school fragrance
and modern computer graphic effects. It is so precisely mixed, that at
the beginning You will never realize is it real, You are watching or
computer-made.

In fact, the movie, I think I may say so, is sort of a masterpiece, but
since I am not very competent of the technical details, will not
discuss them, except mentioning just in brief.

Wonderful graphics, exotic views, well mixed sound, good music, great
story, interesting point of views... remarkable.

A thing to notice here, is that it did not made me remember just of
"The Bear". Actually in the beginning I was thinking of "Greystoke: The
Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes". Annaud spend big amount of time,
exploring the relationships of the tigers, the tigers and the people,
the people, the people and tigers. There are some very precisely dosed
moments, showing the two tigers in perspectives, You would really love
to explore. I just love the way he did it!

You will never realize how these 109 minutes will pass around You, so
better stop reading this and go see it!

Have a good time!
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone should watch this movie, it is a touching story. Also, it
portrays a great performances by the Tigers. All parents should take
their kids to watch such movies, it will make them love and care for
animals. It also creates very important environmental awareness too.
The director seems a great person to make both "Two Brothers" and "The
Bear". Both movies are on animals and the tragedies they come across.
And they both make humans empathetic of animals. The two Tiger cubs
were great actors, and made us sad with their helplessness in some
parts. It makes us realise how innocent animals are. Two thumbs up for
this movie!!
<|_=00=_|>
Jean-Jacques Annaud's films always showcases animals doing extremely
amazing things, which is why they are so enjoyable. While this is a
film better seen by children of certain age group, it's not a Disney
product, and parents should be aware of that fact. Some comments in
this IMDb forum criticize the film makers for what they perceive was a
marketing ploy that targeted the movie to small children. Perhaps the
people that promoted the film are to be blamed for that, or maybe Mr.
Annaud was targeting the film for a more mature audience.

"Two Brothers" is a story about two tigers that are separated at a
young stage of their lives, while their parents are killed by people
that loved to engage in this type of hunting. The two little cubs are
about the best in the film as one see them getting in all kinds of
adventures in the first part of the film.

The story behind the animals serves the film as it provides an
accessible background as it illustrates the inter action between humans
and animals. Guy Pearce and Freddie Highmore are seen in the film as
Aidan and Raoul. Freddie Highmore is a child actor with an expressive
face that shows a child of great intelligence without any trace of ego.

As Mr. Annaud proved with "The Bear", he has a good eye for involving
the animals in his stories about them with surprising results.
<|_=00=_|>
OMG this is one of the best movies ever. I LOVE
TIGERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I cried so much for this movie... my face was
all red and I just couldn't stop crying! even for the happy parts... I
think this movie gives out a great message ...(for hunters or people
who actually live in a country where there are tigers or whatever)
...but even if you don't live somewhere near where tigers live... I'm
sure there's something we can do to help and prevent them from becoming
extinct! they're such beautiful creatures!! we should try to save them.
Before I saw this movie I heard that it was crap... I didn't bother to
see it when it was out in the cinema but today it was on TV so I wanted
to see what it was about... I am SO glad that I saw this movie... I
loved it... I wish that everyone could see this movie, and see how
special it is. ~animal/tiger lover~
<|_=00=_|>
Started watching while doing something else & not paying too much
attention, however within seconds, I was enthralled in the
breathtakingly beautiful scenery, the characters, and yes, definitely
the story! The story is there, so if Sarah from Canada doesn't see one,
well, that's her loss.

I found myself talking to the cubs as they were trying to escape the
hunters, roting them on, and yelling, "WOO HOO" when they finally
escaped the danger.

The plight of these animals is all to real, unfortunately. If even one
movie like this can help slow their extinction, then it's worth
watching & becoming more involved with groups fighting for wildlife
preservation.
<|_=00=_|>
Two Brothers starts with the siblings, Kumal and Sangha, and shows how
they are playful and protective of one another. Kumal was the more meek
of the two and Sangha would knowingly protect his brother when in
trouble. After the older tigers were killed (seems the villagers do not
like random tigers hanging out while they are working), Kumal and
Sangha are separated. Kumal ends up in a circus like atmosphere where
he is trained to jump through flaming hoops and such (which actually
comes in handy later in the movie). Sangha ends up, at first, with a
family. Raoul (Freddie Highmore) loves Sangha but is forced to give him
up, due to Sangha killing the family dog in self-defense. It now had
the taste of blood and was no longer safe to be in the company of
humans.

As both tigers became adults, they had led a less than extraordinary
life, both with cruel owners and both ending up in a cock-fighting
environment, where they were forced to fight one another.

To me, the only enjoyable part of this movie were the tigers,
themselves. The people only made it boring and wishing for the movie to
either end or cut back to the tiger footage. I assume the tigers were
trained to do certain things and then pieced together to form a
cohesive story for them. Other footage seemed to be just film of the
tigers acting naturally, which was important for the movie.

Two Brothers was a great children's movie. Some adults would probably
enjoy it as well but it was definitely not made for them. This is not
the kind of movie I could watch over and over but was worth seeing at
least once.
<|_=00=_|>
Two Brothers is a nice family film to watch but it becomes to cheesy to
take by the end. Two brother tiger cubs are separated at an early age
when their mother is killed by a hunter (Guy Pearce). The bolder one is
sold to a circus where his spirit is broken, while the gentler one
fights for his survival becoming wilder and more fierce. When they meet
again as adults, they are pitted against each other as enemies. The
plot is something different then the average kids film yet this film
will probably be more liked by adults. The story may bore kids too much
as its not action packed nor is it an animated film. Granted, there
were some boring spots but those were few and far in between. The kids
may be turned off by the fact that a tiger gets shot in this film. Only
one actually dies from a gunshot but another one is hit in the ear. The
baby tigers are very cute and are fun to watch. The only human actor
worth mentioning is Guy Pearce. He is overshadowed by the tigers but
still does a good job. Jean-Jacques Annaud directs and he does a pretty
good job. Two Brothers has amazing cinematography, probably some of the
best I have seen all year. There's not a whole lot of dialog so kids
may not like that. While it's a beautiful film to watch, sometimes I
felt like I was watching the discovery channel or something. The
running time of 108 minutes could have been cut down as not all was
needed. I was enjoying the film until the end, then it became too
cheesy to like. The brothers managed to met up with each other and they
both manage to escape from the circus. When they successfully escaped
they met up with their mom again and became one happy family. I thought
this was a little too much but it's a kids film so they wanted a happy
ending. I didn't like it though as it could have been a different type
of family film if it had ended a little differently. In the end, this
is a nice film to look at and its slightly above average as well.
Rating 7/10, better then the most recent family film.
