

This first movie of a woman directly come from French television is
based on comparatively classic basis. Albert Dupontel plays the role of
Max, a man who has everything to be happy: a stable job as a
photograph, a ravishing wive (Marianne Denicourt) but little by little,
depression overcomes him so much so that nearly nothing interests him.
One night, during a night of drinking bout, he orders on Internet a
molded doll as tall as him called Monique. It doesn't take him long to
fall in love with her and to look after her as good as possible to the
surprise of his friends.

By reading this summary of the story, it is evident that Valérie
Guignabodet, at least in the first part of her movie was influenced by
"Kennedy et moi" (1999), a film made by Sam Karmann starring
Jean-Pierre Bacri. The latter and Albert Dupontel act the same type of
character and present several similarities. They're both family
fathers. They are sick of their respective lives. Their wives deceive
them with lovers. But at least they find some comfort with their
fathers who live in old people's homes. But especially, they regain
strength thanks to silly actions. If Bacri found taste for life again
because he could get the watch of his shrink (the one that Kennedy wore
on the day he was killed), here Dupontel, his love for a molded doll
makes him happy and Monique doesn't leave Dupontel's friends
indifferent.

Except for the will to show that her main character treats "Monique"
like a real woman, Valérie Guignabodet also directed her movie on the
meetings between Max's friends and "Monique" as well as the
consequences. Through this method we can formulate that "Monique", for
the male characters, is the perfect woman, the one that every man would
like to get which cause their wives' frustrations.

Guignabodet's work is a good one and if she doesn't avoid the
predictable sudden new developments, if her style contains
ponderousness, if the film writing lacks coherence towards the end, her
movie reserves good moments and it often borders on the surrealism and
the politically incorrect. Moreover, the absurdity of the sequences
where we see Max taking care of her lifeless love is enhanced by a
photography with very kitsch colors and the chosen songs give to the
movie a crazy air.

Valérie Guignabodet's career as a film-maker is in a good way as this
globally successfully movie shows.

<|_=00=_|>
I watched the movie yesterday and must admit that this is a pretty good
one, although not the best ever. First of all one of the good arguments
in favor of the movie is the very fact that this tackles the common
issue of midlife depression in a very different way than it usually is
dealt with. Second, the "carpe diem" feeling is very strong. The scenes
with all of Alex's wife's friends coming to see him and convince to
give up the molded doll is extremely funny on the one hand, and added
to this it is sooooo true, so close to what reality would bring such a
situation to ! After all, the movie is all about going blindly the way
you want to, without paying attention to common society safeguards.
Alex does what he wants, although everybody think his having a
relationship with a doll makes him some sort of perverse ans sick guy.
Even more, he eventually decides to take his doll out, and show
everybody that he doesn't feel guilty nor sick. He's even proud of this
relationship with the doll, and therefore proves his friends' and
wife's feeling that their "common normal life" is very good. You'd
first think that he's the one who might consider himself sick, but in
the end everybody around him gets interested into his new silicone
girlfriend, and all of a sudden everybody seem to realize that their
common lifestyle and everyday life is as boring as ALex first
considered his own life. Everybody needs a Monique, that would be the
last word of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Alex (Albert Dupontel) and Claire (Marianne Denicourt) are living a
boring and tedious life after years of marriage. They do not
communicate to each other anymore, and Alex is almost speechless at
home and without motivation and inspiration in his work as a former
successful photographer. When Claire decides to leave him to live with
her sculptor teacher, and Alex, completely wasted, accidentally orders
an expensive and desirable sex molded doll called "Monique", his life
changes completely. Alex falls in love with Monique, making all his
fantasies come true, while his privacy is respected. His behavior
affects the lives of his closest friends and Claire.

This witty and original comedy plays with endured and routine
relationships that are completely exhausted, without communication or
sex life. Alex represents those men in middle-age crisis that keep
their boring and tedious marriage without any further emotions or
dialog, actually accommodated to the situation. Claire represents those
women afraid to give a step ahead in life, balancing between a stable
finished relationship and the fear for new feelings and experiences.
Monique represents the new, the refreshment of a wasted life and the
dream of most "Alexs". The director Valérie Guignabodet shows a great
sensibility, approaching this delicate theme in a funny and neutral
way, never being corny or accusing or defending who is right or who is
wrong in this battle of sexes. One correction: The Worldcup of 1950 was
in Brazil, director Valérie Guignabodet committed a serious research
mistake. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Monique  Sempre Feliz" ("Monique  Always Happy")
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the movie and I find it fantastic. It's all about having the
guts to fulfill your passions, your fantasies, your ideals without
paying attention to what others, society have to say about it. It
proves that counts in love is not the reality, but ideas, desires and,
most of all, faith! I mean, Alex certainly proves some kind of jealousy
for Monique, a silicon doll. it also shows how much love is a personal
construct and let people express their deep ideals. it's not about the
perfect doll-woman; it is about Alex's desired Monique. don't go to see
it if you are one of the 80% of American women thinking that their
neighbors do nasty things and that only they, they aren't. and hold
your moral, duty sense.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just seen the movie, and it was quite a nice surprise for me.
although it contains a lot of Hollywood-style touches, there are plenty
of original elements to offer a comforting change versus the usual
American comedy. without going into spoilers, i can just say that one
must be French to put that much sex in a movie without making it boring
an without letting it be just about sex. actually, the movie presents a
rather common theme - midlife crisis for men - placing it in a rather
forced, yet comedy-creating context. I think one should be more into
the French modern lifestyle to get all the hints, but it's quite
enjoyable even without it. another thing i just have to state is that
Marianne Denicourt is drop-dead gorgeous, and her acting is not bad
either :-). the support cast does the job pretty nice, but every once
in a while you can get that "TV production" feeling, mainly because of
the settings. All in all, a movie that can improve someone's evening.
<|_=00=_|>

The author wrote for TV before but it is her first long-feature movie. Well
it has a lot of what first movies have : good ideas, not so well used.

Maybe the writer/director did not "live" enough to have an indeep feeling of
those terrible matter, love and sex, male and female, human or puppet.

Some parts are realy funny, some others lacks of something.

Some situations can't work but no fictional gift is made to make us believe
to them so... 
I'd say : watchable, could have been much better (or much worst
too).
I'd love to see a such subject writen by a 50 old woman for
instance.
The acting is not bad but the parts are not always well
written.
<|_=00=_|>

After nice French movies like 'Le Fabuleux Destin ...' and 'L'Auberge
Espagnole', 'Monique' shows us that France can also make very bad movies.
There are some scenes very funny in this movie, but they can't make the
people forget the stupid story. The cast are doing their very best, it's a
pity. 'Monique' is not a good movie, that's for sure!
