

After years of warning about global warning, Jack Hall is horrified to
find all his predictions coming true much faster than he could have
imagined. Hail stones the size of footballs decimate cities, typhoons
destroy Los Angeles and New York becomes flooded. As the big freeze
crosses the northern hemisphere, a small group of survivors try to fend
off the cold as the world prepares for a dramatic change in the world
order.

This film may be a modern blockbuster but in almost everyway it is a
1970's disaster movie where an event happens after some build up and we
then spend the rest of the film watching the survivors trying to, well,
survive. In that regard the film carries all the usual problems that
the genre carries but happily benefits from the fact that the effects
are much better than 1970's movies could manage. For this reason the
first hour is great  it has dramatic pace, is involving and looks
fantastic even if we have seen it before in different variations (how
many times has New York been destroyed now?). However after the sheer
global terror is pretty much finished we suddenly become much more
small scale and the film looses much of it's impact and it's pace.
After the initial danger has passed the film uses illogical and silly
plot devices to put the survivors at risk  a cold eye of a storm,
blood infections, creeping ice and wolves are among the problems. While
this is OK on a genre level it doesn't compare to the first hour and it
gets a little dull and plodding at times.

The clichés are all present and correct: the politicians, the upright
scientists, the sacrifice, the daring rescues and so on. It's fair to
say that if you are looking for more than a basic script then you will
be looking in the wrong place here. All this film does is to provide
spectacle and moments of dramatic action  if you want to think about
it then you will only hurt your enjoyment of the action. The film tries
to deliver an environmental message but in a way this film will not
help the environmental movement because it is too exaggerated to be
taken seriously (like the idea of Celtic and Man Utd reaching the
Champions League final  during this season? Please!), however it does
include several surprisingly barbed attacks on the US administration
(could the VP look any more like Cheney?). Just a shame that the film
message is delivered with all the subtlety that Segal showed when he
did something similar in his environmental action film On Deadly
Ground.

The script doesn't really create characters either and it means we
don't care that much about what happens to them in the final hour
(countless millions are dead for goodness sake!). The dialogue in the
first hour is nicely gruff and scientific and very genre but the second
hour is more human and the lines aren't suited for that  not even in
the hands of an impressive number of good actors. I like Quaid and he
is a good lead here, he gets the good scientific stuff and only is
lumbered with the rather silly notion of walking to New York from
Washington. Gyllenhaal must have upset legions of cult fan boys by
appearing in a big budget movie but he does OK with the role (despite
looking too old to be in school). The rest of the cast are fairly mixed
but, as with the genre, they are just filled even if some are good.
Welsh is good even if he was cast for his similarity to Dick Cheney,
Holm adds a small bit of dignity in his role as well as being supported
by the very fine actor Lester in a minor role. Faces like Sanders,
Mihok and a few others don't really matter as they are merely victims
waiting for their turn to be used for dramatic effect.

Overall the first hour of this film is good on a blockbuster level, but
it blows it's wad too early (don't ya hate it when that happens?!) and
is left with a second hour that is right out of the 1970's with all the
weaknesses that that entails. Generally I enjoyed the film because I
was just expecting a big noisy movie to pass a few hours  bad script,
no characters and lots of clichés? Why would I be surprised by that?
It's par for the course and you should not watch this if you know these
aspects will annoy you. As it is, it's an average film but one that is
noisy and spectacular enough to pass muster in the summer blockbuster
stakes.

<|_=00=_|>
Look people, what it comes down to is this: you don't go to an "end of
the world" movie for the plot. You go for the special effects. And I
can honestly say these are some of the best special effects I've ever
seen in my life.

I work a lot with computer graphics, and can distinguish them (AND
miniatures) by sight. This movie blends them seamlessly. The only other
movie I've seen that does that is Lord of the Rings. If you want to see
a movie that makes you believe that what's happening is real, watch
this. If all you care about is plot, there are better choices.

I give this movie a 9 based on exactly what I expected of it.
Mindboggling visuals.

Hope you've got a big-screen and surround sound. You're gonna need it.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film by director Roland Emmerich a great deal. It
is a fast-paced, exciting, suspenseful film filled with wonderful
images, great CGI effects, plausible acting, and even a coherent
script. How realistic is it? I hope not at all, but the director made
the film so that it seems very real and like something that MIGHT
happen. The story revolves around some major climatic shifts that cause
the entire Northern hemisphere to become Artic tundra. New York City is
devastated as are other major cities all over Europe. Dennis Quaid
gives a good performance as a climatologist that predicted some of
these events. We see things through his perspective and that of his son
for much of the movie. The acting in general is good in this film. I
particularly liked Ian Holm's role as the British meteorologist stuck
in the middle of nowhere while these changes advanced. Much of the
credit for the film's success must go to Emmerich. This is easily one
of his best films. He keeps his viewer on the edge of his/her seat
through the entire film. Action is the film's primary objective, but
Emmerich also uses a lot of humanity in what his character's
motivations are, and I for one, enjoyed seeing that side of humanity
rather than what I probably would see under similar circumstances. As a
previous viewer noted, this is a great popcorn movie!
<|_=00=_|>

"The Day After Tomorrow" is a disaster movie, but it isn't a disastrous
one. But if Roland Emmerich really thought he was making a movie with a
message, he didn't quite succeed - to be honest, Emmerich is to serious
film-making as Naomi Wolf is to recommending "Voluptuous" magazine. The
fact that the movie begins with the Twentieth Century Fox logo under
stormy skies doesn't make it any more significant.

Well-intentioned it may be, but the movie's plot takes second place to
the imagery - the opening credits over an icy landscape, the massive
weather systems over the planet, colossal hailstones pelting down on
Tokyo, snowstorms over India, tidal waves - and the numerous effects
houses make it an eye candy feast, especially for people with a grudge
against the Big Apple (kudos to Industrial Light and Magic, Digital
Domain and all the less renowned FX companies involved). So on that
level, it works; the music by Harald Kloser and Thomas Wanker is also a
bonus, being more restrained and serious in its support than is usually
the way with Emmerich movies.

And then there's the script - it has a whole load of characters but
doesn't do much with any of them. Example: Climatologist Dennis Quaid's
relationship with son Jake Gyllenhaal doesn't seem to be as estranged
as it's intended to be, and similarly the friendship Quaid has with a
longtime colleague gets about as much emphasis as the crush his younger
colleague has on fellow scientist Tamlyn Tomita (and the movie pays for
it later on in a sequence shamelessly ripped off from "Vertical Limit,"
which has little of the emotional resonance it should). In fact, all
the human elements - Gyllenhaal's repressed feelings for classmate Emmy
Rossum, his doctor mother Sela Ward's problems with a young patient,
etc - all of them are underdeveloped or just plain undeveloped, and
some moments practically scream "Contrived Climax Ahoy!" 

Those moments are there because "The Day After Tomorrow" doesn't have
an enemy as a natural outgrowth of its story; the elements aren't
really villainous as they have no concept of right or wrong, and the
closest thing to a villain here is the current administration in the
White House, so Emmerich and co-writer Jeffrey Nachmanoff have to
impose a tangible enemy (why else are those wolves there?) on the
proceedings. This does help things from getting totally boring in the
second half, though it's still pretty watchable even then - but if some
more thought had been put into the screenplay, like exploring the
characters or developing the promising ideas therein (like Americans
fleeing to Mexico, or further looks at the Government side), it would
have carried more weight and made the movie into more than an
improvement on "Godzilla." 

As it is, it's a competently done if implausible attention-holder that
wants to be more; that it actually had the potential to be more makes
it a bit of a disappointment, but at least it's a watchable one.

<|_=00=_|>
The folks who actually like this movie are the reason Hollywood makes
very few quality movies any more. If you don't care then why should
they? This movie is so bad from the beginning. Numerous tornadoes
pummeling a West Coast city and there are actually people flying in
helicopters to get a closer look. That's a brainy idea. Buildings
freezing and crumbling yet the people outside don't seem to be affected
so much. The "walk" from Philadelphia to New York? And in record time
no less. I do like the fact that they had the foresight to have
Antarctic weather gear handy for just these occasions. What of the tent
that was able to withstand the chill but not the Empire State building?
Call your local Army Navy store....they really need to stock these
tents. I also found it amazing that any lines of communications were
not really affected, including the under freezing water pay phone. The
only ones who had communications losses were, of course, the main
characters.....ah drama!! I know they were in a library but you think
they could have possibly tried to burn all the wooden tables and chairs
around them? Seems that they would burn warmer and for longer than
books. The acting was horrific, the directing was terrible, the script
was unbelievably bad and the special effects were anything but special.
It certainly rates up there with Godzilla 2000 and Armageddon......it
actually makes Independence Day look like one of the all time greats!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is TYPICAL Hollywood. And by that I mean it's all glitz and
glamour without any substance. Don't get me wrong the special effects
are great (although weather effects are easy to pull off at this
point). But the movie has no point what so ever!!! Whatever little plot
there is, is terrible. 

*Spoilers* 

OK, basically it goes like this Big storm comes, and spreads around
the world in a matter of days threatening humanity with the 2nd ice
age. Storms destroy all the big cities, blah blah blah Since the movie
follows Sam Hall (Jake Gyllenhaal) most of it is set in New York. So NY
gets hit with tidal waves, and then it all freezes over and then you
have everyone stuck in the NY public library. Not bad so far but
that's it. Jack Hall, Sam's father is some kind of weather expert
specializing in Alaska and global warming so he predicts this whole
storm. So when he finds out that his son is trapped in NY he WALKS
(drives to Philadelphia and then walks the rest of the way) from
Washington D.C. to NY in like two days (All during this 2nd ICE
AGE!!!!). No trying to stop the storm or anything he just WALKS. He's
not even trying to save his son because he can't he just walks
hundreds of miles to meet his son. That's it. 

Oh yeah, and during the middle of the movie the kids trapped in the
library in NY must venture out in the 'STORM' for medicine and as luck
would have it (or Hollywood overkill) they're attacked by a pack of
wolves that escaped from the zoo. And the wolves look TERRIBLE. The
special effects for the weather are easy so that all looks great but
these wolves looked horrible. Like these kids were being attacked by
cartoon rejects from 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit?'

They just made this movie cause they could make the effects... there
was no thought put into anything else other than the effects. I've seen
porno's with better story lines.

<|_=00=_|>
I was leery of a heavy propaganda piece on "global warming," but I
still saw this and found that, yeah that's what it was but it was
really more of just a straight adventure story than anything
else.....and not a bad one, at that. The first 50 minutes of this
two-hour film have the "fun parts" where the special-effects dominate.
We see all kinds of radical weather disasters that are extremely
dramatic and entertaining to watch, even if they don't make a bit of
sense.

After the blizzard and sub-zero, unlivable weather conditions arrive
the movie settles down to a young romance and survival story with Jake
Gyllenhaal, Emily Rossum and other people trapped in a library in New
York City and Jake's father, played by Dennis Quaid, walking all the
way from Philadelphia to rescue him. Yes, it's very, very far-fetched -
the whole thing - but it's a fun adventure story with nice people. It's
especially refreshing to see Hollywood portray a father as being so
loving and selfless. The romance wasn't overdone and the young people
were not profane and/or annoying, as so often is the case.

Except for the over-exaggerated and extremely erroneous scare tactics
of this movie, and a ridiculous portrayal of the Vice Preseint of the
United States, the movie works strictly as an entertaining
fantasy-adventure story.
<|_=00=_|>

--WARNING: Spoilers below-- Terrible writing, terrible acting, terrible
plot. One of the worst films I've ever seen. How convenient that right
after Jack Hall discovers the plate breaking away in Antarctica and
right as he presents this to the "Global Warming Conference," all his
predictions begin to come true! Wow, what a coincidence. What an insult
to my intelligence. At least have all that take place >75 years prior. 

 From there the movie gets even more ridiculous, with nothing but plot
devices tossed in an attempt to pull emotions of it's viewers. For
example, Dr. Lucy Hall decides to stay behind with a dying boy because
he can only be removed via ambulance. How touching - he's going to die
anyway, lady, and he has absolutely nothing to do with the film. But
wait, her morals are rewarded as someone manages to get an ambulance to
them despite 13 feet of snow! In a scene involving the President we see
the Seal of the President of the United States displayed prominently
behind him in a random room -- so the target audience would know who he
was just in case the plot got too deep for them.

Then another plot device is delivered as a Russian ship ends up right
in front of the library where Sam and his cohorts are hiding out.
Usually with a plot device you at least try to disguise the fact that
it is nothing more than a plot device. Nope, not in this movie! So
someone has an infection and we need medicine. Well what do you know -
"THERE HAS TO BE MEDICINE IN THAT SHIP!" clearly. And what do you know,
the bottle they need is the only one designated in English. These guys
are very lucky. But wait, some wolves that escaped a holding cell
earlier happen to find the ship many miles away just as the kids are
attempting to retrieve the medicine!! I didn't realize this was a
comedy!

I could go on with these examples for hours...don't even get me started
on the homeless man and his faithful dog. But I think you get the idea.
Do not go see this even for the special effects - you've already seen
them in Armageddon.

<|_=00=_|>

Well for me this film wasn't one I was looking forward to, initially
when I saw the adverts I thought I wanted to see it, but after reading
some blurb about it I was concerned that it was going to turn into the
usual Hollywood 'adventure' drivel...Sadly my thoughts came true.

I thought the movie started well, all the science seemed to be dealt
with in a good and sensible fashion, and you do feel a sense of
impending doom. The early disaster effects are typically top notch,
although I felt a huge chunk of ice falling on someone's head would
have made them bleed! And strangely for a Hollywood movie they didn't
depict their administration as being infallible, which made me think
maybe I was wrong to prejudge the film.

Sadly, things then deteriorate into the typical Hollywood fare. The
hero does everything you'd expect, in the way you'd expect. The good
old stiff upper lipped Brits perform their background tasks and do the
usual (i.e. Die in a research bunker that turns out to have less stocks
of the essentials than a New York library (where can I buy a vending
machine that provides sustenance for 6 or 7 people and a dog for a week
or more?)). 

When the 'hero' becomes all heroic the major mistakes become evident.
We've all touched something ice cold and had our skin stick to it, so
surely someone holding onto to frozen metal with blood oozing out of
their hands would suffer a similar fate (especially considering how
cold it's alleged to be!). They also seem quick to remove their facial
protection, without a care in the World.

The other thing that makes you go uhmmm is that the temperature at one
point is supposedly dropping at a rate of -10 degrees every SECOND, yet
it clearly takes the hero, and his son and friends for that matter,
well over 10 seconds to get to safety. This despite earlier in the film
someone in similar circumstances freezing on the spot in less than 3
seconds! (oh and it was also cold enough to freeze aviation fuel, but
obviously American film stars have more in their veins than everyone
else!? )

The temperature drops so fast that all the windows shatter, uhmm except
of course on the building where the stars are! (either that or their
room would have literally been snowed under, like the rest of New
York!). Added to the fact that their chimney seems to work despite
being blocked by snow and ice, surely if they hadn't frozen to death
due to having no windows, they'd have choked to death on the smoke
flooding their room since it had nowhere to escape to (this can be seen
near the end because the hero can't even tell that he's reached his
destination, and you certainly can't see any smoke coming from where
the chimney should be!).

Oh and to cap it all, once the hero finds his son (bet you never
thought he'd do it..YAWN!) the sun miraculously appears, as do hundreds
of survivors! (can anyone tell me how they'd survived in skyscrapers
that had no windows, and had been ravaged by tsunamis earlier int he
film!??!)

All in all I found myself wishing that it had been an English film, for
then some reality may have been preserved.

Sadly this film completely loses the plot half way through and all
credibility goes out of the window.

<|_=00=_|>
Okay, this wasn't as mind-numbing as "Alexander", and I did see it only
on cable...but the whole time I was watching it I felt uncomfortable,
as if I was looking at a really bad multiple-vehicle collision with
lots of injuries. You know you shouldn't, but some morbid part of you
won't let you turn away...

As for the plot...Global Warming can lead to another Ice Age. This is
bad enough, like saying that setting fire to your house will help to
keep your beer cold, but in this movie the Ice Age takes only fifteen
or twenty minutes to get started. You no sooner set a match to the
gasoline-soaked drapes than the entire house is encased in ice. Oh yes,
and you are being hunted by wolves who escaped from the city zoo. These
are the only animals that escaped from the zoo, and as the snow got
deeper and the temperatures lower, they didn't have the sense to head
South while they could.

I really doubt that there could be such a thing as the snow
super-hurricanes as depicted in the movie, but these were the chosen
special-effects-ex-machina to jump start the glaciers. A hurricane is a
heat engine, driven by the accumulated warmth of the sun on tropical
waters. What drives a super-snowcane? The answer to that one is easy: A
bad writer's overheated imagination. We get not one, but three of these
things, all appearing overnight and sweeping down from the North Pole
simultaneously. The one that hits New York also generates a storm
surge.

A real hurricane's storm surge is a dome of water under the eye of the
storm. It's there because the air pressure in the eye is much lower
than anywhere else. A storm surge might go eight to ten feet for a big
hurricane. The super-snowcane generates a surge high enough to slap the
face of the Statue of Liberty and submerge Manhattan. It comes in from
the east (The supercane winds would be pushing all the water the other
way) and arrives several minutes...sorry, hours...or maybe
days...before the eye of the storm does. The pacing in this movie is
astonishing whenever it isn't simply unbelievable. I think the passage
of time was sped up in order to cram as many really cool, nay,
chillin', special effects into two hours as possible.

The storm surge then does not leave. No, it stays in Manhattan,
enjoying Times Square, the Guggenheim and all the other cultural
attractions for a while. Gravity cannot pull it away, or perhaps the
ecology is so unsettled that water can no longer flow downhill. A
Russian supertanker joins in as another sightseer and then it all
freezes solid. Sea water can apparently freeze in minutes.

The New York supercane is monitored from space. The other two, ravaging
Europe and Siberia, are apparently less interesting. At one point, we
are told that the temperatures at the eye of the supercane are dropping
by ten degrees per second. Now, it doesn't matter if the degrees are
Fahrenheit or Centigrade. In less than a minute, this storm will be
freezing the air itself solid, but this doesn't happen. Apparently the
CGI budget could only go so far.

This unprecedented disaster forces the evacuation of the entire US. No
mention is made of what happened to the Canadians. In fact, I don't
think any mention at all is made of the Canadians. Maybe to them it was
just a chilly Spring, eh? Mexico, on the other hand, is mentioned a
couple of times, since all 300 million Americans seem to be trying to
get there. Just how they get there is as unmentioned as the Canadians,
since early on we are told that neither planes nor trains can operate
in the weather. Could SUVs?

At the end of the movie, we are treated to a sermon about how We Should
Respect Nature More, and Not Exploit Our Precious Resources. There's
also a humble obesiance to all the Third World countries who so
charitably took us all in. Got that? The US has been destroyed by its
own arrogance, and maybe now we'll appreciate subsistence farming and
outdoor plumbing a lot more. 

The special effects were impressive, but they followed each other so
quickly and bewilderingly that it was a lot like being punched
repeatedly in the head by Mike Tyson. Some of the special effects shots
were views from a space station. At the end of the movie, we see that
this was an Ice Age to top all Ice Ages. The snow and glaciers reach
all the way down to the Rio Grande. They stop there, though. Apparently
Mexico wouldn't let them in. But...During the last Ice Age, which only
reached as far South as Chicago, the sea level was a couple of hundred
feet lower than it is today. In spite of glaciers now occupying
Phoenix, San Diego and Orlando, in THIS movie, the sea level hasn't
changed at all and the coastlines are exactly the same as they were the
day before yesterday.
