
Crisp and heartfelt thriller that gives you the right shot in the arm
with an Oscar caliber performance by Rachel Weisz and an equally Oscar
worthy performance by Ralph Fiennes. This is a film about the horrors
of big business and the way they are willing to experiment on the poor
to achieve their goals. Rachel Weisz plays Tessa, A feisty activist who
uncovers a conspiracy by a pharmacy company to test experimental drugs
on the poor natives of Africa. She then tries to fight them and expose
the conspiracy until she is brutally murdered. Her husband, a quite
diplomat then begins to take up her cause and try to give his departed
wife justice while trying to uncover the hard truth of what is going
on.

Fernando Meirelles Follow up his masterpiece ":City of God" with an
equally satisfying journey of self-discovery, love and Justice. Ralph
Fiennes owns the role of Justin and he takes you into the center this
thrilling journey and into the center of his soul as well. The real
showstopper here is the performance of Rachel Weisz, who gives the
right balance of self-righteousness, heart and determination with her
role. Weisz makes you believe in the film and makes you equally as
determine as Justin and she was in uncovering the conspiracy and
uncovering the true about what had happen to her.

This is one of the best films of the year and if there is any justice
in the world, this baby would be nominated to the hill with Oscars and
Rachel Weisz would get one as well because her performance is easily
the best performance of any actor we have had all this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Intelligent and moving political thriller that should be held right up
there with "All The Presidents Men" and "The Killing Fields " as one of
the best political thrillers ever made. Fernando Meirelles tops his
last directional effort with a thriller that is moving, scary and down
right forthright in it's views of big companies gone wrong and the
horrors that they are willing to inflect on others for the sake of
profit. Rachel Weisz and Ralph Fiennes give career best performances in
this film and that's a huge compliment considering the fact that they
are good in almost everything they do, even in bad movies. Weisz is
strong willed and obsessive and Fiennes is determine and endearing and
both of them compliment each other with there destine to be award
winning chemistry and acting chops. The director compliments both of
them with a view of Africa that is rarely seen in film and a sense of
reality that is only found in real life.

Rachel Weisz, Ralph Fiennes and Fernando Meirelles all should be
honored at award season for their amazing efforts in this film because
as of right now, this is with out a doubt the film to beat come Oscar
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Great romantic thrill ride that is made even more special by the
performances of Rachel Weisz and Ralph Fiennes, who both give this
adaptation of the John Le Carre book a real sense of beauty, dignity
and grace with their on target performances. Weisz is perfection as
Tessa Qualye, a civil rights activist who is murdered for trying to
bring awareness of their illegal practices on the poor natives of an
African village. Weisz gives her character a self-righteous drive that
is made poignant by her determination and sheer will and she also makes
her character human, not a stereotype, which makes her performance the
more real. Ralph Finnes plays her grieving husband Justin, who takes up
her cause and begins to lean of how wonderful his wife really was and
what he missed during the time she was alive. His haunted performance
is in my opinion his best ever and is the driving point of this
haunting odyssey of justice, lost and self sacrifice. Rachel Weisz and
Ralph Fiennes both deserve Oscar nominations for their superb
performances and Fernando Meirelles deserves one as well for his superb
direction that puts you smack in the middle of the story that is
unfolding right in front of you.

Hands down, the best film of the year so far.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Constant Gardener" seeks to juggle three film stylesthe romance,
the thriller, and provocative social realism. On all three levels, the
film succeeds, especially with the latter.

Much credit should go to director Fernando Meirelles, who has
synthesized a virtual textbook of different film techniques. The uses
of set-ups, location filming, lenses, film editing, and close-ups were
simply dazzling. While the panoramic scenes of the African landscape
were breathtaking, there was a starkly contrasting approach to the
close-ups in the scenes in the city. The jittery, hand-held camera
sequences added to the dramatic tension and underscored the urgency of
coming to terms with poverty and disease.

The romantic portion of the film was anchored by the two characters
played by Ralph Fiennes (Justin) and Rachel Weisz (Tessa). Their first
meeting was dynamically presented as Tessa was a social activist
heckling Justin as he was making a political speech. When the hall was
cleared, however, it was Justin who was actually comforting Tessa after
her outburst. The juxtaposition of the placid, passive Justin versus
the fervent, hyper-kinetic Tessa was brilliantly established in that
opening scene. 

The strands of thriller and social realism are inextricably tied
together in the film. As a whodunit, "The Constant Gardener" seeks to
uncover what actually happened to Justin and Tessa on their African
journey. At the same time, the main culprit that emerges is the heavy
hand of greed as the pharmaceutical companies exploit helpless victims
of tuberculosis for the purpose of testing and marketing an
experimental drug. At one point in the film, it is disclosed to Justin
that the pharmaceutical industry is no different than "arms dealers."

Another British film entitled "The Girl in the Café" appeared recently
on American cable television. That gem of a film is a low-budget
version of "The Constant Gardener." Both films seek to raise
consciousness about the tragedy of world hunger and disease. The title
of "The Constant Gardener" is an important one because of the time and
care taken by Justin in his garden both at work and at home. In the
process, however, he has ignored the urgent pleas of his wife, and he
has lost touch with the world crisis to which he is arguably a
contributor. 

The eighteenth-century French writer Voltaire ended his famous novel
"Candide" with the slogan "One must cultivate one's garden." This film
would appear to suggest that instead of tending our gardens, we need to
follow the lead of Justin and Rachel and see how we all might work to
help others right now.
<|_=00=_|>
Slow tension building thriller that is charge even more with the great
performances of Rachel Weisz and Ralph Fiennes, who both bring an
essence of realism to their roles and a sense of chemistry that is
really not found in movies like this anymore. Rachel Weisz brings a
ferry fury that is ripe in it's convictions and Ralph Fiennes brings a
cool, collective zeal that is a slow building timer ready to
emotionally exploded at any minute. Both performances compliment the
fine directing of Fernando Meirelles, who gives this tale a sense of
brilliance in its storytelling and a sense of the way the world really
works. It's a heartfelt story of lost and redemption and it's
hauntingly poetic in it's horrifying look at the horrors of a world
that is willing to cast a blind eye at the problems of big business and
corrupt governments that are willing to do anything in order to make a
fast buck. Even going as far than to destroy human life to achieve
their goals.

This is a brilliant film and I can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been less than a day since I have seen it and I find it difficult
to get it out of my mind. The images and feelings stay with you. The
direction, cinematography and editing is superb. If you loved the style
of "City of God" with its "documentary style" camera work then you'll
love this too. The story is done "non-linear" like it was in the
book.and I thought it made the experience of seeing the movie so much
more enjoyable. Since the film starts off very early with the death of
Tessa and then continues with Justin's journey of discovery to find out
the cause of her death which only seems to bring even more heartache
and anger.....the non-linear style allowed for some light hearted
moments from Justin and Tessa's marriage to break up the tension.

The performances by both Rachel Weisz and Ralph Fiennes are excellent.
The relationship between Justin and Tessa came across as very real and
touching and it's a testament to the chemistry between the 2 actors.
The intimate moments were some of the most realistic I have ever seen
of a couple in love...unlike "Hollywood movie love". Fiennes
performance is unforgettable. I would have to rate this very close to
the quality I saw in "Schindler's List". He demonstrates such a change
from the beginning of the movie to the end. He conveys so much with
just his face. Justin will break your heart especially as he gains
wisdom. The soundtrack provides a wonderful complement to Justin's
journey of discovery. The music has a haunting quality as does this
movie. 

It's a testament to Meireilles that the movie seems to slowly draw you
in and hooks you as you go along with Justin. It challenges the viewer
to see the poverty and forces you to face your own complacency in the
world. So as Justin gains wisdom and is forced out of his
complacency.. it is like Meireilles is turning the mirror towards the
audience and asking them "Do you see what's happening in the world?
What are you going to do about it?". It is a powerful and moving story
and I think will soon become a favorite. I expect nominations for all
the major categories.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a rare gem in today's gravel pit of features. Rachel Weisz is
truly transcendent. She is just so immensely real and powerful and
alive! Fienne's role as that of a somewhat distant man is the perfect
complement to this.

Visually, this is one of the finest films I've seen in years; the
editing is brilliant and the cinematography is beautiful; the DP gives
us subtle stylistic cues and approaches which highlight the many
different worlds we encounter, from the abject poverty of Africa to the
interior of a private London club. 

See this film...and see what a movie can really be.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie opens with a genteel British diplomat whose hobby provides
the title, falling for a fiery human-rights activist Tessa (Rachel
Weisz), after she harasses him during a speechThey're soon married,
and she follows him on a placement to Kenya 

There, Justin (Ralph Fiennes) becomes increasingly uncomfortable with
Tessa's strange relationship with Arnold Bluhm (Hubert Koundé), a black
physician, doingwell, he's not sure what 

Suspicion of her brutal assassination soon falls on her confidant Bluhm
as he was the last one seen with her, and he's now missing 

Justin's journey for answers takes him on a tragic odyssey fraught with
mystery and peril Haunted by memories, Justin undergoes a personality
change to become more assertive when he uncovers a huge conspiracy that
will stop at nothing even to make money at the expense of helpless
Africans, who can't fight their own fight 

The film is visually brilliant, and the best aspect of it, is the
murder mystery Is Tessa really in love with Justin? Is she having an
affair? What is she really up to? 

Based on the best-selling novel by master thriller writer John le
Carré, "The Constant Gardener" is a fine love story wrapped up in a
parable which has real power and it has credibility It depicts the
breach between the rich and the poor and demonstrates quite well that
the world is deeply corrupt 

Fiennes' character, Justin, is a minor member of the diplomat corps
more interested in his garden than in other people, until the
passionate, radical world of Rachel Weisz's Tessa turns everything on
its head Justin respected Tessa's spirit and her conviction and
idealism And because of his love for her, he had to finish what she
started Of course people don't want the information to get out and
they will do anything to silence him 

Rachel Weisz won her first Oscar on March 5th, 2006 for her impressive
performance as the beautiful, kooky young woman, whose passion for her
cause initially overshadows her gentle side
<|_=00=_|>
Ralph Fiennes stars as a British diplomat whose complacency is
challenged when he is forced into a soul searching quest for the
reasons behind the tragic death of his activist wife (Rachel Weisz)
that uncovers a sinister pharmaceutical company in cahoots with British
and Kenyan governments testing a new TB drug on expendable HIV+
Africans.

Fiennes gives his most humanistic and endearing performance ever,
perhaps even topping his Oscar nominated turns in "Schindler's List"
and "The English Patient." Rachel Weisz is an illuminating revelation,
turning in the performance of her career. Her character develops and
becomes even more compelling after she dies and we learn her secrets
through expertly paced flashbacks. Director Fernando Meirelles takes
the amazing style he honed with "City of God" and adds a heart with
"The Constant Gardener," a big heart that bleeds a beautiful cinematic
poeticism onto the screen.

This film truly rewards its audience as it works on so many levels.
Like this year's earlier word-of-mouth and hot-button issue sleeper,
"Crash," you won't be able to stop talking about it after you leave the
theater. The politics here are engaging and bound to stir up even the
most complacent viewer. What's even more amazing is that all of the
timely political discourse and subsequent thriller aspects of the film
(courtesy of the source material, John Le Carre's novel) are wrapped up
in a timeless romance. We the audience join Fiennes on his journey, and
we rediscover the love story between he and his wife that anchors the
film in a poetic realism usually reserved for movies with much less on
their minds.

To top it off, it's all delivered in the maddeningly genius Meirelles
style that took critics and audiences by storm in his debut "City of
God". We have the shaky hand-held camera darting through vibrant and
colorful third-world locales juxtaposed with jaw-droppingly gorgeous
aerial photography of Africa in all its blazing glory. Meirelles again
shows us he is a true artist willing to show both the shocking beauty
and abject horror of the people and places that populate his films.
Again he delivers a message that people are doing horrible things to
other people the world over (be it in the form of wishy-washy
governments turning a blind eye, greedy corporations putting a price
tag on a human life, local thugs preying on the misfortune of their
neighbors, or friends betraying friends). With "City of God" he seemed
to be saying the only hope is to document it. With "The Constant
Gardener" he makes that argument again and takes it one brilliant step
forward. We may not be able to stop a war or a huge global injustice,
but we do have the power to help one person at a time. It takes a
courageous film to make such a statement, and a brilliant film-maker to
deliver it, and that's just what "The Constant Gardener" does.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the movie was great and worthy of the praise it has been
getting from audiences and critics alike. Ralph Fiennes gives the
performance of his career as a grieving man looking for answers and is
slowing discovering the corruption all around him and Rachel Weisz
steals the film whole heartily with a really deserving Oscar worthy
performance as a human rights activist who will stop at nothing to get
at the truth. The story is pretty scary and the cinematography is
fantastic. Yes, the shaky camera can get in the way but it's not
distracting enough to ruin the film.

If you want to see a movie that will make you think, this is it.
