
I had the opportunity to see this film at Cannes and then again at it's
'real' debut at the LA Film Festival. What a difference! Apparently the
filmmakers were anxious to get to Cannes and had not finished the
editing. Although I liked it before-- this version really hits the spot
without the confusing extras that were still at Cannes. I'm glad I gave
it a second chance and in fact I'm now anxious to see it again when
it's released. The film is very layered and subtle. It is beautifully
shot and the four main characters are original and yet painfully
familiar in their alienation, anger, and despair. The Cowboy character
played by Edward Norton seems so simple at first but as he is drawn
into the family his character and the truth of his 'being' gradually
unravels in ways that left me speechless at the end of the film. The
character played by Rory Culkin, "Twig", says very little throughout
the film and yet he conveys a sense of yearning and loneliness almost
too painful to bare. But even he undergoes an unexpected transformation
by the end of the film. My favorite though, was Evan Rachel Wood. I
think she steals the show... without trying at all. Her emotions and
rebelliousness are raw and totally authentic. She is a luminous
creature on the screen. Her relationship with the Cowboy seemed
unlikely at first and then became completely believable, especially in
the bathtub scene. My main criticism is that the film is demanding. If
you're not in the mood to sink into a fairly deep experience with some
shocking moments and unpredictable outcomes--don't waste your time.
This is a film for lovers of independent film and psychological kinds
of cinema. There are also several scenes that border on surrealism. I'd
be interested to know more about the making of this film and look
forward to the DVD. I imagine this film may take awhile to be
discovered but it holds tremendous rewards for those patient and
thoughtful enough to venture into it.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was fantastic!! I couldn't predict what would
happen, and it was like watching a great book where you can't wait to
turn the page, without having to get my fingers out of the popcorn. But
really I forgot all about the popcorn. The acting was great, the music
was captivating and really heightened the emotions. I felt so much for
Evan Rachel Wood's character and Rory Culkin. But I also reeaally
enjoyed Edward Norton's performance. I'd never heard of this director
before, but I really liked how this film moved along and it looked
great. And, since I live in Los Angeles, it was fun to see such
familiar locations. I really recommend this film for people who like
substance, not just action. It's not one for the kids obviously, but if
you liked any of the Cohen Brothers movies, or Fight Club, or Garden
State, you'll most likely enjoy Down In The Valley. I did!!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't miss this elusive, allusive film if it hits a screen near you.
See it before it becomes a cult movie. Profoundly American, it
resonates with the contradictions of a culture whose real roots have
been severed and is therefore struggling to live out its own mythology
as a substitute. Desperately seeking sustenance and solace in a false
memory of its real past.

There are echoes of Badlands in this story of an archetypal American
drifter. Having no roots, personal, social or occupational, he tries to
live by the simple, direct values of the mythical west whose fantasised
reality he creates for himself. Harlan has cowboy skills that won't get
him a job; and uncompromising personal and social attitudes of
independence and individual freedom. If these were ever real in the
wide-open spaces of the pioneering west, they have no place or space to
be, in the claustrophobic urban, cheek-by-jowl industrial ugliness of
contemporary America.

Ed Norton is one of the few actors around today who could sustain such
a movie. And though all the supporting performances are excellent,
Norton's powerful screen persona carries the weight of the film's
strong atmosphere and tone. Norton's Harlan exudes danger. A sinister
unpredictability of the superficially and misleadingly normal.

Evan Rachel Woods' rebellious teenager Tobe (short for 'October')
impulsively invites gas station attendant Harlan to join her and her
friends going to the beach. Just as impulsively, 30-something Harlan
throws up his job and goes. Almost surprised by Tobe's overt sexual
precociousness, Harlan's fantasised simple Texan cowboy self enters
into a na√Øve, even tender romantic relationship with the half child,
half woman, but fully sexual Tobe. In the process he befriends her
introspective, almost autistic 13 year-old brother Lonnie (a
first-class Rory Caulkin). None of this sits well with Tobe's father
Wade, stepfather to Lonnie. Wade is a gun-collecting Vietnam war
veteran turned prison warder whose short temper and aggressive but
dangerously controlled and controlling personality, is both suspicious
of and threatened by, Harlan's apparent openness, honesty and genuine
feeling for both Tobe and Lonnie. His respectful attitude cuts no ice
with the deeply suspicious Wade.

Jacobson's direction maintains a sense of distance from his characters
by seldom going in close; concentrating largely on mid and two-shots.
Exteriors stay long and convey a sense of expansiveness and scale
reminiscent of traditional westerns, also used so effectively by Ang
Lee in Brokeback Mountain. Elegant and simple editing creates an almost
lyrical tone to Harlan and Tobe's burgeoning romance, which looks
convincing yet carries an undertow of imminent menace. A superb and
evocative soundtrack composed and largely performed by Peter Sallet,
both musically and lyrically, reinforces this plaintive, elegiac tone.
The apparent lightness of the unlikely romance is set against a
brooding backdrop with more than a hint of an imminent storm. This is
superb film-making, its various elements subtly blended together into a
satisfying and affecting whole. Underpinned by Jacobson's own lean,
expressive screenplay. In conception and execution this is very much
Jacobson and Norton's (co-producer) film. Very personal.

A showdown with Wade sends Harlon off to re-visit his actual or fantasy
past. We are left unsure. We become witness to the extent of his
fantasised existence and this, with the sense of foreboding intimated
earlier, turns the tone of the film darker and more disturbing.
Throughout, recurring images echo the western fantasy Harlon lives out:
escaping with both Tobe and Lonnie riding through the urban landscape,
up to the hills; teaching Lonnie how to shoot; and playing out fantasy
western scenes in his apartment. Shades of Travis Bickle (Taxi Driver)
here. A Shane with attitude. Harlan is highly skilled in the use of
western-style handguns, quick-drawing and fast-shooting. It is no
coincidence that guns convey a totemic power throughout the film both
in Wade's love of collecting them and Harlan's passion for the skill in
handling them. A gun figures in the critical dramatic event in the
movie. This pivotal moment poses the thought that these essential tools
of the pioneer opening up a vast and hostile country, become corrosive
and subversive to the necessarily different basis of personal and
social relationships in the densely populated urban setting of modern
America. Right idea - wrong time.

The denouement of the film further blurs the line between fantasy and
reality. Between old cherished verities and contemporary uncertainties.
Again recalling Brokeback Mountain. Our feelings about Harlan, just
like Lonnie who helps him against his stepfather, are deeply
ambivalent. Like Tobe and Lonnie we have no frame of reference within
which to judge Harlan appropriately. And to choose what Wade represents
is unthinkable. As the brother and sister say their farewells to Harlan
we are left with an impression not so much of an oddball with a deluded
fantasy, as a man with a keen sense of a once genuine reality somehow
misplaced in a time and place no longer capable of understanding or
sustaining it.

A beautifully made, multi-layered film that engages and absorbs on a
simple narrative level but which resonates with thoughtful and
challenging ideas about today's America and its sense of cultural
identity in relation to its past - real and imagined. A rare treat. See
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just caught "Down in the Valley" by David Jacobson (who also wrote) at
the cinema and was completely knocked out. An achingly beautiful &
melancholy film, tender as an open wound and with a Edward Norton in, I
think, his finest role (he also produced, with the help of the Sundance
Foundation) as he veers towards the void, like an innocent Travis
Bickle. He plays a delusional drifter who thinks he's a cowboy in the
modern day San Fernando Valley, who falls for the beautiful young
daughter (great performance Evan Rachel Wood) of David Morse (always
consistent). Great script with some wonderful lines + a nice cameo role
from Bruce Dern...this film left some indelible mark - one of the best
I've seen in some time. Highly recommended. Oh, fantastic music,
also....
<|_=00=_|>
Chances are, you'll end up seeing it anyway. Norton chooses his
projects carefully, and they stick around, years later, in DVD. The
reason is that they always shake you, if your mind doesn't back out and
close itself off to the unexpected. In this case, he's magnetic all the
way through, and the storyline is riveting, and fascinatingly
audacious. To avoid any spoiler, i'll leave it at that... but you must
see it. Evan Rachel Woods is perfect, and the relationship between them
two is an ideal chemistry. I can't think of a moment where I stopped
caring for the characters and wondering who was right or wrong... It
would be a shame if people traded that experience for the comfort of
watching M:I 3, and the movie got ignored during its theatrical
release. It's a rare, full bodied experience that should be explored.
<|_=00=_|>
Down in the Valley Wow Edward Norton rocks the screen again playing a
cowboy with a very layered and subtle performance. It is beautifully
shot and the four main characters are original and yet painfully
familiar in their alienation, anger, and despair. The character played
by Rory Culkin, "Twig", says very little throughout the film and yet he
conveys a sense of yearning and loneliness almost too painful to bare.
But even he undergoes an unexpected transformation by the end of the
film. The lead is a beautiful creature on the screen. Her relationship
with the Cowboy seemed unlikely at first and then became completely
believable, especially in the bathtub scene. If you love independent
you really will enjoy the artistic quality of this film. There are also
several scenes that border on surrealism. This film will leave you
thinking and wondering about your life, isn't that what we always would
hope for after leaving the movies. My vote is 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
It takes a certain mindset to appreciate DOWN IN THE VALLEY, a quiet
little movie about little people who want something more than what
their environs offer. The film is long (just over two hours), could use
some editing, allows a rather pedestrian musical score to cover the
dialogue far too frequently, and for much of the film the camera
exposure makes everything so sun drenched (even for the San Fernando
Valley where the story takes place!) that it feels bleached. But those
aspects feel secondary in the presence of some very fine performances
by an excellent cast directed with vision by writer/director David
Jacobson.

Life is exceedingly boring in the bland town where Tobe (Evan Rachel
Wood) and her little brother Lonny (Rory Culkin) live with their
sheriff father Wayne (David Morse) - we never know why there is no
mother around though Wayne brings in sleepover subs at random. Tobe has
girlfriends with whom she cruises guys and on one afternoon's trip to
the beach she meets gas station attendant Harlan (Edward Norton), a
drifter who claims to be a rancher form South Dakota and has all the
genteel manners of a gentleman raised to respect women. Harlan lives in
a trashy motel, plays and dresses as a cowboy, and has an innocence
about him that makes us want to believe he is not the borderline
personality he is. Tobe picks Harlan up, they begin seeing each other
despite Wayne's better judgment, and Tobe and Harlan include Lonny in
their pursuit of a world that borders on make believe Western drama.
Wayne objects more strongly, discovers Harlan is tempting Tobe away
from her home, and confronts Harlan until Harlan finally decides the
only way to move forward is to rescue Tobe and Lonny from their bad
homelife. Harlan's dark side emerges and his cowboy play becomes real,
gunshots are fired and the ending of the film is a m√©lange of old
Western movie make-believe and contemporary tragedy of a young man out
of joint with his world.

Edward Norton gives a stunning portrayal of an out of touch drifter: we
never know his background except for suggestions that his childhood was
spent in detention homes, foster homes, and other dysfunctional modes
of getting by. Evan Rachel Wood is radiantly beautiful as the needy
teenager who ultimately cannot cope with her desires to leave the home
nest. Rory Culkin has few lines but his presence is palpably worrisome.
Bruce Dern is on board as a crusty old contemporary 'cowboy' and David
Morse again turns in a performance that is three dimensional and
credible (it would have been helpful to know why he is a single
parent). The film is not without its flaws (as mentioned above plus
more), but it manages to give Edward Norton yet another chance to
demonstrate his considerable skills as an actor who can make the most
peripheral characters stick in our hearts. This is a fine little movie,
much underrated. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not quite sure exactly how I felt about Down in the Valley. At many
times I thought it was a gorgeous film, shot perfectly, but at others I
felt uncomfortable and shocked. We are given a love story between a
troubled young man and a high school girl trapped in a family that
could self-destruct at any moment. These two have been on a journey to
find themselves, and in each other's kindred spirits finds another to
help steer them onto the right course. However, a relationship like
this cannot last. Whether or not you throw in the hot-tempered father,
the shy brother lacking in gumption, or the voice inside our lead's
head, the tale is one ripe for tragedy. I guess that means it all
hinges on the story that gets you from the beginning to the end and
whether it is one that was worth the journey. Despite the numerous
moments that seemed out of place, and those that stirred discomfort, I
will have to conclude that the path is ultimately one I'm glad I took.
The great moments were a sight to behold and the tough ones did their
job because I still can't shake them.

If nothing else, the acting is top-notch. Evan Rachel Wood is truly
amazing for a girl her age. From the little girl in Digging to China,
to the rebellious teen in Thirteen, I can't believe how poised she is
in all she does. Whereas someone like Anna Paquin fell off the map, as
she got older, I think Wood will be around for quite awhile, and I
can't wait for Across the Universe later this year. In this film, she
encompasses the role of a young woman trying to break free from her
stifling yet loose family life into a relationship that is too much for
someone of her maturity to completely understand. When she slowly
realizes what she is a part of, it is too late, and her mixture of fear
with the love she still holds is heartbreaking. David Morse also brings
a brilliant performance to the table. A long time character actor, he
plays the formidable, sheriff type well, yet has the emotional range to
portray the compassion he has underneath the rough exterior. His role
is a man that is doing his best, but only when tragedy strikes does he
realize how much love he has to give. Rory Culkin rounds out the
supporting cast showing nice restraint in a confused young boy unable
to differentiate good from bad as the good does what seems bad in order
to protect and the bad puts on the fa√ßade of good to win him over.

In the end, the real force of the movie is Edward Norton. It's good to
see that after his little hiatus from acting, he has come back better
than ever. His character Harlan is a complex man with a past that has
made him regress into the age of chivalrous western ranches. You can
see it in his eyes that the world wronged him in some way and he needed
to become a part of a moment in time where people mattered and not
material objects. When he ends up in an old west film set and watches
the extras dancing and enjoying life in its bear form, the ecstatic
look on his face shows it all. Harlan doesn't know who he is and the
love of this very young girl puts him into a world that threatens the
fa√ßade he has worked hard to build. The drugs and the selfishness and
the pain wreak havoc on his mind and he begins to let his past anger
rise back to the surface. Every moment as he continues on his journey
is true to him; when he changes reality to suit his survival, he
believes every word he is saying. Something is broken in him, and no
one could have portrayed it better than Norton.

I do think, though, that the acting is too good for the film. Morse and
Norton are so effective in showing the dual nature of their characters
that you end up feeling cheated never finding out what happened in
their lives to get them to the points they are at when we are
introduced to them. The script never allows us to see any of the
characters' motivations, only the slice of life we are shown on screen.
Is Harlan the son of a Rabbi? just a troubled youth with a criminal
record? both? and if so what happened to make him try and forget it
all? These are questions that the movie makes you ask, but never gives
any answers to. To have a beautifully shot scene of Norton and Wood out
in the country with a wonderful transition sequence involving a
swing-set and then at the end progress to an outlaw gunfight chase is
all at once jarring and effective, and yet insufficiently explained.
These characters are so complex, I just wish the film did more to help
us understand them all rather than just show us what happens when their
cultures clash in the game of love. Definitely worth a look, but
ultimately an underachieving film that had the makings for greatness.
<|_=00=_|>
Down in The Valley What a great film...very layered and subtle. It is
beautifully shot and the four main characters are original and yet
painfully familiar in their alienation, anger, and despair. The Cowboy
character played by Edward Norton (who is amazing) seems so simple at
first but as he is drawn into the family his character and the truth
unravels in ways that left me at a stand still near the end of the
film. The character played by Rory Culkin, "Twig", says very little
throughout the film and yet he conveys a sense of yearning and
loneliness almost too painful to bare. But even he undergoes an
unexpected transformation by the end of the film. The lead is a
beautiful creature on the screen. Her relationship with the Cowboy
seemed unlikely at first and then became completely believable,
especially in the bathtub scene. This is a film for lovers of
independent film and psychological kinds of cinema. There are also
several scenes that border on surrealism. This film will leave you
thinking and wondering about your life. My vote is 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
For those favoring character-driven films, this is a must-see. The
performances are all top-notch: Norton is excellent as always, and
Wood's character Tobe is perhaps the best realization of a teen ever
committed to film. Also, Rory Culkin is a revelation--his lost moppet
is the sympathetic center of the film, and he imbues it with genuine
soul. 

Much of the film's success is owed to the director, David Jacobson.
Judging from this film, he is a more poetic version of a 1970s
Scorsese. That may sound like hyperbole, but his take on the human
condition and its longing for connection is graceful, daring, and
incisive.
