

Once every few years, you're presented to a slapstick comedy so
hilarious you instantly forget how LOW this form of entertainment
actually is. I can't give a scientific explanation to state how come
it's funny to see someone (preferably wearing glasses) getting hit in
the face by a ballit just is. Dodgeball is vulgar, crude and without
substancebut your stomach will hurt from laughing and don't we all
need that from time to time? In case you really want to defend this
film, you can always say it features tons of unsubtle criticism towards
modern American image of exaggerated health-obsession. Ben Stiller's
character is the personification of the obnoxious fitness guru: 'We're
better than you, and we know it'. Opposed to him, there's Vince Vaughn
as the chilled-minded, lovable guy who owns a fitness center for the
underdeveloped wimps. Due to his financial situation, he risks losing
his gym to Stiller except if he and his teams of misfits manage to win
the world-famous dodgeball tournament. The film is a series of cheap
chuckles, eccentric characters and outrageous one-liners. It's pretty
funny to hear Stiller yell out lines like: 'You're a skid mark on the
underpants of society'. Or the always-amusing Rip Torn encouraging his
team with the words: 'you're as useful as a cock-flavored lollipop'.
The acting is great as it can be with Ben Stiller and Rip Torn who go
delightfully over the top and lots of enthusiast cameos (Chuck Norris,
David Hasselhof, William Shatner and even Lance Armstrong). It sure
isn't Schindler's List but Dodgball is great entertainment and stress
releasing.

<|_=00=_|>
I just watched Dodgeball last night and I can't remember laughing so
hard at a movie in years, from Vince Vaughn finally being cast as a
person you can like to Rip Torn who is always at his best as the
sarcastic coach who is full of colorful one-liners, and I didn't start
out as a Ben Stiller Fan, but his movies have seriously picked up in
quality lately

From the supporting cast and the cameo's everyone does a top notch job,
Gary Cole is especially amusing as the sports announcer and his always
missing the point sidekick, The Dim bulb Chris Klein type Dimwit on
Vince Vaughns team adds to the hilarity, and Missy Pyle(What A Babe!!)

Forget what all the Negativity from the other reviewers state, this is
a comedy, a comedy is meant to entertain, it is not Casablanca or the
Producers, but it is not meant to be

(****) Out Of (****)
<|_=00=_|>

Go and see it. It's one of the best comedies of the year and a lot
funnier than it should be given the flimsy premise. Ben Stiller has a
big 'Globo' health club worth millions (it even includes cosmetic
surgery facilities - they know that 'fatness is genetic, like baldness
or necrophilia'). The lovely Christine Taylor is his lawyer, charged
with getting rid of the 'Average Joe' gym across the road so they can
build a parking lot for Globo customers. She takes a liking to the
'underdog' owner of the Average Joe gym though, and helps them in their
plan to win a Dodgeball contest in order to get the money they owe.
Dodgeball is an 'obscure' sport that mostly consists of throwing a ball
to hit your opponent (look it up on the Net - Dodgeball fans take it
quite seriously!) Even when I describe the film, I think 'it sounds
awful' - I probably would have avoided it if it hadn't been recommended
so highly - and I recommend you stay till the *very end* of the credits
for one of the best scenes (which also takes a swipe at the US
film-making industry!)

<|_=00=_|>

Peter La Fleur runs a second rate gym that is populated by non-paying
members who are, shall we say, on the edge of society. Peter's relaxed
existence is made difficult by the fact that a large gym across the
road aims to shut him down. When the Average Joe gym receives its final
warning from the bank, they face a 30-day deadline to come up with
$50,000 or lose the gym to competitor White Goodman. After their
initial ideas fail, they discover that the national dodgeball contest
has a prize of that very amount  with a little help from an
ex-champion, they set out to make it to the finals and save the day.

This film came to the UK on a wave of hype and praise but I was a
little wary because I knew that the style of humour that it has can be
very hit and miss. The film has the same plot that all these sorts of
sports movies have and you pretty much know where it is going from the
very start but, to be honest, how many people have come here for the
engaging story? No  me neither! The humour is very silly and it will
not appeal to everyone but I found it pretty funny with the
out-of-the-blue stuff being the funniest; if you find it funny to hear
the line 'thank you Chuck Norris' said with sincerity then this will be
the film for you. It isn't as consistent as I would have liked because
it does have a couple of patches where there are more misses than hits
but generally I had a good hatful of laughs and, when not laughing I
still had a smile on my face.

Of course, like I said, this isn't for everybody and I'm sure many will
see it as a juvenile  and it does seem to have been aimed at the young
male side of the market. The downside of this is that the majority of
the laughs are pretty basic and, as we are seeing too often recently,
the old audience draw of girls kissing is wheeled out yet again. The
casting also helps to a certain degree and do help a bit to cover the
basic humour. Vaughn is cool and relaxed and, although you wouldn't
call it 'acting' he is a likable lead. Stiller has a few dry moments
but generally his 70's fitness freak steals every scene he is in.
Taylor is pretty but you can't help feeling that the film is only using
her when, for no reason other than titillation she is revealed as
bisexual (with a girlfriend). Torn is funny if basic and Azaria is also
funny. The support cast is more about off the wall characters than good
writing or performances, but Long, Root, Moore, Tudyk and others are
all OK. Cameos from Hasselhoff, Norris, Shatner and Lance Armstrong are
all briefly amusing and, just like Best in Show, commentators Gary Cole
and Jason Bateman do spot on spoofs of low-grade sports commentators
and have lots of great lines between them.

Overall this is not the funniest film EVER, as some critics have
absurdly claimed  it simply isn't consistent enough for that accolade
but it is still a pretty funny film if you are in the mood for silly
humour and some pretty basic jokes. The use of easy draws such as
female flesh, lesbianism and physical jokes is a bit of a downer when
you think about it but I doubt many will complain when it is on. The
cast generally do well and the material is funny and energetic enough
to do the job, producing a silly film that is hardly memorable but will
be fun while you're watching it.

<|_=00=_|>

I haven't laughed this hard at a movie in years. That's all I can really say
about this movie. It's stupid, sure, but it's so hilarious, you don't
care.

I could not stop laughing. There are so many jokes in this movie, you don't
even have a chance to rest before the next one comes along.

Ben Stiller as the "evil" White Goodman -- it's a classic character that
should go down in the annals of comedy greatness. The announcers for ESPN 8
"The Ocho" (Gary Cole and Jason Bateman) had me rolling in the aisles.
Stephen Root is a comic genius as well, and Alan Tudyk as the random pirate
(why? who cares!) was pure gold.

Oh, and make sure you stay till the end of the credits... Ben Stiller does a
routine that's absolutely hysterical.
<|_=00=_|>
Silly metaphor, I know. The film "Dodgeball: A true underdog story"
while maybe be offensive at times, the film really brings it back up to
place with the humor. You really can't help but laugh at the movie a
couple times. Sort of like "Zoolander", another great flick with Ben
Stiller, it's so stupid you've gotta love it. I would recommend this
film for a good laugh. As of movie of the year or comedy of the year,
no, this is not the film. But it was a good one to watch. A true film
for any Ben Stiller fan, that's for sure. I will warn though, if you
get offended easily, this maybe not the film for you.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
When average Joe's gym, run by Peter La Fleur (Vince Vaughn) is under
threat of take over by White Goodman (Ben Stiller), La Fleur and his
gym members must raise $50,000 to save it. The only way to do it is
Dodge Ball, and with the help of a seasoned professional, maybe they
have a chance.

Great characters, and a hilarious script make dodge ball a Hit, Ben
Stiller's and Rip Torn's characters are particularly well written, but
none of the characters fail to get a laugh, and there is a good blend
of them on show.

Definitely worth a look for anyone who fancies a laugh. It's not a
classic, but it doesn't fail to entertain with it's slapstick style.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film is one of the funniest slapstick comedy ever. Ben Stiller was
funny as always and Vince Vaughn was surprisingly funny. Stiller plays
White Goodman and he is the snobbish owner of his up-to-the-style Globo
Gym whereas Vaughn plays Peter La Fleur and he is the owner of Average
Joe's. The gyms find out that there would be a dodgeball tournament
held in a few weeks with a grand prize of fifty thousand dollars.
Average Joe's need that money or else the gym goes to Globo Gym. The
gyms ended up going and making it to the finals. But who wins? The
movie will tell you that. All of the supporting actors were funny
especially Rip Torn as Patches O'Houlihan. If you like Ben Stiller, you
will like this movie. I rate this film a 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
What's funny about dodgeball? First, it's a movie about a group of
non-competitive and somewhat eccentric adults playing dodgeball to save
a not-very-impressive gym from the clutches of a competitive
monopolistic chain gym. Second - Ben Stiller. Stiller is over-the-top
and hilarious as the evil nemesis of average Joe Vince Vaughn. Vaughn -
playing the slightly less than average Joe owner of Average Joe's gym,
plays the perennial hard luck loser to the hilt. The supporting cast is
terrific. Alan Tudyk, Rip Torn, Christine Taylor and Stephen Root are a
great ensemble.

This is a rather extreme and rather Hollywood camp comedy. Although a
lot of the humor is adult, the film is also refreshingly clean compared
with the averaged 21st century comedy. Dodgeball also doubles as a
spot-the-cameo film, since a whole host of odd celebrities pop up here
and there throughout.

The first time I saw this film, I was charmed and I laughed a lot.
Although the film remained entertaining, like most comedies it lost a
bit of its luster in its second viewing.

Why only a 6 rating? Despite the campiness and good solid humor, this
is still a very formulaic film and it does tend to vaporize after a
viewing or two.

Strongly recommended - for one viewing!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is not intended to be a great work of art and no one will win
an Oscar for it because it is just a film packed full of laughs that
leaves you smiling afterwards - that is, with the exception of the few
posters here bereft of any sense of humour.

I am not a great Ben Stiller fan - generally, I find him rather unfunny
but he scores highly in this film and Vince Vaughn also deserves
recognition among others for fine comedic timing.

The guest appearances also add to the general fun and the
wheelchair-bound coach, played by Rip Torn is just a hoot.

This is definitely one to hire from your local rental shop - me, I'm
going to buy the DVD!
