
I remember loving Our Gang when I was a kid. Sitting in front of that
wood grain TV watching Spanky & Alfalfa, wishing I could be a part of
their adventures. Then I remember seeing the Little Rascals (1994)
remake, and hating it Despising it. Worst piece of crap ever. Utter.
trash. People who obviously had no respect for the original and
just...screwed it up.

Well, I also remember loving The Three Stooges as a kid. Just classic
material. Then I remember seeing the trailer for this new remake, and
hating it. I moved on, putting it out of my mind. It got the 2012
treatment and looked like how you would expect it to look when they
rape our memories for a quick buck. 

Then I was invited to a top secret viewing of the flick. Free. I don't
pass up free stuff. So I went. Figured I would have fun ranting about
this movie later.

So , let me get this out of the way first. This movie surpassed my
extremely low expectations for it. And that is where I sat with it for
a while after I saw it, trying to figure out if I liked it because I
had low expectations, or because I truly find it to be actually funny.
I have confidently decided on the latter.

Yes, The Three Stooges 2012 is a *gasp* funny movie. I was pleasantly
surprised by the humor. Yes its essentially a fart joke movie, but.it
is a well made fart joke movie, which isn't easy to make. This isn't
Norbit. Like the originals, there are well placed jokes,nice set ups
and the story mostly moves along at a nice clip. The characters are
interesting and plenty of the gags are laugh out loud funny. The film
doesn't take itself seriously at all, and is better for it. I felt like
the Farrelly brothers have a lot of love for the Stooges, and it really
shows up on film. 

You will fall in love the 10 year old versions of Larry Moe and Curly.
I would kill to see an entire movie based on them at the orphanage. IMO
10 year old Curly is channeling Vern from Stand by Me. Like, eerily a
pitch perfect Vern.

So the film is broken down into 3 episodes in classic Stooges format,
but its all one story. You will know where the story is going right
away, but it doesn't stop it from being entertaining. There are plenty
of twists that make for some laugh out loud jokes that I would hate to
ruin for you here. The adult versions of Larry Moe and Curly are REALLY
good. I have absolutely no complaints other than Moe's jaw looked too
big. That is about it. The mannerisms are flawless, sound effects are
on point, even the 'special effects' are done in a way that looks like
the originals. The way a bell falls on someone, or the way the boys
jump on horses. It is all done in a way that looks fake, but on
purpose. The attention to detail in that department made me smile.

There is some depth to Moe that we get to see that could have failed
miserably as groan inducing but really works here. I was impressed to
see some nuanced range. It was just the right touch. 

What really makes this movie genuinely funny though are all the
peripheral characters. Everyone buys in to who they are in this
universe and plenty of characters will surprise you. Every single
character the Stooges interacted with in even the smallest ways brought
something worthwhile to the movie...just like in the originals.

*SPOILERS* So the cast of Jersey Shore is in the movie for a short
time. The only real issue I had was I thought they played the Jersey
Shore gag too much. Using topical humor too much traps a movie in that
time period, when The Stooges should always be timeless. With that
said, they used the cast well (I hate the show) and even had a
hilarious, out of left field Kardashian sisters joke. So the topical
stuff was funny, but I feel definitely wasn't needed. *END SPOILERS*

The greatest respect I can give this movie is it honestly made me feel
10 years old again. I was laughing like a kid. I let go of all the
criticisms I thought I would want to give it and just sat back and
ENJOYED IT. Cant remember the last time I did that with this kind of
movie. The audience loved it too and clapped at the end. I know right?
We must all be idiots, right? Nah. Take your son, nephew or goofy buddy
and sit back and enjoy some new Stooge material in 2012. Its not often
they get it RIGHT, so you owe it to yourself to see it on the big
screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm pushing 60. I've been a fan of the original Three Stooges for
almost my whole life. Got all the DVDs. Read most of the books. In all
that time, I have seen many imitators of all 6 Stooge-members,
including Moe, Larry, Curly, Shemp, Joe Besser and Curly Joe deRita. In
these guys (Hayes, Sasso & Diamondapoulos), I've never seen anyone come
nearly as close to the original Larry Curly & Moe. And that includes
the three actors who portrayed the boys in the 2000 TV-movie bio-pic.
But it isn't just that. It's the Writing and Directing of the Farrelly
brothers here that really does the trick. The funniest things the
original comedy trio did were the rapid-fire slapping, poking and
punching, set to hilariously beautiful sound-effects. That is all
presented here, perhaps even more often than in the original short
films of the '30s & '40s. The time is just right for all this. This is
another nostalgia trip for baby-boomers like me and so many others
today. Presented in the form of one continuous 90-minute story divided
into three 30-minute "short films," even the pace is perfect. I was a
little leary of the brothers' apparent "need" to include Jersey Shore
cast-members into the film, but that decision turned out okay. Loved
this hilarious, fast-paced comedy film. ***1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a lot of fun. It remains very true to the Stooges form.
So, if you are looking for some mindless laughs and a fun evening at
the movies, you will enjoy this one from start to finish. Some of the
reviewers here seem to have been looking for something more than this
film ever promised. 

If you are looking for an art house film, or an important and
significant film, this one isn't it. If you are looking for a film to
be as fresh as the stooges were in their time, this one stays too true
to form to fit that bill. Slapstick, not sophistication is the hallmark
of this film.

But if you understand the Stooges, and are just looking for some
laughs, you can't go wrong here.
<|_=00=_|>
The Stooge legacy exists apart from time itself  I loved them when I
was nine for the eye-pokes; I loved them in later life for the knowing
humor (and the eye-pokes). I loved them even though they were from a
long gone era. And most people I know hold the Stooges in the same high
esteem I do. Among goofy guys like me, they are the high priests. They
are sacred cows.

There is a great risk in taking on a sacred cow. If nothing else, I
admire the courage of the Farrelly brothers, goofy guys themselves, who
would know the risks all too well. Die-hard Stooge fans might even wish
for the failure of the project, if nothing else but to affirm the
irreplaceable nature of the Stooges.

All that said, I admit I approached the movie skeptically. In the end,
I was won over. The movie's homage to the Stooges is in getting them
right. All of the slapstick humor is there; all of the wisecracks are
there. These Stooges capture the craziness and the randomness of the
original Stooges without trying too hard to "interpret the role" or any
such silliness. It's respectful of the original.

For me, once I was comfortable with these guys as the Stooges, the fun
was in seeing the Stooges in the present day, where smacking someone
over the head with a sledgehammer is even less acceptable than it was
in the 1930's. They goof on all sorts of present day annoyances- Jersey
Shore, the Kardashians, just like they goofed on high society and other
annoyances of their own time.

The bottom line: I was laughing the whole time. If you're a Stooges
fan, there's a lot to like  just give the movie a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
To go into this movie expecting the original stooges is ridiculous. The
Stooges are long gone. Go into this movie expecting a loving tribute to
the comedic powerhouse that was "The Three Stooges" and you will come
out totally satisfied. All three actors are faithful and accurate in
their imitation of the beloved characters. (I emphasize "IMITATION"
because no-one can ever truly replace or replicate the originals.) The
actors do a great job bringing the antics of the stooges into the
modern day and civilization, while still sticking to the classic roots
that made the stooges, "The Stooges". The director and everyone
involved in the production of this film are obviously huge fans for
working so hard to maintain the integrity of the franchise while
modernizing it as well. All in all, a fantastic homage to a classic
comedy routine.
<|_=00=_|>
As a Three Stooges fan, I was a little biased to not like this movie.
It still bothers me that others made millions from the reruns, and
Stooges themselves got little or nothing. I know that the Farrelly
Brothers hope to profit from this film, and they deserve it. The
reverence that they must have for the Stooges comes through very
clearly. From the structure of the film, to the script, and to to
performances, everything was perfect. The actors nailed their parts -
in voice, mannerisms, and heart. I truly was as if the original Moe,
Larry, and Curly were on the screen.

All of that aside, the movie was funny. I cannot remember a time when I
was in a theater where there was so much laughter coming from the
audience. Even my teenage daughter and her two friends laughed out
loud. One scene had me laughing so hard that tears came to my eyes.

So, if you are a Three Stooges fan, this is a must see movie.

P.S. Be sure to sit through the credits. It is a Farrelly Brothers
movie after all.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm what you would call a rare commodity: a female stooge fan. When I
was a little girl, every Sunday night from 1989 to 1994 there was a
stooge marathon on TV and my dad and I would have popcorn and ice cream
and just laugh the night away. I always wondered if it was nostalgia
that I loved the stooges so much, but I still as an adult get together
with my dad and will bring over a stooge DVD and watch it with him, his
wife and my fiancé and still laugh like if we were seeing it for the
first time. There was something so special about these guys who went
through anything just to make people smile and you could tell that they
loved doing so. They've inspired so many comedians today and a lot of
people still consider them to be the top dogs of comedy, they really
did create slap stick. So when I heard there was a movie coming out
where the stooges were going to be in today's world, I just cringed,
even more so when I learned it was the Farrelly brothers behind it,
they're a hit or miss team. But in the surprise of 2012, we got a great
comedy that I'm sure if the stooges were alive today would really enjoy
and that's because of the lead actors who held this film together and
had a lot of love and respect for these three knuckleheads.

Ever since Moe, Larry, and Curly were dumped on the doorstep of the
Sisters of Mercy Orphanage, they have wreaked havoc on the place and
have left the nuns there scared. 25 years later, the trio is still
living there and attempting to help out, and taking care of the kids as
well. When they get wind the orphanage will be shutting down unless
they can come up with $830,000 in 30 days, the trio volunteers to go
out and try to raise the money somehow. A woman named Lydia is trying
to kill her husband, and offers to pay the trio the money they need to
take care of the job. However, they botch the job and leave the
supposed husband in traction in the hospital. When they try to visit to
finish the job, they are chased throughout the hospital and escape by
jumping off the roof using a fire hose. They end up running into a now
grown up Teddy, a boy they lost an adoptive family too, from the
orphanage, who invites them to his anniversary party. Turns out that
he's the actual husband they need to kill.

What could've been a total flop turned into a very funny comedy and I
think the reason it worked was because the obvious love that Sean
Hayes, Will Sasso and Chris Diamantopoulos had for the stooges. The
jokes were perfect and even directly taken from some shorts. The
mannerisms were also on key and you almost believe it's the real Moe,
Larry and Curly on screen. Even the side characters were really funny
like Sofía Vergara, Jane Lynch and Stephen Collins. I liked how we
could see the stooges in an updated world where it's completely
different from the 1930's. The film has a couple flaws like how they
have this "heart to heart" with Moe which honestly was never apart of
the stooge shorts. I can understand they have to have conflict in the
movie, but it didn't work with the characters. Also there's an end
credit scene where they explain the gags. I completely understand where
they are coming from on this one, but really? After the film?! Why not
before the film have a little disclaimer? It was lame and I'm sorry, it
ruins the movie because it's like having James Cameron doing a scene
after Titanic saying how the ship was CGI and none of the actors were
actually hurt, it takes away from the film. Honestly, if you're too
ignorant to explain to your children the difference between fantasy and
film, you shouldn't be a parent. My dad explained all the gags to me
when I was a kid and on top of that what kid can pick up a 20 pound
hammer and hit someone in the head with it? OK, I end my rant on that.
However, I think this film was a pleasant surprise and a pleasure to
watch and I can't wait to add it to my stooge collection when it comes
on blu ray.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of The Three Stooges since childhood, I wasn't sure how to
feel about this movie. Was Hollywood selling out a beloved franchise,
or was it actually attempting a faithful, big- screen tribute to one of
the greatest comedy acts of all time?

This film was everything I had hoped it'd be and more. When we get to
see the Moe, Larry and Curly that we all know and love, it feels like
running into a couple of old friends that we haven't seen in awhile.
While the appearances aren't dead on with the original Stooges, Sasso,
Hayes and Diamantopolous manage to capture the very essence and
mannerisms behind the original Stooges.

There's some very interesting character development for the character
of Moe, something I didn't expect to find in this film. There's also an
emotional depth and a light-hearted silliness that are present
throughout the film, something which made the originals so great.
There's a few questionable scenes here or there that don't quite feel
like they fit in the film, but somehow we get the impression that if
the Stooges could have gotten away with it back then they would have
done the exact same thing.

The eye pokes, slaps and head bonks are all the same as you remember.
They look authentic and when they are mixed with the original sound
effects, you'll find yourself laughing like you were a 10 year old kid
again. The Farrelly's obviously put a lot of work and research into the
film, and if their goal was to make a film that the original Stooges
would be proud of and that would inspire a new generation of Stooge
lovers, then they have succeeded.

Don't go into this film expecting it to top the originals. No one will
ever come close to them, and the makers of this film understand that.
Moe Howard was a man who always believed that the show must go on. When
Curly was replaced by Shemp, naturally the shorts wouldn't be as good
as the Curly ones, but they were still great on their own levels. The
same thing could be said when Shemp was replaced by Joe Besser, and
eventually Joe DeRita. Moe knew that the golden age of the Stooges was
the Moe, Larry and Curly era. That didn't stop him though, he always
continued the act, because he knew people needed the Stooges. Don't
think of this film as an attempt to top the originals, that's just
never gonna happen. Look at it was a faithful love letter to the boys,
and sit back relax and get ready to laugh like a kid again.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never really sat down and watched The Three Stooges but I'm
familiar with their work through their impact on popular culture.
Before watching this movie, I decided to give the original shorts a try
and I absolutely loved them. The humour is simple but brilliant. So it
made me slightly cautious before watching this, but it's absolutely
fantastic. The Three Stooges set out to save their orphanage by raising
over $800,000. They find themselves mixed up in an assassination plot
and Moe ends up on Jersey Shore. The actors and the Farrelly Brothers
have completely recreated the magic of the originals. The three stars
have their parts down perfectly, each of them doing bang-on
impersonations but not overdoing the mannerisms and voices. The
Farrelly Brothers keep the comedy innocent and even manage to bring
originality to having babies pee on people. The slapstick is fast and
well choreographed with a few puns thrown in for good luck. This isn't
trying to convert any new fans, and some old fans may be put off, but
they should know this is a perfect continuation of these characters.
The Jersey Shore scenes are very well done, using the cast as simply
punching bags. If you never liked this kind of humour, I doubt you'll
like this, but I adored it for its simplicity and innocence.
<|_=00=_|>
You know, when I read that Peter and Bobby Farrelly were going to make
a movie starring actors impersonating The Three Stooges, I was a little
skeptical especially when the announced stars were people like Sean
Penn and Benicio Del Toro. But they calmed down and instead cast actors
like Sean Hayes, Will Sasso, and Chris Diamantopoulos who did fine in
acting exactly like Larry, Curly, and Moe, respectively, when
portraying the legendary comics. And while there's somewhat of a
sentimental plot involving some orphan kids, it never goes in treacly
territory as there's always some wonderfully staged slapstick scenes
that undercuts that. Oh, and there's also some hilarious scenes
involving the cast of "Jersey Shore". In summary, this version of The
Three Stooges is highly recommended for anyone not minding seeing this
legendary comedy team played by other actors or anyone who haven't even
heard of them yet and wants to see more of them.
