
I hated (HATED!) being a waitress, but this movie is so hilarious and
so ballsy that it almost makes me want to go back to the summer of 1999
to work one more shift at TGI Fridays. Waiting is the best, most
accurate, most honest, and most riotously funny movie ever made about
the service industry. Here's how I see it  the world is divided into
two groups of people: those who have waited tables and those who
haven't. Those who have never worked a day of their lives in a
restaurant may find this movie amusing, but they'll think it's too
absurd to be real, and they'll probably never give a second thought to
this movie ever again.

But those of you who have felt the pain, degradation, and humiliation
of waiting tables will p**s your pants laughing at how PERFECT this
movie is. First-time writer/director Rob McKittrick has created a
dead-on depiction of 24 hours in the restaurant biz. The movie opens at
a late-night party with lots of underage drinking, smoking, and sex.
Then we see the wait staff hung-over at work the next day. The
restaurant they all work at is called "Shenanigans," but it looks an
awful lot like the TGI Fridays I worked at.

All the characters in Waiting are based on the real people who work in
every restaurant. There's the hot/slutty/underage hostess, the fat and
ugly cook who somehow dates a really hot waitress, the stoner/punk bust
boy, and the manager with the chip on his shoulder. All the customers
in this film (the cheap red necks who don't know how to tip, the b****y
women, the drunk and horny men) are all customers I've waited on. And
no filmmaker has ever so accurately portrayed the complex and
irreconcilable tension between the wait staff and kitchen staff.

But at the end of the night, no matter what drama unfolds, no matter
what dishes brake, and no matter how much money you make in tips (or
don't make), everyone gets wasted and parties together, and you all
know you're in it together. Waiting simply tells a story about a
profession that most people never give a second thought to. But it
tells that story flawlessly. Can't wait for the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
for anyone who has ever worked in a restaurant, this is it. for those
who ever wanted to know what its like, watch this movie. granted, this
is not the best movie ever made, but, you have to appreciate movies
like this. first and foremost, everyone in the cast worked so well
together that it actually seemed like they have worked in that place
together for a long time. plus, the movie tries to be nothing but
amusing, very few subplots and it doesn't dwell on them. its short, to
the point, and i know i missed a ton of lines from laughing so hard. if
you just want to be entertained for an hour and a half, i say check it
out, its worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was everything I thought it would be and more. It'll make
you laugh, it'll make you cringe. Most of all, it'll make you think
twice about eating at another restaurant or even working at one. Each
character is throughly enjoyable as is each interaction between them.
It's extremely well-written and realistic. As a waitress, I found it
completely therapeutic, because even though I'd never do anything to a
customer's food, seeing someone else do it to someone who is deserving
of it (even in a movie), is enough to make me feel better. Ryan
Reynolds is hysterical in this movie, as is Dane Cook and Luis Guzman.
There are so many one-liners that you'll hear for a long time,
especially in the kitchen of any restaurant. It ends slightly abruptly
and you find yourself wanting more...but I guess that means the writer
has done something right. Go see it, and enjoy. Just remember never to
break the cardinal rule: "Never, ever, f*ck with someone who handles
your food."
<|_=00=_|>
I've worked in Restaurants myself, so I know all the things that go on
in a normal day. This movie was really accurate... I laughed my ass
off. The only thing that wasn't really accurate was the "game" they all
played, but that is what made it even funnier! I can't believe they
actually made a movie showing all the things that servers, cooks,
dishwashers, hostess', and managers all do in a day's time. I actually
went to see this movie twice in theaters and can't wait for the day
that it comes out on DVD so I can own it. My best friends have a bet
that I will call off of work in order to go buy this movie. I believe
if you never worked in a restaurant before that you wouldn't get the
full effect of this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw previews for this movie, I expected a soulless comedy
about restaurant staff messing with customers. Although some people may
feel that way even after seeing it, I was pleasantly surprised. From
the introduction of 'the game' near the beginning of the movie, I knew
this was going to be more interesting and even more disturbing than the
previews.

Despite what appears to be rather thin characterization, 'Waiting'
succeeds at being a good character-driven movie. I am not sure why this
is. Perhaps what seem to be just childish antics add depth to the
characters without us realizing it. Some people complain that 'the
game' is a 10 second gag stretched out for the entire film, and on the
surface, this is true. However, the game is really more of a mechanism
for developing characters than anything on its own. The result is a set
of very flawed, but surprisingly likable characters. Also, the ending,
though a little abrupt, is entertaining largely because the movie does
a good job of setting up the characters and situation.

This movie is not for everyone. If you do not like 'stupid' humor, then
you will probably not be able to overlook that to enjoy the more subtle
aspects. However, once you get past that, this movie is more than the
sum of its parts.
<|_=00=_|>
FINALLY! A movie about young adults working at a restaurant. I am 21
and I've only worked in restaurants. Since I was 15, I've been a
busser, dishwasher, host, or a cook. And I have to say that this movie
is 100%, dead-on accurate. Not only was it flawlessly written and the
actors were natural and likable, but it also shows the people the other
side. People don't realize all the B.S. servers and cooks have to go
through every single day. So, the next time you chew out a server
because your steak is medium instead of medium-rare, just remember one
thing...We control your food, we can do whatever we want to it. So,
chill out and remember it's only food and it's not the end of the
world.

Funny, well-acted. Loved Dane Cook, Andy Milonakis, and Ryan Reynolds
of course; Justin Long, Anna Faris, Alanna Ubach(HILARIOUS!), and John
Daley who I haven't seen since Freaks and Geeks when he was a little
guy. This movie is full of priceless one-liners and your typical
coming-of-age moral without telling you it's a moral. 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Waiting' Ryan Reynolds plays Monty, the seemingly head waiter at a
Shenanigan's restaurant. Monty hates his job, like most, but he is like
a god at Shenanigan's and gets away with almost anything. His bud and
roommate Dean (Justin Long) is just a little more dissatisfied, but
starts to see things in perspective once he is offered an assistant
manager position.

This movie really is not that deep. In point of fact, it is hilarious.
I loved this film, but I cannot recommend it to everyone. It is full of
very crude humor (just the kind I like). If you combined 'Clerks' with
'Van Wilder' you would have 'Waiting'. Ryan Reynolds plays a very
similar character to 'Van Wilder', only much more vulgar. Both Luis
Guzmán (Raddimus) and Chi McBride (Bishop) are terrific in their
respected roles.

I did notice that the cinematography in this seemed poor, making it
look like a cheap film. But who cares? What this movie lacked in a
budget, it more than makes up for in laughs. Unless you are easily
offended, go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The people at Shenanigan's restaurant are an old mix of characters,
never making their jobs boring by the amount of shenanigans of their
own. Mitch is just starting and is taking the tour with Monty. Monty is
the friendly yet crazy work mate, making every moment at fun one. Dean
has hit a rut and questions why he still works at Shenanigan's, and
cant commit with a fellow employee Amy. Dean was also asked if he
wanted the assistant manager spot; to much of the content of others.
Serena and Monty were dating, but they have a friendship on fake smiles
and sarcasms.

The odd mix of characters of waiting make this such a wonderful. It's
just not focused upon the three main characters; Monty, Dean and
Serena, the background characters have their own personalities and
dilemmas, adding so much more story. The development of the characters
aren't fully developed, but you can still understand and sympathies to
their problems. The characters are clichéd; you have seen a lot of them
before; but they are so well placed and interact perfectly; there is a
realism to them.

The major point of Waiting is the black humor that runs through it. It
doesn't work off big set pieces and outlandish situations to make you
laugh, the humor organically comes out of the characters from their
dialog. A lot of the dialog is perverse, but it never seems out of
place. Waiting does perfectly reflect the relationship between customer
and waiter; well i did. Rob McKittrick unashamedly shows this
interaction; the smart-ass customer who always complains, the regulars,
and what could go behind the walls when the customers push to hard.

Ryan Reynolds brings another eccentric performance forward. He had been
stuck with that eccentric ego in a lot of movies; but he does it
perfectly and does another great job again. Anna Faris had finally lost
that ditsy persona and shows a broader range of acting; bringing a
great performance. Justin Long does have a puppy dog face a lot of the
time, but really comes forward in the more serious moments. All the
other actors as the employees all do wonderful performances, making the
background character more interesting.

Waiting is a great black comedy on hospitality that is so painfully
funny.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember that when this movie came out in theatres, people didn't
really know what to expect. And of coarse the movie bombed in the
theatres. Well when I bought this movie, I watched it and realized that
it is accurate, very funny and over really good. I have worked in a
restaurant myself and I know all the sick things that some chefs would
actually do. This movie just goes in depth on a day-in-the-life, of
normal people working in a small restaurant. It shows when the day
begins, all the way to the end of the shift. Another thing about this
movie that made it so funny was a game that the men of the restaurant
played. This game involves making somebody "unwillingly" look at their
package down below. Well as you can see, the movie is hilarious and I
definitely recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
In many ways this movie can be compared to another successful cult
comedy by the name of "Office Space". Both films are about what really
happens in a stressful working environment. While "Office Space" and
"Waiting" do share similar plots, first time director Rob McKittrick
seems to have more of a flare for slacker comedy than Mike Judge.

What also makes this comedy stand out is the great casting and colorful
characters. The always funny Ryan Reynolds leads the crew of misfits
including Anna Faris, Justin Long and the incredibly hilarious Luiz
Guzman.This movie can get a tad immature at times, but those who love
movies like "The 40-Year Old Virgin" and "Harold and Kumar Go to White
Castle" will absolutely worship this picture.
