

After engaging in an effort to find a good review - much harder than I
ever imagined it would be - and finding the movie listed at the bottom
of the barrel, I felt almost an obligation to go see this on opening
day - either to prove the critics wrong, or to get fodder for a
scathing letter to Jim Davis. I ended up with neither.

The problem, admittedly, is what some critics have said: Garfield is
old and busted. A walk in the theater revealed the new hotness: Harry
Potter. The movie is, sadly, 10 years overdue. Just look at the long
listing of Garfield TV specials, most of which are 1982-1992, and
"Garfield and Friends" began in 1988. It was delayed, I read, because
Jim Davis believed the technology wasn't there. It was; it's called
regular animation. Garfield is a 2-D medium, either on the comics page
or on animated cels. But, I guess, since no one does that anymore, 2004
couldn't have a 2-D Garfield.

The problem is not necessarily with the CGI Garfield and his actions,
although some of the characteristics displayed are not those I
associate with the cat. The problem is with the supporting cast who
look, by and large, not like their animated counterparts. Who made Odie
a wiener dog with talent? Why is Nermal Siamese and not the "world's
cutest kitty-cat"? Shouldn't Arlene be a lot nicer to Garfield? (By the
way, since Odie has no speaking lines in either the strip or show, the
movie's similar lack is accurate.)

The set design, in bright hues, can't decide whether it's in the real
world or in a real-life comic strip. Breckin Meyer ("Inside Schwartz")
is just not the right fit for Jon. He's too likable to be our
comic-strip loser. While I can accept the whole high-school-crush of
Jon and Liz on each other (something definitely not in the comic
strip), the payoff would have been better had the tension not vanished
prematurely.

The plot arc is not necessarily departed from all of Garfield. It fits
more in the mid-1980s, when the strip actually did have week-plus-long
plots. In one series, for example, Odie DID leave home, and Garfield
DID follow him, and they ended up running away from the circus
together. Those citing ripoffs from "Toy Story" and other similar
movies should note the 1982 TV special "Here Comes Garfield" shares
many elements of both movies and so this movie doesn't take from Pixar,
but rather from itself 20 years ago.

The comments that the strip has declined are not off-base. It's times
like this that remind me where I got my sense of humor. It came from
the politically neutral wit and social commentary of the late 1980s -
Garfield (both newspaper and television), Calvin and Hobbes, even the
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. That's why I can't disagree with this
line from the Chicago Tribune: "He's been declawed; the swiping humor
and Monty Python meanness of his early years have been surgically
removed for a PG audience, and with it, most of his appeal." And that
hurts.

Today, Garfield is trapped in a one-day-only three-panel set of running
gags that still make me laugh, but don't capture the same attitude of
years past. However, I still prefer it to the overtly political
commentary that you see today, found in strips like "Boondocks" and
others. The Garfield calendar on my desk still gives me laughs.

As for the product placements, yes, they were a bit much, but at least
part of the time they were well integrated. To those smacking the
"dated" references, it was a relief compared to "Shrek 2" to see them
come naturally instead of chock-full and fast-pitched.

Had a full-length movie been released around 1994, done by the same
animation team that did "Garfield and Friends," with Lorenzo Music
doing the voice, it might have been wonderful. Live action does not
suit the characters; the departure from 25 years of what we have known
is too much. The animated half-hour shows of the 1980s work so much
better that they might have been able to make more money simply by
scrapping the film and putting out DVDs. I hear "Garfield and Friends"
is going to be out on DVD, a TV show that captured the essence of the
strip at its peak so much better than this movie did. Those that liked
the show should buy that, and only rent this movie.

I wish that the networks would put "A Garfield Christmas" and some of
his other specials back on the air; it would build more interest in
him. I still love the character. The movie doesn't deserve to be ranked
as low as it is by the critics. At the same time, though, it reminds
you of how good it might have been. As Garfield has attempted to extend
its "brand" by licensing to Cub Scouts and 4-H, you can't help but
think it's grasping for an audience that never became fans like the
previous generation did.

6/10, because I can't bring myself to demolish a character that still
makes me laugh, even if his best work was from when I was young enough
to be in the target audience. And even that rating is being nice
compared to those who want this cat and its empire put to sleep.

<|_=00=_|>

I don't see why people blast this movie so much. It is funny, well acted
and well animated. Breckin Meyer plays the nerdy Jon very well and acts
like the pet loving dork that we loved so much in the cartoon. Garfield
looks amazing, almost identical to what he looked like in the cartoon.
Bill Murray is perfect to play him and his voice is similar to Lorenzo
Music. They included all the trates of Garfield- lasagne, TV and being
a lazy fat cat. Thye kept Odie the moronic but lovable dog. They kept
the fact that Garfield has an agreement with the mice and gets on with
them. They kept Liz the vet, which brings so much more to Jon. This is
a great kids movie, that i am sure adults who watched this as a kid
will love too.

<|_=00=_|>
All the years I've been a loyal reader of the Garfield comics, I never
had the impression it's merely meant for kids. On the contrary, most of
the dry humor and charismatic Garfield poses are difficult to 'get' for
young children. And yet, the film completely aims for a youthful
audience. I have no problem with a movie being pro-children, but this
is exaggerated and hardly accessible for adult viewers. The movie
totally lacks all the elements that make the comics so entertaining.
Garfield's clever and sarcastic remarks, Jon's clumsy womanizing
techniquesÂ… All this has been replaced with an unhealthy dose of
feel-good messages and lame jokes. The computer engineered Garfield
doesn't appeal and the other, real pets are badly chosen. The plot is
standard-sentiment, with Garfield saving his new housemate puppy from a
sneaky, fame-chasing TV host. Breckin Meyer (as Jon Arbuckle) and
Jennifer Love Hewitt (as the yummy vet Liz) walk around without
anything to do and Bill Murray voices Garfield like it's some sort of
dire job he wants to get rid of asap. The first (long-awaited?) cinema
adventure of everybody's favorite cat appears to be a quickly produced
and unprofessional flick soon to be forgotten. Too bad, since you're
left behind with the feeling they could have done something better with
this.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, i really liked the CGI incarnation of everyone favourite cat
and i thought Bill Murray provided his voice superbly, capturing his
character with perfection. Other than that though Garfield - the movie
failed to deliver the essence of the cartoon's produced by Jim Davis.
The humour in the original comic strips were entirely geared at the
adult generation, not the kids.

I knew the movie would cater for the younger viewer, but i felt that it
went overboard a little, and this was detrimental to the films
enjoyment. As a family movie it is entertaining, but Garfield - the
movie seems to have ignored the comedy that made him everyone's
favourite cat; only traces of it still remain.

It's worth watching as a family movie, but for fans of the Jim Davis
comic character, it's probably best left alone.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I think that this movie accomplished what it set out to do. I don't
know why so many people are hard against it. I think it's a very cute
movie, beings that I grew up reading Garfield comic strips and watching
Garfield and friends. I'm 26 and still am a kid at heart, what can I
say, I love cutesy little movies such as this. It won't win any awards
or anything, but I think it's great for the kiddies out there, or
adults who still have a kid in them. I rate this move about a 6 out of
10. Not too shabby. If you're expecting a movie the calibur of Toy
Story, Finding Nemo, them maybe this movie isn't for you. It's mainly
for children or fans of Garfield. Rest in peace, Lorenzo Music, you
will be missed and your voice matched perfectly for the loving fat
orange cat we've all grown to love.
<|_=00=_|>
What happened to the cartoon Garfield we've grown to love? Live action
mixed with CGI and a simple story line with an unimaginative script; I
guess small children are not expected to notice such. Garfield's
lasagna gorging and TV watching is slightly interrupted when his owner
Jon(Breckin Meyer)falls head over heals for an attractive
veterinarian(Jennifer Love Hewitt)that influences the adoption of a
puppy named Odie. When Odie is abducted, Garfield is compelled to drag
himself off the couch and search for the likable canine. Bill Murray
provides the voice of Garfield and is to put it mildly...a p-ss poor
fit for the clever actions of the lazy and lovable rotund feline. What
happened to Jon the nerd? And he sure shouldn't be deserving the
attention of someone as fine as JLH. This movie could have been much
more if done in the vain of maybe SHREK or FINDING NEMO. But no
doubt...the small fry will probably wear their copy out before entering
elementary school.
<|_=00=_|>

After engaging in an effort to find a good review - much harder than I
ever imagined it would be - and finding the movie listed at the bottom
of the barrel, I felt almost an obligation to go see this on opening
day - either to prove the critics wrong, or to get fodder for a
scathing letter to Jim Davis. I ended up with neither.

The problem, admittedly, is what some critics have said: Garfield is
old and busted. A walk in the theater reveals the new hotness: Harry
Potter. The movie is, sadly, 10 years overdue. Just look at the long
listing of Garfield TV specials, most of which are 1982-1992, and
"Garfield and Friends" began in 1988. It was delayed, I read, because
Jim Davis believed the technology wasn't there. It was; it's called
regular animation. Garfield is a 2-D medium, either on the comics page
or on animated cels. But, I guess, since no one does that anymore, 2004
couldn't have a 2-D Garfield.

The problem is not with Garfield, although some of the characteristics
displayed are not those I associate with the cat. The problem is with
the supporting cast who look, by and large, not like their animated
counterparts. Who made Odie a wiener dog with talent? Why is Nermal
Siamese? Shouldn't Arlene be a lot nicer to Garfield? The set design,
in bright hues, can't decide whether it's in the real world or in a
real-life comic strip. Breckin "Inside Schwartz" Meyer is just not the
right fit for Jon. While I can accept the whole high-school- crush of
Jon and Liz on each other (something definitely not in the comic
strip), the payoff might have been better had they not kissed after the
dog show.

The plot arc is not necessarily departed from all of Garfield. It fits
more in the mid-1980s, when the strip actually did have week-plus-long
plots. In one series, for example, Odie DID leave home, and Garfield
DID follow him, and they ended up running away from the circus
together. The comments that the strip has declined are not off-base.

It's times like this that remind me where I got my sense of humor. It
came from the politically neutral wit and social commentary of the late
1980s - Garfield (both newspaper and television), Calvin and Hobbes,
even the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. That's why I can't disagree with
this line from the Chicago Tribune: "He's been declawed; the swiping
humor and Monty Python meanness of his early years have been surgically
removed for a PG audience, and with it, most of his appeal." And that
hurts.

Today, Garfield is trapped in a one-day-only three-panel set of running
gags that still make me laugh, but don't capture the same attitude of
years past. However, I still prefer it to the overtly political
ultra-liberal commentary found in strips like "Boondocks" or some
others.

Had a full-length movie been released around 1994, done by the same
animation team that did "Garfield and Friends," with Lorenzo Music
doing the voice, it might have been wonderful. Live action does not
suit the character; the departure from 25 years of what we have known
is too much. The animated half-hour shows of the 1980s work so much
better that they might have been able to make more money simply by
scrapping the film and putting out DVDs. I hear "Garfield and Friends:
The Complete First Season" is coming out, a TV show that captured the
essence of the strip at its peak so much better than this movie did.

I wish that the networks would put "A Garfield Christmas" and some of
his other specials back on the air. I still love the character. The
movie doesn't deserve to be ranked where it is by the critics. At the
same time, though, it reminds you of how good it might have been.

7/10, because I can't bring myself to demolish a character that still
makes me laugh, even if his best work was from when I was young enough
to be in the target audience.

<|_=00=_|>
STUPID PLOT, BAD CHARACTERS, UNFUNNY.

You know I grow up on Garfield comics and cartoons, and when I heard
It's gonna' be a "Garfield Movie" I tough It's gonna' be awesome. No It
isn't. It's a really Bad version of all Garfield films what ever made!
The story is REALLY BAD:

Jon adopts Odie; an old bald guy called "Happy Chapman" kidnaps Odie,
and gives him to his show; Garfield rescues Odie and gives home. And
THIS IS THE *WHOLE* STORY!!! And NOTHING I *MEAN* NOTHING ELSE!

Garfiled IS NOT LAZY and he is DANCING (!?!?!?), Jon is not goofy
enough, rather a "faceles nice guy", Liz is not strict, rather an
"easy" woman, Nermal is TOO stupid, and Odie ISN'T LOOKS LIKE THE COMIC
VERSION! And the worst thing is: only Garfield is animated, while
Nermal, Arlene and Odie "played" by real living animals. The actors and
the acting was *quite good*, but the other things are forgettable.

JON NEVER GET THE WOMAN!

So,I don't like the film at all and I WILL NOT SEE THIS AGAIN!

As you can see EVERY times *THIS* happens, when some incompetent fools
makes movie from an old series or comic. I would rather see Garfield
cartoons, they are MUCH better!

3.5/10-Easyly forgettable
<|_=00=_|>

I was a bit scared to see my favorite feline in this new movie. Mostly
because I didn't see ONE trailer for the movie - that's usually a bad
sign in the movie business. I didn't even know that Garfield was the
only CGI character in the movie until just a few weeks ago when my son
bought a Garfield book based on the movie. That really shocked me. I
grew up with Odie, Nermal and Arlenne looking the way they did in the
comic strips and in the cartoons. At least Pooky looked the same!

There was a recycled animated short from 'Ice Age' called 'Gone Nutty'
before the movie - the same one that is on disc two of 'Ice Age'. Using
an older short from a two year old DVD release that, if you have kids
younger than ten, has been seen countless times already was, to me,
another bad sign. 

However, as far as the storyline went, it had the flavor of the
Garfield I know and love, but needed some extra seasoning. I heard a
lot of laughs throughout the movie, but I just felt that it could have
been better. Bill Murray was really good as Garfield. A great choice
for the role the late Lorenzo Music had perfected throughout the course
of the animated Garfield specials and TV series. 

If the movie studio would have made the decision to spend more money so
that all of Garfield's buddies were CGI too, that would have helped out
a lot. Definitely a lesson here for a movie company that wants to make
a movie about an cultural icon, but doesn't want to spend the cash to
make it look good. Details are important to the loyal fans. 6/10

<|_=00=_|>
Like I said before, I don't see the point in making live-action
versions of cartoons...All those lame adaptations are ugly and
unappealing, and always fail to capture the essence of the animated
works in which are inspired. At best, those movies could only capture
the most shallow and pragmatic aspects of the source material. This
movie is the ultimate proof of that being one of the most shallow, dull
and uninspired films ever made, lacking the sarcastic sense of humor
which made Garfield popular in first place. 

My advice is to skip this and watch "Garfield and Friends". This is
just stupid and boring.

0/10 (And I would rate it with a negative score if I could)
