
I went to see Raise Your Voice expecting the worst. What I left with
was a lump in my throat and a sincere admiration for this young
actress/singer Hilary Duff.

People are so hard on her and she just seems so unworthy of such
criticism. Sure it's a squeaky clean Fame...and it's kinda cliché.
But...the performances of Hilary as well as her supporting cast were
honorable. This movie certainly doesn't deserve the bashing it's
getting.

I was especially impressed with the young supporting cast including Kat
Dennings, Johnny K. Lewis and Dana Davis. Not to mention John Corbett
who by far was one of the greatest things in this film.

I cared...I cried...and when it was all over I honestly felt inspired.

I give this film a 6 out of 10...because it makes u care..it really
does.
<|_=00=_|>
In my review of "Cheaper by the Dozen"(2003), I mentioned the
difficulty Hilary Duff is going to have breaking away from typecasting
as Lizzie McGuire. The fact that this movie was a Brookwell/McNamara
Production, a staple of the cable network that made her famous may be
another obstacle from that typecasting. Make no mistake though --
Hilary Duff *IS* a talented actress and singer(in spite of corporate
punk pretensions), and even with this formulaic material she proves it.
But the way things are looking now, she couldn't break out of the
Disney universe if she did hardcore pornography.

Terri Fletcher(Duff) sings in a local church chorus, and for her own
personal enjoyment. She also thinks her singing can make her a star,
and so does her brother Paul(Jason Ritter) who secretly recommends her
for a scholarship to a school for the performing arts in Los Angeles.
But her father(David Keith) wants her to stay at home and wait tables
at the family diner. After she and her brother sneak out to go to a
concert one night, some drunk driver plows into them on the way home.
Her brother dies, she survives and is left with crippling flashbacks
and survivor's guilt. But just when she thinks she's going to have to
spend the rest of her life at the bottom of the barrel, along comes
that scholarship to the performing arts school she didn't even know she
entered. Of course, the only reason she doesn't want to go is because
she's afraid to face the wrath of Dad, so Mom(Rita Wilson) and Aunt
Nina(Rebecca De Mornay) tell Daddy she's going to spend time with her
aunt, while smuggling her off to that school. And the rest of the movie
involves Terri trying to make friends in the big city, cover-up her lie
to her father, and deal with her own fear of bright lights, courtesy of
that random drunk driver.

Too much about this movie is predictable; The overbearing father,
sympathetic avant-garde artistic aunt, the tragic car wreck, the
boyfriend with an ex-girlfriend who won't let go(who Terri catches
putting the moves on and thinks is unfaithful to her), and yes even the
triumphant concert at the end. Having said all that, I must reiterate
that I don't want my criticism of this movie to be interpreted as
another Duff-bashing tirade. Because regardless of the cookie-cutter
plot line, Duff is still outstanding. Yes, she's a better actress than
a singer, but both of these aspects of her are far superior to the
movie. And if you DON'T believe she can play anyone else but Lizzie
McGuire, you should've seen her in a highly publicized episode of Joan
of Arcadia from the Spring of 2005. So while it's nowhere near the
fluff-piece that her first big series was, it makes you wish there were
more parts out there that are better for her.
<|_=00=_|>
Hilary Duff stars as Terri Fletcher, a 16-year-old anxious to explore
her musical talent at a performing arts academy in L.A. for the summer.
After a little persuasion, she makes it there, and the movie is more or
less about her exploits therein.

The film starts well; the Three Days Grace concert helps set the
musical tone for the movie. That was an unexpected surprise, although I
suppose I'm partially biased since I like the band.

A beautiful performance by Hilary Duff. I am more and more impressed
with her with every movie I see her in. She brought me to tears twice
in the first twenty minutes of the movie. I was impressed by the
colorful array of teens at the school, even if they were chosen
primarily to make it believable that they're in L.A. I appreciated that
none of the teens were written to fulfill any particular stereotype and
all seemed like real people, for stereotypes are a sore spot for me, as
my teen years were not all that long ago. 

I loved the scenes with Denise playing the violin; again, very
refreshing and stylistic. John Corbett turns in a innovative
performance as a progressive music teacher, breathing a little more
life into the film.

The direction really helps to further the movie along, as it is pretty
anti-climatic. The 'unwanted kiss' was a bit predictable, however an
element of predictability is generally assumed in movies of this
persuasion. The make-out scene was completely unnecessary and should've
been cut.

And it should be noted that the film is more or less like a Crossroads
(2000) for a slightly younger generation, but despite that, it still
maintains its own life.

I absolutely love the last song in the filmthat was the perfect song
for the theme of the movie. And I don't care what anyone says, Hilary
Duff is a true performer, even if she isn't that great of a singer. She
just always has this glow about her, and no matter how I feel, seeing
her perform always makes me smile, and that's something to be
commended.

VERDICT: Very enjoyable musical film despite its predictability.
Recommended to anyone with kids, who's young at heart, who likes Hilary
Duff, or just needs a good smile, but be forewarnedyou might get a
little teary-eyed before that smile reaches your lips.

6.5 out of 10.0
<|_=00=_|>

In RAISE YOUR VOICE, Terri Fletcher(Hilary Duff) has always had a close
relationship with her brother, Paul(Ritter). When they sneak out to a
concert and get hit by a drunk driver(Terri survives the
accident,leaving Paul dead), she feels terrible. She then loses her
passion for singing. She was hoping to attend a summer music program in
LA, but her father(David Keith) says she can't go. Terri's mom and aunt
sneak her in and tell her father that Terri is spending the summer with
her aunt.

I am surprised that people didn't think this was a great change for
Hilary. All of her other roles were the same; but in this, her
character isn't all that different but the heartfelt script brings much
emotion into Terri's role, giving Hilary the opportunity to show
everyone that she can do a drama. She convinced me.

A lot of sadness is brought in through her brother's death. Hilary
Duff is good at crying and the rest of the cast is pretty good. Oliver
James is great at Hilary's boyfriend, Jay. And John Corrbett is fine as
the loose music teacher. 

Good job, Hilary. I hope to see a movie like this from you again:
smart, thematic, romantic, and humorous. Mostly the thematic.

PG- thematic elements, mild language, and brief sensuality.

<|_=00=_|>
I'm so sorry to see so much negativity about this movie. It's apparent
to me that people that don't see the value of it, just plainly don't
like Hilary Duff. Whether you like her or not, this movie has great
potential.

I am an adult with a teenage daughter, and I happen to love the
storyline...it showed great character in how some kids deal with
adversity. Never mind, that we all knew Hilary would be a great singer,
and how it was portrayed. So what? I enjoyed the storyline, and was
caught by surprise on the tragedy. Note in the end, the prize went to
her friend, and it was a great moment.

I guess I just enjoy a great movie when I see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was amazing!A lot of people don't like Hillary
movies but this one is worth seeing.There are parts that made me wanna
cry and other parts made me laugh.I think this movie is really
heart-warming so all girls should see it.Guys may like it too but I
think it's more on the chick-flick side.The issues with Teri are very
real and the movie is played out really well around them.I really
enjoyed watching it.Even if you don't particularly like Hillary,you
should still see it because this is one of her best movies.It's
different than her other movies and she really shines in this.Oliver
James is also very good in this movie along with the rest of the cast.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife convinced me to bring this fluff little movie home, and to tell
you the truth, I was disappointed for not so obvious reasons. Granted
this was just another teen-queen Duff vehicle that runs on sugar and
not gas, thus it doesn't get very far...

*****SPOILERS***** however, I didn't think it was appropriate for the
movie to take the tack that she lied to her father (David Keith) to get
into the summer program, then continue to lie to him to stay in
it...then the aunt character played by Rebecca DeMornay conspired with
the the mom (Rita Wilson) character to continue the lie against the
father. According to the movie, the ends justifies the means. This is
not a great message to teach the teens and preteens, that it's OK for a
kid to lie to their parents and that it's OK for a wife to lie to her
husband. No wonder this movie bombed like it did...well...there are
other reasons for it's failure. I also didn't buy into the setup of the
school, when stated that if you get caught doing things you're not
supposed to do, (i.e., drinking, etc.) you will be dismissed. Then the
Jay character (Hillary's on screen boyfriend) proceeds to go out
drinking after Hillary walked in on him and another girl
kissing...there are no negative consequences for him. I would have
liked to see Duff take a harder stance with the issue, especially in
light of the fact that her brother was killed by a drunk driver. The
wrong message is put forth in that it's OK to drink when you're
underage to cope with your problems, and the only consequence is
spending the night on the roof with Hillary Duff. Puh-leeeeeeeze! This
movie is horrible for kids today...and they had an opportunity to make
it enjoyable, although it has been done before with Fame. There was one
bright spot in the casting...Johnny Lewis, who plays a nerdy innovative
percussionist. His character was enjoyable to watch, and hindsight
20/20, I wish the movie had starred him and taken it from his
perspective.

I thought the hubris Duff showed in one interview I heard about was
tragic, she was quoted as saying that it was a challenge for her to
sing badly in parts of the movie to show her character's growth as a
singer...ha!!! My my my, aren't we full of ourselves!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie already expecting it to bomb, and boy was I right.
The acting is cheesy and bland. In one part, Terri Hatcher (Hillary
Duff) confronts Jay Corgon (Oliver James) after getting into some fight
tor hissy fit about something. He says : Lets go somewhere, I mean the
bag wont get up and go by itself" or something like that. Hillary
follows by saying "How do I know you wont?" GIVE ME A BREAK!!!!!! No
teenagers say that!! All the parts where Hillary was singing were
completely fake and you could tell she was lip syncing...proving that
she in fact cannot even really sing very well....

disappointing, I don't recommend it at all unless you are sick and are
only watching something so you can fall asleep.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so, we've got this great dramatic story about this girl with a
great singing talent, who pushes through her father's hovering and her
brother's death to get accepted into one of the premiere music schools
in the country.

Great. Who do we cast as the lead? Um, Hillary Duff? You're kidding me,
right? 

Anyone who can buy into the premise of Hillary Duff as a singing
prodigy needs to watch some American Idol reruns and realize that Duff,
who can barely carry a tune, would probably have not even made it to
Hollywood. She has made millions of dollars by pretending to act and
sing in order to market her cuteness and general likability, which has
been eaten up by her core fanbase of seven- to twelve-year-old girls.
The problem with Raise Your Voice lies in the very serious, dramatic
storyline crafted by writers Mitch Rotter and Sam Schreiber. It's just
too serious for Duff's fanbase, and she doesn't possess the acting
ability to make it believable for the rest of us.

To their credit, Rotter and Schreiber, along with director Sean
McNamara, did a very skillful job in putting together an engaging
drama. Some elements of the movie were brilliant, such as Terri's
reaction to bright light in her eyes after the accident. The movie was
just bogged down by its bungling cast of actors. The only truly good
performances were by some of the supporting cast members, such as John
Corbett, David Keith and Rita Wilson. Johnny Lewis was a terrific comic
relief, but his character's main story - a romance with an uptight,
virtuosic pianist named Sloane - seems to fit a more typical
giggles-and-good-times Hillary Duff movie. Duff's abysmal singing only
made McNamara's job even more difficult, and you can actually hear the
pitch correction on her voice at some points of the movie, which makes
everything seem that much more ridiculous. And something that
especially bothered me was Jay's (Oliver James) guitar-playing during
the scholarship performance. There was absolutely no rhythm to it at
all.

Overall, it's still a cute movie, but it could have been so much
better.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is by no means awful, but its not the best film made by
Hilary Duff to date. We've all seen Hilary in Lizzie McGuire and we
know what she can do. We are crying out for a new film that challenges
our own perceptions. Don't you think that its time to see Miss Duff
playing a character out of type.

Anyway lets talk about this generic film for a while. Hilary plays
Terri Fletcher and yes it does sound like the desperate housewife. Well
Terri has a great talent and she HAS to get a summer music school. But
her mean father won't let her, BUT THEN luckily for Terri her brother
dies so in a kind of well u can now but not really way she gets to go
to the summer school, (but don't tell dad). Its the usual story its
really hard to manage here blah, blah, but it all works out in the end.

AAH, this isn't really a film. It's just a nice story to watch for a
while but i promise you will think it was a waste of your life for the
seemingly endless number of minutes it takes up. I suggest you go out
and watch Mean Girls instead, its really much better. 

However having said all that if you love the Duff then this a film for
you. For the entire film she dances, crys, and smiles furiously. She
acts her little socks off in the hope of winning a Teen Choice Award.
