

Suspect Zero, a new mystery/horror/thriller/detective-FBI film, tries
to make a lot of twists and turns in telling a story that is perhaps
all-too-simple at the core. While the acting is fair by the leads
(Kingsley, as a man who may or may not be the suspect, plays a tortured
soul better than anyone I can think of; Eckhardt and Moss are credible
if maybe mis-matched), the script is something of a turn-off. Sometimes
it just doesn't make sense, despite a cameo from Robert Towne
(uncredited on this site) as a professor who tries to give a little
explaining to the FBI agent played by Eckhardt. It's not that the idea
of it isn't bad, but it doesn't engage a viewer in a way other
thrillers can.

What the film has going for it is the direction. This is E. Elias
Merhige's third film after his impenetrable art-house film Begotten
(arguably one of the most pretentious, deranged, if unique debuts of
the 90's) and small success Shadow of a Vampire (a film that gave
Malkovich and Dafoe excellent screen time as silent film icons). The
style is more than flamboyant- it's madness. Merhige tries his best to
get inside the atmosphere that this killer and it's tracker(s) are in,
and he succeeds by almost trying too hard. It reminded me of a kind of
avant-garde approach to directing one of those HBO thrillers you might
catch late at night. While he doesn't do a job as memorable as
'Shadow', and outside of Kingsley and maybe Eckhardt doesn't elicit
very good acting, him and Michael (Raging Bull/Taxi Driver) Chapman
bring out a technical aspect with tints and angles and shots that
aren't too diverting. 

It's the kind of film that misses the mark of great, twisted,
FBI-serial killer murder mysteries, and I would not seek it out to
rent, but it didn't leave too sour of a taste in my mouth, and I didn't
want to walk out of it midway either. It's average fare that could've
been better, could've been a lot worse. (strong) C

<|_=00=_|>
As I followed this film from beginning to end, I enjoyed the
revelations of the various twists and I felt that the film even seemed
to have a natural and proper progression to it, but at the same time, I
felt that there was something very large missing. I think that the
director ended up inserting the punchlines with too much subtlety, and
the acting was too routine, while the action was too constant to be
shocking or surprising... Whatever it may be, the film was lacking
something large. The combination of all of the above seems to kill the
feeling and plot of the film.

I couldn't help but feel utterly indifferent in some parts of the film
which are supposed to be exciting and thrilling, and this caused the
film to let me down. I am not sure who is to blame, but in the end,
this interesting plot with a lot of potential turned into 'just another
movie.'
<|_=00=_|>
Ripe with powerful imagery, "Suspect Zero" is a movie truly to be
watched. Imagery and symbolism are central components of this movie,
which pairs a simultaneously composed and tortured Ben Kingsley with
the equally composed and tortured Aaron Eckhart, each playing former
and current FBI agents trying to compose some meaning to the present
from the wreckage of the past.

They both have similar giftings - they are able to see the future.
Kingsley in particular is tortured by his inability to control this
gift.

A highly prolific killer is running around the country, picking up
children - dozens, probably hundreds of children. He tortures then
kills them.

We are never quite sure if Kingsley is this killer until close to the
end, though the truth is pretty much telegraphed throughout.

Eckhart is respectable as the straight-arrow FBI agent who went too far
and got knocked down a few pegs in his career. His obsession with the
case parallels Kingsley's and makes for an interesting contrast of
styles.

This movie falls on the side of intense. I admired the production
values, which called for hundreds of well-composed charcoal drawings,
many of which drive the plot. There is dark, sometimes demonic imagery,
though I don't think it's laid on too thick. The visual style reminded
me vaguely of "Seven," however no director can quite match Fincher's
unique visual composition and cinematography. All the shots are
carefully composed and the movie never really falters in its editing
and pacing.

This is a solid 7 stars. The premise was interesting, plot kept
engaging and apace by timing, and the acting solid all around.

Why not 10 of 10 in the rating? Perhaps because the movie ultimately
didn't strike me as anything special, even given its relatively A-grade
production and acting values. It was interesting, engaging, but
ultimately didn't seem to amount to much. The story arc seemed to go
off a cliff at the end.

Certainly, still, a worthwhile viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
I came out of this movie liking it a lot, but the more I think about
it, the more questions I have, and the worse my overall impression has
become.

The story concerns Tom Mackelway (Aaron Ecjhart), a disgraced FBI agent
who has just come off of six month's suspension for "forcibly
extraditing" a suspected serial killer from Mexico to the U.S. Now in
the Albuquerque FBI office, he soon starts receiving faxes of missing
person reports from person or persons unknown.

It turns out that there is a killer out there who has murdered at least
two people and is faxing clues to Mackelway. Following a trail of
mutilated bodies, and clues left for them, Mackelway and his partner
Fran Kulok (Carrie-Anne Moss) work to identify and find him. This
killer (Ben Kingsley) also has the ability of "remote viewing," that
is, seeing things from a great distance with his mind. He sends the
results of these viewing sessions to Mackelway, but why? That is one of
the many questions Mackelway (and the audience) have to answer.

This is one of those movies that I have very mixed feelings about. On
the one hand, the performances are all good, especially Ben Kingsley's.
I swear, it's getting a little boring at how consistently great this
guy is. It's too bad he doesn't make much of an appearance until about
the halfway point of the movie. E. Elias Merhige's direction is good,
but nothing memorable (although Kingsley's remote viewing sessions are
pretty intriguing). The failure of this movie comes with the script.
It's a mess.By the time the movie was over, there were so many loose
ends and unanswered questions that my sense of closure and satisfaction
was diminished somewhat.

Maybe I'm being a little hard on Suspect Zero, because there's a lot of
good here. Some of the ideas put forward are really intriguing. The
trouble is, there are too many of them and what impact some of them
might have had is diluted. But like I say, there's some cool stuff and
good performances, and the final confrontation between Kingsley and
Eckart is powerful. It certainly wasn't a waste of time so much as a
waste of potential.
<|_=00=_|>

I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and I thought the pacing was great. A
slightly (expected) corny Hollywood ending, but don't let that get you
down.

Comparisons with Seven and the Silence of the Lambs franchise are
correct. Also reminded me rather of "The Ring" (US version) in its
photography and "flashback"/recollection sequences. Ben Kingsley is
excellent as the tortured and almost demonic shadow - delighted to see
him finding darker roles at last (Sexy Beast, House of Sand & Fog).
Didn't like the FBI characters too much, but overall I thought it was a
gripping and well above average attempt at the well-worn serial killer
theme. Is Zak Penn related to Sean Penn?? Sorry to be idiotic....

<|_=00=_|>
I very much enjoyed the stylish way this serial-killer movie was
presented. It also gets high points for keeping ones interest all the
way.

Aaron Eckhart and Ben Kisnley are very good. Kinslgey, unfortunately,
doesn't appear until over halfway through but made up for his lack of
screen time with an intense performance. He's good at that sort of
thing (see "Sexy Beast" for another recent example.)

The story, claimed to be a true one out of U.S. military files, is
still a bit "suspect" to me, because I know Hollywood's hatred for the
military, but this could be true. Perhaps there was just a project, but
I am also skeptical of these ESP-type stories which the film world
loves to promote, along with any kind of occult theory.

Nonetheless, this is a very interesting film, nicely shot and an
underrated one since it never got much publicity. If you like crimes
movies, this movie is one to check out.
<|_=00=_|>
After a series of grisly murders FBI Agent Mackelway suspects that they
are linked. And that the killer may actually be after another serial
killer who may or may not really exist. Naturally, his colleagues think
that he is nuts, but that doesn't stop him from investigating.

This movie is a perfect example of flawed masterpiece. The plot is very
interesting. The plot twists are surprising. The performances are good.
The film's originality good enough to enjoy and the suspense is great.
However, despite this there is still something missing. Something so
critical that even though the film shines in many respects by the end
you feel like you could have gotten so much more. That missing element
would have to be part pace and part presentation. The film starts very
slowly, but picks up once more clues are revealed by Mackelway. Though
this is at least halfway through the movie. Then the presentation is a
bit weird. It makes the film standout from others, but it also makes it
confusing in parts, namely the beginning. Then by the time it is
finished you feel more like you have just watched a good X-Files
episode.

Overall it is a good mystery for patient audiences. --- 7/10

Rated R for grim violence
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has the makings of a cult favorite, mainly because it
refuses to be a crowd pleaser. The audience actually has to work at
following the story's build-up. Unfortunately, many want their movies
to be purely spectator sport, and will leave the theatre with less than
Suspect Zero had to offer them.

This is one of those movies that gets better with a second viewing,
giving the watcher a chance to pick up subtleties that are obscured
when one is trying to ride a complex plot to its resolution.

Director Merhige does an excellent job with atmosphere (who knew it
rained so much in the desert of New Mexico?)and keeps the moviegoer as
off-balance as Aaron Eckhart's FBI agent trying to piece together a
jigsaw puzzle that is literally nationwide.

The storyline itself is a great premise, and unfolds nicely. It's too
bad that previews and word-of-mouth gave away so much of the plot. If
we could have been drawn into the FBI's original theory that Ben
Kingsley was the dangerous serial killer-at-large, then each successive
revelation would have been that much more effective.

As it is, Suspect Zero is a solid, even innovative story, with fine
performances by Kingsley as the driven catalyst, Eckhart as the
straight-looking FBI agent trying to live down a past mistake while
trying to understand his own haunted psyche, and the underrated
Carrie-Anne Moss as the agent walking a razor's edge between supporting
her partner and getting dragged down again by his obsessions.

What has been lost to many critics is the comparison of the true serial
killer of the piece to a force of nature. The allusions to the '50-foot
shark' in the movie evoked other killing machines from Steven
Spielberg's 'Jaws' and 'Duel'. The fact that, in the end, the true
Suspect Zero was almost non-descript reinforces his threat as a cruel,
random killing force.

The movie also satisfies a darker sense of justice within us. Just as
Hannibal Lecter preys on the 'free-range rude', here we have an avenger
who is willing to meet the serial killer at his own animal level. Who
doesn't feel relief and triumph when the killer/rapist of an early
scene gets what he deserves, just in the nick of time?

For me, Suspect Zero rates 8 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>
Suspect Zero was almost never made. The screenplay by Zak Penn was
originally finished nine years ago in 1997. A lot of producers thought
the script wasn't good enough to be a motion picture, but they liked
the idea, or premise, of the film. So, later they tried to find other
screenwriters to make another version of the film, but that failed. So
nine years (or actually eight years  it was filmed in 2003) later,
they decided since they didn't have any other alternatives, to stick to
Penn's script, but make a couple of revisions. That alone, should tell
you Suspect Zero wasn't destined to be an Oscar contender.

Although, Suspect Zero isn't necessarily a good movie, it isn't a bad
movie either. When I walked into the theater on Friday afternoon, I was
expecting a messy, incoherent piece of amateur fluff. The only reason I
went to see the movie, was because of the brilliant Sir Ben Kingsley
(no matter how bad a movie he is in, he gives a good performance).
Well, the movie wasn't as jumbled and hard to understand as I would
have thought pre-screening, but it was still hard to understand. Even
though the story was involving and for the most part entertaining, the
screenplay had a lot of holes in it, and there were a lot of scenes
that were never made 100% clear. I was expecting Ben Kingsley to carry
the movie on his shoulders, but he didn't. That's not to say Ben
Kingsley didn't turn in another marvelous character study, but it means
Kingsley's character just didn't have a very big part. The film is
pretty much Aaron Eckhart's movie, and he does a kind of average job
with it. It isn't that Eckart is a bad actor, it's just that he isn't
really a great actor.

The supporting cast of the film is pretty much unnoticeable. Carrie
Ann-Moss (The Matrix series) plays the role she always plays ; the
strong, independent female with a crush on the leading male. Harry
Lennix is funny as the smart ass F.B.I. chief, for the few scenes he is
in. The rest of the supporting cast kind of runs together though.

The film tries to be too much like 1995's smash hit Se7en, but fails
terribly in matching up with the brilliance of David Fincher's
masterpiece. However, at the end the film (the last five minutes), the
movie achieves great power during the confrontation between Eckhart's
ambitious F.B.I. agent, and Kingsley's haunted serial killer. In
conclusion, Suspect Zero is about average and somehow manages to spend
most of the movie above the level of below average (thanks in part to
Ben Kingsley), but I think people should wait for video for this one,
and judging by the film critic's reviews of this movie, that won't be a
long time at all. (review written 8/28/04) Grade: C (screened at AMC
Deer Valley 30, Phoenix, Arizona)
<|_=00=_|>
I liked it. The filming is really good and the twists, while not really
enigmatic, are good enough to grasp your attention. Eckhart gives a
good performance here, and he's really believable as the FBI officer in
search for the truth. Kingsley on the contrary seems not at his usual
standard, but this is also a consequence of the weirdness of his
character. The start is really good, from the cinematic point of view
too: you'll think it's a classic horror movie (which is not the case).
The ending is not at par with the first 4/5 of the movie but at that
point you'll be willing to forgive the director because the rest of the
movie is OK.
