
It's a shame when a movie tries so hard to be funny but no one laughs
at it. I went seeing this with expecting for a couple hours of light,
predictable and forgettable fun, but instead of that I got a pointless
sitcom that fails miserably at being funny or dramatic.

The main problem with Rebound is that it never comes together; it's
that kind of movie that is sorta made by two directors with opposite
purposes: light-hearted humor and deep thoughtful drama. So, the whole
film is like a struggle between these two visions, and none comes to
win. Unfortunately, viewers become the great losers with all this mess.

Megan Mullaly makes a good job of her role, though Martin Lawrence
looks uncomfortable and overwhelmed by his. I have read some good
reviews about Lawrence's performance, but I have to disagree on that
one. I think that this is one of his worst performances, totally
unfunny or whatsoever.

For those who defend this film saying that is a kid's movie, I should
defend children's rights to have intelligent options, like Pixar and
Dreamworks had been doing lately. There is no excuse for showing dull
and naive movies only because "it's for the children"...
<|_=00=_|>
Too many critics seem to be expecting more from "Rebound" than it tries
to offer. This movie is what it is - a simplistic, fun family movie
aimed at kids - nothing more, nothing less. The filmmakers weren't
trying to create "Casablanca 2" here. As a family movie, it succeeds at
producing enough laughs to entertain the kids and keep adults from
getting too bored.

There are certainly elements in the movie that could've been better.
It's WAY too formulaic and predictable, the scores in the games before
Coach Roy arrive are totally unrealistic, and quite frankly, there are
several actors who would've been funnier in the role than Lawrence. But
the kids are very well cast, and do a real good job with the material
they're given. There are many genuinely funny bits, and Megan Mullally
is an absolute hoot in her role, which was far too small.

So if you're looking for the next great cinematic classic, keep
looking. But if you want a fun family movie that's suitable for the
kids, check out "Rebound."
<|_=00=_|>
The filmmakers in Rebound diligently stick to the prescribed "kids
sports movie" formula, and desperately hope that Martin Lawrence
provides a flicker of spunk.

I can't give Rebound more than two stars, not because it was
necessarily bad, but because it was painfully predictable. It dares not
stray from the tired but true progression of, "a small team of misfits
is matched up with a reluctant savior, who inevitably leads the team to
victory only after learning a valuable lesson." In this case, the
reluctant coach, Roy McCormick, is played by Martin Lawrence, who
attempts to single-handedly provide some unique quality to this film in
order to distinguish it from all other kid movies. He fails.

Roy McCormick is a hotshot college basketball coach with an outrageous
temper and passion for endorsement deals. The audience is repeatedly
shown how out of touch with basketball Coach Roy has become by showing
many examples of his advertisements, his flashy car, his expensive
suits, etc. We are even treated to the routine clips from "The Best
Damn Sports Show," where Tom Arnold proclaims that Coach Roy is losing
it. After we have firmly established that Roy is in fact out of touch
already, we get the inevitable temper tantrum that results in his
expulsion from the league. Coach Roy then reluctantly agrees to coach a
struggling junior high basketball team. This brilliant plan will
supposedly help him rebuild his reputation, thereby allowing him to
gain readmittance to the league. Because apparently, the best way to
gain credibility as a basketball coach is to instruct reject junior
high kids, at which point one will just be rolling in offers from the
NBA.

We watch as Coach Roy methodically teaches the kids how to play
basketball, one skill at a time, through a series of over-dramatic
techniques. He brings in a weird hoodlum preacher who is not funny at
all and looks suspiciously like Martin Lawrence dressed up as a hoodlum
preacher. He scours the student body for a very tall kid who is also
clumsy in a humorous way. He also recruits a large girl to the team, as
she is Susie-Likes-to-Fight, and Roy thinks that if things get rough,
he can always channel his inner John Chaney and send her out to pummel
someone. The audience laughs because she's a girl! Haha, get itÂ—she's a
girl! And all the while, goofy and upbeat music plays helpfully in the
background, reminding us that this is a stupid kid's movie.

There's the romance factor of course, with Coach Roy trying to get a
date with one kid's mom. There's also the slapstick assistant coach
(played by SNL cast member Horatio Sanz), who bumbles around hoping to
provide supplemental humor when basketballs slip out of his grasp and
fly in all directions; there's the overzealous opposing coach who
thinks junior high school basketball is as important as college or
NBA--but then again, can you really blame the guy? After all, the film
has already established that coaching junior high school basketball is
a direct path to the big leagues.

Needless to say, this movie is tiresomely predictable, but not
necessarily bad. I know that kids will like it, so I would recommend it
as a very family-friendly movie. It definitely has the "cute factor,"
in that sense, but those of us who are not 13 may not see the same
value in Rebound.
<|_=00=_|>
If Hollywood wants to know why theater attendance is off they need look
no further than this movie. The problem is not they are making bad
movies, they're simply making movies you feel ripped off for having
paid ten bucks to see. Once you get over the shock that you've paid too
much for what you're seeing, Rebound is actually a good little movie.

Rebound tells the story of Coach Ray, a highly paid NCAA basketball
coach who ends up banned from coaching for bad behavior. With no other
options open to him he ends up coaching back at his old junior high
school where things take mostly predictable, but enjoyable turns. For
example the team is so bad at basketball it hasn't won a game in twelve
years, and is made up of the typical assortment of kids who don't know
left from right, so even though you know whats going to happen but you
don't mind because Lawrence and the kids are fun to watch. And while it
strives and fails to be a Bad News Bears of basketball, it is an
enjoyable movie on its own terms. Just wait for DVD or cable, because
paying 10 bucks a head to see this will spoil your enjoyment of whats a
nice funny little movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I always felt that the problem with Martin Lawrence movies is that the
scripts always limit all of the raunchiness and outrageous humor that
makes Martin Lawrence funny. Bad Boys I is probably the only movie that
parallels the comic potential that you can find in Lawrence's stand-up
acts. Otherwise, the moviegoer will only see a fraction of the
comedian's talent.

I walked into the theater expecting to see another terrible Martin
Lawrence movie, but I was surprised that this film was somewhat
enjoyable. Being rated PG, Rebound checks Lawrence's ability to offend
through his usual graphic language, but Lawrence actually shows that he
can be funny and gentle at the same time, relying on easygoing charm
and witty dialogue to appease the audience. One of the prime examples
of this is a scene where he is teaching a kid not to be a ball hog on
the court. He makes his point in a way that is charming, smart, and
funny. Another scene is where Lawrence plays a secondary character, a
street preacher who gives the middle schoolers a pep talk before a big
game. A similar scene was used in Blue Streak, but unlike in that
movie, this scene works, mainly because the audience gets to see an
unsuspecting, straight-laced Martin react to a more sketchier version
of himself. It's a clever device that is guaranteed to generate some
laughter. So why did I give this movie only five stars? The problem
falls mainly with Rebound's poorly-written script.

Martin Lawrence stars as a once great college basketball coach, whose
short temper causes him to be kicked out of the league. In order to
redeem himself, he takes up a coaching job at his old middle school to
prove to the NCBA that he is not only as good of a coach as he was in
his prime but a charitable one as well. The school's team is a group of
misfits that can never seem to score a single basket in any of the
games they play. Will Lawrence bring the team to victory? While the
premise is promising, the delivery is weak and lacking substance.
Lawrence is supposed to be a Bobby Knight-type coach and seeing him
throw tantrums in the Martin Lawrence style we all know and love would
have been hilarious to see. But the problem is that we rarely see
Lawrence carry this angry persona. In fact, his so-called emotional
outburst appears accidental when he kicks a ball at the opposing team's
mascot. Is this reason enough to expel him from the league? Aside from
this err in the plot, the rest of the movie feels a bit rushed. Every
time a scene begins to ascend in humor, it abruptly ends and goes onto
another scene. As a result, Lawrence wins the trust of the middle
schoolers too quickly, he brings the underdogs onto a winning streak
too quickly, he decides that he loves coaching middle school too
quickly. Plus, Lawrence wins the heart of one of the kid's mother ALL
TOO QUICKLY! Better pacing along with a couple of twists would have
made for a better film.

Aside from Lawrence's strong performance, Rebound's young cast delivers
as well. The chemistry between Lawrence and the kids is great, and
their characters are well-developed. However, the rest of the adult
cast feels wasted. Patrick Warburton puts in a lot of energy in his
performance but he doesn't have anyone to play off. Megan Mullally is
hilarious as the sarcastic school principal but she seems to vanish
halfway through the film. I felt that Rebound would have benefited from
more interplay between her and Lawrence. Seeing these two wacky
comedians bump heads would have been fun to see. Breckin Meyer does a
decent job as Coach Roy's shrewd agent, but you get the feeling that he
probably has something better to do. Wendy Raquel Robinson is a
suitable love interest for Martin and does her job well. But as stated
before, her character falls for Martin a little too fast to be truly
believable. Sadly, Horatio Sanz is given very little to do.

Overall, this movie was decent and provided some great insights on
learning to work with others cooperatively despite personal
differences. Everything else feels a bit forced and redundant. Martin
Lawrence proves that he has a superb screen presence and broad comic
appeal but it will take more than this poorly written piece for him to
rebound and get back into the game.
<|_=00=_|>
College basketball coach Roy McCormick is almost banned for life due to
his aggressive behavior, but as his agent finds a clause in the rules
that he must have another chance first, he ends up training a middle
school team, the Mount Vernon Junior High School Smelters. As those
movies go, after a few confrontations everyone works together to become
champions. Add a love interest for the coach and some diversity in the
characters of the team.

One of the more funny scenes involves shy Wes and over-assertive Big
Mac (this time not meant as a product placement I hope) ending up in a
romance. Another thing well done is the way the coach instructs his
team. Like in Coach Carter he takes time to learn the middle school
team about passing, communication and rebounding. Martin Lawrence tries
hard but lacks the comedy skills Eddie Murphy has. He even plays more
than one character like Murphy did in Coming to America.

Most Hollywood movies only get a bad treatment just because they are
made in Hollywood. But Rebound gives those Hollywood-haters exactly the
ammo they wish, as it is the kind of formulaic movie that has not a
shred of intelligent writing, storytelling, directing or acting to be
fond of (and being a kid's movie is not an excuse for that). The story
has been told so many times that Rebound is boring to the extreme, as
there is total predictability.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot to Rebound has been done so many times. It's one of those
films you know what will happen and when it will happen. You know in
the end everything will work out after the main character has learned
his lesson and decided to do the right thing.

In this case, Martin Lawrence plays a superstar college basketball
coach, Roy, who gets banned from the NCAA for killing a mascot, a bird.
The only job he can get is at a junior high. The team he's coaching
haven't won a game in years. After getting to know the kids and plus
finding out if he can start winning he'll be let back in the NCAA,
Coach Roy decides to take the job seriously. Of course, one of the kids
has a hot mom he pursues. Like a kids movie like this even needs a love
interest.

So he takes a team that loses by over 100 and they start winning. He
enjoys what he's doing. Then he gets the offer to back to college
coaching. Of course, now he's this new guy and fame and money aren't
everything. So unbelievable he turns down the job to continue to coach
at a junior high. That's silly.

FINAL VERDICT: Overdone script. Not that funny. I'd say this movie is
only for kids into sports.
<|_=00=_|>
Rebound/2005/***

Main Stars: Martin Lawrence Oren Williams

Breckin Meyer

Martin Lawrence definitely brought the laughs in this movie. There were
other people that were funny but mainly Martin Lawrence was. This movie
is all about basketball and barely anything else. Roy McCormick (Martin
Lawrence) gets fired from coaching college basketball because of his
maniacal temper tantrums. Now he has to coach 13 year old kids in a
middle school. At first, it was bad for Roy but then he became more
patient and better to the kids. It's difficult to explain why I liked
this movie but it was just funny and I really was into it for some
reason. Movie directed by Steve Carr.
<|_=00=_|>
The story has been done many times before, it is very predictable.
Martin Lawrence adds a lot of funny moments, actually the whole movie
is a great comedy. It is also a mood lifter, great for kids, many
lessons about winning and loosing. Any one can be a winner, is one
lesson. It is also a great lesson in leadership for adults, it is the
leader who make superstars out of average individuals. How many famous
people today are only successful because of their manager or their
coach? may be people should leave a bad leader and move on. Of course,
the main character self destructs because of arrogance, he hits rock
bottom, but then he was able to go back to what made him successful the
first place and he was able to enjoy the challenge again and enjoy
life: no luck here, just a formula. Yes I liked this movie despite the
mediocre acting and the predictable story, I thought a lot of people
will too because they will be able to relate to one or more of its
characters
<|_=00=_|>
Rebound is a film where its prefix "re" can apply to a lot of
adjectives used to describe the quality of the final product. For one,
it's a retread of a formula that needs some reworking, and it's gotten
to the point where the film industry should reconsider this
unattractive and wholly uninteresting formula be retired.

But why bother retiring a successful formula? Even though Rebound was a
pretty hefty financial failure, the demand for these kinds of cheery,
harmless family films is quite high. For one, they are the best kinds
of babysitters, for they keep the little ones marginally silent for an
hour or two and don't need much explaining, and secondly, they are so
innocuous to the point where very few, if any, jokes, innuendos, or
references need be explained. These kinds of films bathe in their own
clichÃ©s, and usually drag the leading actor or actress down with their
lackluster conduct.

Rebound is unfortunately not an exception; it's a miserably safe
affair, so much so that the jokes feel like they were rewritten a few
times over in act of screen writing desensitization to make sure
nothing dirty snuck through. You know the plot by simply looking at the
film's poster, so there's not much purpose in reiterating its contents.
Martin Lawrence plays Coach Roy McCormick, a once respected and
dignified college basketball coach turned endorsement-mongering
sellout, who gets kicked to the curb by the NCBA after his latest
episode involves the death of the opposing team's mascot's pet bird,
McCormick's manager (Breckin Meyer) is now scrambling to find McCormick
some sort of coaching opportunity to which he responds to a request for
a rag-tag, middle school basketball team by the name of the Mount
Vernon Smelters, who haven't won a game in years, much to the
principal's (Horatio Sanz) dismay. McCormick does the gig for free to
show that he is in it for the kids and the love of the game, and it
becomes unsurprising when we see McCormick actually develop a love and
appreciation for the students of Mount Vernon Junior High School, in
true, predictable film fashion.

Even after summarizing the basic idea of the plot, the mean-spirit of
the film's leading character just sticks out to me more. Here we have
another leading male in a film who we are supposed to resonate with and
support after he throws a colossal temper-tantrum and is
passive-aggressive to a group of misfit tweens he is now forced to
coach. If it wasn't the attitude on our lead character that was such a
deal breaker to this film, the abundance of indifference is the nail in
the coffin. Now, predictability doesn't always have to be a bad thing,
for just because you predicted the ending or a certain plot-twist to a
film shouldn't corrupt the surrounding elements of a movie entirely.
However, when a film is erected from the ground-up on what seems to be
nothing more than petty formula is when this becomes my main complaint.

Rebound is one of those films; a film so content on striving for
mediocrity that it manages to be almost instantaneously forgettable all
around. Further mix in elements that come directly from The Bad News
Bears to the point of almost being classifiable as a rip-off or
plagiarism, to not developing any of the children Coach McCormick is
sent to coach, and seal the deal with grating sentimentality at the end
and you have the recipe for a disastrous and unsubstantial family
affair. With the wealth of invaluable film entertainment geared towards
families made only more readily accessible by Netflix and other
streaming services, you'd be beyond foolish to settle for the
incorrigible rehash that is Rebound.

Starring: Martin Lawrence, Wendy Raquel Robinson, and Breckin Meyer.
Directed by: Steve Carr.
