
Horror movies have become a dime a dozen in the past few years. The
watchable ones seem to fall into two categories of late: misguided
psychological thrillers headlined by a consummate actress (witness
Naomi Watts in "The Ring 2" or Jennifer Connelly in "Dark Water") or
over the top slasher/gore-fests with serious kitsch value (witness
Romero's enjoyable zombie flick "Land of the Dead" or Rob Zombie's
sadistic "Devil's Rejects"). All of the rest have pretty much been
unbearable cliché-ridden hack jobs ("White Noise," "Darkness Falls,"
etc...) 

Oddly enough, "The Skeleton Key" doesn't fall into any of these
categories and it comes across as a breath of fresh air, an
old-fashioned throwback to the traditional Gothic mystery thriller,
where a pretty female outsider (Kate Hudson acquitting herself rather
nicely here as the hospice nurse traveling deep into the Bayou to care
for an apparent stroke victim) moves into a big old house/castle that
just might be haunted. The director and screenwriter start things
slowly, and do a nice job of creating a realistic setting before
letting all the mumbo-jumbo slowly and effectively creep in. Gena
Rowlands and John Hurt (immobile and mute for most of the film) are
fairly good in their respective roles as the married couple with more
than just skeletons in their closets. We've seen this stuff all before,
but it's done fairly well here with no sense of flash or pretensions,
and as silly (and potentially offensive) as all this Hoodoo in the
Bayou stuff is, the audience is treated to a twist ending that makes
perfect sense in the context we have been given. This isn't a twist
ending for twisting sake, but a fitting conclusion to the story.

"The Skeleton Key" tries to remind people of classics like "Rosemary's
Baby" and "The Others." It may not ultimately hold a candle to those
films, but it's a very entertaining way to spend a few hours.
<|_=00=_|>
Part of the success of this type of movie is setting up and making sure
its resolution lives up to its expectations. I must say that in this
film everything seems to work, and yet... I'm not sure what spooked
more: its ending or the nature of its ending.

The film deals with the adventures of a young care worker in the middle
of Louisiana. The atmospheric surroundings, the haunting score,
beautiful, spooky photography, and some very good acting by Rowlands
and Kate Hudson raise the bar for upcoming "horror films". We're glued
to the screen for nearly two hours, as things become more mysterious
and intriguing. A few times we're treated to a jolt and a revelation,
but what closes the film is bound to ruffle a few feathers.

Above all, this is a very good movie, with a script that doesn't cheat
anyone and doesn't rely on silly gimmicks. Those factors should portend
good tidings for its success in its original release, but it will
probably become a classic of its kind. The heroine in distress manages
to be smarter than the usual stereotype. She wants to explore the
surroundings and solve the problem. The problem is she has no idea how
bad the situation might be.

Gena Rowlands provides her character with nuances rarely seen in this
type of film. She is a strange character and hooks up the audience from
the very beginning. There is no really an archetype for what Rowlands
brings to life. A few might find the previous statement questionable,
but if you look closely to the development of her character, it is
almost an original.

Kate Hudson makes a very strong impression in this film. She goes
beyond the pretty actress to an accomplished performer who matches up
to Rowland's intensity. She navigates the film with an ease rarely seen
in today's roster of plastic pre-packaged pseudo celebrities. It is
refreshing to see an actress make you care for the character that has
so often been portrayed as an offensive stereotype. There no
gratitude's screaming scenes here. The film reminds me of "The Others",
a movie with substance and intelligence.

This is a film that I will highly recommend to my friends, particularly
because I want to hear what they have to say about that ending.
<|_=00=_|>
In case you haven't seen "The Skeleton Key" yet, be very careful when
reading any reviews... The less you hear, read or even know about this
film the better, because I assure that you don't want to pick up any
spoilers about this surprisingly original and ingenious horror-story.
"The Skeleton Key" is an old-fashioned, powerful and  above all  well
written haunted house thriller with great acting, macabre scenery and a
shocking twist-ending that stands as one of the best I've ever seen in
modern cinema. Beautifully set in the swampy region of New Orleans
(morbidly enough, I saw this film shortly after the hurricane Katrina
disaster), the story introduces a young nurse who moves into the
ominous Deveraux mansion to look after its dying owner Ben. He had a
nearly-fatal stroke in the dark attic of the house and, even though it
looks like it was because of his old age, Caroline soon starts to
suspect that something (or someone) nearly frightened him to death.
Ben's wife Violet behaves very strangely and the old house's vicious
history forces Caroline to investigate what could have happened. She
discovers that the earliest occupants of the house practiced Hoodoo,
which is a more spiritual variant of Voodoo... That's really all you
can say about the story without giving away essential clues but, trust
me, the rest of the film is definitely worth checking out yourself.
Fans of atmospheric ghost stories (such as "The Others" or "Angel
Heart") will particularly enjoy this film as it contains almost no
graphic violence or gory monsters. Instead of blood, there's a wide
collection of truly eerie set-pieces and subtle frights. Kate Hudson
delivers a great performance, especially because she's not really
familiar with the horror genre. She receives good feedback from Gena
Rowlands, Peter Sarsgaard and  of course  John Hurt. The latter is
always genius, even when he hardly has any lines. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Good performances all round. Good locations. Quite a lot of restraint
on the writer's/director's part, building the chills in a more classic
70's way than out-and-out ghosts and scares. In fact, a few more scares
after the half-way mark would have been welcome; if the ghosts were
used any less, they wouldn't be in the film! The reason I've only rated
a 6/10, is because it's so predictable. If you've seen any thriller set
in the Deep South, you've seen this one. The background story is
textbook 'New Orleans' voodoo vengeance, the characters' motives are
obvious from the second they appear on screen, and the solid but
pedestrian cinematography means that the locations are massively
underused. If you've got a decrepit colonial mansion with antique
furniture, surrounded by swamps and trees draped in that Lianna/lichen
stuff, you've got to be pretty boring NOT to make it all seem brooding
& scary - which is unfortunately what they've done.

Kate Hudson is really switched-on, and not your average dumb heroine.
There's even one (small) moment where I think I saw a conscious attempt
to subvert the conventions and have her do something quite intelligent
while in a perilous situation. It's not a big thing, but I noticed.
John Hurt is surprisingly effective, really 'working' his eyes and
body, considering he's had a stroke (in the film). Gena Rowlands and
Peter Saarsgard are fine, but their performances are hampered by the
'all too obvious' script and direction. Joy Bryant is gorgeous but her
character is nothing more than a device to give Kate slightly more
personality and a convenient person who can explain about
hoodoo/voodoo.

Before I shut up, it's important to say something about the ending
(without giving anything away). I'm not talking about the 'third act' -
that's a bit OTT, as often happens in horror/thrillers - I mean the
final scene.. Although the film as a whole is predictable and doesn't
quite live up to its potential, the final scenes wrap up the story
nicely and will put a grin on your face.

If you've not seen a lot of horror/thriller films, you'd probably give
Skeleton Key a 7 or 8 out of 10 - it's coherent, not too long, and
fairly enjoyable (like I say, Kate Hudson & Gena Rowlands are really
good). But I have seen a lot to compare it to, so 6/10 it is. Which is
still worth watching on a dull afternoon, or on a rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the lacklustre trailer for this film, I wouldn't have
bothered to see it at the cinema if it wasn't for some very positive
reviews here in the UK. It isn't the most original film and the ending,
while good, isn't gob-smacking. But it is very well shot and has some
strong acting performances in it. Kate Hudson is particularly good as
the inquisitive nurse. Her character generally doesn't need to be told
things twice and I liked the way her thought processes appeared
logical. I felt like she was doing what I'd have done in her
circumstances. I've never been to the Southern USA, but the sets and
locations felt very atmospheric. I'm sure to folks from those parts it
looked a bit hackneyed, but to a UK viewer it felt mysterious and
brooding. Overall, a very enjoyable was to spend an hour and a half.
See it in the cinema, as I feel that the pacing and atmosphere could be
lost on a small screen in a living room.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "The Skeleton Key" back in August 2005 during it's theatrical
run, and I can say it was one of the better horror/thrillers of the
year. 

"The Skeleton Key" is about a young hospice worker named Caroline Ellis
who decided to take a caregiving job outside of New Orleans deep in the
bayou. She will be working for Violet Devereaux, and will be taking
care of her bed ridden husband, Ben. Caroline senses something eerie
about the old plantation house, and begins to uncover a strange chain
of events and incidents after opening a secret room within the attic.
In the attic are all kinds of strange things, and strangest of all and
old record called 'The Conjure of Sacrifice'. Caroline begins to
suspect something isn't going right within the home. She asks her
friend Jill who explains that the attic is probably a Hoodoo room, and
tells Caroline that Hoodoo is folk magic, and it can't hurt you if you
don't believe in it. But if Caroline dares believe in what she has been
exposed to, it can ultimately destroy her. Could there be ghosts within
the old home? Or could something else even more sinister be going on? 

I can't say a whole lot about this movie, but trust me you will be
pleased with it, and the ending will surely shock you. It has to be one
of the greatest twists I've seen in a movie, and came completely
unexpected. When you think you know what's happening, everything is
completely reversed, and I have much respect for the writer of this
film, who incidentally wrote 2002's hit "The Ring". I think this film
is by far better though.

The movie sets a very creepy tone and atmosphere, with all the imagery
of the Spanish moss, etc. Director Softeley uses lots of southern
imagery to add a certain texture to the movie. Also the record featured
in the film, 'The Conjure of Sacrifice' is very creepy, listening to it
can give you the chills. Kate Hudson is excellent as our main
character, and Gena Rowlands was perfect for the shadowy yet friendly
old woman. John Hurt is great too, speaking hardly one word throughout
the whole movie, yet giving a perfect performance by mannerisms and
facial expression. How many actors can do that? 

I think one of the reasons this movie appealed to me so much was
because it took place in the South, and I've always been fascinated
with places like that, but overall I think anyone can enjoy the movie -
it has great acting, an excellent story, and some pleasingly creepy
moments. But don't expect some blood and guts horror film, this movie
builds tension and suspense rather than drench us with blood, it isn't
that type of horror film. "The Skeleton Key" is an excellent
Southern-Gothic mystery, compelling all the way through. They don't
make many of 'em like this. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Character development was great, acting was excellent, well written,
well directed and just an all around well put together movie.

A health care worker decides she can't provide the kind of care to her
patients she wants to provide within the cold confines of the nursing
home she's working in. She opts then to take a job caring for the
husband of a very strange woman in their even stranger home. She soon
discovers that this couple seemingly has a strong belief in hoodoo (a
variant of voodoo), and as she investigates further the ailment
afflicting her new patient, and the disturbing behavior of his wife, a
series of terrifying events unfold. Great plot twists, and an
unexpectedly original surprise ending. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Intelligent, stylish, and compelling all the way, The Skeleton Key is
one of the best supernatural thrillers in years!

Young nurse takes up a job at an isolated bayou estate, where she
begins to believe that someone is messing with some sinister magic.

Director Iain Softley gives this film some nice style, using the
feverish swamp setting to build an atmosphere of tension and the
unknown. However it's really Ehren Kruger's cleverly crafted story that
will draw one into the film. Kruger delivers a tale full of mystery and
unsettling sequences, all of which builds to a terrificly twisted
finale. It's a true surprise! 

Kate Hudson makes for a good female lead, but Gena Rowlands is probably
the best of the cast as her shadowy character. Peter Sarsgaard does a
nice turn as the family lawyer, while John Hurt makes the most of
playing a mute old man.

For those seeking a great supernatural thriller, look no further than
this terrific hit. It may be one of the best supernatural shockers of
2005!

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
The latest psychological thriller, 'The Skeleton Key', follows a young
hospice nurse taking care of a disturbed patient in the creepy and
swampy bayous of Louisana. Kate Hudson plays the hospice nurse,
Caroline. Caroline is a kind, brave but very curious caretaker which
gets her into trouble sometimes. When her previous patient passes away,
Caroline is sent for to live in a spooky farmhouse in the bayou, and
take care of an old senile man, Ben Devereaux (John Hurt - Owning
Mahoney) who is pretty much paralyzed from a stroke he recently had.
Caroline lives in the house with Ben and his typical old Southern
housewife, Violet Devereaux (Gena Rowlands - Hysterical Blindness).
Everything seems to be going fine until some freaky stuff starts to
happen that isn't easily explained. Violet later tells Caroline the
house is haunted with the spirits of slave voodoo enthusiasts. And so
starts the creepy tale that is the 'Skeleton Key' with great acting,
cool visuals but a lagging screenplay.

'The Skeleton Key' starts off very slow, then towards the middle picks
up pace, then it's slow again, then it concludes with a fantastic and
unpredictable ending. Part of the reason I'm giving 'The Skeleton Key'
a good review, is because the ending makes up for the constant dragging
of the film. It's not so much that the screenplay is bad, it's actually
quite intriguing, it's just that a lot of time could have been shaved
off of the final cut of 'The Skeleton Key' and it could have made as
much sense and ultimately flow a hell of a lot more smoothly. I was
expecting a scary movie out of 'The Skeleton Key', and got a movie that
was just kind of creepy. If you want to see crazy and terrifying ghost
visuals and blood 'The Skeleton Key' is definitely going to disappoint
you, but if you want a film with more psychological terror then you'll
enjoy 'The Skeleton Key'. Kate Hudson gives a solid performance as the
lead Caroline. Gena Rowlands is fantastic as the o'le southern
housewife, and John Hurt is great as the gorked out husband, who really
only has one or two lines. The film also stars Peter Sarsgaard in a
near-riveting performance as the small town's estate lawyer, who Kate
Hudson becomes attracted to. The four leads work great together, and
nobody in the film seems out of place.

If you see 'The Skeleton Key' don't be expecting this year's 'Sixth
Sense' because it's no where near that caliber. I think the less you
expect out of 'The Skeleton Key' prior to seeing it, the more you will
get out of it. Try not to fall asleep during the more tedious parts of
the film, because you need to really pay close attention to the film to
get the ending. Really, if it wasn't for the shock ending I wouldn't
recommend 'The Skeleton Key', and with the shock ending I loosely
recommend it for theaters. Grade: B- (screened at AMC Deer Valley 30,
Phoenix, Arizona, 8/15/05)

my ratings guide - A+ (absolutley flawless); A (a masterpiece,
near-perfect); A- (excellent); B+ (great); B (very good); B- (good); C+
(a mixed bag); C (average); C- (disappointing); D+ (bad); D (very bad);
D- (absolutley horrendous); F (not one redeeming quality in this hunk
of Hollywood feces).
<|_=00=_|>
After a slightly slow start, 'Skeleton Key' develops into an original,
evocative and at times genuinely scary occult thriller so Ehren Kruger
has redeemed himself after his truly wretched script for 'Ring 2' . I
am not going into spoilers, which would be extremely destructive for a
film of this kind but there are very clever character shifts, achieving
a wonderful tension lock for the last 40 minutes or so mainly because
all the performances are so good. The use of props and flash-backs is
also wonderfully rich. The setting is contemporary New Orleans and its
surrounds but this is mythical south and none the worse for that. The
mix of influences includes 'Turn of the Screw', 'Rosemary's Baby' 'Burn
Witch Burn and a few other classics but that is to give nothing away
for it absorbs them into something quite new. My only criticism would
be there is something a little confined about the movie--especially at
its start-- but its style and pace and excitement utilise this
triumphantly by the end.
