
I saw this movie at a free preview screening. I wasn't expecting much
because comic book movies are usually disappointing, but this one was
actually good. The special effects and action sequences were well done
and didn't look over-the-top.

The cinematography was beautiful and the colors almost seemed alive,
they were so vibrant. I don't see many movies where the colors make
that much of an impact.

I didn't find the dialogue corny or forced. There was only one moment
where the audience laughed "inappropriately," and that was at a
character's name. The acting was excellent, in my opinion. Jennifer
Garner and Goran Visnjic have a natural rapport and Kirsten Prout was
very impressive. I hadn't seen her in anything previously. All three of
them did a good job of giving these characters some depth and making
you care about them, which can sometimes be hard in this type of movie.
The villains were, for the most part, subtle and not in your face, as
with many movies of this genre.

Overall, I liked this movie and recommend it to anyone who likes a good
action movie with non-cardboard characters. In addition to the action,
there is drama, romance (but not too much), elements of sci-fi and a
few laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
This is absurd - aside from the fellow Australian who has reviewed this
flick, I can't help but think that everyone else who has submitted a
review so far was some way involved in the production of Elektra,
considering how generous they were with their praise.

Admittedly I'm not really a fan of comic-book-to-movie conversions so I
didn't go in with many expectations, yet still I found Elektra to be
incredibly underwhelming. The thing that irked me the most was the fact
that there was SO MUCH in this film which went by unexplained, that
left you thinking "huh, what relevance does that have to the plot?" or
"so how did that aspect of the character come about?" I can only hope
that these are things which are perhaps explained somewhat in
Daredevil, which I have no intention of seeing.

Furthermore, the behaviour of the characters in this film appear to do
an about-face at random moments to suit the storyline, and don't even
get me started about the utterly pointless romantic sub-plot. I'm also
(still) scratching my head over the fate of Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa's
character, which seems to have gone by unexplained.

If I can give kudos to this movie for anything it would have to be the
fantastic locations in which it was shot, but otherwise I gained little
enjoyment from Elektra. I know we're supposed to suspend our disbelief
for fantasy/action films, but almost everything in this film was so
improbable or confusing (even by action film standards) that it simply
frustrated me.

Well, hell, at least Jennifer Garner looks damn good.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps I'm out of date or just don't know what Electra is like in
current publications... But the Electra that I read was far more
manipulative and always seems to have a plan. She usually used others
to do her dirty work and more often than not some sort of double cross
was involved. Just when you think you have it all figured out she pull
the wool over your eyes and gets her way.

This movie was fairly weak on the dialog, the acting wasn't
particularly convincing, and the action was spotty. I was really
looking for something more along the lines of Frank Miller's book
"Electra Assassin." Which is much darker than anything in this movie.

Special effect where cool, action was interesting at times, but more
often than not the story and plot was slow or illogical. Tha Hand was
not menacing enough, and Electra was not..... bitchy enough. She's the
girl you love to hate... but in this story, I just didn't care either
way.
<|_=00=_|>
*** THIS CONTAINS MANY, MANY SPOILERS, NOT THAT IT MATTERS, SINCE
EVERYTHING IS SO PATENTLY OBVIOUS ***

Oh my God, where do I start? Well, here - this is the first time I have
ever come home from a movie and said "I have to get on IMDb and write a
review of this NOW. It is my civic duty." Such is the badness of this
flick. 

*begin digression* But let me just state one thing before I start. I'm
not some Harvard-art-major-film-noir-weenie (in fact, I went to the
college at the other end of Mass. Ave in Cambridge, the one where the
actual smart people without rich daddies and trust funds go, which
should put me squarely in the
nerd-who-would-obsessively-love-comic-book-films census group, and
still I hated this film...). My viewing preference is for the highbrow
cinematic oeuvre that includes the Die Hards, Bond flicks, Clerks, and
The Grail. I wish the Titanic had never sunk, not so much for the lives
lost, but so we wouldn't have been subjected to that dung-heap of a
film. And the single and only reason I will watch a snooty French art
film is if there is a young and frequently disrobed Emmanuelle Beart in
it. I even gave Maximum Overdrive one of its precious few 10s here on
IMDb, for God's sake. So I'm as shallow as they come, therefore I'm not
criticizing this film because I'm looking for some standard of
cinematic excellence - it's because Elektra stinks like a
three-week-old dead goat. *end digression*

OK, there's so much badness here that I have to try to categorize it.
Here goes:

MS. GARNER: One of the compelling reasons a male would want to see this
flick is to see lots of hot JGar (I have no idea why my wife wanted
to). I think that between this and "Finding Nemo", the latter was the
sexier film. You know the red outfit she's advertised wearing in every
freaking ad you see? You see her in it TWICE - once at the beginning,
once at the end. Bummer. In the rest, she basically looks like what
Morrissey would look like if he were a female - lots of pouting and
black clothes. Which brings me to the incredible range of expression
JGar shows in her acting - ranging from "pouting" all the way to
"pouting and crying". Oh my God, you'd think she was being forced to
date Ben Affleck or something horrible like that. Um, wait...

THE BAD GUYS/GAL: They show about the same range of expression and
acting ability that you'd expect from a slightly overripe grapefruit.
At least next to JGar's performance, it doesn't stand out too badly.
One guy's role is to stand there and be huge, another's is to stand
there and have stuff come out of him, and the woman's role is to stand
there and breathe on and/or kiss people. They manage to pull these
incredible feats off. The main bad guy has the most difficult role of
all - he has to SIMULTANEOUSLY a) appear angry and b) appear Asian. He
does a fine job at this. I think there was a fifth bad guy/gal, but my
brain is starting to block parts of this movie out in self-defense.

PLOT TWISTS! This movie has about as many surprises as a speech at the
Democratic National Convention. Let's just put it this way - my wife,
who has only been in the U.S. for half a year and speaks only a small
amount of English - whispered this to me when the girl first appears in
JG's pad, and I swear to God I am not making this up: "She go to house
to kill girl. And father too." And this is BEFORE THE FATHER HAS EVEN
APPEARED ON THE SCREEN. Now my wife isn't stupid, but she isn't being
courted by Mensa for her gifts, either, and she's had zero exposure to
Daredevil or the comic book genre. And she figured this out in .00015
seconds with no prodding and no prior information. Such is the blatant
obviousness of this film. 

RARELY-BEFORE-SEEN STUPIDITY! OK, so there's this big dude in the film.
He can take a chestful of shotgun blast and brush off the shot like
it's lint, and he can take a vicious Electra stab to the chest and just
bend the metal (or melt it - or something - more defenses kicking in,
thank God). But JG jumps on his head, and he explodes? An Achilles
noggin? OK! Such is the mind-numbing stupidity of this film.

Ack. I'm starting to feel a cerebral hemorrhage coming on, so I have to
stop. But you have been warned. If you have to intentionally slash your
own tires to prevent yourself from going to see this movie, DO IT. And
if Armageddon is going to come, please let it be >before< this comes
out on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a comic fan, so I know nothing about this character. However, I
found the movie to be action-packed and very entertaining.

My companions for this feature were a 12 year old girl and a 12 year
old boy, as well as another mom. We all enjoyed the movie, and Garner's
muscles and stunt work were impressive. This is a must-see for martial
arts fans, in my opinion.

The visuals were stunning, as were the special effects. This movie is
not deep drama, but was very well-made for its genre. Since I don't
care for comic books or the movies about them, I expected this film to
be a stinker. I was pleasantly surprised when it held my interest.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, it's not the worst superhero movie I've ever seen. 'Elektra'
first, last, and most importantly, has Jennifer Garner. Not only is she
an angular beauty, the star of TV's "Alias" is a terrific athlete
(although I guess her stunt woman is even better) and she's not lacking
for charisma either. And, luckily, a good friend with the power of God
brought her back to life after that jerk Colin Farrell killed her in
'Daredevil'. Comic book fans might have been begging for a spin-off of
her 'Daredevil' character, but was anyone else? I saw the movie because
of who was playing Elektra and that's it. She may not be the next
Hepburn (either one), but she sure is pretty.

It's too bad this flick is so bland and marginal because there are 2 or
3 cool villains, all members of The Hand (apparently, this is the Mob
in Marvel comic land). The head of the black hats (Will Yun Lee) is
nothing special, but his henchman include scary folks named Tattoo,
Stone, and Typhoid. They seem to be an unstoppable combination, until
they meet a lone (and lonely) woman who can stop them. Elektra doesn't
have quite the same magical powers as her rivals, although she's able
to disappear and reappear like Tony Hopkins in 'Dracula'. Come to think
of it, the ground rules for her actual abilities are never made clear
by director Rob Bowman. Oh well, she's good enough to be able beat up
everybody.

So the Lady in Red is paid to assassinate a man (Goran Visnjic, who
actually smiles for the first time in his career) and his teenage
daughter, Abby (Kirsten Prout). Abby is quite a fightin' prodigy
herself. The hired killer can't go through with it, then actually helps
her new friends flee from The Hand. Terence Stamp works some Miyagi
magic for Elektra as a blind mentor with mad skills. Stamp has panache,
but nobody can class up this drab script. The whole plot is nothing we
haven't seen before. Ah, but it would be wrong not to mention Garner's
red outfit. I don't want to own the 'Elektra' DVD, but I might buy a
gigantic poster of Garner in that sexy battle gear.
<|_=00=_|>
Having recovered from the fatal injuries inflicted upon her due to her
involvement in the film DareDevil, Elektra has become an assassin for
hire, embittered by her life and living only for her next job. When
Kirigi and the Order of the Hand present her with her next job she
takes it and heads out to kill Mark Miller, a man who must die to
account for an act committed by his grandfather years before his birth.
However when she actually meets Mark and his young daughter, Elektra
has a change of heart and joins the Millers to defend them from the
Order?

Having seen my fair share of films I rarely find one that is totally
without value, so often I'll give things a try even if I fear the
worst. More often than not bad films have some good but generally fudge
the mix and has some average parts that drag it down. However having
seen Elektra I can honestly say that if you're looking for a template
to make a bad film then this is as good a place to come as any. First
of all the plot could be written on a postage stamp and it is as bad as
people say. It lacked anything to make e interested and I honestly
didn't care about the detail, but it would have been nice to have had a
bit of development of the story. Speaking of development, don't expect
any in your characters either  Elektra's past is a collection of
flashbacks and "sudden waking-up" moments but nothing more than that;
she is just a bit of eye-candy who will "find her heart again" at some
point and the sad thing is that she is the best developed character in
the film.

With such a thin frame to work within, Garner does nothing that look
determined or, as she "finds her heart again", simpers and weeps for
the camera. She cannot walk properly because someone has decided that
"strutting" makes a woman look sexier (I blame Destiny's Child) and she
has no presence at all (this from someone who continues to watch Alias
even as it gets sillier and sillier). However beside Prout, Garner
looks like the next big thing because Prout is so toe-curlingly awful
as the cute-kid that it is a wonder that she got cast at all. Visnjic
has nothing to do and it is shame that he got involved. Terence Stamp
does nothing more than take the cash and support from Tagawa, Lee and
others is average at best. A clue to a bad film is when it uses lesbian
teasing to get the teenage boys in  it happened in 2004's Taxi and it
happens here too. The direction is just as bad as the acting; the
action scenes are terrible and, outside of these the film has no idea
what to do and thus just rushes to the next poor action scene, loaded
with poor special effects throughout.

Overall this is a pretty terrible film that has nothing of value within
it. The characters are poorly developed at best and none of the cast
can do anything with them at all  Garner is all at sea in a collection
of pouts, poses and strutting walks. The story is hollow and is the
minimum needed to bring the film to the screen (and it shows). The
director makes the action scenes unexciting and just a collection of
poor CGI, meanwhile using music in a hamfisted attempt to make the
audience have any emotional attachment with the product. Even die-hard
Garner fans will struggle to enjoy this dog  January and already I
think I've seen one of my least favourite films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of Marvel Universe I found that I liked this movie. I suggest
people not familiar with Elektra, The hand, or other aspects of the
Marvel plot lines stay away from this movie. Having the knowledge from
the comics I was able to fill in the plot holes and just enjoy the
movie. I liked the visual aspects of the movie which includes the
special effects, settings, and Jennifer Garner. I thought that some of
the bad guys were unnecessary. They should have just stuck with one or
two bad guys and spent more time defining them. What was the point of
the big bullet proof guy? All in all I didn't feel ripped off after
seeing the movie. I got my $6.50 worth.
<|_=00=_|>
Elektra is probably one of the most underrated films this year.
Jennifer Garner is sexy, exciting and great as Elektra and Terrance
Stamp is great as Stick. While the film seemed rushed, it was
entertaining and fun to watch. Several scenes even had me wondering
"what's going to happen?" And aren't we supposed to get into films? The
action and fight scenes are just spectacular, and Jennifer shows her
amazing fighting techniques throughout. The film does suffer from being
too short, though. It should've gone longer into back-story But
overall, I have to give it up to Rob Bowman for making a film that is
fun, exciting and just plain entertaining. I totally recommend this
action-packed thrill ride of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the look of Elektra; the dark, grisly feel is such homage to
the comic. I also loved how some of the scenes reminded me so much of
favorite panels from the comics. I loved how the film depicted Elektra
and how she was in conflict with herself. I thought there was a lot of
depth in Garner's portrayal. She even surprised me. There are
exceptional martial arts sequences in "Elektra", including spectacular
kali and escrima stick moves. Key scenes include the first conflict at
the cabin and the final showdown with the main villain. Overall nice
movie, I just wish they had went with the "R" rating and traded in some
of that dopey green fog for blood.
