

In a drama strikingly reminiscent in style and tone of P.T. Anderson's
film Magnolia (1999), the narrative in Crash shifts between 5 or 6
different groups of seemingly unconnected characters, whose
relationships to each other are only revealed in the end.

Not to be confused with the David Cronenberg feature of the same name,
this Crash is the feature-length, studio-released directorial debut of
veteran Canadian TV writer/producer/director and two-time Emmy-winner
Paul Haggis. An in-depth exploration on the themes of racism and
prejudice, cause and effect, chance and coincidence, and tragedy,
"crash" is a metaphor for the collisions between strangers in the
course of day-to-day existence. Set over a 24-hour period in
contemporary L.A., it is a social commentary on the interconnectedness
of life in the big city.

Crash features a top-notch ensemble cast which includes: Sandra
Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Jennifer Esposito, Brendan Fraser,
Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, Loretta Devine, Thandie Newton, Ryan Phillipe
and Larenz Tate. All put in superb performances in a tight script which
is at once gritty, heartwarming, shocking, tragic and witty, and which
will ring true with viewers of all demographics.

Centering around two disturbing car accidents, a carjacking, vicious
workplace vandalism, and the suspicious shooting death of one police
officer by another, the drama is set against the backdrop of a racist
LAPD and Los Angeles justice system. Action shifts between the various
characters, whose lives collide with each other in unpredictable ways
as each faces their own moral dilemma, and tries to cope with the
consequences of their resulting decision made or action taken. Each of
the dozen or so main characters undergoes some type of a personal
metamorphosis as the various story lines head toward a striking, common
conclusion, which succeeds at being both cathartic and unsettling.

Crash is backed by a solid and varied, original soundtrack and
excellent cinematography. Sweeping, wider shots alternate with
disjointed camera angles which convey the chaos and confusion of the
characters and the unpredictability of life. Occasional lingering
close-ups -- on occasion without sound -- capture the actors' facial
expressions, which suitably detail key moments of the characters'
aching pain, fear, anger, bitter anguish, remorse or grief, far better
than any dialogue could.

This breathtaking film is destined to be a critical smash and
box-office hit. Five stars.

<|_=00=_|>
"Crash" is a complex movie with a simple premise: set in Los Angeles it
follows 8 main characters (and many, many more supporting) from all
walks of life and races whose lives intersect at some point during one
24 hour period. These people are all different yet all alienated, to
the point of breaking, so much so that when they come together, things
explode.

The complexity of the film comes from the encounters between characters
and their tangled lives and worlds. Haggis' screenplay is so intricate
and delicately written I couldn't begin to try to summarize the actual
plot line (which destines this article to be kind of vague), but
everyone meets everyone else at some point in the film (and there are a
whole lot of characters). Sufficed to say these meetings are variably
intense, casual, fleeting, dangerous, but they all effect the
participants in profound and provocative ways, causing lives to find
enlightenment or swerve violently, and watching it all unfold is
mesmerizing because Paul Haggis (Oscar Nominated writer of Million
Dollar Baby) made the film meaty with messy characters and topics and
stories to chew and hurtle along with.

The all-encompassing theme of the film is racism, and it is dealt with
bluntly, honestly, and without reservation. Every single character
participates in the perpetuation of the ugly cycle but also suffers
because of it. Where racism makes for an interesting enough subject for
an already provoking and fairly experimental film (I was surprised to
see this get wide release), it's only the catalyst for a deeper,
resounding story of redemption and the universality of our lonely
situation which the movie becomes during its second hour (what you
could call Act II). It switches from a somewhat depressing
contemplative amalgamation of moments about racism in everyday life and
how destructive it is, to a throbbing, intense web of choices and
consequences -- life and death, vivifying or soul killing -- and the
chance at redemption.

Following their actions in Act I, everyone meets a fork in the road or
is given a second chance of some sort. Some take it, some don't, but
regardless, by the end of the movie everyone has changed. This is what
gives the movie wings during its second hour, makes it interesting,
keeps you guessing and on knife's-edge. It also gives the characters
depth and souls and shows that despite perceived and upheld
differences, when it comes down to it we aren't different (which we see
in a shattering scene between Ryan Philippe and Larenz Tate after Tate
notices that he and Philippe have the same St. Christopher statue), in
fact we desperately need each other. It's one of the few films I've
seen where everyone is at fault somehow and yet there are no villains.
It makes it hopeful, particularly with something as ugly as racism:
everyone's fallible, but everyone has the capacity for good and
nobility. That said, each of these character's inner struggles makes
for all the conflict and resolution you need.

A talented ensemble drives the film, sharing almost equal amounts of
screen time, but the folks who really stood out and had my full
attention each time were Terrence Howard (plays a TV director), Matt
Dillon (as a patrol cop), Sandra Bullock (a rich housewife), , Don
Cheadle (a detective), and Michael Pe√±a (a locksmith). These five gave
deeply, deeply felt performances portraying a wide range of emotions
and personal situations, giving souls -- alone, yearning, and searching
in a world that doesn't seem to care -- to shells of imperfect people.
But the actors triumph in little moments of human contact: a glance, an
embrace, a pause, a smile, a wince, things that breath the film to life
and with simple visuals give it profundity. This is beautifully
illustrated in a small scene between the downward spiraling Jean
(Sandra Bullock) and her maid after she's begun to realize all her
problems may not be about the two black guys who car jacked her, but
her own life.

Some closing notes: it's obvious it's a debut. At times the dialogue
and acting can be stilted and unnatural; some of the initial "racial"
situations seem forced; certain scenes could have used some editing or
fine tuning, but by the end I didn't care. It also may be helpful to
know that the first hour spends its time setting everything up for Act
II, although it will seem more like a photo essay on racism than a
setup. But by the time Act I ends you're ready for something
substantial to happen, and at the perfect moment, stuff happens. I was
entirely satisfied with this movie, I couldn't have asked for anything
more. Still it's impressive, with his debut Haggis made a film that
magically maintains a storytelling balancing act about people's lives
that almost seamlessly flows, takes an honest look at racism with an
understanding of mankind, a belief in redemption, and even hope. As I
walked out of the theater into the rainy night it resonated with me and
colored my thoughts as I made my way through the crowds of unknown
fellow people filling the cinema. That's about all I can ask for in a
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Like Altman's classic Short Cuts, and Anderson's Magnolia, Crash, by
writer/director Paul Haggis weaves a tale of multiple characters
through the web of streets we have come to know as Los Angeles. Unlike
those other two films this one has a very specific theme to explore.
From the opening line uttered by Don Cheadle we know this is to be a
film about how people relate, and from the interchange that follows
between Jennifer Esposito and Alexis Rhee (pretty sure she plays the
Korean female driver who rear-ended her) how people relate tends to be
ruled by first impressions or prejudice.

Race is paramount in this film, and all our preconceptions of who
people are get twisted and turned through the intricate plot. With each
new additional character we find another assumption, another
stereotype, and then watch as that preconception is obliterated as the
character develops. It is a credit to the deftly written script, tight
direction and exceptional acting talent that every one of these many
characters is fully realized on screen without ever feeling
one-dimensional.

I would love to discuss some of the details of what happens to explain
how well it is done, but part of the magic of this film is allowing
yourself to be taken on this ride. Mind you, this isn't a ride of
pleasure. The first half of this film is unrelentingly in its
ferociousness. I could literally feel my rage at some of the characters
forming to a fever pitch. The fear and hatred I was confronting wasn't
just on the screen, but in the pit of my stomach. And in one absolutely
brilliant moment I was literally sobbing at the expectation of horror
unfolding, only to be cathartically released in a most unexpected way.

Mr. Haggis was in attendance at the screening I saw and explained that
the idea for this film came to him one night sometime after 9/11 at
about 2a.m. when his own memories of a car- jacking experience from 10
years before wouldn't leave him alone. Clearly this film was his way of
relieving those demons of memory, using the catharsis of his art to
unleash them and in doing so has given to all viewers of cinema an
opportunity to examine our own preconceptions about race relations and
how we treat each other and think of ourselves. He mentioned in the
discussion after-wards that he likes to make films that force people to
confront difficult issues. Films that ask people to think after the
film has ended and not just leave saying: "that was a nice film".

This isn't a "nice" film, and I would expect that it will provoke many
a discussion in the ensuing weeks when it opens nation-wide. It's a
discussion long overdue for this country, and it took a Canadian to
bring the issue to the fore in this brilliant, thought provoking film.
<|_=00=_|>
There is good and bad in all of us. This movie explores this like no
other. It will make you think about the nature of bigotry and
stereotypes. The characters switch from heavy to hero in a way that is
deeply moving and exhilarating. It is TV drama style writing where
several different groups of characters and plots interweave (Paul
Haggis) but with none of the limits of TV, it reminded me of "Hill
Street Blues" which from me is a big compliment. I am a Don Cheadle fan
and he captures the role. Sandra Bullock plays against character and
pulls it off with ease. The most impressive performance to me was Ryan
Phillippe's. Almost every nationality in LA was represented and they
all were interesting and realistic. The ensemble cast and various plots
blend together and keep your interest. Cast is great, music is
haunting, writing is superb. Go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I get the impression that I was watching a different movie to the
majority of other people I know who have seen this film. It's not
really that I found the film offensive or anything - just that the
script was unbelievably amateurish for a film that had obviously had a
bit of money thrown at it. I really respected Paul Haggis' work on the
Million Dollar Baby script and was bitterly disappointed to see how bad
this script was. It was clear to me that it was desperate to be the
'racism' version of Traffic, but I don't think Traffic was really a
film worth ripping off in the first place. 

The worst feature of thisfilm is the way it shamelessly spoon-feeds its
audience. Does Haggisreally think we are so dumb as to require a shot
of the blanks? Do wereally need to see the phone book sitting on
Farhad's dashboard, withthe address circled in black texta? Can we not
be left to make someleaps in logic for ourselves? 

I also had a major problem with the dialogue which was so 'on the
nose'. I have heard one critic say that the quality of dialogue is
deceptively high, because even though people may not speak this way,
they certainly do think this way. That is irrelevant. It is the job of
a script like this to utilise dialogue in a way that helps add to the
characterisations and believability of the (in this case highly
implausible) situations that are set up. These characters all speak
using the same voice and all they ever talk about is racism. 

Surely the purpose of a film like this should be to promote the fact
that race should not really be an issue in these situations, but by
making it the sole focus of every scene, doesn't it become innately
racist itself? Characters walk around spouting their philosophies and
conveniently memorised statistics on race relations as though they're
regurgitating extracts from the research essay they've just written.
It's utterly unconvincing and obvious. 

A film should reveal its meaning gradually, not slap us in the face
with it in the opening scenes and then never let up. I can see that
Haggis' intentions with this film were honorable, but dare I suggest
that by directing his own script he has not been able to identify and,
therefore, overcome its flaws. I really hope that writer/directors will
be really careful in future when approaching this 'mosaic' style of
narrative. It has been done well a number of times, but getting the
balance between the personal and the political right is very difficult.
And Robert Altman will not be outdone in that department.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this "movie" partly because of the sheer number of good reviews
at Netflix, and from it I leaned a valuable lesson. Not a lesson about
ethnic diversity however...the lesson I learned is "Don't trust
reviews".

Yes, racism sucks and people are complicated, but the people who
actually need to see this movie are going to be the ones who are the
least drawn to it and least affected by it if they DO see it. The only
reason that I can think of for the number of good reviews is that it's
being reviewed by people who aren't used to thinking, or who've seen
their first thought-provoking movie and somehow think that Haggis
invented the concept. In fact, he basically made this film, which
should be called "Racism For Dummies", as emotionally wrenching as
possible, seemingly to give people who don't spend a lot of time
thinking the impression that they've discovered some fundamental truth
that's never been covered in a film before. Zen and the Art of
Motorcycle Maintanence it's not... An after-school special for the
unthinking masses, cut into bite-sized overwrought ham-fisted pieces to
make it easier to swallow without too much introspection.

It's as if they portrayed everyone as being the worst possible extreme,
simply to make us happy that we're such good people because we don't
identify with the characters. Let's face it people. NOBODY identifies
with these characters because they're all cardboard cutouts and
stereotypes (or predictably reverse-stereotypes). It's well acted (even
if the dialog is atrocious) and cleverly executed, so much that you
don't think to ask "where's the beef?" until you can tell the film is
winding down. The flaming car scene was well executed, like much of the
movie, but went nowhere in the end. 

The messages are very heavy-handed, and from the "behind the scenes"
blurb, the producers were clearly watching a different movie, because
there is very little to laugh about in this movie, even during the
intended funny parts. I have to stress that this is NOT entertainment,
more like a high school diversity lesson...call it the "Blood on the
Highway" of racism. They could even show this in high schools if it
weren't for the "side-nude" shot of Jennifer Esposito.

In this film, everyone's a jerk and everyone learns a lesson (except
for Michael Pena who gets the best role, but the most predictable
storyline).

This is a bad film, with bad writing, and good actors....an ugly
cartoon crafted by Paul Haggis for people who can't handle anything but
the bold strokes in storytelling....a picture painted with crayons.

Crash is a depressing little nothing, that provokes emotion, but
teaches you nothing if you already know racism and prejudice are bad
things.
<|_=00=_|>
Take the pop-cultured infused socio-political discourse of a Spike Lee
movie, the glossy grit of a Michael Mann LA crime story, and the
compelling mosaic story-telling technique of a Paul Thomas Anderson
film, and you'll get the "feel" for Paul Haggis' stunning directorial
debut. To boil a film like "Crash" down to such terms, however, would
do it severe injustice. Powerful and thought provoking, this is the
most accomplished and compelling film since "21 Grams" premiered back
at the end of 2003.

"Crash" brilliantly shows through intertwining vignettes, that are
often blazingly funny in their brutal honesty and fascinatingly
gut-wrenching in their melodrama, how subtle racism (often guised in
nervous humor) and overt prejudice (often exasperated by sudden
irrational violence and an overabundance of readily available firearms)
completely permeate our culture and everyday interactions within
society. A hyper intelligent script showcases not characters, but
brilliant representations of real people, people we know and pass in
the street every day, people not unlike us. People who at first seem to
be lost causes in the war against racism (witnessed in Matt Dillon's
harried beat cop and Sandra Bulluck's spoiled District Attorney's wife)
can often become the most unlikely solutions to the problem, while
people who ride in on their high horse (witnessed in Ryan Phillipe's
noble young police officer) can turn against the tide in the blink of
an eye. No one is immune to it no matter how hard they try to rise
above it (witnessed in Don Cheadle's quietly tragic detective).

In the end, everyone is flawed, the racism is inescapable, and the
audience feels a twinge of sympathy for just about everyone. Perhaps
that is what Haggis is hinting at to be our answer. Showing empathy and
being able to relate even on the most remote level to every human being
out there is the first step to that true brotherhood of man. Because
the film offers no real solution, the discussion and discourse it
creates in the minds of the viewers is the first step in solving
society's ills. We can't tackle everything at once, but we can open a
dialogue, and hopefully, one person conversing with another will be the
first step to our salvation. It takes a bold film to raise such
questions, and an even greater one to compel an audience to talk about
the potential answers, and that is exactly what "Crash" accomplishes.
<|_=00=_|>
The film's tagline is "You think you know who you are. You have no
idea." I reject both the suggested idea that I have no idea who I am
and the inferred suggestion that this film tells me who people truly
are. If people in real life are really like this, then man, we're
screwed.

A bilious film that I walked into late and left prematurely. A film
which is so wrapped up in its goal of becoming The Race Film of All
Time that it loses sight of the very tools a film must use.

The rules of Hollywood are such: if you show something in the first
half, it must be used in the second half. Thus the gun that the
daughter worries about her father buying will somehow find its way into
the story in the second half. The rules of Hollywood are to make dialog
'real' - a concept which changes with every decade. Is this 'real
dialog' somehow less ludicrous than the 'real dialog' of Kevin Smith
ten years ago? The rules of Hollywood state that we set the scene, and
as action rises, the camera moves in closer to the faces - in this film
primarily so we can see the supposed shame, humiliation and
transcendental realism of the characters. The strings increase, the
frame-rate slows down, and our heart is meant to break.

This film is as crassly manipulative as it is vapid. I have my own
prejudices against L.A., which I freely admit, so to combat this
prejudice I will not say that this is a natural situation stemming from
the location, but rather probably from the author and director. The
writer, Paul Haggis, already showed a taste for polemics over humanity
in his Million Dollar Baby, which at least had a director who
understood how to make the vision of the film bring out the best of a
script's ideas. Now that Paul Haggis has his own hands on the camera it
becomes obvious that not only does he not know how to write true,
natural human drama, he does not know how to photograph or direct it as
well. Paul Haggis comes from the land of TV, let us not forget: the
land of diminished expectations.

Everything is as obvious as a TV-movie, simply presented for simple
minds - Haggis drills into us, over and over again, that while on the
surface people may seem to be awful, they have secret pains hidden.
This is a nice idea, but so hamfistedly presented that the whole
juxtaposition of bad/good has an amateurish feel. Structurally the film
is broken up, in the tradition of Magnolia and other earlier films. The
editing is as typical and conventionally "cinematic" as could be - if
there is a dramatic movement, such as a door opening or a car driving
past between the subject and camera, the editors use that extreme
movement to give the cut that occurs there a more kinetic quality. The
problem is that other than the drive to keep things moving, there is
very little intelligence and thought behind the cuts - everything is
kept by the books. Not only are the puppets of this hideous racial
punch and judy show ineptly handled, but even the curtains are lowered
and raised with incompetence.

The film tries desperately to present reality, but there's just no
talent whatsoever. Some of the actors are good, some of the actors are
bad, and all of the performance get muddied together, brought down by
the low, low aesthetics of the film. We have cinematography which is
technically clear: we can see the scene, we have a clear understanding
of what is happening. However, not only is the cinematography
unremarkable, but it is thoughtless camera-work and framing which
believes that it actually is inspired. The result is little stylistic
flourishes which one recognizes but do not actually add anything to the
drama or pathos. For example - and this is a spoiler - as a father
holds his dying child (the father might be shot too, I didn't stick
around to find out) the camera sees his face and gives us the famous
Vertigo track/zoom. The Vertigo shot!!! It was at this point that the
film became hysterical and I just had to leave. I had to leave because
it was so bad. I left because I was in the middle of a crowded theater,
and I wanted to express to the audience that I was sick of emptyheaded
Hollywood 'art' which is full of sound and fury, yet signifying nothing
(in the Bard's own words). I hate to waste such good Shakespearian
references on something this remarkably bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I agree with what so many others have said about the shallow and
offensive nature of this film's examination of racism. It is baffling
to me that so many people seem to have been fooled by its
pretentiousness. I want to comment on the Matt Dillon character as an
example of what's most infuriating about this movie. Here we have a man
who -- contrasted with the film's underlying message that "we're all a
LITTLE racist" -- effectively rapes a woman in public, cruelly
humiliating her husband and deliberately goading him to make a move
that, as he well knows, will lead to his arrest or even death. He does
all this after pulling the couple over without any legal cause but
because, as we come to understand, they are black and wealthy and he is
a hurt little boy who is now the police and can therefore do as he
pleases. This behavior is not a LITTLE racist. This behavior is evil.
It is disturbing to me that this extreme of racism is held up next to
another character's behavior -- spouting her paranoid stereotypes about
gang violence -- to illustrate that everybody's a LITTLE racist. Later,
we're spoon-fed some tripe about Dillon's poor old dad and how black
folks drove him into the poor house. Is this supposed to explain, or
worse, excuse this behavior? And is Dillon's character meant to redeem
himself by committing the utterly unmotivated and unbelievable,
laughably coincidental act of saving the woman he sexually assaulted
the very night before? Please. The fact that so many people seem to
feel some kind of self-congratulatory admiration for this film makes me
feel sad about the shallowness of our understanding of racism, and our
apparent lack of commitment to condemning and ending it.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing this movie, I was able to really understand what "Six
Degrees of Separation" means. There is a thread that weaves its way
through the landscape of life connecting, influencing, and defining
all. This movie is certainly thought-provoking, one cannot watch it
without feeling either privileged to have become part of the fabric, or
like a fly on the wall - seeing, yet unable to influence or guide.
There is almost a sense of frustration at ones inability to be no more
than an observer in this movie since it compels you to want to shout in
warning, gasp in shock, cry in sorrow, and hold in comfort. "Crash" is
definitely not a movie to use as a venue to escape life for a couple of
hours, but it is a movie that certainly makes you take a second and
third look at who you are within yourself. The actors are surprising
not only for their depth of performance, but also because they do not
play characters you think you know. I would highly recommend this movie
to anyone who likes drama, action, comedic relief, or just an
appreciation for a well-thought out movie.
