
Wow, what a rare treat. A children's animated movie the is completely
and totally suitable for children of all ages. I am not easily offended
by movies for adults, but as a parent I am simply amazed at how much
children's entertainment is really NOT fit children. Cat in the Hat,
also from Ron Howard and Imagine, was rude and crass. I am embarrassed
when my six year old repeats lines from the movie like the whole dirty
hoe thing and all that. This movie is a very gentle and kind movie. No
double meanings, no sexually explicate or pop culture references to
keep adults interested. A favorite children's book, that with any luck,
will be a favorite children's movie. I have a feeling that this film
may not be a box office success, yet I still think that it will have a
very long life for many years to come on DVD and cable because it is
such a great entertaining movie for kids. The Jack Johnson music is
perfect. The animated style is wonderful. It is not the all-new and
important CGI animation, but a traditionally animated film that uses
the old styles that have all but been abandoned in feature films This
is the best Disney animated movie that I have seen in the past decade.
Well, of course this film isn't made by Disney, but this is the type of
film that they should be making, even if only occasionally, as a
reminder of what a CHILDREN'S animated movie is supposed to be like. In
a way, the film is even sweeter than the stories from which it is
based. I really can't find anything wrong with this film for children
and as a parent, I was much happier to watch it than Garfield or Shark
Tales (both of which I sleep through).
<|_=00=_|>
Here I am, taking my 2 year old to a movie expecting to be bored stiff.
Much to my surprise, my 8 year old also enjoyed it, and my 2 year old
sat enraptured and watched the entire movie without a peep. And then
talked non-stop about it for the next couple days. That is enough for a
positive rating, but I also found myself enjoying this cute movie.
Usually for that to happen the movie makers have to put in scenes just
for the parents that the kids don't get at all, not here, I found
myself chuckling at the same things my daughter did. Just simple
innocent monkey business and a bumbling Will Ferrel, it needs no more.
I even thought the additions by Jack Lullaby Johnson added to the
movie, not just to put the parents asleep. We will definitely end up
with this movie on our shelves for the kids, and even the parents can
watch it one or 2 more times without going out of our minds with the
typical substitute stupid for cute fare that usually passes for
children movies.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I took our 9-year-old to see a sneak preview of "CG" over
the weekend. Going into it, I had reservations--I loved the books and
illustrations when I was younger, but I thought my son wouldn't like it
& that I would just zone out for 90 minutes. I WAS WRONG! The animation
is very well done, probably more computerized than hand-drawn, George
thankfully does NOT talk, and the characters are given enough depth &
background to sustain a plot for a children's film. The film takes some
of the most memorable scenes from the original books & melds them in
with the story about a search for a lost idol. The film's humor is
aimed squarely at kids & kids at heart. Unlike "Shrek," there are no
jokes that pass over kid's heads to make the adults laugh--kids &
adults alike were howling with laughter at the screening we saw, & my
wife even teared up a little at one emotional point. The film has a
bouncy background soundtrack made up of songs that sound like something
Paul Simon would write. Thoroughly enjoyable, worth seeing, & nothing
in it to offend anyone of any age.
<|_=00=_|>
My eight-year-old son said to me on the way out "Mom, that was the best
movie I've ever seen".

Myself? I had my jaw dropped, tears in my eyes, and my spirits were
soaring.

Finally - a movie you can take your kids to see with no "adult humor"
that may or may not fly over your kids' heads. No farting or potty
humor. A TRUE children's movie that does beautiful justice to the
beloved books.

Outstanding traditional animation. Loved all the primary colors! Great
soundtrack - just went out and bought it today. I am taking my kids to
see this one in the theater again (a first for me), and we can't wait
for it to come out on DVD.

Thanks Ron Howard - you have a winner here.
<|_=00=_|>
Attended the world premiere yesterday for Curious George. The movie is
true to the spirit of the original work of the Reys'. For a full-length
animated feature that was under a tremendous production schedule (not
counting the 14+ years of development), Imagine Entertainment really
pulled it together quite well. The traditional 2-D animation, a
collaboration of from animators in over 10 countries, is very good and
a nice throwback and change from all the CGI animation more prevalent
today. What really makes this film are the songs by Jack Johnson--the
two fit together perfectly. Overall, this is a cute movie and a perfect
way to spend an afternoon or evening with your young children. For
those adults who grew up with Curious George, they too will not be
disappointed in the film's light-hearted, warm approach to the original
character.
<|_=00=_|>
Anymore animated movies are trying to appeal to adult audiences with
crude humor, and double meanings. If I wanted to see an adult movie, I
would get a babysitter. This is a movie FOR CHILDREN. I took my 2 and 3
year old girls to see it. It is a visually stunning rendering of the
classic children's books. George is wholesome, endearing, and charming.
The whimsical animation style breathes life to the character we
remember fondly from our youth. He exudes youthful exuberance and
energy and mischief.

It is a true G rated movie. I would say it reminds me of Classic Disney
but even Cinderella had its wicked stepmother and Sleeping Beauty
definitely had its scary moments. There is nothing here to frighten
even the smallest children. Only delight them!
<|_=00=_|>
This was just such an excellent movie. I saw it twice and believe it or
not, I'm 17 years old. I work at the movie theater so it's free and all
and I watched it one day work. The next day (Valentine's Day) I brought
my little 8-year-old sister to see it with me. She loved it. There
wasn't any high-complex comedy, just simple child's play, but done so
well. Will Ferrell was great as the The Man In The Yellow Hat, his
voice had a very friendly feel to it. I think the true magic is the way
the artists made George look. Curiosity got the best of me when I asked
"How did they get him to look like the coolest monkey in the world?"
Every shot he's in you just can't help but look at him and how
goofy/funny/cute/touching he looks. I will admit, a few scenes had me
in stomach-aching-laughter. Especially the King Kong take-off scene
where George is walking through the city and when he paints the
apartment. A cheerful story for every young child and any teenager or
adult with an open mind. Pure family fun.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I have to say that I am a huge Curious George fan and have
been since I was a little girl. I have to admit that when I saw that
they were making my beloved little monkey into a feature film, I was
incredibly nervous that his legacy would be ruined. But the movie
opened today and my boyfriend and I went to the first matinée at the
theater and I LOVED it! I thought it was adorable and true to the style
and story of the original book. I loved everything about it. The
animation was great, it was nice to see something NOT computer animated
for a change. Jack Johnson's music was a perfect fit and watching
basically morphed me back 18 years into a 5 year old kid again. It
brought me back to watching the old animated stories I watched with my
little brother. I think this will be a great thing for getting kids to
go and read the books as well. I was in a Borders later in the
afternoon and saw two kids buying books and overheard a phone call
asking about what books were carried there.

So whether you're 23 and fell in love with George as a kid or you have
kids of your own, this is a must see. You'll forget your troubles for
the length of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
From the very first moment that Curious George scampers onto the screen
to begin his funny adventures, my heart was swept away with laughter.
All my cares disappeared while my wife and I giggled with all the other
kids, very young and very old, watching George do his best to do the
right thing  only to get in more and more trouble from the adult
animals all around. Soon George (a 'monkey'  actually a chimpanzee)
finds better times with the animal children, whom he gathers around a
chameleon that they light up like a rainbow disco strobe.

Sounds silly? It sure is, and more fun than an elephant with a smiley
face painted by George on its butt! (Everyone screamed with laughter at
that one.) Within less time than it takes George to settle down for the
night, all alone, we're not watching a movie  we're living the
adventure with him. For those who have read the Curious George books,
you know (or soon remember) how the story goes. For those adults or
kids who haven't read the books yet, let the story sweep you away.

For those interested in such curious things: this movie is animated,
hand-drawn in vibrant primary colors with fun background music by Jack
Johnson. It's faithful to the spirit and drawings of Margret and H.A.
Rey who created the Curious George books. If you have any youth in your
heart, you will be delightfully swept away by the good ship H.A. Rey
into the antic-filled, lovely and gentle world of Curious George and
his new family.

I had a gentle, fun good time seeing this movie with my wife (a
grandma). So did the preview theater, full not only with kids of all
ages with their parents & grandparents, but a couple in their 20's on a
date! This is a really gentle, really good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my two-year-old son to see this movie, his first in a theater,
and we both had a great time. Curious George is a light-hearted, sweet
movie that portrays our little monkey's mayhem without resorting to
manic pacing, blaring music or wise-cracking.

In fact, the makers deliberately put very little into the movie that is
aimed over the children's head and at the parents. So, unlike a Shrek
or a Toy Story movie, there was never an instance of a joke that mommy
and daddy laugh at and the kids miss. All the jokes are shared.

So, see this movie with a small one. It probably isn't 'slick' enough
for anyone over 8. People without small children can take a pass. The
most hard core Curious George fans can rent the DVD.
