
I'm another of those who saw this at Sundance, and all the things I
enjoy about Gaiman and McKean's graphic novels were on display: the
quiet humor, the intelligence, the delightful weirdness, the astounding
visual vocabulary. Except that in this case, the words are spoken by
good actors, and all those visuals get up off their feet and move.

It's hard to describe the impact of watching a McKean painting move and
talk. There might be those who quibble about the movie looking too
animated, but of course that's exactly the point: to create a world and
make it dance. The end result, visually at least, is like nothing
you've ever seen before, and absolutely worth seeing for that reason
alone.

Some of the people I talked to after the screening also loved the
visuals but felt the story was a bit dull, that they had seen it all
before. Well, it's true that the story does wear its influences on its
sleeve--a little "Alice in Wonderland" here, a little "Time Bandits"
there, a lot of "Wizard of Oz" over here, not to mention a resemblance
to Gaiman's own "Coraline." But I'm just as familiar with those stories
as anyone else, and the resemblances never interrupted my enjoyment of
"MirrorrMask"--after all, it's what you do with a story that determines
its success. And from moment to moment, there was enough innovation and
cleverness, enough delight and wonder, to make the movie a positive
delight.

I can imagine kids sitting in the audience with their eyes agog; and I
can imagine their parents sitting next to them, just as agog for a
whole different set of reasons. "MirrorMask" may or may not be too wild
to be a full-out commercial success; but I predict it's going to have a
long, long shelf life. I know I'll be buying the DVD as soon as it's
available, so that I can show it to people and say "Wait till you see
this."
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review, so pardon me for any clumsiness in its
composition. As such I am nervously avoiding any discussion of the
plot, lest I spoil anything.

This is a continuation of the tradition of fantastical films about the
adolescent transition of young women. Other films in this vein are
"Alice in Wonderland", "Paperhouse",and "Labrynth." The film was
produced by Henson Studios, and is presented like their other features,
but rather than puppets and elaborate sets, animation replaces those
elements.

Visually I found it stunning. I am familiar with McKean's work, and I
found this to be amongst his best. It was distinctly McKean's style.
The use of color was phenomenal, as well as surreal composition. I was
enthralled seeing his creations in literal motion, rather than the
usual implied motion. I personally thought there were a number of
visual references to other great films, but I'll leave that to your
opinion. I thought the direction clearly demonstrated his grasp of
composition.

The writing was true to Gaiman's tradition of off-beat fairy tales. The
pacing was dreamlike, flowing between slow moments of beauty and
exposition to frenetic moments of fierce action. Humor, dark and
otherwise, punctuated the film. The dialogue was very strong.

I was also very fond of the use of sound. One scene is a frightening
and beautiful music video, that can be lifted out of the film
completely and carry itself. It fits better in the film, but doesn't
need to.

The film fits extremely well with all of the previous Henson
Productions. I suggest having seen "Dark Crystal", "Labrynth", and "Jim
Henson's The Storyteller" before viewing this. The piece fits very well
with these.
<|_=00=_|>
The audience that showed up for the Sundance premiere of this gem was
quite diverse. Some came for Neil Gaiman, some for Dave McKean and the
rest for the Jim Henson legacy. Based on my informal polls conducted in
waiting list lines around Salt Lake City, everyone got what they
wanted.

The visuals -- as you would expect from a move involving Henson's
company -- are simply stunning. Most of the movie is blue-screen, which
is quite unbelievable for a movie made for a mere $4 million. The human
actors blend into the gorgeous painting-like backgrounds (google
McKean's art and you will understand that this is quite a feat), and do
an outstanding job of interacting with the digital characters.

Only 17 people -- all freshly graduated students -- worked on the
animation, but the result looks like 170 professionals did. It should
be noted however that Dave McKean spent 18 months in post-production,
pretty much 24/7.

The weakest part of the movie is the story. Dave and Neil came up with
the outline over 3 days, and worked out the details as they filmed. The
end result is a run-of-the-mill Alice in Wonderland rip-off, with some
elements from Labyrinth and other familiar children's tales.

I have to give extra credit to Stephanie Leonidas, who does a great job
bringing Helena, a girl who ends up lost in the world of her
Dali-meets-Picasso-meets-McKean drawings, to life.

I hope this movie will get picked up for theater distribution, because
it deserves to be seen on the big-screen. In any case, McKean fans will
be happy to hear that a Mirrormask picture book is in the works that
will contain the 1700 drawings produced for the movie...

If you get a chance, go see this movie. It should be fun for children
of all ages. If it comes to theaters, I will go see it again, and will
give it an A again :)
<|_=00=_|>
This is a visually mesmerizing film that takes movie fantasy into new
territory. Think Alice in Wonderland meets Wizard of Oz performed by
Cirque de Soleil. MirrorMask takes a comic-book approach to Good vs.
Evil, with 15-year-old Helena as the protagonist who must find the
MirrorMask and save the Light Kingdom.

But the story isn't nearly as important as the fantastic creatures and
hallucinatory imagery that parade non-stop through Helena's fantastic
journey. Director and writer (and frequent collaborators) Dave McKean
and Neil Gaiman leap into the movie business with extraordinary
confidence and derring-do. They are both legendary successes and have a
devoted fan base from comic books (the Sandman series, for one),
novels, short stories, posters, CD art, and much more.

It quickly becomes clear that MirrorMask is the creation of talented
and imaginative artists completely unfettered by the bounds of
traditional film-making. As a result, it is a bold departure from
anything you have ever seen on the screen before. The story is simple
enough and the visuals so wondrous that most children should find the
movie enjoyable (unless they've become action-oriented adrenaline
addicts). Yet the writing is sufficiently deep to satisfy the most
thoughtful of adults.

I spoke to both McKean and Gaiman at one of the Sundance screenings and
found them both polite, thoughtful and interesting. I told them that
MirrorMask was the kind of movie I wanted to see again immediately. It
is lovely enough to warrant a second look. And there's enough meat on
the bones to go back and catch what you might have missed. The last
movie I felt that way about was Memento, one of my all-time favorites.
<|_=00=_|>
MirrorMask is like the crack baby of Labyrinth and Alice in
Wonderland--but this baby is more stylized, modern, and incredibly
beautiful.

I am a huge fan of both Dave McKean and Neil Gaiman's work. I consider
myself lucky, because I was able to meet Neil at the Salt Lake Public
Library a couple of years ago, and I was treated to a sneak preview of
MirrorMask at the San Diego Comic Convention in 2004. And amazingly
enough, I got to see the film at the Sundance Film Festival on January
29th-- and Neil and Dave were there again. So, I've felt attached to
this project for a while.

This is a film that children and adults will adore. The humor is great,
and the characters are immediately enjoyable and identifiable. Helena,
the main character, possesses the kind of wide-eyed wonderment and
tenacious attitude that all viewers will find believably endearing. The
other characters range from strangely beautiful and frightening, as in
the Black Queen, to comical and seemingly ordinary, as in the sardonic
juggler, Valentine. The background characters are beautifully rendered
and reflect McKean's style perfectly. The costume design is
particularly outstandingdetails are not overlooked. One could view the
film a dozen times and still see new surprises.

Like Labyrinth, the film follows Helena through a journey of
self-discovery, where she ultimately begins to understand the
importance of her herself and her familyand of the ultimate power of
hope. As a child, I was captivated by Labyrinth's Sarah character, and
I think younger generations will latch onto Helena just as quickly.
Helena is more believable though, than Sarahand her role is a positive
one. She is a strong, intelligent, and inquisitive girl, just on the
verge of womanhood.

The entire film floored meI feel so lucky to have seen it. If any of
you have a chance to see it, do so immediately. Hopefully, the film
will be released to theaters around the country this would be an
especially wise move, as I'm sure it will become a classic fantasy film
for all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
So many people loved this movie, yet there are a few of us IMDb
reviewers who found Mirrormask excruciatingly uncomfortable to watch
and arse-clenchingly boring. I fall into the latter of these two camps,
and I will try to explain what it was that made my toenails curl so
unpleasantly.

Firstly, to set the record straight - I like Neil Gaiman's books. I
sometimes find his knowing, sarcastic, 'wry asides' humour a little
geeky, and I actually prefer his work when he is playing it straight
and leaving the jokes alone - but, even with his occasional lapses into
crap 'dad' gags, I find his creativity and imagination to be something
a bit special.

Interestingly, one of Gaiman's strongest works is Coraline, a Gothic
fairy story for kids that is very low on jokes and high on tension and
creepiness. His latest novel (Anansi Boys) overdoes the funnies, and
tends to read at times like Terry Pratchett does the Sisters of Mercy
(not the nuns but the band). Mirrormask inhabits similar territory to
Coraline, and when I saw the stunning visuals in the trailer, I got a
bit excited that somebody had managed to transfer Gaiman's spectacular
vision and imagination to the screen.

In praise of the film, some sequences do look stunning. However, the
visual effects are occasionally ruined by CGI animation that looks like
a Media Studies student project. Backgrounds and scenery are often
incredible, but some of the character animation looks clumsy, amateur
and cheap. In an early dream sequence, the spider is animated
beautifully, but the book-eating cat-beast looks poorly rendered and
very 'computer generated'. Compared with the standard of animation
found in productions such as 'The Corpse Bride', Mirrormask
occasionally looks very amateur indeed. However, in Mirrormask's
defence, the budget was tiny for such a grand vision, and a few creaks
in the effects can be understood and forgiven.

What cannot be forgiven is the stilted, stagy, cringeworthy and
pretentious dialogue. The actors struggle desperately with the dialogue
- and there is so much of it that they are constantly hampered and
stumbling over it. Conversation is rendered completely unnatural, the
jokes fall flat time and time again, and the turgid speeches appear to
be the writer's only method of plot exposition. Combined with the fact
that the actors are working against a blue screen (which always adds an
element of 'Phantom Menace') - this renders the film almost
unwatchable. In such an unreal setting the actors need to work twice as
hard to be believed, and in the main they fail terribly. The girl who
plays the lead role puts in a valiant struggle against the impossible
stage-school dialogue, and occasionally shows real promise, but it is
never enough. The god-awful cod-'Oirish' of the Valentine character
(with whom she is forced to spend an inordinate amount of screen time)
puts paid to any chance of this young actress rising above the
material. It appears to be Valentine's job to explain the plot to
younger viewers, and to add a bit of light relief. Personally, I
wouldn't want him anywhere near my 15 year old daughter.

What else is wrong with this film? Answer....Rob Brydon. What's
annoying (for us Brits, anyway) is we know Rob Brydon can act! We've
seen him hold the screen for half-an-hour on his own (doing those
'Marion & Geoff' monologues), and in the first 'real world' bit of the
film he is fine. However, stick him in front of a blue screen and he
loses all sense of character and turns into the worst am-dram-ham I've
seen in years. A real shame.

What else is wrong? Answer... the wanky slap-bassing, sub-Courtney Pine
saxing and unlistenable, too-high-in-the-mix soundtrack that never
shuts up. God, the music is incessant, loud, distracting, irrelevant
and, if that isn't enough, has wanky slap bass wanking all over it. It
makes the dialogue very hard to hear, but that could be a blessing in
disguise.

What else is wrong with it? Answer.... The whistling mime artist. In
modern society there should be no place for mime, apart from certain
secret places in France. Every moment the camera lingers on the
gurning, whistling, moss-juggling, yogurt-weaving idiot, I understand
why the Edinburgh locals get a bit anxious and fractious when Festival
time comes round again.

My final criticism is that the film is pretty dull. Surrealism often is
dull  it either requires its audience to slip into a dreamlike, Zen,
accepting state, or for the audience be constantly wowed by bigger and
grander surprises. A story with a bit of pace involving characters that
we could believe in and care about would have gone a long way to giving
this film the emotional centre that it sadly lacked, whilst stopping
the eyelids from drooping.

Finally, apologies to all those who found depth, meaning and wonder in
this film. You have managed to suspend your disbelief, you have seen
past the creaky CGI, ignored the crappy dialogue and the abysmal
performances that resulted, and understood the maker's grand,
imaginative vision. I wanted to, but I couldn't see past the real-world
failings that dragged it down.

I hope Neil Gaiman gets it right next time, if he gets (or even wants)
the opportunity.
<|_=00=_|>
The medium of film is--like the medium of writing or other celebrated
media--practically limitless in potential for fantastic creations.
However, the fantasy (NOT SCI FI) genre is severely underrepresented in
it. For every Lord of the Rings, we have ten attempts at The Matrix.

But what better alchemical mix to straight-up fantasy can we have than
Neil Gaiman, Dave McKean, and the Henson Company? One thing Henson
could do with his puppets that many others never really aspired to do
was create fantasy the likes that weren't really done again, and his
legacy lives on, using the enriching and creative mind of Gaiman, the
celebrated British fantasy writer and comic book artist whose vivid
imagination was so perfectly translated into film using practically
every chemical for fantasy possible: CGI, animation, painting, set
design, split-screen, superimposition, saturated colors, I even think
there were moments of stop-motion animation.

The story is about a fifteen-year-old girl named Helena who works for a
circus. Her creative and artistic mind keeps her busy from day to day
until her mother falls ill and has to go to the hospital. Blaming it on
herself for a row she had with her mother, Helena "escapes" into
dreamland... or does she? I think what's really refreshing about this
film is that, despite what a lot of people say about it, it's NOT that
much like Alice and Wonderland. I can't help but think that, despite
the fact that this film uses a lot of tropes common to the fantasy
genre, it's distinct and original, something to be admired and
appreciated. I don't think anything in this film really came off as
that clichéd, even though it did come across as familiar. It might even
be possible to say that anybody who has a real problem with it is just
taking it too seriously, but that argument always goes in the wrong
direction so forget about it.

One of the things I think that's important about a film like this is
that it's not really a kids movie. Children could watch it, easily, and
be fine with it, but it's not directed just to them. It isn't really
directed at a target audience in the genre sense. It is simply fantasy
for fantasy's sake, going where a lot of filmmakers seem desperate to
avoid because "It's just not real enough." That's why, despite the fact
that this movie has pretty obvious CGI, it doesn't matter as much as
the obvious CGI in The Hulk: it's so fantastic, it helps that it
doesn't seem real.

Too bad it just won't get the marketing or the attention it deserves,
probably ever. That's why if it's ever considered a classic at all,
it'll be a cult classic. Such seems the destination of many things that
dare to be what they want and not what others want them to be.

--PolarisDiB
<|_=00=_|>
Dave McKean and Neil Gaiman's MirrorMask is the quintessential Alice in
Wonderland story. The world that these two immensely gifted artists and
storytellers have created is the very definition of mind-blowing,
offering up one of the most astonishing and original fantasy realms
since Marc Caro and Jean-Pierre Jeunet's The City of Lost Children over
a decade ago. The amazing dreamscapes of Helena is truly Dave McKean's
art brought to life, and is just through and through a perfect fit for
Neil Gaiman's highly imaginative and at times quirky style of writing.
The character inhabiting this strange tale, both the flesh and blood
ones as well as those digitally rendered, are every bit as memorable as
their surroundings. Stephanie Leonidas is quite simply a revelation as
Helena, giving her a childlike innocence that, together with the
emotionally rough seas of a teenager, makes for a very fascinating and
real-felt performance. And you wouldn't for a second believe her to be
anything but a troubled teen, despite her actual twenty-two years of
age. Gina McKee delivers an equally impressive performance as Helena's
mother, Joanne, and as the Dark Queen she has such a stunning presence
about her that not even the most wicked of witches or evil of
step-mothers could overshadow her for even the fraction of a second.
Dave McKean's feature film directorial debut is a masterpiece, short
and simple, and the feast that he serves up with MirrorMask is one that
I most definitely will never tire of...
<|_=00=_|>
Title: Mirrormask (2005) 

Director: Dave McKean 

Cast: Stephanie Leonidas, Gina McKee, Rob Brydon, Jason Barry, Dora
Bryan 

Review: Dave McKean and Neil Gaiman have partnered up in the past to
write some visually astounding children's books. McKean would take care
of the artwork and Gaiman would take care of the story. This time
around they have joined forces to create a film that very closely
resembles their previous colaborations. Only this time around, the
images move and actors say the words in this way helping to bring
McKeans art and Gaimans words to vibrant life.

The story in Mirrormask is about a young girl called Helena. Her
parents run a circus and she has been brought up in the circus
environment, but lately shes been feeling like shes not really cut up
for circus life. Helena and her mother have a fight about her not
wanting to be in the circus anymore and she wishes her mother would
die. On that same day, her mother falls ill and ends up in the hospital
and Helenas conscience begins to bother her, after all, she did wish
her mother was dead. And now she is close to dying. So once Helena
falls as sleep thinking about all these things she enters her imaginary
dreamworld where everything has a representation of what she knows from
real life.

This is a very visual film. McKean fills the screen with his lush
imagery. If you've seen McKeans artwork and know how beautiful it is,
then you know how incredible it is to see his pictures come to life on
this film. This movie is eye candy, and for those of you out there who
love art and love films that give their utter most importance to their
visual aspect, then you will love this movie. McKean fills the screen
with really outlandish, strange, weird and dreamlike situations.
Nothing is what you would expect.

Some people might feel that this type of movie is all style and art and
no substance simply because its such a visual film. But I sincerely
think that this is not the case with Mirrormask. With a writer like
Neil Gaiman in charge, well, you can almost tell that the movie is
going to have some deep psychological themes going on for it. And it
does. Every character, every situation, every word spoken in Helenas
dream world means something in Helenas real life. So be on the look out
for those comparisons.

The movie has some truly astounding sequences that left me breathless
and my jaw was dropping. First there was the giants orbiting sequence
with these huge stone giants floating in the air and then there's this
sequence in which Helena gets transformed into a dark princess that is
simply amazing. They really did a good job of mixing music with visuals
in that sequence. You'll just have to wait and see it to understand how
beautiful it is.

This movie wears its influences on its sleaves and has no problems in
showing that. There's many similarities between this movie and
Labyrinth, Legend and most of all The Never Ending Story. Its the only
thing I didn't love about this movie. It felt like they remade The
Never Ending Story with elements from Labyrinth and Legend. Take all
those movies, shake em together, add a little bit of psychological
depth and incredible visuals and you've got Mirrormask. So if there's
anything bad to say, its that in its narrative, its similar to a few
other films. But on a visual level, its a whole other thing, so that
sort of balances its self out.

I liked the fact that Helena wasn't a dumb little girl. She was very
head strong and very smart. She wasn't a dumb little girl stumbling
across a strange landscape. She was quick and witty and she realizes
the situation in which she is in quickly and I liked that about her
character which was very well played by Stephanie Leonides.

So in conclusion, this film will blow you away with both its visuals
and its story. Its a mixed bag of other films you've seen before story
wise, but on a visual level the film will be like nothing you've ever
seen before.

Rating: 5 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
I have just returned from seeing this wonderful little film. From the
summary, it is obvious to most that not only is this, for the most
part, a children's film, but it borrows from the classic "girl trapped
in another world as a metaphor for growing up". We're even treated to a
brief shot of a man juggling glass balls a la David Bowie in
"Labirynth". The obvious "Alice in Wonderland-esquire" story makes
things a bit predictable since we've seen it several times, but if one
were to sit back and enjoy the magic and the characters, then enjoyment
is practically guaranteed. It is a very family-friendly movie because
of this.

At the same time, the art crowd will instantly recognize the names of
Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean. Gaiman is the author of such novels as
"American Gods" and "Neverwhere" and also is a comic writer that
reached fame with his metaphysical masterpiece series "The Sandman".
McKean, likewise, is a famed graphic designer and also worked with
Gaiman on "Sandman". They have both collaborated on children's books as
well. McKean's brilliant design work and Gaiman's delightful characters
are evident throughout. Those seeking more cerebral movies will not be
displeased.

The only negatives of this movie is that it slows a bit in some places
and the effects are sometimes "too pretty" and might be a distraction.
These are only two small drawbacks in what is otherwise a great film. I
know I will not be the only one hopeful that this will be the first in
many movies that will be involved in the Jim Henson Company's comeback.
