
I had the opportunity to see this film tonight at a free screening at a
theater in Chelsea, NY with the director David Spade, Melissa George
and Josh Hartnett all present at the screening and I walked in
expecting another run of the mill vampire movie and walked away
pleasantly surprised.

It's no question that over the last 9 years the whole Vampire trend has
been overdone to death. Blade spawned a sudden interest in a subject
that has been around forever but hadn't been refreshed in quite some
time. After Blade, enter Buffy the Vampire Slayer TV series and so on
and so forth until the whole vampire trend had well worn its welcome. A
few years pass and here's yet another vampire story. What makes this
story any different? The graphic novel, 30 Days of Night, put together
by the talented team that worked on Todd McFarlane's stunning
"Hellspawn" series, Steve Niles and Ben Templesmith found a way to do
something creative within the vampire realm, and its completely to do
with premise.

That premise being, vampires being allowed to run amok freely in Alaska
during a 30 day period when there is no sun to force them into
hibernation during the day. Its simple yet fresh enough to maintain my
interest, it's a wonder no one had thought to write this story until
now.

What's important to note is that the story does not go into too much
detail about the leading characters personal lives, nor does it go into
too much detail about the vampires themselves. We don't know how they
came to be and what their philosophy is (besides sucking blood) and
that's a good thing, Its plunged strait into action and this lack of
over characterization, actually helps to strengthen this story.

Despite the Alaska angle the film and the story itself is nothing
really original. Even the vampires themselves are nothing we haven't
seen before. Black trench coats and a mouthful of fangs, speaking in a
foreign tongue with an evil squeal. But it's okay. I've seen it before
but that doesn't mean that it's not going to make the movie any less
entertaining.

Where this movie is successful is in the fact that it's handled in a
very realistic way. Nothing is too over the top, Evan; Josh Hartnett's
character is a believable and very human sheriff. He doesn't do
anything in this movie that doesn't seem plausible, in fact the film
has very little cringe moments and hardy any cheesy dialogue.

But it doesn't take itself too seriously either. It is what it is; an
extremely gory movie about vampires killing people and it's thrilling,
entertaining and put together very well. Its so basic that it works,
not since the Decent had I seen a horror movie that succeeded in this
matter by keeping the story basic and believable and not relying on
cheap tricks to try and thrill the audience. Of course there's the
sudden jump moments, but you don't see Even leaping over dumpsters
shooting off semi-automatic weapons and spurting out one liners.

When it comes to the films performances, the supporting actors do a
good job and the ever dopey and extremely untalented Josh Hartnett whom
I never fail to dislike, in everything he does, somehow seemed almost
likable in this movie and I don't know why, but I did like him in this
roll.

Some of the shots in this movie are incredible; I can honestly say I've
never seen anything like a few scenes that popped up in this movie.
There's an overhead shot that spans the entire town amidst all of the
chaos of the vampire attack and I can honestly say it is breathtaking.

Overall it's a very strong film for its genre, dare I say one of the
best. You simply can't compare it to Citizen Cane, or the Godfather but
for what it is, its very good. If you like graphic novels, liked the
Decent, like horror or sci-fi. Or Vampires. You'll be pleased. Well
worth it for free and if I had played would be satisfied.
<|_=00=_|>
As night begins to fall for a thirty day spell over a small Alaskan
outpost village, a motley crew of vampires comes waltzing in for a
feast in David Slade's adaptation of the graphic novel, "30 Days of
Night." Ever since "Interview with the Vampire" vampires have been
depicted in films as something hip, cool, and sexy. Recently the idea
of becoming a vampire is like making a fashion statement or becoming a
Scientologist. In "30 Days of Night" the vampires are nameless,
cunning, animal-like bloodsuckers and far from mindless zombies (which
have been more popular of late). Finally, vampires are restored to film
as monsters to be feared and not as some sympathetic and alluring
subculture.

The film grabs you from its opening shot of a man walking through a
desolate snow covered landscape away from an ominous boat docked in the
ice and never lets go. Director Slade wisely avoids many of the
seizure-inducing trappings of recent horror films. Sure, there are the
prerequisite quick-cuts in the intimate scenes of carnage, but there
are also haunting wide-angled shots and one expertly staged
bird's-eye-view crane shot when the vampires first begin dragging
people out of their houses into the street. While successfully adapting
some of the great imagery from the graphic novel, Slade is fully aware
that this is still a film and shies away from CGI and overly-stylized
lighting and effects that would detract from the sense of realism
necessary in a far-fetched horror film such as this.

Slade also makes good use of his cast. Danny Huston is perfectly creepy
as the vampires' leader. Josh Hartnett, who is typically miscast and
emotionless, actually fits well the role of a wooden Sheriff of a
remote Alaskan town. Ben Foster, who always overacts, is used
effectively here in a bit role as an over-the-top Reinfield-like
character who ushers the vampires' arrival in town. Melissa George is
pretty and sympathetic as Hartnett's estranged wife. Like many serious
horror films of recent memory ("Dawn of the Dead" or "The Descent") the
film attempts some character development that is often "emo" but never
overplays its hand.

Aside from being better directed and better acted than your
run-of-the-mill horror flick, "30 Days of Night" is also fantastically
gory. Decaptation aficionados will especially rejoice. Refreshing, too,
is the way it takes its gore and action dead seriously. There are no
silly one-liners or graphic sight gags. The characters are deeply
affected by what they witness and what they have to do to survive. This
is pure horror, and it's relentless.

Yes, there are some missteps with the film's pacing and some huge leaps
of logic in the amount of time that passes between events. However, for
the shear originality of its central conceit, the intensity of the
gore, and the haunting quality of many of its signature shots, David
Slade's "30 Days of Night" is the most exhilarating horror film since
Danny Boyle's original "28 Days Later" and the best vampire film since
Francis Ford Coppola delivered "Bram Stoker's Dracula" back in 1992.
<|_=00=_|>
"30 Days of Night" is a very welcome addition to the ranks of vampire
movies. This one is strictly for horror fans, not for doily-draped
gender-confused romantics dreaming of third degree hickies from pretty
fanged lovers in New Orleans.

The fun begins in the first frame, courtesy of the evocative setting, a
snowbound town at the Northern edge of America. The only iffy moment
comes with the introduction of Josh Hartnett as the town sheriff. Young
and movie star handsome, he threatens to come off as unbelievable, like
the Ben Affleck sheriff in "Phantoms." Hartnett, however, despite his
young years, has the gravitas to pull off this role, and director David
Slade gets masterful performances from all the fine actors in this
film.

Melissa George is scrumptiously beautiful. (Her mouth is so cute it
should be patented.) She's also an excellent actress, who horror fans
should remember from the recent (and highly recommended) remake of The
Amityville Horror. With her endearing little girl face and keen talent
for playing it straight under the most fantastic of circumstances,
she's likable, sympathetic and totally believable in this role.

What really sets this film apart though is its portrayal of the
vampires. Someone obviously boned up on ancient vampire legends,
because these are the most authentic movie vampires since Boris
Karloff's "wurdalak" in Mario Bava's "Black Sabbath" 40 years ago.

Speaking in a strange Eastern European tongue (Romanian? or Hungarian?)
these creatures bear the remains of human personalities, but are purely
evil; cunning and vicious and blood-stained, like vampires were before
Bram Stoker introduced the "new improved" (i.e. sanitized) Victorian
model and Anne Rice gussied it up even more.

Fans of Kathryn Bigelow's "Near Dark" and John Carpenter's "Vampires"
will appreciate the high action and body count. The story is a bit
slimmer than either of those two films (it is based on a comic book,
after all) but it's very atmospheric and suspenseful, with superb
production values all around.

The visual efx are topnotch, especially when they're subtle, such as
snowflakes adding their magical luster to a scene. The special make-up
efx (blood and guts et al) are completely believable, but aside from a
few very graphic images and much spilled blood in the snow, are not as
overwhelming as some overly squeamish reviewers have claimed.

The cinematography is gorgeous, and is enhanced by the seamlessly
integrated visual effects noted above.

If you're in the mood for a nicely paced, well-produced, superbly
directed movie that'll satisfy your craving for a dose of traditional
horror, you can't go wrong with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
"30 Days of Night" is easily one of the best horror movies I've seen in
a very long time mostly because everyone involved seemed to know
exactly what it takes to make a decent horror movie. It's not obscene
amounts of gore or monsters jumping out at the camera that make a movie
scary. It's creepy atmosphere that makes a movie particularly scary,
and this movie does a great job at creating the kind of atmosphere that
fills the viewer with the kind of dread that so many movies fail to
achieve. It's not perfect, but it's still better than just about every
horror movie I've seen since "The Descent" (which also relied on a
creepy atmosphere to fill the viewer with a sense of dread and
hopelessness).

This movie is set in the small town of Barrow, Alaska, the northernmost
town in the U.S. Because it is so far up north, there comes a time
every winter where the sun doesn't rise for 30 days. The fact that this
translates into a month without sunlight attracts a group of vampires
who attack the town and spend the month feeding on its citizens.
Eventually only a handful of humans remain in town, and they must
survive the month without starving, freezing, or being killed by the
vampires. It's a fairly simple concept, yet the director makes it work
incredibly well. There is a sense of dread and hopelessness that
permeates this entire film. Barrow is a town that appears to be cut off
from the rest of the world. It seems to be surrounded by a sea of white
on all sides, and the citizens seem to be stuck in a state of
depression. Barrow seems to be the worst place in the world to be, and
that's before the sun sets and the vampires show up. When the vampires
do make themselves known, that sense of isolation and hopelessness
turns into a feeling of dread that doesn't go away. One really gets the
sense that there is no escape for the small group of survivors. This
feeling is made all the more real by the long periods between the
vampire attacks. Normally I consider long periods where not much
happens a bad thing, but here it works in the film's favor. We may not
always see the vampires, but their presence is always felt. At any
given time in the movie one can see blood splattered onto snow and hear
the distant screams and occasional gunfire of yet another one of
Barrow's citizens getting killed, and it's easy to get the feeling that
any of the main characters could be the next to die. The vampires
themselves are also unlike any we've seen in movies for some time. They
aren't the kind of seductive and charming vampires that seem to show up
in every other horror movie. These vampires are feral, ruthless, and
sadistic, with sharp crocodile-like teeth and bloodstained clothes.
There's nothing romantic about them or their actions; they just want to
kill people and drink their blood. It helps that they get far less
screen time than the human characters; normally we only see them as
shadows in the background stalking their prey. When they do attack,
it's incredibly vicious and horrifyingly violent (the first large-scale
attack on the town is a particular highlight of this film). This
viciousness adds to the hopelessness and vulnerability of the humans
while making the vampires seem like some of the scariest movie monsters
to come along in a while.

If I can find any fault in this movie, it's that the ending seems a bit
contrived and cliché. It doesn't take too much away from the movie
though; to complain about it is really nitpicking more than anything.
Overall it's one of the best horror movies I've seen in a long time,
and easily the best vampire movie to come along in years. I would
definitely recommend it, especially since it's a good alternative to
the endless "torture porn" we've been seeing from this genre for the
last few years.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't think i could get exited by watching a vampire movie ever
again. All the greats have made fine use of the mythology, Francis Ford
Coppola, Neil Jordan, Steven Norrington, Guillermo Del Toro and lets
not forget one of the greatest F. W. Murnau. 

30 Day of Night, is a delightfully nasty horror, which has once again
has wet my appetite to see those whom are fanged back on celluloid.
These vampire's are just scary, no sexual innuendo, they are just plain
beasts.

The films Comic book origins are quite evident through the film, one of
its main draw cards is that it looks beautiful, the cinematography is
fabulous, the punchy electro rock score used is effectively scarce
during the film, silence is the films most potent suspense weapon.

The Cast is great, Josh Hartnet Putting probably the best performance
of his career, but it's Ben Foster who really steals the show, I've
never seen a actor possessed by their own character to that extent
since Anthony Hopkins and Lector. Mellisa George is perfectly fine, i
wasn't blown away, but Danny Huston was superbly Menacing, his presence
in the film was foreboding.

Now to the films few flaws, the amazing build up, that incorporated the
mystery of what exactly was going on in the town was swiftly ripped
away by full on carnage, this was a little distracting, but soon the
suspense returned.

I have to recommend this film, i don't really understand why people
arn't liking the film. It's very old fashioned in its approach, most
probably why it is so brilliant. give it a go.

Recommendation: If you call yourself a horror fan, you really shouldn't
dislike it
<|_=00=_|>
Sinister, brutal, and unrelentingly violent, 30 Days of Night is the
best vampire movie  and likely best horror movie  to be unleashed
upon audiences this year. As fear and dread gradually give way to
full-blown terror as the ruthless vampires descend upon the isolated
town, the audience is never given a moment to catch their breath. No
one is safe and seldom does a sliver of hope surface in the rapidly
diminishing chance of survival in this world submersed in darkness.
Though the story grounds itself in preconceived vampire mythos, the
visuals do not, and a masterpiece of bloody violence emerges, revealing
such intensely vicious imagery that fans of the genre (as well as the
original graphic novel) will revel in the carnage.

In Barrow, Alaska, the northernmost city in the world, once a year
during the winter, the sun disappears for 30 days. Isolated by 80 miles
of ice and snow, the town prepares for the lightless month. But a group
of blood-starved vampires have made their way into the shadowy environs
of Barrow to feast on the town, concerned only with satisfying their
feeding frenzy. Quickly killing off the majority of townsfolk, the
vampires hunt for a small remaining group of survivors led by Eben
Oleson (Josh Hartnett) and his wife Stella (Melissa George), who must
wait out the horrifying 30 days of night.

It is refreshing to see a vampire film that doesn't shy away from
violence and that doesn't dwell on anything that can be even remotely
construed as hokey. A new cinematic creature, 30 Days of Night's
antagonists are ultra scary with their deformed appearances and their
mercilessly gut-wrenching killing sprees. They speak in their own
demonic language and have super human strength and speed, making them a
Michael Myers fashioned juggernaut. High-pitched shrieks, blood-soaked
visages and razor-sharp fingernails complete a frightening design of
this force to be reckoned with.

The character designs are not just notable for the vampires, but also
for Eben and Stella, who are brilliantly portrayed by Josh Hartnett and
Melissa George. 30 Days of Night is not just about brutal vampire
melees, but about sacrifice and protecting loved ones regardless of the
dangers. Particularly powerful scenes continually arise as the
struggling survivors are forced to cede to unbearable situations to
ensure the survival of others. Eben too must make difficult choices to
provide leadership for the group and to preserve his fragile
relationship with his wife Stella. While it's difficult to judge
authentic reactions to a vampire outbreak, the characters all perform
honestly and emotionally to any event that could just have easily been
grounded deeper in reality.

From beheadings to animal violence, to the slaughter of children, to
maniacal misuse of a snow plow, 30 Days of Night douses you in blood
and suspense. A few minutes into the film we are immersed in quick,
gritty violence and intensity and it never lets up until the climactic
conclusion. Never has a film been so white-knuckle thrilling and
jaw-dropping shocking from start to finish. As a horror film, 30 Days
of Night succeeds admirably due to its fast-paced, stunning visuals,
and explosive action. A nonstop thrill ride guaranteed to please fans
of the original groundbreaking graphic novel as well as newcomers to
the genius of David Slade (Hard Candy) and Steve Niles (writer of the
original comics).
<|_=00=_|>
I am typically not a great fan of vampire films. However,this movie is
a new take on an old legend. The setting is fantastic and what could be
more scary than 30 days of endless night when you are besieged by
vampires. These are not your fathers vampires,nothing seductive or even
campy about these guys. They are what the vampire was originally
supposed to have been..SCARY! I think of all setting..an arctic or
Alaskan frozen,isolated area is a great stage for horror and suspense.
Movies like Howard Hawks "The Thing from Another World" and its 1982
sequel "The Thing" use the same setting with admirable results. Even
the underrated Stephen King mini-series "Storm of the Century" uses the
same cold,barren and isolated setting to create tension,despair and
hopelessness. The acting is average,if not slightly above,and the mood
and lighting are very good. All in all a movie that made you crave a
little more when it ended..and that is what all movies strive for.
Although it could have had a few improvements and should have provided
a little more background for the story(things sort of just go to hell
all at once),it is most definitely a film worth a couple hours of your
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Clichéd to death. Movies in this genre will do the following. A group
trying to survive in a crisis with always have at least one person who
is completely stupid and gives the game away. This movie has different
versions of this; a senile old man, someone not being quiet when
they're told repeatedly to be quiet and someone running into the open
after some one else. There are also people investigating strange
noises, a person prophesising that everyone is doomed, and loud noises
to make the audience jump by means of compensating for the poor story
and plot development. There are also the gratuitous gore scenes.

Poor story. Vampires hunting in an area that has complete darkness for
about 30 days sounds like a good concept, and in true Hollywood
fashion, someone probably signed the cheque based on that one sentence.
The main story follows (or at least attempts to follow) the people of
this Alaskan town as they attempt to hide and survive from vampires who
have appeared from nowhere. Eventually they go away when Josh kills one
of them after turning himself into one to save his ex-girlfriend. I
could go on, but there really isn't any point.

Plot development. None. We know virtually nothing about these
characters except for the main vampire who claims there isn't a god.
Josh Hartnett's character had relationship issues with another
character although we don't know what. The characters are all one
dimensional, who occasionally look intense or emotional during the
extreme close-ups. 

Directing. Extreme close-ups, fast filming, and aggressive editing
makes this movie fairly difficult to sit through and it seems to be the
latest fashion for this genre.

So to summarise: don't see this movie, even if you're a fan of the
genre. I'm predicting poor DVD sales for this one.

Sequel. Hopefully there wont be a sequel. If there is, I recommend that
it is called "30 Days of Day" where an Alaskan town goes mad during
mid-summer because they're suffering from insomnia and believe they are
Daywalker vampires. I would go to see that. May I can get funding for
that! Anyone want in on that project?
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is not a complete masterpiece, but it is damn close. It
features cool vampires attacking an isolated town, people fighting for
their lives, scenes with actual emotional impact and lots of blood. Oh,
and Melissa George!

Somehow I have missed this movie when it appeared so I watched it back
to back with the sequel that appeared in 2010. Man, were they
completely different! If this film made me immediately jump to the
computer and start the sequel to see how it continues, the other made
me watch it in fast-forward.

The film gets a little of that Swedish movie Låt den rätte komma: the
vampires are human-like, but not human; they are strong and fast and
deadly; they do not glitter, wear fashionable clothing or have other
interests than drinking your blood. In a sense it is similar to Near
Dark as well.

Bottom line: There are holes in the plot and it doesn't really try to
create a vampire mythos at all. But that is a good thing, as it adds to
the gritty, visceral feel of the movie. It is the proof that vampire
movies can be good! Therefore my recommendation is that you should not
miss this film, but definitely avoid the Uwe-Boll-like sequel from
2010.
<|_=00=_|>
First, here's a bit of backstory for you. As you know by now, Streebo
is a long time reader of comic books and when the story of 30 Days of
Night came out in 2003 (?) I was eager to read it. I was immediately
impressed by the simplicity of the concept  if not the execution. Ben
Templesmith's dark and atmospheric art helped keep the book horrific
and violent throughout. The story by Steve Niles was unchallenging,
simple and brilliant all at the same time. I remember reading the book
and thinking this was a cool enough graphic novel  but it would make
an amazing movie. Apparently Steve Niles originally wrote 30 Days of
Night as a screenplay and shopped it around Hollywood for years. He
never drew interest in the script  so he converted the script into a
graphic novel. The comic comes out and is a huge hit. The next thing
you know Hollywood comes knocking on Steve Niles' door. Niles dusted
off his script and Sam Raimi's Ghosthouse pictures gave him a one
million dollar check for it. Now fast forward four years later. . .

30 Days of Night tells the story of the northernmost Alaskan town of
Barrow as it prepares to face the seasonal event of 30 sunless days and
nights. Over two thirds of the town's population packs up and leaves
for the month as most people cannot handle the experience of living
through 30 days without seeing the sun. Little do they know there is
something much worse than simple darkness descending upon their town.
30 Days of night follows the story of town sheriff Eben as he struggles
with a small band of locals that try to survive their 30 days trapped
in a town overrun by vampires.

Strange events begin early as Eben discovers that almost ever cell
phone in the town has been stolen and burned to a crisp. Next, every
sled dog in the town is slaughtered. Then the phone lines go out and
lastly the power to the town is cut. It's holy sh)*t time. There are no
namby-pamby-love-me-long-time-I'm-immortal vampires in this film. These
vampires are feral, nasty, and very hungry. The performances from the
cast are strong all around. The vampires are kept in the dark for the
most part  making them extremely frightening when they burst forth to
drag people though the streets and rend them limb from limb.

The cinematography is appropriately atmospheric and captures the bleak
landscape in cold unforgiving detail. There is one moment depicting a
bird's eye view of the town streets as the vampires toss townspeople
about like bloody beads at Mardi Gras. The scene is truly horrific and
breathtaking in it's savagery. The tension starts with a bang as the
vampires swarm through the streets and never lets up as the survivors
try to come to terms with what is happening. 30 Days of Night is a
horror film in every sense of the term. It is cold, humorless and
completely unrelenting. As I watched in stunned silence with the crowd
 I couldn't help but recall the nihilistic tone of John Carpenter's
The Thing. That's high praise indeed coming from me and one I don't
give lightly.

I don't want to talk the film up too much resulting in a letdown of
expectations for some of you. If you're in the need for your theatrical
horror film fix  don't wait for Saw 4  30 Days of Night is waiting to
rip your throat out. Go see it.

Streebo gives 30 Days of Night a 9 out of 10 on the Streebo
Scream-O-Meter.
