
Everyone I know went to see "Monster In Law" for Jane Fonda and in
spite of J Lo. If you go with that spirit, you just may have a
reasonable good time. I hadn't realized how much I missed Jane Fonda
and how wonderful she is, she was she will always be. The film in
itself is just too terrible for words. A showdown between a possessive
mother and a dog walker. The script is unbelievable bad and the
aforementioned Jennifer Lopez is, poor thing, atrocious. She has the
lightness of an elephant and the charm of a blank page but, look at the
billing...Jennifer Lopez right on top, above Jane Fonda. Ridiculous
isn't it? But that's what, I imagine, marketing people decide. What a
shame. If I had been Miss Lopez, I would have used my power to demand
that Jane Fonda's name should appear above mine. I know, I live in a
fantasy world of respect and, if nothing else, good manners. The film
may turn out to be useful as a teaching tool. To show both actresses
together for a how to and how not to. I'm sure Jennifer Lopez must have
been told by someone that she has to cultivate her craft. Her voice,
goodness! A jarring, shrilling clash of tonsils and nasal sounds. Too
late to play cute, virginal girls. A dog walker indeed!
<|_=00=_|>
I had such a thrill watching the unsinkable Jane Fonda making a
wonderful fool of herself that I've actually saw it twice. The second
time with my thumb on the fast forward. I've watched Jane's Viola
interview that Brittany Spears clone many, many times. It's
outrageously close to the knuckle and Fonda goes for it, body and soul.
The problem resides elsewhere. I hope Jennifer Lopez has someone around
her who can tell her the truth. She is so bad that the film can't
recover from the heaviness of her romantic turns. She is the iceberg to
this particular titanic. There is not a moment of sincerity in her
entire performance and the fact that she is standing opposite one of
the most truthful of actresses in the history of acting makes her
appearance all the more jarring. Jane please, gives as more, Jennifer,
go back to school.
<|_=00=_|>
I can visualize the pitch meeting for "Monster-in-Law": "It's a female
version of "Meet the Parents," with Jennifer Lopez as Ben Stiller and
Jane Fonda as Robert DeNiro!" And since neither of its stars has been
burning up the box office latelyLopez hasn't had a big hit since The
Wedding Planner, and Fonda's been off the big screen for 15 years--I
can understand the appeal of a lightweight commercial vehicle. But did
it have to be something THIS witless and unoriginal?

Monster-in-Law's opening scenes play out the like the pilot for a bad
sitcom. Within the first 20 minutes, we've seen Lopez, as Charlotte
"Charlie" Cantilini, handle multiple odd-jobs (including dog-walker,
isn't THAT quirky), toured her movie-set-funky apartment, and met her
obligatory offbeat friends (including, yes, the gay neighbor who enters
her place without knocking). And just when it seems impossible for
screenwriter Anya Kochoff to stack the clichés any higher, Charlie has
not one, not two, but three Meet Cutes with hunky doctor Kevin Fields
(Michael Vartan).True love blooms, Kevin proposes, Charlie accepts.

Enter Fonda as Kevin's mother Viola, a TV interviewer (think Barbara
Walters on steroids) with problems of her ownin her first two scenes,
she loses her job and has an on-camera meltdown while interviewing a
Britney Spears-ish pop star. Presumably, this is to make Viola a tad
sympathetic, a mother who has nothing going for her except her son,
which makes her all the more neurotic at the prospect of "losing" him.

But even by comedy standards, it takes a huge suspension of disbelief
to think Viola's career is overif Geraldo Rivera can work at network
after network after all his gaffes, is there any doubt Viola would have
a raft of job offers heading her way? And if Viola simply can't handle
her son sharing his life with another woman, why does she keep trying
to set him up with a catty former flame? (Lest the uber-Waspish Viola's
campaign against Charlie be interpreted as racism, the filmmakers have
cast Wanda Sykes as her assistant/confidante.)

The movie clunks and thumps from one comic set piece to the next,
punctuated by a ham-handed score by David Newman which underscores
every punchline and hijink with cues more suitable for a Bugs Bunny
cartoon. Vartan does what little he can with the film's most thankless
role, but Kochoff's script makes Kevin little more than a MacGuffin
with abs, a device to get the plot rolling and nothing else. By the end
of the film, Kevin seems so utterly clueless, it's a wonder either of
the women in his life want anything to do with him. Sykes fares a bit
betterunlike Vartan, her character at least has an inkling of what's
going on.

The leading ladies certainly seem like good sportsFonda plops her face
into a plate of tripe, Lopez makes a joke about her much-discussed
derriereand every so often, they display enough star power to make us
believe they're playing characters and not caricatures. The rest of the
time, however, the actresses seem content to go through the motions and
cash their checks. The starsand their fansdeserve better than this.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of Jane Fonda's acting, I was mildly interested in seeing this
movie, her first in many years. I wish now that I hadn't wasted my
time.

Granted, Jane Fonda is an asset to "Monster-in-Law." She brims with
radiance and plays the Viola role with tremendous flair (although the
psychosis of her character sometimes seems forced and exaggerated). My
favorite scene, actually, is when she flies off the handle and tries to
strangle a young singer whom she is interviewing on her talk show.
There are a few moments where she effectively conveys the insecurity
and desperation beneath Viola's nasty exterior. Nonetheless, even a
brilliant actress cannot save a movie with such a weak script.

Take, for instance, the first few scenes, when Charlie and Kevin meet
(in a most whimsical fashion, may I add). This introduction seems too
drawn-out and ultimately worthless to the plot. I found myself mentally
tuning out for the sake of my sanity.

Speaking of the two lovers, I'd be hard-pressed to name a more boring
on-screen couple. J-Lo, as has been mentioned frequently on this site,
comes across as too sweet and innocent and perfect throughout most of
the movie. Simply put, she's annoying. I kept wishing they could have
cast a more watchable actress. The Kevin character, also, has zero
substance and is bland. He is like a prop that they casually drag into
the movie whenever they need some filler between Charlie/Viola
catfights.

Wanda Sykes, as Viola's assistant, is fairly comical and works much
better with Jane Fonda than J-Lo does. Viola's mother-in-law also
delivers her lines in an entertainingly caustic way. However, these two
women do not have much screen time at all.

"Monster-in-Law" progresses as a string of loosely connected arguments.
The result is tedious and mundane. There is no climax, really. If
you've seen one spat between Charlie and Viola, you've seen them all.
They spew petty insults...they seek revenge on each other...they go on
to the next scene and repeat it all over again. It might be juicy if it
weren't so repetitive, and if a different actress were squaring off
against Jane Fonda, and if the dialogue weren't quite so stale.

The ending is literally an embarrassment. Oh, I won't give it
away...except to say that I felt as if I were watching the end of a
"Full House" episode. Yes folks, the music and lines are THAT corny and
predictable. By the way, this is not a central plot point by any means,
but Charlie's bridal gown is not particularly flattering. More like
flattening. It makes her look as if she has no chest at all! 

Anyhow, I would not recommend this fluffy, somewhat empty movie, which
hardly evoked a laugh or even a smile from me. If you still want to see
it, go ahead, but definitely don't expect too much. I saw this movie
just a couple of hours ago and have already forgotten about most of it.
Not that I'm complaining.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about the tug of war between a mother who cannot bear
losing her son through marriage, and the daughter in law who does not
give in to the mother's manipulative behaviour.

The pacing is quite fast for a romantic comedy, as it squeezes in a
romantic comedy in the first half and hour and then the tug of war in
the last hour. The psychological games they play are clever and fun.
Though there is clear rivalry between Charlie and Viola, it is still
conveyed in a light hearted and fun way without hatred or malice. It
brings out a great message that differences can eventually be solved
through honest communication. I find this film fun and delightful.
<|_=00=_|>
What a surprisingly funny movie! I took my mother to the sneak preview
of Monster-in-Law on Mother's Day and we had a great time. At first, I
thought this film would be average and predictable. But Jane Fonda's
performance changed my mind. I'm glad that she decided to make a
comeback after 15 years. She did such a good job! I wouldn't be
surprised if Ms. Fonda was nominated for at least a Golden Globe for
her outstanding comedic performance. It was high time Jane Fonda
returned to the big screen. Welcome back, Jane! Wanda Sykes was
hysterical. Her one-liners were priceless! And Jennifer Lopez was
actually really good too, as was Michael Vartan. I highly recommend
seeing this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Lopez cant act!Jennifer Lopez cant act!Jennifer Lopez cant
act!... at least she cant act on comedy films, she is horrible in this
one. I cant tell on previous films because I don't remember, all her
films (as this one) are forgettable. The only reason I watched this
film is because I know a real life similar case, and that is what made
me give this film a 5/10 and not a 3/10, it was fun after all...did I
mentioned J Lo's acting was horrible?? The film is saved by Ruby's
character, but at the end the film abuses of her "funny lines" and
becomes repetitive, Fonda's acting is descent too, with some nice/funny
moments.

Overall: cheap humor, veeeery cheap drama/romantic moments, some
horrible acting, some horrible script lines......you know the rest.
<|_=00=_|>
Monster-in-Law (2005): Dir: Robert Luketic / Cast: Jennifer Lopez, Jane
Fonda, Michael Vartan, Wanda Sykes, Adam Scott: Emphasis seems to
regard expectations. Jane Fonda returns to the screen after a fifteen
year absence and plays a successful talk show host who is replaced by a
younger woman. This has a bad affect on her sanity until her son
arrives home with his girlfriend and announces their engagement. From
there Fonda tries to sabotage the relationship until his fiancé
retaliates. Typical setup follows formula faithfully until arriving
exactly where we expect it too. Directed by Robert Luketic who
previously made the underrated Win a Date With Tad Hamilton as well as
the overrated Legally Blonde. Fonda is a welcome sight as she aids her
frustration with alcohol, and Lopez plays a worthy target for her rage
but they are reduced to a back and forth battle where one struggles to
out scheme the other. Supporting roles unfortunately do not measure up.
Michael Vartan as Fonda's son is flat. He is basically a prop that
shakes his finger in their faces in the conclusion then telling them to
kiss and make up. Wanda Sykes as Fonda's adviser has the best lines but
the role is flat and uninteresting. Theme addresses close ties of
parents and the inability to accept change within relationships in fear
of losing touch. To bad someone didn't lose the script. Score: 6 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously. I have seen some bad comedies in my life, but this one
plumbs new depths. The script is cliché hell. Jane Fonda, never really
my favourite actress but still worthy of much better than this
frightfully hackneyed material, hams it up to a ridiculous degree as
she tries to drive a wooden Jennifer Lopez out of her wimpish son's
life. Nothing very much happens for a long time, so you feel a bit
bored and restless, alas I was not the only one watching, so I couldn't
just reach for another DVD. Son, Michael Vartan, has all the
personality of a cardboard cut out. In reality Charlie would never have
fallen for this guy no matter how cute he seems. He simply functions as
a foil for the two female characters to circle round. And circle they
do, endlessly. There is a tipping point. The son keeps falling for the
most obviously manipulative behaviour, and that would be the point at
which any sane girl would cut her losses. Absolute nonsense.
<|_=00=_|>
I like movies which at the same time are funny and truthful and I have
to admit that I watch rarely those types. "Moster-in-law" took all of
my attention and I didn't remember of blinking my eyes while I was
watching it. Jennifer and Michael played excellent, Fonda played in a
crazy woman's role, but she did look excellent, so it made the picture
even more watchable. The story is very interesting and this thing often
happen in real life. Also the most funny personage - Ruby played by
Wanda Sykes - perfect - very funny comments, nice looking woman and
smart! I gave 10 votes for this very interesting comedy. Watch it
please.
