
After being cast as Bond, Daniel Craig's back catalogue is now much
sought after. Although Craig came to most of the UK's attention with a
stand out performance in Our Friends in the North, it's Layer Cake that
showcases why he got the Bond audition. Perhaps now, this strong
contender for the best thriller of the year may find the audience it
deserves. Mis-sold as a more art house friendly addition to the Guy
Ritchie school of crime films, Layer Cake is a unique and remarkable
experience. 

The plot is deceivingly simple and would wrongly be placed in the
gangster-wanting-to-retire-peacefully cinema staple seen frequently in
Al Pacino movies. It is a much greater accomplishment that the
audacious visual style, superb script and excellent performances make
easy comparisons to this film pretty difficult. If anything it is
closer to Schrader's 'American Gigalo' where the morally questionable
hero is engulfed in a situation going on around him. The predominantly
male cast is faultless with everyone from Dexter Fletcher to Michael
Gambon putting in superb turns to give the characters justice. Far more
human than the cartoon stereotypes we've come to expect after so very
many Brit gangster flicks. Craig has never looked in better shape for
taking on Hollywood. 

Hats off then to Matthew Vaugn for filming Britain as it can look.
Grimy in places but every bit astonishing in locations as our Stateside
cousins. We've grown too used to seeing rain pouring and hackneyed
clich√©s that have represented this country on celluloid. It's not
foppish. It's not Bend It Like Beckham. So there really is no excuse
left not to see it (aside from the awful trailer). Layer Cake deserves
a wide audience and there's more than enough of everything for everyone
to enjoy. At times hilarious, astonishingly frank and incredibly
concise the whole film is a pure joy and clearly made for people that
love film. Makes you wonder why they can't all be as classy as this.
<|_=00=_|>
Seven years ago, I sat in a movie theatre with little to no
expectations for the viewing of Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, a
British crime/comedy/drama from producer Michael Vaughn. I had never
heard of the director (the future Mr. Madonna, Guy Ritchie) and there
wasn't a single cast member that I could say I had seen before.

A few years later, Vaughn was back producing another Guy Ritchie film
that put American actors Brad Pitt, Benicio Del Toro and Dennis Farnia
amongst all the chaos in the British underground in Snatch.

Despite the low fanfare (they have since become cult hits), both movies
were refreshingly fun flicks that ended up on my top ten lists in their
respective years of release.

Now, five years since Snatch made a splash on North American soil,
producer Michael Vaughn is back, this time behind the lens, for the new
crime thriller, Layer Cake.

Layer Cake follows a cocaine dealer without a name played by Daniel
Craig who is working towards his retirement from the underground biz.
He doesn't see himself as a bad man. In fact, his voice over reveals
that he is not a gangster. He's a business man. However, if Carlito's
Way taught us anything it is that escape from a lifetime in the seedy
crime world is not easy to dissolve oneself of.

And things start to go amok immediately when crime boss Jimmy Price
(Kenneth Cranham) forcefully delegates the task of finding the lost
daughter of an old powerful friend to our protagonist. Reluctantly, but
without option, the job is accepted and this begins the wicked spiral
deeper into the drug and criminal underworld than he had ever hoped to
venture.

Soon, there will be a drug trade gone bad, an introduction to a
character named Dragon who lops off the heads of his victims, friends
who will both have a drink with you and kick the living life out of
your body in the same afternoon and enough crosses, double crosses and
screw-you's to keep you riveted to the screen.

Much like Lock, Stock and Snatch, there are enough characters in Layer
Cake to keep your head spinning. Vaughn doesn't try and spell things
out for the audience and throws the kitchen sink at our small brains
leaving it up the viewer to try and keep pace. Probably requiring a
repeat viewing (if for no other reason that to try and understand what
is being said under the cover of some very strong English accents),
Layer Cake veers from the traditional cookie cutter type drug/crime
caper by delivering a complex mix of violence and drama that is
anything but packaged with a bow on top.

By the time we are introduced to yet another group of players, headed
brilliantly by the always-reliable Michael Gambon, you may need a
second to collect your senses and figure out which end is up. It was
like watching Memento except with more lively characters and a story
that's actually worth your involvement.

I was surprised to learn that this was Michael Vaughn's directorial
debut. As a novice he was able to weave a complex web of multiple
stories like a seasoned veteran in what I can only suspect to be a more
realistic depiction of hit men and drug lords than anything Bad Boys
waved in our faces a few years back.

Lacking the dark humor of Lock, Stock and Snatch, Layer Cake is more
like Goodfellas and to some extent Reservoir Dogs than its two closest
relatives (an ass kicking scene to Duran Duran's Ordinary World was
reminiscent of Dogs' Stuck in the Middle With You). It's a film
composed with characters that are so unique and interesting, yet
violent and criminal that you don't know who to root for. Case in
point, Gene played by Star Trek veteran Colm Meany. As Jimmy Price's
right hand man, Gene is a gangster that wouldn't hesitate to put a
bullet in your brain if so ordered, but portrayed as a human being who
is just doing what he is told to survive in a world to which he is too
accustomed. He is maybe the most charismatic bad guy since Vincent Vega
in Pulp Fiction.

Rumor in selected Trades is that Daniel Craig is the frontrunner for
the Bond franchise if Pierce Brosnan decides to jump ship, and his
performance in Layer Cake proves that he is up to the task. His steely
blue eyes and Steve McQueen type looks can ensure that we haven't seen
the last of him, and if we are lucky, in his next film his character
will get a name.

Layer Cake is definitely not for all types. If you have problems
following CSI, then this movie is not for you. But for those of you who
do stick around through the reveals and character developments, I can
assure you that the payoff is worth the investment. Layer Cake will be
one of those films that in a few years, men will be talking about
around the work water-cooler, using words like 'ultra-cool' and maybe
even 'classic'.

www.gregsrants.com
<|_=00=_|>

The trailers to Layer Cake left me with mixed feelings. Usually when a
trailer needs to draw reference to 'one's we made earlier' (in this
case Lock, Stock, and Snatch) when the writer or director of said films
has nothing to do with the project, the end result is a poor copycat.
After watching the film, I am more than impressed!

Layer Cake introduces us (once more) to the world of the cockney
gangsters, and the dealing of drugs. The medication of choice this time
is Ecstacy, and the set up involves an up-and-coming name in the
dealing trade being thrown a job by one of the big names. Sent to find
a missing girl, and also buy and sell on a large shipment, it all seems
like easy work. However, as he soon finds, things are not always as
they seem, and before long his life is at risk when the deal begins to
go sour.

For the first 20 minutes of the film I couldn't decide whether it was
going to be a Lock, Stock, or Honest (the dreadful All Saints film).
The film uses the obligatory 'catchy' tunes from the past 2 decades,
and uses the same type of framing of scenes as the genre. For the first
20 minutes, whilst we were introduced rapidly to the characters in the
tale, it was hard to discern where the plot was going, and even harder
to care much about the players. By the half way point I was engrossed!
The plot twists and turns at various points throughout, and you do
begin to care about the lead character and the associates around him.

The film oozes cockney cool, and although not quite on par with the
best of the genre, it is still a worthy, and very engrossing, offering
from director Matthew Vaughn. Stylishly shot, with a great soundtrack,
this is one of those films that blokes will walk out of very pleased,
but their partners may not feel the same way. Whilst not really violent
or sexist in nature, this is a lads film through and through, and it is
one cake that I want another slice of.

<|_=00=_|>

I went into Layer Cake with no expectations. Being honest, I found the
trailer tedious the second time I saw it. I didn't like the whole cake
idea, it was okay to a certain extent I guess. I did however enjoy Lock
Stock and Snatch. Layer Cake is a different kind of animal.

Whilst Lock Stock and Snatch were more comedy based, Layer Cake has
this more serious approach, no names flashing on the screen,
identifying any of the characters, so you have to pay extra special
attention!

There are several flashback/sub plots which don't particularly help as
they can confuse you if you're not paying attention. There were many
characters introduced to you in a short space of time and then suddenly
going off at a tangent involving some of the 'slightly minor lead'
characters.

You can see the influences of other directors in Matthew Vaughn's end
product. The direction style is good and the montage is solid.

Daniel Craig gives a good solid performance. His narrative does help
place him well in the movie. His narrative in the beginning is
definitely something that draws you in. The rest of the performances
are pretty good. Tamer Hassan has a minor role. After seeing the major
role he had in The Football Factory, he can act, he should have
possibly had a larger character. His character does not shine across as
that 'demented' as that in The Football Factory. Sienna Miller was
underused also, which was a shame.

Although there are some problems with the story, Matthew Vaughn has
made a respectable movie. This being his debut, he has nothing to be
ashamed of. As long as he works on the clarity of the plot more, he
will have no problems securing full audiences. Layer Cake gives a good
reputation to British films instead of the some rubbish released over
the last few years.

I enjoyed the ending, it was good, I'm not going to say anything about
it!

My rating 7/10

<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to seeing Matthew Vaughn's turn at
directing a film and what better genre to see him make his debut in
than the British gangster genre especially after his roles in the
fabulous 'Lock,Stock...' and 'Snatch' even though they were Guy
Ritchie's. 

Fans of those two movies may notice a few references in this one, most
notably two of the actors used and some of the dialogue sounded fairly
similar to a few lines out of 'Lock, Stock' but they didn't detract
from the films quality. For a while, I thought I was watching 'Snatch'
from a few years ago as the pace and the amount of characters that were
piling up in the film was at times overwhelming. This may be the
downside to many people's opinion of the film but I could cope. I
realized the main characters, 'got to know them', and focused very much
on them. Characters like 'The Duke' and 'Morty'; that way, I wasn't
totally confused at first sight.

The acting was good and there are moments which creep along silently
that will have you on the edge of your seat. This included the factory
in Amsterdam being robbed by 'The Duke' and his cronies as well as the
scene during which our main character: 'XXXX' is pinned down in a park
by a psychopathic Eastern European hit-man whilst on the phone to him.

The acting is faultless and flows all the way through. When there are
scenes which perhaps do go on longer than you'd like them to, the
acting and dialogue just manage to keep them going to the end. The
humour element is also there as I expected it would be. Most of the
time they're 'chuckle to yourself' moments but there are two or three
moments where you'll really find something funny and want to laugh out
loud.

Overall, it was great fun and a damn good film. I think it can just
about stand it's self up there with Ritchie's two acts of brilliance as
a result.

I think you can tell; I enjoyed my piece.........
<|_=00=_|>
"Layer Cake" the stylish neo noir film by Matthew Vaughn, making his
directorial debut, shows a man with enormous potential to do much
better in future projects. The film, based on J.J. Connelly's novel, is
a study about the drug business by some ruthless people that are making
a lot of money with their illegal commerce.

Point in case, the nameless hero of the story who figures he has played
the game right and now is about to make an exit from the business.
Little does he know that his friend Jimmy Price has other ideas for him
to execute, no doubt driven by a desire to get him in trouble, as
proves to be the case.

"Layer Cake" screams for a second viewing. In fact, it is probably a
requirement because it will make things clearer to the viewer who might
get lost in this story with so many twists and turns.

Daniel Craig is the best thing going in the movie. In fact, he kept
reminding us of a young Steve McQueen because of his cool demeanor and
how he seems to move effortlessly throughout the film. Kenneth Cranham,
as Jimmy Price, is also another actor whose contribution is an asset in
the film. Michael Gambon, leaner and tanner, is a cool drug lord who
rules a vast empire. Colm Meaney also is excellent, as well as the
extensive cast.

Look for the next film by Matthew Vaughn!
<|_=00=_|>
After an art house release everywhere else in the civilized world,
LAYER CAKE (LC) unexpectedly premiered in our area, the Lehigh Valley,
at the $4 theater in Easton (this joint started as a second-run
theater, but it's been getting some acclaimed imports and indies
lately, too. Somebody there is a good programmer!). This British
import, adapted by J.J. Connolly from his novel, is a taut crime drama
that moves with the sleek menace of a tiger. Imagine THE BIG SLEEP with
an ever-so-slightly more coherent plot and, as its protagonist, a
prosperous, wily drug dealer looking to retire after one last score
instead of tough but noble private eye Philip Marlowe. Our hero's
problem is that he's a careful, calculating businessman in a dicey
business where he's surrounded by loose cannons who shoot, stab, or
punch first and ask questions later. Director Matthew Vaughn has been
best known as Guy Ritchie's producer, but in his directorial debut
Vaughn is like Martin Scorsese to Ritchie's Barry Sonnenfeld (that's
meant as a compliment to all concerned, I assure you). It helps that
Vaughn gets excellent performances from Daniel Craig as our cool but
in-over-his-head unnamed antihero (usually films and books that refuse
to name their main character strike me as trying too hard to be clever,
but it works here), Michael Gambon nearly stealing the show as a
cultured but ruthless narcotics kingpin, Colm Meaney and THE
INTERPRETER's George Harris as our protagonist's partners in crime, and
many folks from Guy Ritchie's films. Sienna Miller doesn't get to do
much beyond being eye candy, but she's tasty eye candy indeed. I'm as
heterosexual a gal as they come, but after seeing lithe, leggy Miller
strip down to black lingerie and garters, I couldn't help thinking,
"That Jude Law is one lucky guy!" :-) One of the things I liked about
LC is that the protagonist, while thoughtful and competent, is never
quite as clever as he thinks he is; somehow everybody manages to be one
step ahead of him, if only because they're all so damned unpredictable.
Though I've only seen Daniel Craig in three of his many films (the
other two were THE ROAD TO PERDITION and THE JACKET), he's clearly one
of those actors who never looks or sounds the same from role to role,
so if he does indeed end up being Pierce Brosnan's successor as James
Bond as rumored, it'll be interesting to see how he fares playing the
same character in more than one film! :-) In any case, Craig certainly
lives up to the "new Steve McQueen" rep that LC has garnered him. I
look forward to seeing what he'll do next!
<|_=00=_|>

I was expecting good things and wasn't disappointed. It's been a while
since I saw a good British gangster film. Layer Cake filled the void
nicely. The acting was good, script was tight and the film was well
cast. People I had not seen before were well used in their characters.
The film starts out nice and simple but as it progreses it gets quite
deep and twisted.

I was most surprised by Colm Meaney, I've ever only known him in
Startrek.

But was superbly cast and had a quite menacing air about him.

LC has a few laughs for those with a more twisted sense of humour, it's
not obvious comedy either and the film never plays for laughs. Very
different to Lock Stock and Snatch. The director did well to move out
from Guy Ritchie and make a serious film.

<|_=00=_|>
I can IMPOSSIBLY outline the plot of Matthew Vaughn's Layer Cake, so
I'll just say it's about a nameless guy (Daniel Craig) doing some
criminal stuff in London.

In my observation there are three approaches to gangster characters in
crime films: 1) The overly-amateurish 'gangsters' that are scared sh*t
and mess up, like in Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, 2) The kind
of gangster who is an amateur, but picks up on criminal ways quickly
and effortlessly if the occasion calls for it, like Max the cab driver
from Collateral and 3) The stone-cold professionals who can do
whatever, whenever with whatever, like any mob-boss, contract killer,
etc.

What is so endlessly refreshing about Layer Cake (2004) is that it
applies none of these approaches to its main character Daniel Craig. He
is a drug-dealer, but reluctantly resorts to violent ways. He hates
guns. Murders and violence disturb him. He takes time to cope with
things. He shows fear and hesitation. He actually bleeds when he is
hit. In short, he is an extremely realistic person and this facilitates
the film's realistic atmosphere - there's no glossy visuals or
over-the-top violence.

Now, it is my opinion that Layer Cake could have perhaps used some of
the latter to spice things up. Its director is the producer of Snatch
and Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and it is clear here that he is
trying to move away from flashy Ritchie editing and effects as much as
possible, making his own film just a bit too barren in order to be
'different'. It works fine, but as a result, the gangster characters
aren't very funny or colourful - rather they are down-to-earth London
men trying to make a living. A shady living, true, but still a living.

A few bland characters and an extra-template romantic storyline
featuring Sienna Miller (I like her, but she is redundant in this film)
drag this film down, but overall it is a very solid crime thriller,
superbly acted by Daniel Craig. The score is great. In particular,
please note the great use of "Ordinary World" by Duran Duran. Layer
Cake isn't gloriously entertaining or anything but it feels very real
and engaging and it is interesting to see the acting abilities of
future Mr Bond - as well as his bare chest.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is a clever drug dealer movie set in the UK. It starts out with
the main character (XXXX) and narrator cheerfully extolling the virtues
of the drug industry when you are careful and organised like he is. He
is about to retire with a nice little fortune. Then it all starts to go
wrong, one thing after another as layers are added to the plot.

Sometimes it seems as if the plot is too complex and there are two
dangers, one of leaving the audience behind and two leaving gaping
holes in the plot. Still the humour and action set pieces are enough to
pull it through. It is not as good as Snatch or Lock, Stock etc but is
original enough to stand on its own right. Worth a look.

