

I have to admit that despite being a straight, 22 year old guy I have
always had a weakness for teen films so I was looking forward to
Lindsay Lohan's (who really impressed me in 'Freaky Friday' and the
much underrated 'Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen') latest.

It exceeded my expectations.

Lindsay is on great form, instantly likable as Cady and believable both
as a regular girl and a "regulation hottie". This girl is one of the
best comic actresses of her generation and has created a fully rounded
character it is difficult not to root for. Not that she carries the
film alone.

Of the adults Tim Meadows does sterling work in translating his
character with relatively few lines. Neil Flynn (familiar as the
Janitor from 'Scrubs') is even better with some great facial
expressions as a father as much at sea in suburban America as his
daughter. As for Tina Fey... a terrific performance of course and she
is still as cute as she was on Saturday Night Live but where she really
shines is in the screenplay which sounds real enough (at least for a
teen film) and has some razor sharp areas (like Coach Carr's
'lessons').

Of course the key group is the titular Mean Girls themselves - Regina
(Rachel McAdams), Gretchen (Lacey Chabert) and Karen (Amanda Seyfried).
Rachel McAdams creates a memorable High School tyrant, malicous, power
mad and cruel but not entirely virtue free. She'd screw you over in a
heartbeat if you stepped on her turf, but the nonthreatening Gretchen
is allowed some reward for loyalty. Gretchen herself, played by the
delectable Lacey Chabert is a character of her own, not just a
cardboard minion to follow orders. Neurotic, shallow, desperate,
beautiful, loyal and rather uncertain she is perhaps the saddest and
most sympathetic of the Plastics - a girl who certainly has the looks
and money to make it to the top of the pyramid but who lacked the will
or the certainty. Not a problem with Karen (Amanda Seyfried) who has an
admirable certainty of herself and her abilities. In one of the films
best lines after a telling off from Regina, Cady tries to comfort her:

Cady: You're not stupid, Karen. 

To which Karen replies thoughtfully (without a hint of bitterness or
anger):

Karen: No, I am, actually. I'm failing everything. 

Indeed she is. Karen is an airhead, and if not actively proud of it, at
least accepting. She doesn't seem cruel herself, possibly because she
is simply too shallow and dense, but she doesn't seem a bad person.
Which for the second minion (Gretchen outranks her) to the villainous
is quite a remarkable achievement.

Finally I must mention Lizzy Caplan and Daniel Franzese as Janice and
Damian respectively, the outsiders we are rooting for, in theory. They
do good work, though I found them slightly dry next to the endlessly
dysfunctional Plastics (though that may be something to do with me
finding Lacey Chabert much more attractive than Daniel Franzese!)

Overall a very good piece of work from all concerned. If you like teen
movies then you'll find this a very good one. If you don't, well hold
your nose and try it anyway, you might be pleasantly surprised!

<|_=00=_|>
Lindsay Lohan plays a teen girl trying to get along at a new high
school. This time, she plays a girl home schooled in Africa, whose
first experience at a public school is marred by a clique of nasty
girls called the Plastics, who use gossip and other torture techniques
to try to ruin her social life.

The story makes it sound like another generic teen film but this one is
actually quite funny and realistic. The most cynical person will point
out that this is a cheap rip off of Heathers and they are similar.
While Heathers is a good movie, mean Girls is an even better movie. I
think Mean Girls is very good for a number of reasons. First, the
script is actually creative and smart. Tina Fey seems to understand
that teens want comedies they can relate to and she did that with Mean
Girls. Of course, there were a few lame scenes but nothing that kills
the film. Tina Fey should leave SNL and focus on her career in movies.

Second, the acting is very good and convincing. Rachel McAdams offers
the best and funniest performance as Regina. Her character is very mean
(hence the title) yet I found it so hard to actually hate her. She has
this charm that sucks the audience in on her and its so hard to hate
her. Lindsay Lohan also gives a good performance as Cady. Her best
scenes are with Rachel. They have very good chemistry together. The
other plastics are played by Lacey Chabert and Amanda Seyfried. They
also give good performances and the scenes that have all the plastics
together are very entertaining. The rest of the supporting cast are
pretty good and Tina Fey also has a small role as Cady's math teacher.

Another reason why Mean Girls is so good is because it's actually funny
for people over the age of 21. It's not just for teens but also for
adults. Mark Waters is proving to be very good at directing harmless
comedies like Freaky Friday and this one. He keeps the film short yet
enormously entertaining. I really don't understand how someone could
actually give this movie a one. I understand some people finding it
over the top or stupid but it doesn't deserve a one. In the end, this
smart and funny teen movie deserves to be seen. Rating 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
The teen-movie genre returns with "Mean Girls," and it comes back with
a vengeance. What could have been a tired and clichéd retread of
"Heathers" is actually a clever and witty flick thanks to the talents
of screenwriter Tina Fey. Fey, head writer for "Saturday Night Live"
and co-anchor of their "Weekend Update," has an amazing flair for
satire, and what better way to showcase it than with a analytical
glimpse at the world of high school cliques? Lindsay Lohan is Cady, the
previously home-schooled daughter of two zoologists, growing up in the
African wilderness while Mom and Dad conduct their research. When the
'rents decide to settle down, Cady gets her first taste of public
schooling, which is almost as wild as the jungles and safaris she's
used to. Cady is introduced to the different factions that populate the
cafeteriaincluding the nympho band geeks, the nerdy Asians, the cool
Asians, the varsity jocks and of course, the Plastics, teen royalty led
by the manipulative Regina George (Rachel McAdams).

Cady is encouraged to infiltrate the Plastics by her new friends Janice
(Lizzy Caplan), a gothy and arty outcast who possesses a Janaene
Garafalo-style wit, and the flamboyantly out-and-proud Damian (Daniel
Franzese), who fears the Plastics but admires their fabulousness. Cady
agrees to the sabotage scheme, but it's not long before she succumbs to
the glamorous life of the Plastics and starts to engage in their
underhanded activities, such as writing in their "Burn Book," in which
nasty (and hilarious) things are jotted down about every girl in their
high school.

It all might sound like the typical teen fare, but the result is
nothing like that. The cast is surprisingly flawless, from Lohan (who
brings a depth to her role that Hilary Duff could only ever dream of
achieving) to the entire supporting cast, which is filled with current
"SNL" members and alums. Fey herself shows up along with Tim Meadows as
sardonic members of the high school faculty, while Ana Gasteyer and Amy
Poehler portray parents who just don't understand. Poehler steals every
scene she's in as Regina's "cool mom," desperately trying to fit in by
doing things like offering minors alcohol at her home, because she'd
rather have them drinking there than somewhere else.

The younger members of the cast don't let the veterans walk away with
the whole show though. Caplan and Franzese own their roles, Franzese
particularly when Damian displays his adulation for Christina Aguilera
during a holiday talent show. The other members of the Plastics shine
as well. Besides the deliciously vindictive McAdams as the Queen Bee,
the crew includes former "Party of Five" actress Lacey Chabert as the
gossipy Gretchen and Amanda Seyfried as the clueless Karen, who's not
above making out with her first cousin (because "there's cousins, and
then there's first cousins and second cousins").

Fey, with the help of director Mark Waters ("Freaky Friday," "The House
of Yes"), has infused the film with her trademark comedic brilliance.
The jokes and gags come at a break-neck pace, but the punch lines
aren't the only hilarious aspects. Little touches such as Gretchen's
dad being the inventor of Toaster Strudels and Regina's MTV obsessed
little sister are details that will inspire laughter long after the
movie is over. Even the particulars about the background characters
should provide endless chuckles (just try to think about Trang Pak, the
girl in wheelchair and her little person-sidekick, and the
Middle-Eastern, hip-hop-obsessed mathlete/"Bad-Ass MC" after the movie
without smiling).

If there's anything to complain about in this film, it's the overt
sexualization of teenage girls. Of course, the actresses are older than
they play, with the exception of Lohan (who, at 17 years old, brings an
R. Kelly-like meaning to "The Parent Trap"). Parents might see the
Disney-friendly actress in the trailers and bring their young children,
but this movie is not for those under high school age (girls are called
"sluts" and "whores" throughout). However, that doesn't mean anyone
who's older than the class of 2004 shouldn't check "Mean Girls" out.
Fey, Waters, and the entire cast have made sure the experience will be
enjoyable for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Though my own high school days are well behind me now, this film
received enough acclaim that I was convinced to give it a try. Mean
Girls did in fact prove to be a rewarding experience. The film made a
ton of money and launched some of its young stars into orbit.

Our story deals with a previously home-schooled girl (Lohan) now having
to brave a suburban high school for the first time. She is completely
clueless as far as what it takes to be cool in this new world, but she
is pretty enough to catch the attention of the most popular girls in
the school. The "Plastics" as they are called take the young lady into
their world and over time she becomes one of them. The more popular the
young lady becomes, the more miserable her life becomes, however.

The film is very funny and it hits pretty hard with its depictions of
the various cliques at modern high schools. Some would argue that the
characters in this film are just stereotypes, but so are most real life
high schoolers. Nearly everyone fit into one category or another even
back in my school days, but things seem even more fragmented now.

Tina Fey has written an intelligent script, and thankfully the film was
cast well enough to carry it. Lindsay Lohan is charming, but nothing
too exceptional. Rachel McAdams pretty much steals this film, and she
is likely the cast member who will have the best career of this bunch.
I think it's safe to say her scream toward the end of act 2 is the best
I've ever heard in any film.Lacey Chabert is also worth mentioning, and
she seems worthy of some better roles in the future. Overall, there did
not seem to be any casting problems.

Mark Watters keeps things moving along at a brisk pace, and it seems
strange to see Lorne Michaels' name in the credits of any film this
funny. From what I've heard, the film had to be trimmed of more than a
few parts that would have given it in an R-rating. BOO!!!!!! Hard to
argue with the box office totals, though! After watching this film, I
was reminded of a similar group of popular girls at my high school.
They called themselves the Senior Bitch Patrol, and behaved much the
same way as the "Plastics." Only back then (88-91) it was mostly about
the hair. The bigger the hair, the more popular the girl. All of these
girls have gone on to live boring and pointless lives since those days.
Go figure....

9 of 10 stars for Mean Girls. Too bad I never had any math teachers as
pretty as Tina Fey!
<|_=00=_|>

"Mean Girls" is a fun movie that can be enjoyed thoroughly by the adult
set as well as its seeming target audience, teens. The flick opens up
with Cady Heron (Lindsay Lohan) embarking on her first day of the
jungle that is high school ever as she has been home-schooled in Africa
her whole life. After some initial bumps in the road, she manages to
befriend two "artsy" misfits, Janis (Lizzy Caplan) and Damian (Daniel
Franzese). Surprisingly, however, she is also quickly welcomed into the
Plastics, a group of uber-popular girls who seem to be simultaneously
admired and resented by all. On Janis's urgings, Cady infiltrates the
Plastics, and her mission becomes personal when the Plastics leader,
Regina (Rachel McAdams), stabs Cady in the back.

"Mean Girls" is indeed an exaggerated version of reality, but its
depiction of the brutality and ridiculousness of high school and the
need to find and stay true to oneself within a social construct manage
to ring true. It does not stray away from or gloss over the dark humor
that high school inevitably draws out nor is it apologetic in its
over-the-topness. The result is a hilarious, well-written/performed
film that is unpredictable and worth seeing.

Lindsay Lohan shows us once again that not only is an actress with
range and a deft comedienne, she is also extremely likable and
charismatic. Other stand-out performances go to Caplan and Franzese as
well as Tina Fey (who plays a teacher), Amanda Seyfried (as one of the
Plastics, Karen), and McAdams. McAdams, probably best known as the
title character in "The Hot Chick", is an actress who continues
surprise me with her great comedic skills (don't believe me? Watch her
deleted scenes from "The Hot Chick" DVD. I liked them better than the
whole movie!!). 

All in all, this flick is great fun and more well-done than might be
initially expected!

<|_=00=_|>
Mean Girls isn't your average teen comedy, which you can tell are
written by adults who have no insight into the social politics that
revolve around teenage life, and who consequently divide everyone into
two groups - cool (jocks and cheerleaders) and uncool (goths and
science nerds). And it is this inherent understanding of teen life,
that writer Tina Fey has applied to the film which makes it stand out,
and such a pleasure to watch.

Cady Herron (played by Lindsay Lohan) is starting her first day of
school - and she's 16. She's been home-schooled all her life (in
Africa), and is totally unprepared for and untutored in the ways of an
American high school. She quickly befriends Janis Ian (Lizzy Caplan)
and Damian (Daniel Franzese), two of the biggest social outcasts in
school. However, after a chance encounter in the canteen with the
plastics (teen royalty), otherwise known as Regina George (Rachel
Macadams), Gretched Wieners (Lacey Chabert) and Karen Smith (Amanda
Seyfried), Cady's world begins to change dramatically as she is sucked
in by the rules and cliques of Girlworld.

The dialogue in the film is sharp and witty, not the OTT Dawson's Creek
or O.C. teen-speak. The teenagers actually look like teenagers, not
like 30 year olds playing teenagers. And what holds the film together
are the great performances from the actors. They're all perfect.
Lindsay Lohan is perfect as Cady, the clueless girl who gets a taste of
popularity and has to have more. Lizzy Caplan is a revelation as Janis,
a punk character who would be sidelined either as a freak, or as a
candidate for a makeover, in any other teen movie. But it is the
actresses who play the plastics who truly stand out. Lacey Chabert is
ideal as Gretchen, the insecure, 2nd-in command girl, who fakes her
friendship with Regina just to be considered popular. Amanda Seyfried,
as the ultimate dumb blonde Karen, has impeccable comic timing. And
rising Hollywood star Rachel Macadams, as Regina George, is the
stand-out in the film as the manipulative bitch who has to stay on top
at all costs.

Mean Girls isn't just a film for teen girls and gay guys. Most of my
(straight) male friends love it, and everyone I know who's seen it
recognises elements of the film and the characters from their own
secondary school experiences. Mean Girls is, as Gretchen would say (in
keeping with "British" slang, even though I'm English and the term just
doesn't exist!), that the film is just So Fetch.
<|_=00=_|>
Had I seen the film a year, a month, a week or even a day earlier, I
wouldn't have appreciated it as much as I did today when I was sitting
in a small university auditorium, relating what I saw to the issues
discussed by the professor prior to the projection, trying arduously to
control the flow of thoughts and emotions in my brain.

Mean Girls is what a large number of people would consider a silly teen
comedy. It tells the story of a previously home-schooled, brought up in
Africa, adolescent who enters a cliquish high school environment.
Essentially the film focuses our attention on a number of psychological
issues touched in almost every similar teen movie. In the beginning the
issue is adaptation to a new environment, and as the movie unfolds it
centers on social cliques, female friend relationships, social
prejudice, social influence, rivalry, or as the professor I heard put
it - relational aggression.

What is especially interesting about the movie, in my opinion, is that
it illustrates an unbelievably highly stratified societal group, and
thus helps the viewer unequivocally identify with and easily take a
stand on the issues discussed. Metaphorically it serves as a microscope
for us to observe social interactions with. Moreover the actions of the
protagonists are so blatantly right or wrong that they eliminate any
ambiguity that might arise of considering the things happening in
another environment or under other circumstances. That way the viewer
simply focuses on the darkest characteristics of female interactions in
society. In this sense the film is not about adolescent girls and their
experiences in high school but rather about the most negative features
of female friend relations in adolescence.

The very same genuineness of the film makes it so hilarious at many
points. What prevents us from laughing at the ridiculous social trends,
prejudices, and many people's beliefs, most possibly including ours, in
reality is that our actual emotions and thoughts rarely come up to the
surface. Even our actions in most situations are covert. Yet,
paradoxically, our way of thinking is shaped by society which
constitutes of other people who are also as secretive in this sense as
we are. And this covert way of feeling and thinking contributes greatly
to the growth of prejudice, misunderstanding, and ... meanness.

Revealing a prejudice I hold, I have always believed that the single
most important objective of a film is to provide food for thought. That
is why I think this teen comedy ranks among the best ones I have seen
recently.
<|_=00=_|>

Although this movie is no Heathers in its cruelness it still has comical wit
and crass jokes.  The movie basically takes a girl who has never been to
public school until she was 16, as she's been in Africa with her parents,
and throws her into to her Junior year of high school.  Now that in itself
is a decent plot that can either lead to a movie full of wisely placed
cracks or a horrible flop.  This film is much more the former. 

The cast of actresses does a decent enough job, and they do have enough
timing to deliver punchlines with an effective manner.  One of the best
parts however is Tim Meadows of Saturday Night Live, who is the principal of
the high school.  His dry style blends well into the movie to provide a
great relief from the cliche jokes that can inhabit a film like this. 

Another great aspect is the subtle political jokes thrown in this movie,
knocking how kids in our society are raised by MTV and it's idea of what is
cool.  The jabs aren't a main part of the movie but I found extremely
funny.

The movie has the trite ending as you would expect of a film like this,
however there is enough unexpected parts of the film that it doesn't really
subtract from the film as an enjoyable experience.  So even though the film
seems like it would be a pile of steaming dog mess, it isn't.  It's a well
blended strawberry margarita on a lazy Sunday afternoon at the beach. 
Definitely worth a watch.

<|_=00=_|>
This film is fun. You laugh, you get angry and you enjoy the show
(literally, there is one!) This film is sexy. Who doesn't like girls in
mini skirts? Well, OK a few do not for legitimate reasons, but most men
do. Sex and the human body is natural, primordial and eternal and this
film gives you eye candy sweetness.

This film is engaging. You are interested in the characters, the
actresses take on their personas well and the plot moves along quickly.
<|_=00=_|>
Rosalind Wiseman wrote the novel that Tina Fey adapted for the screen.
The result, "Mean Girls" is a statement about what it's like to be a
student going through high school today. In fact, it presents an ugly
side about how school, a place for lasting friendships, camaraderie,
and just a place for learning is everything but that, according to what
one witnesses. In fact, in order to navigate its cliques and groups,
one needs a route map in order not to offend anyone. "Mean Girls" is
directed by Mark Waters, who gives it a light touch.

At the center of the story we find Cady, a newly arrived girl who has
lived in Africa and has been taught by her parents. Since they are back
in the country, they enroll their daughter so she can have the
experience of mixing with her peers. Cady, who is a sweet and naive
girl unexposed to the real world, finds friendship with a pair of
unpopular students, Janis Ian and Damian.

Cady is guided through the ropes by her new friends who suggest to her
to penetrate the world of the "Plastic" trio who are the local
fashionistas in their school. These young women live to dress for
school; instead of studying, the trio has their own set of rules, which
totally confuses Cady, who adapts, but she has no feeling for her new
acquired friends.

Cady makes the mistake of liking one of the Plastics former boyfriend,
the hunky Aaron. When she confesses it to Gretchen, this one tells her
that is a no-no according to an unknown code of conduct because Aaron
is Regina's former boyfriend, and she is to stay away from him. Cady
excels in math, but she decides to play dumb in order to have Aaron
like her. That develops into more than friendship until Regina
intervenes.

"Mean Girls" will be loved by teen age girls, the audience for which
the film is targeted. Lindsay Lohan is immensely appealing as the newly
arrived Cady. Rachel McAdams and Lacey Chabert are Regina and Gretchen,
respectively. Tina Fey plays one of the teachers in the school who is
wrongly accused of being involved in drugs.

The film is fun to watch thanks to the young and talented cast in it.
