
Wow. The critics weren't wrong. Not since seven has horror been
portrayed so majestically. 

From the first minute to last this film twists and turns you till you
feel rather poorly. Just like 'Se7en', the all-round Grittiness that
director James Wan creates disgusts and enthralls. Just like 'Se7en',
there is a H U G E twist that makes your blood curdle. 

A lack of star names helps the movie flow as the pace builds to a
finale that won't be forgotten by this viewer in a hurry! 

I still can't sleep. 

It is well scripted, well acted, and, for everyone who guesses the
killer after the first few minutes, keeps you guessing right up to the
final reel. It is better than Seven for shock value. It is not over the
top gory but there is a final scene which makes you sweat. 

Very highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Movies like Saw are the ones that makes us believe in the horror genre.
It is because of such movies we like to see horror/thriller movies. Let
me tell you that after watching Saw I wanted to buy the ticket and
watch it again because after a long time I got to see a real gripping
and tightly directed horror movie. The movie is very exciting and has a
lot of goosebumps. However, if you are a faint of heart please do not
see this movie as it has a lot of gore/violence in it which will make
you jump out of your seat. I just can't wait for the DVD to come out as
I really want to buy it. My recommendation to all of you is to watch
Saw and have a good time like I did. Also, the movie has a great twist.
10/10
<|_=00=_|>
When two men, wake up and find themselves chained to a bathroom pipe,
with a dead body lying in between them, they soon realize that they are
prisoners, in the secure lair of a serial killer, nicknamed 'Jigsaw'.

This film was, in my opinion, exciting, thrilling, and an overall
entertaining film to watch. It delivered the necessary chills, to keep
its audiences fully awake, and engaged. This was an enormous
achievement for Aussie newcomers  James Wan, and Leigh Wannell. The
two have created a well-deserved horror/thriller, without the necessary
clichés.The film is not too scary that it becomes unwatchable, so the
full potential of its enormity will not be missed. definitely two
thumbs uo for me.
<|_=00=_|>
A sicko movie whose nastiness is almost topped by its weirdness...so
obviously any true horror fan worth their salt needs to seek it out!
The story is about a surgeon and a photographer who wake up and to find
themselves shackled at opposite ends of a nasty-looking toilet. Don't
want to say too much but plenty of ugliness ensues. This movie has the
perfect mix of scares and a really bizarre plot. The movie's got a
decent budget for an indie horror (a little over a million, i think)
but it's pretty small for a film that got such a big release. I hear it
made a "killing" at the box office, so TAKE NOTICE Hollywood! People
want to see this stuff. Go!
<|_=00=_|>
Since "Nattevagten" I have not seen a thriller that has kept me on the
edge of my seat as well as "Saw". Right from the beginning this
original story sucks you in and doesn't let you go until the very end.
Thrillers as gripping as this one have become extremely rare in times
like these, where people have seen almost everything and can guess any
twist during the first half of the movie. With "Saw" James Wan and
Leigh Whannell, the creative heads behind this project, set new
standards. Think you're hard-boiled? Think again and watch "Saw", a
movie that will creep you out and surprise you beyond your
expectations.

"Saw" has been advertised as the new "Se7en" and while both movies are
definitely in the same tradition, "Saw" does a much better job at
actually being creepy. Jigsaw is the most gruesome killer the cinema
has seen in a loooong time. Wan and Whannel really came up with a
monster that has no peer. Where many movies drift into ridiculousness
trying to establish the villain as an almost superhuman evil being,
"Saw" does never get anywhere near that trap. Sure, the cops are
depicted way too stupid and the killer is unrealistically smart,
outshining each and every opponent with his perfect plans, but hey,
"Se7en" and "Silence Of The Lambs" didn't care too much about realism,
either, did they?

"Saw" does have some flaws. Those sped-up tracking shots have just been
used too many times by now, the structure of the script is weird and
jumps from one period of time to another, some characters' lines are a
bit clichéd. However, considering that this movie was made in only 18
days by two independent filmmakers with literally no budget at all,
it's really inappropriate to be petty about technical subtleties, when
Wan and Whannel came up with such an original and stirring movie.

I can't remember the last time I've been surprised by a movie's final
twist, but "Saw" has an ending that I didn't see coming at all. This
thriller is the most original piece of independent film-making since
"Cube". I'm really looking forward to seeing how Wan and Whannell's
career develops after this fine sleeper.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally a horror/thriller movie that has a plot and scary bits! Most go
for the scare and have no plot, so when they aren't scary they suck!
This one is good from either plot side or scare side. This movie is
tops!! I've often thought about the awful things that killers could do
to people, but usually just shot/stab them - this movie does some of
those things! It really made me cringe in some parts and I could really
"feel" how terrified the characters probably were cause of the great
acting.

I just didn't see that ending coming, that just topped it all off. At
one point i figured it was just going to end in the same old "big fight
with lots of blood" scene but, WOW! that ending was the icing on the
cake! I'm spun out but the whole thing - definitely a DVD buy for me.
4/5
<|_=00=_|>
I have utmost respect for Wan. To my knowledge, he and his buddies were
right out of film school. Instead of slowly building status by making
mediocre films, he showed the world right from the get-go that he had
something to prove.

Along with Silence Of The Lambs, Saw is the only horror movie that
truly chills me. You see, I am not easily frightened by gratuitous
bloodshed and screams that you might see in films like The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre. The plot has to be coherent, and there can't be
anything ridiculous like a monster. Saw evokes strong emotions of
terror and fear, all the while remaining plausible. Well, the story is
actually unlikely, but everything in the film is physically possible.

The scenes that are meant to be frightening don't require things that
jump out at you every two seconds, or cheesy orchestral flailings. The
situation is what frightens you, not the presentation. Saw does have
some second-rate acting, but then again it is a low-budget film and I
suppose they couldn't exactly afford Robert De Niro. The script is not
fantastic, but one true redeeming quality of the whole film is the
story. It is dense, complex, but so captivating. I can only think of a
few mystery plot lines that can even compare to this one. The Usual
Suspects is probably up there, but Saw stands alone.

I strongly recommend this film who appreciate good stories, and aren't
easily scared by the garbage you see in theaters like House Of Wax. For
people who get squeamish, steer clear of this film. It is very nice
graphic, and very sadistic at times. A brilliant debut, and a
terrifying ride. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Saw" is one of the better horror films in recent memory. I suppose
it's more of a thriller than horror, although it still is gory and
serves well on a horrific level. It's sort of a cross between "Se7en"
and "The Silence of the Lambs" I'd say, and the film is pretty damn
good. 

"Saw" opens with two men who wake up in a dilapidated public restroom
with no memory of how or why they are where they are. Chained to the
floor, they are both utterly confused and terrified. Together, they
begin to piece together the memory of what happened to them as the
serial killer, nicknamed Jigsaw threatens them and plays numerous mind
games that lead up to their demise. Meanwhile, detectives and officials
are on the trail of the brutal serial murderer, trying to save the men
the entire time.

This is definitely a smart thriller and it will have you on the edge of
your seat from the very beginning to the bloody, limb-severing
conclusion. The characters are extremely believable and the acting was
great, including performances by Carey Elwes, Monica Potter, and Danny
Glover. Everyone performed perfectly and were very believable to watch.
The entire movie has a dark, damp setting, and is overloaded with
intense scenes and lots of gore, that are sure to please any horror
fan. On top of that, the cleverly-woven story is unique and underived.
James Wan does an excellent job, especially considering this to be his
first feature film. I can't wait to see some his future stuff.

Bottom line - "Saw" is a smart, grisly, unforgiving, all-around brutal
horror movie that is unique and original. If you are looking for a
horror movie a notch above your average slasher flick, I advise you see
"Saw". 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Not only does this movie create an extremely tense atmosphere the
moment it starts, it has plenty of gore and violence to bombard your
eyes, not to mention that it has one of the best twists seen in any
horror movie.

I watched this film alone at night with the lights off, expecting to be
freaked out by it since I thought it was just another typical horror
movie; but instead I was completely intrigued by the story line, and
utterly drawn into the film for the whole 100 minutes. At the end I did
not feel scared, rather, I felt something very few horror movies have
to offer: satisfaction! This movie left me in a slightly disturbed but
very thoughtful state. It did not give me nightmares, rather, it
plagued my day-dreams; for two days my thoughts could not stray far
from this film, that's how powerful it is.

If you want a cringingly gory and violent horror movie, watch "The
Texas Chainsaw Massacre" or "Hostel"; if you want a nightmarishly scary
horror movie, watch "The Grudge" or "The Ring"; if you want a clever
and disturbing horror movie with an excellent story and a great twist,
watch "Saw".
<|_=00=_|>
"Saw," a film that was originally planned for a straight-to-video
release but after receiving positive nods at test screenings, was
finally given the green light in October 2004 - just in time for
Halloween. "Saw" contains one of the those plots that shows you
everything it's got up its sleeve, then doubles-back on itself
three-fourths of the way through and reveals something entirely new.

It's not hard to see why this almost hit the straight-to-video fodder
list. I mean, people will closely observe that it obviously contains
the traits of its successors, namely "Seven" (1995), and that may be
all the ammunition the haters will need to trash it. Already, I see
that the IMDb voters have averaged "Saw" a 7.5, with those people who
have rated it with an "8" or a "10" being neck-and-neck at the polls.

But I begin with reassurances that "Saw" is a genius thriller, if not
entirely original or daring. The film does its best to exploit the
claustrophobia and mounting tension that collects as it progresses.
"Saw" will also make you think twice about bladed objects as well.

Ironically, the title has very little to do with plot, as there is no
chainsaw-wielding maniac on the loose as the ghastly cover art of a
severed foot would imply. The only saws here are the ones the two main
characters Lawrence (Cary Elwes) and Adam (Leigh Whannell, also the
film' screenwriter) have been given.

The two men awaken to find themselves chained to lead pipes in a
decrepit public bathroom. In the middle of the floor, is a dead body
that's surrounded in a pool of its own blood, with a gun in one hand
and a tape recorder in the other. As it would turn out, they're the
latest victims of a serial killer known as the "Jigsaw Killer."

Jigsaw has a nasty little way of torturing his victims by trapping them
in a situation where they have to kill if they want to survive. As
Lawrence explains, technically Jigsaw is not a killer, simply because
he hasn't killed anyone; the victims do that for him. As one fortunate
victim observes, who survived her ordeal, she is bound to a chair with
a reversed bear trap-like device strapped to her head with pliers wired
into her upper and lower jaws. A timer is on the device and if she does
not locate a key before it runs out, her mouth will be ripped open and
no more pretty face. In order to get out, she must open up the stomach
of a dead man lying on the floor next her to get the key.

As Jigsaw ever so carefully points out to his victims, he doesn't just
choose them at random. To him, they're all perfectly immoral
individuals and he uses their immorality to set up horrific situations
where the victim rarely survives the trap; in essence, life is its own
reward because Jigsaw's victims don't value it, as he explains to the
one young woman lucky enough to fight through his plan. Also on the
case of Jigsaw, are two detectives Tapp (Danny Glover) and Sing (Ken
Leung), who bring forth the news of Jigsaw's previous victims in one
particularly gruesome flashback sequence.

Lawrence is pretty well aware of the case of Jigsaw, as even once he
was considered a suspect by the police. As you would have it, Adam is
not especially trustful of Lawrence being that he seems to know a lot
and is not reporting many details to him. They realize, however, that
if they are going to survive this nightmare, they're going to have to
play into Jigsaw's game, observe the clues he's willing to give them,
and ultimately make it out alive.

"Saw" was directed admirably by James Wan and written by Whannell, who
also makes an effective victim alongside Elwes. Elwes, a highly
underrated actor, is given a chance to shine here, even though this
really isn't an actor's movie, as it is more in the hands of the
director. However, we do get a sense of the desperation of the two
leads, who soon realize that they're not the only ones trapped in this
madman's game.

"Saw" does benefit from its moody atmosphere, which may cover up any of
the film's shortcomings. Towards the end, it does lose pace a little
bit as things seem to be spiraling down the haunted house route, but
quickly regains momentum as it draws to a close. I know that despite
its flaws, I was glued to the seat and really "in" the film's tight
tension, which thankfully doesn't let up.

Is "Saw" a genre classic? Certainly. Is it a classic like "Seven"? I
don't know. There's a lot to consider when pondering a question with so
much baggage like that one. I liked it, but I'm not so sure about the
news that a sequel is in the works. This seems a lot like a
stand-alone-type movie, that of which doesn't need to get bogged down
by the weight of unnecessary sequels.

8/10
