
WOW! What a movie. I can honestly say this is in my top ten movies of
all time, how do Pixar continue to out do themselves at every movie
release?

The Incredibles is a fantastic story, wonderfully scripted and with the
most stunning animation you have ever seen, it provides a perfectly
rounded story with plenty of action, laughs and (almost) tears.

Basically, this is a story of a man encountering a mid life crisis and
leaping headlong into it without a care or a thought for his family,
proving exceedingly selfish and failing to see the good in his life.
Meanwhile the wife is left to try and look after the family. Really,
that's the story. Now, what Pixar have done is drop in the idea that
the parents are Superheroes, banned from being Super many years
previously by the Government and the people, trying to live a normal
life. Add to the mix that some of their children have inherited their
own powers and that the Super villains are planning a comeback, and you
have this wonderful movie.

I can't begin to convey how wonderful the animation is, it's perfect. I
mean you'll always be looking at it knowing it's animation, but when
the story takes you along you'll suddenly realize you're still watching
animation. The subtle difference is that you forget, and there are
parts (for instance when the father is cheering his son during the
race) that you actually think it is real. The effects for water, fire
(two of the hardest things to recreate in animation) and lava are
wonderful to watch and caught me drawing a breath when I first saw
them.

The characters and acting are wonderful, and you will find yourself
caring about them as real people. At some points I could feel a big
swallow coming up and a wavering adams apple, obviously due to the food
earlier, nothing to do with the movie.

I often find that movies aren't paced well, that they either have too
long or too short an introduction to the characters, or the events that
lead up to the pivotal point of the movie are unbalanced against the
climax, all sorts of combinations. Not here, this move is perfect and
well balanced, the story takes you along just when you are ready, and
there were no points where I wished we could move on, or something
could happen quicker. My only frustration were at the kids, and this
was only because they were behaving exactly as real kids would.

It was interesting to see the comparisons and links to other famous
Superheroes through comic-lore. Definitely with nods to The Fantastic
Four, Silver Surfer and huge nods to The Watchmen. My only concern is
that there is so much similarity to The Watchmen that those who haven't
read the graphic novel will be saying "That's the Incredibles movie"
when Watchmen finally comes to fruition.

The short film showing before this was wonderful in itself, and had the
audience laughing out loud loads. Excellent, and once again, outdoes
every short that they've produced before. Boundin' was beautifully
animated and wonderfully told. Guaranteed to bring a huge big smile to
your face.

All in all I think this movie is perfect and truly incredible.
<|_=00=_|>
I hope that this movie does really well because this has to be one of
the best animated movies I have ever seen. The story is really cool and
it's obvious that there is a lot of respect here for the source of
superheroes, whether it be comic books, serial flicks or Saturday
morning cartoons.

The movie has an undeniably cool retro feel to it and it shows not only
in the design of the picture but also in the music, which definitely
sounds like something out of a 60's 007 flick. It is also unusually
dark, especially for a Pixar flick. I'm not saying it's dark where
people are getting their heads delivered to someone in a box or family
members are sleeping with each other or anything like that but there
were moments where I found myself wondering if a little kid might be
able to deal with the intensity of what was going on on screen. Maybe
it was the fact that the heroes were in very real danger most of the
time. The bad guys weren't out to catch them as much as they were out
to kill them. When you discover who the film's villain is, you can
literally feel his anger coming off the screen. I may be
over-exaggerating a bit but then again, it really is to the film's
credit that it deals with human emotions in the way that it does.

Even though you are watching a film that is populated by CGI
characters, the emotions they convey in what they say and do come
across as purely believable. Whether watching Bob Parr interact with
people at his job or just sitting at his desk was something that rang
true to me, just in the feeling of it. Everything about this movie has
a very concrete feel to it, even while looking like something you'd see
in a comic book. The computer graphics in general were absolutely
amazing and the voice acting is excellent across the board, so good in
fact, that I really can't pick a favorite from the entire cast. I have
to say that Craig T. Nelson and Holly Hunter were very good as Mr.
Incredible and Elastigirl respectively. They had a moment near the end
of the film that actually touched me but you can see that for
yourselves. Samuel L. Jackson was hilarious and thankfully, he wasn't
overused. Dash and Violet were realized so well that every time they
came up on screen, I loved every minute of it. Dash, in particular was
one of the funniest characters in the movie. Jason Lee made for a
formidable villain as Syndrome. I loved the fact that he was your
typical antagonist but was also aware of the conventions surrounding
such a role, like when he chides himself for 'monologuing'. He was also
one ruthless bastard, I'll give him that. Even the bit part characters
were hilarious. There was a kid on a tricycle in this movie who comes
out twice and made me laugh out loud both times. 

In fact, this movie reminds me of why I like Finding Nemo over
Monsters, Inc. In Finding Nemo, not only are the main characters great
but every other character they run into makes some kind of impression
on you. Remember all the characters that Marlin and Dory ran into on
their adventures together? Of course you do. Whether it was that crazy
pelican with the Australian accent, Willem Dafoe as Gill, leader of the
fishtank crew, or Bruce the Shark, you remember them after all is said
and done and it makes the viewing experience that much richer. That's
exactly how The Incredibles is. Every character that appears will make
you laugh or intrigue you in some way. I have to admit that I was
laughing myself throughout the entire movie, especially with the
character of Edna Mode who almost steals the movie. Man, even the end
credits are awesome! I have to give the director Brad Bird a big thumbs
up for this one. He pulled it off and hopefully this will attract
attention to his other animated film, "The Iron Giant", which was sadly
overlooked when it was released and is also a really great film.

All in all, I can't recommend this movie enough. I left very satisfied
and felt no need to compare this to the rest of Pixar's movies. This
one is just as good if not better than any other animated movie
released this year and rightfully deserves its place among the best
animated movies of all time.

RATING: ***** out of *****.
<|_=00=_|>
Shortly after Dreamworks screwed up with the uninspired "Shark Tale",
Pixar contains its remarkably success story with "The Incredibles". And
while I have to say that I liked "Finding Nemo" a bit better, "The
Incredibles" is still an amazing movie.

First of all, this is because it's funny. It's not so funny that you're
constantly laughing out loud, but there are more than enough good jokes
in the movie to keep you entertained, and it's full of good
observations about superhero movies (note all the ridiculous superhero
and villain names) and references to other movies. It's also a
brilliant James Bond spoof/homage, containing all the gadgets, secret
island bases and crazy schemes that made early Bond movies so much fun.

Secondly, this movie has heart and charm in droves. It's full of
memorably and likable characters you can really identify with and care
about. Characters like Edna are instant classics. The voice acting is
universally excellent, but Holly Hunter steals the show as Elastigirl.
This is a movie that doesn't need toilet humor, characters modeled like
celebrities, or a "hip" soundtrack...it easily succeeds on charm and
style alone.

Also, I found it to be a surprisingly good action movie. The plentiful
action sequences are full of energy, extremely fast-paced, and
exciting, and put many a live-action movie to shame.

Finally, I also liked the tone and message of the movie. "The
Incredibles" basically makes a plea against mediocrity, breaking with
the politically correct idea that "everybody is special" (and thus
nobody really is), and encouraging people to use the talents they have
been given. I think this couldn't be more true. Not all people are
equally talented (just compare Pixar to Dreamworks), but this is no
reason to keep the talented people from not reaching their full
potential just because it makes the less talented ones feel bad.

"The Incredibles", while maybe not as hilarious as I had hoped (though
it's still very funny), is nonetheless an extremely entertaining movie,
that manages to charm you wit its combination of great characters, lots
of style, tongue-in-cheek attitude and good message. Highly
recommended.

****1/2 of ***** stars
<|_=00=_|>
Writer-director Brad Bird here has something that I was caught
off-guard by just a bit. I always expect Pixar films to be above-par,
family entertainment, the kinds of films that can have an appeal to
adults on a satirical, jab-in-the-side effect by having the characters
reacting to each other as they would on a film with a higher rating,
whilst giving the bright colors, action, and silliness that appeals to
kids. Watching The Incredibles, their sixth feature-length offering, I
wasn't so entertained and amused since their 98 film A Bug's Life, and
it almost brought me back to the emotional impact I felt when in the
theater for the first time getting Toy Story into my system. 

It's a film that takes on a type in society that we all know well (in
the past they've done toys, bugs, monsters, undersea life, and now
comic book archetypes) and transforms it superbly to the imaginative
computer-animated landscape. This is also in credit due to Brad Bird,
who proved five years ago with his sleeper The Iron Giant that he could
transcend the genre and appeal with heart and vigor for almost every
age bracket.

So what little touches make The Incredibles so appealing? How it starts
to deconstruct the idea of a superhero, perhaps, as well as how the
family unit is shown in the usual conventions under unusual and funny
circumstances. As an example, one of our heroes Mr. Incredible, a.k.a.
Bob Parr (voiced wonderfully by Craig T. Nelson), goes to visit a woman
who fixes and creates the uniforms of superheroes. In one scene she
explains why a cape is not a good idea. This is the kind of scene that
might not make it into most Hollywood movies, and would sometimes if
not often be discredited as being too 'smart' for kids to get. But by
appealing to a kind of level late teens and adults can relate to, it
reaches a higher, far more intelligent plane. In fact, many of the best
scenes in the film take on what we all know in films displaying the
'family unit' and morph it with the power and imagination of
superheroes.

I won't go too much into the plot as some may already have, except to
say that what makes the story in and of itself appealing is how it is a
fully formed story, and doesn't try and sell itself short like other
animated films (i.e. Sharktale for example). It also uses it's
PG-rating perimeter wisely, and Bird and company create action
sequences that are as exciting, if not more so, than in the action
films that have been released this year (in fact, some of the scenes in
the climax, for my money, could rival a couple of those in Spider-Man
2). By setting up the right emotional bases with the characters- Bob,
his wife Elasti-girl (Holly Hunter), their kids, and with supporting
characters voiced finitely by the likes of Samuel L. Jackson and Jason
Lee, by the time the high-charged, internally fantasy scenes take off,
they take off with great conviction and excitement.

Overall, The Incredibles is a film that is, in a way, what audiences
wish they could get and rarely do- it's a film with wit and observance,
a kind of video-game where the results are not as expectable as can be.
Some kids may not get it as much as adults might, which is just as
well, as it sometimes operates on a level like Antz did, only through
the sphere of Disney. In other words, if you say the teaser trailer,
which involved the out-of-shape Mr. Incredible trying with all his
might to buckle his tights, you'll know what the film could bring.
Personally, I can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
The Incredibles is a great film, and probably my favourite Pixar
picture (Toy Story is the best, but that's different to favourite). It
takes a while to properly get into the action, but when it does, it
delivers it in spades.

And that's exactly it. I would actually call The Incredibles an
animated action film, because to be honest, I don't think there was
enough comedy to call it an animated action comedy film. There are
quite a few funny moments, but the gags don't come as fast as Finding
Nemo or Toy Story.

That being said, it does have truly amazing action set-pieces,
brilliant voice acting, a fabulous script, wonderful characters and the
animation is simply.....well....incredible.

The music is definitely a stand-out. It actually made me smile, with
it's jazzy tones and James Bond type scores.

One of the greatest things about The Incredibles is that it's not a
kiddies film; it's completely different to all the other Pixar films.
They bring out tommy guns in the second scene, for crying out loud! If
you want to see a more adult animated film, then go see The
Incredibles, and enjoy every minute. But I wouldn't bring someone
younger than 4 maybe, because it isn't really aimed at them, and they
probably would find it quite scary.

This is a great film, one of the best of 2004 in my opinion. If it just
had a slightly higher gag rate, than this would be an absolutely
perfect picture.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film completely, utterly flabbergasted me with its brilliance.
I've been a big fan of Pixar (along with a few hundred-million others),
and I was aware that 'Incredibles' was going to be a departure from
their usual fare, but WOW - this simply blew all expectations of what a
3D animated movie can be beyond the stratosphere, in my humble
estimation. There simply can be no going back from this! I honestly
think most people cannot comprehend just how special this film is. I
cannot understand how anybody could see this movie and be anything less
than astonished, much less be negatively critical of it. 'Incredibles'
literally has it all, and in my opinion is virtually flawless - damn
it, it IS flawless! How does one really define greatness in cinema?
Quality of direction, scriptwriting, performance, production design,
editing, photography, scoring - on all counts 'Incredibles' triumphs,
with deceptively effortless ease. I say deceptively because nothing
this relentlessly magical is achieved without unfaltering attention to
detail and supreme craftsmanship. Brad Bird simply has to be
acknowledged as a visionary and creative genius. I come from a graphic
arts and visual design background and throughout the entire two hours
of this movie I found myself quite literally unable to believe what I
was seeing. It is all so breathtakingly realised. It is aesthetically
beautiful and completely fearless in its execution. This is so much
more than an animated movie. It is so much more than a comedy-drama. It
is so much more than an adventure film. It is so much more than a comic
book exploding into incandescent life before our very eyes.
'Incredibles' is nothing less than a milestone in cinema, and a totally
transcendent experience. This IS what all movies should aspire to be!
<|_=00=_|>
I finally saw Pixar/Disney's "The Incredibles" after several scheduling
glitches. Writer and Director Brad Bird's "The Incredibles" is truly
incredible. It is one of the best movies of the year. The CGI animation
is both cutting edge and simply stunning, and like all Pixar projects
it has a solid story as it's foundation. Bird uses the Superhero
mythology to tell a funny and poignant story: that when we forfeit or
withhold our greatness, we are not being true to ourselves, and more
importantly it is a disservice to those around us. As the story begins,
Mr. Incredible (Craig T. Nelson) was the superhero's Superhero. As
voiced by Nelson, Mr. Incredible, is very confident, on the verge of
cocky. He uses his super strength and powers for good. He marries
super, Elasticgirl (Holly Hunter). However, Mr. Incredible soon falls
victim like his fellow "Supers" to the plight of our litigious
society-- the people they save are suing them. Instead of getting
malpractice insurance (which would have been a different movie), the
persecuted... and prosecuted Supers assume their secret identities in a
covert government relocation program. They also promise never to use
their powers again even for good.

We catch up 15 years later with Mr. Incredible, now just Bob Parr,
insurance claim adjuster. He is suffering. His wife Helen, the former
Elasticgirl, is busy getting settled in their new home with their kids,
Violet (Sarah Vowell), Dash (Spencer Fox), and little Jack Jack. Violet
and Dash have super powers, and Jack Jack is not yet toilet trained.
Bob is totally frustrated by his job, and really the lie he is forced
to live. Every week he and fellow Super, Lucius Best aka Frozone
(Samuel L. Jackson), on their "bowling" night, listen to the police
radio band so that they can save people in danger. Mild mannered life
is killing Bob. He tells Helen regarding Dash's 4th grade graduation,
that they keep "creating new ways to celebrate mediocrity".

One day Bob is contacted by the mysterious, Mirage (Elizabeth Pena),
enlisting his super powers for an undisclosed benefactor. Bob, still
super strong, no longer has the six pack abdominals. He proceeds to
train and trim the waistline. He sees his suit designer, Edna 'E' Mode
(Brad Bird), to fix his super suit. In a hilarious exchange, E enrolls
Mr. Incredible in a new suit, sans cape. It is disclosed that the
benefactor is villain, Syndrome (Jason Lee). Turns out that Mr.
Incredible was the one responsible for Syndrome's genesis when he
invalidated the young Syndrome 15 years ago. Thus, we have the classic
Superhero tale of conflict and revenge.

What also distinguishes "The Incredibles" along with the story about
reclaiming greatness, is that it is about family. In a very touching
scene when Mr. Incredible is about to do battle with the seemingly
invincible Omnidroid, he admits to Helen "...I'm not strong enough..."
Having super powers is great. Having the love of family is truly
powerful. Craig T. Nelson is perfect as Mr. Incredible. He is bold,
funny, and endearingly vulnerable. Holly Hunter is solid and folksy as
Helen, who also projects a quiet power. Jason Lee is at his annoying
best as Syndrome. Brad Bird as 'E' steals every scene that she is in.
Director Brad Bird's "The Incredibles" is amazing to look at, and also
has something special and touching to say.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the finest animated films I have ever seen. Not only is
it a fine animated film, it is a great film period. The film obviously
takes its cue from several real life super hero comic books, especially
The Fantastic Four and the Justice Society of America. The Fantastic
Four comparison is obvious due to the fact that Elatigirl and Violet
were obviously inspired by Mr. Fantastic (aka. Reed Richards) and the
Invisible Woman (aka. Sue Storm Richards) respectively. The J.S.A.
influence is a little more obscure. Several years ago, DC Comics issued
a mini-series that attempted to explain the demise of the Justice
Society by claiming that the group was forced to disband after their
loyalty to America was questioned during the 1950's. In this film, all
the heroes were forced into hiding after the government refused to pay
for wrongful legal claims brought against the super heroes of this
film. Also, there are many in jokes that the casual viewer might not
get, but that made it enjoyable for comic book fans. This the island
scenes look as if they could have been inspired by many of the series
produced by Gerry Anderson of the 1960's (eg. the Thunderbirds and
Captain Scarlet).

Another thing that made this film unique was its look. If you notice,
the city where the story takes place looks like a fairly modern
metropolis. However, if you look at the cars in the film, most of them
look as if they would have been more at home in the mid to late 1960's.
Also, the way that many of the characters were dressed also could have
put them in that time.

However, the thing that I really loved about this film was the fact
that even though it was geared primarily to children, it was dark
enough in theme to appeal to adults. In fact, there are a couple of
scenes that you wouldn't normally associate with a film geared towards
children.

This film is definitely a classic of animation and once again Pixar
shows why they are the masters of computer animation.
<|_=00=_|>
Pixar has again proved that it's ethics and capabilities are
inexterminable even for the tough-willed Dreamworks, which are
gradually attempting to catch up on with standards. But with Pixar's
new title, we once more experience a great gratifying animation which
deeps you inside by it's humorous and enthralling plot and keeps you
laughing out loudly until the very end. Dreamworks' titles compared to
Pixars are not too peculiar, but they seem to rip all their titles from
Pixar and create a fake illusion of originality. Now that Pixar has
created another chef-d'oeuvre, no doubt Dreamworks will once more rip
the idea and create a title relating to superheroes. 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am tired of reading reviews about how an animated film is too violent
for children, deals with mature issues like segregation or death, or is
simply "too grown up" for small children. Since when did we decide to
water down the truth for children, and when exactly are they old enough
for certain issues, and why is it animation means it's suppose to be
for children. Animation has allowed movie makers to break molds, has
allowed them to do things that could not be done with regular actors or
locations. We use CGI to accomplish effects we otherwise couldn't do,
why is the art of illustration not considered on the same level as the
art of computer graphics? I don't feel that just because something is
made for children it should be dumbed down and I don't believe that an
adult is too superior to watching something that is animated. Stories
geared toward children such as Aesop's Fables or the fairy tales of the
brothers Grimm, and Hans Christian Anderson, were told to teach life
lessons; don't cry wolf, be happy with what you have and don't trust
strangers. These are lessons, and stories, that were not watered down,
that showed to what evil depths greed, slothfulness and envy, just to
name a few, could take hold of in a person.

The Incredibles does not shy away from being real; it has an amazing
message for both adults and children. The message I saw over and over
again in the movie but could not find in a single review was how
society was oppressing people to be no better than someone else. We
seem to be headed towards embracing mediocrity, Harrison Bergeron, the
short story by Kurt Vonnegut that was later turned into a film with
Sean Astin, is the perfect example of someone smart being held back
because it would hurt the dumb kids feelings to know there was someone
better than them. The Incredible's attacks this head on, in one scene
the villain Syndrome (voiced by Jason Lee), who has no real super
powers but invents rocket shoes and remote controlled robots, tells Mr.
Incredible (Craig T. Nelson) that he plans on killing all the truly
empowered people and, using his inventions, become the only super hero
until he's had his fun, at which time he will sell his inventions
allowing everyone to become special "which of course means no one will
be".

Mr. Incredible and his wife, Elastigirl (Holly Hunter), have three
children. Daughter Violet (Sarah Vowell) can make herself invisible but
only uses it to hide from a boy she likes, she's been broken down in
spirit to feel like there is something horribly wrong with her and that
she should be ashamed for being empowered with this amazing gift, to
her it is a curse. Violet's younger brother Dash (Spencer Fox) on the
other hand is angry with not being allowed to play in sports, because
of his super speed, even though he promises not to show off. Their
character development is some of the most in depth I've seen for
"children" in a film, in part because it's real, they face death and
failure and they rise above their shame and anger to become real
heroes.

This movie is funny, it was honest, and it was one of the best films of
the year. There is real development, there are real issues and real
messages and at the end of the film I wanted to find the super hero in
myself. I don't see why we should deny younger people, our children,
the right to see something that is so beautiful just because of its
honesty.
