
I live for movies like this.

Saw it in a theater with about 12 other people. 3 people left about 20
minutes in. I'm not sure if they left because the movie was so bad or
because they couldn't hear the dialogue over the laughter of the rest
of us.

Mediocre special effects don't excite me. Abysmally bad special effects
are wonderful. I disagree with the previous commenter -- I don't think
the actors were walking on a treadmill in front of the green screen, I
think they were just standing in place and shifting their weight from
one foot to the other.

Sir Ben Kingsley is clearly aware of the "quality" of this film and
embraces the ridiculousness, having a great time reading his absurd
lines.

The plot, the dialogue, the special effects, the creatures, the actor's
accents -- each piece of this movie is worse than the last. There were
at least three scenes that made me laugh so hard I cried.

I love dumpster-diving through bad movies in search of treasure. The
recent crop of bad movies have been just plain boring. This one is the
diamond that makes it all worthwhile.
<|_=00=_|>
What exactly is the sound of thunder? If this movie is any indication
then it's the sound of moviegoers thundering towards the exit,
demanding their money back. Yes, the movie is that bad.

"Hey Johnny, how bad is it?" This movie is so bad that Ray Bradbury
wishes he could invent a time machine so that he could go back in time
and NOT write the short story, thus preventing this movie from ever
being made.

"Whoa, that bad?" Worse. In fact, this movie is so bad that Ray
Bradbury might kill himself just so he can roll over in his grave. I
know you think I'm trying to be cute, but I'm being serious. This was
one of the strangest movie experiences I've had in quite a while. The
problem is that I went into the movie expecting to enjoy it. I thought
it had the chance to be pretty good. So at the very start I was trying
to make excuses for what was unraveling on screen.

The first thing to induce unintentional laughter was the fact that Ben
Kingsley (the owner of the time traveling safari who's only interested
in how much money he can make) looks like Bob Barker. Nice poofy white
wig, Ben. Oh well, no big deal, I can laugh that off. Then we're
introduced to the first CGI dinosaur of the movie. "Hmm, that sure
looks really fake," I thought. "Oh, I know! It's supposed to be fake.
They're tricking the hunters into thinking the dinosaur is real, but
it's mechanical or something." Nope. Imagine my sheer horror when I
came to the realization that the dinosaur was supposed to be real. Wow.
At this point I started to get nervous.

Then came the incredibly bad green screens. Folks, these are some of
the worst green screens I've ever seen. My words cannot do justice to
how fake they looked. Some might even say they looked faker than those
things Pamela Anderson tries to pass off as breasts. When you can tell
that the actors are walking on a treadmill then you have serious issues
that are long past addressing. I was absolutely shocked at what I was
witnessing. Honestly, I started to get confused and thought, "What in
the world is going on? This movie cost $80 million to make, there's no
way it can look this bad." Where there's a will, there's a way, and
somebody must've had a strong will to make this as cheesy and as goofy
as they could because I cannot come up with any other explanation.

I actually like the concept of the movie - the butterfly effect - the
theory that something as small as a butterfly flapping its wings can
produce long-term effects on a dynamical system. However, this movie
presents the theory in the most outlandish, most unbelievable way
imaginable. Sorry, but I just didn't buy it. One of the scientists in
the movie argues that if you kill a bee, then that bee can't pollinate
a flower, and an animal will not be able to eat that flower, thus that
animal will die and can cause damaging long-term effects. Um, if
"Flower A" never blossoms then an animal that's hungry will just go
find "Flower B" and eat that. I don't think the animal will immediately
die AND CAUSE HUMANS TO TURN INTO ALIEN-LIKE CREATURES!!! Come on.

So the movie decides to take the "butterfly effect" to the most extreme
depths that it possibly can - fine, whatever. What *really* bothered me
is it doesn't care to explain why killing the butterfly resulted in the
world being taken over by horribly rendered CGI creatures. It would
have at least been nice to have an explanation as to why and how such
drastic changes took place because of one simple butterfly.

The butterfly would've been killed in a volcano that erupts right
before they head back to the time machine anyway, so how do you explain
that? Well, if your name is A Sound of Thunder then you don't. You just
say, "Here's the premise, now we're just going to become a monster
movie and have the good guys be chased by bat monsters in the dark."
Well, I'd be interested in hearing what's said when this movie becomes
one of the biggest (if not THE biggest) flops of the year.

At about the halfway point I realized that there was no need to
continue to rationalize why the movie appeared to be so bad. I accepted
the fact that in this case appearances were not deceiving and this was
just a really horrible movie. If you can accept that from the start
then there is plenty of unintentional laughter to be had.

Once our heroes started being chased by weird ape/bat/dinosaur hybrids,
I just kicked back, laughed, and shook my head at the fact that the CGI
is as bad (if not worse) than what you see in Sci-Fi Original movies
starring Lorenzo Lamas and Michael Paré. I wish I were exaggerating.

I honestly don't know how this movie was allowed to achieve such
mediocrity. You know when one of the characters starts off with an
American accent, then begins to fluctuate between American and British
accents, and then eventually settles into her native British accent
that everybody involved has obviously thrown in the towel and said,
"Screw it, let's just get this over with." You would think that in the
year 2005 a movie with an $80 million budget wouldn't look more like a
movie that was made on an $8 million budget. I'm sorry, but CGI this
awkward on this size of a budget is just inexcusable. Way to go
Hollywood. We can only hope a few jobs are lost over this disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
I have lived in the Los Angeles area for about a year now. When I can,
I enjoy seeing free screenings of movies. As I understand it, these
test screenings are done by marketing-research companies at the behest
of the movie studios. You watch a movie for free and then you fill out
a form explaining what you liked and didn't like about the movie. The
company then selects a smaller group of viewers for a Q & A focus
group.

So I saw a free screening of A SOUND OF THUNDER about six months ago.
We were told that the special effects were just "mock-ups" and
therefore to not judge those effects too harshly. And we were promised
that for the actual release the special effects would look spectacular.

I just watched A SOUND OF THUNDER on its opening Friday and the special
effects were EXACTLY the same. They used the mock-ups, the "pretend
special effects," for the release.

Which leaves me to believe that the test screenings got such bad
feedback that the studio decided to cut its losses. They didn't
advertise this film very much and they didn't spend any REAL money on
the special effects.

One thing they may have changed was some of the editing. The pace felt
a little better than the original free screening. I mean the movie has
a lot of problems but it seemed like some small things were cut or at
least cut differently.

I'm hoping that the DVD will have a commentary track so we can hear the
behind-the-scenes story of what really happened. But I doubt the studio
will put any bells and whistles on the DVD release.

I agree with everyone else. This is a bad movie (with the exception of
Ben Kingsley's interesting character work). But it was made worse by
the studio's lack of commitment and backing.
<|_=00=_|>
The possibilities of time travel make for complex science fiction. As
one of Sci-Fi's great writers, Ray Bradbury saw the potential for
making a point and used it to a frightening end. As a lame-duck
director, Peter Hyams saw the opportunity to make one more project and
maybe give his career some much-needed resuscitation. The misaligned
dichotomy simply results in a mess.

In the mid-21st Century, Travis Ryer (Ed Burns) leads prehistoric
hunting safaris, from which the Time Safari (groan) company earns its
bread and butter. Having seized the time machine built by Sonia Rand
(Catherine McCormack), Charles Hatton (Ben Kingsley) built up his
company to overcharge the indulgent rich who seek to have a new
experience. On a trek with a pair of thrill seeking buddies, a couple
of things go wrong, and although everyone survives, the mistake causes
changes in time and evolution. It is at this point where the noticeable
deviation from Bradbury's story occurs. In the original tale, there was
no going back to fix the problem, and the time travelers were left to
face the horror of a world which had been subtly altered to permit
ignorance, bigotry and fascism to be the dominant qualities of mankind.
In the hands of these screenwriters, the mistake simply becomes a
vehicle to generate a variety of creepy-crawly monsters that stalk the
people of the story as they try to literally race against time and fix
the mistake.

The script drags all the clichés out and leaves the actors to cover
them. There is the greedy CEO, the disillusioned scientist, the noble
hero, loyal sidekick and even a corrupt official. The scientist
expresses her outrage at the corporate abuse of her invention to the
hero who is a better man than she expected. All the actors do
everything they can to rail against the pitfalls they are presented
with. Ed Burns conveys an easy hero's swagger and knows that he'll get
more mileage out of underplaying than by shouting. Catherine McCormack
does a highly competent job of spouting endless reams of technobabble
while managing to sound like she actually knows what she is talking
about, but she and Burns simply have no romantic chemistry. How Academy
Award Winner Ben Kingsley ended up as part of the production is
anyone's guess, but the quirks that he piles into the carnival-mouthed
"Charles Hatton" are the single best bit of entertainment.

Hyams fumbles the details to the point of insulting the audience.
People make all sorts of irrational decisions just to forward the plot
or introduce a set piece. When someone makes a mistake, they usually
recheck their work. Here the tech drops a piece of equipment and
visibly damages it. He re-stacks it and ignores it. Even the hero, at
one point, declares that the party must go down into the dark,
abandoned, unstable and partly flooded subway tunnels because "it's the
only way". Presumably, it's better to have the odds stacked against you
where you might run into bloodthirsty creatures instead of staying on
stable ground where you might run into bloodthirsty creatures. Although
there isn't any sort of racial subtext, the movie goes so far as to
sacrifice the only major African-American character as a distraction to
hungry monsters so the white people can run for their lives. It doesn't
seem to be making any sort of real-world point, and the editor does
struggle against this obviously outdated plot moment. However, it
ultimately plays out badly and without dignity. 

There is also no reason (other than it looks cool) to believe that
changes in time would occur in visible waves of force that knock people
and cars around, but not buildings or animals. One can imagine that
this might have been at least fun in the hands of a militantly
perfectionist filmmaker like Jim Cameron who beats even clichéd
celluloid moments until they resound with the exact shape and feel he
demands. In spite of making several films throughout the 90's and
recent years, Hyams peaked with "2010: The Year We Make Contact" in
1984 - while standing on Stanley Kubrick's cinematic shoulders. Even
taking the troubled production history of "A Sound of Thunder" into
account, Hyams butchers the possibilities here.

The audience is denied the simple delight of watching special effects
during a sci-fi adventure because of the shoddy craftsmanship and a
lack of money. Several virtual sets were created to make a more
complete city of the future, but they often look unrendered and more
like a very good artist's drawing. However this is not a substitute for
a good set, and it is painfully clear when actors are standing in front
of a green screen. This was originally slated for a 2003 release, which
would have put it ahead of the virtual productions of "Sky Captain" and
"Sin City". Had things not been derailed by the original production
company's bankruptcy (see the "Thunder" trivia section on IMDb.com),
then maybe this would have been noteworthy in its attempt to push
special effects boundaries. Unfortunately for the filmmakers, there
were many times when the audience at this screening burst into laughter
at some of the sights. The one thing that Hyams' FX team does get right
is the gang of computer-generated creatures that should have been the
design for the villain in his 1997 movie, "The Relic". As cool as the
things look, it is 8 years and 3 movies past due.

Failures in effects and leaps of logic can be forgiven, but only up to
a point. This is not a misfire form an otherwise successful director.
This is a poor turn by a weak hand who refuses to respect his
characters or the audience who has come to be entertained. Only the
actors make the weak production bearable. "A Sound of Thunder" got a
second chance to pull things together, but look into your own future
and avoid watching this mistake.

2 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
USAToday.com called it: "A story that is a pale imitation of a Michael
Crichton novel." The Los Angeles Times said: "The picture looks as
murky as its story line and most everything on the screen looks
patently fake." CNN.com remarked: "'Sound of Thunder,' smell of
garbage." But Variety.com summed it up nicely: "Every bit as bad as
advance buzz has indicated..." And then some.

I first heard about this movie prior to its release on TVGuide.com's
"Coming Soon" section. The single-sentence description suggesting a
plot around time traveling safaris for the sole purpose of killing a
Tyrannosaurus Rex that was going to die anyhow just seemed, well a bit
loopy, at least for a major motion picture. So I read the short story
by Ray Bradbury, upon which the movie was supposedly based and, even
though I had a hard time visualizing such a story expanded to 2 hours
of running and screaming on the big screen, hoped for the best. After
hearing and reading all of the dramatically poor reviews by movie
critics and fans alike, curiosity got the best of me. I wanted to know
if it was really that bad.

It is. It is every bit as bad. In fact, a half-hour into the film, I
was completely alone, free to yawn, stretch, scream at the top of my
lungs and move about the theater.

The basic premise is relatively simple, as it was a short story to
begin with. In the year 2055, time travel has been patented by a greedy
businessman played by none other than Sir Ben Kingsley (as he's
credited), sporting a white wig that one movie critic likened to a lump
of cotton candy, and yet another likened to a massive White Persian cat
perched atop his head. I prefer the latter analogy. Time Safari, Inc.
offers rich people a chance to travel 65 million years into the past to
kill  not hunt  dinosaurs already predestined to die at the same
place and time. As long as the merry band of time travelers remains on
a path resembling transparent liquid metal that hovers above the
terrain and do not interfere with the environment in any way, history
and evolution as we know it are still preserved. Of course, the rigid
controls supposed to be in effect are futile against a cowardly inept
rich snob who carelessly stomps on a butterfly.

The Butterfly Effect is, of course, the theory that maintains that a
butterfly's wings flapping on one side of the earth could eventually
cause a hurricane thousands of miles away. In the movie, the effect
causes ripples in time, i.e. a tidal wave in the form of a series of
'Time Waves' that exactly resemble and mimic the aquatic version,
visibly sweeping over the Windy City at distant intervals and knocking
the main characters around in Matrix-like slow motion shots.
Immediately following each successive time wave, hideous distortions
abound in the form of primordial and deadly vegetation, half-primate,
half-reptilian creatures with the need to feed (on humans), giant
reptilian bats, and not to be outdone, a brief cameo by the man-eating
scarab beetles of 'The Mummy' fame. Seriously.

But enough about the pathetically stupid script. I wanted to know if
the special effects were really as bad as people claimed. At one point,
the camera tracks the two main stars, Edward Burns and Catherine
McCormack, as they cross a busy futuristic street in one of the worst
on-screen examples of green-screen effects I have ever witnessed in a
big budget movie. I can't readily explain it with words  when you see
it, you're simply distracted by how fake it is the rendering, even the
lighting contrast. In another reckless green-screen scene, Burns and
co-star Jemima Rooper, whose native British accent keeps resurfacing
throughout the movie, are supposed to be walking along a sidewalk and
immersed in conversation, but are instead spitting out stupid dialogue
while obviously stationary on a moving walkway. It's as if someone
pulled the plug on the computers before CGI rendering was completed.

In Sum, 'A Sound of Thunder' is every bit as bad as the bad reviews
have claimed. The script is stupid. The effects are deplorable. The
acting? Who cares. It may not be nearly as bad as ''Manos' The Hands of
Fate,' but I would definitely consider it to be the worst movie of 2005
(thus far), and the worst movie I ever paid to see in a theater.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand why people hate this movie so much. I haven't seen
such scathing reviews since Gigli. It sure seems like people (both the
pros on rottentomatos and the amateurs here) are just trying to outdo
each other in how nasty they can be. 

Let me hit the major objections:

The time waves. Oh boy, people hated the time waves. Too complicated
and it was different than the previous movies they'd seen, they said. I
would point out that the time-wave theory most recently appeared in the
2005 Doctor Who series, and it made sense on its own terms. The movie
took care to explain why the time waves could not be passed through,
and why the alternate travel at the end eliminated them. What else
could you ask for? Would people prefer the lousy, nonsensical
"fade-away" theory of Back to the Future? Or the Terminator style of
just ignoring the paradox altogether? I for one like to see new sci-fi
ideas when I watch sci-fi movies. The griping about the central plot
innovation reminds of how people hated the original Ring movie for the
idea of the enchanted videotape.

The SFX. Granted, they weren't at the level of Lord of the Rings, but
the movie did not cost as much as Lord of the Rings. For a movie that
had so little money left over for post after the Czech floods destroyed
the sets during shooting, it's rather unfair to point out that there
were only a handful of vehicle models and one of the street textures
came from 3D Studio Max. The effects on the whole were far better than
most of what we saw in the 1990s, and they were considered adequate
then. To say the SFX looked like cardboard cut-outs? Give me a break.
That kind of frothing at the mouth is not helpful in a review.
Moreover, the SFX always advance the plot, which is something that
can't be said for the Star Wars podrace or the Harry Potter Quidditch
(also known as the George Lucas et al. Bathroom Break).

The acting. One of the previous comments glowingly referred to Ben
Kingsley's work in Sexy Beast. Now that movie had the worst camera-work
since Blair Witch and the most turgid, obvious plot, and the tardiest
pacing of any movie I saw that year. If that person likes movies like
Sexy Beast (I believe the polite word for that kind of movie is
"dialogue-driven"), then it's their own damn fault for going to see a
monster sci-fi movie. I believe the acting could be fairly described as
"competent" -- easily better than the Star Wars movies, for example.
Nobody is going to win an Oscar, but on the other hand it doesn't star
Russell Crowe.

The script. I agree it could have used some editing, but at no point do
the characters act like complete idiots. I would have liked to have
seen an explanation of why the expeditions never ran into each other
until the end, and why the main character just disappears at the end.
But most, if not all, of the minor plot holes could have been resolved
with better dialogue. For instance, instead of wasting time saying
roughly "It will hurt, when you're pulled twice," the female scientist
could have said "when this machine shuts down, this version of you will
die." When they're going into the subway, the main character could have
said "there are monsters up here and we would die; there may not be
monsters down there" instead of whatever frivolous comment he made. In
other movies (much of the Matrix 2 and 3, or the ending of AI), the
plots simply made no sense on a first watching. It is better, in my
opinion, to have a script that could use a little editing instead of
one that completely bamboozles the moviegoer. Also, the repetitiveness
of the movie (such as the ape-lizards which seemed to be everywhere)
seemed to be because of SFX short-budgeting -- they had a limited
creature budget. As I said above I think it's a little unfair to
criticize the movie for being low-budget, when on the whole it looks
pretty good.

I was glad to see a B-style sci-fi movie, since its been months since
the 2005 Doctor Who series finished. It had big sets, famous
second-tier actors, and lots of SFX. The plot was miles better than the
last four or five Star Trek movies, to say nothing of Alien v.
Predator, and it's a shame that it will do so much more poorly just
because it doesn't have a "franchise" attached to it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie poster for this and read a blurb, and though cool, my
wife and I love action adventure sci-fi flicks. I ended up getting 2
free movie tickets from work and thought I'd take my wife to see
this... What can i say? this movie is bad. Many times my wife and I
snickered as the FX were not much better than what most any college kid
with can do with their computer, a green blanket and a MiniDV cam. It
was like watching something on Sci-Fi Channel at 1am on a slow holiday
at home. the people in front of us got up and left, and never came
back. there were only 8 or 9 of us in the theatre to begin with and
there were only 2 times for this Film, which should of warned me
especially since I had never seen any commercials or trailers for this
ever before.

Sure there are some parts that were cool, and some interesting tidbits,
but they were hard to follow. I am saddened that this guy Peter Hyams
took a good story by Ray Bradbury and turned it into this crud. 

Yep, this was at least a D movie... D for Dumb, Dismal, Disappointing,
and D for Don't Go see this. If you like low end Movies go rent one at
your video store or turn on your Cable TV.
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine a film student who's learning to use CGI technology for the
first time. His final project in class is to create a full-length
feature film using everything he's learned in class the entire
semester. His film would be better than A Sound of Thunder.

It's Jurassic Park meets The Butterfly Effect, but it's total crap. The
production of this futuristic, sci-fi tale (based on the classic Ray
Bradbury short story) is pathetically cheap and completely distracts
from an otherwise interesting story. It's 2055, and time travel is now
possible. When a group of safari hunters travel back to prehistoric
time to kill a tyrannosaurus Rex, an equipment failure causes one time
traveler to panic and step on a butterfly, thus disrupting the entire
evolution of life on earth.

Cool story, right? Poorly, poorly, poorly executed. The CGI dinosaur is
a joke, as are all the other "creatures," and the futuristic outside
shots are so lame you can practically see the green screen outline on
the actors. Shot during the 2002 flooding of Prague, A Sound of Thunder
was delayed for so long because the production company went bankrupt.
And it shows.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie this evening as part of a promotional screening.
This movie wants to be a strong moral tale about how humans should not
mess with time travel for fear of disturbing our natural evolution.
However good Ed Burns is as the lead, you are never convinced by the
story as it is full of clichés and seemingly tacked-on action
sequences. They get chased by monsters for so much of the movie you
start to ask yourself it they got confused between the sci-fi and
horror genres. The special effects are plentiful, however they are
atrocious, fake and gratuitous in the sense that the camera lingers on
CG monsters and landscapes for so long that it seems perhaps they
wanted to show off how much money they spent. But it adds nothing to
the otherwise weak plot, which - now that I think of it - has a
simplistic comic-book quality to it. But if the latter were completely
true it should be more surreal and not have so much awful superfluous
dialogue that actually just sounds like it is set on repeat ('you don't
know what you are messing with in time travel..' and the like). If you
happen to have nothing else to see, rent Timecop. Yes, this movie is
that bad. P.S. Ben Kingsley, why did you do this movie? After seeing
you in so many wonderful movies, even as a great villain in Sexy Beast,
this performance just looked like you were making a bad used-car
salesman impression.
<|_=00=_|>
Another awful adaptation of a great short story, this movies had some
great potential thanks to the story its based on but it took a very
very wrong turn somewhere along the way. The actors don't live up to my
expectations there performance is unbelievable they could have just
phoned it in an saved all of us a loss of time and money..i really
didn't like this movie, after the acting started to bore me to death of
i thought the special effects would pay the ticket but forget it they
suck most of all, a wast of a very good piece of literature..Bradbury
would also say this movie really really doesn't live up to expectations
for his fans

If there is any other option at the multiplex take it!!!!
