
- MASSIVE SPOILERS AHEAD -

Last night I went to watch the German premiere of what I hoped would be
the triumphant finale in the X-Men trilogy. I had purposefully ignored
all early reviews and news about the film, I didn't even know that
Bryan Singer had left the project - believe me, after ten minutes of
the movie, I knew he had.

I won't bother to go into the story here, as in fact, there are almost
five or six story lines from the comics collapsed into this movie, none
of them working at all. It almost seems as if three different movies
had been made and then just cut together. Jean Grey as Phoenix is so
badly developed that it amounts to an insult to any fan of the comic
book. During the final battle she just stands around in the background
for -literally- twenty minutes until she decides to annihilate San
Francisco, obviously for the sole purpose of creating a "cool" FX
sequence. To see just how much the production team obviously
disrespects the intelligence of the audience, watch how day turns to
night from one shot to another after Magneto moves the Golden Gate
Bridge to Alcatraz. My jaw dropped at witnessing such a massive
continuity error.

Brett Ratner obviously has no love or respect whatsoever for the comics
or even the previous films, as is displayed by the following creative
disasters that riddle this movie:

- Nightcrawler, who was a visually entrancing and emotionally
interesting character in the last installment has mysteriously
disappeared from the X-Men...

- Rattner introduces new Mutants left right and center without
developing their character or even their motivation one bit - something
Singer paid great attention to. The best example is the prison
breakout, where Magneto frees Multiple Man and the Juggernaut, both of
whom agree to join his cause without even knowing who he is or what his
cause is.

- The costume design of the Juggernaut is indescribably ridiculous and
makes every scene featuring him unintentionally funny. Think Hercules
meets the Flintstones.

- Gone is the subtle, inventive dialog from parts 1 and 2. It is
replaced by clich√©d phrases that are delivered by a visibly unmotivated
cast, Hugh Jackman being the best example, a mere shadow of himself.
For every funny one-liner in this movie, there are at least ten that
will make you wince.

- Cyclops is killed off like a character from a bad soap opera in the
first ten minutes of the movie. It is inexcusable to remove such a
vital character in such a disrespectful manner and I feel sorry for
James Marsden for having to go out on a whimper like he did.

The list goes on and on.

This movie is the sudden demise of what Brian Singer turned into one of
the great franchises and I can only imagine how he must feel at seeing
what the producers are willing to do for a quick buck.

Anybody who liked the first two movies, likes the comic book, or has
any respect for decent film-making - I ask you to save your ten bucks
and not hand it to the makers of what is a failure of character and
creativity in every respect.

Thanks for reading.
<|_=00=_|>
I just left a sneak preview for this movie and I could not be more
disappointed. The only people that will enjoy this film are the ones
that know absolutely nothing about the X-Men. Shame on Avi Arad and
Lauren Shuler Donner for allowing this terrible representation to be
completed and released. After watching the first two X-Men films, I was
positive this would be amazing, mind-blowing, and above and beyond any
fan's expectations. Instead it did not even try to meet those
expectations. Please do not continue to read if you do not want to read
about details of the film.

There is one redeeming quality for this movie: Storm is actually
powerful. Took them long enough to use her character properly.

I don't know whose idea it was to try and cram everything they possibly
could into one film, but it really should have been reconsidered. The
Danger Room finally appears, but only for a few minutes and there is no
mention of its name, or purpose. In this scene a Sentinel is destroyed,
but again no mention of why they are fighting a giant robot, or what it
is called.

Next, the entire Phoenix story should have been ignored for this film.
Jean Grey returns only to be a fireless Phoenix that resembles a
psychotic demon rather than an all-powerful goddess. Not only is her
return repulsive, but she kills Cyclops almost immediately in the film.
Although I understand this cannot follow the comic book exactly,
something that should not change is that Jean Grey's love for Cyclops
is what gives her the strength to overcome the Phoenix and ultimately
take her own life. In the film, Wolverine kills Jean Grey/Phoenix, even
though in the comics his character's love for Jean Grey prevented this
action. Not to mention earlier in the film Phoenix tossed Wolverine
around like a rag doll, but could not take him down at the end of the
movie. At least they could have pitted Storm against the Phoenix in the
finale, but instead we are left with another stabbing.

This movie attempts so much, but accomplishes so little. It introduces
Angel, whose part is almost nonexistent. Why did I see him in a million
promo shots of him wearing a X-Men uniform, but not once does he wear
it in the film? They should have just killed Rogue. She is the only
X-Men member that seeks out the "cure". It's bad enough her character's
powers resembled nothing of her comic book counterpart, but did they
really have to take away what little power she had? Does this film ever
say Shadowcat, Colossus, Psylocke, Angel, Beast, Danger Room, Sentinel,
or Multiple Man? If it does it is very quick and quite lacking in
explanation. It's oddly insulting because you have to be a fan to know
who the characters are, but the story and world has been altered so
much it creates frustration knowing this will be the best
representation of these characters in the film world.

The only way this film would work is if another one was coming out next
week to portray Phoenix correctly, reconsider who lives and dies,
reverse the cure, and actually identify key characters and elements by
their names. This could have been one of the best movies ever made. The
stories of the X-Men are identifiable, spectacular, and emotionally
charged. This falls flat as just a summer special effects film with
some creepy parts.
<|_=00=_|>
**This contains very minor spoilers** I was really very excited for
this movie, but having seen footage of the Danger Room sequence at the
beginning I didn't have very high hopes. If you've seen this scene, you
can pretty much apply that to the whole movie. It contains cheesy
dialog, sub-par performances (despite good actors), a horrible plot,
but worst of all: it completely fails to represent the characters as
they are in the comics or other movies. Magneto is a horrible
strategist in the film- he doesn't care when other mutants are lost.
Wolverine is completely out of character, the Pheonix Force makes Jean
look undead rather than- you know- like a pheonix (I didn't see any
flames), Juggernaut is a joke, Callisto is reduced to a poor man's
Quicksilver (the super speed looks like it's from Smallville). In the
final battle, most of the mutants there (Magneto!) could easily win the
fight in an instant but instead use their powers in the most
inefficient way possible: Magneto and Pyro "team up" to launch flaming
cars at the enemy. Magneto could easily tear up a car and shoot
everyone with a chunk of it, while pyro could BURN THEM. All the time
spent on this movie went into thinking up the coolest special effects
possible, and that failed too. It's not that I couldn't get past the
bad plot, it was that the effects were tied to the plot in a sickening
way. Throughout the whole move I was thinking, "Singer, where art
thou". The best part of the movie- and I REALLY hate to say it- was the
new Superman Returns trailer at the beginning. He gets shot in the eye
slo-mo and it bounces right off!
<|_=00=_|>
This contains spoilers, but nevermind since the movie is bad and you
shouldn't go see it.

There were two good things about X-Men III. First, we arrived a bit
late so I actually missed all the advertisements. Second, at one point
in the movie they show a family trapped in a car in front of Magneto
and his army of mutants, and the woman actually locks the car thinking
it's going to make a difference. That would have made me smile if I
hadn't been busy listing the best ways to kill the movie director at
that point.

I don't even know where to start, so I'll begin with how Brett Ratner
deals with the characters. Cyclops is killed. Professor Xavier is
killed. Jean Grey is killed. Mystique is now a human. Rogue is now a
human. Magneto is now a human (although a little doubt remains, see
"the worst ending sequence in the history of mankind" paragraph). Now
you may be wondering "who the hell remains except for Wolverine and
Storm" (you may also be wondering why Ratner is still living)? Well,
Director Stupid introduced a new group of totally uninteresting
mutants, with absolutely no personality. Juggernaut and Multiple Man
agree to join Magneto not knowing who he is or wtf he is planning to
do. Kitty Pride looks like she's twelve, Angel is apparently only in
the movie for advertisement purposes (he has almost as much screen time
as in the trailer), Callisto is the needed 'ghetto' black character
(seriously, listen to how she speaks... or don't, actually don't),
there was even some emo/Gothic girl, I'm still trying to figure why
Magneto didn't slap her for getting that haircut. Beast first appears
as a scholar then fights with the other X-Men at the end, not much to
say about him. Wait, there's not much to say about any of those
characters except "die in a fire".

That brings us to the actual plot and storyline. When a sad Cyclops
tells Wolverine "Not everyone heals as fast as you do", I knew this
movie was going to suck. I can easily imagine the writers patting each
other in the back for three hours after finding that line. Way to go,
too bad everyone in the audience almost puked when he said that.
Anyway, Cyclops dies like a punk less than twenty minutes into the
movie, and guess what we don't even see his death. Apparently they felt
they were going the right way since the script just keeps getting
worse. I guess they tried to bring in as many things from the comics as
possible and mix them, but instead of actually developing each element
they rushed the movie (it's one hour forty minutes long), which ruined
everything. Rogue taking the cure is not exploited enough, Jean turning
into the Phoenix is a big joke, she just stands there doing nothing
after Magneto recruits her. She eventually decides to annihilate the
universe at the end, which is a pathetic excuse for a thirty-seconds FX
sequence. When she asks Wolverine "Are you willing to die for them?",
he answers "I'm willing to die for you". Any writer that comes up with
such a line should be shot dead. No trial, just shot. Don't even get me
started on Xavier's death or the fact that there are no flames around
the Phoenix (Jane), they couldn't even get the stupid flames right.
What the hell does she do anyway? Make confettis? Can her power look
any less impressive? "Oh no, she's making confettis, nevermind that
Magneto just made the Golden Gate Bridge levitate and let's RUN FOR OUR
LIVES!!". The only good thing about her is that she killed the
emo/Gothic guy.

Pyro is a stupid arrogant kid, who keeps acting tough because he can
throw flames. Wow, you were born with your power and you can actually
use it, that's like bragging about knowing how to walk. Get a job
elsewhere than in a circus and I might be impressed. He can't even use
his power properly, I mean he ignites cars thrown by Magneto. Maybe
next time you could actually think of, I don't know, throwing fire AT
YOUR ENEMIES and not at stupid flying cars? Everything is so rushed
that you stop caring anyway.

The worst ending sequence in the history of mankind: 

The ending sequence features Magneto sitting at a chess table in a
park. Now Magneto only started a mutant vs human war, ruined the Golden
Gate Bridge, launched an attack on the Alcatraz Island that resulted in
the complete destruction of the place and the death of dozens of
soldiers, you'd think he'd maybe get a little prison time. But no,
apparently everyone is happy in stupid land, they all kissed and hugged
and he's forgiven. But that's not the worst thing, we also actually see
Magneto move a chess piece without touching it, meaning that his power
is not completely gone, meaning that EVERYTHING IS MAYBE NOT OVER!
Arggghhhh, stop it already! It was announced that this would be the
last X-Men movie (and believe me, it's for the greater good), end it
like a man and don't imply something else might happen. Magneto is free
and his power is not completely gone. WTF has changed since the
beginning of the movie except that the X-Men have lost so many members
that they have to fight with twelve-year-olds and Magneto doesn't have
stupid Pyro following him anymore? The credits come up directly after
we see the piece moving, with a sound supposed to make you go "wow!".
Well I did go "wow!", and by "wow!" I mean "let's hunt Ratner down and
send him to the one place where he belongs", which is the nearest black
hole. X-Men 3 is terrible, don't go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me say that X3 was a great action film. If you want
to have a great time at the movies, this is a fun film to watch.
However, as a fan of X-Men and the film trilogy, there were some
problems with the film. 

There are a lot of characters that are undeveloped. It's not such a
problem with the one's we already know, but it is for the one's that we
don't. There's also unneeded information for certain characters that
aren't really in the movie. Certain characters play big roles, but we
don't get to know them. Others have minor roles, and the info is
meaningless. For instance, a character is introduced in the prologue to
the movie, but is barely seen in the remainder of the film. The movie
was way too short. It seems like everyone's in a hurry throughout the
film. If it had been 2 and a half hours, it would have been able to
develop all of the characters, and the back stories would have been
more relevant to certain characters. The movie is action packed and
fun, but it really doesn't draw you into it the way the first two did,
say for a couple of scenes. 

Overall, it was worth seeing on the big screen, and I'm glad that I saw
it. It is a good film. But again, you'll be a little disappointed as an
X-Men fan. 7/10.

One final thing, stay after the credits for the final scene. It seems
nobody saw the entire movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all I just have to say that growing up and to this day I have
always been a huge fan of Marvel comics and their expanded universes,
specifically Spider-Man and X-Men. I'm still wondering what to think
about this movie about an hour after seeing it. I waited so long for
X-Men to be made into a movie series, and after seeing "The Last Stand"
I was very disappointed. Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy some of the
film, for example the danger room sequence at the beginning, that was
exactly what I thought the X-Men fighting the Sentinels should look
like. However, the story, or lack thereof for that matter, literally
angered me. How do you kill Professor X, Jean Grey, and Cyclops in the
X-Men movies?! These people weren't supposed to die, what connected me
to them throughout my years as a fan was how strong these characters
were and how they were able to overcome the problems their world put
into their way. "The Cure" as they called was hardly developed, the
characters introduced in this movie lacked an introduction, and
although it was nice to see Angel, Kitty Pryde, Colossus, and
Juggernaut, among others, they may as well not even been in the movie.
It was as though the entire thing was one giant spectacle, and
disappointed me to the levels of the final installment of Star Wars. X2
left me hungry for more, and the original X-Men film had its problems,
but at least stayed true to the foundations on which the story was
based. This movie left a very bad taste in my mouth; Magneto and Rogue
lose their powers (Rogue before she is even given any chance to shine),
three major characters die, and the main character of the trilogy thus
far, Wolverine, received the spotlight role among all of the other
equally interesting X-Men, yet he gets his own film afterward and many
characters we fans wanted to see, if for only a few minutes, never even
made it to the screen. Like I said before, there were a few things I
liked about the film. In my opinion, Beast was done justice. Seeing
Iceman and Colossus reach their full mutant forms was also pleasing.
Beyond these few things I have mentioned, I was not very impressed and
thoroughly disappointed. The moment I heard Brett Ratner was taking
over the project I began to worry, and this film proved me right. As a
film student myself, long-time film lover, and X-Men fanatic, my hope
for good art and good movies to be created from stories that had been
around for so long just waited to be brought to the big screen was
poisoned by this film. I know a lot of people will say that some
changes had to be made to bring the comic to film, and I agree, but not
to the drastic extents that this film took. The Spider-Man films
weren't entirely true to the comics, but the changes were minute and
fit well into the already famous and beloved storyline. Sam Raimi
nailed those films and I remain thankful for his adaptations bringing
my, and many others', beloved Spider-Man to the big screen. And as far
as the first two X-Men films went, I was happy for the most part. But I
have never been so disappointed in anything in my life as I was in this
movie. To me, the X-Men took a creative and interesting spin on a
problem that actually faces humankind, and all of that was lost here.
There was really no resolution, no payoff, and no story. The film could
have gone in a much better direction had the X-Men been forced to face
one of their own, the Pheonix (Jean Grey), and brought her back with
having her face the same attacks by the humans (Sentinels)that the
X-Men faced. There would have been much more room to bring characters
many wanted to see thoroughly into the picture (ie. Angel, Gambit,
Beast, Psylocke, Colossus, Kitty, etc.) instead of bringing in many
insignificant parties just to complicate things and provide for
non-stop action. We could have easily got to know all of these new
characters and then some if the story had been much better devised and
the movie not been so rushed. This was also evident with the film's
length; did they really expect to pull all of that off in less than two
hours and have it work? The action in the film was well produced, but
it seemed as thought that's all there was, action. They had enough to
work with from the original story lines (ie. the rise of the Pheonix
and the mutant-human war), they shouldn't have brought "The Cure" in to
complicate things. Through all of my disappointment I still hold hope
for a better X-Men 4 with the final scenes from this movie, and hope
that the numerous X-Men fans finally get the pay off we so well deserve
for buying all of those comics and keeping Marvel in business for so
long.

*I hope that this all reads clearly and concisely and that those of you
who read this can understand my disappointment, after all it is 3:30 in
the morning, and I'm a little shaken up.
<|_=00=_|>
Long-time fan of the comics and fan of the first flicks. That being
said - this was one of the worst films I have seen in ages. Brett
Ratner should be ashamed of himself. 

It is painfully obvious that Ratner never read X-Men, nor did the
screenwriters successfully piece together any sort of cohesion to the
story. Such utter disregard for the history and development of so many
beloved characters is like a slap in the face to true X-Men fans. 

With just way too many random story threads running throughout the
film, the movie just winds up not knowing which way is up. Razzle
Dazzle SFX does not a good film make, and killing off main characters
or taking away their powers is a great way to destroy what was a great
franchise.

HOW TO KILL A FRANCHISE 101

Cyclops: Phoenix kills him in the first 15 mins. His death is never
seen. He dies like a punk. Totally inappropriate. Anyone who's read a
comic would/should know this wouldn't work.

Xavier: Phoenix disintegrates him. WTF?

Jean: Ends up getting stabbed by Logan at the end (another huge no-no
if you've read the comics)

Mystique, Magneto, Rogue all lose their powers. Pointless.

Not only are there too many story threads, but also too many
characters. Angel - who figured prominently in the trailers is in the
film for all of 3 minutes, as is Collossus. Shadowcat and Iceman's
relationship is twisted since she looks all of 12 years old. And let's
not even go there with Rogue whining about not being able to kiss Bobby
(hence taking the cure) and Xavier being played as an arrogant SOB. 

The sole saving grace in the entire film was Iceman vs Pyro. The rest
of it was an illogical hash of SFX, written and directed by an
uninspired, uneducated (when it comes to X-Men knowledge), and
ham-fisted ability. 

The only way this film could be good is if they had hired a different
director, different writers, and added about 30 minutes to the
proceedings. The film ends up imploding on itself and in the end making
no sense whatsoever. A dismal and disappointing end to a great
franchise. A true example of what could have been.
<|_=00=_|>
The final arc in the X-Men franchise has finally landed. Let me start
this review by saying that X2 was and is a hard act to follow. In my
humble opinion, it might be the best comic book movie ever made. Even
Bryan Singer would have had a hell of a time topping that bad boy. So
does X-Men 3 live up to the hype? The short answer is, of course, no.
There are some extremely fundamental problems with this film's script
which should have been addressed long before one bit of celluloid
started to roll.

The story opens with flashbacks of a young Jean being recruited to the
school by a young Xavier and Magneto. This scene lulled me into a
feeling that maybe this would be an awesome movie. The next scene, a
young Warren Worthington trying in vain to slice off his wings, also
works well. However, when his character amounts to little more than a
glorified cameo, this scene becomes completely pointless. We're led to
believe that this is a character we should care for, and then he gets
tossed out almost immediately. After the set up we are thrust into the
meat of the story. The X-Men are still reeling from Jean Grey's
sacrifice in X2 and are training a new group of muties to fill out the
leather uniforms. We get to see precious little of them working as a
team, however. I thought the point of a team story was to show how they
interact? Apparently, along with Halle Berry's upgraded role came the
stipulation that she can only share the screen with one mutant at a
time. Since most people are familiar with the plot line here's a
super-short rundown. Magneto and X-Men clash and a small war breaks
out. There's a mutant cure and a few members die. Boredom ensues. I've
never felt so utterly detached from a movie. It could have to do with
the overdone musical score, terrible dialog, or countless errors and
goofs. It's a movie that utterly ruins a perfectly viable franchise. I
felt pained after watching this.

WHAT WORKED- Multiple Man! This guy had like two minutes of total
screen time, but he ruled both of them. He's a cocky, sarcastic mutant
who is literally his own best friend. I learned more about him in two
lines than I did from Storm in three movies. - Iceman/Pyro. I've always
loved the way these two interact, from the first hint of rivalry in
X-Men to the museum scene in X2. My only complaint was that there is no
real resolution. Iceman head-butts Pyro, end of story. The entire fight
was in the trailer. If there had just been a few more seconds of
dialog, or perhaps a Pyro death scene, this would have been perfect. -
Beast (sometimes.) Kelsey Grammar did a fine job. I dug his look and
overall approach to Beast. The scene in which he meets Leech is very
well done. -Fastball Special. Any comic geek will tell you that this is
a classic comic book moment which is a joy to see in action.

WHAT DIDN'T WORK-Halle Berry. We get it, you're a star. Get over
yourself and share the stage with someone else. Miss Berry may be an
Oscar winner, but she also did Catwoman. In my opinion, two movies with
storm was enough, kick her ass out and bring back... -Cyclops. Hey,
here's an idea! Let's take the X-Men team leader and emotional anchor
of the phoenix storyline and kill him off in ten minutes so storm can
do more. Yeah, that worked real well. If his death had served a purpose
I wouldn't have minded. But it seemed to me that they were killing him
off just to punish James Marsden for doing Superman Returns.
-Juggernaut, Bitch! Wow, talk about misused. juggernaut is a cool
character and I love Vinnie Jones, but that is quite a miscast part.
And he spends most of the movie looking mad and making stupid
one-liners. And his big finish? Hitting his head on a wall! -Beast
(Mostly.) The hook for Beast in the movie is that he's conflicted. When
he first sees what Leech is capable of there is a beautiful moment
where we can see his conflict. Then, like nothing has happened, he
makes his choice and stands with the X-Men. That was wrapped up way too
easily.

ERRORS/PLOT HOLES -In X2 the phoenix entity was fiery and red when Jean
accessed it. In this one she just turns dead looking...how's that work?
- The X-Men fly from New York to San Fransisco very quickly. This is, I
guess, plausible because they have a super-sonic blackbird jet.
However, Angel shows up in the thick of the fight as well. We can
assume he wasn't on the jet because they didn't show him. Are we to
believe that with his little feather wings he can fly the same speed as
the blackbird? - Magneto is shown playing chess all by his lonesome in
the park at the conclusion of the movie. This plot hole was so huge I
didn't even pick up on it at first. Shouldn't he be, like, IN JAIL!?
They spend half the movie looking for him, then when the entire U.S.
army is only feet away from him, and he loses his power, he is somehow
able to slip away? **Here's the grand-daddy plot hole of them all**
-Jean has such a powerful mutation that she cannot control it. She
claims the only way to stop her is to die, as she is constantly begging
Logan for death. However, her power is a result of mutation and in the
movie they have rendered a cure for that. You see where I'm going with
this? Why don't you geniuses just cure her? That is the epitome of
crappy writing. How a plot hole that big even made it into a second
draft of the script is mind boggling.
<|_=00=_|>
There's not really much i want to say here, mainly because i cant be
bothered and partly because i might start to get angry.

To start of i want to say, Brett Ratner you should be ashamed of
yourself. I would also like to add that the actors in this film all did
fantastic jobs as they are all very talented but why they didn't run a
mile from this i do not no.

I spent my (boyfriends) hard earned money on going to see this film and
i thought it was going to be amazing because how can you go wrong with
X Men when there's so much to work with, the possibilities are endless
yet this film managed to destroy my hopes and dreams of finishing up
with something spectacular, instead you get a half assed job from
someone who seems to no nothing about the X Men.

Now i no that changes have to be made to certain things to make it more
suitable for the big screen or to tie in with the plot more, but there
seems to be no plot or point to this film ***SPOILER WARNING*** First
of all as many people have said, since when was juggernaut a mutant?
Despite the fact that Xavier and juggernaut are step brothers they
don't say a single word to each other or even make eye contact, hmmm,
its as if they don't know each other. Juggernaut has always hated and
wanted to destroy Xavier, so what happened here. Maybe juggernaut has
seen the error of his ways and will be a good bro from know on, but its
not very likely.

Second of all, you don't kill two of the MOST important characters,
along with other extremely important characters losing there powers
(though there is something to suggest that "The Cure" doesn't really
work). I really am just so angry at this guy.

Thirdly, why even bother to put put Jean Grey/Phoenix in this film??
She spent the whole film standing around doing NOTHING. She's supposed
to be this all powerful mutant goddess yet doesn't do anything. Why?
They could have made this film amazing if they actually did something
with Phoenix (and the other piles of characters that made random
appearances). Throughout the whole film i kept saying to myself
"Phoenix is gonna do something in a second and its gonna be amazing",
but sadly that moment never came, not even any flames or the slightest
connection with perhaps... a Phoenix, just nothingness, and then to
kill her in the end. I'm so confused and slightly distraught.

I know i said i would make it short, but I'm just getting a bit carried
away, but i'll try and finish up quickly.

Fourthly, where was night Crawler? Why was Angel in this film? He was
in it for all of two minutes yet in the trailer they make it seem as
though he is an important character to this film when in fact he does
nothing as well. Why has rouge never been developed in to the awesome
character she is? Instead she just whinges a bit more and takes "The
Cure" which shouldn't happen. Still no Gambit which was upsetting as he
is a favourite of mine, though i already knew about this before i
wasted my money.

Lastly i want to say that Bryan Singer did a great job with the first
two films. Brett Ratner has obviously decided that he wants to be
remembered and take credit for the x men films so he destroyed the
characters that Bryan Singer had built up and developed so well, and
then tried to build other characters up instead, as well as trying to
stick as many characters in as possible in 1 hour 40 minutes.

Well Brett Ratner, i certainly will remember you, but i can assure you
it wont be for bringing what started out so well to a great end.
<|_=00=_|>
Jean Grey kills Scott? So they are in love, she dies, he is falling to
pieces, she comes back to life, they kiss, then she kills him??? Why?
Just to get rid of him so she can have Wolverine? I thought she was a
medical doctor, so in addition to killing the guy even though she loves
him, she goes against all her medical training to kill him. Oh wait did
Ratner think he had a Hannibal Lector thing going? Okay so they wanted
to get rid of him, but then why does she kill the Professor? She
doesn't want him trying to "help" her okay, but why not just turn him
into a bloody mess, or knock him against the wall so he winds up in a
coma? Instead she turns him into confetti? What the heck was that? Then
after the mutants tear up the city, the president just changes his mind
and the mutants are okay again? To the point where the guy with wings
can just fly around in the park and no one even looks up? Some how I
don't think most the presidents we have had would just live and let
live. If I was a resident of San Francisco I wouldn't be too happy that
the terrorist who tore up the city where allowed to go on their merry
way. Was Ratner trying to suggest how Osama Bin Laden should have been
dealt with? Just kiss and make up? I don't understand it. I don't
understand why people could think this is a good movie.
