
From the majority of other comments written about this film, it would
seem that there are a lot of bitter, cynical people out there.

I watched this film last night with my wife and we both loved it - we
laughed a lot, and thought the 2 main characters perfectly complimented
each other - their chemistry was wonderful and utterly endearing, and
you actually gave a sh*t about what happened to them.

Maybe I'm a sucker for a good romantic comedy, but I'm astounded by the
negative comments posted on this site. Some posts criticise the
dialogue, but, well, isn't that just how people actually speak? I
generally do not give out lengthy monologues re: my emotional state,
and can appreciate a movie that deals in real language. It doesn't make
the film any less appealing or worthwhile.

Go and see it with an open mind and, if you have a heart, then you'll
love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps this film won't inspire the twenty-something folks at whom it
was marketed. They might not appreciate its message, after all, when
you're young, life stretches out before you like an eternity. But if
you're over 30 and haven't found that perfect person to share your life
with, it might really touch you... 

This is the most romantic movie I have seen in years. As a regular
armchair film critic who happens to love romantic comedies but finds
the quality of most to be sorely lacking, I usually start to gnaw away
at a film within the first five minutes. But A Lot Like Love
immediately embarks on a tortuous journey of love's most confounding
mileposts. The fireworks, the mystery, the seduction, the retreat... A
guy who wants to get "all his ducks in a line," and a gal who deals
with whatever happens to come her way, help each other loosen up their
respective rigid perspectives on how life should be lived.

The chemistry between Oliver and Emily percolates over a span of nearly
seven years but neither lets it come to a full boil lest it ruin their
plans. Kutcher and Peet each deliver endearing performances and
actually play against the urge to gratuitously combust making for just
the right emotional veracity and sexual tension to keep it real. No
"just add water" instant love here. These two take their time to fall
into the soup.

This film is certainly easy to look at what with the hip modern beauty
of both of its stars decorating every shot. The fly-on-the-wall
perspective of watching these two people awkwardly and trepidaciously
flirt with what might be, kept my attention rapt, and experiencing it
in the moment, I can honestly say that I did not know what was going to
happen next.

If anyone has ever had that "friend" that you've know for years, you
know you have feelings for them, appreciate their loyalty, and take
their bad with their good (because after all, you're "just friends"),
but have spent years keeping an eye out for something better, or just
not taken that "next step" because of geography, peer-pressure, or fear
of rejection, you will appreciate the honesty and sentiment of this
story.

You'll definitely get a refresher course in the fact that life is
indeed short and a lot can happen when you're not paying attention.
Enjoy every moment you can, and take some risks or you'll be looking
back on an awful lot of regret. A Lot Like Love is funny and sad,
playful and poignant, and was over before I wanted it to be. For me,
this movie is a lot like life.
<|_=00=_|>
Gosh darn it, I liked it. Did I think it was a cinematic masterpiece -
definitely not, but who really expected that anyway? What we have here
is a cutesy formulaic light romantic comedy. I laughed and walked out
with a smile. Will I remember it in a year, probably not, but thats OK.
I'd also like to comment on a post I read here, where the writer was
'distressed' by the characters in this film displaying VERY antiquated
and unhip desires - like, dare I say it... wanting to secure a
successful career, find love, and get married by age 30. Wow, can you
imagine people nowadays feeling that way?! I personally find it
'distressing' to think that we live in a society where having
traditional desires is made to be odd. I'm in my 20s and know many
other people who are looking for these same things. So go figure, I
actually found this perspective in a modern film refreshing.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably the best romantic comedy my wife and I have seen in twenty
years. Although we have always been a fan of Ashton Kutcher, this movie
separates from his previous achievements. His chemistry with Amanda
Peete is more believable than any other actress he has performed with.
You actually fall into to the story as someone you might have known in
life, whether it was a friend or someone that remains in your thoughts
from years past.

To knick-pick the movie on plot or commercialization is to miss the
writers passion for what he/she is trying to convey. Take the movie for
what it is at face value and that is to travel through their
relationship in all the what-if's, all the heart breaks and joys. If
you let yourself do that you will enjoy a great story with someone you
at one time shared the same passion with. -Curt & Tam
<|_=00=_|>
Strike three was that he was born under the astrological sign of
cancer. Strike two was that he didn't play the guitar. But what was
strike one? In baseball, you have three strikes and you're out. They
wanted to play the game that way, but could never seem to never figure
it out. 

Over the course of seven years, you fall in love watching Oliver
"Ollie" Martin (Ashton Kutcher) and Emily Friehl (Amanda Peet)'s
acquaintanceship turn into a friendship then turn into a relationship.
But whenever something remotely beings to happens, a disturbance occurs
and we are left at step one. Will their feelings overcome it all or
will it all fall apart like each time they tried through the past seven
years? 

Direction under Nigel Cole won't tell you much. He has directed very
few films including Calendar Girls in 2003 and Saving Grace in 2000.
Periodically, he has directed television series between 1982 and 1998. 

Cinematographically, this was well done and interesting. Camera
movement was consistent and advanced. I came across great angles with
nice transitions, making the movie more enjoyable. 

The acting in this movie was stunningly one of the strongest features
of it all. The interaction between Kutcher (The Butterfly Effect, Guess
Who) and Peet(Identity, The Whole Nine Yards) was unexpected and almost
mind-blowing. As for all of you chemistry students out there, for the
record, Kutcher and Peet had excellent chemistry between the two. It
would be very difficult to co-star with Kutcher (and pull it off) as
well as Peet did. The appearances of other big names really supported
the acting foundation. The best friends, Kathryn Hahn (Anchorman: The
Legend of Ron Burgundy, How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days) and Kal
Penn(Harold & Kumar Go To White Castle, Malibu's Most Wanted) were
great supporting actors. Also, Ali Larter (Final Destination), Taryn
Manning (Crossroads), Gabriel Mann (The Life of David Gale) and Jeremy
Sisto (Clueless) added their unique spice to the movie. 

On a more negative note, there were times when I found myself thinking
"What are the odds?" It's not everyday that events like this happen to
average Joe.I know, I know it's a movie, but some things in this motion
picture were a little unrealistic and immaturefor a movie. In
addition, some of the writing, though in a "normal" sense for everyday
life, seemed wrong for the occasion or event at the time. For what it
was worth, all together, it was shaping. 

I feel as though the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA)
stretched the rope on this rating. This PG-13 seemed dangerously close
to a higher rating. There was sexual content, nudity and language with
a significant amount of drinking and drug content. Although the rating
was suitable, it was a higher level of PG-13. 

Like many other teeny bopper chick flicks, this movie can be compared
to a group of other movies. If you liked Whatever It Takes, Can't
Hardly Wait, Spanglish or Brown Sugar, you may become attached to this
motion picture. 

If you are looking for a "great date movie," I would recommend this
film. It has proportioned humor, romance and drama for any teenage
audience. The guys will like it, too! If you've ever experienced
loveor some form of lovethis movie will particularly strike you.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why this movie is so underrated...I think it reflects
perfectly how love could be in the real life. Maybe some people prefer
depth monologues...but those things only happen in the mind of a
writer.I Think the chemistry between the two main characters is
awesome...I love Amanda Peet and Ashton Kutcher is very funny. Let's
see those kind of movies without prejudices. I don't have anything else
to say really...but if I don't make 10 lines i can post my
message..So...Maybe, I can't talk about the weather...a nice
conversation for lift times....Sunny here, but with some nasty
clouds...that's OK? Good night fellas!
<|_=00=_|>
A lot like love deals with issues in real life. There are many people
out there who feel pressured with the "master plan" of having a career,
a wife/ husband by the age of 30. The movie is well acted by Amanda
Peet not to mention she looks stunning, and though Ashton Kutcher does
overact some scenes he delivers a believable character. The problem
with the movie was that you don't have enough time to really bond with
the characters, and even though this isn't an amazing movie, it is
still a good movie and i enjoyed it. The songs in the movie really did
help with the mood. This movie did have much more potential but the
writing wasn't as good as it could have been. My opinion is this movie
is more for romantics, but its still good for the other people too.
<|_=00=_|>
I had anticipated this movie as my generation's "When Harry Met Sally",
as that is one of my favorite movies and "A Lot Like Love" seemed to be
it! I do like Ashton Kutcher, especially when paired with above average
actresses like Amanda Peet.

The movie wasn't horrible, it was cute, had a few heartfelt themes,
wonderful chemistry, good performances and a story that should have
promised two characters that you would never forget. Unfortunately, the
plot didn't hold up, and in all, if the script had been better, all of
these things could have been accomplished. It doesn't let you become as
close to the characters as you'd like, no depth is depicted, and all
though a few cutting edge dialogue scenes, it fails big time in the
sharp conversational aspects that "When Harry Met Sally" thrives on.

It was disappointing, underwhelming, but if you feel you can relate to
the characters, see it for a relaxing, think-free trip to the theater,
as I did enjoy Ashton, perhaps out of my own bias, but he did what he
could with the material and will make you fall in love with him.
<|_=00=_|>
It is true that the way this movie was shot it did seem similar to the
Billy Crstal and Meg Ryan romantic comedy. But everyone forgets that
Hollywood rips everything off all the time. This film manages to keep
the watcher interested and makes you feel for it's characters.

Ashton Kutcher is usually very unwatchable, but in this picture he
helps create a shy and ambitious lead in Oliver Martin. Oliver is a
dreamer who puts all his energy in creating a internet company to sell
diapers. Then there's the always animated Amanda Peet as Emily. Emily
from early on tries to push Oliver to explore life. Ashton and Amanda
make a great team on camera and also have great chemistry when it comes
to the more emotional parts of the movie.

Overall "A Lot Like Love" is a great romantic comedy with real heart
and is really worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I think that "A lot like love" is a great movie for a person aged like
me. I think that the story is great. I have to say that i would like
something like this to happen to me because it's really incredible.
It's a great movie for you and your girl in the cinema. This movie made
Ashton Kutcher one of my favorite actors. He's such a good actor for
teenage movies. There's many good scenes in the movie.The best one is
when Ashton is playing that Bon Jovi song on the guitar.No doubt about
that.I liked that song so much,i even placed it on my computer.I wanted
to say that this movie has a great soundtrack.I would recommend it to
every person that wants a great movie for him and a girl.
