
to be honest, the first scene sums this movie up, it's a punch in the
face. you have to have a very dry sense of humor to like this movie, i
don't think it was made for the usual "american" market. our culture is
geared toward in your face comedy, like old school or dodge ball, where
subtle darker humor about everyday life gets lost. husbands leave
wives, people get fired from terrible jobs, and in general have crappy
lives. but it is up to us to enjoy what we have, and finding the
strength to keep on going no matter what, and this movie is like that.
it has an all star cast, from Colin Farrell to Colm Meany, Shirley
Henderson to Cillian Murphy they all shine like the stars they are.
<|_=00=_|>
You may develop a slight case of whiplash while watching
"Intermission," but it will be a small enough price to pay for the
pleasure of the experience. This is a fascinating film that ingeniously
weaves together a myriad of overlapping stories whose common thread is
life among the Irish working class.

The screenplay focuses on a group of seemingly unrelated people whose
lives crisscross and intersect in so well crafted a way that, as the
story develops, a fully connected narrative soon emerges. Through a
carefully thought-out structure and pattern, writer Mark O'Rowe and
director John Crowley create order out of seeming disorder, and the
overlaps never feel pre-fabricated or contrived - until the end that
is, and then the contrivance is used for comic effect. The overarching
theme of the piece is an examination of the subtleties and complexities
that make up human interactions and human relationships. There are
people here from all walks of life, yet they are basically united in
their desire for love, commitment and acceptance from their fellow man.
A few of them veer towards the criminal and/or violent side of life but
most are just ordinary Joes (and Janes) trying to make the best of the
lives they've been handed. This is one of those films in which the good
people triumph over their failings, the not-so-good ones get the chance
to make things right, and the irredeemable ones get their richly
deserved comeuppance in the end.

Colin Farrell, playing a violent, two-bit hoodlum, is the only "name"
member of the cast, but the film boasts a whole gallery of fine actors
and actresses who deliver heartfelt, winning performances. The film is
filled with humor and sentiment and just enough action and violence to
keep the whole thing contemporary and cutting edge (with the usual nod
to "Pulp Fiction," of course).

The real joy of the film lies in putting yourself in the hands of the
filmmakers and letting them take you wherever it is they want you to
go. The trip, I promise you, will be a rewarding one.

And you'll barely feel that whiplash.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. I laughed and laughed. It held me
intrigued and wasn't a chore to watch or follow the story line. This
movie dared to do what many others don't - very un-PC in places. Good
on them for making such a refreshing movie. Sure we've seen many
elements of the story line before and could anticipate many of the
outcomes but I don't think this detracted from it at all. Great to see
so many well known actors in different roles too. And demonstrating
their acting talent by creating believable Irish accents. I did wonder
if Colin Farrell had to practice his mother tongue after being in the
USA for so long - seems he did OK though. I would definitely watch this
again and recommend it whole heartedly to others.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, if you loved "Crash" (no not the David Cronenberg version, but
the Academy Award winning Paul Haggis film) you'll love this Irish
version of everyday Irish folk in everyday life, living everyday life
interchanging and interacting, kind of like a Irish "six degrees"
thing. Speaking of acting, what acting...Everyone is so "real" almost
like a documentary, Oscars for All! Great camera work, it just flows so
well together, great cast nice to see Scottish actress Kelly MacDonald
(Trainspotting, Gosford Park) again. Colin Ferrell is as intense as
always, he is such fun to watch he's a great "on-the-edge-of-your-seat"
actor. So if you enjoy great acting, a good story with some twists and
turns check this one out. Other great Irish films are: Omagh(2004),
Veronica Guerin(2003), Bloody Sunday(2002), The Commitments(1991),
Waking Ned Divine(1998) and The Field(1990).

Slaint√©
<|_=00=_|>
Intermission is one of those modern multiple storyline films in which a
group of characters lives intertwine. And, as per usual involves a car
crash. These factors tie it to the likes of Magnolia, Amores Perros, 21
Grams, Crash, 13 Conversations About One Thing and many more films I'm
sure that escape me at this point. So what does Intermission have to
offer that these films do not? For one, the acting talent involved is
pretty much a who's who of Irish (and Scottish) actors at present.
Colin Farrell, Cillian Murphy, Colm Meaney, Shirley Henderson and Kelly
Macdonald. The other main factor in the quality of Intermission lies in
it's script, which comes across as funny, engaging and despite the
comparisons made above is fairly original. It is most definitely a
lighter affair than some of it's contemporary rivals listed above, and
though not groundbreaking by any means, is a well-made and engaging
piece of work.
<|_=00=_|>
Frankly, too many IMDb critics are expecting "films" instead of movies, 
because viewed simply on its entertainment merits, "Intermission" was 
one of the better movies of 2003.

There is no "cinematic" brilliance here. It's not a pretty thing played 
by thespians to pander to Cannes film snobs, but the movie is funny as 
hell.

Colin Farrell fans might be disappointed, because he's really just a 
bit player, though a quite good one. But Colm Meaney is absurdly good, 
and the movie as a whole is prepossessing and original. Quality 
work - Think Guy Ritchie meets "The Full Monty."
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is great bc the actors don't seem like their acting, it's
like you are really watching these people. Like the characters are
real. Soooo funny too, if you like dark humor. I agree with one of the
other comments, the beginning is awesome and the rest of the movie
pretty much keeps up. Great action flick as well as have an intelligent
dialog between the characters. The directing is amazing as well. One of
the things I really liked about this movie is that it touches on so
many different topics but doesn't beat any of them like a dead horse.
It's very much like real life stuff that happens everyday. I'm American
and watched it with an Aussie, so yeah, people outside the Irish
community can still appreciate this fehluuummm (film).
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed "Intermission" which is set in Dublin. It has a great
cast who play lovable losers who take themselves too seriously. Their
antics make for a funny and entertaining film. There are a number of
different plot lines but the characters are all connected somehow. In
some ways it's like a comic version of Babel. Dubliners seem to have a
limited vocabulary and every adjective seems to begin with F, so it's
not a family film. But it's fast paced and should make you laugh. 

The film starts when John (Cillian Murphy) decides he needs a break or
intermission from Deirdre, (Kelly Macdonald) his girlfriend. She then
makes John jealous by going off with Sam (Michael McElhatton), a
married bank manager. Sam's wife of 14 years (Deirdre O'Kane) having
been dumped embarks on a program of revenge, including sex with John's
best friend, Oscar (David Wilmot). Jerry (Colm Meaney) is a police
detective who likes beating people up and listening to Celtic music. He
convinces a TV producer to make a documentary about his life. John and
Oscar both work in a supermarket where their boss Mr. Henderson (Owen
Roe) is a pompous twit. Deirdre's sister Sally (Shirley Henderson) was
recently humiliated by a former boyfriend and sports a impressive
mustache. Lehiff (Colin Farrell) is a thug who wants to rob Sam's bank.
He is a friend of John and together they plan a bank robbery. Finally,
there's Mick (Brian F. O'Byrne), a bus driver who is fired from his job
and joins the gang. It's all good fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm quite surprised that this film hasn't got a higher rating. This
really is a gem of movie. Well-written, well-acted, witty and brutally
black dialog makes this a modern Irish classic. The acting is
excellent. Colin Farrell is well cast as the stereotypical Dublin
scumbag which he seems to have great fun portraying. Cillian Murphy is
great as the lovelorn rogue John while David Wilmot steals the show
from his more famous co-stars as unlucky in love Oscar. Kelly
MacDonald, Shirley Henderson, Deirde O' Kane and Colm Meany add more
weight to a highly talented cast.

The film follows the lives of several different characters in
contemporary Dublin and how their lives intersect. The violence and
coarse language is matched by the tender and honest scenes. The fast
pace of the movie holds the viewers attention fantastically well as we
follow the lives of these highly likable characters(well maybe not
Farrell but he is still compelling and hilarious to watch) while they
search for love, happiness and the answers to life's complicated
dilemmas. A true original. Even though its not much of an achievement,
by far the best Irish movie ever made. Perfect stories. Perfect
writing. Perfect characters. Perfect acting. Perfect film.
<|_=00=_|>
Intermission starts with a bang and just keeps going, following the
intertwined lives of its characters who are in search of either love,
money or fame. This darkly funny Irish film speeds along, delivering
numerous memorable scenes and a variety of interesting characters. 

The dialog is sharp and the story carefully laid out. The direction
shows a true love a film making - a desire to make something lively and
entertaining and funny, yet truthful and touching.

Despite the multiple story lines and players, Intermission holds
together, arriving at its final destination at just the right time. Not
an ounce of fat to be found here, this is a well-crafted film.
