
I almost missed this one because I was turned off by the commercials
and previews, with their emphasis on the silliest parts (the dancing
donkey, etc.). What a mistake that would have been -- I'd have missed
one of the driest, archest, loveliest scripts in years. Emma Thompson
can do more with a slightly quirked eyebrow and a quiet "Hm" than most
actresses can with an entire Shakespearean soliloquy. The whole cast,
children and adults alike, is pretty near perfect, some of the best of
the British theater even in the tiniest roles (Derek Jacobi, Imelda
Staunton et al). The kids are tough and tart, without a simper in the
lot, unlike most US child stars.

Don't let the trailers keep you away -- this is well worth seeing, sort
of what Lemony Snicket should have been but wasn't.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the film this morning at a Sunday Times preview and I'd like to
think that more than a few of you will be eating your words when you
see the finished product. It's beautifully put together, with lots of
humour, the attractive Colin Firth and many superb performances. Celia
Imrie creates a colourful character in Mrs Quickly, Imelda Staunton is
fantastic as the cook (Mrs Blatherwick) and Angela Lansbury is expertly
cast as Aunt Adelaide (despite the feathered dress making her look like
a turkey!) As guessed at on another thread, Nanny McPhee does teach the
children - that manners matter, you should be responsible for your
actions, and that actions have consequences. It isn't dumbed down,
there's certainly no 'dopey dialogue' - and there's also no annoying
Americanisms as beset Charlie & the Chocolate Factory.

At first glance, you could imagine Emma Thompson giving a very over the
top performance, given the warts, over-sized nose and tooth. Instead
she gives a careful and considered performance - everything in the
right measure.

Enjoy Nanny McPhee for what it is - a large dose of magical escapism
with plenty of laughs for good measure. A few rude words and food
fights to keep the kids (and parents) happy, oh and a dancing donkey,
but overall a film that is lots of fun. Can't wait for the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film today with my daughter, who is 31 and her 5
year old daughter and it's a long time since I saw such a truly
wonderful film in the cinema.(and I go often)

I went as a typical granny, ready to enjoy the day out for what it was,
but I said to my daughter at the end that if it had been a DVD, I would
happily have watched it again right away.

Apart from the brilliant performances from all involved, this was a
beautifully filmed piece of work. The staging and vivid colours used
were absolutely perfect and each set was full of things to catch your
eye.

I've always liked Emma Thompson, but not in a 'big fan' kind of way,
but I must say she gave one of the most understated, beautifully
controlled performances, and her wonderful character was magically
endearing within moments of her arrival on the scene.

I thought hard before giving a rating for this film, but couldn't find
one thing to stop it from being absolutely perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
This definitely has to be one of the best films of the year and is
something that can be enjoyed by the whole family, from the wee tot to
grandparents. Based upon the 'Nurse Matilda' books by Christianna
Brand, the film revolves around seven motherless children who have
frightened off seventeen nannies much to their over-wrought father's
dismay. The children are unruly and their father has his own stresses
of desperately searching for a wife before his mean-spirited great aunt
cuts off his allowance and everything is falling apart at the
seams...until Nanny McPhee enters the house to sort things out. Think
of 'Mary Poppins' if Roald Dahl had written the character and you have
an idea of what happens next!

The best thing about this film is that while it will appeal to
children, it doesn't dumb down or indulge in cavity-inducing sweetness
that you tend to see in films produced by Hollywood. There is much
humour and fun to be had but there is also a darker tone, what with
children being threatened with the Work House and their father speaking
to corpses!

The actors are all excellent. Colin Firth was perfect as this dithering
man who may be meek but will do anything for his children and Emma
Thompson is totally unrecognisable as the lead character of Nanny
McPhee (she also deserves much recognition her skills in script-writing
this film). But it's Angela Lansbury, as snooty Great Aunt Adelaide,
who steals the show with the way she spends much of the film with such
a sour face that could curdle the milk! The children also deserve much
praise, especially when you consider most of them are not only very
young but had never acted before. I certainly hope to see more of young
Raphael Coleman, who played the middle son Eric, in future films as he
totally threw himself into his character and was the most engaging of
the children.

I'd highly recommend this to people who enjoyed 'Charlie and the
Chocolate Factory' (both old and new versions) and 'Matilda'. I doubt
many will be disappointed with this film!
<|_=00=_|>
I took my almost-4-year-old and her two cousins (age 3 and 6) to see
this and we all had a wonderful time! The cast was outstanding - Colin
Firth marvelously befuddled, Angela Lansbury wonderfully austere, Emma
Thompson gruesomely wise and endearing, and all of the children sweet
and mischievous without being cloying and horrible. It was clever and
never "dumbed down" as some movies peddled as family fare are these
days. This film was both funny and touching. The scenery and costumes
were also wonderful to look at -lovely use of color. Some reviews have
said that the movie tries too hard to appeal to adults, but I disagree.
If preschoolers can enjoy it, most children will. I highly recommend it
to audiences of all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
Seven children, seventeen nannies. Poor dad Cedric Brown (Colin Firth)
has all but given up. Suddenly, enter Nanny McPhee (Emma Thompson)
using her magical powers (both emotionally and literally) to kick them
into shape. Remind you of something? I'd be concerned if it didn't. But
thankfully, as Nanny McPhee progresses, it twists and turns in such a
pleasant fashion that by the end, you'll be wondering 'Mary who?'
Adapted for the screen by Thompson herself, this is a fun and inventive
kids film that is guaranteed to make you smile. Firth does his usually
stuttering British man shtick, but given he has little to do, makes the
most of it. Imedla Staunton, Angela Lansbury and Celia Imrie ham it up
shamelessly and are loads of fun. But most of the attention should be
directed towards Thompson, an ugly but constantly entertaining lead.

The art direction, visual effects and Patrick Doyle's fabulous score
all soar in a confident over-the-top direction, as is the tone of the
film. The score, by-the-books though it may be, is perfect and bodes
well for Doyle's work on the new Harry Potter movie.

Rather than basing its entirety on the naughty kids storyline, McPhee
jumps from plot point to plot point, stuffing a whole lotta characters
and twists into it's 97 minute running time. Thanks to this, Thompson's
endearing loveliness and a cute array of kids (lead by Thomas Sangster,
the kid from Love Actually), Nanny McPhee emerges triumphant as one of
the better kids movies in recent memory, mostly because the adults will
love it too. And anyone who isn't enchanted by the magical ending has
to have a stone for a heart.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was specially shown on January 17, 2006 in Indianapolis. I am
one of the judges for the Heartland Film Festival that screens films
for their Truly Moving Picture Award. A Truly Moving Picture "explores
the human journey by artistically expressing hope and respect for the
positive values of life." Heartland gave that award to this film.

There are seven rather naughty children who have creatively and
gleefully drove away seventeen nannies who tried to tame them. But they
have met their match with the hideous looking Nanny McPhee played by
Emma Thompson. Thompson wrote the screenplay and with great make-up
plays Nanny McPhee. Thompson is a consummate artist and is the only
person ever to have won an Oscar for writing ("Sense and Sensibility")
and also to have won an Oscar for acting ("Howard's End). Thompson
brings class to this Victorian-era, dark, fractured fairy tale.

This is a laugh out loud farce. And young people and old can share in
the humor. While the film is designed for kids, the adult accompanying
the child will enjoy it almost as much.

There are positive messages, for parent and child, throughout the film.
The seven children are taught to listen and to be courteous and to be
responsible and to think through things for themselves, and you watch
their behavior evolve. In the beginning, goodness looks ugly to the
children. But as they learn what goodness truly is, it takes on a
beautiful appearance.

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my children, ages 8 and 5, to see the movie over the weekend and
I'd have to say that I enjoyed it every bit as much as they did. The
character portrayed by Emma Thompson was simply wonderful. Even though
she used her "magic" to get desired results from the children, all one
had to do was look into her eyes and see the genuine compassion she
felt for the children. The whole scenario with the fairy tale books and
logic behind WHY the children misbehaved to much made them not nearly
as bratty as one would have expected from such behavior and actually
made me feel a bit sorry for them so they became almost likable in
their attitudes. They weren't just "brats" for the sake of being brats;
they had a genuine fear of losing their father which, ultimately would
have happened had he married that harpie Mrs. Quimby.

My children absolutely loved the whole barnyard animal scene,
especially the dancing donkey. Second to that was the food fight at the
wedding. I found this movie to be appropriate for children of ALL ages
and simply enjoyable for myself as well. I highly recommend this
movie!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has a wonderful quality that would bring any distant family
together. My children and I loved watching it together. It's nice to
have a movie finally come out that everyone can enjoy. I highly
recommend seeing it. Emma Thompson is so endearing. Colin Firth is such
a lost soul trying to avoid everything and everyone around him. Angela
Landsbury is so over the top, but very funny. Together they make such
an interesting trio. The love, the comedy, the magic, and the
unbelievable happy ending make it more than just a fairy tale, they
make it a story that makes you wish that it was all happening to you.
For children, it sets their minds imaginations into over-drive. It
sends them to a place that lets their minds run free to believe in
everything on the big screen in front of them. For just an adult, I
would say, it would be less special, as apposed to an adult who has
children to watch get engaged with this magical movie.
<|_=00=_|>
What a breath of fresh air. I enjoyed Lemony Snicket's A Series of
Unfortunate Events and this film's over-the-top storytelling reminded
me of what I thought was lacking in that other film. There was much joy
to be had. It really was a lot of fun and quite the breath of fresh air
for children's movies since the slump between The Incredibles and now.

The actors are perfectly cast. So often children can only distract from
a movie with very few turning in believable performances. Not the case
here.

My only regret was the missed opportunity for the perfect
tag-line...maybe they's take my idea for the DVD promotion...

"You can't handle the tooth!"
