
House Of Wax is pretty much everything I like in a horror movie. The
killers were creepy and freaky but not too over the top. The murders
were genuine and realistic looking while the cinematography was great!
Carly Jones (Elisha Cuthbert) and her boyfriend, Wade (Jared Padalecki)
are going to the big college football game with a group of friends and
her brother, Nick (Chad Michael Murray). Along the way, they get tired
and look for a place to camp out for awhile and get some rest. As you
can imagine, car problems end up keeping them from getting out of their
hidden campsite. Carly and Wade head for the small town of Ambrose,
which seems strange on the surface.

This is where the real action begins. While I admit that the movie took
it's time getting to the good stuff, it was well worth the wait. The
special effects department have outdone themselves. Especially when it
comes to the house made of wax, itself.

I was very surprised by the low rating given by the IMDb users. I
should not be, but I was. Do not be fooled. If you are into horror
movies, then this one comes highly recommended. In fact, it has
inspired me to see the original and will do so first chance I get. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of people are flaming this film for the presence of Paris Hilton,
but this is not a fair reason to object to the movie. The reality is
that Paris has a fairly minimal part, she spends the vast majority of
the movie off screen. The film also makes fun of her on several
occasions, usually involving a camera and at least once in night
vision. For those who enjoy Paris Hiltons stage presence, this may be a
movie to see at home when its released on video, because at the
screening I was at, we all laughed at her misfortunes through the movie
and she is portrayed as a "woman of questionable values".

The movie itself was pretty good (unlike the recent flood of weak
horror flicks), it has everything a good horror should; a creepy
villain, excessive violence, acts which make that average person
cringe...this movie hit all the bases. It is definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure why this film is averaging so low on IMDb when it's
absolutely everything you could ever want in a horror film. This is the
definition of being a horror film. I consider myself to be a big horror
fan and I must say that this house delivers the goods. House of wax Is
the story of a group of college kids on their way to a football game
whom decide to camp out for the night and have a run in with a local
weirdo. Upon waking the next morning they make a gruesome discovery and
decide to go into town for a broken car part. The town is creepy and
I'm just gonna stop there. Because thats when the truly gruesome mayhem
begins. trust me when I say if your looking for a horror film go see
this you will love it. It's wonderfully diabolical and inventive with
it's killing scenes, the story is interesting and the characters are
decently drawn with the actors giving them gobs of personality. Paris
Hilton included whom does quite well with her part. the film lies a
little on the shallow side but it's so much fun and who cares. This
movie should eat up the box office and all horror fans should have part
in it. Go see House of Wax the film that features skin being peeled,
super glued lips, dead animal carcasses, hot wax sprayed on a still
living person, a finger being cut off, a decapitation, a pole through
the head and much more. I was lucky enough to witness this film at the
Tribeca premiere and all the actors were on hand to promote the film.
And boy do they have something to be proud of House of wax is the
scariest roller coater ride of the year! 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I do not think I am alone when I say that 2005 has not been
particularly kind to the horror genre. While "Cursed", "Hide and Seek",
"The Ring Two", and "The Amityville Horror" all showed glimpses of
interest and potential, there have been more misses than hits. For
proof, see: "White Noise", "Boogeyman", "The Jacket", "Mindhunters",
and "Alone in the Dark". Imagine my surprise when "House of Wax",
tightly written by siblings Chad and Carey Hayes, turned out to be...
well, a surprise.

Carly Jones (Elisha Cuthbert) is a young woman, traveling with her
trouble-making brother, Nick (Chad Michael Murray), and boyfriend, Wade
(Jared Padalecki). They are, along with Paige (Paris Hilton), Blake
(Robert Ri'chard), and Dalton (Jon Abrahams), hoping to score tickets
to the final football game of the season. Along the way, they run into
some car trouble, and are forced to enter a desolate town where nothing
is what it appears to be.

Upon hearing of this, a remake of the classic Vincent Price B-movie, I
rolled my eyes. I did not even want to think about what disaster
freshman director Jaume Serra had cooked up for his audience. In a time
when most high-profile horror films are disappointments, latent with
bad writing, static direction, and amateur acting, I consider myself
lucky that Serra and the Hayes brothers took it upon themselves to make
a good, old-fashioned, spook fest. Unlike the disappointments that I
named before, this flick pulls no punches, and uses every cinematic
trick in the book to give everyone exactly what they came for.

I am happy that the Hayes' actually took the time and effort to create
likable and believable characters, thus making the events that much
more urgent. It also gives the young actors portraying them something
grip on. As she did in "The Girl Next Door", Elisha Cuthbert proves to
audiences what a skilled actress she really is. In the 2003 remake of
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre", Jessica Biel silenced naysayers by
delivering a raw and emotional performance, one that put the viewer
right there with her. Here, Cuthbert does the same. Chad Michael Murray
("A Cinderella Story"), in one of his first more mature roles, is no
slacker as Nick. Murray exudes charisma and a hard edge, as well as
some impressive athleticism on top of it. Murray and Cuthbert gel
perfectly, and have tangible, familial chemistry.

More so than anything else, the press and the American public have made
a field day about Paris Hilton's major acting debut. As I expected,
Hilton does not embarrass herself. In fact, she is just as good as
anyone else in the movie (do with that what you will). Like Cuthbert
and Murray, Hilton has screen presence. She is sexy and playful. I
cannot think one of reason why she's gotten the worst of the film's
harsh reception, other than they are simply picking on her. Jared
Padalecki (TV's 'Gilmore Girls') memorably manages to overcome his
underwritten role. Robert Ri'chard (TV's 'Cousin Skeeter') and Jon
Abrahams ("Meet the Parents") do not have much to work with, but get
the job done. With only one scene, Damon Herriman ("Soar") makes an
unforgettable impression, and his presence hangs over the rest of the
film. Finally, Brian Van Holt ("Basic") is superb and threatening in a
dual role.

Once more, kudos must go to the screenwriters for avoiding clich√©s
whenever possible. Despite popular opinion, "House of Wax" is quite
unpredictable for a majority of its running time. Take this for
example: It seems as if the killer is down for the count and Carly
bends down to retrieve something from his pockets. What do you expect
to happen? See the movie, and you will understand what I mean. It is
also refreshing to see a horror film in which the characters show even
a modicum of good sense.

Unlike most horror scores, John Ottman's exhilarating work never
distracts. However, as with Dark Castle's other releases, the visual
aspects of "Wax" are award-worthy, and lift the film above its genre
trappings. The talents of cinematographer Stephen F. Windon, production
designer Graham Walker, art director Nicholas McCallum, and editor Joel
Negron highlight the ghoulish imagery. Speaking of imagery, I believe
that the gore hounds will be thrilled with the many makeup effects and
tricks in store here. Each death scene is more stomach churning than
the last. Considering his past in music videos and commercials, it is
obvious that Jaume Serra has a great eye for style. His "in-your-face"
approach is a great asset to this film's success. Just when you think
the camera will turn away, it does not. He is also particularly good a
building thick layers of dread and atmosphere. One standout shot is our
introduction to the killer, as he slowly emerges from a trap door.

In a case like this, I would usually admit when I am in the minority
(Shut up, okay? I liked "House of 1000 Corpses"!). In this case, I
firmly that the detractors have gotten it wrong. I am not sure why
people are so hard on this film, considering it's much better than
recent genre entries. Maybe they're afraid to admit that a horror flick
starring Paris Hilton could possibly be worth watching... Who knows?
This is a horror film, and a commendably stylish and effective one at
that. As a lifelong horror fan, all I can say is that I thoroughly
enjoyed "House of Wax", in all of its lurid and sadistic glory. I
safely consider it a great accomplishment in modern horror, as well as
(along with "Sin City") the first completely satisfying release of
2005.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a sneak preview of this Tuesday night with a group of friends and
we had a blast! After seeing sneak peaks for BOOGEYMAN (Horrible! 3/10)
and Amityville Remake (so-so 6/10) I enjoyed this a lot more! As seen
in the trailer, one knock I had was believing that a whole town could
be "forgotten" but this is a cheesy popcorn horror movie so I accept it
for what it is.

My only major complaint is I assumed Paris Hilton would touch wax or
get dipped etc. and moan "that's hot" but they didn't do that (how
could they resist???).

There is NO nudity from the 2 girls although Paris looks great in her
lingerie! I'm surprised they didn't put a 3rd "hot token victim" in the
movie for some needless nudity which is the norm for this type of
flick! I won't list any death or plot spoilers BUT I will say that
Paris & Eliza both get roughed up good! 

The characters are developed decently and are somewhat likable (not
like Cabin Fever where you wanted them to die) and the movie has a
decent pace although nothing happens in the 1st 30 minutes like most
horror films.

I give it a 8/10 as it delivered good scares and gore and I had low
expectations going into it. If you go with some friends that like
cheesy horror movies you'll have a good time.

Noah
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting to much of this movie when I went into the theater
but I had been waiting for it for many years. To sum it up, it was
pretty damn good! Chad Michael Murray was pretty good, I thought he was
going to be another Chris Flynn from Wrong Turn but I was wrong. Elisha
Cuthbert was also good but the best performance has to go to Brian Van
Holt. He played the bad guy too well, I mean he was sick, sadistic, and
very cruel. The back story between the brothers was good, plus I liked
how no killings took place until about 40 minutes into the film. It
gave you time to pick the character you wanted to see live and the one
you wanted to see die. Jon Abrahams was pretty good as the goofy best
bud of CMM. I liked how Chad kind of cried when he found him dead, it
was better then just him being like, "Whatever, my buddy is dead, who
cares". It showed how he really cared. So overall, this was a darn god
slasher with some great effects. Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
While HOUSE OF WAX will never be mistaken for Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE
or HALLOWEEN, it does try and ultimately succeed in being a worthy
addition to quality horror film making. There is enough tension and
enough implied gore in here to please the young audience of today and
there is also enough explicit gore to please some of the purists of
yesterday. Overall, it is quite a well done film that should do okay on
DVD.

Six kids on the way to a football game get stranded in a DELIVERANCE
like setting and what ensues actually looks like it may have been taken
out a discarded Deilverance sequel and the backwoods hicks seem to
taunt the group. Eventually the group has to break up and half of them
head into the desolate town to get some car parts. The other half of
the group stays behind at camp and this sets up the second half of the
film.

House of Wax has many strengths. The first is that it is blessed with a
very likable cast. Paris Hilton is fine in her role but she is far from
the focal point. Chad Michael Murray, Elisabeth Cuthbert and Brian Van
Holt are three very charismatic actors and their presence in the film
adds some panache, some credibility and some flair. I had never really
heard of Chad Michael Murray, only that he was a pin-up type teen
heartthrob. But he has a presence to him. He imbues an intangible to
him that seems to translate into his performance. He is instantly
likable and he possesses a strong character trait. I enjoyed his
performance much more than I figured I would and when he was on screen,
the film flowed.

The question now becomes, "Is this film a worthy horror film?" And the
answer to that is a resounding YES. As I mentioned off the top, it is
not in the same class a NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET or LAST HOUSE ON THE
LEFT, or even THE RING, but it is relatively tense, quite graphic and
there are some very inventive death scenes. This is not the HOUSE OF
WAX that your parents told you about. Vincent Price is nowhere to be
seen and when you start seeing fingers being cut off and hot wax
covering comatose bodies, you realize this film is a little on the
edge.

I'd like to see an uncut director's X rated version. I bet there is one
out there somewhere that would be much more violent than this one. Be
that as it may, this is a very good entry into the horror genre and it
is heads and shoulders above weak films like I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST
SUMMER and DARK WATER and a few others. It is definitely worth a look.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I do not think that this movie deserves the low rating that most will
give it. It's one of the best "teenager" horror films I've ever seen;
and that's saying a lot. Nothing is left without an explanation to back
it up, the characters and plot break countless horror movie
stereotypes, and it has got nothing to do with some other horrible
pieces we've been submitted to lately. (A clear example is the mindless
"Saint Ange".) The first 30-40 minutes might be downright boring with
the exception of the beginning, although some minor light mistakes can
be easily spotted. After the arrival to the village, though, the horror
-a different, twisted kind of horror- begins.

With the plot and the details, goofs are minor; the characters are this
movie's strongest point, given that so many clich√©s are broken in it.
For example, the two main male characters, Nick and Wade, are not by
any means the idiotic types we're used to; although Dalton might fit
better in this stereotype, not is he the only one to pay for this lack
of consciousness. Some scenes are truly, satisfyingly horrible, making
up for tense moments scattered around all the film. And, in the end,
and although everything is decorously explained, it's easy to see that
things won't go so easy to the surviving characters.

The only errors I can see, and which do not imply continuity (IE, Carly
not finding her own cut finger in the unconscious Bo's pockets) is the
illumination, which is somehow annoying during the first, boring 30
minutes. Although, plot and effects-wise, everything is drastically and
cruelly twisted with the arrival of the main characters to Ambrosia,
that little village in the midst of nothing, so I'll give it that. It's
been pretty much argued that about 70% of the movie is illogical; "How
can two people build an entire house of wax?", "Where do they get all
the wax from?". These wouldn't be uprising questions if people would
have paid more attention to the movie. The Sinclair brothers did not
build the House of Wax; their mother worked making actual wax figures,
and they were exhibited at the museum. And the scenario where Paris
Hilton's unfortunate character meets her untimely death is the answer
to the second question; what is with all the personal objects (mobile
phones, cars, clothes) of the dead people? Using their third brother as
a connection with the exterior, it's pretty much arguable that the
Sinclair twins should obtain the money necessary to buy the wax, in a
WWII-type fashion.

So, that aside, I think the movie deserves a lot more than it gets, and
nobody should lose the chance to watch it. So go see the House of Wax.
Right now.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never seen the original "House Of Wax" so I really didn't know
what to expect when I went to a sneak preview of the new film. After a
somewhat wobbly start introducing our young characters, "House Of Wax"
shifts gears and becomes an extremely effective horror outing.

The plot really doesn't matter too much here - I think most people know
upon seeing this that these stranded kids are going to meet up with a
nasty killer and find some awful things in the titular house of wax.
It's all about the special effects here, and they are top notch.
Viewers who like their horror movies with lots of blood will be
satisfied here, but there are other ghoulish effects as well. The
production design and sets are excellent, and the cast makes the most
of their under-written roles.

Of course, many people are probably wondering just how Paris Hilton's
performance is. To be honest, Hilton acquits herself quite well, and
she doesn't portray "herself," as so many people are predicting. Her
character is sexy and sweet, and I think her good work will hopefully
change a lot of people's opinions about her. Elisha Cuthbert is also
good, moving up from her previous movie, the atrocious "The Girl Next
Door." Her character is put through a lot, and Cuthbert proves to be a
feisty heroine. Chad Michael Murray, like Hilton and Cuthbert, is
pretty to look at, but unfortunately is not very convincing as the "bad
boy" of the group.

I predict good things for "House Of Wax," as the audience at the
screening I attended hollered, screamed and clapped through out many
parts of the movie. Congrats to the cast and crew for a job well done.

And a congrats to Paris Hilton for proving a lot of people wrong. Like
she always says - "That's hot."
<|_=00=_|>
Most of you who keep track of my reviews know my opinion of remakes. If
you can't take the existing material and improve on the original idea,
then don't waste the movie going public's time. Naturally, when I heard
that a remake of the 1953 Vincent Price camp classic "House of Wax" was
being made¬Ö..and starring Paris HILTON for God's sake, I naturally
assumed that this was going to be an epic suckfest just as every other
remake for the past few years.

I couldn't have been more wrong. The 2005 version of "House of Wax" is
a suspenseful, savage, overly gory horror film that really packs a
wallop. Director Jaume Serra has created an atmospheric film that, once
it gets going, is relentless in it's goal to scare the hell out of you.

Plot line is fairly simple, by the book horror film. Group of kids go
on a trip (in this case, a football game), stop to camp in the
backwoods and end up running into a vicious killer. In this case, a man
and his separated Siamese twin take over the work done by their mother,
turning an entire town (which, conveniently has been forgotten by the
world) into wax. Once the somewhat stereotypical characters wander into
this town after having car trouble, the viciousness begins and never
relents.

The lovely and talented Elisha Cuthbert leads the cast as Carly, a
young woman who is about to begin her new life in New York interning at
a popular magazine. She heads off to a football game with her boyfriend
Wade (Jared Padalecki), his friend Blake (Robert Ri'chard), and his
girlfriend Paige (Paris Hilton). Also along for the ride is Carly's
troublemaking brother Nick (Chad Michael Murray, in a great
characterization) and his buddy Dalton (Jon Abrahams). Nick steals the
movie, but Carly more than holds her own, especially given the extreme
brutality she endures during the last half of the movie. Blake and
Dalton's characters were really throw away, I could have easily lived
without them, but Paris never detracted from the film at all. In fact,
up till her well publicized death, she got very little screen time.

As I stated earlier, this was an extremely gory film. The death scenes
are not only very creative, but very explicit in their on-screen
execution. In fact, this movie's savagery is rivaled only by "Saw" in
terms of graphic.

I went into the theater expecting this movie to be horrible, I walked
out two hours later feeling drained and breathless. Surprisingly good
remake, and not for the squeamish.

3 out of 5
