
...is that it ends. This is a fantastic film. It joins the handful of
movies where I think I liked the sequel even more than the original,
although I liked 'Before Sunrise' as well. Where Sunrise captured the
immediacy and urgency of perfect youthful love, Sunset reflects
beautifully on the aftermath of that perfection. I remember a line that
says "nothing that is complete breathes", and I think that is what we
see in this film. A perfect connection with another human is a blessing
and a curse; having experienced perfection a part of us stops
breathing, unable or unwilling to mar the perfection of that memory.

The dialogue is amazing, the acting is spot-on; this is a great film.
In some ways it felt more like reading a great novel than watching a
movie, in that I really felt like I knew the characters and was sad the
movie had to end. Kind of like saying goodbye to an old friend. If you
are an action movie kind of person, skip this flick because it will
bore you to tears. If, on the other hand, you like good dialogue, well
formed characters, and aren't quite jaded enough to have given up
completely on the idea of true love, don't miss this film.
<|_=00=_|>
There are four scenes that I will treasure forever:

1) The ferry ride, and the subtle ways you can tell they're both
heartbroken, lonely, frustrated and angry. The way she discusses the
"little details" that compose a person, and what she missed most in
him. "Like I remember the way your beard has a bit of red it in, and
how the sun was making it glow that...that morning right before you
left."

2) The scene in the van, where they finally unburden themselves. One of
the most emotionally raw and honest interplays I've seen on celluloid.
The way she reaches out to touch him, but holds back at the last
second. Much different in tone from the way Hawke reached out to brush
her hair aside in the first film.

3) Celine's song. So simple yet so endearing. The way her voice fades
to a whisper as she sings, "My heart will be yours until I die."

4) The ending, which is in all ways **PERFECT**. The slow fade, the
utter charm of her Nina Simone impression, the ambiguity, and the
wonderful look in his eyes as his youth, hope and happiness come
rushing back to him while watching Celine dancing and singing
(foreshadowed in the opening scene). This is, perhaps, one of the ten
best endings in the cinema.

Hawke and Delpy are sublime, of course. This film requires incredibly
subtle acting, and these are Oscar worthy performances that will not be
recognized because they are not showy. Much of this film, like life, is
acted with the eyes. Witness how Hawke stares at Delpy as she discusses
her failed relationships on the ferry, or the sadness and longing in
Delpy's eyes as she sings her love song. 

As in the first film, the chemistry between them is indelible. My
candidate for best on-screen couple ever.

This film is better than the first, because it provides a more unique
perspective. In Sunset, we see the sobering effects of age and
disappointment etched in their faces and clouding their lives. There is
more at stake here, for they are nine years older, have made their
share of mistakes, feel imprisoned by responsibilities, and must
confront their shortcomings and problems. It's comforting to believe
that hope and love will prevail in their case.
<|_=00=_|>
Before Sunset is one of those movies, you either love, or you hate.

Personally, I loved it.

Now, I recommend watching "Before Sunrise" first, however it isn't
necessary. Before Sunset does a good job of reviewing what had
happened, therefore if you decide to watch it Before watching "Sunrise"
you have nothing to worry about.

Some scenes are extremely well done. The characters are picture
perfect, and the movie itself, is breathtaking. The aura of the movie
is so spectacular, that it will inspire young directors out there, to
pick up their video cameras are start filming.

An 80 minute movie, about two lovable characters and what they have to
say, may sound boring. But the way it's done in Before Sunset, will
sweep this impression right off your feet. 

Julie and Ethan play two of the most honest and true characters I have
ever seen, they are known as Jesse and Celine. And while much of the
credit must go to the characters themselves, you musn't forget the
actor and actress who played them.

Julie is perfect as Celine. The young french actress is so natural in
front of the camera. Definitely, has potential. 

Ethan is also very very honest, he seems so comfortable character that
that you forget your watching a movie, and not a home-made video.

Both play with such honest expression, and such trueness, that they are
so natural, Before Sunset becomes no longer a movie. It feels as if you
are eavesdropping on two extremely developed people. It's such an
intimate environment, that you never want to leave.

Before Sunset... 9.901/10*****
<|_=00=_|>
I will be the first to announce that I was not a huge fan of the
original film. While I thought that it was interesting to see as well
as an untapped concept in Hollywood, I felt that the characters were
too forced coupled with a very amateurish and repetitive moments. It
was an average film that seemed to be lacking bits of the human
element. It needed something more. At the time I couldn't put my finger
on it, but after seeing Before Sunset, I could see what it was.
Maturity. This may sound strange, but I felt that Jesse and Celine were
too perfect in the first film. They lacked connectiveness to the
average person. I couldn't see myself in this situation. Perhaps if I
would have seen the original film in 1995 instead of a couple of years
ago, it would have been closer, but I just couldn't capture the moment.
In Before Sunset, I feel head over feet for both Jesse and Celine.

They seemed to have grown and experienced a life that was all their
own. They seemed more passionate, more powerful, and especially more
human. From their first meeting in the bookstore until the finale in
Celine's apartment, I was fully immersed in their conversation. I
wanted to know everything I could about both of them, and I did. I
loved hearing about Celine's passion for the environment, and Jesse's
distraught marriage. It brought these two characters out of the screen
and into our lives. Whether it was a scripted story or if Hawke and
Delpy were playing off each other, it worked. I witnessed in this film
two people who were made for each other. It was more obvious in this
film than in the prior outing. 

What made this film work on such a higher level than the first were the
actors. They have grown and emerged as two important commodities in the
Hollywood community. This is probably Hawke's greatest performance in
years. His relaxed actions made us feel relaxed around him, yet quietly
pushing for him to be closer to Celine. His pushy sexual advances
seemed less forced and instead more like honest love. He looked and
felt like a man that has been dreaming of this encounter all his life,
and it finally happened. You could see the excitement in his eyes to
see Delpy again. It was more than just acting, he put so much heart
into this performance that it was clearly displayed for all to see. The
same goes for Delpy. At the beginning of this film, I didn't like her
character. She seemed rough and rigid around the edges, constantly
giving off that feeling that she was harboring a secret that she didn't
want Hawke to know. As her character grew in this film, I understood
why. She had a different life after the encounter than Hawke did. While
he still longed for Celine in his heart, he did move on. She longed for
Jesse in her heart, and to this day could not find anyone to replace
his purity. I loved Celine much more in the sequel because she kept us
guessing. Did she remember their night together? Did she really loose
her grandmother, or did she just not show up that day in Vienna? Was
the song just for Jesse? So many questions left me wanting more and
more and more. 

Finally, I would like to say that Linklater is growing with his films,
and this was a crowning achievement for him. He powerfully and
delicately built a sequel that was for superior than the original. He
continued with a similar format as the first, but gave us stronger
characters and another beautiful city. The language in this film is
intense. Listen to the words that come from Ethan and Julie, they
embody so much of our culture and our lives. There were moments when I
felt they were speaking thoughts directly from my mind. Everything in
this film was connected and worked to the fullest extent of cinematic
possibility. 

Overall, this was a brilliant film. Linklater captured the essence of
these two heart-struck people and proved that it could be filmed. This
is one of the ultimate love stories that will remain on your minds far
after the film is over. The intimate final lines will continually
reverberate as the best ever in a movie. This was a huge step up from
the original, and is one of the best films of the year. If you were not
a fan of the Before Sunset, I suggest that you check this out. It is a
mature film that explores the power of love in a way that no other
Hollywood film could. I would not be surprised if we saw the title of
this film in the Oscar celebration this year. Check out this film to
hear social commentary of our lives, fall in love, and especially to
see the beauty of Paris. 

Grade: ***** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
I'd been longing to see this one as I'd always thought 'Before Sunrise'
was one of the most honest, most real films I'd ever seen, but at the
same time I held off seeing the sequel from fear of disappointment. For
all of you in the same position, fear not ; Linklater, Hawke and Delphy
(for it has surely been a joint effort and labour of love for all
three) have done us and themselves proud. I've just seen the film and
despite being male and 38 I feel like Roberta Flack must have felt when
she penned 'Killing me Softly' after hearing Don McLean sing 'Vincent'
in concert; this is - once again - just so close to what it's all
about. You want technicalities? The acting, superb; Hawke and Delphy
slip right back into their characters, their mannerisms, their
sometimes gauche repartee, the way they seem to fence around each
other, seeming to go in for the kill then feigning, drawing
backExquisite. And then the details, the echoes of the first film in
the settings but now with a world-weariness, an autumnal note and yet
with still that fundamental freshness and optimism that revives the
memories of Sunrise's youthfulness and reminds us, as our heroes
discuss, that though time changes people, there remains an unchanging
core. Just see it; this is about as good as it gets, folks.
<|_=00=_|>
"Before Sunrise" was one of the most beautiful independent love stories
of the 90's. Part of its appeal came from the open ending. We didn't
know how the lives of these two young people would continue and what
would become of them. The whole movie was like a snapshot that left the
rest to our imagination. A sequel to such a story seemed to be
unnecessary, but apparently director Richard Linklater himself couldn't
stop thinking about these two intriguing characters and had to envision
their lives after this one fateful day in Vienna.

Here it is now, the most unlikely sequel I have ever seen, "Before
Sunset" - made not for money but for pure artistic purpose only. Much
of the magic of part one could have been destroyed, but somehow
Linklater and his two main actors managed to pull it off. "Before
Sunset" takes place nine years after Jesse and Celine first met and as
soon as the movie starts you feel like you meet old friends you haven't
seen in a long time. You know these people and immediately feel at home
with them. I was afraid that "Before Sunset" might give answers to
questions that shouldn't be answered in the first place. If "Before
Sunrise" was a dream that two young people had, then this movie could
only be the rude awakening, the confrontation with reality. And somehow
it is just that. It's a bit disillusioning to hear that all did not
turn out as well as one might have imagined. We learn that Jesse and
Celine are not particularly happy in their lives and that they are not
really the romantic persons they used to be nine years ago. The
soothing thing to see, however, is that they are still here. They both
have passed their 30th birthday, they have jobs and their future is
more or less decided, but they're still longing for passion in their
lives and as soon as they meet each other, it's there again. They might
have given up a lot of their dreams and beliefs but one thing remains
true: their feelings for each other. While they're talking it's like
they turn back time and become the young, hopeful people they once were
again. I'm getting a bit carried away, but that's the beauty of these
two movies, "Sunrise" and "Sunset". The story sucks you in and you're
not able to stop thinking about it for a long while.

Another thing "Before Sunset" did, it made me reflect on my own life.
How have I changed in the past nine years? What has become of my
dreams? Obviously, I have gotten more cynical, because at times I was
irritated by Celine's talk about environmental problems and her
emotional outbursts. It took me way longer than last time to "bond"
with her character this time around.

Anyway, the performances by Hawke and Delpy are wonderful once again.
Their acting is as natural as can be, and thinking of Hawke's recent
divorce in real life you wonder how much of his character in the movie
is based on his own personal experiences.

Unfortunately, the movie is over way too soon. After about an hour you
have already arrived at the final scene - a scene that is just amazing.
It makes you hope that somehow everything will work out for Jesse and
Celine and that maybe they will stay together this time. As part one,
"Before Sunset" doesn't have a definite ending, though.

It's sure nice to see that apparently Linklater cares about Jesse and
Celine as much as I do and made such a good sequel. He could probably
even make a third part. "Before Sunset" has convinced me that it could
work.
<|_=00=_|>
I had not seen the prequel to this although my date had and she filled
me in on many details. While the experience of this film would be
enriched by having seen the preceding film first, it certainly stands
satisfactorily alone.

In many ways, this reminded me very much of one of my most favorite
movies of all time, "My Dinner with André," in which just 2 characters
talking comprised the whole movie. In that movie, the friends had been
close, drifted apart, and then had a brief reunion at a dinner at which
they caught up with what the other had been doing. The two principals,
André Gregory and Wallace Shawn, played themselves and each represented
one side of a dialectic, say the side of romanticism vs. a conventional
reality. "Before Sunset" is parallel in many ways.

At one level we have a romantic story -- two people who'd briefly been
lovers nine years before and lost touch meet again. They spend an
afternoon together. Will they try to fulfill what they'd started? 

At another level, we have the charm of conversation and exploration, of
reminiscing, of gradually feeling out and discovery of how much do I
have in common with this person now? -- where has this person been? --
what are they capable of now? -- how much freedom of choice do I have,
does this other person have -- to make decisions? Etc.

While Celine and Jesse have a capacity for relating and talking, they
also have somewhat opposite ways of viewing the world and relationships
-- Celine is more cynical and reserved; Jesse is more open to settling
for the "not-perfect-but-good-enough."

There are possibly a few people who have not had the personal
experiences that at least somewhat relate to the premise in this film
-- a relationship in which one wonders, "what would have happened if
I'd pursued that relation?" but probably most people have. And the
other dilemma, of meeting again that someone but by now being involved
in relationships of responsibility -- my family, my children, my
present life. What would it do to them if I were to pursue my own
happiness at the expense of them? Can I do that? Can I value the chance
of my own happiness above theirs? Etc.

The film, fortunately, gives us no answers to these essential questions
but it does pose them in a way that makes us consider them.

Delpy and Hawke are given screenwriter credits and I feel sure that
they must've contributed a great deal to the feeling of seamless,
natural dialogue.

GREAT movie. No movie satisfies everyone, of course, but at the time I
wrote this, slightly over 50% of the voters gave it a 10/10. For those
of us in that group, it's a great film.
<|_=00=_|>
A sequel to the 1995 film "Before Sunrise". Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and 
Celine (Julie Delpy) meet 9 years after their initial meeting. They've 
changed--originally they were in their 20s and full of idealism. Now 
they're in their 30s--and their lives have changed in ways they didn't 
predict. Like the first movie they walk around Paris this time and talk about love, life, reality, what 
might have been--and it's all fascinating. Like the first film this is 
basically a character study and (like the first) just incredible. It's 
like catching up with old friends after 9 years apart! They've aged a 
lot--Hawke looks TERRIBLE but Delpy looks OK--and life has thrown both 
a few hard knocks but hearing how they survived and what they went 
through is just incredible. 

This is NOT for everybody (four people walked out when I went to see 
it) but, for people who can deal with nonstop talk for 80 minutes it is 
just great. Every single line rings true and is delivered full force by 
Hawke and Delpy. The acting varies--Hawke is good (but he smiles WAY 
too much)--Delpy is just superb all the way through.

This is easily one of the best films of 2004. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Nine years on Celine and Jessie meet in Paris not entirely by destiny
or sheer force of circumstance... Nine years ago I loved Before Sunrise
so much! And identified with it even though I was far from home not out
of choice - and a war of the kind that bothered Celine in Bosnia was
going on in my own country... But I was young. I was 24, actually, very
romantic and innocent. Now I Know how things work a little better. The
world, relationships. But I'm still plunging into causes for their own
sake. And I'm still a reasonably normal person. Just like the
characters in this film. Paris has never looked simpler in its casual
elegance. Dialogue has never seemed more natural. A script never
touched real life like this one so effortlessly. I'm in love with these
characters - and with the ending... This is how European Cinema used to
be - and Hollywood, too for that matter. Naturally real and magical in
the details.
<|_=00=_|>

"Before Sunset" is one of those movies that look superficial, romantic,
weepy, crowd-pleasing, but really is original, smart, analytical, and
challenging. It stands by itself but is richer seen in relation to
"Before Sunrise," made nine years earlier, of which it is the sequel,
and besides that it's richer and subtler than the original. The
characters and the actors are older, more experienced and more
sophisticated. It's got a documentary element, reminiscent of Michael
Apted's wonderful "7 Up," "14 Up," series. Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke,
who also stared in "Before Sunrise," don't have to pretend to be nine
years older in this sequel; they are. They're only thirty-three now,
but Hawke has the ravaged gauntness his breakup with Uma Thurman seems
to have imposed on him. Delpy is more mature, less angelic, more
businesslike, but still beautiful. 

"Before Sunset" is a leaner film than "Before Sunrise." It's real-time,
and without frills. Venues or backgrounds are simpler. Jesse and Céline
largely just walk and talk. 

Hawke and Delpy are more accomplished actors; less self-conscious
people. The talk flows more effortlessly. The continuity of the scenes
is a seamless tour de fource almost as if this were all a single take
like Sokorov's "Russian Ark." 

There isn't flirting or a developing attraction, a growing physical
intimacy, as in "Before Sunset," because Jesse and Céline spend most of
the film talking about that earlier meeting and how it has haunted them
and dominated their lives. Gradually it comes out (particularly during
the car ride that leads to where Céline lives) that her current
relationship is limited and his marriage is largely sexless, redeemed
only by his adoration of his four-year-old son. 

She pretends not to remember that they made love that night in Vienna
nine years before. Maybe that means their sudden passion never really
was consummated, because their affinity wasn't something one night's
sex could fulfill. 

The premise is this: Jesse has published a novel that's a bestseller in
the US and he's doing a signing in Paris. (Hawke's real life identity
fits here, since he's published several books.) Suddenly as he's coming
to the end of his talk, Céline appears outside the window of the
bookstore (which is one every American in Paris knows: Shakespeare &
Company). He's supposed to go to the airport in a couple of hours, but
his bags are packed and a car is ready, and he and Céline agree to go
and talk. She leads him to a café called Le Pure. (This is real time,
but not real space: the places where they go are far apart.) Then they
take a boat ride on the Seine; finally they get in the car and wind up
at Céline's apartment which turns out to be a lovely enclave where her
neighbors are together outside having a party.

A movie in real time consisting mostly of conversation is impossible to
summarize: it would take twenty pages. But it does emerge that both
still think about each other a lot; that meeting nine years before has
remained important. The flame still burns bright. Jesse did go back to
Vienna six months later in the station to meet Céline as they'd
promised, but her grandmother was buried on that day and she couldn't
be there. Later he says that perhaps his dream of romantic love was
shattered forever by her failure to appear. They rue the fact that they
didn't exchange addresses or phone numbers. 

There's little touching or kissing but there doesn't have to be. It's
obvious that this is a climactic reunion for both of them and the
attraction is as strong as ever, probably stronger  except that there
are obstacles. They're not young and free any more. They have lives,
commitments, involvements. . . 

What will happen? As the film ends, its obvious Jessie is quite happily
going to miss his plane. But while Linklater & Company keep us
guessing, the partial answer that comes is quite charming. 

"Before Sunset" is a superb sequel. It's touching but surprisingly
unsentimental. And it's as graceful a piece of film-making as you could
ever see, with the gracefulness of art that conceals artifice. Richard
Linklater is one of the most interesting younger American directors.
His work is authentic and personal, but has real range, from the
slacker movies through the romantic encounters of Delpy and Hawke and
the tight theatrical drama "Tape" to the inspired philosophical musings
and fresh use of animation of "Waking Life," and Hawke has been
involved in four of Linklater's movies. Linklater and Hawke are
soulmates and brothers, and Delpy is the other essential collaborator
in the "Sunset"/"Sunrise" sequence, because she too is a writer and
wrote her own dialogue and the chemistry between Hawke and Delpy is too
obvious to mention. It's obvious also the audience would like another
sequel, and so would the actors. It's only a question of when. The
inventive Richard Linklater has created a new genre: the real time
sequel.

