
(Synopsis) Jimmy "Dodge" Connelly (George Clooney) is the team captain
of the Bulldogs in the struggling pro football league in 1925. The
entire pro football league is in danger of collapsing, one team at a
time, and his team is next. Dodge gets an idea of saving the team by
recruiting a college football star who fills the college stadium with
over 45,000 cheering fans. With the lure of big money, Dodge is able to
convince Carter Rutherford (John Krasinski) to drop out of college and
join the team. Carter is not only a star football player who can outrun
his completion, but he is also a national war hero of WWI who
single-handedly captured a platoon of German soldiers. Lexie Littleton
(Renee Zellweger) is a newspaper journalist assigned to get Carter's
real inside story about the capture of the German soldiers. To get the
story, Lexie must travel with the team, and in time, both Carter and
Dodge fall for her. Only one will win her love as the fourth quarter
comes to an end.

(My Comment) George Clooney not only starred in this slapstick comedy,
he also directed it. The movie may not win any awards, but it is
enjoyable to watch. Since the movie took place in 1925, the writers
took us back to that time, and slapstick was the rule. If you let
yourself go and get into the movie, you will actually get the feel of
that era. George is very talented, but I don't think he has a flair for
comedy. Renee Zellweger and George share a chemistry together that
works well for this movie. You may think this is a chick flick, but you
would be somewhat wrong. The love angle doesn't really get going until
the end. You will love the way they play pro football with very few
rules, especially, the last game that is played in the mud. This is a
cute movie, and I know they had a lot of fun making it, because it
shows. (Universal Pictures, Run Time 1:54, Rated PG-13)(7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
George Clooney's latest homage to the Golden Age of movies brushes ever
so closely at times to the classic screwball comedies of the '30s and
'40s, but falls short in both the carefree laughs and whimsical
romance. No one else even tries though, so Clooney's efforts are much
appreciated and do culminate in a fairly unique romantic sports comedy.

With the early days of professional football as a backdrop, a scandal,
a romance, and a sport all begin to take shape in Clooney's ode to
screwball comedy. Desperate to legitimize the sport he so loves,
reckless Dodge Connelly (George Clooney) hatches a plan to bring
college football superstar and American war hero Carter "The Bullet"
Rutherford (John Krasinski) to his team of Duluth Bulldogs  as well as
the crowd of thousands that will follow. Meanwhile, the Chicago Tribune
assigns equally relentless reporter Lexie Littleton (Renee Zellweger)
to uncover the truth behind The Bullet's wartime accomplishments and
bring down his charade of heroism. Things get even more complicated
when both Dodge and Carter fall for Lexie and the game of football must
take a backseat to the game of love.

Clooney has all but nailed the performance of the male lead in the
classic screwball comedy, however his supporters and the too-serious
dilemmas detract from the presentation's overall mood. Clooney's
wide-eyed, smooth-talking Dodge Connelly charms with his on-screen
presence and go-getter charisma, but John Krasinski's Carter Rutherford
rarely provides a worthy opponent. The prize, Renee Zellweger's Lexie
Littleton, tries too hard to be the fast-talking, hard-edged
businesswoman, and then never becomes one worth winning. Her chemistry
with Clooney is hit-or-miss, and George is clearly the victor in their
exchanges. The minor characters provide a laugh or two but barely stand
out, save for the always entertaining and mildly villainous performance
from Jonathan Pryce.

While Clooney may not be able to perfect the laughs and romance of the
genre, he does do an excellent job in recreating the times. A jazzy,
swinging score from Randy Newman complements and humorizes period
events like prohibition raids, as well as the bar-room fights and
on-field rivalries. The upbeat, piano-heavy tunes are a definite
highlight and truly work well to accent the lighthearted atmosphere.
Stock footage, sepia tones, and steady pans across still frames
accentuate the feeling of watching a piece of history, and the costumes
and set designs appear meticulously crafted.

Chronicling the advancement in professional football from the 1920's,
Leatherheads attempts to re-imagine the fast-talking screwball comedies
of the '30s - but with only partial success. The dialogue is inventive
and amusingly brusque, but oftentimes the conversations are too abrupt.
Falling back on waggish expressions and lengthy fistfights, Clooney's
homage to classic comedies unfortunately has as many stale moments as
engaging ones. Like The Good German before it, Leatherheads re-creates
a genre long lost, and while both don't fully realize the style of the
classics they emulate, it's refreshing to see someone still remembers.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
Just yesterday, my family and I were itching to go to the movie
theatre. After my grandfather recommended it to us for being "hilarious
slapstick humour", and after seeing some funny previews, we decided to
see Leatherheads. Leatherheads, George Clooney's latest movie, dives
into the Roaring 20s, early professional football, the Chicago Tribune,
and fake war heroes, all in about an hour and 44 minutes. As
unappealing and generic as that might sound compared to the average
comedy feature, it was actually a quite fun movie, which is to be
expected coming from Clooney.

The movie follows the story of the Duluth Bulldogs, a professional
American football team, and its most well-known player, Dodge Connelly.
Luck is not always on the Bulldogs' side, as can be interpreted from
the outcome of the first game you watch them play, but trickery and
cheating is. Dodge becomes infamous for cheating almost every game and
leading his team to victory because of it. It was okay then, though.
There were no rules to American football early on, and cheating was
what made the game interesting. That's one of the main themes of the
movie.

After the introduction comes Lexie Littleton (played by Renée
Zellweger), a quick-witted reporter for the Chicago Tribune who doesn't
like her co-workers too much. After calling them "dimwitted" or
something similar for the fortieth time, Lexie is assigned by her boss
to a story on Carter "The Bullet" Rutherford (played by John
Krasinski), a war hero with a more than embellished story. When she is
promised the assistant editor's desk if she brings back some dirt on
The Bullet and exposes his fake war story, Lexie sets out on quite the
adventure, meeting Dodge and the rest of the Bulldogs along the way.

I know that all of this probably sounds generic to the average
moviegoer, but it's actually a quite fresh and fun movie. With any
other actor and actress at the forefront at the movie, it may have come
off as generic and boring, but Clooney and Zellweger have enough
chemistry and enough quirks to make the movie fun. There are also some
absolutely classic lines and scenes. It's just a fun movie. Don't
expect too much depth, because there really isn't any. This movie is
more than enough to quench the thirst of any moviegoer who asks for
nothing more than an hour and a half of simple humour and slapstick
antics.

The historical accuracy is there. Some scenes are featured in a
speakeasy, with a female African-American jazz singer performing.
Basically everything you see is typical of the time period. Actually,
anyone watching the movie might get a little shock when they hear that
coffee is only 10 cents a cup at a diner Dodge stops at early on in the
movie. However, on the other hand, some major plot areas are not at all
historically accurate, especially relating to the football
commissioner, since there was no football commissioner for the NFL
until 1941. However, this is perhaps looking too deeply into a fun,
casual movie.

The main criticism I have of this movie is that some of the scenes just
go on too long, especially the punching scene which was featured in the
previews. After they punch each other in the face for the tenth time
and finish it off with a bad joke from The Bullet, you already are
hoping that one of them will bash the other's skull in by accident or
something just so that the scene can end. To offset that, however,
there were some very quick and humorous scenes, like the scene in which
Dodge first meets Lexie in the hotel and tries to hide his face by
reading an issue of a women's magazine.

Overall, Leatherheads is worth it for the entertainment value. The
story isn't fantastic, but the acting is enough to make up for it, even
if you only pay attention to Dodge's witty exchanges with Lexie. If you
don't go in expecting too much, you will leave satisfied, refreshed,
and entertained, and that's really all the movie aimed for.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Leatherheads today, despite the negative comments here at IMDb.
On the whole, I agree with the 'movie-guy: Doug' who ventured that this
is a "slapstick comedy that is cute and enjoyable to watch". I'd add
that this is a comedic period-piece, which is pleasant and witty,
rather than hilarious and knee-slapping (if you want to get technical).
It offers excellent sets, costumes and characterizations typical of the
Roaring 20's when Newspapers were godlike, and Radio was just
unfolding.

It's (loosely) about Pro Football in the 20's. The message is that the
game was rough, poorly-regulated and messy! (No wonder Baseball was
America's game!) College players fared better, with fervent fan support
and well-tended fields of play -- but after College, great players
packed it up and got real jobs (or switched to baseball, I guess). In
this story, George Clooney hopes to boost the fortunes of his
floundering Toledo Pro team by recruiting a college superstar (and
reported war-hero), played by John Krasinski. Renée Z. is the ace
reporter dispatched to get the goods on the football hero's military
service record.

The film was reminiscent of the 1988 film '8 Men Out' in doing a great
job of recreating the look and feel of that era. However, '8 Men Out'
was based upon a real life incident and a fabulous book. 'Leatherheads'
was a story one IMDb contributor says George Clooney carried around in
his pocket for 20 years. So, I'd agree that the storytelling and comedy
bits of the screenplay are lacking a bit. However, George does fine as
a Director and Performer -- I don't buy that comedy isn't 'his thing' -
he was sparkling in 'Oh Brother Where Art Thou' and 'Intolerable
Cruelty' (ahhhhh, but those were Coen Brothers scripts, which showed
what George could do with a real creative team behind him). Also, it
looked like the cast had a hoot making this thing -- to be honest, if
the DVD has lots of bloopers and special features, that alone might
induce me to pick it up in 2009.

I quite enjoyed the film, but, then, I like period pieces, especially
those about the Jazz Age (8 Men Out, Great Gatsby and the Sting are in
my Top-20). Nice soundtrack by Randy Newman here, too. This was witty
and pleasant to watch. And PG-13 comedies that are NOT about singles
dating morons or kids with three dads, or sperm donors (the Previews at
our matinée today) are in very short supply these days.

Might add that Renée was quite charming in the manner of a glamor girl
of the Jazz Age, with soft blonde hair and strategic use of red
lipstick to produce that perfect 'kissy' smile! Pete Gerety, a veteran
character player, chips in with a nice spot as a new Football
Commissioner. I recognized Gerety as the smooth-talking oil baron 'Lee
Janus' in another Clooney project, Syriana.

7/10 - canuckteach

btw: The NFL really didn't get rolling as a major diversion until NFL
Films made it a TV legacy in the late 60's. (In the 50's, it was viewed
in crummy black and white with those ugly-duckling 4-poster goalposts).
<|_=00=_|>
Reading some of the other reviews, maybe people thought this was
supposed to be a heavy movie? If so, lighten up. This was (and was
supposed to be) a light-hearted movie. And it was pulled off very well.
Acting by Clooney, Zellweger, and others captured the spirit of the
era, including humor, dress, and scenery. 

The plot was not deep but flowed well. Clooney's character, Dodge
Connelly, heads up a team in Duluth, and picks up a star college
player. Eventually, they end up in Chicago, with Connelly on one side
of the ball and the college star on the other. The birth of the modern
professional football is woven into the plot. Clooney's age, 46, a bit
old for a football player, was not covered up with make-up, but
integrated into his character. I think that, in the movie, he was 40 to
45 years old. Zellgeger, as Lexie Littleton, a newspaper reporter who
has to find the truth behind the college star's heroic war record,
played her part very well too.

Very good directing by Clooney. You definitely felt like you were back
in the 20's. Not overdone or underdone. One of those movies you walk
out at the end glad that you went.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advance screening of Leatherheads at NYU Movies101 last night.

I was so excited when it was announced that this movie was being shown.

I settled in my seat ready to enjoy another great movie that George
Clooney directs and acts in.

All during the film, I thought to myself "Is it just me, or is this
movie going nowhere?". I was trying SO hard to like it.

Well, it wasn't just me. I was surprised to see about ¾ of the full
house of people I saw it with feel the same way, even the hosting
professor.

As discussed after the screening, it had Top-Notch Scenic Design, Sound
Track (by Randy Newman), Editing, Acting (Renee Zellweger was
fabulous), Directing, Costumes, and Cinematography. It did not have a
good story, and that is what made it fail. The script was written in
the 1980's by two sports writers. Clooney has been carrying it around
with him for over 2 decades. I suspect that the script was pretty much
left the script alone from its origin. 

The concept of the story is great, but the writing was horrible. Maybe
George Clooney thought that the concept and grandeur would "carry" the
film? It was disappointing to see George Clooney in a movie that did
not compliment him in anyway. He does do comedy well, as he did in "O
Brother, Where Art Thou?". How can you act well with terrible material?
George's Directing was great.
<|_=00=_|>
"Leatherheads" is a movie of laughs, and feel good fun a period piece
of football nostalgia that's held together by it's slapstick comedy and
blended well with romance. George Clooney who stars and directs gives a
good turn here, yet it seems a little uncommon seeing the superstar in
a period comedy piece as he's clearly a better dramatic actor still he
scores some points here for his style of shooting and direction of the
film.

Set in the 1920's George is 'Dodge' Connelly a football player on the
field and a ladies man off it, and this is before the big money and
rules changes that took into form for the game. Clooney's team the
Duluth Bulldogs are a scrapper bunch at play yet the team is tough and
gritty, and off the field George's Dodge character is full of drink and
has eyes for a dame. Enter Lexie Littleton(Renee Zellweger)who's an
elegant and sexy snap news lady of a reporter as she's a little lady in
red from her nifty wardrobe. While the Bulldogs team and other foes
have gone bankrupt and many move on to other traits of work like mining
and labor, a plan then develops to invest in and start an organized
league with the help of a famous recruit for the Bulldogs that being
college ivy league stud and apparent war hero Carter Rutherford(John
Krasinski). Along the way then the film blends with plenty of slapstick
laughs and comic gridiron action from strange and crazy tackles to
muddy fields to catchy flirtation one liners and romance that is seen
in a chastely and sexy way. And the big surprise is the truth about the
apparent battlefield story is revealed.

Overall this isn't a great movie, but it's OK as the slapstick and
laughs carry it, so if your expecting a historical serious and dramatic
look at the early NFL you want get it here. Though the costumes and
uniforms of the classic throwback way of no face mask, no chin gear,
nor any rules make you feel just like your back watching a 1920's era
game. The chemistry between Clooney and Zellweger is good as Renee is a
bright treat to watch even though the laughs are good and the scenes
are fun Clooney appears out of place here in a comedy work even though
his performance is good, this screwball comedy scores for laughs and is
flagged for drama and it's lack of focused attention on the history of
the start of the NFL.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just seen the movie and read the other comments I felt I had to
respond. OK, so the dialogue is a little clunky in places and there is
no great emotional journey or powerful moral at the end so accept it
for what it is - a nice little movie that passes a couple of hours and
leaves you with the feeling that you've been entertained. Why is it
that people always expect George Clooney to do powerhouse / classic
films?? Maybe he wanted to make this because he liked the story and
thought other people would too? The characters are simple as is the
story but it never pretends to be anything big. It's a light hearted
caper that does nothing the offend the senses or damage the careers of
anyone involved. Let it wash over you! My advice? Go see it and make up
your own mind, who knows - you might even enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
'Leatherheads' tries so hard. Tries to be light hearted. Tries to be a
comedy. Tries to be a love affair. Let's see, it tries to be a 'His
Girl Friday' by way of 'The Sting' by way of 'It Happened One Night' by
way of a dozen sports movies. Alas, trying isn't doing and the movie is
as soggy as the last game's field.

A fan of movies would watch the big fight scene in the speakeasy
between the Duluth Bulldogs and some soldiers and realize that the
fights that John Ford staged with such style and verve and humor in
movies like 'The Quiet Man' or 'Donovan's Reef', or 'The Searchers' may
have seemed easy to do but obviously aren't. I would bet George Clooney
thought channeling John Ford would be easy as well. How hard could it
be: masculinity run amok, punches, bottles broken over heads, an
imperturbable piano player...just put it up there on the screen with
some happening music. Sorry. It takes a master to make fight scenes
flow.

Movies aren't wished into existence. Humor is hard. Romance is hard.
Slapstick a lost art.

I once read that you never wanted to sit too close to a ballet
performance. Something about not wanting to prick the fantastic bubble
of the performance by hearing the thuds of the dancers' feet or the
grunts of the lifts. This movie is like that...all strain and good
intentions, handsome actors, nice sets, but it thuds through its paces
rather than gallops like the original Galloping Ghost, Red Grange, who
the movie is loosely based on.
<|_=00=_|>
While the dialog is clever and the acting is up to par, the mix of
sports and romance ultimately falls flat. The legitimizing of football
in the 1920's is the main plot point, with Clooney's Dodge Connelly
attempting to popularize it through recruiting war hero turned college
football phenomenon, Carter Rutherford, played by Krasinski.

The plot thickens when an officer who fought alongside Rutherford
claims that the golden-boy's actions during the war are less than
heroic. 

Zellweger's ambitious Lexie Littleton doggedly pursues the truth behind
the tall tales, all the while being pursued by the meant-to-be charming
football has-been Connelly and the bright eyed Rutherford, who's
reputation she is meant to dismantle. While Zellwegger looks the part
of a '20's bombshell, Littleton is little more than an instigating
character meant to stir up rivalry and trouble.

Though Littleton and Connelly's repartee is meant to mirror that of
classic characters, she remains a shadow of prior female protagonists
and never comes fully into her own. Her wavering affections for
Rutherford and Connelly do not fit into the classic feminine archetype
she was meant to embody.

While Clooney's smooth-talking Connelly was written with the intent of
being charming, his actions oftentimes appear more arrogant than
anything else. He is an unabashed trickster both on and off the field,
but instead of coming off as an artful beguiler, he instead appears
dishonest and at times unworthy.

Krasinski's Rutherford is by far the most charming and likable
character in the film; his aw-shucks demeanor is disarmingly
enchanting. 

While Rutherford was built up as a rival for the aging Connelly, it is
difficult to perceive in what way they are meant to compete with each
other. He is stuck in a lie that snowballed into epic proportions, and
his naiveté shows when he is genuinely wounded by Littleton's betrayal.

The remotely villainous CC Frazier, played by Jonathan Pryce, is an
amusing feature of the film. His immoral approach to business and his
eager desire to take advantage of the talent of others, namely
Rutherford, shows a different and less promising side to the
professionalizing of football.

While the conflict between Rutherford and Connelly appears somewhat
stilted, the banter between the two is unequaled throughout the film.
Most of the truly funny moments are between the two, honoring slapstick
bits made famous in early cinema.

Randy Newman's swinging score is jazzy and jaunty, adding light
excitement and highlights the screwiest scenes. 

The Mention, and the ignoring of, prohibition also added legitimacy to
the film, leading to an entertaining old-fashioned police chase
involving Littleton and Connelly.

The football scenes were initially exciting, with Connelly's dupes and
playing dirty rallying the spirit of football and Rutherford's clean
and direct approach offering an interesting parallel. However, the
final game is rather anticlimactic.

What was meant to be the pivotal scene in the football game was
dissatisfying and confusing, using old suspense-building clichés to
mount a weak scene. The final game was meant to be dull in order to put
across Connelly's assertion that the rules of football ruin the game,
but nonetheless it results in disappointment.

The costume designs, including the old-fashioned football uniforms and
Littleton's various old time dresses make one feel as if they are
taking a look back into the past, as does the beautiful cinematography.

"Leatherheads," is entertaining and fun, but its attempt to emulate the
past genre ends up ultimately dissatisfying.
