
There are very few works of 20th-century American literature that can
be called indispensable to our understanding of our culture. And one of
these few is Jack Kerouac's On the Road. As everyone knows, it's the
thinly-veiled autobiographical account of Kerouac and his friends in
their pointless but exuberant adventures across America. For 50 years,
it's been waiting to be made into a movie. Now, at last.

So, everyone already knows the storyÂ… well, no; chances are, if you're
like me, you read the book and yet remember almost nothing of the
story. The book burns through its shreds of storyline as if they were
just tinder for the blaze of its energy; the real fuel is the pacing,
even with all its redundancy. It's the momentum that sucks us into the
breathless chaos of Kerouac's world. We come away impressed by the
energy, not the content.

Film could certainly have been used to amplify this effect, but this is
not that film. Instead, we have a more conventional treatment, focusing
on character development. It's a nice production, with an attractive
cast. But the story comes at us very differently from the book
experience. The manuscript has been rewritten to add breathing space
and objectivity. We see Sal Paradise, only half-formed at the start of
the story, pull himself together to become a serious writer. We see the
endlessly exuberant Dean Moriarity ultimately coming to grips with the
progressive self- destruction attributable to his amorality, and
suffering. This might be a fair reading of Kerouac's ultimate feelings
about that part of his life, but it's not the feeling that Kerouac
shares with us in the book. We have lost our innocence; our last chance
to revisit it, even for a few hours, is taken away.

I'm not going to rage against this re-conception of the story, though,
because it makes other changes from the book that might be
improvements. Several episodes that were censored from the book are
restored in the film. (Some discussion of this at
http://www.univie.ac.at/Anglistik/easyrider/data/BeatEros.htm). So the
movie is more historically accurate, and far more sexually explicit
than the book. (That could also explain its delayed US release). In one
poignant scene, Carlos Marx (Allen Ginsberg) is whining to Sal about
how vulnerable he feels due to his poorly-returned love for Dean. To
the best of my recollection, that conversation was not in the book
(please tell me if you believe otherwise), but was expressed in a
private letter from Ginsberg to Kerouac many years after the fact. This
kind of thing changes the emotional flow of the story, certainly, but
it adds depth, too.

Few of us will actually suffer nostalgia for the gritty overindulgences
of the Beats. But remember, this came at a time when society was
absolutely saturated with the message that everyone should be "normal,"
safe, predictable. Without the tiny minority of Beats attacking that
message, and specifically without On The Road to chronicle that attack,
the cultural revolution of the 1960's would have been even more
difficult than it was, and perhaps less effective. Good, bad, or ugly,
we must embrace this story.
<|_=00=_|>
I will try to be as short as I can be in my review, but I am just very
surprised about the very positive reviews on IMDb. For me this was
another huge disappointment. yes there are great landscapes, the
photography is nice and the actors surely are OK, the music is often
inspiring, but even if the movie basically tells the same events as in
the book, I found it pretty boring, and above all the spirit of the
book, about freedom etc, was completely gone. Too many scenes are just
taken inside hotels rooms, houses etc, isn't this movie entitled on the
road? Again, regarding the spirit of freedom, in the book surely wasn't
all about sex and multiple partners etc, because that's not at all the
freedom Jack Kerouac was talking about when he wrote it, these
components have been way too much highlighted. I am sorry but I left
the cinema pretty disappointed, if we had to wait all these year for a
version of the book, and this is the result, well it would have been
better to only have the book.
<|_=00=_|>
The On The Road novel has inspired numerous readers, myself included to
take an American road trip. Will the film have the same effect? I
sincerely doubt it. And herein lays the problem. Whilst the book takes
the reader on an exuberant, spirited journey full of life, the film
puzzlingly slows the pace right down and presents a muted, almost
depressed version of the same story.

This is best illustrated by the presentation of the character of Dean
Moriarty. He should be the driving force of the story, pushing the
storyline on with his crazed excitement for the good and bad in life.
On the printed page he can barely speak fast enough to get all his
thoughts out. However in the film he huffs and puffs his way from one
scene to the next, speaking in a laconic drawl, whilst lacking all the
charm and charisma that is supposed to make him so alluring. He is the
muse for the writer character of Sal, but anyone coming to the film
fresh without having read the book, may well struggle to understand
why.

The film lacks a rounded sense of the hedonistic side of the journey.
The sex is arguably overplayed and whilst there is some drugs and jazz,
there is little of the booze. Crucially the characters rarely seem to
be having a good time. The film seems to focus on the melodramatic,
miserable aspects of the characters lives at the destinations they
travel to, but fails to contrast this with wild and exciting times
spent on the road. The film does not convey a sense of travelling for
the journeys sake; they always just seem to be in the car in order to
get to another destination. The only time the film gets anywhere near
the free spirited adventure of the book is when the characters reach
Mexico in the later stages of the film, but this is too little too
late.

I did wonder whether the muted atmosphere of the film was a deliberate
ploy of the filmmakers, however the last ten minutes would indicate
not. Here we see the character of Sal typing up the notes he has made
during the road trips, seemingly franticly typing to capture all the
wild, fun, crazy times had on the road. However this does not reflect
what the viewer has just witnessed on screen for the past two hours.

Taken on its own terms the film does offer fine cinematography, costume
and the look of the time, as well as some decent acting (hence my score
of 5 out of 10). However as an adaption of a seminal piece of
literature, it deserves to be judged against the source material and in
not capturing the true spirit of the book, it is a big fail.
<|_=00=_|>
For the record, I'm a big Kerouac fan. However, I don't think On the
Road was his best work. I like his later, more introspective writing,
but I know I'm in the minority here. There's a good reason why we had
to wait so long for a screen version of On the Road. Impossible as it
may be to believe, some novels are not written with potential movie
rights in mind. On the Road is a sometimes rambling, stream of
consciousness, string of vignettes without a clear goal in mind. It is
a novel about hedonistic-death-driving on America's highways in a quest
for life and a run from it. For the members of Kerouac's (Sal
Paradise's) group, life is controlled self-destruction because death is
preferable to boredom. These attitudes spring from the times in which
the reality of potential nuclear disaster hung over the nation and the
attitudes so induced found expression in youth who turned the
directionlessness of life into life for the moment.

Making a film on such a book requires selection. Kerouac's hedonistic
rampage across America, as selected by director Walter Salles, looks
more mindless and sex-spiced than it did in the novel. Kerouac, as we
see in his later works, was a hedonist with a conscience; a deadly
combination which likely led to him drinking himself to death. Director
Salles sees what he wants to see, a sex-crazed, drug-crazed,
two-dimensional man. If this was truly the man represented in the
novel, the novel would not have had the enduring quality that has made
it literature.

I liked the way the 1950s was captured in the film. It was as close to
perfection as you could get. The importance of jazz with its
improvisation mirrors the lives of the travelers. The acting is good
but the interaction is not. Maybe that was the point. There is no need
for interaction in an age when the highest morality was based on
selfishness. The movie may be okay to watch once, but I would prefer
not to go down this road again.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a confession: I've read the novel by Kerouac twice, but wasn't
rally impressed. I could appreciate the sense of freedom and endless
opportunities, and the effect this must have had on the generation of
the fifties and sixties, but I also found the story tedious after the
first few chapters. 

So I was curious about the movie: would Walter Salles be able to turn
this legendary but rather monotonous novel into a good film? The
answer, unfortunately is: no. In short, the films shows a bunch of
young people enjoying booze, dope, girls, jazz, speeding and
shoplifting. They go from one city to another, but it doesn't really
matter: wherever they are, they do the same things. After the first
hour, you start to hope for some story development, but there is none.
This is especially annoying because the movie goes on for more than two
hours. In the end, it's just a repetition of the same themes in
different settings. 

The film follows the book rather scrupulously, and I think this is a
wrong choice. The book needs more adaptation to make it suitable for
the big screen. More than anything else, it needs a plot. 

Of course, there are also positive things about the movie. It's a nice
period film about the forties. The acting is fine, with good
performances by Twilight-famed Kristen Stewart and especially Garrett
Hedlund, a lesser known actor who could be quite a revelation. 

This film will certainly not become as legendary in cinematography as
the book has become in literature. But then again, that's almost
impossible.
<|_=00=_|>
The nutshell people, is this: the screenwriter, director and producer
all fail to grasp the existential nature of Kerouac's writing which
was, and still is, its whole point.

To get the novel you need to blur your focus slightly, think about the
more esoteric and the context of the time of when it was written.
Kerouac put forth his own personal spiritual reality and also that of
the spiritual connection between himself and other characters without
implying how he, or the reader, should be thinking or feeling which
leaves the reader resonating with philosophical questions. Does
anything mean anything? Does loving someone who doesn't return that
love mean anything? What is love? Are we just pawns in a greater
spiritual reality? Should we care? If so, why?

The book and these questions were part of a spark that started a shift
towards youthful self-consciousness, greater questioning of western
life and human realities that has endured to the present day. 

This aspect of Kerouac's work is the quintessential element his
admirers praise and respect him for and this movie fails completely to
illustrate this most important part. In fact it seems as though it was
not even attempted or omitted on purpose. 

The movie also fails to illustrate the broader context of the time it
was written as well: the concept of piercing through the two
dimensional American cultural reality of the time and breaking through
into a freer space, rebelling against the rules society has laid down
for you and in turn sparking thoughts in people's minds of how the
future could be one where minds were more open, standards were
questioned and prejudices overcome. This same shift in thinking and
questioning contemporaneous norms added fuel to the fires of the Civil
Rights Movement and the Anti- War Movement. Kerouac was someone who
helped spark a wave that reached its peak in the late 60s over a decade
after the publishing of On The Road but disappointingly you will get
none of this from the movie. 

Instead, this movie stands for everything the book doesn't; a dressed
up, soulless vacuum of a period piece that doesn't really go anywhere
with any discernible purpose. It alienates the viewer within the first
half dozen scenes instead of drawing them in with that friendly 'best-
buddy-you-never-had' Kerouac familiarity. 

Many people new to the Beats and to Kerouac will leave this movie
feeling that they just don't get what all the fuss was about and that's
because this movie goes nowhere near doing justice to either of these
institutions. 

For Kerouac 'true believers' (of which I am obviously one) who respect
the importance of his work, this movie will be an affront as it is
brought to the screen by people who were not capable of representing
him or the work on screen.

For road trip fans this movie will hit most of the right buttons and
therefore there will be some positive reviews as you see here. 

My feeling is that regardless of previous achievements and my
overwhelming respect for producer and director, the makers of this film
should be ashamed of themselves in bringing this movie to the screen
without capturing the soul of the book and the man who wrote it. You
can only assume that they didn't get that aspect or chose to leave it
out because it was too hard to realise. However, I simply cannot
believe Coppola viewed this film in its entirety prior to release and
Salles seems to have over-estimated his ability to turn this seminal,
universal masterpiece into a movie. It simply just isn't worthy.
<|_=00=_|>
Hemingway was terrified of being boring. Compared to Hemingway, Kerouac
was completely & utterly fearless.

So let's take a page out one of Kerouac's best books, start at the
beginning, & let the truth seep out.

I first encountered "On the Road" in the public library when I was in
6th grade. It spawned a fascination, an obsession, an addiction.
Between the age of 12 & 18, outside of school, the Beat writers were
all that I read. I devoured them. And in the years since my youth
Kerouac has morphed from an obsession to a comfort author, I read him
to help cushion the blows life brings. "Maggie Cassidy," is still my
favorite.

That being said, I walked into this flick with extremely low
expectations. I'm more than familiar with the source material &
couldn't see how it could translate into anything but a dull film. I
expected the film to stagnate. I wasn't really disappointed in this.
Anyone that has read "On the Road" has to question the wisdom of
attempting to translate that into a decent movie.

Like the novel, there are parts of this film you just have to fight
through in the hopes that he'll move off his love for grape picking &
into something interesting again.

The plus side is, once you make it past the stagnation, the plot picks
up again & you feel the sense of freedom having overcome the monotony
of Kerouac. But on the other-hand, I'm fairly certain that's the point.

The bottom line is that if you are familiar with Travelin' Jack you
know what to expect before you walk into the film & you walk out with
an experience far better than you would have thought it's be. It's an
enjoyable film.

However, if you're like most of the world & for some reason do not
read, you'll be expecting the legend without understanding the reality
& you will hate it, for no other reason than the lack of background
necessary to expect Kerouac to be, well, Kerouac.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie yesterday in a art-house cinema. It's a lovely
setting for this movie, small and intimate, I don't think big cinematic
rooms with a 100 muttering teens won't do this movie any justice. 

Before I start off, I haven't read the book so I won't judge on how
well it's transfered to a script. To me, maybe because I haven't read
the book the movie was quite difficult to follow as it felt that a true
story line was missing. it was just a bunch of lost youngsters trying
to find the essence of living a life. The whole movie felt like
somebody was telling a story about how to make and loose friends in a
split decision and how to ruin your life royally. 

I absolutely loved Tom Sturridge. He plays this gay poet with so much
depth and essence. You can see he really tries to feel what Carlo has
felt.

I also think it was one of Kristen Stewart's best performances. the way
her story flows through the movie is refreshing. You see Marylou grow
and develop the realization that even with all the living, life filled
with sex and drugs isn't full filling her needs and that she needs
more. It's well played and Stewart just embodies the sexuality that is
needed in this movie.

I loved Hedlund's performance... he was clear in his emotions. though I
really didn't like the character, Hedlund made me feel sorry for him in
the end. 

I have to admit I was a bit disappointed by Riley's performance. I felt
it lacked emotional dept at moments were I thought it had to be more.
especially the moments he spend behind the typing machine or with his
family. 

Overall it was not my type of movie but a good choice if you want
something different than the straight forward happy ending
blockbusters...
<|_=00=_|>
What a brilliant adaptation!

The very beginning of the movie sets the tone, and shows Kerouac
walking, and walking, different locations.

From this very beginning, Walter Salles captures the essence itself of
Kerouac's work. 

He may not stick to every passage of it, which would probably prove
quite tedious to follow in a movie, yet he keeps what is necessary, the
essence, the purpose of it all. Living fully, enjoying life to its
fullest.

Sam Riley as Jack Kerouac is incredible, a raspy voice, gleeful,
mischievous, eyes full of sparkle, he makes it entirely believable, and
is highly likable.

Garrett Hedlund, a very talented actor (as he has proved it in Death
Sentence, Four Brothers) shines bright as Neal Cassady, full of
charisma, virility, and true madness. There is a fantastic energy
absolutely suited to the character, a very difficult character to
portray, a madman.

Hedlund is an absolute standout and is both riveting and heartbreaking,
notably so at the end of the movie.

Kristen Stewart is glowing, both beautiful and highly sensual (very
torrid scenes showcase this), she proves something that most people
seem to have forgotten with the Twilight series, that she is extremely
talented.

Tom Sturridge is impressive as Allen Gisberg, both vulnerable and crazy
in a sense. 

The cinematography is outstanding, and it is a sight to behold,
beautiful landscapes, a smooth, delicate filmic texture. 

This movie will divide, whether people appreciate the book, or they
don't.

It leaves a mark on me, it goes to my heart, as the book did. 

As Jack repeats those last words "I think of Dean Moriarty, I think of
Dean Moriarty", intertwined with Neal looking afar, tears running down,
my heart sinks, riveted as I am, as if paralyzed by those last words,
my eyes fixated on the screen, I can't move because I think of Dean
Moriarty, I think of Neal Cassady.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the aspects this film really lacked was an understanding of the
zeitgeist of Beat America in the late forties and fifties of Post-World
War Two America. The conservative middle class that Ronald Reagan
defended was in full swing and there were those who did not fit in and
did not know where to go, and this is where the Beats fit in. It was L
seven heaven square land and people with creative vision didn't have
the flavor for materialism. The idea in the mind was just as secure as
house in the suburbs. Plus I saw no James Joycean stream of
consciousness with the speed, booze and the jazz. Where was the poetry?
You see people moving around, dancing, snapping fingers and being "hip"
but no expression of what was going on within. The characters I saw
were 21st century self-centered users, dopers, and boozers who could
not afford a day of tasting wine in Napa Valley, so it's everyone
else's fault. The most real character in the film that captures the
sense of the time was Viggo Mortensen's Old Bull Lee/William S.
Burroughs. That worked. Carlo Marx, the Ginsberg attempt should have
been called Harpo Marx. I was howling at the idea that this was suppose
to be the person that wrote Howl. The art direction and cinematography
did keep me watching instead of leaving. But remember, it does say
based on the book On The Road.
