
Scary Movie 4. Is it an example of good film-making? No. Will future
film students study this movie and its revolutionary techniques? No.
Could I have written this script in half an hour while stoned? Yes. Can
I remember the last time I laughed this hard? No.

The key to enjoying a Scary Movie is to see it as a series of sketches
based on popular movies, rather than a stand-alone film. The spoofs are
extremely obvious and require as little thought to understand as it
must have taken to write them. But as far as juvenile humour and crude
visual jokes go, David Zucker does it right. You might question
Zucker's actual skills as a director, but I dare you to call any of his
movies unfunny. 

Another reviewer mentioned that he missed the Wayans' style of comedy
and brought up the scene where a blind Carmen Electra mistakes a church
seat for a toilet as one of the funny scenes. Funny how I thought that
was the only scene in the entire movie where the comedy fell on its
face. The Wayans' relied far too much on lame sexual humour and
gross-out jokes and I enjoy slapstick far more than that.

Not that Scary Movie 4 doesn't have its fair share of (hilarious) crude
jokes. I won't spoil all the fun for you, so I'll just mention my
favourite: Charlie Sheen, haunted by his past, tries to commit suicide,
unfortunately the sleeping pills he swallowed turn out to be Viagra.
That's the level of the humour in this movie, and if you are
entertained by violent slapstick, people getting hit by cars, sexual
jokes, and brilliant dialogue such as:

"I saw this face..." 

"With a nose?" 

"Yes." 

"Hmm. Sounds like a face."

...then this movie is worth buying a ticket for. But if you can't stand
lowbrow, dirty, and obvious comedy, you better stay away. Personally I
thought 4 was the funniest in the entire series, after #3. If a movie
can make me laugh for an hour and 22 minutes, I can't hate it. While
Scary Movie 4 definitely isn't a "good" movie, it's hard to put down
comedy this funny. Craig Bierko does a very good Tom Cruise impression,
as well. If you liked the other movies, especially 3, this is a must
see.

Dirty, juvenile comedy is rarely this funny. Strongly recommended if
you're in the mood.(r#16)
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film a little hesitantly...How can there possibly be a
fourth Scary Movie that still keeps its humour? Well, it was (half)
possible. Although the overall structure isn't as tight as the other
three, the jokes are often still 'fresh' and there's a lot of
slapstick, which, although predictable, is still funny! Anna Faris
(Cindi), as always, is still on top form, as is Regina Hall (Brenda)
and together, they deliver some fantastic comedy. 

If you're looking for a new, original comedy, perhaps this isn't for
you. However, if you're a fan of Scary Movie 1, 2 and 3, then how could
you boycott this one?! Go for it, even if it's only 80 minutes for a
laff and a haff!
<|_=00=_|>
After reading many reviews from people who said Scary Movie 4 was crap,
I was reluctant to go and see it. But I did, and take my word for it,
it was well worth it.

Scary Movie 4 was hilarious. I can't remember the last time I laughed
so hard. Its parodies of films such as "The Grudge", "War of the
Worlds", "Brokeback Mountain", "Saw I and II", and "The Village" and
many others work well to make an entertaining 80 minute movie. And lets
not forget the parodies of celebrities, which includes Tom Cruise and
Micheal Jackson.

The Plot Basically goes like this: The dumb witted Cindy Campbell (Anna
Farris) has taken up a job as a house caretaker for a old lady that is
said to be cursed. While she is doing her job she discovers that the
house is haunted by a ghostly little boy. But thats not all. Giant
Tripods are coming out of the ground and killing everyone, and aliens
are taking over the world. With the help of newly befriended neighbor
and failed father Tom Ryan, Cindy sets out to get some answers on a
long hilarious journey...

Scary Movie 4 is a silly movie. If want a deep, thoughtful film that
makes you think, this is definitely not for you. If you want a few good
laughs then this is what you're looking for. Just empty out your brain
and enter the cinema or put in the DVD. I almost didn't see it, and if
I had I would have unknowingly regretted it.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie with very low expectations. After watching the
trailers, I thought this looked pretty lame and a real waste of money.
Boy was I wrong!! This turned out to be an extremely funny movie, which
does an extremely good job at parodying movies such as Saw, Saw II, The
Village, The Grudge and War of the Worlds.

This movie has a plot, but it is all over the place. It starts off with
Dr. Phil and Shaq chained in a bathroom, for anyone thats seen Saw,
they cram the bathroom scenes into a 2 minutes. We then go to our hero
from the first three, Cindy Campbell (Anna Faris), who has taken a job
looking after an old lady in an old mansion. She meets Tom Ryan (Craig
Bierko) and they bond pretty quickly. A few days later the world is
under attack by TrIpods. Cindy and an old friend, Brenda Meeks (Regina
Hall) go on a quest to try and defeat the aliens.

As I said before, I was VERY surprised by this movie. I found myself
cracking up at most of the jokes, some of which were very clever take
offs. The acting is OK (Leslie Nielson particularly funny as the whack
President of America) for this type of movie and we shall be expecting
a fifth installment shortly. I would rank this second out of the
series, just under the first one.

3½/5.
<|_=00=_|>
The Scary Movie parody wagon has been rolling since 2000, when the
Wayans Brothers pooled their considerable comedic talents and came up
with a kitchen sink flick that riffed on mainly horror movies  with
just a little Matrix thrown in. The second Scary Movie, also from the
brothers Wayan, riffed on The Exorcist, The Legend of Hell House,
Poltergeist, Little Shop of Horrors, A Nightmare on Elm Street, The
Shining, and Hannibal. Non-horror targets included Dirty Harry,
Charlie's Angels, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, and again, The Matrix.

A couple of years passed, and the directorial torch was passed to
Airplane! genius-with-a-joke David Zucker for Scary Movie 3. Without
Wayans, the genre widened a bit to add even more non-horror movie
spoofs and much more current films. It was a box-office hit, so of
course you knew what was coming

Scary Movie 4, with all the core regulars back in action, makes fun of
War of the Worlds, The Grudge, The Village, Saw and Saw II, Million
Dollar Baby, and Brokeback Mountain. With a better through-line
connecting all the stories than its predecessor, Scary Movie 4 is a
refreshing (albeit rank) addition to the series. Anna Faris and Regina
Hall are back as the clueless Cindy Campbell, and the sex-crazed Brenda
Meeks, respectively.

When Cindy takes a job as the caretaker of an elderly woman (Cloris
Leachman), she runs into some scary ghosts with a grudge. But things
start looking up when she meets her handsome new neighbor, Tom Ryan
(Craig Bierko). Unfortunately, Tom is distracted by troubles of his own
 namely a bitter ex-wife, two clingy kids, and, oh yeah: An alien
invasion, sparked by the ground-breaking appearance of the "iPods".
When Tom, his family, and Cindy are forced to flee and find a way to
beat the huge, deadly alien-machines, they take a few side-trips.

One such trip takes Cindy and her best friend Brenda into The Village,
a place where time stands still and the resident blind girl (Carmen
Electra) can't find the outhouse. Returnees from Scary Movie 3 include
Charlie Sheen (spoofing Bill Pullman The Grudge; turnabout is fair
play, so Bill Pullman is also in Scary Movie 4), Simon Rex, Leslie
Neilsen as our Commander in Chief, and Anthony Anderson and Kevin Hart
who've changed their Eight Mile tune to the Brokeback Mountain
hoe-down/get down.

I was impressed not only by the logical knitting of the story lines
(only Brokeback Mountain is forced to fit, but it's okay as a
flashback), but by the attention to detail. The sets and set design,
especially for The Grudge and Saw, are flawless and even the costumes
are perfectly fitted to the characters for each skit.

The only bet they really missed was a zombie movie spoof (when Brenda
returns from the dead  The Ring curse killed her in Scary Movie 3 
it's just glossed over).

Despite too much scatological humor (just a personal bias of mine),
Scary Movie 4 is a laugh-out-loud funny, well-directed and well-acted
comedy that's a perfect kick-off to the summer popcorn season. To say
much more would spoil the surprises, so all I'll say is: If you like
the Scary Movie franchise, be sure and catch this one on the big
screen.
<|_=00=_|>
It was rather funny, as to be expected the jokes were hit and miss with
there being more hits than misses for me. I thought once again it could
have been funnier and there were some unnecessary jokes, but all in all
it was a rather funny flick. This one actually plays like a sequel as
characters from the previous flick are explained why they aren't here
rather than just being ignored all together. For this one the required
viewing or basic knowledge of a movie that you need for this one is
mainly "Saw", "The Grudge", "The Village", "Million Dollar Baby", and
for me the best one "War of the Worlds" (a movie that needed some fun
poked at it). There is also something in there making a bit of fun of a
movie pretty much you don't need to have seen are know all that much
about...you will get it as long as you watch a bit of television. The
"War of the Worlds" to me seems to be the main film parodied, however
the other films get their fair share of the jokes as well. The opening
is rather funny with Shaq and Dr. Phil doing a "Saw" recreation and
there are other celebrities who make short visits as well however it is
still the same group who forms the core of the cast. Worth a look see,
however, if you did not care for "Scary Movie 3" I would say you
probably won't like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Its pointless trying to analyse this film as some reviewers have
obviously tried to do here. Its not hilarious by any means but it does
pass an amusingly enjoyable 80 minutes of time. The gags are mostly
clichéd and predictable, there's lots of tired old slapstick but when
there's nothing else on TV (which is why I watched this) it certainly
fits the bill. As for the appearance of 'Michael Jackson' in the film,
I'm still laughing every time I think about it - heaven knows how they
got away with it, but its certainly a funny moment!! Im' glad that I
had seen all the films that this tries to spoof and the re-creation of
the sets for War of the Worlds is fantastic. Its so close to the
original.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading many reviews from people who said Scary Movie 4 was crap,
I was reluctant to go and see it. But I did, and take my word for it,
it was well worth it. 

Scary Movie 4 was hilarious. I can't remember the last time I laughed
so hard. Its parodies of films such as "The Grudge", "War of the
Worlds", "Brokeback Mountain", "Saw I and II", and "The Village" and
many others work well to make an entertaining 80 minute movie. And lets
not forget the parodies of celebrities, which includes Tom Cruise and
Micheal Jackson.

The Plot Basically goes like this: The dumb witted Cindy Campbell (Anna
Farris) has taken up a job as a house caretaker for a old lady that is
said to be cursed. While she is doing her job she discovers that the
house is haunted by a ghostly little boy. But thats not all. Giant
Tripods are coming out of the ground and killing everyone, and aliens
are taking over the world. With the help of newly befriended neighbor
and failed father Tom Ryan, Cindy sets out to get some answers on a
long hilarious journey...

Scary Movie 4 is a silly movie. If want a deep, thoughtful film that
makes you think, this is definitely not for you. If you want a few good
laughs then this is what you're looking for. Just empty out your brain
and enter the cinema or put in the DVD. I almost didn't see it, and if
I had I would have unknowingly regretted it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard the buzz about this film being a bit crappy, but had to go
check it out anyways. I have to admit that I laughed out loud a lot
throughout the film. The plot involves Cindy Campell, star of all the
previous Scary movie films, moving into a new house. But there are
bigger problems than the job of house cleaning, as she soon find out
her house is haunted by a little boy. To make matters worse, alien
"TrIpods" are taking over the world. How is she ever going to escape
this scenario? Scary movie 4 is filled with laughs, but cheap laughs as
you would expect from a Scary Movie film, but it doesn't make it not
fun to watch. So if you find yourself bored with nothing to do...why
not see a funny flick. Definitely entertaining and will pass the time.
My vote for this film is 6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
The unemployed Cindy Campbell (Anna Farris) is hired to work in a
cursed house as caretaker of an old lady and meets the ghost of a boy.
Meanwhile, the teenager son Robbie and the young daughter Rachel of his
next door neighbor and crane operator Tom Ryan (Craig Bierko) are
spending the weekend with their loser father. Cindy and Tom meet and
fall in love for each other, but when Giant Tripods invade Earth, Tom
escapes with Robbie and Rachel; Cindy travels to a village, trying to
find the answer to a riddle to save the world; and the president of USA
organizes the defense of the planet in UN under his intelligence and
leadership.

As I have previously wrote, parody movies are always of the type 'love
or hate' it. I am not intellectual, I love cinema as culture, but also
as entertainment, so I like this genre. Further, when I see this type
of movie, I know exactly what I am going to see: scatological jokes,
funny and surrealistic references to other films and definitely a movie
that will never be indicated for an Oscar.

I found this "Scary Movie 4" also very funny. The screenplay is a big
joke with the remake of "War of the Worlds", entwined with "The Grudge"
and "The Village". It also satirizes "Saw" and "Saw 2", "Brokeback
Mountain" and "Million Dollar Baby". There are also references to the
American pop culture that I unfortunately have not understood, like for
example Dr. Phil, the Oprah talk show in the end (see Obs.) or Bruce
the Bed King. Leslie Nielsen is hilarious in the role of the smart
president.

This is the type of movie that you must shut down your brain and start
laughing. What I do not understand and really irritates me are the
reviews of persons that should never watch this type of movie. What do
they expect to see when they go to the movie theaters or buy / rent a
DVD called "Scary Movie 4" ("the last part of a trilogy"), directed by
David Zucker and with Leslie Nielsen and Anna Farris in the cast? An
art movie, with hidden messages, an epic, a classic or a film with
politically correct jokes? Honestly, if I did not like this genre, I
would never spend my time watching it. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): 'Todo Mundo em Pânico 4' ('Everybody in Panic 4')

Obs: My son has just forwarded "Tom Cruise Freakin Out On Oprah" in
Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M08PfuP_NXs
