
Set in modern-day New York City, a heterogeneous group of straights,
gays and transgenders find common ground at Shortbus, an underground
salon where people are free to explore their most carnal sexual desires
with random hookups and nightlong orgies  sometimes even finding bits
of wisdom along the way.

The superb cast of characters of John Cameron Mitchell's "Shortbus"
powerfully draws the viewer in to each of the characters' lives and
problems. Sofia (Sook-Yin Lee), a sex therapist who's never had an
orgasm, seeks out ways to overcome her "pre-orgasmic" dilemma,
profoundly affecting her marriage. James (Paul Dawson), a former male
escort battling depression, goes to ultimate extremes when he can't
even seem to feel happiness with his loving and devoted partner of five
years, Jamie (PJ DeBoy). Struggling artist Severin (Lindsay Beamish),
who succumbed to work as a dominatrix, seeks to have a meaningful
relationship with someone  anyone.

Yes, the on-screen sex is real. And there's lots of it. But rather than
displaying sexually explicit scenes for the sake of cheap titillation,
"Shortbus" is provocative with an actual purpose. We're not in
Hollywood anymore.

While sex is a main focal point in the film, it is not the sole one.
"Shortbus" deals with all manners of human relations. Not stressing one
form over another, it shows how sex, friendship and love continually
intermingle. Because one's comfort level with their sexuality mirrors
how one relates in all other relationships, showing the raw and carnal
aspect of each character so explicitly works beautifully to accurately
convey their motivations and struggles.

In a touching conversation, an old man identifying himself as the
former mayor of New York says to the young and naive Ceth (Jay
Brannan), "People come to New York to get laid ... People also come to
New York to be forgiven." The latter can also be said for those who
elect to see this film. Whether dealing with sexual oppression,
struggling with sexual desires deemed socially deviant, seeking
redemption for having already been there and done that, or feeling
generally unaccepted for being who you are, the redemption value in
this film is tenderly perceptible. "Shortbus" lets us know that gay,
straight, bi, transgender, whatever  we all just want to feel
accepted.
<|_=00=_|>
What everyone will hear about "Shortbus" is that the sex is real and
explicit. Yes, this is all true. But so is the emotional journey the
characters go through. 

Far from being crude or offensive, Shortbus is fresh, insightful,
celebratory -- and, most importantly, focused on the fully realized
people, not just the bodies, who bare their flesh and feelings on
screen. Like Michael Winterbottom, who made the explicit "9 Songs,"
writer/director John Cameron Mitchell says he wants to show true human
sexuality as part of his story. Unlike "9 Songs," which seemed to focus
on 1/8 of the full human experience of relationships (concerts and
sex), Mitchell's "Shortbus" approaches 9/10 of the authentic experience
of being human, being miserable, looking to come to joy, and exploring
funny, sensual, and affectionate avenues to get there.

Is "Shortbus" provocative? Yes. Is it explicit? Yes! And these are good
things in these politically authoritarian times.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a couple of features about this movie that will hit you. Yes
there is some rather graphic sex, but to anyone after hitting adulthood
it works purely to support the film, erotic would be too strong a word
for it. It is to everybody's' credit that this was possible. The model
of New York works great and is a real devise for the movie.

As we progress through the film we see the lives of a small group of
New Yorkers grow as they develop their relationships or indeed the
quest for a relationship. The medium for bringing these lives together
is the "Shortbus" club. A rather carnal club which they all drawn to
becomes a focus for their development. Each confronts their own
particular daemons. As heavy as this sounds, it is quite a light
hearted film. The closing scenes are fantastic. As you watch this film
you will feel yourself being dragged in, until the end when u feel
almost as if you are part of it.

A great movie, one which should become a cult classic (only because it
might be a bit too "graphic" for mainstream cinemas, but certainly a
classic. Any attempt to sanitize and edit it would surely destroy the
film.

This movie will make you laugh, cry and sing; you will leave the movie
theatre affected by this film.
<|_=00=_|>
A married sex therapist doles out relationship advice at work but
privately spends her time in search of an orgasm, which she's never
had. Two gay men find themselves drifting from one another and
introduce a third man into their relationship in an attempt to bring
some fulfillment back to their emotional connection. A professional
dominatrix excels at abusing clients, but brings that abusive behavior
to her personal relationships as well and as a result isolates herself
from any true human contact. Meanwhile, all of these characters meet
regularly at Shortbus, a sex club where everyone is free to be whatever
they want to be, where no one's a freak because everyone's a freak, and
where, most importantly, everyone feels a sense of community in a scary
post-9/11 world.

Such is "Shortbus," John Cameron Mitchell's emotionally affecting
follow up film to his dazzling debut, "Hedwig and the Angry Inch." By
now, everyone knows that "Shortbus" contains many scenes of quite
explicit sex. As happens with any more conventional film that contains
material we are used to seeing only in bona fide pornography, the sex
tends to dominate on a first viewing; it's so hard not to be distracted
by the explicit scenes and ignore the other things going on. However,
it is to Mitchell's great credit that I left the film not remembering
the sex as much as I remembered some of the beautiful emotional
moments, of which "Shortbus" is chock full.

I saw a screening of this at the Chicago International Film Festival,
and two of the actors, Sook-Yin Lee and Lindsay Beamish, were on hand
to answer questions. Lee explained what Mitchell was trying to do with
this film, and I greatly admire his ambition. She said that he was
trying to make an antidote to all of the other films out there that
treat sex just as explicitly but in such more negative ways. Sex in our
movie culture is usually full of dysfunction -- if it's not downright
harmful, it's at best desultory and unsatisfying (think "9 Songs"). Our
culture condones graphic violence in films, many times in combination
with sex, but squirms away from sex as it really looks, even though
it's one of the most natural of human functions. Mitchell wanted to
illuminate this hypocrisy and show that sex can be fun, sex can bring
people together, sex can make you laugh. It can't necessarily solve
problems, as the characters in this film realize, but it doesn't always
have to necessarily cause problems either.

My biggest complaint about "Shortbus" is that I felt somewhat left out.
As a heterosexual male, I don't feel that I was represented by any of
the film's characters. Mitchell, as a gay man, obviously has an
understanding of gay relationships, and the storyline with the three
gay lovers is handled beautifully. But I felt that Mitchell was
stereotyping heterosexual relationships in the same way that
heterosexuals stereotype gays. The married couple is bored,
unfulfilled, caustic with one another. Lee's character can't achieve
orgasm until she comes to a sex club and gets it on with another woman.
Just once, can't a film show a heterosexual couple who are happy and
having a completely satisfying emotional and sexual relationship? I
know this wouldn't make for great drama, but it would at least make me
feel better.

I really liked "Shortbus" without feeling that it was a complete
bulls-eye for Mitchell. At the very least, he has an outstanding talent
and has proved himself to be a young filmmaker to watch.

Grade: A-
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant directing and writing by John Cameron Mitchell (he gave us
"Hedwig"), and great acting from everyone, especially Justin Bond,
Lindsay Beamish, Paul Dawson and PJ Deboy. Great musical numbers too!
You'll laugh and cry, and come away wanting to see it again
immediately. Much has been made of a few rather intimate and well-lit
sex scenes, but if anyone over 16 can't handle them, he or she
shouldn't be out at night. 

It's all ultimately wondrous, and one of the great revelations of the
2006 Cannes Film Festival, where the audiences tend to be snotty and
conspicuously unimpressed--but the screening of this movie was followed
by parades and parties in the streets, with people carrying the stars
on their shoulders, like they used to do with Verdi on opening nights
in Milan. Lynne Cheney, sly pornographer that she is, will be eating
her heart out that someone has gotten at last to the real g-spot of the
cosmos, and it wasn't she what did it. 

Love may be grim at times, kind of like Kansas, but Mitchell turns it
into technicolor. Just like magic.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night I went to see a screening of Shortbus; John Cameron
Mitchell's follow-up to Hedwig and the Angry Inch and it was the most
joyful movie experience I've had in ages. There is something audacious
and exciting going on here... something that maybe hasn't been seen in
American film since the 60's. Shortbus is laugh-out-loud funny and
sink-in-your-seat to hide your tears sad. There's a message of
'acceptance' and 'we're all in this together' to be received... you
just have to want to hear it (and that, in itself, will present a
problem to a fair number of moviegoers who are just unable to let it
in.) The explicit sex isn't just a gimmick... it really feels like it
comes from an honest place with these characters. It's playful when it
needs to be, angry at other times, sometimes it's tentative and unsure.
Just like how it is in real life (as opposed to porn) which is why it
works so well.
<|_=00=_|>
Shortbus reviewed by Sam Osborn

I have a bad feeling that after the first ten minutes of Shortbus are
through, much of the audience will have already left; because within
this first segment, sophomore director John Cameron Mitchell has the
mind to show his audience the nature of this very, ahemfrank work.
Audiences will have witnessed filmed masturbation, wild fornication in
a myriad of poses, and a scene of S&M sexual nature. These are all acts
we've seen before from other Hollywood pictures; but then again, those
pictures only played pretend. Shortbus requires all its actors to do
such acts for real. 

Is Porn too strong a word to describe such a film? It's debatable, I
suppose. Films that boast actual penetration are usually not found in
theatres anymore; instead hidden in the back of your video rental
stores, or placed neatly on a shady internet site. But Pornography uses
plot mechanisms only to drive the story into another sex scene.
Shortbus has plot mechanisms to drive the arcs of its characters. That
its characters all play roles indulgent in fornication is simply the
nature of Shortbus' stories. But enough about the ethics of Shortubus;
it's a good film. And if you're not too squeamish for the subject
matter, and have a mind for tongue-in-cheek wit, then it shouldn't
matter how close to porn the film means to aim. 

It's a story of New Yorkers. A fringe group of New Yorkers who all meet
at the underground lounge Shortbus. It's a place of casual frivolity,
where people of any sexual preference are free to indulge in whatever
they please. They mingle and dance and drink and have sex, all happily
and without any semblance of filth or vice. These people are simply
enjoying themselves and being quite hilarious while they do it. The
members that we're asked to follow all come from the Magnolia school of
connections, where links between characters are often coincidental and
illogical, but acceptable as obligations of an ensemble drama. Sofia
(Sook-Yin Lee) is a Sex Therapist who prefers to be called a Couples
Councilor and who's unable to have an orgasm. She's invited to Shortbus
by the club's poster child couple, Jamie and Jamie (Paul Dawson and PJ
DeBoy), who assure Sofia that if there's an orgasm to be found, it's
hidden within Shortbus. In a dark room there, Sofia meets Severina
(Lindsay Beamish), a lonely dominatrix who gets mean when
uncomfortable, and whose longest relationship was with the geeky trust
fund sexual deviant. 

All their stories are all human and kind of affecting, managing to dig
their way out of the film's heaping shock factor to create something
like empathy. It's nothing heartbreaking or particularly inspiring, but
how much can we really expect from a film that has an entire scene
dedicated to the National Anthem being sung into an anal orifice. But
that's the charm of Shortbus, I suppose. Director/Writer John Cameron
Mitchell has made a film more explicit than most pornography while
keeping eroticism completely out of the equation. The film's sexuality
is frank and the humor always constant, while avoiding jokes that
patronize its cast of outsiders. 

It's too easy to forget the poignancy of Shortbus, though. The dialogue
that's sure to be shot wild by its release won't be about its humor or
spirit; talk will be of the skin that was exposed in finding the
better, realer bits. It's too bad, but, again, what can we expect from
a film that sings the National Anthem into a man's anus? Rating: 3 out
of 4

Samuel Osborn
<|_=00=_|>
I kinda like porn, I have at least five favourite actresses. The
problem with porn is that it's often just too cheesy and artificial. At
least that's my problem with porn. 

I love watching a good drama, because it's the only genre that takes
its time to make you care about the characters. There's no big problem
regarding dramas, I just wish there are more good ones, with
thought-provoking themes. Sex is a huge part of everyone's life, so
having a life uncensored on screen, with a strong author who has
something to say - now that would be a winner.

So, don't watch Shortbus. It's got nothing of the above.

It tries to shock you, it's got people whining and acting all sad, and
having lots of on-screen sex. But it just doesn't involve you with the
story (was there a story?) and the characters. 

According to reviews, the characters were supposed to be the main thing
about this film. Well, they weren't really. I suppose the author wanted
to make a sex+drama project, and everything else came as an
afterthought. Nothing seems convincing or natural, and around the 30th
minute I started wondering "why am I watching this".

Maybe it's just me, perhaps someone who resembles the characters
depicted in the movie will find it to be great wanking & crying
material.
<|_=00=_|>
The film was extremely disappointing...Cameron Mitchell seemed to be
going through the motions here, I can't believe that the same person
who wrote and directed the amazing "Hedwig and the Angry Inch" made the
ridiculously bad "Shortbus," essentially a pseudo-porn film selling
itself as a character study. In fact, from the first sequence onwards,
JMC's movie delivers sexually graphic scenarios  erections, money
shots and all  illuminated by awfully contrived dialogue, horrid
performances and a plot that is as preposterous/pretentious as it is
tedious.

As the characters struggle to express "profundity" through dialogue,
they instead slip into triteness and cliché, and the emotional
catharsis that seems to be JMC's goal feels absolutely staged and as
cold and dettached as some of the acting.

JMC is apparently trying something serious. He seems to want to show
how certain New Yorkers are coping with the numbed-out sense of
disconnection they've been feeling since Sept. 11. Mitchell takes us
into a world in which sexual behavior is abundant but not always
satisfying, and in which it may be easier to find willing bodies than
genuine intimacy, but it would have helped had the characters in
Shortbus been a little more interesting and appealing than the sexual
positions in which they find themselves.

"It's just like the Sixties, only with less hope," a character tartly
declares at one point. Actually, it's just like the Sixties, only more
clichéd. In a sense it's commendable that JMC wants to promote the joy
of sex, but the movie is a big, pretentious, drawn-out drag, and not
even very original; aspects of its plot can be found both in Oh in Ohio
and Michael Winterbottom's equally hardcore (and more efficient) 9
Songs. JMC really needed to spend a lot more time developing these
characters and their story, because a soap opera with sex is still only
a soap opera. And a sex film without a heart or a brain or compelling
characters is basically, a porn film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Shortbus" is impossible to summarize, and in the future film students
will write books about it. it's hysterically funny, wonderfully smart,
and totally endearing.  It's also been marginalized by an infantile
media that refuses to talk about anything other than the guy who can
"do" himself. Don't fall for their bait: this film is brilliant.

"Shortbus" puts sex in perspective -- as a part of all our lives -- and
thumbs its nose to the puritanical ratings board and to the puritanical
country we live in.  This is a Robert Altmanesque tale of six or seven
young New Yorkers, and being honest it follows their (quirky,
unflinchingly honest, hysterically funny) sex lives too.  It's
wonderful and refreshing and ground-breaking and the bravest film in
years.  It shows America in no uncertain terms that having to cut sex
out of movies to make them "safe" also cuts out their . . . well, I'll
say "guts."

Anyway, run to see it -- in a theater, not on DVD.  It defines our
time. I have no connection with the film, didn't expect to like it, and
didn't like "Hedwig," so I'm astonished that it's the best film of the
year. It's funnier than Woody Allen and seriously hits masterpiece at
points -- though it's admittedly a little ragged, unwieldy and
low-budget.  Lots of quotable lines, but I'll give just one that
beautifully defines our time:  This guy hosts a salon, and a new girl
visits.  In one room there are like thirty people having sex.  "It's
just like the seventies!" the host says brightly.  "Except, without the
hope."
