
I have seen Charlie & The Chocolate Factory last night and though I
usually don't care very much in giving my opinion, the journey M.
Burton and his team made me cross deserves an homage. Especially with
all that criticism rising around the film before it has been released.

I have been a Tim Burton fan for more than a decade now; I grew up with
his films. But what I have been through yesterday his really unique. I
actually never thought he would offer us such a film one day. Fans of
his first period, with all the lonely and desperate characters won't
like it for sure. Since Mars Attacks !, and more specifically since Big
Fish, Burton decided to tell things differently. His vision of the
world slightly changed in every of his films : now, the rejected freak
comes down to the world and stays. A world that remains frightening and
weird even thought we call it "reality" but a world worth living in.
And that's what Charlie & The Chocolate Factory is all about It all
begins with a main title sequence that may be one of the main
weaknesses of the film. The sequence is very entertaining and visually
ambitious but they decided to go with CGI and it looks like it was a
decision they made in last minute. Since the film was proudly made with
"real" sets, "real" Oompas Loompas, "real" squirrels, the main title
looks inappropriate. It's not that important but it's a Tim Burton film
and we know how much he usually works on his main title. Hopefully,
Danny Elfman is there with a crazy mix of the Edward Scissorhands and
Spider-Man (the music when the title of the film appears gave me
shivers), a true musical roller-coaster that gives a hint on what his
score will sound like through the film. 

After that, it's just emotions. All kinds of them: laughs (many  the
audience laughed almost every thirty seconds), tears of joy (we all
know Charlie's gonna find that ticket but when he does, you just can't
refrain your heart to beat faster), mercy (the way Burton depicts the
social misery of the Bucket's family is really touching), amazement
(the Wonka Factory and its many rooms is true wonder, one the most
achieved design Burton ever offered us) and many mores. Very much like
the book, even though it seems simple and childish, you would like to
stop for a second to collect those feelings and try to analyze them but
you don't have the time. It just never stops (I realize it might be a
flaw for some people in fact). Burton never has been so generous in
terms of human warmness.

Johnny Depp proposes another inventive and completely wacky
interpretation here. I won't compare with Gene Wilder since I don't
know the first film very well (pretty unknown flick here in Europe) and
those comparisons should stop anyway. Depp makes of Wonka a tormented
and unadapted character who doesn't know much about common courtesy and
doesn't really care anyway. He built up his own universe in response to
his authoritarian father and he's pretty proud of it. He just doesn't
want those "weird" (a word he likes  you've all seen the TV spots) and
boring parents with their despicable children to ruin what is life is
based on. Yet So Depp's Wonka is actually very moving and pathetic in
his attempts to entertain his visitors. As Burton does everything he
can to make you hate Augustus, Vercua, Violet and Mike at the moment
you first see them, you get instantly closer to Wonka when you noticed
he feels the same. In addition to that, John August's vision of Wonka's
past (including an always perfect cameo by Christopher Lee) offers the
character a real depth you didn't expect.

Danny Elfman is also one of the main attractions of the film. While his
score is already classic Burton/Elfman work with some interesting
experiments (the main themes are splendid), the songs he wrote for the
Oompas Loompas are just so funny. Hugh laughs in the audience for some
musical choices. Those songs don't intend to stay with you for months
(it would have been hard as they're based on Dahl's lyrics that doesn't
allow Broadway impulses), they're just off-beat numbers playing with
many references in so many styles. Oingo Boingo fans have to buy the
soundtrack when it'll come out, it'll bring them back 15 years ago.

What can I tell you more ? McDowell's sets are amazing, Pescucci's work
is impressive as well as Rousselot's beautiful cinematography. Some
Oscar Nominations should fall here.

As for the ending, without revealing it, August's additions are really
touching and fit perfectly to Burton's new approach. Even though the
final shot tempers the "family" theme that he developed through the
film (it's still Burton, not Disney), Burton makes you feel good
because he feels good (and what I'm writing here will ring a bell when
you'll see the movie). I don't know for you but after so many
distressed and pessimistic films, it really moved to see that he found
a certain peace. Charlie and The Chocolate Factory is a step forward in
the direction he gave to his career with Big Fish. He lost his father,
he became one, he's getting older and all those questions and doubts
are expressed in many important and very complex images and scenes he
imagined for the film. That's why I could call this film the "Edward
Scissorhands" of his new period. Those films are very different but
gave me both some very essential emotions.

Thank you, M.Burton. Thank you very much
<|_=00=_|>
Growing up, my favorite book was, easily, "Charlie & the Chocolate
Factory". Roald Dahl's magical tale of a young boy's adventure in the
strange factory was spell-binding. Though I never had a problem with
the original "Willy Wonka" move with Gene Wilder (despite how
unfaithful it was, it was still a cute and heart-warming movie), I was
doing back-flips when I heard Tim Burton, quite possibly my all-time
favorite director, would helm a new version of the movie.

First and foremost, Johnny Depp is perfect as Willy Wonka. What people
don't really pick up from the first movie is that Wonka was intended to
be, well, crazy. He was eccentric and freaky, the way he allowed the
rotten children to get what they deserved and protected his factory
like it was his child. Gene Wilder portrayed Wonka more like a
fatherly-figure, and really was just too nice. Depp pulls out all of
the stops as a new Willy Wonka, though there are times that any
audience member will get just a bit freaked out.

What I loved most about the movie was how faithful it was to the book.
Everything that was mentioned, from the chocolate palace to the hair
toffee, was taken directly from the book. I was incredibly impressed.

This is definitely a movie for everyone, especially those of us who
hold the original tale in our hearts. Wonka chocolate bars for all!
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday I had the pleasure of watching "Charlie & the Chocolate
Factory" at the Wilkinson American Movie Day. And, oh boy, I was in
delight! Don't expect a bleak remake of the amusing (and rather
psychedelic) 1971-version. It is in every way a genuine Tim
Burton-movie, stacked with beautiful imagery, wacky humor and bizarre
characters, but at the same time faithful enough to the spirit of the
novel. Roald Dahl would've been proud. It also features outstanding
performances by the entire cast. Johnny Depp gives us a strange, almost
creepy Willy Wonka, Freddie Highmore is a perfect Charlie, the
Grandparents are lovable and wacky, and the five other children and
their parents are amusingly irritating. And last but not least, an
excellent soundtrack by Mr. Danny Elfman, reminiscent of both Edward
Scissorhands and his early Oingo Boingo-days. Go see this with your
parents, children, grandparents, movie buff-friends, nephews and nieces
... they will be equally delighted!
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton kept saying he wanted to make a version much more faithful
to the source material, which leaves me wondering why he didn't. 

There's the awful (and unnecessary, and counterproductive) back story
showing Wonka's childhood, which is nothing more than an excuse for
Burton to bring in one of his horror movie heroes from childhood
(Christopher Lee) while completely killing any sense of mystery Wonka
might otherwise possess.

I like Johnny Depp, but his Wonka had zero warmth...and was just plain
creepy and random - one minute he's snippy and/or oblivious to the
kids, the next he's paternal, offering Charlie some nourishing hot
chocolate because he "looks like he could use it" (and because it's a
line from the book).

Wonka in the book is a spritely little gent...neither Gene Wilder nor
Johnny Depp are really much like him (much less so Depp), but Wilder's
interpretation always has that twinkle in his eye - you know he's a
little eccentric but he's always in control. The kids in this version
are all pretty good. But Wonka himself? Yikes. Give me Gene Wilder's
version over creepy Johnny Depp's Michael Jackson take any day.

The Oompa-Loompa musical numbers blew. The first one, in the chocolate
room, was okay. But overall, I had a hard time understanding most of
the lyrics. It was all just raucous noise. Come on, Elfman, you can do
better than that.

Wonka telling Charlie he can't bring his family to live with him in the
factory was insane. First of all, it makes Wonka look even more like a
freaky pedophile; second of all - how on earth is that faithful to the
book?!

This is the second time in recent memory I've heard of a
producer/director wooing the widow of a beloved children's book author
and then she deciding that her dead husband would love this new
big-screen version of his source material. 

Somewhere, Dr. Seuss is consoling Roald Dahl.
<|_=00=_|>
I know I'm in the minority here, but I wasn't jumping up and down about
this movie. I loved the book as a child and loved the original film
with Gene Wilder for its own original contributions...perhaps I'm
biased. Still, I have always admired Tim Burton and Johnny Depp's work,
and had been looking forward to this new interpretation of Roald Dahl's
book.

This film was, indeed, more true to the book than the 1971
version...the squirrel room, the jungle scene, the children leaving the
factory, perhaps a little "wiser for the wear." However, the character
development of the 1971 version was MUCH better than here...you were
actually given an opportunity to like or dislike each character,
including Willy Wonka. I did think that Johnny Depp's portrayal of
Wonka was more true to the book than Gene Wilder's...Willy Wonka is
supposed to be quite childish and eccentric. However, I thought that
this film's preoccupation with being true to the book caused it to
overlook what is more important, which is to establish the intentions
of each character. At least in the 1971 version, it's pretty clear what
each character's intentions are...even if establishing some of these
intentions requires a conspiracy involving "Slugworth." And though I
haven't read the book in a very long time, I do NOT remember any
details being given as to Willy Wonka's childhood...I thought these
were unnecessary, distracting, and a waste of time. This energy could
have been better spent on the children's' character development, in my
opinion. This is, after all, supposed to be a story for and about
children.

The oompa loompas. It's true that they are physically portrayed
accurately here more so than in the 1971 version, i.e. very small
people and not midgets with orange skin and green hair. However, though
the songs they sing here are true to the book, they are less
charismatic than those of the 1971 film and sometimes seem over the
top. Also, I didn't like that they were all clones of each other...I
think that was a poor choice.

Finally, I was appalled with the ending...this ties in with my previous
comments re: Willy Wonka's childhood. It changed the whole idea behind
the story itself, which is supposed to be (from my perspective) that
people can overcome their hardships to have a happy and prosperous
ending, as long as they're honest, selfless, and generous. This movie
changes the whole theme of the story to one that emphasizes the
importance of family over any kind of material wealth or prosperity.
Both are perfectly good and legitimate themes, but my reading of the
book left me with an impression that Roald Dahl was more concerned with
the former theme than the latter. Accordingly then, this movie did not
do the book justice in the most important and fundamental way, whereas
the 1971 film was able to do so despite its shortcomings.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was simply awful. Willy Wonka lacked the warmth, humor and
wit that was shown by Gene Wilder in the original. The use of one
person as the Oompa loompas comes off as cheap production, whether it
was or not. The changes made, even subtle ones such as the order or
events between Charlie finding the money and getting the last ticket
and the introduction of the elevator just seem off. One of the most
memorable moments is left out, which is the fizzy drink that makes
Charlie and Uncle Joe float around.

The oompa loompa sequences are horrible, the main characters fail to
connect with the viewer as they did in the original.. I could go on and
on but will just end by saying....

This movie is proof that new technology, different actors, producers
and directors do not always equal a better experience.

Save your time and your money... buy and watch the original. My 5 year
only daughter even prefers it over the new.
<|_=00=_|>
First of its important to say that I am a Roald Dahl fan, and indeed a
fan of the original 1971 film Willy Wonka and the chocolate factory.
What that film and the work of Roald Dahl have in common is charm,
warmth, eccentricity etc. This Tim Burton film does not share in any of
it. Having sat and forced myself to watch the entire film hoping
something good would happen I was left feeling nothing but empty. I
enjoyed most of Tim Burton's work and was rather excited about this
film when it was announced, the trailers never gave away too much and I
kept on hoping right up until the credits rolled. So whats so bad about
it then? My first massive problem with the film is the reactions from
the children through the film. Were they sedated during filming? Watch
the scene where they tear down the chocolate river in the boiled sweet
boat, does one of them even scream in delight? are they not amazed they
are on a boat made from candy on a river of flowing chocolate? Most of
the time they stand there looking like they would rather be somewhere
else, how are we supposed to believe in the wonder of this amazing
factory if the kids there aren't even impressed (too much blue screen
work perhaps, means the poor actors had nothing to be amazed at) 

my second not quite as massive problem with the film is Burton's muse
Johnny Depp. Perhaps their relationship is getting stale but Depp's
performance as Willy Wonka was nothing but irritating; less eccentric,
more pathetic. The creepy grey skin, luminous teeth, puppy dog eyes and
hushed voice all add up to a character that I was bored of in the first
5 minutes after seeing him. The ridiculous back story of his childhood
was totally superfluous and added nothing to the film, it's like Burton
really wasn't trying 'why does wonka love candy....? hmmmm maybe his
father was a wicked dentist who wouldn't let him eat it... I could get
christopher lee to play him! get on to casting!' Wonka was supposed to
be a man with years and years of experience behind him, a weathered
eccentric not an excitable/sedated puppy 

point number 3 THE MUSIC, perhaps the worst score to a film I have ever
heard, Danny elfman, shame on you. OK so they wanted to bring the songs
up to date but jeez the music is just bad, the incidental music is bad
also, its all bad.

#4 the Oompa Loompa's. this really made me sad, really sad, so in the
revised book they are like miniature cavemen, in the 1971 film they are
crazy psychedelic dwarfs, in this film they are... one man, one dwarf,
Burton employed him in 'Big Fish' he did OK there but he is so wrong
for the part of an oompa loompa and why does he have to play all of
them? another gimmick that I suspect Burton really didn't waste any
time over coming up with, his expressionless face might have worked as
a sad clown but the cheeky Oompa Loompas? I think not there were a few
god points, the authenticity (minus the stupid flashbacks) I loved
seeing the candy boat in all its glory, the fudge mountain , an actual
glass elevator rather than the weird gold thing in the 1971 film but
who really cares about all these things when not one person in the film
seemed to be impressed by it, did the crew record dry run rehearsals by
accident? ( by the way the original elevator of the book didn't have
rockets on the side it used sky hooks and was powered by sugar but kids
would just laugh at that right?) It was nice to see charlie's dad
regardless of the fact he is of no importance to the film. The sets
were OK but lacked any real wow factor.

basically if you took burtons script chucked out all the nonsense hired
a new director kept the sets and gave them a bit more wow and hired a
new sound guy and told everyone to smile and have a laugh it wouldn't
be that bad, but that didn't happen, mores the pity. OK so one day, say
30 years from now I will make it again its the only way I can resolve
my issues with this disaster.

in short if you are a roald dahl fan and like the 1971 film DO NOT
WATCH THIS, honestly I regret ever seeing it
<|_=00=_|>
I was actually excited to see this movie, I wasn't expecting anything,
I was just intrigued to see another Tim Burton film. The pictures in
the film and the factory were spectacular and mesmerizing. Without even
paying attention to the story line it was clear this was a Tim Burton
film, truly fantastic. But Like watching a model trying to ponder
physics, the beauty is only skin deep. Where was the heart in this
movie? The acting, the dialog, the people all fell short of human
behavior. 

Small example: A child spoiled all her life only taunts her father with
the resounding demand: "I want it Daddy." Where's the yelling, the
screams, has no one EVER SEEN a tantrum?? 

Additional Example: The parents seemed hardly upset with their
children's misfortune. As a parent would you not run out and help your
daughter if she were attacked by ANYTHING much less squirrels?!

The Ompa Loompa problem: I loved them actually. Tiny, creepy, and what
a great story on how they were found. They were great until they broke
into a bad Britney spears song and dance. What the #*!$*#& was that?!

Flashback problem: I loved johnny's character, quirky and fun.
Nevertheless, the flashbacks didn't add much at all to anything. And
they were executed in the WORST WAYS i've ever seen. "sorry I was
having a flashback." They are far better ways to have had those worked
honestly.

The T.V. kid: was he really so horrible? I mean yes, he was obnoxious,
but it doesn't take t.v. to do that. In fact, didn't t.v. just make him
smart? Is it so awful that he figured out how to find the bar with the
ticket? T.V. didn't turn his mind to mush, it made him the smartest kid
who was just annoying and stubborn.

The ending: Horrible, horrible, horrible. I don't even want to talk
about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely awful. Sorry, it's the truth.

I wanted it to be good too. The original is brilliant, a timeless piece
of pop culture. But what Tim Burton did to this film... OK, picture
Fred Durst, Avril Lavigne, the Spice Girls, and the New Kids on the
Block covering "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band." Drunk. That is
really how bad this film is.

My biggest problem with the film is that they left out Charlie's sin. I
mean, no fizzy lifting drinks? C'mon!! One of the things that humanized
the original Charlie, the polite and thoughtful one amongst a pastiche
of brats, is that Charlie too broke the rules, and reasonably invoked
Wonka's wrath. Charlie's innate good nature eventually redeems him,
Also, for Darwin's sake, cut out the music. "PAINFUL" is the only word
I can conjure to describe it.

I will admit that I have not read the Dahl novel, so I do not know if
the original included all the drudgerous background on Wonka. However,
the constant flow-killing flashbacks slows the pace of the movie to a
crawl, and normally Depp's acting can carry any role, but this script
and character rendering were just terrible. Perhaps the background
information on Wonka should have been one big chunk in the beginning of
the movie, because spacing it out has no build-up value at all.

Also, worst voice on a Depp character, well, ever.

There really was nothing to redeem this piece-of-crap moneysucker. I
can't believe I actually wasted $12 to see it. Between this, "The
Stepford Wives," and "Godzilla," I have lost all faith in the movie
industry.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly cannot see why anybody would like this rubbish over the
original. Whereas the 1971 version sparkled with innocence, charm and
magic, this monstrosity will leave you feeling violently ill and
internally disturbed by the time the closing credits roll.

Let me begin by saying I don't personally enjoy Tim Burton's style, and
didn't like the dark influence he brought to this film. Depp's Wonka is
perhaps the creepiest character I've ever watched in a movie. Unlike
Gene Wilder's eccentric yet loving Wonka, he openly expresses his
disgust and hatred towards the children. One need only watch the scene
in which a shrunken Mike Teavee is nearly stabbed by a vicious-faced
Oompa-Loompa, or the one in which Veruca Salt is dragged screaming into
the garbage chute while Wonka pretends he cannot find the right key to
let Mr. Salt into save his daughter, to understand Wonka's cruelty. In
the original, Wonka seemed merely disappointed and bored during the
children's accidents, and he always kept his head; he knew no harm
would befall the young troublemakers. Here, we see Wonka laughing,
dancing and cheering as the Oompa Loompas sing about children being
turned into chocolate and eaten.The scenes of the four naughty
children's punishments were incredibly disturbing, and the jokes about
cannibalism just made me cringe at the stupidity of it all. 

Charlie Bucket, who should have been the main character, was a
disappointment. Throughout most of the film he seems rather
expressionless and bored, unlike the genuine and honest boy played by
Peter Ostrum in the original movie. The 1971 Charlie had a dream; he
wanted more than his poverty-stricken life, he strived to help his
family out of tight situations, he wasn't perfect, but he was a
believable character, and that's what made him so lovable; he was just
like us all. This Charlie doesn't seem to care about anything; he seems
perfectly happy with his life and hardly seems to care about getting a
golden ticket. The other children are equally disappointing; Violet
Beauregarde manages to pull off her characters fairly well, but even so
she had little to work with. 

The songs in the original were hopeful and inspiring, such as the
charming 'Candy Man,' and 'I've Got a Golden Ticket,' the heartwarming
'Cheer up Charlie,' and the magnificent 'Pure Imagination.' In this new
version,the only songs we get are a cheesy welcome song in which
childlike puppets explode and melt into ghoulish wraith like figures,
plus the nauseating Oompa-Loompa filth. The emotional 1971 ending with
Wonka, Charlie and Grandpa Goe in the elevator has been replaced with
Wonka refusing the other Buckets to enter the factory, becoming a hobo,
and eventually reuniting with his abusive dentist father (???) 

In a short review with a maximum of 1, 000 words I simply can't do
justice to the badness of this movie, so I'll leave it at this: the old
movie has a positive and uplifting message that will bring tears to
even the coldest eye. This one crushes the viewer down into the dust
while screaming its message into their face. So, unless you enjoy
stupid jokes, children in despair and nauseating songs, don't waste any
money on this soulless, emotionally disturbing piece of filth.
