
A friend of mine was hesitant to see this movie, because she'd heard
that it pushes the agenda that divorce is never a good option for
dealing with marital problems. I don't really know who told her this,
and I hope this same reason isn't keeping others from seeing it. This
isn't at all what I took away from the film. It certainly communicates
the idea that divorce isn't easy, on either the parents or the kids,
but I don't feel that it pronounces judgement on those who turn to it
as an option.

"The Squid and the Whale" is a sad--though at times very funny--look at
what divorce does to one family in 1986 New York. Jeff Daniels plays
the dad, a pompous, arrogant writer whose feelings of commercial
failure (he teaches literature at a university) cause him to act
intellectually superior to everyone he meets. Daniels is almost too
good in this role; he reminded me way too much of people I actually
know who are like this. He's the kind of guy who would be deadly at a
dinner party, because there's no such thing as a casual or flippant
remark in this guy's presence. He analyzes everything to death, and
isn't content until everyone's opinion matches his own.

Laura Linney plays the wayward mom, blamed for the break up of the
marriage by the dad because of a string of affairs she carries on. Her
guilt keeps her from being able to discipline her sons, especially the
oldest, who treats her horribly. Linney's role is smaller but in some
ways much more complex than Daniels'. Her character has to take
responsibility for her infidelity but still make the audience
sympathize with her.

Caught in the middle of this mess are their two boys. The oldest
quickly allies himself with his dad, and walks around regurgitating his
father's opinions on every subject, rarely pausing to form any of his
own. The younger son, more sensitive and tired of being intellectually
brow beaten by his father and older brother, sticks closer to the mom.
No one is totally to blame, yet no one is completely innocent either in
this honest and frank film.

Noah Baumbach has made no secret of the fact that it is based on his
own adolescent life, and it has that confessional feeling that movies
in this genre frequently do. There are awkward moments when this
doesn't totally work. The ending for one is rather ham-fisted, and a
scene between the oldest son and his school therapist seemed awfully
pat to me. But the acting and the sharp writing make up for these
weaknesses, and the movie manages to be poignant without ever becoming
maudlin or overly sentimental.

See it for the performances of Linney and especially Daniels, who has
been proving his versatility as an actor over the last few years.

Grade: A-
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Writer/Director (and Wes Anderson
collaborator) Noah Baumbach presents a semi-autobiographical therapy
session where he unleashes the anguish and turmoil that has carried
over from his childhood. The result is an amazing insight into what
many people go through in a desperate attempt to try and make their
family work.

The casting of Jeff Daniels forces us to view him as the grown up Flap
from "Terms of Endearment". He has become a bitter, unfocused, pompous
ass of a person, father, husband and professor. The inability to
recapture the magic of his early writing success has caused him to look
down on all other writers ... whether they be Fitzgerald or his own
wife. This is Daniels' best work ever on screen and is at once, painful
and a joy to behold.

Laura Linney plays his wife as a woman who loves her kids unequivocally
and has a zest for life that her downbeat husband no longer shares. Her
new found success as a writer sets her off on a trail of confidence and
joy, all the while understanding that her family still needs her very
much.

The kids really take the film to the next level. Jessie Eisenberg
(brilliant in "Roger Dodger") and Owen Kline (son of Kevin Kline and
Phoebe Cates) are both scene stealers as they struggle in their own
distinct ways with their separated parents and their continuance
through adolescence. Watching Eisenberg's worship his dad and
subsequently realize the truth is just amazing stuff. Kline's outbursts
on the tennis court and at the ping pong table are nothing compared to
his discovery of alcohol and self-pleasure. The angst and pain these
two experience is felt by millions of kids in divorce situations.

Other outstanding performances include William Baldwin (the one from
"Backdraft"), Holly Feifer (as Eisenberg's first girlfriend) and Anna
Paquin (underused, but still very effective). Baldwin provides some
comic relief with his incessant "my brother" narrative and Feifer is
extraordinary in capturing teen adoration as she lusts after Eisenberg.
Thanks to her distinct similarity in looks to Linney, I laughed outloud
when Daniels tells Eisenberg "she's not my type".

Listening to Daniels try to manipulate everyone he communicates with
causes immense dislike among viewers, but we can't help but feel some
empathy for him as he seems to believe he is doing all he can do put
his family back together. His fatherly advice is not to be missed (or
followed!). Watching him look for the perfect parking place is really
his search for his place in a world that has deserted him.

Baumbach has created a terrific film and probably exorcised some
personal demons along the way. Definitely not a film for the whole
family, but it offers much insight and many messages. Also the use of
the soundtrack is downright brilliant including key music from Pink
Floyd and Loudon Wainright.
<|_=00=_|>
Noah Baumbach takes a loving (oh?) stab at his parents' divorce,
brought on by the hilariously immature antics of his father, and my
writing professor, the ever pompous Jonathan Baumbach (Jeff Daniels).

Brooklyn College was a hotbed of activism and liberal arts when I first
encountered Jonathan Baumbach (rechristened "Bernard" in the film, a
sly wink at Jonathan's mentor and hero, Bernard Malamud). The arrogance
and complete lack of self awareness is perfectly captured by Daniels in
his over-the-top performance which, amazingly, underplays the actual
father.

To call the picture patricidal is to completely miss the point;
Baumbach pere is so self centered, he likely sees the film as an
homage. Baumbach Sr. is a great writer; he receives good reviews in the
literary journals and his books sell in the hundreds. Baumbach Jr., on
the other hand, is a great filmmaker, and his movies (The Life Aquatic)
are seen by millions. I'm sure the father is disappointed that the son
isn't pursuing tenure at a small Ohio college.

I saw this film in a cozy college theater at the Toronto Film Festival.
I half expected to run into Jonathan Baumbach, in his leather patched
tweed jacket, preening for the audience and eying the coeds.

Funny and poignant. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll want to choke the
bastard.
<|_=00=_|>
More acutely than I've experienced in a long time, this film captures
the process of personality inheritance within families. The
interaction/influence between Bernard and Walt is almost painful to
watch at times, but it's completely rich. Beyond just that father/son
dynamic, the story is so poignant without ever getting sappy - a true
accomplishment for a family drama involving divorce. Nothing hits you
over the head. Nothing seems too forced. While there's plenty of
confusion, discomfort, and alienation, a sense of love shines through,
and I couldn't help but get attached to all of the characters. I
recommend this film unconditionally.
<|_=00=_|>
Almost a perfect movie. Everyone needs to see this one.

Jeff Daniels and Laura Linney are both extraordinary. Factor in the
performances of Jesse Eisenberg and Owen Kline and this may be the most
well-acted movie I've seen in a couple of years.

I've never enjoyed watching Daniels so much. Kline hits a home-run in
his first major role. Eisenberg's performance is Oscar-worthy. (Yes,
Daniels is great, but Eisenberg earns a Best Supporting Actor
nomination in this one!)

What I enjoyed most of all is how some very, VERY delicate humor is
brilliantly woven throughout this incredibly sad movie.

Cheers to Noah Baumbach for putting his life on paper and letting these
terrific actors tell the tale.

That's it. Thanks for reading.
<|_=00=_|>
It's interesting to read all of the comments and how each reviewer has
found something unique that calls to them. Some reviewers have focused
on the boys or the father or the mother. Different scenes have been
noted, almost none by more than one reviewer. What this tells me is
that the writer/director has crafted a story in which all of the scenes
contribute to the whole. This was my experience watching the movie. It
was believable, well shot, great backgrounds, all in all a treat for
anyone who loves movies and can handle some pretty raw
dialog/situations.....and nothing gets blown up.

I would recommend this only for adults or a very mature teenager. The
language and situations are tough but as I said, very believable. I
identified with much of what the teens in this movie are going through
and my sympathies definitely sided with them against their
self-involved and self-indulgent parents. This is the best role I've
ever seen Jeff Daniels in and having known men in my life like his
character I think he was spot-on with his portrayal. There were no weak
characterizations with any of the actors, for that matter.
<|_=00=_|>
Noah Baumbach, the immensely talented writer, and director of "The
Squid and the Whale" clearly demonstrates he is one of the brightest
young directors working in America today. Having admired his previous
films, we were looking forward to this new work in which he presents a
part of his life, baring his soul, something some other movie makers
would shy away from. This experience must have been a painful reminder
for Mr. Baumbah of his past, or maybe it served as a catharsis.

If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading here.

The Berkman household in Park Slope, Brooklyn, appears to be normal
when we are introduced to the family. These are the kinds of parents
that encourage their two children participate in discussions in which
books are at the center of the conversation. What's more, Walt, the
eldest boy, seems to know a lot about what is discussed. Bernard, the
father, is an author that hasn't got a lot of recognition and now
teaches college to support the family. Joan, the mother, also a writer,
is starting to get her work published. The two sons, Walt and Frank are
clever beyond their years.

Evidently, not all seems to be happy in the house. First, one notices
Bernard making the couch in the morning, in which he has slept in order
to "ease his back problems". Joan, is a supporting mother, but somehow,
she appears to be distant. Both parents sit with the kids one night to
tell them about their impending separation. Of course, this takes
Frank, and especially Frank aback by the announcement. The semblance of
a tightly knit family begins to unravel in front of the children's
eyes.

For Walt, the situation is not as crucial as it is for Frank. Being
older and being a city kid, Walt has seen this happening among his age
group. For Frank, however, his parents break up is the end of the
world, as he knew it. Both boys are resilient in accepting the
situation. It's clear Bernard and Joan love their sons, but the idea of
not having both parents around at the same time is devastating.

"The Squid and the Whale" is a film that lays bare the emotions the two
boys are experiencing. Basically, it's their film as it shows how they
have to adjust to the new circumstances. They both adore their parents,
but the resentment is clear as they blame Bernard and Joan for daring
to fall out of love and in a way, abandon them to a new reality the
older Berkmans didn't prepared them for.

The quality of the acting Mr. Baumbach gets from this ensemble cast is
absolutely amazing. We believe we are, in a way, intruding in this
family's problems. We are voyeurs to the tragedy their separation
presents for the boys. Jeff Daniels and Laura Linney are perfect as the
elder Berkmans. Mr. Daniels, especially, gives an inspired performance
for his take of the stingy Bernard. Ms. Linney, one of our best
actresses, is marvelous as Joan.

What the director has done with the young actors, Jesse Eisenberg and
Owen Kline is something incredible. We can't think of any other
director that could have accomplished what Noah Baumbach has in guiding
them to make the great contribution both these teen agers gave to the
film. Both actors are up to the task and there are never a false move
from anyone of them.

The supporting cast is interesting. William Baldwin plays the tennis
pro Ivan. Anna Paquin is good as Lili, Bernard's student that is wiser
than her young years indicate. Halley Feiffer is perfectly sweet as
Sophie who likes Walt.

The film has been photographed in a faded technique by Robert Yeoman
that gives the film a nostalgic look. The musical score is fine,
reflecting the era in which the movie takes place.

The movie is a triumph for Noah Baumbah who clearly shows he is an
unique voice for these times.
<|_=00=_|>
Noah Baumbach's semi-autobiographical tale of divorce in the mid-1980's
in Brooklyn is funny and touching and ranks right up there with the
best work of Woody Allen or Sophia Coppola as superb bourgeois cinema
where we are treated to the neurotic underbelly of over-educated,
over-indulged, upwardly mobile, urban middle class families. This a
wonderful film imbued with a fantastic sense of place and time and
small details in which the viewer can find great delight (like the
hilarious scene where Jeff Daniels takes his teenage son and the kid's
new girlfriend to see David Lynch's "Blue Velvet" instead of the first
choice "Short Circuit" or the closing shot of the actual squid fighting
a whale at the NYC Musueum of Natural History).

Jeff Daniels is slyly funny as the cheapskate, snobbish father who was
once the toast of the literary world and is now just getting by on
teaching. Laura Linney is again perfection (when is she not, really) as
the mother just starting her own brilliant literary career and who is a
bit too open about her sexuality with her children. While the parents
bicker over custody (even the cat gets to skate between two homes), the
older son acts out by plagiarizing Pink Floyd in a talent show and
nervous encounters with girls (one of whom is his father's live-in
student/lover played by the always alluring Anna Paquin), and the
younger son (a very good Owen Kline-real life son of Kevin Kline and
Pheobe Cates) turns to drinking alone and public masturbation. 

It's all as awkward, real, and devastatingly funny as it sounds. A
great script and even better acting highlight this tale of a family on
the skids. Every member of the family is brilliantly brought to life
and even though they are acting in their own flawed, selfish,
self-annihilating and myopic ways, they still endear themselves to the
audience like they are our own family.

Bottom line: Only a Philistine would turn down the chance to enjoy "The
Squid and the Whale."
<|_=00=_|>
What about the freaking cat?? It's the only character in the whole damn
movie I cared about. Oh, and Sophie--I hope she ran far and fast.

It's bizarre that so many people and journalists raved about this. It's
emotionally unsophisticated and full of tired clichés about pompous
academics and Park Slope liberals. The director's completely unresolved
issues are painfully displayed. Dude. Therapy. Get some. 

The father is so one-dimensional that he's not interesting to watch.
But the mother--who is clearly the sympathetic parent in the director's
eyes--is also horrible. Because her husband is so awful she's allowed
to cheat on him for years? And did no one else think that SHE was
equally responsible for leaving Frank alone for the weekend? He's a
child--what if her husband had had his heart attack then? And where was
she going that she couldn't wait 30 minutes for her ex to show up?
Also, saving up the "you wanted joint custody because you're cheap"
revelation timing for maximum emotional crippling? Nice. All in all, a
family full of miserable people who all deserved one another.

Do not be deceived by the stated running time: One and a half hours of
torture can seem like five.
<|_=00=_|>
THE SQUID AND THE WHALE (2005) **** Jeff Daniels, Laura Linney, Jessie
Eisenberg, Owen Kline, Anna Paquin, William Baldwin. 

Literary autobiography with heartfelt humor.

Filmmaker Noah Baumbach is back in fine form since his debut with the
excellent "Kicking and Screaming" (a personal fave of mine; a "Diner"
for the '90s) in this semi-autobiographical account of his family's
dealing with his parent's divorce with bittersweet frankness and a
heaping of witty humor.

The family Berkman of Park Slope, Brooklyn circa the early 1980s,
consists of author/teacher Bernard (Daniels in a career high
performance that deserves an Oscar nod), literary pursuant mother Joan
(Linney sublimely good) and sons Walt and Frank (Eisenberg and Kline,
the latter the progeny of Kevin Kline and Phoebe Cates making a
Culkinian debut with surprising chops) aka Chicken and Pickle (their
mom's nicknames). The quartet is harmonious in literary pursuits and
drastic life changes when the parents agree on separating sending the
boys (and ultimately themselves) into an emotional tailspin.

Bernard, a very sardonic critical yet loving man, is taking it very
internally despite his sarcastic remarks about everything to his sons
as a sounding board in his attempt to keep his boys together by a joint
custody agreement with Joan by taking a fixer-upper brownstone across
the park while he deals with the likelihood that his new book will
never be published. 

Joan's affairs are discovered shockingly by the boys - Walt the more
avuncularly bitter lashing out and blaming her for not giving the
marriage a chance reasoning that dad's lack of success has made her
seek another shot a life of empty sex yet promise in her undiscovered
writing talents (much to the resentment of Bernard); meanwhile budding
tennis pro wannabe Frank, the youngest, begins to experiment with
alcohol and masturbation.

Added to the mix is Lili (Paquin), a female writing student of
Bernard's, who has a hidden agenda when Bernard invites her to share
his new home as a roommate while the boys visit every other day with
mixed results. Walt is attempting to begin a sexual awakening as well
with his first girlfriend but is getting all the wrong comic advice
from Bernard who is clueless with the opposite sex as he is also trying
to have sex with Lili while burning over Joan who has hooked up with
Frank's tennis instructor Ivan (a doofy Baldwin whose every other
utterance is "Brother").

Achingly funny, sharply witty and skewering with some pricelessly
amusing moments including the running gag of Bernard driving his kids
around the neighborhood ("my space is missing!" an apt metaphor for his
listless situation) and subtle touches (Bernard reading Saul Bellow's
THE VICTIM and the new home decorated with posters of films like PSYCHO
and THE MOTHER AND THE WHORE and using the instrumental theme of
Tangerine Dream's score to "Risky Business" during Frank's sexual
awakenings!) ) bring a smile if not a burst of laughter in the unease
of a family's reluctant transition that will scar them forever.

Baumbach is clearly making a heartfelt valentine to his own upbringing
when his parents eventually divorced during his trying teens and the
affects that have rubbed off are bittersweet and universally humorous.
He has a keen touch with his actors  especially Daniels, the
centerpiece character, who is brilliantly funny, touching and
head-shaking misanthropic at the absurdity of his situation (at one
point he says glibly with a touch of melancholy, "that's my home which
I used to live inas you may know", to his son during one of their
jaunts back and forth) that has echoes of his first fine role as Flap,
the philandering English professor husband of the doomed Debra Winger
in "Terms of Endearment", suggesting a bookend to what Flap may have
become ultimately (and I'm damned if I'm not right at one point Walt is
looking at his father's novel's backflap and the photo suggests a still
from that film!). Bernard genuinely cares for his family but does
things in such an ass-backward (and frugal) way that it is borderline
heartbreaking especially his confounded loss of his status (both
professionally and familially) that at one point I welled up with tears
as he caressed a shelve of books while dropping Frank off with his mom.
Daniels has always been one of my all-time faves and a severely
underrated (and underestimated actor) it's be criminal if he didn't get
an Academy Award nomination.

There are some very funny moments throughout with the brothers
particularly Frank's stream of profanities in frustration at the tennis
lessons (no doubt from his competitive father in several sequences) and
Walt's stone-cold declaration that the musical piece he will be
performing, Pink Floyd's "Hey You", was written by him as an original
work! 

Baumbach has crafted some fine work over the years (the aforementioned
masterpiece of "Kicking & Screaming" about recent college grad buds
deliberately not accepting their new status in the 'real world' by
refusing to adapt and his recent collaboration with executive producer
and fellow auteur Wes Anderson on last year's equally sublimely
funny/sad "The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou") and his latest, a blend
of Salinger and Updike suggests a novella come to life and one of the
year's finest comedic dramas.
