
I saw this film last night. I had been traveling, and did not see any
advertising cause I was not watching TV. Point? I went into the film
without any real expectations. I only knew the cast and saw a short
blurb on the premise.

Question??  Is Kate Beckinsale's agent and representatives TRYING to
Whiteout her career? Her agent should be shot for getting her involved
in the films she has been associated with lately.

Whiteout has it all  Starts with a long unnecessarily drawn out shower
scene with a pre-shower shot focused on KB bending over, in her
underwear, right into the camera. Not that I mind, but a total B-movie
skin-a-max move. It is followed up with a pointless story that lacked
any originality (except I guess the location) that included routine
plot points and every EXPECTED twist!! We even get an uninspired,
contrived history for KB's character. Add some REAL BAD dialogue at
times (you know the kind  the writers are not sure the audience will
get the absolute obvious, so they have a character actually say the
obvious out loud. They have to spell it out for all the morons they
must be pandering) and you got a B-Movie with what I assume is still an
A-list star??? The directing does not help, nor does the editing (whom
I'll give a pass since the director handed the editor B-movie scenes).
In all the film is uninspired, routine and mostly flawed with an
inconsistent feel on every level.

At some points I would have given this film a 3 (mostly when that awful
dialogue would proceed), a moment here and there a 5. But luckily, the
best performance came from Tom Skerritt, (who managed to maintain a
level of quality the rest involved could not) and his presence near the
end saved a lower rating (yes, its true, parts of this film deserve
lower than the overall 4).

No need to spend you hard earned money on this at the box office mess.
Rent it on DVD if your REALLY bored or have an unlimited plan.or wait
till skin-a-max shows it!! It may be worth the $1 Red Box rental.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually felt this movie was fairly decent. Looking at a lot of the
reviews, people seem to feel so outraged at how horrible this movie
apparently was, but I don't know what they were expecting. If you're
that angry about the supposed "twist" foreshadowed in the trailer, then
you should have been smart enough to know that the chances of this
movie coming through with some amazing and original twist were very
slim.

Anyway, as for the film itself, there were definitely many flaws. That
stupid shower scene in the first 10 minutes of the movie was so
tactless I was almost ready to leave. The acting was mediocre at best.
I think Gabriel Macht is an extremely good looking guy, but based on
this film he is a horrendous actor. Kate Beckinsale was okay as the
lead... She had her moments. The dialogue was so cheesy though. And the
film was just also very predictable and tedious. The flashback scenes
in particular got pretty annoying as pretty much the same exact scene
was repeated at least 3 or 4 times throughout the movie.

But perhaps the best aspect of the film is the scenery. The outside
shots were beautiful. The whole idea of being on Antarctica was
fascinating and is perhaps the main reason why I was able to put up
with many of its flaws. I wish they developed that aspect of the story
more. I also felt some of the blood and gore were also well done. It
was more tasteful than a slasher movie but still just as gut-wrenching.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, this isn't a Great movie. It's not even a great whodunit. But in
a world where old Charlie Chan pot-boilers have a cult following, and
boneheaded Spielberg spectaculars are considered works of genius, I'd
say that Whiteout definitely has a place.

What did I like about Whiteout? I loved the setting. ANY movie set in
the confines of an Antarctic research station is okay with me. (There
aren't nearly enough of them!) I loved the characters. Kate Beckinsale
isn't in the front ranks of thespians, but she's a solid leading lady,
and brings a good mix of likability, vulnerability and toughness to
this part. The supporting characters are just fine as well. I loved the
idea of setting an action-mystery in this odd locale, and I greatly
enjoyed the way the mystery unraveled - predictable though it may have
been. And I loved the various ways that the frozen environment is
brought in as an element in the story.

What did I hate? Not a thing. True, the cold is not treated
realistically. Too many people walking around bareheaded and such. Yes,
it's a dopey Hollywood convention. But in a little action flick like
this one, I wasn't bothered - at all. Did I hate the acting? No. It was
just right for this kind of film. Did I have problems with the writing?
Okay... there were a few bits of logic that could have been tighter.
But, again, no worse than in many movies that get a 10/10 from every
blockhead on Earth. (I won't itemize... this review is going to get
enough down-checks as it is.)

Bottom line, Whiteout is a pile of fun. It's a 'genre' film, with few
if any artistic pretensions. But it delivers the goods where it counts.
I've watched it several times on DVD, and expect to enjoy it quite a
few more. If you don't get it, go watch some Merchant-Ivory drawing
room masterpiece, and we'll all be happy.
<|_=00=_|>
The first few minutes of watching Kate Beckinsale stripping
was....well, expected and pleasant. But it is becoming routine for her
in her movies.

That entire sequence was made to keep us guys interested for the rest
of this rather predictable movie. It served no other purpose at all.
(Yeah, she's still got an incredible body) This movie has a very simple
and uncomplicated plot. Even the "twist" is totally predictable. I knew
who the villain was in the first 15-20 minutes of the film.

The movie is paced quite evenly without much up and down except for a
rather unusual "action" sequence somewhere in the middle of the film,
involving ice-pick, a blizzard (white-out), and a lot of guiding ropes.
The action could have been better if not for some blurry fast action
moments. I had no idea what happened for a few seconds. they kicked, he
fell, she fell....

No surprise at all. Wait for the DVD. This is a good movie to watch on
a small screen.
<|_=00=_|>
Well last night I went and saw this movie. I didn't know a lot about
it, and i have found that that is the best way to see a movie, because
if you watch all the previews and get too hipped up about it, then you
are most likely going to set your self up for disaster. My sister went
with me and she was on the edge of her seat the whole time, and she
isn't the type to get over excited about things.

I've read where people left a lot of negative comments, but I don't
understand what was so bad. First, the acting was not less than par and
the movie portrayed a halfway accurate setting of what Antarctica is
like. Sure they did lack a little bit of what would really happen with
the lack of face protection, Kate's face would not have survived as
well as it did when she went out without face protection in -60f temps.

People that rated this movie as poorly as they did because of their
disbelief in what its like to be in conditions like this, apparently
have never been in conditions lie this. I've never been in -60 temps
with 100 mph winds, but I've been in -50 temps with 40 mph winds, and
its surviveable.
<|_=00=_|>
While digesting my Thanksgiving meal, I wanted to watch a good movie in
front of the fire on a cold winter night. Whiteout seemed appealing
because of the synopsis and the setting. I love the desolate setting of
an science facility in the cold lifeless continent of Antartica. There
is always something creepy and thrilling about being so far from
civilization and life sustaining climate; the movie had a similar
creepiness to some other thrillers that take place in deep space. The
plot and setting were original, and keep you guessing throughout the
movie. The suspense and thrills were more likened to a horror movie or
a slasher film, but I say that in a good way. My 17 year old daughter
and wife had to turn their eyes away for many scenes in fear and
anticipation.

I like to judge movies by what their intent is. I try and compare Old
School to Gone with the Wind for example... 2 completely different
audiences and intents, but both great movies that deliver what they try
to deliver. In my opinion, Whiteout delivered what it tried to deliver,
a scary, interesting, beautiful, thrilling escape. Exactly what I
wanted to see on a cold Friday night in front of the fire!
<|_=00=_|>
Whiteout isn't as bad as people are claiming it is, in fact I had an OK
time with it, when all was said and done. There is a dull section in
the middle that's hard to get through, but the fairly exciting finale
makes up for that in my opinion. I give big props to the film cast for
having to go through such a rigorous weather treatment, but it made for
a fairly effective movie. The negative thing about Whiteout though is,
I didn't think it took advantage of its immense potential. It's
definitely watchable and fairly entertaining, but it could have been a
film to remember with that type of setting and the plot, and
unfortunately I guessed the twist at the end halfway through the movie.
Kate Beckinsale makes for a very good lead, while being believable at
the same time, and that's very important for a film like this. Whiteout
has it's fair share of spooky moments, the atmosphere is great, and in
the end I was entertained for the most part, but it could have been so
much more.

Performances. Kate Beckinsale is gorgeous to look at, but also a pretty
good actress too. She's likable and her Feistyness, but also
vulnerability worked well for her. Gabriel Macht does well as Pryce, he
was pretty charismatic. Tom Skerritt is OK as the Doctor, I suppose he
had a presence. Columbus Short is likable as Delfy. Alex O'Loughlin is
quite intense in his role.

Bottom line. It's worth a watch on Telly or DVD that's for sure, it
passes the time well.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Just came from the Premiere of Whiteout in Westwood.

This movie has a really stunning poster. And that is the best I can say
for the movie.

The first 10 minutes of the film, involving the Russian transport
plane, is the most exciting part of the movie. You can leave after that
part.

Everything in this movie has been done before. The cop who has had a
crisis on the job .. the flashbacks .. the reservation about your job
.. etc.

The most beautiful part of the movie was the scenery. However in most
scenes, there were so much snow blowing around (Whiteout) you couldn't
see all of the action.

Reese Witherspoon was scheduled to play the lead. Not that Kate
Beckinsale wasn't good in the movie, but the script catered on the gore
instead of on the quality of the plot.
<|_=00=_|>
"Whiteout" was dead on arrival. Word has it that this movie has been
sitting on a studio shelf for some time now. This usually isn't a good
sign and while some films that have delayed releases turn out to be
good, Whiteout is not.

The problem with Whiteout is not the acting or the direction, but with
the awful script and tired storyline. There is not one thing here that
is new or original. A "killer-on-the-loose" story needs twists,
revelations, and the one's given in Whiteout are solely lacking
creativity. Many will guess who is pulling the strings before the first
act is up. Second, the story is boring and uneventful. Save a few
chases scored to pounding music, not much happens. The film tries to
establish a sense of urgency with an oncoming intense snow storm. This
element does little to add to the story aside from a need to get off
the continent.

Whiteout is truly a celebration of mediocrity that fails on all
accounts. At the time this was supposedly filmed, Beckinsale was
probably still trying to cement herself as a star in Hollywood. It
makes sense that she took the role. However, and for her benefit, she
has done far better since. That makes this film seem even more out of
place.

Don't waste your time or money. Don't waste a DVD rental. Whiteout just
isn't worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Neither great nor horrible, it's entertaining, smart, and sometimes has
some surprises that are worth seeing, but expect action thriller
melodrama as opposed to science fiction intrigue.

The main problem is that it's often too formulaic and cliché, sometimes
nearly nonsensical. It feels in many ways like any other FBI/CIA
international mystery thriller involving lots of brutally murdered
people, with the exception of the setting.

Nice FX and a sort of gore horror film element (that axe murderer story
lovers will greatly appreciate) add something beyond the FBI melodrama
to create some excitement, thrills, and disturbing moments.
