
The most satisfying element about "Dan in Real Life" is that the
relationship between Dan (Steve Carell) and Marie (Juliette Binoche)
makes sense and is beautifully realistic. The casting of Oscar-winner
Juliette Binoche as Dan's love interest was a superb decision; she is
exceptionally talented, intelligent, naturally attractive and, thank
goodness, appropriately aged for the part! Had this movie been made
with Jessica Alba or Scarlett Johansson, it would have been a disaster.

Another wonderful aspect about "Dan in Real Life" is that it is a
perfect film for adults who are interested in a mature comedy that
leaves out the three pillars of the "frat pack" formula: dumb chicks,
chauvinistic guys, and sleazy jokes. "Dan in Real Life" is witty and
has fun, intelligent laughs throughout. Whereas other comedies
incorporate or are almost entirely based on jokes that shock the
audience into laughing, the jokes from "Dan in Real Life" are more
natural and clever, and involve some thinking on the part of the
audience.

My only problem with "Dan in Real Life" is that the rebellious, middle
daughter is played too outrageously by actress Brittany Robertson. It's
difficult to say if this was a personal choice on her part or a choice
by the director. Either way, her character is unrealistic and annoying.
But, this is only a minor flaw in the film, and does not take away from
the story as a whole.

All in all, "Dan in Real Life" is a great film, a fantastic escape from
the redundancy of offensive and dumbed-down comedies. The quality of
the writing, directing, acting, and (especially) cinematography is
excellent. It is simply a beautiful, light-hearted comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I got to see this film at a preview and was dazzled by it. It's not the
typical romantic comedy. I can't remember laughing so hard at a film
and yet being moved by it. The laughs aren't gags here--they're
observations, laughs of recognition, little shocks of "Oh, my God, I
thought I was the only one who felt that way!" I won't give away the
plot, which is more than just "Guy falls in love with his brother's
girlfriend." The whole family plays a part in the relationship here.
Probably the best blend of laughter and warmth since "While You Were
Sleeping." 

Steve Carell goes much deeper than he's gone before, and for the first
time I really liked him. The cast is amazing, a list of veteran theater
actors whom I've loved in other roles, but they blend to make a
convincing family. Dianne Wiest is lovely as the mother, Juliette
Binoche is luminous and hilarious (who knew she was funny?), and even
the reviled Dane Cook gives a warm, quiet, touching performance. The
Sondre Lerche soundtrack is a wonderful addition, and I'll buy the CD
the second it's available.

Don't miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see this at a pre-screening last night (Oct. 20)
and I was incredibly surprised by the wonderful plot and genuinely
heart felt acting.

While the plot is not particularly complicated or exceptionally new,
the story unfolds in a way that feels fresh, unique, and distinctly
"indy" in style. It isn't something that can easily be compared to
films of the past, it's a unique take on a sort of classic middle-aged
depressed love story.

I was particularly struck by the casting of the film. Down to every
last extra in the family, it was a beautiful and talented cast. The
three daughters did a wonderful job, the talent was evenly dispersed
between them and none of them "out-shone" the other two.

It was truly a delightful film, appropriate for all ages and laugh out
loud funny while also being truly touching and heart warming. It was a
wonderful break from the sex jokes and nudity of recent films.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Carell plays Dan Burns, newspaper agony uncle and dedicated
single father to three girls. At a large family homecoming Dan meets
his perfect woman, only to find out that she is in a relationship with
his brother.

What's a man to do?

I rather liked "Dan In Real Life", but I would imagine the success or
otherwise of this flick is going to be down to whether you are willing
to accept Steve Carell playing a part relatively straight and
restrained, rather than going through the broad comedy moves that have
made him so successful. If you cannot accept it, fear not, "Get Smart"
will be along later in the year, but for the record I thought he was
very good.

"Dan In Real Life" starts off like your typical, incidentally amusing,
family drama, but it gets funnier and funnier as it goes along and
Carell's frustration with his situation grows. It's not massively
original (but if you only saw movies with original ideas, cinematic
pickings would be very scarce indeed, wouldn't they?), but "Dan In Real
Life" is entertaining, and a good cast (who wouldn't fall in love at
first sight with the luminous Juliette Binoche?) make the most of an
insightful enough script that contains many a ponder on the meaning and
passion of love.

I hope that Steve Carell pushes himself and does something as
interesting again.
<|_=00=_|>
Marie: You are smooth. Dan: No, I'm not smooth. I'm Dan.

If you're anything like me, smooth and single do not go together. You
see someone you like, rare enough as that can be, and you want to say
something but you don't. Or maybe you do say something but it ends up
being perhaps the least intelligent thing you've ever said in your
life. More often then not though, you stare from afar and admire
without having to deal with taking that which most agree is the only
way to get anywhere in life  a risk. You can't blame a guy for being a
little frightened though. Maybe he's been burned hard before or maybe
he's trying to focus all his energy on his career. There are reasons,
some valid, some not, and all of them can be interpreted as excuses
rather than reason. You tell yourself you don't need it or it isn't the
right time for you but you still wish it were happening. Any way you
break it down, it's not easy. Sound familiar? If you thought yes even
just a little, then DAN IN REAL LIFE, the new comedy from director
Peter Hedges, is a must-see. It will reach inside of you and somehow
manage to both break and warm your heart all at once.

The Dan from the title is Dan Burns (Steve Carell), an advice columnist
who is admired for his insight into living a balanced, fulfilling and
morally uplifting life. Four years or so before the film opens on Dan
waking up to his day, he lost his wife and love of his life. After that
tragedy, Dan was left to raise their three daughters alone. Between
that and focusing on his career, finding love again was not one of
Dan's priorities. And so he became more functional than feeling.
Removed from the power of intimacy, Dan no longer knows what it means
to be that close to someone and has resigned himself to never knowing
that again. That is, until he meets Marie (Juliette Binoche) in a book
and tackle shop in Connecticut on a quiet morning. They're interaction
is casual, comfortable and it catches both of them off guard. There is
only one problem really. She is already seeing someone. Unfortunately
for all involved, that someone is Dan's brother, Mitch (Dane Cook). His
entire family has come up to their parents' country home for their
yearly visit and Dan must now spend the weekend pining and yearning for
the fleeting feeling he had with Marie that morning. It only lasted an
hour or so but it only took that long to awaken Dan's heart from its
coma.

With so many family members to deal with (Jack Mahoney and Dianne Wiest
are at the helm), DAN IN REAL LIFE does drift away from its grander
purpose from time to time. While the cyclone of kids and parents and
aunts and uncles makes for trying times for Dan, Hedges also uses it
unnecessarily as a means to distract, with the presumption that it
would ultimately make for a more complete film. Luckily, Hedges has got
Carell to carry the heavy burden. It is a pleasure to watch Steve
Carell come into his own more and more with every picture he makes
(despite the occasional EVAN ALMIGHTY-sized misstep). He is
charismatic, charming and obviously a sharp humorist. As Dan, he is
also self-deprecating, awkward and scared. Carell is the rare comedian
who pushes himself to find character in his roles rather than rely
solely on his comedic instincts and established persona. Perhaps more
importantly, he is entirely relatable as Dan. Whether he's flopping
down on the cot in the laundry room where he is subjected to sleep as
the only single adult at this reunion or fidgeting around the kitchen,
unable to stan d still in his anxiety, Dan is every guy who has even
been unsure of himself and felt alone in the crowd. Carell gives Dan so
much heart that he becomes the heart of the film itself at the same
time.

I wondered after seeing the film if I enjoyed the it as much as I did,
despite its slight shortcomings (Juliette Binoche  I know you might
like to lighten up every now and then but I don't recommend it unless
there is chocolate involved), because of where I am in my life. Would
someone who has found that someone else derive as much meaning and
comfort from this film? I can't say. What I can say, as someone who
knows what it means to be lonely, DAN IN REAL LIFE knows what it means
to be surprised by life and love and how these moments and people need
to be appreciated and cherished. It also knows that anyone who might be
feeling lonely on any given day or for months at a time needs to be
reminded that surprises still happen.
<|_=00=_|>
-might contain spoilers... but believe me, this movie spoils itself
from start to finish.

I walked into this movie with high expectations. It was my own fault. I
had put too much stock in Steve Carell's record to date. 40 year old
virgin... Little Miss Sunshine... The Office. And I also made the
mistake of coming to IMDb and seeing a 7.5 user rating before going to
the movie. It's always been a very good predictor in the past, but
something is definitely off lately. The last time I felt this
embarrassed and in this much pain in a movie theater was watching "Blue
Steel" in 1990.

This flick fumbled from start to finish. The script was flunky
material. Awful writing all around. "Murderer of love"? "Love is an
ability"? Whoever wrote this crap suffered from the same affliction
that struck American Beauty's writer(s)... trying waaaaayyyyyy too
hard. The entire flick was peppered with Three's Company'ish moments
like the awful and contrived shower scene. Or the pointless/confusing
aerobics scene. Or the awful laundry room scene. Right when you think
something serious and/or real is about to happen, they toss in one of
these terrible moments. And it happens over and over and over again.

And what's with Carell's character? The guy meets some lame broad at a
book store and is suddenly head over heels in love? Let's face it.
Their conversation sucked. They both should have said their goodbye's
after a few minutes. Pay close attention to the initial conversation
when you have the misfortune of watching this movie.... Carell's
character is trying to say something which is absolutely random and
un-funny (I think the exact line was "this one time when I was a
kid"... that's it. seriously), but both are laughing so hard that
coffee is about to spout out of their noses. The actors themselves
looked like they were in pain, wondering why they're being directed to
do what they're doing.

Back to the IMDb thing... you guys need to figure out a way to keep a
movie's promotional team off this site. I know it's impossible, but
it's painfully obvious the first 20 or so ratings/reviews were either
posted by 12 year olds, or by flunky's hired by the studio. Check out
The Family Stone's rating... if that's a mid 5, then this absolutely
has got to be a 2... and that's pushing it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a Steve Carell fan however I like this movie about Dan, an
advice columnist, who goes to his parents house for a stay with his
kids and ends up falling in love with his brother's girlfriend. Its a
story thats been told before, but not like this. There are simply too
many little bits that make the film better than it should be. The cast
is wonderful, and even if Carell is not my cup of tea, he is quite good
as the widower who's suppose to know everything but finds that knowing
is different than feeling and that sometimes life surprises you. At
times witty and wise in the way that an annoying Hallmark card can be,
the film still some how manages to grow on you and be something more
than a run of the mill film. Worth a look see
<|_=00=_|>
I was drawn to DAN IN REAL LIFE from the excellent reviews and the
thirst for a Dramedy that was well written-thank you Peter Hedges-and
because when Steve Carell stars in the film, you know an audience is
going to find like in LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE, a performance that is very
entertaining and rewarding. DAN IN REAL LIFE delivered that promise.

The film is so real to many families world wide that have lost a member
and yet have gone on with their lives in search of something that will
give them the magic back before their loss. With Steve Carell and the
wondrous Juliette Binoche, their relationship was so beautifully done
and written that their scenes were so real to their characters and to
their journeys. The cast, sets and story made DAN IN REAL LIFE one to
remember as we head into the holidays ahead.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoiler: Bunch of passive-aggressive people having family reunion. The
script has them saying and doing things people would never do, at least
anyone with a shred of decency. The hero falls for a woman he sees as
his soul mate at a bookstore the day of the reunion, unaware she will
show up as his brother's girlfriend at the reunion. He tries to defer
to his brother's claim, but she, knowing our hero is clearly infatuated
with her, teases him mercilessly by wearing sexy clothing and behaving
like a stripper, rubbing all over the brother in a ruse excuse that she
is showing him how to stretch. At one point, she actually disrobes and
gets into a shower with him. He tries to cover his eyes. His heart is
breaking. She thinks it's funny, until she suddenly decides she doesn't
want the brother and leaves the reunion.

The movie really drags. The audience coughed and fidgeted its way
through the long haul. The writing is unintelligent and unbelievable.
We almost walked out, but kept thinking surely something would happen
that would perk things up, but nooooo. All the lovely reviews must have
been written by paid shills, out to dupe poor suckers like me into
seeing crap like this. Comparing it to Little Miss Sunshine??? Jeez.
Shame on them, the writers, the actors, the producers, and the theaters
for letting anything this bad make it to the screen!
<|_=00=_|>
There is a scene in Dan in Real Life where the family is competing to
see which sex can finish the crossword puzzle first. The answer to one
of the clues is Murphy's Law: anything that can go wrong, will go
wrong. This is exactly the case for Dan Burns (Steve Carell, the
Office) a columnist for the local newspaper. Dan is an expert at giving
advice for everyday life, yet he comes to realize that things aren't so
picture perfect in his own. Dan in Real Life is amazing at capturing
these ironies of everyday life and is successful at embracing the
comedy, tragedy, and beauty of them all. Besides that this movie is
pretty damn hilarious.

The death of his wife forces Dan to raise his three daughters all on
his own... each daughter in their own pivotal stages in life: the first
one anxious to try out her drivers license, the middle one well into
her teenage angst phase, and the youngest one drifting away from early
childhood. Things take a turn for Dan when he goes to Rhode Island for
a family reunion and stumbles across an intriguing woman in a
bookstore.

Her name is Marie (Juliette Binoche, Chocolat) and she is looking for a
book to help her avoid awkward situations... which is precisely whats
in store when they get thrown into the Burns Family household.

If you've seen Steve Carell in The Office or Little Miss Sunshine,
you'd know that he is incomparable with comedic timing and a
tremendously dynamic actor as well. Steve Carell is awesome at
capturing all the emotions that come with family life: the frustration
and sincere compassion. The family as well as the house itself provides
a warm environment for the movie that contrasts the inner turmoil that
builds throughout the movie and finally bursts out in a pretty
suspenseful climax. The movie only falls short in some of the
predictable outcomes, yet at the same time life is made up of both
irony and predictability: which is an irony within itself.

Dan in Real Life is definitely worth seeing, for the sole enjoyment of
watching all the funny subtleties we often miss in everyday life, and
I'll most likely enjoy it a second time, or even a third. Just "put it
on my tab."
