
This is a wonderful movie. Simple and elegantly made. There are many
layers to this movie that haven't been written about on this site. More
like frustration and negativity seem to fuel these message boards.
Cynicism is alive and well. The knit-pickers can make a nice lint
blindfold if they choose not to see this movie for what it is:
entertainment. Like Spielberg, Capra and many others the Polish
brothers have arrived with a classic piece of storytelling.

The Polish Brothers have depth and while it seems it's their glossy
turn to make a Hollywood movie they continue with their wit and edge,
try and spot "The Last Supper" scene. Look for the homage to "The Right
Stuff", "Apollo 13" and "Armageddon". The son is named Shepard after
the astronaut. And I assume that the daughter is named Stanley after
Stanley Kubrick since the Grandpa is named HAL ( 2001 : Space Odyssey).
There's definitely an undertone for the hardcore Polish brothers fans.
The dialogue alone is worth the price admission. Of course you'll need
to suspend your disbelief for a story that seems so far fetched, a man
launching himself into space, although I have read of 2 rocket men who
have attempted this same idea-- but every time you walk into a movie
theater you have to surrender some logic. Just the fact it's called a
"movie" should tell you something before you purchase the ticket.

It's unfortunate that most reviewers feel like victims and have a need
to share their boredom. I can imagine this movie not doing good with
men who have lost their inspiration or desire. My brother in fact
didn't like this movie because he said it wasn't possible. I don't
remember him having this much trouble with "E.T." or "Forest Gump". My
brother gave up his dream of being a writer, he now teaches high school
drama. I debated with him over the fact this movie is also metaphorical
and it's about everyones dream. That is why the rocket is named "The
Dreamer" because everyone is dreamer, or has a dream they're building.
This movie really shook up my brother and his dislike of this movie
should motivate him.

I enjoyed this movie so much. I was able to bring my dad, kids and
husband and that in itself is a triumph and the filmmakers should be
awarded for that.

9 out of 10 stars, only because I am keeping one star for my dream.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard there was a movie in which my buddy Billy Bob builds
a rocket in his barn, I thought for sure it must be a comedy or some
sort of spoof or slapstick. Then I saw the trailer, which portrayed the
film as serious drama. Given this background, I must say, I had my
doubts when I went to an advanced screening in Salt Lake City last
night. I need not have worried. The movie was in fact serious (with
some great laughs on the aside) and yet it still worked. 

Admittedly, the follow-your-dreams-no-matter-what genre has been around
since the dawn of time, but Astronaut Farmer manages to stand out
nonetheless. The timeless truths are all the more poignant set against
the backdrop of such an impossible dream. The problems Charlie Farmer
confronts are in many ways similar to problems we all face. Themes of
love, sacrifice, and faith make this movie easy to relate to. It is a
metaphor of being true to yourself and following your dreams, not just
another sappy you-can-do-anything-you-set-your-mind-to knockoff. I
recommend it to anyone who has ever wanted something out of life that
seemed out of reach or that others scoffed at.
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Bob Thornton plays an ex-astronaut trainee, now a Texas rancher,
who never made it to space, so he builds a rocket in his barn. When he
is almost ready and tries to buy rocket fuel the government steps in,
meanwhile he's about to lose his farm to the bank.

Bruce Willis has a small role as the best friend from the astronaut
program who *did* make it into space, and JK Simmmons is good as the
head of the FAA. Bruce Dern's role as Fermer's father-in-law is
disappointing. For a while it's unclear as to exactly who he is in
relationship to the family.

The Astronaut Farmer pretty decent, if you can suspend your disbelief a
little. The science of launching a rocket from an old wooden barn
without burning down the barn is rather, ah... questionable at best.
However, this is *not* a movie about science, it is a movie about
people.

This film is pretty heavy on the relationship angle, my 9 year old
daughter was bored during large sections, and getting ancy. Finally
there were some good action scenes and she got interested again. I'd
say children under the age of 12 wouldn't be very interested in this
movie, but there isn't anything inappropriate. No sex, drugs or
violence, and very mild language.

If you're just going for the entertainment value, it's wonderful. It
has some great laughs, especially a dig on the CIA's ability to locate
weapons of mass destruction. And it has a hilariously accurate running
commentary on small-town life. If you've ever lived in a small town (I
mean a really small town) it is a riot.

The Astronaut Farmer will probably remind you of the 1979 made-for-TV
family-night mini-series "Salvage 1", about a junkyard owner who builds
a rocket from parts in his salvage yard. This one is far better, even
if it does have enough similarities to make you wonder if it's a
smarter, cleaner remake.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this wonderfully charming family movie tonight at a free preview
in Washington, DC.

The Polish brothers and the Warner Brothers, taking a cue from Walden
Media, have hit the family movie sweet spot with this fun, engaging
film. I'm giving it an 8 on the basis of pure solid family
entertainment value.

(If this movie were a car it would probably be a Toyota Camry)

At the start of the screening, Billy Bob Thorton proudly (and
accurately, IMHO) characterized this film as a feel-good Frank
Capraesque popcorn flick - the sort of film that would have been on the
"A" side of a double bill back in the days of his youth.

Billy Bob and Virginia Madsen do terrific jobs with their characters. I
think the timelessly beautiful Ms. Madsen is particularly effective as
Farmer's patient, loving, and somewhat exasperated wife.

(and if I were Stephen Colbert interviewing Billy Bob Thorton, I would
probably ask this question - "Virginia Madsen: hot co-star, or *the
hottest* co-star?").

The story and the arc of the film bring strong elements of "Field of
Dreams" and "October Sky" to mind; but absent the mysticism of the
former and the somewhat dysfunctional family dynamics of the latter. As
a large, tasty helping of pure western Americana I don't doubt for a
minute that this film will be a huge hit in Japan.

This movie pays light homage to films like "The Right Stuff" and
"Apollo 13." Space fanatics, rocket scientists, and other members of
the pocket-protector crowd might experience a few "oh please, you've
got to be kidding" moments, but because of its charm, likable
characters, and strong acting, this movie requires a lot less disbelief
suspension than a film like, oh I don't know, let's say "Armageddon,"
for example.

Speaking of baby-boomer asteroid wranglers, I was also pleasantly
surprised to see Bruce Willis in a small, but key supporting role. I
think it's really great when skilled, immensely watchable actors lend
their talents to bright young film makers. At the Q&A after the film it
was revealed that Bruce took the role as a favor to the Polish brothers
and that he essentially worked for free. It was nice of him to do that.

All of the other members of the well-casted supporting ensemble
(including some young members of the Polish tribe) delivered solid
performances as well.

I won't give you a synopsis of the film here (others are better than me
at that sort of thing); but I will tell you that I plan to take my wife
and 4, 7, and 12 year old kids to see this film for the pure joy of
watching a fun, happy, and slightly quirky movie together as a family.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this last night at an advanced screening. This was a really nice
feel good movie for the entire family. I brought my 6 year old daughter
and she thoroughly enjoyed it. The thematic content I believe was
appropriate for someone as young as her, but I might not bring a
younger child to this movie. There were about 5-6 swear words, but she
didn't even pick up on them. Billy Bob Thornton did a great job in this
movie. Bruce Willis' cameo really was nice. The movie was slow in a few
parts. The grandfather's role wasn't totally clear to me, and some of
the comedic parts seemed a bit forced. Overall, I enjoyed this movie
quite a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
I think you can pretty much gauge whether you're going to like this
film by deciding whether you think these lines (Farmer's thoughts
during a funeral) are good:

There are no stop signs up there. There is no defining space. We have
always defined our space. A wall here, a room there. A hallway, a road.
We have this way of dividing our space until it equals a direction. We
even created a space for the dead. Space is a difficult thing to grasp.

To me, they read just like Bush speaking off the cuff, where he's got
an idea he wants to take a stab at but doesn't bother trying to (or
perhaps can't) put the stab into coherent form. Here the writer clearly
wanted to connect the funeral with outer space somehow, and just
figured any old combination of words would do.

I really liked the part during the credits, when Farmer is on the Leno
show. That seemed so real that I almost thought Billy Bob Thornton
himself had ridden a rocket into space. I'm assuming that was
improvised. Good job, Billy Bob! I also like what Farmer said to the
guy appraising his property. 

But that's it. To me this is a textbook example of a movie make by
people who think that movies are commodities. I could go on and
onthere are examples of bad movie throughoutbut here is just a small
selection:

- I've got this theory that a movie gets to feed you one impossible to
swallow thing and still be good, or great, even. But that thing has to
be mitigated as much as possible, and you don't get to include a second
impossible to swallow thing. I'm gullible enough to buy the premise of
one guy sending himself into orbit. But with just his 15 year old son
for technical help? I don't think so. I'd prefer they had a team of
engineers, but if it's gotta stay within the family, at least make the
kid older, maybe a 22 year old engineer. And have Farmer consult with
some technical people occasionally. It would take hardly anything away
from his achievement. And if you're going to sell the idea of 1.5
people building a huge rocket, you've got to convey the incredible
amount of work involved. They *say* he works on it a lot, but jeez,
show us a montage of him working, or him being too exhausted or sleepy
to move, or *something*.

- Why am I supposed to like this guy? He puts his family at risk of
complete financial ruin, after seeing what that did to his father. He
rents (or buys) a carnival ride to put on the property for the kids to
play with, when there is literally no money for groceries. He throws a
brickhard--at his friend who works in a bank. The first time he
launches, his wife, in their house and unaware, is so close that the
windows explode all around her. He doesn't warn the crowd hanging out
outside his ranch, comes within feet of killing them, then doesn't
express regret or warn them the second time. He carelessly loses his
wedding ring and doesn't give a rip or spend time looking for it (and
he has a surprising amount of free time), even though it bothers his
wife. And he yanks his kids out of school for a month to help him; Tell
me those little girls are going to be of any use beyond bringing him
sandwiches and lemonade. And there's talk about how what he's doing is
for the whole family, but he seems to be in it completely for himself.
For example, he's not shown taking any photos to share later.

- Getting access to fuel is the main thing holding him back (the other
being permission to launch). When he gets the idea for an alternative
fuel, he tells his son, "we got all the stuff right here in the barn,"
by which apparently he means a rocketful of fuel components, because
you never see anything delivered. Then, to get fuel for the second
launch, he uses the tired guy-dressed-like-him ploy to send *all* of
the people surveilling his place on a wild goose chase, so the tanker
can just drive right in unnoticed. Sure, I believe that would work just
fine.

-When they're building the second ship you hear an audio montage of
technical talk, to convince you that they're, well, doing technical
stuff. They slip in an overly-obvious "Oxygen could last three times
longer than needed. But let's not put that to the test." Smooth,
writers Polish! Then, in the event, Farmer stays up in orbit *way* more
than three times the planned amount, and does just fine.

- Virginia Madsen (who overacts in the film, BTW) brings home money
from the bank to build the second rocket, apparently in cash, in a
paper bag, like she stole it. And in the span of one gesture, the light
switches from midday to sunset, something you can't avoid noticing. Why
didn't they fix that?

-Tell me that crash wouldn't have killed Farmer really, really, dead,
no matter how good his capsule protection was. 

- I'm tired of films with a technical aspect making tons of gross
errors that would bother an average 8th grade science student. Why the
writers don't consult an 8th grade science student to patch that up is
beyond me, but I'd bet that if I were to point the errors out to them,
they'd say something like "This isn't a film about science. It's a film
about how 'Families is where our nation finds hope, where wings take
dream '" (which is an actual Bush quote, not a typo.) Well, it can be
about families and dreams and *still* not yank people out of their
suspension of disbelief.

- Tom
<|_=00=_|>
I just came back from an advanced screening of this film in Toronto and
I really did not know what to expect. I had a free coupon for it and
really had no idea what the film was about. Although being skeptical at
first I must say that this is an amazing film. It's humorous, it's
engaging, and in general a real feel-good movie, with solid
performances by everyone including the child-actors. Even though the
story may seem outrageous and unrealistic, the emotions evoked are
completely genuine and make this film one of the greatest surprises for
me this year. I definitely recommend this film for everyone as it
demonstrates how dreams define who we are and should never die.
<|_=00=_|>
I only considered this because I am a big fan of Billy-Bob. I expected
the film to be full of bad science, but I wasn't prepared for the
torrent of non-science and anti-science I got. Certainly, filmmakers
have licence to take liberties to some extent, but I haven't seen
anything this ludicrous since Spielberg had ET making a radio
transceiver out of a Speak-and-Spell.

This film is really a venture into nauseatingly Spielbergesque
schmaltziness which is guaranteed to make a profit by unfailingly
attracting the same gullible folks who gush over the disaster film
where the world got destroyed, but fortunately, the boy and his dog
were saved.

Launching a rocket from a wooden barn isn't just stupid. The stupidest
person on the planet would know that the barn would be incinerated,
along with all other buildings on the property. In real rocket
launches, the pad is deluged with millions of gallons of water during
lift-off to contain the damage to the massive reinforced concrete
structure.

Any liquid-fueled rocket must be supported by a gigantic cryogenic
plant, which was nowhere in evidence.

Any launch failure resulting in the rocket tipping over would most
certainly not culminate in it being launched horizontally, to go
skimming along the ground for a few miles. What you would get is a
massive fireball at about 10,000 degrees F.

The haphazard re-entry firing results in a landing just a few miles
from the launch point. How convenient. NASA could only predict
splashdown within a 2000 or so square mile area.

There are so many more, but I would get ill if I went on. This film was
made by people who know nothing about science for people who know
nothing about science. There are certainly enough of those, going by
the proportion of gushing reviews seen here.

I haven't even gone into how those same people don't seem bothered in
the least by the fact that Charlie's "dream" is just so selfish and
inconsiderate. There's nothing noble about pursuing your dream no
matter how much it may damage those around you (literally and
figuratively).

There is no way artistic licence can justify portraying science this
bad. I believe even Spielberg wouldn't have touched this one, and
that's saying something. I give it a 2, only because Billy-Bob managed
to get through it without throwing up once.
<|_=00=_|>
It's clear a lot of critics don't know what to make of this movie. It's
best described as mostly a fantasy with naturalistic elements. The
emotions are real, they are strong, and the film is always grounded in
the earth. But you are never quite sure where it is going. It will veer
into farce, then melodrama, then social commentary, and back again. It
seems to be taking place in the present day, yet not quite: the
sensibilities are from the 60s, the entrepreneurial we-can-do-it spirit
from the 80s, and the despair from the 00s. It is strange, and it is
dreamlike, and at times it seems to barely make sense, but it all
works. The audience I was with was enthralled and almost all of them
stayed through the end of the credits -- a good sign indeed.

I can imagine what the high-concept presentation must have been like:
"It's just your typical save-the-farm family drama, only dad is a . .
."

"Don't tell me. A space alien," yawns the studio-head.

"Well, close, but not quite. He's a former astronaut who may be a nut
case, we're never quite sure."

The studio-head is a little more interested. "And he;s planning to blow
up the world?"

"No, though a lot of people think he is."

The head of the studio thinks about. "I think I like it. Throw in some
cute kids and we've got ourselves a movie."

I'm being cynical, of course, and this is not a cynical movie. There is
not a false note in it in fact, the music is perfect, the
cinematography is first-rate, the casting is superb (watch for Bruce
Dern looking very similar to Doc Brown in the Back to the Future
movies). While inspirational, follow your dream movies usually don't
work for me, this one does, it has such an amazingly goofy charm that
only the stiffest of film critics could resist it (and alas, according
to that well-known movie review site, as I write this just under 40%
don't get it.) If this movie in not on most 10-best lists at year-end,
it is going to be one heck of a year. 

I don't know if the film is going to do well. Early box office looks
weak, but word- of-mouth may help. See it in a theater now if you are
at all hesitant. This one will be remembered. 

One final note: something like this story could actually happen in a
generation or two, assuming humanity doesn't destroy itself. That
spaceship-in-the-barn tale will make a great movie when it does. This
story makes a great movie now.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie proves that Hollywood can make great family movies. I just
saw an advanced screening of this movie in AZ and must say it was
fantastic. The Polish brothers (writers, producers, directors, stars,
fathers of stars) and Billy Bob Thornton were in attendance for a Q&A
after the film and were quite interesting. They said this movie cost
$12 million dollars to make and was done as an independent. The movie
shows how a family can come together to accomplish a task and achieve a
dream even when the full weight of the Gov. comes against them. No
matter which side of the political aisle you are on you will find the
timely shots at the government funny. This movie will hit all your
emotional buttons. Support the INDEPENDENT film makers! GO SEE THIS
MOVIE! By the way the two little girls who star as Billy Bob's kids are
the daughters of the Polish bothers.
