
If you had ever told me that I would end up really liking a movie
starring Marky Mark from the Funky Bunch and the lead singer of Outkast
(the perpetrators of one of the most annoying songs in recent history -
Hey Ya) then I would've laughed right in your face. Come on, a movie
with three rappers (Tyrese throws down the rhymes also, yo!)? There's
no way I would've expected that to satisfy my entertainment needs. But
I'm man enough to admit that I would've been wrong.

Four Brothers is a gritty, testosterone-fueled crowd pleaser that mixes
drama, action, and humor. If you're looking for something light and
fluffy then keep on looking because you won't find it here. But if
you're in the mood to see some bad guys get pumped full of bullets and
fists then this will put a smile on your face. The audience at the
screening I attended was clapping and cheering throughout the movie.
You'd have thought we were at a wrestling match.

This plays out a bit like a Western. A wrong is done, a posse seeks to
get revenge against the wrongdoers, and the wrongdoers are painted in
such an unlikable fashion that you're just begging for them to taste a
little vigilante justice.

As for the good guys, well, they fall under the "anti-hero" moniker.
They aren't scared to sidestep the law in order to get what they're
after. But within the context of the movie you can't really blame their
motives. Their mother adopted them when nobody else wanted anything to
do with them. They were considered lost causes, yet she took them in,
gave them a family, and put her faith in them.

They didn't turn out to be saints, but as one cop says, "They're
Congressmen compared to what they would've been." Now their mother,
just an old lady always trying to do good, is dead and the cops don't
seem to be doing anything about it. Wrongs have to be made right, and
the brothers decide they're the ones that have to make it right.

This is one of those movies that I figured I'd somewhat enjoy, but I
walked out of the theater thinking, "Man, I didn't expect it to be THAT
good!" It's rare that I find such a diamond in the rough, so I savor it
as if I'm Rob Schneider at a stupid movie convention.

One reason I had my doubts going in was I feared it might be drowned in
loud, annoying hip-hop stylings. Plus, every Outkast song I've ever
heard has made me want to gouge my eardrums with a letter opener, so I
feared the worst from Andre Benjamin. "How annoying is this guy going
to be?" I asked myself. But all my fears were unfounded. Instead, we're
surrounded by a world of crooked cops, bad guys who wear man-furs,
surprisingly good acting, believable chemistry, a couple of subtle
twists, and a really cool car chase on ice. I'm always up for a good
revenge flick, and I'm happy to report that this one exceeded my
expectations.

THE GIST 

Are you easily offended by violent revenge flicks? Then use your common
sense and skip out on Four Brothers. But if that sounds like your kind
of movie then I think you'll find this one works great within the
genre.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm drawn to movies whose trailers inspire a visceral reaction...This
one's is so clich√©d...Poor old Mom gets whacked and her adopted sons go
after the crooks...Still, the action in the trailer inspired me...gave
me that feeling of wanting to see the bad guys get it, and after seeing
the film, I can say I was not disappointed. The story moves along and
does not step outside of itself. There are some intriguing plot twists,
but the goal of revenge always remains. The performances are solid; we
have experienced film actors and a director here who know what they're
doing. Even the newer actors settle into their respective roles...

John Singleton stated he wanted to do something with a "western edge"
and in this film he has done just that. The story could be transplanted
100 years back and still work. While there is a great deal of action,
violence, and bloodshed, it is not shot with an abundance of CGI or
special effects...to that end, the action looks and feels more
realistic. The film pulls you in and takes you for a nice ride, which
is more than can be said of a lot of recent releases...It's not going
to win Oscars, but it should be a hit. It's definitely worth a look!
<|_=00=_|>
One good thing Steven Spielberg has done for 21th century movies is to
show the importance of starting things off with a bang rather than a
whimper, something he learned from the old grade B films of the 30's,
40's, and 50's. So when director John Singleton begins "Four Brothers"
he doesn't dwell on background material about how mom came to be the
shining star for her boys. Singleton goes right for the jugular by
showing mom's demise--I say showing, the viewer doesn't actually see
the killing in the beginning. Singleton builds up the relationship
between mom and the brothers step by step, letting a Detroit policeman,
Lt. Green (Terrence Howard), introduce the four brothers as they show
up for the funeral and become reacquainted. Not to give away the story,
one heavy leads to another until the whole city of Detroit becomes a
personification of corruption and evil. I loved the Motown music played
throughout the film which was very apropos for the setting.

Even though the acting was first-rate throughout, I especially liked
the performances given by Josh Charles as Detective Fowler and by
Garrett Hedlund as Jack Mercer. I know Josh Charles has appeared in
movies I have seen but I don't remember his acting standing out as it
does in this film. Also Chiwetel Ejiofor was just right as the slimy
egomaniac Victor Sweet--and what a name for a character this egregious.

The action is first rate and there is plenty of it from start to
finish. Hold on to your seats for the scary gun battle between mom's
boys hold up in her old house and Sweet's hired thugs. You won't be
able to get out of your seat during this shoot-out.

I highly recommend this movie for fans of the genre. Others should
enjoy it too.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I'm a girl who normally loves "chick flicks" and comedies, so when
I had nothing to do this evening and decided to go see a movie with my
parents, (I thought they were seeing "Deuce Bigalow: European
Gigalo"...but alas I was incorrect.) and discovered we were going to
see "Four Brothers", I was a little upset. I'm normally not one for
movies that are seemingly all about people getting revenge and lots of
killing and fighting. I dunno..I'm not one for the action/drama
type...unless it's a horror movie, and then I'm definitely there.
Anyways, I was genuinely surprised at how good this movie ended up
being. Each of the four brothers gave an amazing performance. Andre
Benjamin showed that he's not only a talented singer, but a talented
actor as well.

The movie was much better than I had expected. I laughed, and I
(almost) cried. It went through a range of so many different emotions
and events in the lives of the four troubled men, all adopted when they
were children by one amazing woman who became their world. I don't
really know what else to say without spoiling the movie, so I'm going
to just leave you with all of what I've said, and the fact that I would
most definitely recommend this movie to anyone and everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember first seeing the trailer for this movie about a year ago
before a movie I watched last summer and thought it looked very
promising. A year later I had almost forgot about it until I started
seeing commercials on TV and I got my hopes high. To be honest, this is
probably the first movie that met my expectations.

I didn't go in expecting the greatest movie ever, I mean it does have
Marky Mark in it and I'd hate to think he's be the start of my favorite
movie of all time. But I did expect it to be exciting, emotional, and
engaging... And it was.

One of the things this movie does best is show the love and commitment
between the brothers. The chemistry between the actors was excellent
and really added to the feel of the film. It takes a lot to get emotion
out of me in a movie, I'm talking the beginning of Saving Private Ryan
a lot, so I unfortunately didn't feel as much as some of the other
people in the theater, but you know something is right when people
cheer when the main characters kill bad guys and yell "NO!" when things
don't go right. The emotions between the brothers also led to many very
funny comic moments, which I did not expect to see as many as I did. I
laughed many times.

Singleton is probably a better write than director, but he does a
decent job through out. Most of the film is simple camera angles and
what not, but there were a few moments, specifically a car chase, that
was shot really well. It was all done in a manor that kept it realistic
while keeping it interesting. It should also be noted that this movie
had the SECOND most intense shoot out I've ever seen in a movie. Second
only to, of course, the LA streets shoot out in Heat which, in my
opinion, is the most intense 15 minutes ever filmed.

Acting was decent. Like mentioned before, the chemistry between the
brothers was great, but there were many simple one-liners and Mark
Wahlberg seems to play the same character way too often. Not really
acting so much as reading lines in a tough way.

While this isn't the #1 movie of the year it definitely met my
expectations and is a very, very good summer action flick of not more.
<|_=00=_|>
As the Summer is winding down that means a couple things. One is that
Fall/Winter feel-good, and more animated movies than you can count are
coming to theaters. Also, it also means that the Summer Movies of 05
are closing. HOO-RAYYY!!! But wait hold on, before it is gone one of
few good movies sneaks in. It is the new John Singleton movie Four
Brothers, and what a good one it is.

Four Brothers is about four adopted degenerates whose mom is murdered
and they come back to their old camping ground to, one bury her, and
the other, to look for her killers and bury them as well. It starts out
fantastic, then loses a little steam, and at the end comes together
perfectly to have you talking about it at the water cooler the next
day.

Mark Walbergh, Garrett Hedlund, Andre 3000, and Tyrese Gibson play the
four brothers and do a fantastic job as playing the delinquents. They
really look like they're right out of the mean streets of Michigan.
They also act and speak like it as well. So if you're thinking about
taking little kiddies (5-12) you might want to make sure they can
handle it because there is enough profanity and shooting to go around.
So, if you are looking for a good film this Summer, check one out you
might pass over called Four Brothers.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always loved revenge movies, and this one fits the bill because it
has four brothers trying to find out the truth of their mother's
murder. The four brothers are all superb in their roles, as adopted
brothers from foster care that went their separate ways, who come home
to find out who killed their mother and why. The 8 minute AOL trailer
on the movies sold me. Also superb is Terrence Howard as a Detroit cop
who doesn't trust his own who is desperately trying to find out what
happened himself. The plot is well executed through twists and turns.
Mark Wahlberg just gets better and better. He was great in "Three
Kings," and he is better here.
<|_=00=_|>
I had been scoping this movie since it was called "Untitled Mark
Wahlberg Project'. Being directed by John Singleton and starring Mark
Wahlberg it looked promising. I knew I wanted to see it after reading
5/5 reviews and seeing entertaining trailers of it. Eventually I saw it
for a friends's birthday party, and I was impressed!

A standout thing in this movie is that it perfectly combines the
action, comedy and drama genres together. At times it can have you
laughing out loud, others it can have you quite sad and on the edge of
your seat in excitement viewing the great action scenes.

The four lead actors do a great job. Mark Wahlberg plays a character
which is different from what he normally plays and he pulls it off
well. Andre Benjamin (or Andre 3000 from OutKast) does a great job too.
He is definitely much better than just the usual rapper turned actor.

The story is great. It has a much thicker plot than what would be
expected from a revenge movie. In fact, that is another standout thing,
the original storyline.

Overall this is definitely a movie you should see. A refreshing change
from the comedy remakes we normally see coming out of the theater. One
that will be on my to buy list.
<|_=00=_|>
I was ready to bet that this was a remake after an older movie. Great
60's and 70's music, the endless theme of the small town terrorized by
a villain and the rise to justice of the people involved, Mark
Wahlberg... ;) 

OK, I am unfair to the man, but it's true isn't it? He is always cast
into old looking movies or remakes. I actually like how he is playing.
I think that he is a reasonable actor and has potential beyond the
action movies in which we've become accustomed to seeing him.

The plot is quite simple: adoptive mother of four and town saint gets
killed by thugs. The four brothers kick ass accordingly. But beyond the
obvious clich√©, the movie was quite good. The actors played well, the
feelings were nicely transmitted to the audience and the details were
realistic enough and emotion conveying. Actually, for this kind of
movie, I am ready to grade high.

The bad thing about this film were the villains. Unconvincing small
time crooks that suddenly have the power to hire people with Steyr
Augur rifles and other high power weapons. Unconvincing crooked cop who
has no motive for actually being corrupt. In the end, the movie is
rather relaxing, considering we never meet anything unexpected.

Worth a watch, although I would rate it as a TV movie, to watch in bed,
rather than a cinema thing.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the movie last night and I really wasn't sure what to
expect going in, and I must say I'm very impressed with the results.
Despite a few hitches (how clich√© this movie really is, I.E. revenge),
it really did deliver. All four of the brothers delivered the flavor
that this movie probably would have needed and I must say that the
screenplay must have been superb. This movie pays the obvious homage to
Death Wish and it's been quite overdone, but not without receiving the
credit it deserves.

If you like action drama, then I'd recommend you go out and pay the $8
to see it. I don't think you'll be too disappointed.
