
I thought it was a great story and very well cast. I didn't enter the
theatre with expectations of learning the truth about Jane Austen's
world, who was in it and what made her tick. I understood the movie was
loosely based on the life of Jane Austen. The writers have simply
devised a beautiful and clever story from only a small shred of
evidence that there was a true love in her life. From what I gather the
movie was really meant to be an fictional intervention in her life
devised from what was known of her. I thought Becoming Jane was funny,
beautifully shot and it made me giddy with lust over McEvoy. I loved
the sexual energy and meeting of the minds between the love interests.
I saw quite a few parallels between this story and Jane's novels. I
really believe that Jane would absolutely adore this version, if not
find it amusing how it was crafted. I do agree that to create a story
about a much loved female author is risky territory, as there are
devoted fans of Austen's who are looking for a representation that they
personally feel fits their idea of what motivated her as a writer.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood can't seem to get enough of dead female English writers. Hot
on the heels of Miss Potter, and in advance of films about the Brontes,
we have this romantic confection about Jane Austen's youthful fling
with Irish barrister Tom Lefroy.

There have already been howls of criticism from outraged Janeites that
the film is historically inaccurate. It's true that English teachers
will have a fit at some elements of the story: at best speculative and
unsubstantiated, at worst downright erroneous. The filmmakers
admittedly didn't have a lot of historical material to work from. The
true background to the story is contained in a couple of letters
written by Jane Austen to her sister Cassandra, and an admission by Tom
Lefroy in old age that he had once been in 'boyish love' with the
writer. On this slightly shaky platform, the filmmakers have built a
story of repressed passion and defiance of social mores that is a work
of fiction worthy of a novel in its own right.

This doesn't really matter. Nobody in their right mind would ever
accept the version of events presented by a Hollywood biopic as
historical gospel. The only viewers who will be taken in by the story
seen here will be those who are too lazy, too uninterested or too
credulous to do the modicum of research needed to find out the real
facts, and who cares what such people think? This film may be largely
untrue, but what really matters is whether it works on its own terms,
qua film.

Unfortunately, it doesn't, or at least not entirely. The main reason
for this is the underlying premise. It is implied that without Jane and
Tom's youthful affair Jane Austen would never have written her six
great novels, and in particular (perhaps because it's the most familiar
to audiences) Pride and Prejudice. We see Jane angrily destroying a
juvenile story criticized by Tom, and later, in the throes of love,
bashing out the first draft of P & P (in a single night, which shows an
impressive turn of speed). It's plain that, as Tom tells her,
'experience is vital'.

The same clunkingly literal idea Â– that an artist must experience
emotions in order to write about them successfully - underscored
Shakespeare in Love, but there it was handled with a rather lighter
touch. Here we are asked to believe that Pride and Prejudice was not a
distillation of all Jane Austen's youthful experiences enlivened by a
vivid imagination, a sharp sense of humour and a dollop of literary
genius, but the next best thing to a true story. The reasons for this
approach are obvious: cinema can dramatize Johnny Cash learning the
guitar, or Picasso experimenting with paint, but the spectacle of a
writer sitting at a desk dreaming and scribbling palls pretty rapidly.

The irony of a film that takes such wild liberties with the facts
relying upon this trite old idea would certainly have been apparent to
Jane Austen, whose mastery of irony is emphasized rather unsubtly
throughout. Moreover, it's intellectually dishonest; lacking the
ability to create a Mr Darcy, the filmmakers borrow freely from Jane
Austen's characterisation in creating Tom, and thereby cheekily suggest
that the author was the one who lacked the imagination to make such a
person up.

These reservations aside, does the film have anything going for it?
Yes. The script has some witty moments and at least makes a decent stab
at realistic 18th century dialogue. Ireland is a surprisingly effective
and gorgeous substitute for Hampshire, and the autumnal palette of
washed-out greens and greys is appropriately sombre. Anne Hathaway is
an attractively skittish and impetuous Jane, and she has excellent
chemistry with James McAvoy, whose performance as Tom, by turns
mercurial and obsessive, is well up to his usual high standards.
Reliable support comes from James Cromwell, Julie Walters, the late
great Ian Richardson and Maggie Smith, who essentially reprises her
character from Gosford Park. The problem is that the lovers' behaviour
never really convinces us that this relationship was the foundation of
Jane Austen's later literary success, and ultimately peters out into a
series of implausible endings, the number of which gives Hot Fuzz and
The Return of the King a run for their money. Becoming Jane isn't an
awful film, but it doesn't make the grade as a Regency Brief Encounter.
<|_=00=_|>
A film about Jane Austen, one of the greatest writers of English
literature, will garner expectations and hopes, especially with a
cascade of stars newly discovered (James McAvoy, Anne Hathaway) and
well-established (Julie Walters, Maggie Smith, James Cromwell). That it
focuses on her life before she becomes a writer certainly had not
dulled my appetite.

The 22 yr old Austen is played by the very pretty Anne Hathaway, who
you'll know from Brokeback Mountain and The Devil Wears Prada. We meet
her family when her older sister is happily married. The cash-strapped
parents have the pressing problem of finding eligible young Jane a
husband. A promising offer is the stuck-up relative of wealthy Lady
Gresham (Maggie Smith), who Jane rejects.

Let's meet Tom Lefroy. He's a penniless, charming, intelligent,
apprentice lawyer. He also loves boxing, drinking and the fairer sex.
These latter hobbies, mind you, do not endear him to his uncle, the
imperious Judge Langlois, who promptly sentences him to a summer in
Hampshire as punishment. In a rustic backdrop of dancing and
match-making, Jane and Tom develop a teasing, flirtatious rapport.
Unlike the other men in her life, Tom presents Jane with intellectual
company as well as dashing good looks and a flair for the odd chat-up.
As they grow more serious about each other, they become equally aware
of how doomed their relationship is - something their elders twigged on
page one. But Tom has given Jane something she needs - the knowledge of
the heart that will impassion her writing.

Firstly be warned. If you are expecting a nice feel-good movie, don't
bother. This made me thoroughly miserable. Not just because a poignant
lonely destiny is too much to bear, but because it's a wasted
opportunity to bring a great life to the screen. Our ultimate theme
Austen's writing, yet we see little to convince that this bland and
photogenic girl has much between the ears. In Devil Wears Prada, an
outstanding script enabled Hathaway to suggest hidden brainpower. In
Becoming Jane, the occasionally erudite lines sound leaden and false.
Her body language, meant to portray a rebel, seems a bit anachronistic.
Although she looks quite resplendent, dashing across the hills in a
billowing red dress to watch the lads skinny-dipping, the film is a sad
disappointment in the development of Hathaway's otherwise promising
career. Kate Winslet or Natalie Portman (who were apparently also
considered for the role) might well have fared better: they have a
depth and experience that could perhaps have compensated for such a
clunky script. Maggie Smith and other strong actors are reduced to
ciphers and little more than icing on a badly made cake.

On the other hand, James McAvoy (fresh from The Last King of Scotland)
is a revelation. In what seems like a flash of brilliance in the
generally myopic casting, he shines in every scene. A talented actor,
he also brings his skills in boxing and sport to imbue Lefroy with
vibrancy and charisma. It is when he works his seductive charms on Jane
that he also brings out the best in his co-star. After her first adult
kiss, Jane trembles, wondering if she has done it well. Hathaway does
gooey-eyed emotion much better than persuading us she is a genius about
to happen. The film gathers pace as we are drawn into an emotional cat
and mouse. Jane's 'experience of the heart' that will inspire her, is
the one of the best things about the film, second only to the large and
constantly moist dollops of budget-saving Irish countryside.

But how does the film reflect on Jane Austen the author? Austen's
possible flirtations with Mr Thomas Langlois Lefroy are more
speculative than fact. Historian Jon Spence worked as a consultant on
the film and has written a book of the same name, which is probably a
must-have for Austen fans. He gives attention to the inspiration he
feels Lefroy gave to Jane, and this is developed into actual events in
the movie.

Austen is one of the most influential and revered novelists of the
early nineteenth century and her social commentary is marked with a
strong sense of irony. Devotees will no doubt enjoy scenes such as the
one where she corrects Tom's uncle on the definition of the word
'irony'. But the transition from girlishness to mastery with words is
so contrived that it could almost be two parallel scripts.

There are many that will love Becoming Jane in spite of its
imperfections. The rest of us might wish it had been told better.
<|_=00=_|>
Seldom does one go to a movie with high expectations and ends up having
them fulfilled, but Becoming Jane is an exception in this case. I was
charmed by Anne Hathaway's turn in Brokeback Mountain and The Devil
Wears Prada and couldn't really understand the outcry resulting in her
being cast as Jane Austen and after having watched the movie I know for
sure Anne Hathaway was the right person for the role.

Hot on the heels of 2005's Pride and Prejudice this movie offers a look
into the early years of a spirited Jane Austen and her encounter with a
man who could have formed the basis of one of her most famous literary
characters Mr Darcy.

I have to say this movie is without a doubt one of the BEST period
films I have ever seen. Not only is it visually stunning but the
performances from everyone are superb.

Maggie Smith a delightful as the shrewd old Aunt.

Julie Walters excellent as the mother who would give anything to knock
some sense into her daughter ( Jane Austen that is ).

Anna Maxwell Martin is also very good as the sister and confidante of
Jane Austen.

The director Julian Jarrold has done a wonderful job of making an
amazing movie that will appeal to all generations.

And finally the two very charming leads who are the very heart of the
movie : Anne Hathaway and James McAvoy. In one word both are AWESOME.
James although has little screen time then Anne makes you understand
the sheer cockiness and arrogance of Tom Lefroy, from his live free
attitude in life to his transformation as a man who begins to care for
Jane Austen.His chemistry with Anne Hathaway is sizzling and a very
important factor in maintaining the movie's momentum.

And at last to the leading lady Anne Hathaway. The lady is a marvel as
Jane Austen, her determination and spark is vividly captured by Anne in
what can be called a very career defining performance. Not only does
one feel the pain for Jane but one does marvel at what holds her
together and her writing makes her pull through in life.It is Anne
Hathaway's spirited portrayal of the literary icon that forms the
essence of the movie.

From her determination to write and her heart break to her feisty
attitude to succeed as a writer is uniquely captures by the young
actress. One can't really find the exact words to describe the
actress's performance as Jane Austen , which is if simply put great.

This movie has the makings to become the period drama of the year. A
fine job by the actors and entire crew of the movie for giving us an
insight to what could have been very important years in the young
authors life.

A delight to watch in every sense 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
It is a truth universally acknowledged that reviews of Jane Austen
movies must begin with the phrase 'It is a truth universally
acknowledged...'.

I know very little about Jane Austen's life, although I spotted an
error in this movie anyway: her deaf-mute older brother George was NOT
raised at home with her (as seen here); he was institutionalised, and
the hand-signing which Anne Hathaway briefly uses here is partly
anachronistic. I confess that I've very little interest in Miss Austen,
nor in her novels. But I'm hugely interested in the Regency period in
which she lived. As I watched 'Becoming Jane', I was pleasantly
astounded by the incredible period detail throughout the film: the
houses (inside and out), the books, the churchyards, the carriages and
coaches, the clothing. Even the musical instruments, the music and the
dances are authentic! Well done! Of course, all these late 18th-century
people have 20th-century orthodontia, and their hair is too clean. And
the cricket bats don't look (or sound) as if they were made of willow,
as they should have been.

I know that some people will be watching this movie for the costumes,
so let me assure you that there are plenty of Empire waists,
coal-scuttle bonnets, top boots and Kate Greenaway frocks. Several of
the ladies wear delightful gloves.

This movie follows most of the rules for costume-drama chick-flicks. We
get the de rigueur scene in which fully-clothed young women
surreptitiously watch naked young men. (But not the reverse, of
course.) We get the de rigueur scene in which a young woman performs a
traditionally male activity and (of course) she beats the men at their
own game. At a cricket match, Jane Austen steps into the crease. The
bowler gives her an easy one, and (of course) she knocks it for six.

I suspect that most of this movie is fiction, and there is indeed one
of those 'based on facts' disclaimers in the end credits. I was annoyed
that various characters in this film constantly tell Jane Austen that,
as a woman, she cannot hope to be the equal of a man, nor can she
expect a happy life without a husband. These may indeed have been the
accepted realities of Austen's time, but I had difficulty believing
that so many people (especially young men who hope to win her) would
make a point of making these comments so explicitly and so often.

Also, everyone in this movie keeps telling Jane that she cannot
possibly write about anything which she hasn't experienced. (So she
can't write about sexual passion unless ... nudge, nudge.) However,
even in Austen's day, this premise was demonstrably untrue. If I want
to write a murder mystery, do I need to commit a murder?

The performances in this film are universally excellent. Any movie with
Dame Maggie Smith in it, I'm there. Ian Richardson (in his last role)
is superb, wringing the full value from some succulent dialogue. James
Cromwell has matured into one of the finest character actors I've ever
seen, progressing light-years beyond the infantile Norman Lear sitcom
roles of his early career.

As Jane Austen, Anne Hathaway has the sense to attempt only a very
slight English accent, but she is far too pretty for this role. The
real Jane Austen was apparently not pretty, and this was a major reason
for why she never married. It beggars belief that the Jane Austen seen
here -- the one who looks like Anne Hathaway -- would have so much
difficulty attracting suitors. However, I'm a realist: there's simply
no way that any production company would spend this much money on a
costume romance and then cast an unattractive actress in the lead role.

Evidence indicates that Jane Austen's sister Cassandra was the prettier
of the two, and that this discrepancy strongly shaped their
relationship. But, again, there's no way that the makers of this film
would upstage their own star actress by casting someone more beautiful
as her sister. Anna Maxwell Martin, cast here as Cassandra, is a
splendid actress and fairly attractive but certainly no beauty in
Hathaway's league.

At the end of the film, a title card alludes to Jane Austen's 'short
life'. She actually lived to age 41: a longer lifespan than any of the
BrontÃ« sisters', and fairly normal for Regency England. In the last
scenes of this film, we see Hathaway in some dodgy 'age' make-up which
makes her look rather more sixtyish than fortyish. Near the end of her
life, the real Jane Austen had an unidentified illness which darkened
her skin: again, I have no expectations of a big-budget film doing
anything to compromise the beauty of its leading actress.

This film's title 'Becoming Jane' is a subtle pun, since Hathaway's
embodiment of Jane Austen is so very 'becoming'. Geddit?

The makers of 'Becoming Jane' have gone to considerable trouble to give
their target audience precisely what that audience want, which is only
marginally related to the facts. On that score, they have succeeded.
And the art direction in this movie is astonishingly thorough, and
good. I'll rate 'Becoming Jane' 8 out of 10 as an excellent FICTION
film.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate to come across an article explaining this film. It is a
speculative fiction based upon a few facts. Speculation was aroused by
the fact that a woman who never married and apparently never had a love
affair came to have such a deep and intelligent understanding of
relationships. I shan't expand on how potentially offensive that is.
But story line is based on a few simple facts. While he was in the
country Jane Austen would have almost certainly met Mr Lefroy; while on
a journey to see her sister she had a rather long stop off in London
during which time she began writing Pride and Prejudice and there was
the mention of some letters.

It started out so well; the stifling quiet of a country life broken by
our future genius at work. The structure of this opening sequence was
very effective. I was thinking I'm going to love this film. But there
was a niggling in the back of my mind. None of the reviews had been
great, but I didn't know why (I hadn't actually read any only seen the
2 Â½ or 3 stars).

I continued thinking it was wonderful through most of the film. James
McAvoy was beautifully intense, Anne Hathaway was solid, Maggie Smith
delightfully amusing and Anna Maxwell Martin underused. There were some
beautiful scenes, some so intense. For example a scene in a ball when
they are both standing back to back apparently to talking other people
but having a very deep conversation.

But then, as with far too many movies we moved through the climax to an
ending of this story line and that story line oh and we'd better
conclude this one as well and now everything is tied up in a neat
little bundle.

This is a film that would have benefited from an ambivalent ending,
because, aside from the fact that we know she ends up the Western
World's highest selling female author the film wasn't actually about
that. The film was about the journey toward it. To have left us hanging
when, perhaps, she was leaving Lefroy or back in her stiflingly quiet
house would have been much more effective in terms of the story and
strengthened the film. It simply is not a happy ending but they tried
their damned well hardest to make it one.

I'm afraid I must give this a very generous 7 rather than what could
have been a deserving 8 had the film makers (or the studio or whoever
the twats are that decide on these things) the courage to make this a
film, not Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I enjoyed it. I think there were some problems with
it, but overall a nice film. Hathaway's accent is very good apart from
a couple of very minor slips that could almost go unnoticed. The film,
the person I went with said, was a little too slow in places, but I did
not find this so. I think that the director perhaps put a little too
much emphasis on Austen's inspirations for her novels and in particular
Pride and Prejudice, but I did not mind this too much as that is my
favourite novel. The acting all round was very good. MaCavoy played it
nicely, giving a lot of energy. I thought that the opening and closing
were perhaps a little weak. I don't want to say too much in case others
have not seen it yet (though of course most know the ending, they may
not know the films interpretation of it). Perhaps the only few
weaknesses to the film was the fact that perhaps Hathaway was too
pretty to play Austen, though she did a very competent job indeed. I
think that Anna Maxwell Martin may perhaps have been more suited?! The
other is that I would have liked to have seen slightly more quick
wittedness on the part of Jane. She was shown as competent, but not as
cutting and quick as I and, I imagine, many believe she was. However,
despite this I quite enjoyed the film, and wouldn't mind watching it
again. It is better that Pride and Prejudice 2005 adaptation in my
opinion. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on March 28th, 2007 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival's Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "Â…explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

The "Jane" is Jane Austen and this is a fictional depiction of her
young adult life before her novel writing career. I suppose half of the
tale is based on fact such as she rejected a marriage proposal, and
half the tale is made up to create engaging story-telling. But that's
not important.

The essence of the story is the mores of proper English society around
1800. Woman had their place. And that place was to give oneself to an
arranged marriage and become a dutiful wife and mother. It was even
more important to be in these roles if you were a daughter of a
minister of modest means who had lots of children to care for. Jane was
one of those children.

But Jane has spunk and smarts and a stubbornness to live her own life
as she sees fit. Anne Hathaway plays young Jane convincingly and Anne's
good looks are played down as much as possible. It's Jane's inner self
that makes her attractive and not her exterior appearance.

And she is so attractive that she has three suitors; the rich and dull
one, the poor and roguish one, and a secret and nefarious one. This
circumstance allows us to see England from the various social strata,
which is fun and informative.

Jane, 200 years ahead of her time, shows beauty and grace and charm and
spirit, and will not buckle to her day's lot in life. We should all
have such courage "Â… to follow our bliss" knowing we have but one life
to live.

FYI Â– There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew very little about this film before I went to see it - I think
the trailer was the sum total of what I had heard. Now, I know very
little about Jane Austen or her life so am considering Becoming Jane
simply as a film loosely based on/inspired by her life.

The film tells the story of a young woman, Jane, who refuses to marry
purely for money and embarks on writing to support herself rather than
relying on a husband.

The story is well told, with excellent performances all round
(especially Anne Hathaway and the always brilliant James Cromwell). The
pace is maybe a little slow at times and Jane herself can be rather
annoying and contradictory but that simply shows the flaws of human
nature rather than being a criticism of the film per se.

Visually the film was stunning. Brilliant scenery, excellent costumes.
All used to great effect to enhance the film without ever becoming
overpowering or distracting from the story.

Overall, this was an enjoyable film, if not up there with Pride and
Prejudice or Sense and Sensibility in my opinion. Well worth a watch
(unless you are going to be annoyed by every little inaccuracy) but
probably not worth adding to the DVD collection.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all truths to be universally acknowledged, I am, admittedly and with
all possible pride, a nerd of the Jane Austen variety. Lovingly I have
scanned the pages of each novel, appreciating the irony and humor.
Adamantly I have viewed every film adaptation (that I am aware of),
from Lee's Sense and Sensibility to Chadha's Bride and Prejudice, and,
little by little, screenwriter's have slowly hacked away at her geniusÂ…
sometimes successfully. I have borne scenes of Hugh Grant play sword
fighting, of Keira Knightly stroking Matthew Macfadyen's calf, and of
Colin Firth half nude admirably well (perhaps the latter more well than
others), but occasionally a writer crosses that very fine line between
revering the most beloved authoress and destroying all that which she
created.

I do not pretend to be an Austen purist by any means; I understand that
adaptations of her novels can't all be five hours long and follow her
dialogue word for word. We, the Austen lovers of the world, must
surrender that movies are not books, and cannot, therefore, be
identical to them. Emma Thompson, for example, made countless changes
in writing her version of Sense and Sensibility, yet the alterations
which she made were necessary. To me, it would be just as much a
disservice to Jane Austen to follow one of her novels word for word in
the screenplay and produce a dull piece of cinema than it would be to
add a sex scene to Persuasion. What is important, in my opinion, is
that the finished film retain the spirit of the novel, the humor, the
vivacity, all that which makes her works as timeless as they are. This
noted, I must express my disappointment, perhaps even disgust, in
Becoming Jane, or as I have not-so-affectionately nicknamed it,
Kidnapping, Raping and Murdering Jane, which is neither accurate nor
entertaining.

With Shakespeare in Love and Finding Neverland as models of success,
Hollywood has pumped out disappointing flicks like Miss Potter, and now
Becoming Jane, expecting viewers to lap it up, but what the first two
are that the latter two are not is clever. They intermingle inspiration
with biography, presenting the plot of the writer's lives almost as an
ode to their work. Becoming Jane occasionally alluded to Pride and
Prejudice, the most famous of Austen's six completed novels, but when
it did so the allusions were weak and clearly forced. It was as though
the screenwriters (Kevin Hood and Sarah Williams) were only familiar
with Pride and Prejudice, ignoring her other five masterpieces. What is
must frustrating about this is that it would have been so simple to
allude to the other works. Have Cassandra (Jane's older sister)
encourage Jane to be more sensible with regards to her romance, and
voilÃ ! Sense and Sensibility! Throw in a young character that
introduces Jane to bachelors in hopes of making a match, and you've got
Emma! But no, all that Kevin Hood and Sarah Williams could think to do
was make Tom Lefroy, Jane's love interest, seemingly arrogant, but
ultimately lovable.

Similarly, the film spends so much time expressing the tragedy of Jane
Austen's situation that one forgets that Anne Hathaway is meant to be
the clever, witty woman that has hypnotized so many modern readers. I
do not mean to scorn the movie's somewhat unhappy ending, so unlike
those in Austen novels, but the way in which it ignores her character.
Finding Neverland, for example, expresses the sadness of J. M. Barry's
life, yet at the same time presents the story in such a way that the
viewer feels as though they are watching something as magical as Peter
Pan. Though Becoming Jane is certainly inaccurate, even inaccuracies
would be tolerable if they were done in the name of preserving the
spirit of Jane Austen's works. Instead, we the viewer are presented
with a poor composition of infrequent wit and mildly appealing romance,
hardly reminiscent of any of Austen's books.

Apart from the abominable screenplay, the direction was mediocre and
predictable at best. Julian Jarrold does produce a pretty shot here and
there, but seems to have just discovered how to shoot an aerial view,
and so puts them in practically every other scene.

In spite of this negativity, I must admit that some of the acting was
unexpectedly good. Anne Hathaway as Jane has a fine British accent and
acts much better than I would have predicted (this is, after all, the
first movie I've ever seen her in that she doesn't start out a homely
geek and end up a fashion-forward bombshell). It is James McAvoy as Tom
Lefroy, however, that puts in the show stealing performance. Maggie
Smith is, as usual, good, as are Julie Walters and James Cromwell, even
if those blasphemists Hood and Williams chose to throw in a scene of a,
well, questionable, nature between them.

Even with decent acting and direction, it is hard to produce a good
movie based on a monstrous screenplay. The effect, all in all, is
extremely disappointing. I would not recommend this movie to anyone who
truly appreciates Jane AustenÂ… or good cinema.
