
Reasons to see WAR 

WAR kicks ass, and you should see it a lot of times, for these reasons: 

- Jason Statham yelling at people, and then kicking ass. In other
words, being himself. 

- Jet Li killing a guy by kicking him in the face....and that's not his
best kill. 

- Random girls getting nude for no reason. 

- Ninjas. Just when you think this movie couldn't rock any harder, they
put Ninjas in the movie. 

- A twist ending that would make M. Night Shawhocares *beep* himself. 

- A car chase every 10 minutes. There's even one with motorcycles. 

- Violence. Lots of it. Guns, blades, blood, kungfu, decapitations, the
bases are covered. 

-Jet Li and Jason Statham fighting each other. It's as epic as you
might think. 

So, in conclusion, if you, 1. Like things that are awesome. 2. Have a
pair of testicles. 3. Need to see a movie that rocks for a change. 4.
Are a human being. 

...than WAR is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a man's film. They really should be selling brats and beer in
the theaters for attendees. Anyone going to a film with jet Li or Jason
Statham should know what to expect. Going to a film with the two of
them and you know there is going to be blood, violence, killing,
action, noise, and an eventual winner. If this is not your cup of tea,
go see The Nanny Diaries and leave this to the fan boys.

This is not their first film together. They both appeared in The One
six years ago. This time they are the leads and on opposing sides -
Statham an FBI agent and Li a contract killer. The action takes place
in the middle of a Yakuza war in San Francisco.

Fans of Jet Li will not be disappointed. he still has all the moves
even if he is 47; however, he does rely more on swords and guns, and
other weapons in this film. Statham is Li's equal and gives as good as
he gets. The story has an interesting twist which i will not give a
clue on as it is a major plot point.

Interesting entertainment by girls in cages at the Yakuza club. I
thought that went out in the 60s, but it was a nice diversion.

This film is red meat. It has no pretensions of quality and dialog is
minimal, which goes along with the story. If you are a fan, you will be
entertained. If you are not, why are you there?
<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of postings about this being a "guy" movie, or needing
a "pair of testicles" to enjoy it. Let me tell you about this film from
a woman's point of view. I loved it! It rocked. I am older than the
usual crowd for this film, at 35. I went on a Friday night, at the
10:20 show, and the theater was dead as can be! I was thrilled! I had a
great view of some amazing car chases, great motorcycle stunts, and hot
guys fighting - what could be better? The acting was good, for this
genre, but if you are looking for Oscar nods, look elsewhere. If you
like a good kick butt film - this one is for you - no matter what is
between your legs. There was a lot of T&A, but that is par for the
course for this type. In fact, my date thought it was too complicated
for him....Seriously - if you like action and real stunts - not the CG
stuff, this one's for you.
<|_=00=_|>
"War" is a serious, sophisticated, powerful action-thriller with a
decent plot and good performances, especially by Jet Li. The sound
effects, music, and action work together to rip the tension down off
the screen. This is wonderful example of no-nonsense, make do without
the stupid jokes and rapport and focus on the methodical psyche on both
on the part of the characters on the screen and the audience.
Unfortunately, the accumulation of weak spots and a rather abrupt and
discordant ending almost ruin this movie. There is one scene where Jet
Li's actions as a master assassin is sorely tests credibility by how
easily he is discovered and almost caught and there is a another scene
where Jet Li's facial expression is caught revealing something other
than the stoic, stern look in the most obvious scene as if to say let's
try to show the audience that he's really OK. Chang's wife, the Chinese
Triad, in the scene which she has an opportunity to speak to Jet Li
alone seems incredibly amateurish, unpolished as a performance, almost
droning artificial from the rest of the movie. While there is great
action and fighting in this movie, there is one fight scene where it
becomes so furious, even in the beginning, that it's impossible to
follow what is happening to whom whereby the story gets jumbled and
collapses partially - becoming fighting for fighting sake whereas a
great director would have been able to save the plot outline even in
this complicated and physically well-executed stretch of the movie.
Jason Statham's seems to have martial arts skills above his job
classification which make it sometimes a bit incredible, but still
enjoyable. By the time the twist comes along, it's actually quite a
nice one, but not executed with the greatest of credibility, it just
doesn't seem plausible that it could have happened the way it did.
Finally, the ending just isn't as well done as the rest of the movie,
it just seems to lose power somewhat and end abruptly without a sense
of cinematic satisfaction. These critical comments do not however
sufficiently take away from the movie to transform it into a bad or
even mediocre movie. This is overall a good, compelling, and rather
complicatedly sublime movie. This movie is rich with action, sound with
its characters that sometimes plays out as a psychological thriller and
Shakespearean caliber. It could have, however, been a really great
movie.

As an update to my first review one day short eight years ago and after
seeing this movie twice in two days, I have come away with a quite
different opinion of this movie. The originally perceived weaknesses of
this movie appear in fact to be more based on my impulsive
misperceptions and inattention on my part the first go around. Daniel
Craig in Casino Royale (2006) and even Matt Damon in The Bourne
Identity (2002) made the swift and calculated reflexive escape routine
popularized and believable on screen, so to Jet Li as Rogue offers
similar moves. In some ways, Jet Li even excels at the shorter and thus
more believable fighting/chase scenes than either of the other two spy
movies. Rogue is a much more complex, layered character and instead of
a simple black and white, two-dimensional character Jet Li portrays a
more human yet controlled and proficient murder machine instead of my
initial "amateurish" description. Compared to the contemporary excess
of martial art fighting scenes, War comparatively uses less explicit,
shorter and less extraordinary, but nevertheless relative realistic
martial art moves making War come across with more emotive and cerebral
impact than most spy/assassin movies. Finally, the climatic ending
diverts away from the typical, traditional ending and using an amazing
twist, offers a quite satisfying and rather unique conclusion to this
movie. Jason Statham is well cast in a difficult role, making the
audience really appreciate the movie. This movie stands out because of
its stellar casting against type in a way that become the underlying
nature of the film. The only problem, if it is one, is the omission of
a gritty, raw texture that Casino Royale projected off the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
If you walk into a movie theater showing "War" and expect to be dazzled
by some thought-provoking paragon of acting destined to change the way
the world thinks about film and culture, you're either an idiot or an
idealist. It's called "War" because that's what it is, a bullet
festival with some sideshow martial arts.

"War" was designed only to be a brutal, dazzling death picture, and it
delivers handsomely. There's scarcely 10 minutes at a stretch that
lacks any appreciable action sequences, and the end result leaves more
dead Asians than WWII. There are some truly insane displays of gunplay
and a handful of inventive deaths (my favorites include a hubcap to the
skull). Jason Statham delivers a pretty good performance, considering
that this is really designed for pure blood-and-guts glory, and Jet Li
is as impressive now as he was in "Romeo Must Die" and "Kiss of the
Dragon" (thank GOD he hasn't retired). The plot's also not as
simplistic as it needs to be, and it includes several plot twists (yet
it never quite seems too convoluted, thankfully).

If you want to see War, be ready for it. Know that you'll go in looking
for a mountain of bodies, and you'll get precisely what you ask for. My
only real complaint is the relatively abrupt ending-- after the many
and close-together action sequences, it downshifts pretty quickly, and
leaves you wishing there was still a half hour left.
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Statham is the new electrifying action star. Statham is an
amazing athlete and accomplished martial artist. However, Jet Li is
still the screen's most explosive martial arts star. Be reassured that
Li has not yet retired from doing action movies. Old school Li looks
lean, calm, and stylish in his black Armani suits, and proves deadly
with and without guns. Li is such a dichotomy. On the surface he is
clean cut and mild mannered; but can unleash violence with such power
and grace at any moment. Director Philip Atwell's "War" takes a while
to get its bearing, but once he does so he orchestrates an amazing
action movie of blood and vengeance. He along with writers Lee Anthony
Smith and Gregory J. Bradley culminates with anticipated payoff:
Statham and Li facing off. They also insert a shocking twist, which
makes more sense in retrospect. The martial arts as choreographed by
Corey Yuen ("Transporter" movies) are exquisite, and acknowledge for
its variety. The Japanese katana training between Shiro (Ryo Ishibashi)
and Kane Kosugi is classic. The kung fu sequences with Jet Li are crisp
and deadly. Jason Statham uses speed and power in dispatching Chinese
Triad assassins. There is an amazing sword fight scene with the Wu-shu
style against the classical Japanese style. Through Atwell's lens, one
has to admire the mastery and physical prowess. "War" is surprising.

Jason Statham plays FBI Agent Jack Crawford, who leads a task force
against both the Chinese Triad led by Chang (cool John Lone) and the
Yakuza led by Shiro (bold Ryo Ishibashi). Crawford's partner Tom Lone
(Terry Chen) and his family are brutally murdered by the assassin known
as Rogue. Crawford's life turns a shambleshis wife Jenny (Andrea Roth)
and his son leave him during a divorce. Three years later Crawford
investigates a horrific hit at a Yakuza club in San Francisco. A
signature discovered at the crime scene leads Crawford to believe that
Rogue (Li) is back. Consequently, Crawford (Statham) becomes consumed
by vengeance. Jet Li plays Victor Shaw a deadly hit man playing both
the Yakuza and Triads. Shaw apparently is the mysterious Rogue.
However, as played by Li, Shaw though a stone cold killer without equal
operates by a code of honor. He too seems on a mission of vengeance.
Shaw is in the middle of an all out war between the Yakuza and the
Triads. Nothing good can come of that. There is an interesting subplot
involving priceless stolen Chinese artifacts, and the command of Yakuza
operations in the States by Shiro's daughter Kira (deadly Devon Aoki).
The appeal of "War" remains its singular focus: everything culminates
in Crawford's mission of vengeance to kill Rogue. Writers Smith and
Bradley effectively build the tension toward the finale, and final plot
twist.

Atwell inspires strong performances from Jason Statham and Jet Li.
Statham has a gruff charisma as Crawford. Also he demonstrates
unexpected range in the character's complexity. Statham has a powerful
physical presence and grace. Li is very good as Rogue. He plays to his
strength which is expressing his anger and angst through his eyes and
concise exchanges. He maintains a placid visage that disguises his
sheer will and power. As Rogue it becomes crystal clear that one does
not mess with him, less forfeit one's life. Even with some awkward
dialog exchanges, Li is compelling and powerful. John Lone has a
measured darkness as Chang, always under control. He is good. Ryo
Ishibashi is great as the larger than life Shiro, providing is a
captivating and powerful rival for both Li and Statham.

"War" is a solid action movie with great performances from Jason
Statham and Jet Li. Statham and Li are at the top of their games. The
action is very cool. The martial arts fights are among the best out
there. Atwell's storytelling is engaging and intense, and delivers on
all the hype.
<|_=00=_|>
The Jet Li & Jason Statham urban crime thriller "War" qualifies as one
of their worst. Anybody that saw an earlier Jet Li actioneerthe
futuristic science fiction epic "The One" (2001)--knows "War"
represents the second time that these two action heroes have shared the
screen. In "The One," Statham was confined to a secondary role. In
"War," however, Statham shares top billing with 44-year old Jet Li, but
the two are never on friendly terms. Instead, Statham wants to
terminate Li with extreme prejudice while Li sets out to decimate the
entire Japanese Yakuza as well the Chinese Triads in San Francisco.
Unfortunately, this one-versus-the-other opus never generates enough
heat between its trim but grim co-stars. Surprisingly, they aren't
allowed to display their marital arts artistry until the end of the
movie and the martial arts action scene itself is incredibly
lackluster. Legendary marital arts choreographer Corey Yuen of "The
Matrix" trilogy doesn't create any cool looking fights or any new gags
that have made him one of the top stunt stagers in either Hollywood or
Hong Kong. Most of the time in "War," Jet Li relies on an automatic
pistol to gun down the opposition without an expression. Sometimes, he
wields a mean razor-edged sword and slices off a head, but you rarely
see him do anything equivalent to "Kiss of the Dragon," "Cradle 2 the
Grave," or "The One." Similarly, Jason Stathambest known for his
"Transporter" movies and "Crank"doesn't rip, tear, or shed his apparel
during the fights. Basically, if you march off to "War" thinking it is
going to be the eighth wonder of the world where martial artistry is
concerned, you are drastically deluding yourself and the end result of
freshman director Philip G. Atwell's realistic but slam-bang crime
melodrama will disappoint you. Nevertheless, Atwell delivers lots of
savage action scenes with a high body count, but "War" never
degenerates into a big, dumb action thriller with clever lines or
flamboyant fighting. 

Essentially, first-time scribes Lee Anthony Smith and Gregory J.
Bradley have taken the classic Japanese sword-fighting saga "Yojimbo"
(1961) with Toshiro Mufine {later remade as the Spaghetti western "A
Fistful of Dollars" (1964) and even later as 1930s crime opus "Last Man
Standing" (1996)in which the lone hero enters a town and wipes out two
bloodthirsty crime families by swearing allegiance to each but
betraying both until nobody is left alive. The biggest difference is
that Smith & Bradley have grafted onto this simple but solid formula
another time-honored formula about the two cops that have been partners
until one dies at the hands of the mob and the other sets out to wreck
vengeance on the evildoers that killed his friend. As "War" opens,
we're introduced to two FBI agents in San Francisco. Tom Lone (Terry
Chen of "I, Robot") and John Crawford (Jason Statham), are best buds
that keep their eyes on the Japanese Yakuza gangsters and the deadly
Chinese Triad mob. They are after a notorious assassin named Rogue that
nobody can identify because he has plastic surgery every six months and
then kills the surgeon to preserve his anonymity. Rogue has a nasty way
of going his own way, but his trademarklike The Lone Ranger's silver
bulletsis his titanium shell casings that he leaves behind at the
scene of his crimes. Our heroes think that they have killed Rogue
during the opening shoot-out, but he survives and wipes out Tom Lone
and his wife Diane (Steph Song of "The Long Lunch") and their young
daughter Amy (newcomer Annika Foo) at their cabin and torches the
place. When Crawford hears about the massacre, the bodies have been
burned beyond recognition, but he finds a shell casing at the scene
that matches those that Rogue uses. Crawford swears vengeance and
dedicates himself to killing Rogue. In the meantime, his obsession with
Rogue undermines his marriage, and his wife Jenny (Andrea Roth of
"Highwayman") divorces him, takes custody of their son Daniel (Nicholas
Elia of "White Noise"), and moves out. Three years elapse with no sign
of Rogue, and Crawford retrieves a titanium shell casing from the scene
of a particularly violent crime scene. When we see Rogue this time, he
isn't wearing a Phantom of the Opera mask. In fact, this is the first
time that we see Jet Li and he is playing Rogue. He enters a Yakuza
nightclub and slashes the throats of the thugs guarding the entrance to
the boss's gambling den. The Yakuza boss sends his two Dobermans
charging after Rogue. We hear one yelp in pain and the second comes
back with an explosives device attached to its collar and blows up its
owner. Suddenly, Yakuza killers as well as Triad gunmen start dropping
like ten-pins and Rogue is the wrecking ball behind their murders. 

Writers Smith & Bradley let this nonsense churn on for about an hour
and a quarter and then they pull the biggest switcheroo in screen
history that contradicts everything in my plot synopsis. Mind you, they
drops hints along the way that something isn't right, but you'd have to
have read the script to know how incredibly characters change in the
last quarter hour. Freshman director Philip G. Atwell makes his
directorial debut with "War," and he does just about everything to
salvage this drivel. First, he pares down the action to essentials so
the whole thing is over with in 103 minutes. Second, he stages the
action as if he were shooting a Miami Vice episode. Everybody drives a
cool car. Rogue tools around in a sleek, shiny Spyker C8 Spyder, a
handmade all-aluminum convertible equipped with electrically operated
single-hinge tilted doors, while Crawford steers a vintage Chevrolet
Chevelle SS. 

"War" barely makes the grade as a crime melodrama.
<|_=00=_|>
In San Francisco, after the execution of his partner Tom Wynne and his
family, the FBI agent Jack Crawford (Jason Statham) becomes obsessed to
catch the hit man Rogue (Jet Li). Three years later, Rogue reappears
with an unknown face in the middle of a war between Japanese mafias
Triad and Yakuza. Crawford chases the killer while the mobsters kill
each other.

Revenge and Yakuza are usually great themes for action movies. In spite
of having excellent cast and budget, "Rogue Assassin" unfortunately
does not work due to the weak screenplay that uses a predictable
collection of clichés with an absolutely unbelievable twist. When Rogue
discloses his identity to Crawford, I was irritated and disappointed
with the lack of coherence of the character of the FBI agent. My vote
is five.

Title (Brazil): "Rogue O Assassino" ("Rogue The Assassin")
<|_=00=_|>
Easily Jet Li's worst westernized movie. I usually don't comment or
review movies.. i just rate them but after watching this i have to say
something, i feel i need to.

A lot of people say that this is an action movie and should be judged
on the mind-blowing action and just to enjoy the ride.. I saw no mind
blowing action, most of the movie was plot and if i was to ignore all
of that i would be left with only a few minutes of horrible action.

The action has little to no martial arts so Jet Li didn't need to be in
the movie at all. The stunts were all tame and the editing cut every
half-second in the action scenes so that it could make any actor seem
like they could empty a room full of thugs.

Jet Li started out great in America with movies such as Kiss of the
Dragon and Romeo Must Die. Statham and Li have both worked together in
The One which i thought to be a brilliant movie where the plot and the
action worked perfectly together.. This movie is the evil twin of The
One, the actors stay the same but everything else is screwed up.

Kiss of the Dragon was a movie that had the least amount of plot needed
to drive all of the fantastic action scenes. This movie almost wanted
the viewer to be taken into its plot and twists. You don't seem to care
about any of the characters, some lines you can predict yourself and
most of all the action was mediocre at best.

I wont even go into detail about how horrible the ending is, but it
left me and my friends in the cinema looking at each other thinking "is
that it?"

Jet Li can do better
<|_=00=_|>
Hey, if you're interested in seeing a mostly-violent flick with a big
body count, gratuitous in nature half the time, and a lot of hostility,
anger, betrayal, a big twist near the end and tons of testosterone,
then this movie is for you. If you want a quiet, low-key thriller, skip
this one: this is somewhat brainless blood-and-guts, slice 'n dice. In
other words: know what you're going to get here.

We get many, many gunshots to head., long range to up-close-and
personal, swords into mouths and through back of head and through just
about any other body part, a car chase, motorcycle chases, a few bare
breasts and a bunch of attention-grabbing scenes of brutality, which
definitely outnumber the quieter scenes.

Jason Statham seems to be the new macho man of the day, playing this
kind of role in numerous films the past few years. Jet Li.....well, you
know him. Statham versus Li? Yes, but not really. The two are only in
the same scene twice, once for a couple of minutes of Jason giving
threats and Jet standing there passively, and then in the finale fight
scene. The latter, unlike most of these action films of today, is not
overdone and go on and on. It's just about the right length.

The best part of this ultra-violent movie dealing with rival Asian
gangs and FBI agent (s) in the middle in the BIG twist near the end of
the film. At least it makes this a little more than a brainless action
movie. I think it's kind of cool, although don't try to analyze it for
credibility.

While a number of reviewers here weren't happy that the two big stars
weren't on the screen at the same time for long, my choice for
under-played actor is Luis Guzman, who is always very interesting but
didn't have many lines here. I'd like to have seen his part a lot
bigger, and I would have liked to see Statham tone it tone and sound a
little more intelligent in his role. In real life, FBI agents have a
lot more class.

Having said that, I still enjoyed the film because I knew in advance
what it was, that it wasn't Li's best effort nor Statham's but it
sufficed for a 100-minute diversion. I was looking for action...and I
got it! I also recommend this for those who have HDTV and a Blu-Ray
disc player. This is a very slick-looking film on Blu-Ray.

Just don't bring the kiddies or grandma into the living room to watch
this!
