
Caught a screening of this last night in Berlin. Cinema was completely
packed, not a spare seat in the house, and the crowd really seemed to
enjoy it. I thought the film was great, really cool genre pic that
comes across as a nice mixture of Predator/Braveheart/Beowulf, all the
while managing to feel quite original on its own. Nice cast, Nice
Script, and everything is handled a hell of a lot more intelligently
than what you'd expect from a movie which is essentially 'Giant Alien
Vs Vikings'. Why this is only getting such a limited release is beyond
me, I think it could actually do quite well if given the chance.
Basically anyone who enjoys Sci-Fi Action/Adventure done well should be
looking forward to checking this one out when and if they get the
chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Like a previous reviewer I don't know why this had a limited release.
It is MUCH more value for ticket money than a number of other recent
offerings and its faults are minor compared to the good qualities.

The story is basically a sci-fi plot but since the lead character's
space ship crashes in the Iron Age, among Vikings, you can understand
that most of the movie takes place with Viking themes and scenery.

The basic plot is quite sound and for the first 40 minutes the movie is
VERY gripping. It tends to go a little flat at the end of the middle
act and the start of the third act but effects, gore and very tense
action compensate for those not too engrossed in the intricacies of the
story. A pity about that because it looked like the story had more to
offer and was chopped up somewhat to fit in a bunch of set pieces. I
realize this is now making the movie sound a little lame: it isn't Lord
of the Rings, but it is definitely worth the price of the ticket. See
it expecting to be entertained for about 95% of the time and you wont
be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very skeptical before watching this film. Even if it got John
Hurt and Ron Perlman in it, I just couldn't believe the SciFi/Norse
legend combination would work. My instinct told me that this was going
to be another of those horrible B-movies with a stupid story,
sub-average effects and mediocre acting at best. I was, however,
pleasantly surprised. Not that it is a masterpiece. The background
story could have been a tad bit more elaborate, the plot more original
and the final outcome a little bit less predictable, but all in all one
has to acknowledge the decent effort to make this movie convincing and
suspenseful. The end result is a solid piece of entertainment, with
ample effects, directing I'd call 'by the book', workmanlike acting and
a few kicks and thrills along the way. So if you happen to like action
movies and don't ask for too much depth in the story, this will provide
you with a 120 minutes amusement worth the time.
<|_=00=_|>
I managed to see this in Spain over Christmas. It's a really fun movie
and gave me just what I was looking for. Great SF, plenty of action and
a bit of drama in the mix as well. The sets, music and cinematography
were good too. James Caviezel was excellent as usual as was Sophia
Myles - to think of it, there wasn't a bum note in the cast and the
script was fine. The battle scenes were very well done and the monster
was as good as anything else i've seen on the big screen. Aliens,
Vikings and Spacemen..come on! It's one of those movies I would buy on
DVD and i've had a look on the official site etc..The positive feedback
i've seen lately seems to have had an impact because the straight to
DVD option has been shelved and the UK distributor has changed the
release date from Feb to the Easter break. With any luck they will beef
up the marketing and give this canny film the boost it deserves. If you
like 13th Warrior or AVP type movies then this'll do for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I stumbled upon this move by accident, but being a sci-fi and fantasy
nerd, I watched it, despite the fact that sci-fi movies nowadays tend
to be rather poor.

The story begins with Kainan (James Caviezel) crash landing his
spaceship into a lake, in the middle of Viking-land, in 709 AD. With
his co-pilot dead, and his ship in ruins, sunken to the bottom of the
lake, he uses his only working piece of technology to teach himself the
norsk language. (I laughed my head off, when the first word he utters
in Earth language is the "F" word :D) Wandering around in a forest, he
is found by Wulfric (Jack Huston) and brought back to his village. They
think Kainen is responsible for brutally ransacking a nearby village,
and when Kainen tells them he is hunting for a "dragon", he is labeled
as a liar and enemy. When in fact, the "dragon" he is referring to, is
a monster from another planet, now hunting the viking populace and
fauna of the land. Soon, when the villagers start vanishing and turning
up as mutilated corpses, the vikings realize that Kainen might be
telling the truth after all...

I gotta say, combining space marines and alien monsters with a fantasy
Viking setting intrigued me to no end. Outlander is the living proof,
that such a combination can result in a very good and entertaining 115
minutes. Although the story is a little shallow, lacking in huge
plot-twists and deep character development, but it is enough to keep
the attention between the awesomely gory fight scenes.

The acting is good enough, with the Christian Bale look-alike Caviezel,
and the great but short performance of Ron Perlman, it manages to be
captivating. We see far more swordplay than pulse rifle shoot-outs, so
the sci-fi part of the film is largely suppressed to make way for the
epic battle between the vikings and the moorvens, but that's just how
it must be in this movie. The fight scenes are nicely choreographed and
acted, the special effects are more than awesome, and the whole is
movie is just great.

I'd like to point out, that the Moorven is most astonishing space
monster I've ever seen. With the clever colored pulsing and the well
thought-out anatomy of the beast, it manages to be best so far.

It's not the best movie I've seen, but it's still great, and every
sci-fi and fantasy fan should go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Outlander" is a great surprise by director Howard McCain - honestly
never heard of him before, but I'll be keeping an eye on his work from
now on! The movie opens with a spaceship crashing down on Earth, Norway
700 AD. The only surviour from the crew, Kainan (James Caviezel), is
soon captured by vikings, who blame him for the slaughter in a nearby
village. The outworlder claims he is not responsible and he has come to
these lands hunting for dragons. The vikings don't trust a word...
until their own village is attacked by a mysterious creature -
something that Kainan brought with him from outer space...

Proving himself in battle Kainan gains the trust of the vikings and
gets himself some trusty friends... and some interest from the King's
daughter Freya (Sophia Myles). Together they have to face the alien
beast Moorwen and find a way to destroy it. But Kainen is hunted not
only by a monster, but by guilt and memories as well. He couldn't
protect his beloved wife and son from the very same creature.

The story is simple and yet gripping. The idea that a pack of vikings
and a spaceman battle an alien beast was exciting enough to make me
interested and willing to see the movie. I approached it with no great
expectations and I found myself pleasantly surprised! The movie is in
fact very entertaining and involving. Jim Caviezel is an excellent
choice for a tragic hero haunted by his past - a true Beowulf from
outer space. The rest of the cast does a good job as well. I loved
Sophia Myles in "Tristan & Isolde" and I was pleased to watch her
again, this time as a bold Viking princess. In the supporting cast we
have John Hurt and Ron Perlman (they've collaborated before on the
Hellboy movies).

The Moorwen is designed by Patrick Tatopolous and if you're familiar
with his work you can sense his style in it. I'd say there is some
Godzilla-nuance to the Moorwen, but the luminous abilities of the
creature were something new and exciting.

The production design, the sets and the costumes were also very good,
but what really impressed me were the flashback sequences of Kainan's
life before falling down to Earth. The Moorwen planet war scene is
truly great and the only thing I regret is that they were not longer -
I can enjoy out-of-this-world landscapes anytime! The CGI was
impressive. I would play the movie again just to watch them once more.

The movie could use some faster pace at times and I find it slightly
longer than it should have been, but by no means boring or trying.
"Outlander" delivers an excellent sci-fi action-adventure - something
we don't see too often these days!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film today with fingers crossed that it would add up to
a decent enough film. However this film ended up exceeding those
expectations, with a pretty good plot, a cast which was decent enough
(with a few minor blips that I'm willing to overlook) and action
sequences that are quite creative and thrilling to watch. At times
parts of this film reminded me of The 13th Warrior, with a little
Beowulf sprinkled on top. You certainly won't get bored watching this
film. I'm surprised that this film did not get a little more attention,
as it deserves it, but there you go. If you like to see aliens get
hacked away by men in beards, this is the film for you!
<|_=00=_|>
In its genre: fantasy and sci-fi this is a guaranteed winner. Yes, it
IS Alien vs. Highlander... and if you don't think that sounds awesome,
well then you're missing out.

What lifts this though is a great cast, tight filming, good production,
and, above all, some heart and soul that's been missing.

Honestly this is straight-out entertainment - the Alien is seriously
bad, and the Nordic stuff is just how you'd want it to be. Just violent
enough, with some horror, but nothing OTT it is very, very good at
achieving its objectives.

All in all a great film and a definite Sci-Fi / Fantasy con favorite in
the making...
<|_=00=_|>
Outlandish. Howard McCain's Outlander may be the best B movie you never
saw. This release dumped unceremoniously into theaters in the early
year scrap heap is certainly a movie that is fully aware of its
preposterous nature and approaches it with a straight face, a talented
cast and premier production values that all work oddly well to produce
an entertaining if far from perfect Sci-fi cult classic.

Originally slated for a normal wide release, a series of setbacks
plagued production to an extent where it was deemed no longer feasible
for such distribution. Why is this important you may ask? Well, thanks
to the original and best laid plans producers threw a whopping $50
million into the film which provides us with some damn good effects for
a film you would all but assume to be a low budget, straight to DVD
release.

The plot is as tantalizing as they come; an alien, Kainan played by
James Caviezel crash lands in ancient Nordish territory in the age of
the Vikings. But along with his technology he brings a foreign
parasite, a deadly creature known as the Moorwen. Caught in the middle
of two warring Viking clans headed by Rogthgar (John Hurt) on one side
and Gunnar (Ron Peralman) on the other, the primitive tribes must ban
together to defeat their new common foe. oh yeah, it is in fact that
awesome. The 'modern' story is framed by an interesting if slightly
preachy back-story of past betrayal and genocide throughout the history
of Kainnan's homeland.

After all this financial mumbo-jumbo is put to the side, what we are
left with is a deliciously acted, well made period/sci-fi/creature
feature/action film that only works at all due to all originality and
the bizarreness of the plot. A few elements keep Outlander from being a
cult-masterpiece however; it is too long, there are too many false
climaxes and the goofy plot only just holds up. That being said the
good news is that this film will make a quick trip to your local movie
store bargain bin which means that you can score it for about the cost
of a rental. Outlander is worth a look and even if you don't like it,
you can't deny how perfectly it defines the so-bad-it's-good adage.

Read all my reviews at: http://www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
In 709 DC, in the Iron Age, a spacecraft crashes in Norway in the
Viking kingdom of Herot, and the pilot Kainan (James Caviezel)
survives. He turns the beacon on; learns the language and culture of
the planet using a machine; and finds that the predator called Moorwen
that he was transporting had escaped. While chasing the alien monster,
he finds a village completely destroyed and he is arrested by the
warrior Wulfric (Jack Huston) that believed he killed the locals and is
brought to Herot as prisoner. But sooner he proves his innocence and
courage to King Rothgar (John Hurt) and his daughter Freya (Sophia
Myles) falls in love for him. Kainan and Wulfric become friends and
together they chase the Moorwen.

"Outlander" is a wonderful adventure and a great surprise for me
indeed. The cast is excellent, leaded by James Caviezel; the lovely
Sophia Myles, from "Tristan + Isolde" and "Hallam Foe"; the veteran
John Hurt; the always efficient Ron Perlman; and the unknown nephew of
Anjelica Huston Jack Huston. The engaging story has elements of
"Starman", "Beowulf" and "Predator", and is developed in a perfect
pace. The special effects are decent and this movie is a great
entertainment. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Outlander  Guerreiro Vs Predador" ("Outlander 
Warrior Vs Predator")
