
The good: Strong start to the movie, the plot hooks you in, excellent
sound, confronting disaster scenes, haunting images, Rose Byrne, at
times quite freaky, The Bad: Special effects looked like they were from
a video game, ripped off basically every science fiction movie ever
made, poor acting from Nic Cage, very predictable.

The Ugly: Last third of movie was shamefully ridiculous.

Summary: If you are a science fiction fan, you will probably not be
able to resist seeing this movie. Be warned, you will think you are
seeing the sci-fi great that you have been waiting for but mid way the
film gets lost. You may very well groan out loud at the ending. This
had the makings of a great movie but unfortunately it couldn't come up
with the goods.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe people are calling this the "best SF movie of the
year", unless there aren't any other SF movies this year. Ebert
obviously needs to adjust his meds if he gave this four stars.

Plot holes? Plot holes? The rocks... do they mean *anything*? How come
the aliens can't find *some* way to communicate with people? How do
they expect to leave their numeric clue hidden for 50 years and have
just the right person run across them? Why does the son get all bent
about being treated as a child... for 30 seconds? My God -- it's full
of holes! This abomination makes Swiss cheese look like battleship
armor.

"Thought-provoking" only in the sense that if you start thinking about
it, you'll be astounded at how little sense in makes, and how much
thinking you have to do to force any of it to work.

I've been reading science fiction for 30 years. I know SF. SF is a
friend of mine. And if this is the best SF movie of the year, I'm a
monkey's uncle. And aunt. And male offspring. And second cousin once
removed.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is bad propaganda for Scientology. This is already obvious
after five minutes watching. First, evolution is called "Theory of
Randomness" and described as something sad by Nicolas Cage. Of course,
there's no mention at all of all the proofs of evolution, even when
Cage is supposed to be this serious MIT teacher. The little girl
Lucinda is born in 1952, year of Scientology creation. The time capsule
is sealed under a seven branch star, the symbol of Scientology. Then,
the story is very closed of the one in the book "Scientology, A History
of Man" written by L.Ron Hubbard, Scientology founder. The movie
described a numerological prophecy of apocalypse, something frequent in
Scientology's mythology. The more ridiculous is the final image of the
Eden Garden with Adam and Eve running to the knowledge tree! When
you're watching such a movie, remember that Quentin Hubbard, the son of
Scientology founder, was probably murdered for having told the world
that his father is a liar and and criminal. And - mainly - remember
Darwin...
<|_=00=_|>
This film started out with a real grabber. The whole time capsule thing
was working as was the predictions and it had me riveted waiting to
find out what was going to happen next.

Then everything went left and the movie bounded over the shark as Cage
begins a wild chase to tell everyone about the end of the world.

I absolutely believe this screenplay wasn't written with the ending
that was in the movie. I figure around one third of the way through
someone said, "hey this is way too M. Night Shymalan, better beef up
the special effects!" That's when the explosions started.

Then another Hollywood big-wig said, "hey, we need to add some
extraterrestrials or this will never hit" and so enter the blond guys
in the woods. These scenes look like they were re-shot after the fact.

Finally as Cage is on his knees waving to his son on the space ship, I
expected the credits to roll, but no. I feel pretty sure a focus group
was show the first cut and they said it was a downer, so...after a
rewrite and lots of money on special effects. Voila! End of the world.

Ten, after another focus group, comes the two kids in Eden ending that
looked completely out of place and I feel pretty sure was tacked on
after audience reactions ranged from"but what about the kids?" to
"that's a downer".

All in all, the whole thing went way off the rails and squandered any
viewer interest in favor of bad theology and worse writing.

If anyone can confirm my theories of rewrites and re-shoots, please let
me know. Otherwise, I have to believe the producers just got lost
somewhere along the way to what promised to be a good film.
<|_=00=_|>
It may seem improbable, but Knowing actually adds something fresh and
inspiring to the disaster genre. 

Certainly the action scenes are well staged  they are as grand and
tense as the previews would have you expect. But Knowing really stands
out from the likes of Next and various Roland Emmerich movies because
of its heart (there is a profoundly human element amongst the chaos and
destruction), and because of the surprising, riveting turns the story
takes. In no way was it a generic "save the world" flick, like I feared
going in. It is an original with a memorable ending that should not be
spoiled, but it will almost definitely have people talking.

In my mind, director Alex Proyas deserves a lot of the credit for the
fact that the film is brave, and does not try to replicate a typical
Hollywood blueprint. In fact, he even has Nic Cage back on solid
footing, an actor I used to love but have been quite weary of lately.
But I think Proyas deserves the main kudos for turning this into
something creative and special, and I'd go as far as to say this it is
his best movie since Dark City.

There really isn't much to complain about regarding the film, but the
one exception might be the middle, where the action sags a bit. Still,
I think the captivating final third more than makes up for it.

I definitely recommend the film - you will be pleasantly surprised!
<|_=00=_|>
Nicolas Cage, I feel like an addictive gambler when it comes to this
man, because there are times where he has some really great movies(i.e.
Face/Off) then he has moments where I wonder if he was drinking when he
accepted other movies(i.e. Wicker Man). He has some really great acting
moments, but it seems like his movies lately, he just looks tired and
like he stayed up the whole night memorizing his lines not realizing he
hasn't had any sleep for 6 weeks. I don't know, I'm not quite sure why
this has a high rating right now, but we'll see in the next few weeks,
because honestly I wasn't all that thrilled with Knowing. From the
trailer this looked really exciting, but instead we got a movie that
just took itself too seriously. I thought it was mainly just poor
writing for the story and the characters.

In 1959, a competition is held amongst the students of a new elementary
school to celebrate its opening. The winning plan, from student Lucinda
Embry, is to bury a time capsule containing the students' drawings of
the future to be opened 50 years later in 2009. She is prevented from
finishing her image, which is actually a series of seemingly random
numbers, and goes missing during the ceremony. Her teacher later finds
her in a gym closet frantically scratching the remaining numbers on the
door. Fifty years later, the time capsule is opened and the pictures
are handed down to the new generation of students. Caleb, the son of
MIT professor and astrophysicist John Koestler, receives Lucinda's
envelope. While initially dismissing them as random numbers, John
accidentally discovers that the numbers have accurately predicted the
dates, death tolls, and locations of every major disaster in the last
50 years; three of the events have not yet occurred. Decoding and
discovering that one of the three may lead to the end of the world.

Is this a movie that you have to see in the theater? There is one scene
that only the big screen can do justice and that was the airplane crash
scene, even though it was unrealistic it was great to watch. I just
love how Nicolas Cage reacts to it, he goes to "save" the people who
are burning and one person passes him screaming in flames and Nic just
says "hey!", what exactly was he planning on saying to him? Like "HEY!
Just to let you know, you're on fire". I thought the ending was weak
and there wasn't enough character development. The story was too
serious, while intense, the characters were not real and I felt like
the effects got too cheesy at the end. I would say if you're going to
see this in the theater, see the matinée, otherwise, just stick with
the rental.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
From the trailers of Knowing you'd be convinced that you're going to
watch a cheesy, try to save the world picture with a wound tight
Nicolas Cage at the center gritting his teeth and ducking his way to
the perfect ending. Well, you'd be partially correct. Cage is
definitely giving his wound tight hero routine that he's worked so hard
to develop over the last half dozen films. As for the cheese factor,
that's where you'll be surprised. Director Alex Proyas manages to
deliver a rather decent sci-fi flick that has plenty of suspense and
intelligence.

The plot turns around John Koestler (Nicolas Cage), an MIT astrophysics
nerd turned Indiana Jones when a time capsule is discovered at his
young son Caleb's (Chandler Canterbury) school. Inside are drawings
from students in 1959 predicting what things would be like in 2009 some
50 years later. The drawing that Caleb comes home with isn't a drawing
at all but a series of seemingly random numbers. Koestler becomes
obsessed with the numbers and their meaning or what they seem to mean.
The whole thing shakes him to his scientific core and a quest has
begun.

The film is very lucky to have director Alex Proyas from films such as
Dark City which is his true geek film and critical acclaim as well as
I, Robot and Garage Days. The visual and special effects are
outstanding. It was surprising how much suspense was in the script
(Ryan Douglas Pearson and Juliet Snowden) which gave the film a real
thriller atmosphere which continues to build in tone as the mystery is
unraveled. 

I admit I went into this film expecting a rehash of National Treasure
on a more global scale. The sci-fi aspect of the premise is very well
thought out and told. The acting by co-stars (Chandler Canterbury, Rose
Byrne and Lara Robinson) are solid performances and stand in
complementary contrast to that of the tightly wound Nicolas Cage. The
geek factor of Knowing is rather high with lots of number
configurations and what-if scenarios which is great for the sci-fi
fans. At times your brain may have to turn on in order to follow the
film, but that is what made Knowing such a pleasant surprise to me.*
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, this is a movie that I would classify as "I lost two hours of my
life for this?" It was almost as if one person wrote the beginning, one
person wrote the middle, and one person wrote the ending, and none of
it meshes together at all. This movie has horror, religious, and sci-fi
aspects that are all over the place. The first thirty minutes are okay,
but it just plummets from there. There was not really any back story
and it was kind of all over the place. The best part was when the lead
female role was killed. Her whiny butt was getting on my nerves. The
whole aliens are angels things was not put together very well at all,
and the special effects were not that great. This would have been so
much better if they had just concentrated on the story line and not
have made it so goofy.
<|_=00=_|>
If, like me, you expect films to have a cohesive plot, intelligent
writing and an imaginative ending then this is NOT the film for you.
What is the point of giving an astrophysicist a list of predictions and
telling him when the world is going to end if there's nothing he can do
about it? For the first two thirds of the film I was waiting for some
clever twist or original storyline that would bring together all the
disjointed pieces of the film but instead it ended in the most
anti-climactic and least original way - aliens! The second worst cop
out in history - the first being 'he woke up and it was all a dream'.
It's not even poignant enough to be thought provoking or depressing;
it's simply utterly pointless!
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, yes I did see this movie, and no I'm not much of a talker
when it comes to discussing and reviewing movies. Therefore, I will
keep it short and simple.

Nicholas Cage's movies have lately been a lot of action flicks that may
or may not seem like movies we've all seen before. This one, however,
brings a new fresh feeling to this genre.

I think we've all seen the whole "I see it coming" type of movie where
the main character has to prevent something from happening. This is one
of those, and yet it isn't. It doesn't bore you, it doesn't make you
feel like you've seen it before, and yet you have a comfortability with
it that intrigues you throughout.

I found myself quite entertained and the movie didn't lose my attention
or have me checking my watch. Good direction and acting. Nicholas Cage
does a good job.

I believe anyone who sees this movie will enjoy it for what it is. Go
see it, it's a fun flick!
