
Screened overnite in Australia for critics and industry.

Ten minutes into director Bill Condon's adaptation of the hit musical,
I whispered to my friend "There's no way the film can go at this pace
for two hours!" Because up to that point, we had been utterly dazzled
by breathtaking staging, impassioned performances and a display of
film-making craftsmanship in all its forms (direction, editing, design)
that had the packed audience stunned.

Well, two hours later, I'd been proved wrong. Condon has created a
vivid, emotional spectacle that will dominate the 06/07 Oscar
nominations. Dreamgirls is one of the five best movie musicals ever
made.

There is really nothing new about the storyline - smalltown singers
make it big and ride the roller-coaster of fame. But thats what works
so well for the film - the great cinematic clich√©s are embraced and
played to the hilt by a creative team, both behind and in front of the
camera, that knows what makes a great Hollywood musical.

There's not one weak link in the cast. Condon's camera is in love with
Beyonce Knowles and she handles the journey from the innocence of the
groups early years to the staggering success and fortune of the group
at its peak with surprising range. While most singer/actress attempts
are failures (Madonna, Whitney, Britney, k.d. lang), Beyonce proves to
have genuine talent.

Jamie Foxx centres and grounds the film in a less-flashy role but one
that is crucial to the films credibility.

But there are two standouts. Eddie Murphy as fading star Early has
never done better work. And Jennifer Hudson delivers an absolute
tour-de-force performance in a role that sees her dominate every scene
she is in. Her belting solo number was applauded by the audience (a
rare enough occurrence during an industry screening but a moment that
was repeated a few times thru the film). Hudson is a lock for the
supporting actress Oscar, even this far from the ceremony.

Dreamgirls is a better movie in every way than recent award winning
musicals Chicago and Moulin Rouge (both of which I am a huge fan). It
is a film that tells a classic rags-to-riches story utilising great
cinematic technique and bravado. 2006 has offered up some great
movie-going experiences for me (Thank You For Smoking, Children Of Men,
V For Vendetta, Little Miss Sunshine); for the sheer cinematic thrill
it provides, however, Dreamgirls proves to be the best two hours I've
spent in a cinema this year.
<|_=00=_|>
What a spectacular movie musical experience! This is one worth waiting
in line, if not purchasing advance tickets for. Beautifully realized by
writer-director Bill Condon, 'Dreamgirls' brings back thoughts of a few
years ago when the movie musical version of 'Chicago' knocked our socks
off, and (with the help of the gorgeous 'Moulin Rouge') helped to
revive the modern movie musical. The sets, costumes, musical numbers
all flow beautifully and make for an incredibly affecting motion
picture.

As amazing and eye-popping as all of the scene work and musical numbers
are, this is, ultimately, a movie rooted in its performances. Jamie
Foxx gives further credence to his stature as an incredibly talented
musician, and Beyonce Knowles (known for her vocal talents) still
manages to impress with her songs and her voice. Not to mention her
stunning beauty, as each costume and scene in which she appears seem to
top one another in terms of showcasing her incredible beauty. Eddie
Murphy blew me away with not only his truly heartfelt performance as
Jimmy Early, but his amazing voice and showmanship. What a talent!
Anika Noni Rose, who I fell in love with on Broadway in 'Caroline, or
Change,' gives her performance as Laurelle soul and a deep, rich vocal
styling. But let's face it..we are all going into 'Dreamgirls'
wondering if 'American Idol' contestant Jennifer Hudson can pull it
off. She has quite a bit to live up to, as Jennifer Holliday's
performance as Effie White in the original Broadway production is
legendary. Add to that the fact that this is Ms. Hudson movie debut,
she must have been feeling a huge weight on her shoulders to do the
part, as well as the show, justice. If she isn't able to do anything
less than nail the part of Effie, as well as her signature song, 'And I
am Telling You,' the whole production, no matter how great the other
aspects hold up, runs the risk of crashing loudly. The question on
everyone's mind is: Can she do it? 

Let me just say this... I have never sat in a theater watching a
musical where the audience erupted in applause like they would in a
Broadway theater after a performer's song. Everyone (and I mean
everyone!) was wildly applauding when she struck her last note in 'And
I am Telling You.' It was such an intense experience to be a part of. I
mean...as I am writing this, I am getting goose bumps. But not only is
her singing tremendously effective, but her actual performance is just
as good. She brings a vulnerability and an innocence that perhaps would
not have come through had the part been given to a more experienced
movie performer. Ms. Hudson is nothing short of breathtaking and, even
if you are not crazy about the rest of the picture (doubtful), you will
almost certainly be amazed by her talent. Just remarkable. This has to
be one of the most impressive motion picture debuts in the history of
cinema. Even during the closing "curtain call," when Jennifer Hudson's
name was shown, there was, again, wild applause. A star has been
born!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The legendary Broadway musical hit the screen, resurrecting the thrill
of the original. That, in itself, is a miracle. I suspect that the
miracle worker is Bill Condon. The story is told as if it revealed
something we've never seen before and his winning innocence triumphs.
The casting of Eddie Murphy was a stroke of genius. He unfolds a new
inedited face and I predict a new career. The predictability of the
tale becomes rewarding rather than annoying and I was surprised and
moved all the way through. Jammie Foxx's unsympathetic turn manages to
deliver a punch of humanity. Byonce Knowles, Danny Glover and the rest
of the cast are a perfect foil for Jennifer Hudson's Cinderella Story.
Bravo Mr Condon!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a trade screening of "Dreamgirls" a few days ago and from the
first seconds of the film, you can tell that you're in for the time of
your life. To put it shortly, Bill Condon (director-writer) delivers
the goods with this film. It's most definitely the first of its kind.
It moves at a rapturous pace that leaves you breathless and delivers
performances that are both subtle and fittingly over the top.

The movie explains plot holes from the Broadway musical and adds many
historical occurrences (Martin Luther King Jr., etc.) that gives the
film a much more social awareness. Most of the sung dialogue from the
musical is replaced with spoken with the exception of a few scenes. The
music itself has always been wonderful, and this able cast performs it
spectacularly.

The performances are something else. Jennifer Hudson, Eddie Murhpy, and
Anika Noni Rose will blow you away. Murphy's vocals, though not as
strong as his leading ladies, suit his character perfectly and shows a
vulnerable side to him towards the end that we never knew he had. Rose
makes the transition from a giggly little girl into a full-blossomed
woman seamlessly, and Hudson-well, let's just say that any major hype
you've heard about her does not do her performance justice. Beyonce
Knowles will catch you off guard with her beautifully subtle
performance, brilliantly channeling Diana Ross with her musical
performances. Jaime Foxx, Keith Robinson, Danny Glover, and Sharon Leal
also hand in admirable performances.

I could not recommend this film more. It gives hope AGAIN to the movie
musical that "Chicago" revived and "The Phantom of the Opera", "Rent",
and "The Producers" almost killed. I can't say whether this film will
be the next "Chicago" (I do foresee MANY Oscar noms, including Best Pic
and others), I certainly hope it will be. I dream it will be bigger. It
is definitely not the next "The Producers". I can say this though: It
is the first, and only, "Dreamgirls" that we will ever encounter.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a preview screening of Dreamgirls on Nov. 15. and have to say I
was pretty blown away by it. I can always tell when a movie really hits
me because the thought immediately runs through my head, "Wow, I can't
wait to OWN this on DVD." Needless to say, Dreamgirls is now at the top
of my "To Buy" list.

I saw the original Michael Bennett production in 1985, a few years into
its Broadway run when Jennifer Holliday was no longer in the Effie
role. But even without Holliday I found the show and its score to be
among Broadway's best. While I certainly hoped this movie would at
least give us a respectable representation of what made the Broadway
show so thrilling, I must admit I was afraid to get my expectations too
high after the recent string of disappointing stage to screen musical
transfers - Phantom of the Opera, Rent and The Producers. Yeah, I had
heard the buzz was good for Dreamgirls, but, well, you know how that
goes. Sometimes the bigger the buzz the flatter it falls.

And let's face it. Movie musicals are just flat-out tough to pull off.
While I consider the number of truly great movies to be pretty small,
the list of truly great movie MUSICALS is even smaller. And the ones
that manage to do more than just recreate a literal adaptation of the
stage play, truly utilizing the medium of film to create something bold
and cinematic are almost non existent: Cabaret, Chicago...maybe one or
two others...end of story. Plus, I think it's even more difficult to
successfully transfer musicals to film today given modern audiences
inability to accept characters "breaking into song."

So I hope I'm not adding to the already extensive hype when I report
that, for me at least, Dreamgirls delivers big time. The film manages
to achieve the near impossible task of remaining faithful to it's
source material (in fact, several times it gives direct nods to
Bennett's brilliant original staging) while utilizing the medium of
film to it's fullest, creating something fresh and exciting in its own
right. 

Dreamgirls not only transitions seamlessly between spoken dialog and
musical numbers, but redefines musical storytelling by using the
musical artifice of "breaking into song" carefully and judiciously to
punctuate only those moments in the movie when the emotion builds to
the point where words can no longer adequately contain it. I can't
express strongly enough how impressed I was with the way Bill Condon
managed to handle these transitions. Truly masterful. But it's not just
the transitions that are handled well. The movie is artfully rendered
and exquisitely produced in literally every area with outstanding,
heartfelt performances by each and every cast member. And yes, Jennifer
Hudson is as good as they say. I can honestly say that there's no way I
can imagine this film being done any better. 

If there's any weak spot in Dreamgirls, it's the dramatic flaws
inherent in the piece itself. The second act of the stage play (after
"and I'm telling you I'm not going") was never quite as dramatically
intense or focused as the first. And the movie feels pretty much the
same way. But, believe me, this is a minor flaw compared to what's
RIGHT about Dreamgirls. 

Make no mistake. This film is going to be a triumph and earn a place in
movie history. Not to mention my DVD library.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantabulous. Stupendous. I can't even believe it. I've changed my pick
for Best Picture this year so many times you'd think I have multiple
personalities. But let me tell you it's just been a tremendous year for
film. Kudos all around. I tell you none of the BP nominees last year,
could compete this year. And I loved Brokeback Mountain and Munich.

Dreamgirls is an amazing movie. I know what you're thinking. I didn't
believe the hype either. But I saw it today and I actually don't think
it's been hyped enough. Everyone deserves to be nominated. But it's
just that kind of year, folks. Too many awesome performances not enough
nominations. Of course the major buzz has been going to Jennifer Hudson
and she does deserve as much praise as she's getting but that's because
she's a 15. Everyone else is a 10. So she's better but it's ridiculous
how awesome everyone else is. Of course Eddie Murphy's great. He's been
in those movies where he plays like 10 fat people, which should have
gotten him some recognition all these years, but of course they
wouldn't go for that. But now that he's done such a great job here
whatever awards he'll get, he'll deserve. And those of us who loved
"Party All the Time" are definitely not surprised at his vocal prowess.
Jamie Foxx is great again you know, but this time he's playing the
villain so maybe that's why he's kinda been ignored. Anika Noni Rose. I
don't know where she came from but I loved her too. All great voices.
All great performances.

Beyonce. Okay, I'm not a huge fan. She's talented and I appreciated her
acting from Austin Powers. Yeah that sounds weird but you could tell
she was comfortable on screen and had a lot of fun. I don't generally
like the way she and her contemporaries sing nowadays so I wasn't
expecting much either way. I figured she'd be passable. But she did
such a great job playing Diana Ross. Everything down to the gestures,
and the fact that she wanted to lose weight for this, tells me that she
definitely took her job seriously. And it paid off.

I think this is rated PG13. I can't remember why. I think there are a
few bad words and one quick flash of some drugs. But I wouldn't mind
taking a kid to this. Because there is so much more to it that's worth
it. In a strange way I thought it would make a great double feature
with Happy Feet. So much toe-tapping to be done. People waited in my
theater through the credits for Jennifer Hudson's name/image to pop up
and they all clapped. That never happens where I live either. Never.
And there were little old ladies going "WOOHOO!" after a couple of
Effie's songs.

If you like movies, this year go see everything. But make sure that you
save time for this one. You're gonna love it.
<|_=00=_|>
The pumped up beats, the glamorous outfits, and that Motown sound -
YEAH! Something which the film industry's been waiting for since
Chicago won a Best Picture Nod at the Oscars in 2002.

The casting is pitch-perfect. Jennifer Hudson is astounding, which
keeps you wondering about her departure from American Idol due to
insufficient voting??!! That voice, and those emotions pave the way for
Oscar glory. Beyonce Knowles, though many critics have credited her as
the weakest link in the movie, is far from being weak. Her
radiant-glamour and her 20lbs less voluptuous figure, shine whilst "the
Dreams" are on stage. She is far from being the weakest link. As Deena
Jones, Beyonce has the voice, experience, looks and talent. Eddie
Murphy actually acts, and "NO!" -he does not over-act, play multiple
characters, or provides unneeded humor- there is a vein of emotions
displayed vividly in his character -James "Thunder" Early - from his
love between his wife and back-up singer, drug addiction, and winding
career. Its too bad, it took Murphy this long to realise his capability
and potential in a significant contribution to the film industry. Jamie
Foxx - is easily the weakest link. His performance is insipid and it
seems like he has been pasted in the scenes to give them attitude and
ego-ism. Though its a very Jamie Foxx character, and is pretty much
Curtis Taylor Jr. Jamie Foxx's on-screen presence and performance was
not good enough. Anika Noni-Rose did not receive the acclaim she
deserved. Sure she is the least known in the cast, but her portrayal of
Lorell was spot-on, and was as powerful as Eddie Murphy and Jennifer
Hudson's performances. Her voice was amazing, and I hope this movie
rockets her career.

The music especially the additional songs, gave this movie the final
touches. Amazingly directed by Bill Condon, this is one movie, that
lived up to its hype. Loved every bit of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah. Pretty sure I saw this movie years ago when it was about the
Supremes.

Another recycled storyline glitzed up Hollywood-style, borrowing
scripts from better making-it-in-the-music-industry films.

Nothing original here.

More make-up, glammier costumes and choreography = more money for the
questionably "talented" Beyonce draw.

If you like the throwback style, you should appreciate actual groups
who struggled (without having digitized voices and a Hollywood empire).

Beyonce's involvement makes this hypocritical garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm an old guy who was around in the 50's and 60's when they were
cranking out those stock rock 'n roll biz movies. I've seen this movie
a dozen times before. Dreamgirls has the clich√©d characters and the
predictable paper thin plot that were characteristic of the genre. Even
in the context of that genre Dreamgirls doesn't make the grade because
it has an instantly forgettable soundtrack.

I think Dreamgirls was supposed to be a parody of those old movies, but
none of the critics got it because they are all too young to have seen
them. They are not classics. Dreamgirls takes itself very seriously
with not one moment of humor. Therein lies the parody -- nobody took
those old rock n roll movies seriously.

As those old rock 'n roll movies demonstrated, transferring great stage
numbers straight to film with twinkie filling between the numbers does
not make a great movie.

My nomination for the most over-hyped movie of 2006 goes to ...
<|_=00=_|>
Yes there are great performances here. Unfortunately, they happen in
the context of a movie that doesn't seem to have a clue what it's
doing. During the first 45-60 minutes of this all the music takes place
as realistic performance. Suddenly, about an hour in, the characters
who, until this point, had always spoken to each other, suddenly start
singing to each other. To further confuse things, a little further in,
out of nowhere, they actually do about 15 minutes of sung-through
dialog, then seem to drop that idea and move on to other things, such
as a number that begins in a jazz club with a drummer and two electric
guitars suddenly turning into a fully orchestrated piece with a massive
unseen string section. On top of all this inconsistency in how the
music is used, is the composers' clear inability to actually write
music in the style that is supposedly being portrayed. While the first
couple of pieces do sort of mimic the 1950s Motown sound, the rest of
the film is just (bad) Broadway show music. Then there's the pure
silliness of snippets of a group doing a bad Jackson family imitation
and Eddie Murphy morphing from Little Richard to James Brown to Lionel
Richie. When he started channeling Stevie Wonder I couldn't help
laughing out loud. This was clearly one of those films that make me
appreciate how little time I have on earth and resent that I wasted two
hours of it watching this film.
