
For me, Werner Herzog will always be remembered for his haunting 1979
remake of "Nosferatu." Next to the silent-era original, it's probably
the greatest artistic statement ever put to film on the myth of the
vampire. Apart from that, he's been one of those fascinatingly
enigmatic European infant-terrible directors, brazenly going against
the studio system and doing whatever he damn well pleases, be it
documentaries or bizarre art films. "Rescue Dawn" comes as a huge
surprise, and proving that he still does whatever he pleases, is a
dramatized version of the true story of Vietnam POW Dieter Dengler that
Herzog previously filmed as a documentary in 1997 entitled "Little
Dieter Needs to Fly." Masterfully realized, "Rescue Dawn" emerges as
Herzog's most accessible film. After over 30 years of film-making, he's
gone "Hollywood" but has done it on his own terms.

"Rescue Dawn" features classical and feverishly transcendent direction
from Herzog, breathtaking cinematography of Laos and Vietnam from Peter
Zeitlinger, a triumphant and evocative music score from Klaus Bedelt,
and Oscar-worthy performances from an amazing cast. In the lead role of
Dieter, Christian Bale once again puts his whole body into the
character (as he did in "The Machinist"). Bale has become one of those
rare actors whose every role seems to be the performance of his career.
Also noteworthy are Jeremy Davies ("Saving Private Ryan," and
"Ravenous") as Eugene from Eugene, Oregon, who seems to always get cast
as the most emotionally unstable soldier, and a shockingly good and
sympathetic Steve Zahn as Duane. Herzog puts the cast through the
ringer in artistically rendered depictions of torture, horror, and
survival in the harshest of conditions. Even in some of the most
cringe-worthy scenes, Herzog turns what could've been wallowing on its
head--witness the fantastic transition from Bale eating live worms and
one crawling in his beard to a beautiful caterpillar leisurely making
its way across a leaf in the peaceful jungle.

Essentially what we have here is the war-movie version of Milos
Foreman's "One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest" as Herzog depicts a group
of average men who were slightly crazy already becoming increasingly
more mad through involuntary imprisonment. While Bale's character
refuses to be held down and is constantly trying to keep his brain and
skills sharp through plotting an escape, some of his fellow prisoners
are rendered hopeless as they have turned their own minds into the most
impenetrable walls. Herzog does a great job of depicting tiny bits of
humanity and dignity shining through in the most inhumane conditions,
and how the will to survive can triumph over death. He's somehow
crafted a movie that is both boldly anti-establishment and
unapologetically pro-soldier and patriotism. Being based on a true
story where the ending is known to the viewer doesn't take away from
the white-knuckle suspense and human drama. Unlike Foreman's classic
from the 1970's, where Jack Nicholson (mirrored here by Bale) flew over
the cuckoo's nest and disappeared into his own insanity, Herzog gives
up hope. One flew over the bamboo hut...and he made it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at the world premiere last night, and it was really great.
Not my favorite Herzog movie, but overall his most well rounded one and
definitely his most mainstream. It has a chance of doing quite well at
the box office. The acting is all around terrific, and the camera work
beautiful.

Most Herzog movies seem like these flawed masterpieces; movies that are
worth watching for several moments of intense brilliance. Rescue Dawn
had these moments of brilliance, and the rest seemed like a very well
made thriller / action movie. However, it didn't quite pack the same
punch as the best moments of Fitzcarraldo or Aguirre. Still, I gave it
5/5 on my voting ballot.
<|_=00=_|>
What a way to have a little counter-programming this July 4th! In a
time when the summer blockbuster means sequels and remakes galore
delivering high powered special effects but not much human soul, we
need a picture with Dieter Dengler as the 'hero' of sorts. It's the
closest Herzog has gotten to telling a story of the purest kind of
survival, where it's not about a guy out to kill all the bad guys in
sight ala Rambo, but in its harrowing way much more extraordinary. As
played by Christian Bale, who goes once again to be totally gaunt,
Dengler is a pilot who's been stripped of everything except for his
will to live- which he has in spades, and is both very strong and
vulnerable at the same time. Strong in the sense that he's capable of
organizing an escape for himself and his fellow prisoners (including an
unforgettable Steve Zahn- yes, unforgettable, not the usual tenor for
Zahn, and Jeremy Davies, looking very much like Charles Manson),
vulnerable enough to get close to Zahn's Dwight, leading to very sad
results.

LIke any great POW movie, Herzog does give his film many moments that
aren't totally tension filled or with exposition relating to escape:
there's humor, like with a prison guard who's a midget named Jumbo, or
a dog with a few hind-leg walking skills, or the one prisoner who
doesn't say a word but conveys "yes" without even nodding. He even has
the wisdom to put the same educational short from Little Dieter Needs
to Fly, for soldiers explaining what to do in case put behind enemy
lines, only this time with the soldiers giving their own raucous
commentary on the ship. And in what could be considered "conventional"
in the sense that it's not totally abstract like Fata Morgana or wildly
bleak like Aguirre, his style a lot of the time is that of a skilled
professional as opposed to the great experimenter he can be. The
documentary approach is still there, to be sure, but what's most
fascinating considering the studio backing and slew of producers is
that it never feels false as a Herzog film, that it still has the
technique and approach to telling an epic story that his 8-man crewed
films did. There were also many shots that I had rolling in my head
long after the film ended.

Featuring appropriately an emotional musical score, exceptional
performances, and that good old jungle that's served as one of Herzog's
love/hate facets of his career, Rescue Dawn is accessible entertainment
that is also profound as a tale loaded with the kinds of ugly details
(though not too graphic in PG-13 form) that wouldn't ever get by in the
usual sentimental Hollywood malarkey. A must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
I am amazed at how many people are so consumed with Anti-War fever that
they can't appreciate a true story about a man who overcomes something
that most people couldn't. If it does not reinforce their
preconceptions then they consider it propaganda. Yet these same people
hale anything, no matter how absurdly ridiculous that reinforces their
beliefs. They completely miss the point. Their own prejudices keep them
from recognizing and appreciating a work of art when they see it. Many
of today's filmmakers seeking to make both fictional films and
documentaries about the war in Iraq, as well as wars from the past, are
running into a brick wall. Both Hollywood and the Independent Film
Industry are refusing to show films that do not take a distinctive
anti-war slant. Filmmakers that show an objective view of warfare,
neither taking a position for or against the war, are finding it next
to impossible to get their films shown. Likewise, if the film is even
remotely related to a war and does not blatantly condemn it then it
does not get shown. Just ask Nick Bicanic & Jason Bourque how hard it
was for them to get their excellent documentary about the modern day
use of Private Security Companies seen. As them how many studios
offered to purchase the rights to film if they would only change the
tone to one of condemnation rather than examination. I get the sense,
from the back story about the lack of financing Herzog was able to get
for this project that he ran into the same problem. Frankly I am
appalled. The industry, both mainstream and independent, are pushing
their own agendas over all else. The art form is suffering greatly for
it. I congratulate filmmakers like Bicanic and Herzog for refusing to
take no for answer. As for this film, it honors a man who risked his
life not only for his country but for his fellow POWs. You can hate war
and still respect the men and women who were called upon to fight it.
You can hate war and still call a POW who escapes capture despite
impossible odds a hero. You can hate the war in Iraq and appreciate the
sacrifices the men and women who are fighting it are making on your
behalf. Don't let your own personal bias lead you to make a mistake
you'll regret for the rest of your life. Protest the war all you like,
just do it in a way that does not belittle the airmen, soldiers,
sailors and marines who are fighting it. Whether you agree with their
decision or not, they deserve your understanding and your respect. Just
as Dieter Dengler, the POW on whom this film is based, deserves your
respect. Don't belittle his sacrifice by politicizing this film.
Whether you agree with his decision to become fighter pilot or not, his
accomplishments.
<|_=00=_|>
Besides terrific acting & a compelling (true!!) story, this film does
not wallow in over-glorifying itself. It doesn't try to pump up the
audience with patriotic blather or "gee whiz, what a guy" feel good
stuff. It simply tells the story of this incredibly courageous and
resourceful man, Dieter Dengler. This is a great example of how films
should be made. Also, the film's historical content was very, very
accurate, the writers took few if any liberties with the truth.

Christian Bale is indeed an actor to be reckoned with. He's quickly
becoming one of my favorites. His acting is believable and subdued.

Highly recommended but see it in a theatre and not on DVD in order to
get the full effect of this great story.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a big fan of the mad German genius Werner Herzog, you might
be disappointed in this, his first foray into Hollywood film-making.
This is polished and not at all experimental. However, to me it feels
like Herzog, when he stepped up to the plate, said to himself, "Well, I
can make an American film. And I can make a better one than 95% of
American films." And there's nothing wrong with that. The film is a
dramatization of the events retold in Herzog's earlier documentary
Little Dieter Needs to Fly. Christian Bale plays Dieter Dengler, an
American citizen and German emigré who had one of the most impressive
survival instincts ever seen in a human being. Shot down in Laos in the
opening throes of the Vietnam War, he was taken to a brutal POW camp
where he met two other American POWs (Jeremy Davies and Steven Zahn in
the film) and three Asian men who had worked with the enemy. The two
Americans had been there for an average of a couple of years, and had
all but given up hope (the Davies character is sure there will be peace
soon enough). Through his amazing ingenuity, Dieter planned a heroic
escape. Most of the movie takes place in the POW camp. Most of what I
remember from Little Dieter Needs to Fly, which I saw around two years
ago, is the escape. It's a disturbing, horrifying tale of survival. I
would have liked this part to be the longer, but it works very well.
It's certainly harrowing. I was disappointed that one of the images I
really remember from the original film did not appear: the bear that
stalked Dieter during his final days wandering in the jungle. He
considered it almost a friend, but in the back of his mind realized it
was following him because it wanted to eat him. Herzog keeps things
extremely subtle, telling them very much the way they happened. The
story develops more like real life, not like a movie. It keeps
melodrama to a minimum. My only problem is how it ends. The ending is
way too boisterous and uplifting. Dieter Dengler was most definitely an
upbeat kind of guy, but his suffering and the awful things that he saw
 heck, with the awful things that we just experienced with him, so
vivid is this movie  don't lead well to the celebration that ends the
movie. I very much liked this film, and think it is one of the best
I've seen so far this year.
<|_=00=_|>
After getting shot down in Laos, Dieter Dengler is captured, tortured,
and eventually transported to a remote POW camp where he is united with
fellow American pilots with the same problem. With the arrival of
Dengler, a new spirit emerges among the group, and an escape plan soon
hatches. RESCUE DAWN is a story of struggle, friendship, keeping one's
sanity, and survival amidst a war-brewing Vietnam and its inhospitable
jungles. Werner Herzog does a great job with his direction, giving his
actors full reign as well as inspiring them to their creative peaks.
Each actor in the film does their best with each role; none becoming
too hammy or extreme in their techniques; with Bale, Zahn, and Davies
all shedding flesh as well as comfort in preparation for their tasking
roles. Great cinematography throughout, as the Laotian backdrop is
realized vividly; looming stone cliffs and walls of vine add further
quality to the prison feel, and empty fields and lush rain forest
paints the wild of Vietnam effectively. The music is excellent, and
serves the film nobly, never trying too hard for tears or pity. RESCUE
DAWN is a feel-good movie without really trying to become one, which is
where so many survival and hardship movies fail; but any imperfections
this film does have, is certainly overshadowed by its obvious technical
genius, excellent acting, and courageous story.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this tonight at a preview in Somerville, Mass - a really
excellent film. Just such good storytelling, with great suspense, and
the usual Herzog weird touches that I am guessing must have come from
him (and not the true story). The acting is also superb - both
Christian Bale and Steve Zahn are fantastic. Bale really captured this
guy's incredibly indomitable spirit, but also his almost child-like
wonder and naivete at the world - which ironically enough helps him
survive. I found the whole story really moving. The very ending of the
film really disappointed me, but it didn't ruin the evening by any
means. Wonderful music too. Interesting also to see the documentary
about the REAL Dieter, LITTLE DIETER NEEDS TO FLY
(http://imdb.com/title/ tt0145046/), also made by Herzog. I saw it at a
film festival 10 years ago - and Herzog and Dieter were there! Of
course, much of Dieter's 'real-life' obsessive-compulsive behavior -
such as opening and closing a door multiple times after passing through
- turns out to have been 'suggested' by Herzog! Cheeky filmmakers...
<|_=00=_|>
Writer-director Werner Herzog, whose films have always been marked by a
rapport with the natural world, takes this trademark to Laos in "Rescue
Dawn," a compelling, intimate account of the Vietnam conflict. Based on
the real-life tale of Dieter Dengler (Christian Bale), a
German-born/American-bred fighter pilot with a cocky, cowboy-like
demeanor, the film goes for realism and largely succeeds. The setting
is a microscopic POW camp where Dengler and a half-dozen prisoners,
including Dwight (Steve Zahn, playing well against type) and Gene
(Jeremy Davies--"Saving Private Ryan") plot an escape. Interestingly,
the extensive Vietnamese spoken in the film is not subtitled, which
actually adds to the strong sense of isolation incurred from the POWs'
position. Herzog also paints "Rescue Dawn" as a timely meditation on
the Iraq War--while Dieter's John Wayne persona (that takes a
drastically different turn in the second half) could be read as an
endorsement of American militarism, we see the emaciated, defeated
prisoners almost as symbols of a war that's been "lost" from the
beginning; even later in the film, the Vietnamese captors begin to show
the same signs of fatigue and desperation. The whole concept of
"escape" is essential to making an entertaining, suspenseful film
(which "Rescue Dawn" certainly is), but also reflective of a current
foreign-policy mess that should have been curtailed before it even
began. But Herzog is subtle in his politics, and lets the jungle do
most of the talking--once Dieter and his fellow prisoners escape, the
road to a "happy ending" is anything but "cut and dry." The director
often puts us in the midst of torture and terror, but also milks
moments of surprising humor to great effect, and gets excellent
performances from the entire cast (while Bale is top-billed, Zahn and
Davies are the real standouts). My only real complaint about the film
is a conclusion that comes off as contrived and unnecessary, stretching
the credibility of the harrowing realism that came before. Otherwise,
"Rescue Dawn" is one of 2007's standout features.
<|_=00=_|>
The biggest compliment I can give Werner Herzog and his crew is this:
Rescue Dawn is the most most well developed plot of this year.

Rescue Dawn follows Dieter Dengler (Christian Bale) and his struggle to
survive in the jungles during the early stages of Vietnam.

All Dieter Dengler has ever wanted was to be a pilot. He was pretty
much neutral when it came to war, but his main reason for signing up
for military service was so he could fly. His one and only passion.

His first mission was a heavily classified mission in Laos. Dieter is
shot down and begins on the run in the jungle. It doesn't take too long
before he's captured and sent to a prison camp of sorts. He's locked up
in Vietnamese huts with 5 other men. The two he immediately connects
with are Duane (Steve Zahn) and to a lesser extent, Gene (Jeremy
Davies) One thing becomes obvious quickly. His captors are relentlessly
mean and his cell mates are borderline insane. Especially Gene. Dieter
appears to be the only one who completely has it together.

Dieter becomes frustrated and quickly realizes he's not going to live
much longer if he stays where he's at. Along with the 5 other fellows,
Dieter plans his escape.

What Herzog does so brilliantly in this movie is set it all up to come
full circle. In the opening scene, Bale and others mock a training
video that tells you what to do if you are stuck in the jungle on your
own only to end out needing similar skills when he's on the run. The 5
men all appear crazy and we wonder "What's with these guys? Is Dieter
the only sane one in the bunch?" well, Herzog makes you feel
claustrophobic in that camp. Slowly we see Dieter's mind go and start
to understand that all of these fellows were probably just as sane at
one point as Dieter.

This is a slow paced, expertly developed war drama. If you don't like
slow moving character studies, avoid at all cost, but if you can even
slightly appreciate such a thing, you will love Rescue Dawn. One of the
better films of 07.

9/10
