
The "Three burials of Melquiades Estrada" is a multi-layered story of
death, retribution, loneliness, and remembrance. Although it takes
place in modern day Texas, its main character Pete Perkins, superbly
played by Tommy Lee Jones, seems to be living resolutely in the past.
He is determined to seek justice for his best friend's death and forces
the guy responsible for to a journey across the borders in Mexico to
locate the village of the deceased for a proper burial. This journey
will bring forward the stark contrast between the values of two ways of
life and the landscape transversed is both geographical and emotional.

Modern civilization throughout the film is mainly represented by 4WD
cars, sniper rifles, dinners, shopping malls, trailers, and TV-sets
incessantly showing soap operas, while the characters revelling into
those manifestations are invariably emotionally numb, disaffected
people, trapped to a perfunctory life from which they seem unable or
unwilling to escape. Concomitantly the values of the old west, based on
friendship, loyalty and commitment have ebbed, though they are still
existent as embodied by the relationship of Pete with his best friend.
Pete is forced to pursue his own sense of justice after being
repeatedly scorned by the contemptuous behavior of the authorities
towards him and his demand for rightful punishment of the culprit, a
cool, violence prone and emotionally detached border-guard.

The story is masterly told in a sturdy manner that perfectly serves the
complexity of the excellent screenplay by an apposite use of flashbacks
and wonderfully shot sequences. All the performances are top notch in
their expressive minimalism, greatly contributing to the lasting
emotional impact of this outstanding film.
<|_=00=_|>
I just had the pleasure of seeing this wholly original modern-day
American western. Just when you think you have this film's plot pigeon
holed it takes you in a different direction. THREE BURIALS OF
MELQUIADES ESTRADA is in part a revenge story, but it's also much more
than that. There are no one dimensional characters. As much as you want
to hate Barry Pepper's numbed border patrol officer, you can't help but
feel sorry for him. And Tommy Lee Jones' Pete will break your heart. He
and Pepper have never been better and Jones' direction is natural and
subtle. My only problem with the film was sometimes it got a little too
quirky for its own good. But for the most part I believed every moment
and really cared for these lost characters. It's one of those films
that really leaves you thinking about a lot of stuff, from mortality
and loss to the very real problems of racism and inhumanity. It's never
preachy or self aware and isn't out to impress, it's just telling a
story. I highly recommend this movie. It's by far one of the best films
I've seen recently.
<|_=00=_|>
Ay, carramba! A diablo of a marketing challenge: a bilingual movie,
with an impossible-to-remember title, a story of white trash, Mexican
wetbacks (that's the film's language), cruel Border Patrol "cowboys,"
and Tommy Lee Jones as the director and the uniquely memorable lead
character... and a film that's one of the year's best.

"The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada" opens with a somewhat
confusing sequence of flashbacks, and for the first half hour, you wish
you were watching something more "orderly," but you'll be hooked
anyway. For the next hour and a half, however, there is a crescendo of
images and situations hitting the viewer over the head, amazing and
moving.

Taking the corpse of a friend - and his very much alive killer - back
to Mexico for a "proper burial" and to mete out justice, Jones' voyage
is a quirky, epic adventure, based on the brilliant writing of
Guillermo Arriaga (of "21 Grams"), and filmed to perfection by Chris
Menges (of "The Killing Fields" and "The Mission").

Besides Jones (who won the 2005 Cannes Festival best actor award for
this), "3 Burials" features fabulous performances by Barry Pepper ("25
Hours"), Julio Cedillo, and a large group of remarkable supporting
actors on both sides of the border.

Jones says something in the production notes that could sound arrogant
or affected... except that it's true: "Some visual influences have been
the kabuki theater, the art of Donald Judd and Dan Flavin, and the
films of Akira Kurasawa, Sam Peckinpah, and Jean-Luc Godard." Amen.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada" is a surprise. Directed by
Tommy Lee Jones, marking his first time behind the camera, with a
screen play by Guillermo Arriaga, this is a film that tells a story
about an murder in a troubled border area between the US and Mexico.
The film is loosely based on a true story that happened in that part of
the country some years ago.

Pete Perkins is a decent man. When his ranch hand is killed under
mysterious circumstances, Pete jumps into action. Pete wants to take
his friend, Melquiades Estrada, across the border to Mexico to make
sure he receives the proper burial he deserves. A coyote has lead to
the first burial site and the following investigation involves the
local sheriff, Belmont, but Pete will have none of that.

Pete's investigation leads him to the corrupt border guard Mike Norton.
Perkins captures the man and with the body strapped to a horse and his
captive in another, Pete begins the long journey to Mexico. He passes
the hot land between the two countries in a voyage that will bring
Melquiades to his home.

The separate narratives at the beginning of the film are somehow
confusing and the viewer is advised to pay close attention to it since
it has multiple stories going on at a time when we don't know much of
what is happening. We get to meet the cruel Norton and his bored wife
Lou Ann. It also serve as the way to tell us how Pete and Norton meet.

Tommy Lee Jones, with his rugged looks, brings a tremendous presence to
his own film. Mr. Jones is a decent man who can't stand the injustice
his hired hand suffered as he delves into solving the mystery of
Melquiades' death. Barry Pepper is quite good as the nasty Mike Norton,
a man who gets much more than what he bargained for. Dwight Yoakam,
January Jones and Melissa Leo are seen in minor roles. Julio Cedillo
plays the dead man, Melquiades Estrada.

Tommy Lee Jones is blessed to be working on his first venture with the
great cinematographer Chris Menges. Mr. Menges' take on the scenery is
one of the best things in the film. The musical score by Marco Beltrami
is also another asset. The editing of Roberto Silvi sets the tone for
the early part of the movie.

"The Three Deaths of Melquiades Estrada" shows us a mature Tommy Lee
Jones who has learned his lesson well in front of the camera. Now,
working behind, as well as directing himself and his amazing cast, he
shows a humongous talent that ought to be seen in future ventures.
<|_=00=_|>
The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada(2005) ****

Tommy Lee Jones steps up to the plate and takes a big first swing with
'Three Burials.' This is a movie that captures the old
Peckinpah-esquire style of the rugged west and combines wonderfully
with Guillermo Arriaga's moody and alienated script. This is a film
that could have took a political mood and dealt with the issues of
border security and the like, but it smartly refrains from doing so and
instead focuses sharply on the heart of society itself - people. 

Tommy Lee Jones plays Pete, a rancher who has few friends with his
closest friends being a woman from town, and a man from Mexico. The
woman is the wife of a local diner owner, Rachael (Melissa Leo). She
also happens to be extremely bored and engages in extramarital affairs.
Pete loves her, but she loves her husband. And possibly the sheriff,
and possibly Pete. The other emotional connection in Pete's life, the
Mexican, is Melquiades Estrada (Julio Cedillo), an illegal immigrant
who finds work and friendship with Pete. Pete loves him like a son, or
a brother, or friend, or a combination of all three. Barry Pepper plays
Mike, the new border patrolman in town. He is brutal. Perhaps by
nature, or not. He is bored; he passes the time sitting outside of his
jeep looking at dirty mags. His wife, Lou Ann (January Jones), is also
bored. She feels isolated and separated from her husband. She spends
her time at the local diner and befriends Rachael. While she sits at
home, her husband, the rookie border patrolman, makes a stupid mistake
and tries in vain to hide it. The whole town is bored, even the police
and the border guards. They find out, the police find out, and in a
small town people talk, but more importantly people listen because they
have nothing else to do. Pete finds out about Mike's mistake and sets
out to carry out Mel's last wishes and bury him in his home town back
in Mexico. 

The story has its characters and connects them in ways that we don't
always suspect they will connect. No one is a cardboard cut out. Even
better, no one is simple. Each character is complex and has their own
distinct feelings. A major theme is that of alienation. The characters
are alienated not only from each other, but from themselves as well.
Earlier i stated that he film took the right road and avoids making a
blatant political message. The movie still carries a message though. It
is a commentary on life and society. 

The story has parallels to Peckinpah's 'Bring me the Head of Alfedo
Garcia.' It has a very Peckinpah style, and features a man who makes a
long journey with a dead body. He cares for it and tries to preserve
it, even talks to the body sometimes. The film has some great
cinematography as well, and the score suits it perfectly. The acting is
wonderful, and I have to say that Tommy Lee Jones has rarely ever been
better than he is here. Barry Pepper also gives a solid performance.
This is Tommy Lee Jones first directing credit in major film and he
knocks this one out of the park. Jones clearly has a strong control of
his movie and this should go down in history as one of those rare first
time wonders. 

4/4
<|_=00=_|>
This movie not only has some of the best acting I've seen in a while;
but also it features a full cast of interesting characters - from the
protagonists to random encounters, each one seems... to exist somewhere
beyond the screen. Top notch photography, emotionally wrenching,
dealing with complex issues of today's society and depicting everything
unashamedly, this movie is simply awesome. Every little detail seems to
have been worked at, pondered over and hammered out until it was just
perfect. Every single character is memorable. Every single shot is
beautiful. I could simply find no flaws with it. 

While some may find the subject of the movie distasteful, I found the
manner in which it is approached to be just perfect. There are of
course clichés - these are inevitable. But the attention to detail
brings this movie to such heights of perfection that you cannot help
but twist your face into a satisfying grin while the movie is on, and
for much time afterwards.
<|_=00=_|>
The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada is for me the film that saved
2005. Written by Guillermo Arriaga, also writer of "Amores Perros" and
"21 grams" and the first movie of Tommy Lee Jones as a director (but
also lead actor), "The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada" tells the
story of Ranch hand Pete Perkins (Tommy Lee Jones) who wants to fulfill
the promise he made to his recently deceased Mexican friend by burying
him in his hometown in Mexico. The power of this modern western and
initiatic journey resides in the complexity of the characters, their
depth and their controversial behavior. None of the protagonists are
one dimensional; none of them are right or wrong but all of them do
right and wrong things. They are not always rational, and most of the
time they feel lost. In one word they all appear profoundly human.
Build over a chase dynamic fueled with contrasts and paradoxes, the
film opposes Wild West landscape and Modern carton built houses, 4WD
tracking hunt and horse back journey, fake TV soaps and true friendship
but maybe most of all Freedom and Prison. Indeed most if not all
characters are trapped in their apathetic lives from which they can't
or don't want to escape forcing us to ask ourselves how close is our
lives to the spectacle projected in front of our eyes. Melquiades
Estrada embodies this possibility of Escape and now that he has been
buried 3 times he transcends this Freedom making redemption possible
not only through death but also through rebirth, suggesting that nobody
is beyond it.
<|_=00=_|>
As if we were being thrown smack in the middle of a Cormac McCarthy
novel, >>Three Burials<< powerfully serves up the borderlands milieu
through its bipolar texture and tone: both graphic and dreamy, tragic
and comical. That fusion is accented by memorable characters and
age-old themes: immigration and the Rio Grande; Spanish and English and
Spanglish; violence and personal relationships; coyotes and border
patrol; a tired waitress with a Chekhovian longing and an inept sheriff
with nervous problems; a young, blonde wife terribly out of place, and
an aging, rugged cowboy firmly in place (>>Ride the High Country<<,
anyone?). Finally, the film centers on a classically picaresque story
of personality development through trials and tribulations: Pete (Tommy
Lee Jones), on a flashback-laden quest for his own way of justice,
dragging along the rapidly disintegrating corpse of his friend, brings
about the personal journey of a trigger-happy, macho-racist border
patrol officer (played by Barry Pepper) from guilt to redemption...
Wonderfully borderlands, comparable to >>Lone Star<<. Watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada 

Directed by Tommy Lee Jones (2005)

I have always liked Tommy Lee Jones as an actor. He has made some
really great performances in the movies JFK, Heaven & Earth, and The
Fugitive. And otherwise he has always been good, although he got some
typecast in some stereotype roles. In 1995 he debuted as a director on
TV, with the movie The Good Old Boys, which I sadly haven't seen. Now,
he has joined some of his famous and acknowledged colleges like Clint
Eastwood, Mel Gibson, Denzel Washington, and made the step from actor,
to actor & director in his own very first motion picture - The Three
Burials of Melquiades Estrada.

In this movie, Tommy plays the lead as Pete Perkins, who under some
mysterious circumstances, finds out that his best friend has got
killed. As a consequence of this, he reacts strong and dramatically,
wanting to fulfil his old promise to his, now gone, friend.

The script is written by Guillermo Arriaga, and he mixes the characters
and the beautiful landscape into an original story, dealing with many
subjects. As said before, the movie is beautifully filmed and good
edited. Aside from the director, the shooting star  Barry Pepper 
delivers another very good and solid performance! He is a very good
actor, which I hope to see a lot from in the future 

All in all a solid, and good piece of movie craft from Tommy Lee Jones,
which I know respect more than ever! 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Tommy Lee Jones' film about a rancher (Jones) who keeps his promise to
his friend and co-worker Melquiades Estrada who wanted to be buried in
his homeland in Mexico. The film is slow at times, but gets it point
across well, and I believe those instances in the film where not much
is going on actually help it in order to put things in perspective for
us viewers. The cinematography is artistically beautiful, while the
score, screenplay from Guillermo Arriaga (who also appears in the film)
and the performancer are first-rate. Amazing how films like this go
virtually overlooked in the press and eyes of mainstream American
cinema-goers. This film deserves to get all the nomination and award
hype that less worthy stuff like Brokeback mountain or even Walk the
line have received. This is a true masterpiece from Tommy Lee Jones,
who proves hes just as credible in directing as in acting. 10/10
