
The movie is quite simply, the best Family movie in the past few years.
From the beginning, the movie sucks you in with narration from a Disney
Legend. You fall in love with the characters right away and it's quite
simply a return to the greatness that Disney can deliver. The cast led
by Amy Adams, Patrick Dempsey, James Marsden and Timothy Spall
(Wormtail from the Harry Potter movies who gives an inspired
Oscar-worthy performance) is impeccable. Rounding out the cast is Susan
Sarandon who is part Evil Queen, part Maleficent and pure EVIL and the
adorable Rachel Covey who is the perfect "mini-princess" for Giselle to
play off of. The music by Stephen Schwartz and Alan Menken (in a return
to brilliance) is terrific. The original songs are the best to come out
of Disney since The Hunchback of Notre Dame. The story, quite simply is
part fish-out-of-water, part romantic comedy, part animated and all
fun. The live-action portion of the movie feels like your watching
animation. The way that Giselle infects those around her with her
innocent "Princess-esque" demeanor is really at the heart of what makes
the movie so great. Of course, it wouldn't be Disney without a few
scene-stealing animals who don't take over the movie and really are
what they are meant to be, supporting characters. There are a few nods
to the past as well. I won't share them here, but let's just say they
are subtle enough not to be distracting, but still there enough to
bring a smile to your face. The violence in the movie is nothing more
than what you would see in any other PG family movie, and really aside
from being live-action, isn't anything you wouldn't see in movies such
as Sleeping Beauty or Snow White.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I want to say that, there is a comment on this thread where
someone calls Enchanted disturbing, should be rated R, etc. It is
obvious she did not see the film. This reviewer is high, and, this
review should be removed.

Enchanted was a surprisingly great, fun modernized Cinderella tale,
including 3 show- stopping musical numbers where the test audience
applauded after each song.

Amy Adams is perfect, James Marsden, once again, as he was in
Hairspray, was very appealing. I felt Patrick Dempsey was good, if not
a tad old for the part, and, his fiancé was OK, nothing spectacular.
(in fact, I feel this movie would have worked a bit better if Dempsey
had a good girl "friend" vs a fiancé).

That being said, I loved the message this movie teaches to children,
that is, get to know someone before saying "i do" (as is the message
with way too many princess movies, and is the reason why too many
suffer youthful failed marriages.

Enchanted was great fun, and very funny! A must see!
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw the trailer for Enchanted in the spring, from the moment it
ended, I knew this was a movie that I wanted to see. I finally saw it
today and it's everything that I hoped for and more. It was nice to
finally see a Disney movie that wasn't computer animated, the beginning
was almost a forgotten memory of the old fashion animation that I miss
so much. But Enchanted is without a doubt one of the most fun films of
the year and so perfect for the whole family. I though the plot was so
extremely clever, what if the cartoons with the fairytale stories met
into today's world? Especially in New York City? The cast just looked
like they had the ultimate blast making this movie and really brought
it to life. They each held their own and were a perfect choice for the
comedic role they had to play. Enchanted is a clever twist on the
classic fairy tale.

Giselle has just met the prince of her dreams, he's saved her from a
troll and asked for her hand in marriage, everything seems to be going
good for them. But Prince Edward's step mother has other plans in mind
when she doesn't want to give up her crown and let Giselle take it. So
she sends Giselle to another world, one where there is no "happily ever
after", cut to New York City 2007. She's in human form and needs to get
back to her land, she meets a man Robert and his daughter, Morgan, she
stays with them and ends up falling for Robert. Just in time since
Prince Edward throws himself to the other dimension to save her, but
it's definitely a life changing experience for both of them, especially
when the queen arrives to take care of Giselle herself.

Enchanted is one of the year's best movies and one of Disney's best, I
guarantee it'll be a true classic down the line. The whole story was
charming as well as funny and just a great time to watch, I don't know
if I could pick a favorite part, there were so many to choose from, but
I think the part where the prince first arrives to New York, how
determined he is, he even takes on the city bus because he thinks it's
a beast. For me, I think James Mardson stole the film as Prince Edward,
he just played it off so perfectly and was such a pleasure to watch on
the screen. Enchanted is one of the year's best films, I would highly
recommend it for you or the family, it's a definite treasure of 2007.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I received tickets to this movie as a gift. My husband
was just going to take our daughter, but we decided to all go. We took
my 11 year old son and my 10 year old daughter to this movie thinking
it would just be something to do since "we had the tickets anyway." It
was supposed to just be a fun night. We had no idea how "in love" with
this movie we would all be! We laughed out loud, I cried, and the kids
had the best time. We were actually holding hands and singing on the
way back to the car. It's a must see! Dads, you'll laugh, I promise! We
can't wait until it comes out on video! It's Great family time. Go go
GO see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In honor of the Thanksgiving holiday, I will post a family film review.
Who better to deliver in that genre than Disney with their new
animated/live action hybrid Enchanted. This movie is very cute and
quite good at being both wholesome for the kiddies and tongue-in-cheek
for the adults. You need to appreciate a studio being able to poke fun
at itself. By using the classic stories of Cinderella, Snow White, and
Sleeping Beauty, all made famous in their own right by the Mouse House,
we are given some big laughs. The acting is very self-referential and
broad as far as the fairy tale roles that make the journey into our
world's New York City go. Screenwriter Bill Kelly gives the cast some
great lines and set pieces to play in, ultimately showing us that the
storybooks aren't always right. True love does exist, but not
necessarily with the one you first think. The message is good, the
songs are good, the animation and acting are goodDisney came through
with this one. Along with Meet the Robinsons, Mickey and friends may be
turning the ship around into a new renaissance.

We are ushered into the story with some 2D animation of Giselle, a
pretty girl looking for her Prince Charming. That man is in fact Prince
Edward, recently being led by his stepmother's henchman to battle ogres
and partake in adventure to keep his mind off a wife. You see if he
marries, Queen Narissa loses her crown and he becomes King. She is
having none of that and will cross into evil stepmother/queen/hag
territory to trick Giselle into falling through a portal to our world.
Now a fish-out-of-water, she must find her way back to her love, that
eventually comes looking for her along with her best friend Pip the
squirrel and the evil witch's lackey Nathaniel. It is on this path that
she runs into divorce lawyer Robert Philip and turns both his and her
life upside down.

I love how the fantasy world comes into ours so awkwardly. Giselle's
ability to call on all the animals of her meadows allows her to do the
same in NY, only the creatures she gets are rats, pigeons, cockroaches,
and fliesyet they all do the work anywayit's priceless. Also, when
she breaks into song, all the people on the streets join along and have
a blast being part of the huge choreographed numbers. Her innocence is
very precious and trying new things always gets her new lawyer friend
in trouble, yet helps those in her wake. Patrick Dempsey plays that
friend to great effect. He sees what she is doing and can't help but
fall for her joyful, inability to see cruelty in the world. Playing the
straight man to her craziness leads to wonderful moments of laughter as
well as those full of poignancy and compassion, giving the kids in the
audience something to think about and lessons to learn.

While Dempsey's evolution as a man is something to appreciate, it is
the transplants that shine. Amy Adams and James Marsden play Giselle
and Prince Edward respectively. They bring the happy-go-lucky mentality
of Andalasia to our disenchanted realm. The over-acting is great and
the culture shock fantastic. Adams is gorgeous and has the chops to
make the aloofness work, but also change later on into a human being
that sees what reality brings. When she tells Edward that she was
thinking instead of singing, his reaction really hits home on the vast
void between storybook fantasy and the real world. As for Marsden, his
childish actions are truly funny; a borderline simpleton, he believes
in chivalry and when he is told a suspected villain is really a friend,
he just flips a switch and is OK with it. His smile is infectious and
his vacant expressions indispensable to the film working on the dual
levels it does.

Everything works here to bring a wonderful family-friendly story to
life. Complete with its pop-up book bookends, Enchanted is truly
magical. I don't know how it could ever have worked as a complete
animated work, as I have read it originated as, so thankfully they took
the plunge to expand it with live action. Crossing between the two
worlds is seamless2D characters turned into humans or 3D computer
generated animals. With many instances ripe for a wrong turn, the
filmmakers seem to come to all the right decisions. Working in older
Disney yarns and playing each story thread to its effective conclusion
leaves us with a tale that could become a classic amongst the ones it
appropriates. So, if you are looking for a way to spend a couple hours
with the whole family, Enchanted is definitely a great way to go.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a teenage boy, and the reviews for "Enchanted," along with some
friendly persuasion from my sisters, moved me to give this live
action/animated combo. a chance. In the first fourteen minutes of
Enchanted, there were two things that caught my attention: 1)The
never-ending, sugar-coated, sing-along tune and 2) The grainy style of
animation that Disney lavished upon the screen(a tribute to the Disney
classics, such as Beauty and the Beast and Sleeping Beauty); in this
time span, I felt truly embarrassed to be sitting in the theater with
the older couples clustered around me. I mean, what kind of boy in his
right mind would want to watch a movie with musical numbers and pretty
princesses? And yet, there was something about it...the aire of it
almost took me back to the days of my childhood when I would smash my
face up to the T.V. screen, when Belle and the Beast were having their
unforgettable ball dance or when Ariel was brushing her hair with a
fork. It was these sorts of memories that surfaced to my mind as I kept
watching Enchanted. And it kept getting better and better. When there
was a sudden switch to live-action, my heart was captured by Amy Adams,
who seems to be, in my opinion, the finest choice for Giselle. Prince
Edward and Robert also had their perfect fits (James Marsden and
Patrick Dempsey). Even though this movie is close to perfect, it still
has its problems. There is an aire of predictability in the storyline,
as well as the fact that it's swamped with clichés (some of which are
fresh, and some of which are flat). Yet it flows on, innocently, with
its strong actors/actresses, decent-enough screenplay that gives you a
warm feeling in your heart (which is what Disney is supposed to do,
right?), spectacular music numbers that have charm, and the fact that
it is suitable for all ages. There is a little something for everyone
in this film--and it's not just a film either--it is a time-machine
back to the golden era of Disney's animated films, and its live-action
ones as well. And it helps me look forward to the new Disney: one that
keeps surprising me more and more every single day.
<|_=00=_|>
I had recently seen a screening of this movie and was pleasantly
surprised that it had completely exceeded my expectations. The theater
was full of laughs from the beginning throughout all ages. In the
beginning I was worried that Amy Adams would make Giselle seem like
some obnoxious daytime children's television character, but instead she
managed to please the audience during the entire movie. There was also
enough humor to keep the older viewers entertained from hilarious
allusions to popular fairy tales and even some "adult" themes
insinuated, while still keeping the film Disney clean. Overall I
completely enjoyed this movie and recommend it to all families.
<|_=00=_|>
so lovely! this is a film for singles looking for love, for kids, just
an all around adorable film--so different and so inventive! LOVED it.
(not to mention the cutest chipmunk scene you've ever seen!) everyone
who walked out of the screening was smiling. it's so rare to find films
that are really well put together script-wise, and this is definitely
one of them. u might even want to see it more than once--it's that
good. i literally fell in love with this film. Amy Adams is a
delight--I was pleasantly shocked to see there are a few comments below
that suggest her role is Oscar worthy, but really. her performance is
that good. And who doesn't like two hours with Mr. McDreamy?!
<|_=00=_|>
Combining elements of modern day Manhattan with romanticized fairy tale
settings, "Enchanted" tells the story of Giselle (Adams), your typical
Disney leading lady living in a cottage, singing with innocent
creatures, awaiting the day she would meet her prince charming. He
turns out to be Prince Edward (James Marsden), a dashing debonair who
happens to be the stepson of the wicked witch Queen Narissa (Susan
Sarandon). They meet, fall in love in a whim, and decide to marry the
next day.

Problem is, step-mom wouldn't allow anyone to take over her throne so
she poses as an old woman and pushes a clueless Giselle into a well
that transports to - ahem - our world, where her quixotic perspective
sets her apart from everyone else. Her city misadventures eventually
lead her to Robert (Patrick Dempsey), a divorce lawyer separated from
his wife and trying to raise his daughter Morgan (Rachel Covey) by
himself.

While awaiting to be rescued by her Prince Edward, Giselle bonds with
father and daughter, with him teaching her a thing or two about dating,
and her teaching him on the positive aspects of love.

While obviously an attempt to satirize the genre it carved its name on,
this Disney flick helmed by Kevin Lima does it in a way that's not in a
mocking manner as Dreamworks animated films usually are. Rather, they
are handled with affection that makes the fairy tale angle a rather
sweet and funny affair. The interweaving elements of live-action and
animation blend alright and don't feel unbalanced.

Of course, you can say that this movie really belongs to Adams, who
with her cheerful nature, makes it easy for one to feel for her
character by providing depth and giving an additional dimension to
Giselle. The supporting cast pale in comparison although they do have
their moments, especially Sarandon who easily hams it up during a
climactic event.

"Enchanted" doesn't necessarily mark a return of the old fairy tale
magic conspicuously absent in recent Disney films; but it has the
charms and clever wit - not to mention star Amy Adams bubbly charisma -
to win over audiences outside the target demographic.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Enchanted at the premiere on 20/10/2007 and I was really
pleasantly surprised. I had expected all the usual Disney trademarks to
be included; singing, animation, animals that talk, a prince and an
evil stepmother, all these was there but also so much more! I was not
expecting the film to be as funny as it was; it's packed with jokes;
quite a few were aimed at adults, so went over the children's heads,
but the weren't rude or distasteful enough to offend the children. This
film is an 'all rounder'; it contains all the Disney elements that
children and adults love, but also enough to humour to make it an
enjoyable comedy for the adults.

Amy Adams is brilliant as the innocent Giselle, she embodies everything
that a Disney character should; from her musical ensembles to her sunny
view of the world. Patrick Dempsey plays the cynical lawyer, who isn't
sure if Giselle has banged her head or is just crazy! James Marsden is
perfect as the classic Disney prince; suave and arrogant, while Susan
Sarandon obviously relishes being the evil witch. Timothy Spall plays
the bumbling, and occasionally annoying, side-kick, but he also
provides the basis for many of the jokes.

Disney knows what works, and have included many of their much-loved
formulas, but they haven't been afraid to venture away from their
traditional 'girl meets boy, they get married and live happily ever
after' narrative. And that's what really makes this film stand out. If
I were to sum up this film, I'd say 'a brilliant fusion'. It fuses
animation with actors, Andalasia with New York, pigeons with chipmunks,
Prince Charming with a Divorce Lawyer, humour with love, modern
dilemmas with traditional values and Disney past, with what I hope is
Disney future.

Definitely worth a watch, and the best part is, you won't even need to
use your children as an excuse to go!
