
Now I know that 'The Departed' is based off of the Hong Kong movie
'WuJianDao', but Scorsese really grabs hold of a great story and brings
it to the American Screen. My father grew up in Boston and when we
walked out of the theater he couldn't stop talking about how authentic
the environment and attitude was. Then there's the acting in which the
lead actors (Nicholson, DiCaprio, Damon) not only give stunningly
entertaining performances, but you become engulfed in each one's
perspective and dilemmas. The smaller roles that of (Baldwin, Walberg,
Sheen) are supporting roles that remind me of Jesus Quintana from 'The
Big Lebowski', by this I mean that their screen time is limited but
they make lasting impressions that you cherish each and every scene
they are in, Alec Baldwin especially. The story itself starts off with
the basic intro of the players and the setting, but you'll find
yourself slowing following each and every plot twist and rooting back
and forth for the good guys and for the bad guys. If you're a Scorsese
fan, which I am, I think you will appreciate this film. You can clearly
see the Scorsese touch ranging from the cinematography and of course
the music, it's great to hear "Gimme Shelter" again, but "Comfortably
Numb" played in so well. It's another gangster flick from Scorsese, yet
this one stands alone because feels so fresh and most would agree
Scorsese does gangster films the best; so why not let him. Oscar
worthy, the acting I certainly hope; this is DiCaprio's best role since
'The Aviator' which was his best role since 'Gangs of New York', am I
seeing a pattern here. But my lasting impression wasn't concerned with
the politics of the golden statue; my lasting impression was that I had
sat through 2 and half hours of brilliant and especially entertaining
storytelling. Thank you Mr. Scorsese.
<|_=00=_|>
Please don't make negative comments like some of the aforementioned
people have been doing if you haven't seen the film yet! I have seen
it, at a press screening last week. Not only is it the best film of the
year so far, it marks a return to form for Martin Scorsese, and ranks
with the likes of GOODFELLAS as being one of the best in his canon of
films.

I'm a fan of the Hong Kong film, INFERNAL AFFAIRS, upon which this is
based. While THE DEPARTED keeps the basic structure of the original, it
is very much its own movie, so much so that the screenwriter, William
Monahan, didn't even watch the original film while adapting its
screenplay, thus enabling him to infuse the script with his, and
Scorsese's, respective visions.

All the actors are first-rate (yes, even Leo, for all you DiCaprio
bashers out there), and turn in some of their best performances to
date. THE DEPARTED is sure to garner a host of Oscar nods, if not wins,
including (hopefully) Scorsese's long-overdue statuette for Best
Director. Plus, with actors like Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin playing
supporting roles, that says a lot about the quality of the film they
signed up for! THE DEPARTED is tough stuff, not for the faint-of-heart.
That said, it is a must-see for adult viewers who long for intelligent,
gritty stories to grace our movie screens once again.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I have seen Infernal Affairs (IA), I said to myself that
Hollywood would not pass up on a story like this. And true enough, I
heard Brad Pitt bought the rights to the show and that he and Tom
Cruise are slated to act in it. When I heard that the whole ensemble
changed, I still was looking forward to the film. IA, with a much
smaller budget, looks more expensive than The Departed (TD).

Character development -IA, is all about heart. It is about how the mole
in the police, Ming, is torn between his identity as a mole, and his
conscience, and the mole in the mafia/gangland, Yan, is torn between
doing right for the police and his own dilemma about his identity. Ming
is not bad, nor is Yan good. TD, like all other Hollywood cop movies,
is about black and white. Costigan is wholesomely good, and Sullivan is
utterly bad. Their characters are so one-dimensional, it's almost like
the screenwriter doesn't trust his audience to be intelligent enough to
know that good and evil are degrees of grey.

Timeframe - The time frame is just ridiculous in TD. Are we expected to
believe that in the short span of 4 months, Costigan is able to
infiltrate the mafia and become Costello's left hand man, given that
everyone (so 'cleverly' explained by Queenan) knows that he was a cop
and that Costello doesn't trust people easily? Are we also to believe
that Sullivan can rise through the ranks of the police force so fast,
considering that (also 'cleverly' explained by Ellerby) they don't
trust people with perfect records? In IA, it is a convincing many
years. Both characters are allowed to grow into their environment
enough to be torn. TD just throws it in our face.

Acting - How can people say that the acting is superb? Matt Damon
doesn't emote at all. Leo Dicarprio is so whiny, if he isn't whining to
Queenan, he is whining to the shrink, or Costello and Mr. French.
Martin Sheen is like a vase, so weak and wimpy, he doesn't have the air
befitting of a Captain. Mark Wahlberg's character, sarcastic as hell,
for what? It's a wonder that he is even there, he has no role to play
at all. An omission of his character wouldn't have made the movie any
less. The shrink sleeps with both Costigan and Sullivan, and we are
expected to feel sorry for her? And Jack Nicholson, so painful to
watch. Even the extras are so miscast-ed. The Mainland Chinese
characters are so obviously 3rd generation Cantonese speakers, with the
American accents, I am not a native Cantonese speaker and even I know
it's all wrong.

Screenplay - This has to be one of the worst screenplays ever.

a. Costello, if he is a big time gangland boss, and that he is dealing
with international crime lords, why is he and his right hand man still
going round the hood to collect protection money? The writers cannot
decide if he is a big-time crime lord or a smalltime mafia boss.

b. the time-line.

c. Costigan sends the tape to Madolyn, gets Sullivan to meet him at the
building Queenan died, and expects to do what? It is just a cheap shot
at trying to mirror IA's intelligent rooftop scene.

d. The fact that the cast says F*** every other second makes the movie
cheap and crude instead of realistic.

e. the subplots are so unnecessary and so poorly intertwined. The
double crossing of the mainland Chinese, the FBI informer subplot, the
letter that was never heard of again, the love triangle between moles &
shrink, the time in cadet school. All these subplots should be omitted,
then maybe the director can concentrate on the real story.

f. What's up with the ending? First Costigan is shot (Which is a ripped
off from the original), and then everyone else gets shot in the head
except Sullivan. Is there a need for all that gore? Or is it just cheap
thrill? And then Dignam kills Sullivan. Does Dignam have a great enough
agenda to do what he did? 

g. Did I mention that a lot of scenes of the movie are ripped off from
the original? Even the dialog of some of the scenes is directly
translated from the original. I read that the writer claims that he
didn't see the original. Is he trying to claim the great parts of the
movies as his own? Isn't that plagiarism? Which brings me to 

Production value - Scorsese bombed, big time. He has ran out of tricks,
the movie started out good, but the ending seemed so rushed, like he
has ran out of time, or interest. I love GoodFellas, and his style and
techniques at that time seem fresh and ingenious. But the second time
he used the pinhole effect in TD, I realize that Scorsese has ran out
of ideas. There are even scenes that he took from the original shot by
shot, making it seem like he cannot make his own out of the material.

Over all I am very MAD. MAD at the people who say this movie is
brilliant. It is brilliant only because the original is brilliant and
they had taken almost every element of it. I am MAD because of the
disregard of respect on the part of Scorsese's team, not giving the
credits when credits are due. Is he going to get an academy award for
something that is not his? Something that he so blatantly took from
someone else and did not even bother to credit? That would say a lot
about Hollywood and their disregard for anyone else. I am MAD at the
way the movie ended and I am just disappointed that the audiences are
treated like idiots and they don't know it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just came back from watching the movie so it's still fresh in my mind.
Overall the movie was good but it could have been shorter. Good movie
but nothing extraordinary, not a master-piece, not a classic. In this
period filled with really bad movies it's a movie you have to watch.

Some things are better than in the original (Infernal Affairs) like
character development. It is especially true for DiCaprio's character
(not really for other character). However the scene, when Wahlberg
cites all of DiCaprio's family connection to the mob, takes too much
time. They take a long time establishing how DiCaprio sells drugs with
his cousin and finally get into Nicholson's gang. However after that it
doesn't take long for Nicholson to give his total trust (in one year
and a half to two years), which bothered me. This takes the first hour
of the movie and i think it could have been cut by at least 20min.

Some scenes have a lot more impact in Infernal Affairs than in The
Departed. I'm gonna cite 3 scenes which are some of the most important
in the story in my opinion: 

-The death of Wong/Queenan: in IA, Wong falls suddenly, lands on a taxi
cab taking Yan by surprise. When Yan realizes Wong is dead you can feel
the suffering Yan goes through by the loss of the only person who knows
he's a cop but also/mainly by the loss of his friend. 

In The Departed we see Sheen falls in slow-mo until he hits the ground
in a splash of blood. There's absolutely no connection, no friendship
between DiCaprio and Sheen. We see DiCaprio almost on the verge of
crying. But Why ? He's not his friend and there's still Wahlberg to
prove he's a cop.

-The death of Sam/Costello: In IA, Ming seems to show a desire to
redeem himself and become a good man for his girlfriend. When he
confronts Sam in the parking lot during the raid, he kills Sam to
remove any evidence he's a mole and restart on a blank slate.

In The Departed, although Damon slightly mentions starting anew in
another city, when he kills Costello he does it just to cover his
a-s-s. Never after he seems like he might become good.

-The elevator and final scene: In IA, the meeting on the rooftop is
between two men on each side of the law but sharing so much in common.
You can even sense that Ming has some respect for Yan. There's no
violence until what happens in the elevator. When Yan dies you can see
Ming didn't want this to end like that. Yan's death is really
emotional, all sounds are drawn off and only an opera piece is playing.
When the second mole gets killed by Ming you only hear gunshots.

In The Departed The final scenes are a mess. Damon and DiCaprio just
hate each other's gut, the token black guy shows up, the 2nd mole shows
up and everybody executes everybody. They just stand there to get shot.
The scene seems really rushed.

And when Damon open his door at the end of the movie to see Wahlberg
waiting for him, it was the cherry on top of the cake. Everybody was
cracking up. How many shots to the head do we need to see ? Was it
really necessary to kill Damon and provide the audience with a happy
ending ? 

Although The Departed is a good movie I felt a lot more satisfied with
Infernal Affairs. They have very different feel to them. One is
over-the-top street violence while the other one is more subdued,
concise and nuanced.

For those who says that The Departed is way more psychological than IA
I would have to disagree. Infernal Affairs shows how two men struggle
to know what defines if they're good or bad. Is it their actions or
their allegiance to one side or the other of the law? In the end
they're really similar. Yan tells the Psy he's a cop and lift that
weight off his shoulder even if it's for just a second. Ming wants to
redeem himself and prove his girlfriend but also himself that he's not
that bad. Others before me have also commented on the buddhist notion
of eternal hell so I won't talk about it :) 

The Departed lacked in that department. There's no connection between
the two main characters except for the fact they are moles. They're
almost portrayed as black and white. Especially Damon who doesn't seem
to have any nuance. He's just bad till the end.

The Departed 8/10 Infernal Affairs 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent. A great, great movie. I saw it last night at a special
screening and must say it was a tour de force. Even though Boston is
not really a gritty town Scorsese was able to capture a darker side of
the city. Coming from that area, I am always concerned when actors put
on the local accent as it tends to be distracting rather than
supportive. However, with local pros like Damon and Wahlberg they were
able to really grab hold of it and not go overboard... most of the
time. The true stand out performance has to go to DiCaprio. He has
really come into his since hooking up with Scorsese, having scored a
number of original performances all of which have expanded his range.
He really snagged onto a deep and tragic character and created
something that will hopefully be recognized come awards season. One of
my favorite aspects was the friendly hostility the characters had for
each other. It is a specific trademark that I have never noticed in any
other city. In Boston, when you are really close with someone (or not
really) it is, more or less, a requirement to bust their balls and
shoot cruel insults back and forth in rhythmic banter. That detail was
extensively realized in THE DEPARTED and I doubt anybody who was raised
outside of the metro Boston area, or at least visited at some point,
would find it nearly as hilarious as those who were. As for Scorsese's
direction, I think he scored big with this one. While many have
criticized that his movies have become more commercial I believe that
he has just evolved. There were some classic Scorsese moments here, my
favorite being a scene where DiCaprio is alone and packing his things
in his apartment. Beautifully cut and stylistically directed. Is it his
best effort? No. But it still is truly mesmerizing. He has created
something truly special from a city that is highly underrated.
<|_=00=_|>
The Departed

The screenplay: Top Notch

The performances: all-star cast delivering all-star performances

The music: perfect

The Directing: Martin Scorsese at his finest and that is saying
something.

Once again Scorsese delivers a film that meets or exceeds the
expectations of its audience in nearly every way. There are moments of
incredible tension, violence, and drama, moments where characters
reveal their vulnerabilities and weakness. Comedic moments and moments
of sadness and through it all a multi layered and brilliant story is
told by an American film maker who once again proves Harvey Keitel
correct when he said, "Maybe he (Scorsese) got what he
deserves--exclusion from the mediocre." 

This film is Scorsese's finest work since Raging Bull, but it is not
simply about Martin Scorsese or the amazing screen play by William
Monahan, it is more than an amazing score, and great cinematography.
While many of the accolades for this film belong to those behind the
scenes people who envisioned and directed this film. One would be
remiss to not point out the great performances of an all-star cast,
many of whom deliver the finest performances of long and storied
careers. Martin Sheen, Alec Baldwin, Jack Nicholson, Leonardo DiCaprio
and Matt Damon deliver incredible performances. 

However the performance that stood out for me was Wahlberg, Mark
Wahlberg's Sgt. Dignam stole every scene he was in, and he shared
screen time with each of the afore mentioned actors. He gets to deliver
some of the best lines, and with every scene he leaves the audience
wanting more, and anticipating his next scene.

Since The Academy has had its collective heads stuck  for so long,
mentioning a Scorsese picture and Oscar in the same sentence seems to
be a waste of time. That being said I can not say if he will finally
win the Oscar that he has deserved for so long, as his major
competition (Flags of our Fathers) has yet to be released, I will say
that I expect to see Wahlberg nominated for best supporting, and Leo
and Damon will be pitted against one another once more, this time for
best actor, Monahan will be nominated for writing, and of course
Scorsese will be nominated for director. Also, it goes without saying a
best picture nomination will be in order for The Departed.

That was the long version; the short version is if you like a movie
with incredible performances, direction, music and visuals. If you like
a layered story that is not formulaic, in short if you appreciate film
making and story telling at its finest then see this film. Even with
the glowing reviews of myself and others, and the high expectations
they will undoubtedly bring I assure you that you will not be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Idiots often say this: "Oh, yes, it's very good for Hollywood I
suppose, but not a patch on the Uruguayan original." Well smack me in
the face and call me an idiot, 'cos the 2002 Hong Kong crime thriller
Infernal Affairs (Mou gaan dou) is aeons better than the
Scorsese-directed, all-star Hollywood remake.

The original was 100 minutes long and so taught you could probably play
it like banjo strings. Several of the scenes were filmed with such
artistry that they set a new standard in beautifully realised
intensity. The plotting was tight, the acting pitch-perfect, and you
really felt for the protagonists.

It was, in short, the best cops and robbers thriller anyone had seen in
years.

So of course it had to be remade.

Enter Scorsese, Nicholson, DiCaprio, Damon, Sheen, Baldwin et al.

What results is bloated competence.

The set-pieces from Infernal Affairs remain, but are slacker and less
well-handled. People in the cinema were laughing where they should have
been clutching their heart to keep it in their chest.

The precision camera-work gives way to run-of-the-mill shots. Consider
the sloppy execution of the rooftop fall.

The film is considerably longer without any real cause (bar, perhaps,
Nicholson's hammy imperative to overplay any role he takes on). Witness
the affair storyline, which is an unnecessary sop to the need for a
more prominent female role, or the FBI addition, which is completely
superfluous.

The end result is simply a lot weaker than the tightly-budgeted,
tightly-edited, subtler original.

The only improvement  and I shudder to say this  is Alec Baldwin's
role as the wise-cracking police captain, which made me chuckle on many
occasions.

Get the original out instead. Please. You won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing this, I knew I was in for a treat, given that it's a
Scorsese movie, but The Departed was even better than I expected.

The acting is outstanding. Leonardo DiCaprio gives what is quite
possibly the best performance of his career. Even the people who hate
him admit he did a good job. It's turned some haters into fans and my
brother who despises him even says he was great. Matt Damon and Jack
Nicholson give their best performances since The Talented Mr. Ripley
and As Good As It Gets. Mark Wahlberg almost steals the show with the
best lines. Ray Winstone, Alec Baldwin, and Martin Sheen are good, too.

Definitely one of the best films of the 00's. And easily one of the
best remakes of all time. It's intense, funny, exciting, suspenseful,
superbly acted, violent, has great characters, and has one of the most
shocking scenes I've ever seen. And there's not a boring moment in it's
two and a half hour running time. 

The film will most likely be nominated for picture, director and
adapted screenplay, and in my opinion, it deserves all three of them.
DiCaprio and Wahlberg also deserve nominations.

See this as soon as you can.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, due to all the hype I went to see this one with great
expectations, although I must admit without having seen the parent film
Infernal Affairs. What a let down ! Setting the scene is great, and
time taken to achieve this is well spent, but for me the film started
to drag, with expectation and patience well run out by the time the
plot strands began coming together. Yes, Jack Nicholson is a great
actor, but no he didn't convince me in the role, even though most of
the good lines and deliveries were his. But Boston Irish ? Everyone,
including the deliverer of the line "I'm Irish & can live with
something wrong the rest of my life...." failed to convince me of Irish
lineage. The accents, the faces, the attitudes were all wrong for souls
in torment over doing what they believe they have to do, a basic for
Irish/Catholic guilt and angst. 

The film would have been much stronger with unknowns in several key
positions, and for me once the disparate strands were established the
rest of the film was very predictable and I wasn't kept guessing -
crucial if we are to suspend disbelief and have pressure and tension
build in the viewer.

DeCaprio fails to convince as a tough guy, despite the convincing
scars. He stills comes across as an adolescent fuming after his pocket
money's been withheld. Matt Damon looks like an awkward schoolboy, and
was even less convincing than DeCaprio about being a cop. Mark Wahlberg
sounded like he'd been taught to swear the week before, Martin Sheen
was as hard bitten as a kitten and there were so many operational goofs
the film became a comedy. A Federal agent running a State operation
against his own informer? What a waste of time and budget monies. Only
two people knowing about an undercover operation? BULL! Keep sending an
undercover back after his nerve's gone ? Garbage ! Permanently deleting
a full record (on a State Police computer no less!) without possibility
of recovery ? Unbelievable - even children know data can be restored,
and the system will keep a record of who deleted the information. For
me, the film became a joke and I couldn't wait for the end to arrive so
I could leave. By the time the end plays arrived and new players were
falling like flies, the audience was laughing out loud at the inanity.
Once again, Hollywood takes a good story and ruins it with poor
crafting, no matter how well filmed. Very bad casting, a rushed and
unfulfilling ending, far too much gore, not enough character substance,
one dimensional players and an insult to the viewers intelligence.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, this is an American stylized remake of the Hong Kong hit,
Infernal Affairs. I have to give credit to that, a good film. I have
seen both Infernal Affairs and The Departed. I personally prefer The
Departed, and I think because of one thing: Martin Scorsese. This is
the master behind such greats as Taxi Diver, Raging Bull, Goodfellas,
and he's at it again. The film has an all star cast with Leonardo
DiCaprio, Matt Damon, Jack Nicholson, Mark Wahlberg, Martin Sheen, and
Alec Baldwin.

The Direction was amazing. (maybe one of the reasons why he won the
Oscar for it) I loved how some of the scenes were shot and set up.
Especially regarding the Chinatown, and police interrogation scenes,
among many others. The film is perfectly set up with intense, suspense
scenes while adding in amounts humor at times. It works really well.
The script is top notch. (Also Oscar winning) Realistic strong dialogue
from scene to scene.

Another thing I liked more in The Departed, as opposed to Infernal
Affairs, was the acting. DiCaprio really seemed to earn a lot of
respect from this role. Here, he takes on the tough guy persona so
well. Sure it was known he was a good actor from his Oscar nominated
performances in What's Eating Gilbert Grape and The Aviator, but he
really takes it to another level here. I can't see anyone else as the
character, he fits so perfectly with it. Matt Damon and Mark Wahlberg,
being Massachusetts natives, also give solid performances, with their
natural accents. Nicholson works well in his role, as well. Everyone
was extremely solid and everything seemed so real.

Set in Boston, The Departed takes in all the Boston like atmosphere.
Beautifully shot scenes of the Massachusetts Golden Dome State Capital
building is just one part of the landscape. The Dropkick Murphys song
"I'm Shipping up to Boston" really fits, great use of songs. Scorsese
usually works music into his films really well.

"Cops or Criminals. When you're facing a loaded gun what's the
difference?" This quote really represents the film." Matt Damon plays a
state officer in the Police, working for the crime boss of the area,
Frank Costello (Nicholson). While Damon's character can be described as
a "bad guy," he is really misunderstood. As a kid, he is sort of
mentored into crime business by Costello while Costello becomes the
father figure Damon's character never had. Leonardo DiCaprio plays a
young guy, coming from a bad, crime ridden family. He's decides to
become a police officer to get away from the crime life he's been
surrounded by. Taking all this into account, Captain Queenen (Sheen)
and Seargent Dignam (Wahlberg) decide to send DiCaprio's character
undercover to find out more about the criminal underworld and Costello.
With his family's crime record, he fit's perfectly into the situation.
Now you have a highly ranked officer working for bad guy, and an
undercover cop in the criminal underworld working for the State Police.
From here it's an all out suspenseful thrill ride. Who's who? Who's
working for who? Who can you trust? Paranoia threatens everyone. Lies.
Betrayal. Sacrifice. How far will you take it? 

At the heart of this film is character development. We really feel for
the characters. We feel like we know them. It's really amazing part of
this story and film. Tremendous story telling here.

This is one of the most entertaining and suspenseful crime/drama's I
have seen in a while. While Infernal Affairs, came first, I think The
Departed expands on it in so many ways. Really solid crime/drama. Check
both out when you get a chance. It's really worth it. 9/10
