
I watched a screening of this movie and loved it. I wasn't sure whether
to expect a children's movie or adult movie, and it came out to be more
like the latter. I grew up reading & watching "Goosebumps", and this
movie made me feel like I was watching a "Goosebumps" film tailored for
adults.

John C. Reilly does a really great job acting; it's nice to see him do
something more challenging again. If you are turned off by his work in
movies like Walk Hard, Talladega Nights, etc., give him a chance in
this movie. He really impressed me. Patrick Fugit was my favorite actor
in the film; his character was visually an eyesore but also in some odd
way incredibly adorable. And Chris Massoglia, of course, was a great
lead actor. 

I would watch this film again when it officially comes out in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of the vampire books by Irish writer Darren Shan I wasn't
particularly looking forward to seeing Cirque du Freak: A vampire's
assistant. Sometimes you should let a book be a book. And judging by
the movie trailers the casting looked all wrong and the main character
seemed too boring and too American to my taste. But in the end
curiosity won and I went to see it anyway.

The vampire saga of Darren Shan consists of 12 books (four trilogies)
and aims at kids aged 11-14. None other than JK Rowling was a big fan
of this series so comparisons to Harry Potter were made very soon. What
the two series have in common is the scope of the story. The tale of
Darren Shan also has a Voldemort and a big (but very misty) showdown
(in the last book). Like Harry Potter Darren Shan is drawn into a
mysterious but exciting new world. Both teenagers must learn to control
their power and learn the ways of being a new sort of being (wizard or
vampire). So obviously there is a connection. 

The movie is loosely based on the first trilogy, Vampire Blood. Darren
Shan is an ordinary 16 year old teenager with a big fascination for
spiders. One day he and his best friend Steve go to a real freakshow,
where they meet vampire Larten Crepsley. Steve wants to become a
vampire because his life stinks anyway. But Crepsley decides to chose
Darren as his vampire student. So Darren fakes his death and moves to
the camping ground of the Cirque du Freak. He befriends a snake boy, a
monkey girl and a woman with a beard and tries to go on with his
(vampire) life. But he soon finds out that the vampire world is on the
brink of a full scale war between vampires (the kind that only drinks
human blood and takes what it needs) and the Vampaneze (vampires who
kill the humans they drink from). And somehow both parties think that
Darren is destined to play a big part in this war

Watching this movie I tried to forget all the things I knew from the
books. And yes, this movie experience turned out to be a very enjoyable
one.

Chris Massoglia (The Hole) looked miscast at first as Darren Shan. But
as the story progresses you can see why he was chosen. His innocence
works very well and you can see him develop into the hero he will one
day be. In my imagination Larten Crepsley was more serious than the one
given us by actor John C. Reilly (Chicago ). But I did enjoy his
version of the experienced vampire mentor in the movie. But to me Josh
Hutcherson (Journey to the centre of the earth) was best cast as Steve.
Steve hates the world and his character will play a major part in the
rest of the story (= other books). There's a lot of evil in Steve, but
in this movie it remains at the surface. Sort of. As fans of the books
all know, he's capable of doing much more damage.

The pace of the movie is pretty good: there's a lot to be told here.
There's a lot of humour in it (the books were pretty serious) and the
voice-over by Darren Shan works very well. Especially the first 20
minutes (with the actual freakshow) were well done. Salma Hayek looks
stunning with beard and actually gets more screen time than in the
books. Too bad her acting isn't always that convincing. Ken Watanabe is
a great Mr. Tall, the boss of Cirque du Freak. He gives the movie a
great mysterious quality.

Okay, then the bad things. Sometimes the acting and action scenes were
bad. Some of the effects looked fake. And the fact that it all ended
with an ordinary rumble was a disappointment. The ending seemed very
rushed. But what really let me down were the mysterious Mr. Tiny and
his army of Little People. In the books Mr. Tiny is a cold hearted man
who's so scary and powerful that every word he uses can be felt as a
dagger in your heart. But in the movie he's just a silly old bald man
who talks too much. His army of Little People  Jawa like creatures he
raised from the dead  seemed too computer generated and looked like a
pitiful low-budget effort to imitate Gollum. Too bad.

But overall I really enjoyed Cirque du Freak: The Vampire's Assistant.
It's a good introduction to the vampire world of Darren Shan and I
sincerely hope that the movie will be so successful that there will be
a part 2. Because when Darren, Crepsley and Little Creature Harkat
travel to Vampire Mountain , that's when the real fun begins!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was actually very entertaining. I didn't expect much going
in but I actually liked the story. While I thought it was going to be a
Twilight ripoff, I think it actually made in fun of Twilight a little
bit--which made for great fun. The acting was better than expected. I
was especially surprised by John C. Reilly. I absolutely loved his
character! I agree with others when I say that it's actually refreshing
to see him in a more serious role. The movie was interesting, unique,
caring, and humorous. I definitely recommend seeing the movie. I think
it's going to be a great series. I look forward to seeing the next
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Unable to understand the low ratings that critics are giving this film.
From the dazzling and witty opening credits through the delightful cast
and story line, this film delivers great visuals, charm and one of John
C. Reilly's best performances to date! A little disappointed that we
didn't see enough of Willem Dafoe, But Salma Hayek was charming! Young
adults will enjoy the freak show characters and vampire storyline;
older viewers will get a kick out of the humor and identifying actors
from other films. I haven't read the books, but I sure would love to
see what happens on the next day as the film comes to a close. FOLLOW
YOUR HEART, FORGET THE NAY-SAYERS AND SEE THIS FILM WHILE YOU CAN!
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie at Fantastic Fest in Austin. I really loved it.
Unlike the Potter movies, it succeeds in being dark without taking
itself too seriously. The characters were rich, the acting superb, and
the pace was neither frantic nor plodding, but just right. John C.
Reilly was excellent -- he had a very powerful presence that I'd not
really noticed before.

I haven't read the books, but the actors said the books' author also
loved the movie. I realize movies rarely live up to readers' ideals,
but this movie really stood on its own merits. There was a lot of
dark/sarcastic humor (one-liners, mostly) in the movie that I
understand wasn't in the books -- and it really worked. Unlike the
Harry Potter books, I'm anxious to read these due to my appreciation of
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
My tween-age daughter has become a fan of all things vampire thanks to
the "Twilight" books and films, so she asked me to take her to see this
movie, even though it's based on a different series.

Although "Cirque du Freak" shows its "young adult" target audience, it
was not as bad as many teen-oriented films I have seen. It had an
interesting, if simplistic, storyline, and was effectively filmed. I
agree with the comments that especially commend the Freak Show scene as
an early high point, but the rest of the story moved along at about the
right pace, and I never found myself bored.

I'm told the teen lead was very attractive, but he's not much of an
actor. His evil counterpart, played by Josh Hutcherson of "RV," was
somewhat better. I'm not a real John Reilly fan, but he did a good job
in his leading role. Willem Dafoe was wasted playing, essentially, a
vampire version of John Waters. I would hope that Ken Watanabe and
Salma Hayek would have a bit more to do in future installments. Ditto
Orlando Jones, who hasn't done much since the horrible "Evolution"
nearly killed his career. I also hope the character of Mr. Tiny is
written better in the future; this guy was a pain to watch, and came
off more like a sweaty pedophile than a supernatural referee or
whatever the hell he was supposed to be.

Parents: nothing to worry about here. I'm not even sure how it came in
at PG-13, unless there was some mild profanity sprinkled in that I
don't remember. This might be a little complicated for little ones, but
ages 8 and over shouldn't be scared by anything they see here. Best of
all, it's not too painful for adults to watch if you must. Then again,
I'm a veteran of the Pokemon movies; I've been to movie hell, so I can
sit through anything now.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is quite entertaining, I think several scenes in the movie
are much more successfully handled as in book itself. (I am only
familiar with book one, yet.) So, I liked the way as scriptwriters
anticipate some future elements of the story: for example by the sudden
visions of Madame Truska or by bringing forth the character of Gavner
-played by the always excellent Williem Dafoe- into this "prelude"
movie. I have also very like that smiling facial expression performed
by John C. Reilly by the end of the move (for this small gesture
prefigured that affectionate relationship and love that Larten will
feel toward his assistant, Darren. I liked the scenes with the Snake
Boy, Evra, who is much for significant character in the movie than in
Book 1 (particularly in the pompous Circus-scene of the movie). I big
fight between Larten and Murlaugh in the cemetery was just great The
flaws are (I mention here only a few): Darren's relationship with his
parents is depicted in a very stereotypical way in the picture (I know,
the parents here are just background-figures, but still) I have also
missed the scenes with the tarantella, Madame Octa. The scene: stealing
of Octa by Darren is extremely weak, and not excited at all. The
special telepathic relationship between the spider and its trainer in
not explained or discussed in the movie at all, and the filmmakers
omitted some of the most interesting "kunst" Octa capable of (like the
wet spinned on Lartens mouth, etc.) Octa was not controlled by the
voice of the flute, that was just a secondary thing!! But she was
controlled by human thoughts in the book!! Performances: Male actors
steal the show. I especially like the performance by Michael Cerveris
as Mr. Tiny. The acting of John C. Reilly (as Larten Crepsley) was a
very-very pleasant surprise for me. I can congratulate from the
casting-director and for the producers of their choice. Jessica Carlson
(in the role of the monkey-girl, Rebecca) was charming and natural-
including her tail  The CGI: unfortunately nothing special, or
"revolutunary new", just the usual good-level work. The
Cinematography/Lightning: excellent choice for the the basic
mood/atmosphere of the movie. The colors and tones are quite vivid, not
so digitally soft and pale like in the trend today in fantasy movies
(like in the last HP for example). This braver, more intense coloring
was good for Cirque du Freak. I must praise the work of Tom Woodruff
Jr. and his faithful partner: the "monster-costumes", and make
up-effects were absolutely perfect!

In my opinion: It was a good start. I think that this movie desires the
love of younger audiences, and also hope the studio-moguls will give a
chance for the makers for continue this franchise after this start.

My rating: 7.5 (out of 10).
<|_=00=_|>
CDF is arguably my favorite book series of all time, so I really tried
to go into this with an open mind. Judging on it's own merits, I would
rate the movie a 4 or 5: barely worth watching until the end, but not
quite bad enough to bring back to Blockbuster before it's over. Judging
it as an interpretation of the books, it doesn't even deserve a 1. Rule
#1: if you're making a movie out of a series of popular books, you need
to keep more than the characters names. And that is about all they left
the same. Mannerisms, appearances, plot, everything was changed. Even
the tagline for the movie is wrong, because the vampires in this series
aren't immortal.

The plot is about what you'd get if you threw the first 3 books of the
series into a blender, dumped that into a tank of starved, ravenous
sharks, then let all of histories greatest sushi chefs ginsu it until
nothing recognizable remained. One thing that keeps popping up: YES
this is a vampire movie, but NO, Twilight fans, this series was around
for about a decade before the solar-powered disco balls ruined vampire
fiction for us all.

John C. Reilly gives probably the best performance in the film. While a
good bit different than described in the books, his portrayal of Mr.
Crepsley was at least entertaining to watch. William Dafoe appears for
all of about 5 minutes as the supposed-to-be battle hardened veteran
vampire Gavner Purl, except Dafoe looks and vaguely acts like John
Waters. Ken Watanabe is merely decent as the circus owner, Mr. Tall.
Michael Cerveris' character, Desmond Tiny, is supposed to be the
embodiment of cold, bone chilling evil, but comes across as the
flamboyant uncle you try to avoid at family reunions. I have nothing to
say about Salma Hayek, who is there for eye candy first, and plot
significance second. Finally, Ray Stevenson almost comes off as
menacing as the villain Murlough, even though the character is supposed
to have dark purple skin and glowing red eyes, hair, lips and nails,
but following the source material is for squares Daddy-O! 

But Chris Massoglia, playing the lead role, literally could not have
been worse. I've used this analogy before, but I have seen corpses show
more emotion than this kid. In a scene when he has to fake his own
death(undoubtedly causing his family and loved ones incredible pain and
suffering, mind you) he acts as if he could be going to a pizza parlor
for dinner. In the books, Darren is an impulsive hothead. In the film,
Massoglia could have been replaced with a Bozo the Clown blow up doll
and you would have seen more emotion (at least the doll would smile).
Yeah, yeah, one could argue that he's young and inexperienced, but I
don't buy that. I've known first time actors, many of whom were much
younger than Massoglia, do much better jobs than he did. Hell, Anna
Paquin won an Oscar when she was 12! If there is any justice in the
world, Chris Massoglia will never work again and Edward Norton will
finally win an Oscar.

I did get one brief laugh towards the end though, when Reilly was
fighting Ray Stevenson's character, and that was only because in the
books Darren remarks on how short their fight was (supposed to be)
because "they weren't trying to please action-hungry audiences", when
the fight scene was nothing but spectacle filled, drawn out filth
attempting to do just that.

If you would like an emotionally driven, decently written vampire saga,
read the Cirque du Freak books. If you'd like to see a book-film
adaptation so bad that some electricity might actually refuse to power
it, watch this movie.

2/10, and that's me being generous.
<|_=00=_|>
It's very easy these days to dismiss any film based on a successful
young adult book series as just a studio's attempt to throw something
up against the wall that could effectively begin a franchise and seeing
if it sticks. You have every right to be suspicious of that, based upon
the number of fantasy books that have tried it and been mostly
unsuccessful - The Seeker, The Golden Compass, Narnia, The Spiderwick
Chronicles, The Bridge to Terabithia, Eragon, and the list could go on
and on and on. I mean, let's be honest. When you see the trailer for
Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief and realize that the
same guy that kick-started the Harry Potter franchise is directing it,
you kind of feel like the studios are really getting desperate to try
to launch something new in the genre to continue to milk it. Almost
like their trying to get lightning (pun intended) to strike twice or
more times in the same place. I'm sure that's what everyone is thinking
about this adaptation of Darren Shan's Cirque du Freak series of books.

It probably doesn't help that the movie features vampires that don't
have fangs and seem to have an Interview with a Vampire theme of the
main bloodsucker not wanting to kill humans and be a good guy. Believe
me, I'm getting tired of that just as much as you are. But that's
pretty much where the comparisons end here. All the other vampire's
featured in the film definitely have a lust for human blood and the
main bad guy, Murlough, actually files his teeth into fangs. This is
also not just a story about fighting vampires. Yes, the main conflict
in the film is between two groups of the bloodthirsty undead, but there
are many different types of characters that we run into on our way
through the film. You've got Patrick Fugit as a snake-boy, Salma Hayek
as a bearded lady with psychic powers, Tom Woodruff, Jr. as the
Wolfman, Orlando Jones as a guy with his skin missing and his ribs
exposed, and an extremely evil fellow that seems to play everyone
against each other to get what he wants named Mr. Tiny. He seems to
have some kind of bizarre magical powers that weren't completely
explained.

Just with the names above, you can see that there was no expense spared
in pulling together a pretty impressive ensemble cast. Then add to that
Willem Dafoe as a rather eccentric acting vampire and a very unexpected
John C. Reilly as the freak show vampire Larten Crepsley. Reilly really
delivers in the role, being witty and slightly scary in the as
Crepsley. He almost veers completely off his normal path of the idiot
friend or relative that he has paved for himself by being in
Stepbrothers, Talladega Nights, and Walk Hard. The reason I say almost
is he still retains a sense of humor, but just not THAT kind of humor.

The film does a really good job of staying dark and not compromising
what I feel the director was trying to accomplish with the atmosphere
and adaptation by watering it down and making it overly "safe" for
tweens and a younger audience. The villains, Mr. Tiny and Murlough,
have a lot to do with the dark tone of the film. They are both quite
frightening and detestable to look at. There's also some more
adult-oriented language that you don't usually get in these types of
movies.

Sometimes, it sort of feels like the director and writers had to
"paraphrase" or shove in some little parts to fit them in to the film.
Sort of like something was going to be important to mention in this one
if there ever is a sequel. You could really feel it at the end, as it
seemed like they were giving you visual footnotes for something that
could be coming in the future.

I found Cirque du Freak: The Vampire's Assistant to be a pretty
enjoyable film. It had a darkly comic and sarcastic vibe that many of
the films based on these types of books seem to miss. I haven't read
every book of every film that has been made from a young-adult series,
but this movie definitely seemed to be rooted a little bit more in the
reality and attitude of teenagers and the way they act and live
together. Will this be one of those times where the movie will make
enough money for the studio to kick off a new franchise? Who knows.
Odds are against it, but you can never stop hoping.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty good movie based of the books by Darren Shan. I have
read all 12 books and I was highly anticipating this movie. Even
thought I liked this film, I was slightly disappointed that there were
so many changes to the film. The producers said that this film was from
Books 1-3, but it seemed like only Book 1.

This film is about two friends who are invited to the Cirque Du Freak.
After the show, one friend Darren Shan steals a spider. After the
spider mortally wounded his friend he asks for an antidote. But the
only way to do that would to give up his humanity.

I was surprised to see John C. Reilly as Mr. Crepsley. He doesn't seem
to fit that role. He's never that serious. Well, he did an excellent
job. Mr. Tiny is one creepy guy. He is someone that no one would want
to cross with.

I am surprised to see how many people compare this to Twilight. The
only similarities is that both movies/books have vampires. In fact, the
Cirque du Freak book series were published before the Twilight series.
Anyway, this is a good movie even though it's somewhat different from
the books. I rate this film 8/10.
