
Prior to this release, Neil LaBute had this to say about the 1973
original: "It's surprising how many people say it's their favorite
soundtrack. I'm like, come on! You may not like the new one, but if
that's your favorite soundtrack, I don't know if I *want* you to like
my film." 

Neil, a word. You might want to sit down for this too; as Lord
Summerisle says, shocks are so much better absorbed with the knees
bent. See, Neil, the thing about the original, is that Paul Giovanni's
soundtrack is one of the most celebrated things about it. The
filmmakers themselves consider it a virtual musical. Along with Richard
and Danny Thompson, and Bert Jansch, it practically kick-started the
1970s Folk New Wave. To undermine it is akin to imagining Jaws without
John Williams. Or The Buddy Holly Story without Buddy Holly. The
result's one of the most breathtakingly arrogant, pointless remake of a
British cult classic since Sly Stallone's Get Carter.

The original had apparently left Nicolas Cage "disturbed for about two
weeks." So disturbed, during that fortnight's window, that he pitched
the idea of re-imagining one of the most nuanced films about
inter-faith struggle ever devised to a writer-director previously known
for his wholly unsubtle depictions of male chauvinism. It's like some
parlor game: what would you get if Sam Peckinpah took on Bambi? Or
Gaspar "Irreversible" Noe remade Love, Actually?(Actually, I'd quite
like to see that). Unfortunately, someone took this parlor game
seriously: All LaBute's succeeded in doing is ripping out the
original's guts while saddling it with his own gormless Sex War
preoccupations.

After failing to rescue a little girl and her mum from a fatal car
crash, Cage's highway patrolman spirals into a medicated torpor. Then
he receives a letter from ex-fiancée Willow Woodward (this one trades
on name-homages for kudos), now living on the private island community
of Summersisle  that extra 's' stands for 'superfluous'  and wants
Edward to help locate missing daughter Rowan.

Summersisle, it transpires, is a female-dominated joint, conceived as a
haven for oppressed womenfolk and refugees from the Salem witch trials.
Here, the matriarchs observe the Olde ways, and the few males are
near-mute breed-mules. It's like Lilith Fair on a grand scale.
Summersisle's main export is honey  a symbolic and literal headache
for Edward, as he's allergic to bees. "Beekeepers!" cries Edward. "They
seem to be everywhere on this island!" Well, that's probably because
Summersisle's main export is honey.

While making his investigations, Edward overhears of an oncoming Mayday
ritual called "the time of death and rebirth". He discovers the
previous year's crop failed; nearly dies from bee stings; and
eventually comes to the conclusion (a conclusion which admittedly
couldn't be more obvious if the locals had tattooed a timetable of
events on the back of his hands) that Rowan will be burnt alive in a
pagan rite to ensure a bountiful harvest. He also meets the Queen Bee
of the hive, Sister Summersisle (Burstyn), who has her own plans for
him involving the eponymous Wicker Man: "The drone must die." 

First, the good news: any concerns Cage would be airlifted from the
Wicker Man's flaming jaws at the last minute by a fleet of black CIA
helicopters can be laid to rest: he toast. That's about it for the good
news. "This is a story whose chapters were carefully written" intones
Burstyn with sublime irony. Though retaining the basic cat-and-mouse
premise (and credits typography), what's left subjects the original to
a scorched-earth policy.

Crucial to Shaffer's original screenplay was that his Christian copper,
in accordance with ritual, came to the island of his own free will 
and most importantly, was a virgin; the perfect sacrifice. In reducing
matters to a sexual, as opposed to a religious power-struggle, LaBute
presents the flimsiest of qualifiers for a harvest sacrifice. By the
time Cage has worked out he was the bait, you honestly couldn't care
less.

And Cage is one of the very worst things in this; a lumbering, drawling
donkey  an arsewit whose tongue seems just slightly too big for his
mouth. "Goddamit" he moans after he hallucinates a drowned Rowan, with
all the mental torment of a man who's set his morning alarm clock
half-an-hour too early. One hopes it's his character's frequent
reliance on pills that has reduced him to this state  alternately
fatigued, then full of preppy, overbearing vim. If so, it's a fine
portrayal of an undistinguished IQ addled with anti-depressants. If
notit doesn't bear thinking about. As Willow, the saucer-eyed Beahan
is similarly dreadful, presenting her lines as if in competition with
Cage for themosthalf-hearteddelivery. While Burstyn entirely lacks
the mercurial menace to convince. Who's afraid of Naomi Wolf? 

Every element that made the original great  the lovingly detailed
depictions of folk customs, the ingenious score, the dialogue (Lord
Summerisle's majestic "You did it beautifully!" has been replaced with
the rather less attractive "You did it excellently!" Whoah, dude!) 
have been substituted for a meandering battle-of-the-sexes thriller
with occasional crash-bang wallop. Namely, walloping women; this is a
LaBute flick, after all. Cage's Sister Beech bashing is just one of the
more embarrassing episodes; impotent little men will be hooting with
glee at how them uppity hippie chicks finally got what was comin' to
'em, hyuk hyuk.

The closing coda sees the whole rotten mess collapsing under the weight
of genre cliché: in a bar, two guys run into a couple of Summersisle
maidens on shore leave, flirty-fishing for fresh martyrs. At the moment
of their successful pick-up, you half expect the women to turn round
and give an exaggerated wink and a thumbs up to the camera.

One more thing: keen credit watchers may have noticed that films
sporting an unusually high producer count (anything up to 10) tend to
be Not Much Cop. The Wicker Man has 18 producers in total.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is the biggest waste of nine dollars that I've spent in a
very, very long time. If you knew how often I went to the movies you'd
probably say, that's hard to imagine, but never-the-less, it's true!
After seeing the trailer for this movie, I knew that I had to see it!
If you're a fan of horror, mystery, and suspense, why wouldn't you? The
trailer is nothing less than intriguing and exciting; unfortunately,
the movie is none of these.

From the cinematography, to the script, to the acting, this movie is a
complete flop. If you're reading this, planning to go to the movie
expecting some thrills, mystery, action, horror, or anything other than
a waste of an hour and forty-five minutes I'm afraid you are in for
disappointment.

"Why is it so bad," you might be asking yourself. Let me tell you. The
movie was neither mysterious nor suspenseful. Nothing about the movie
made me the least bit "on edge," frightened, or curious. The script was
at best laughable. There were numerous times throughout the film where
the dialogue was just so ridiculous I began to write it off as comic
relief only to find out a few seconds later that it wasn't. The acting
was absolutely dreadful. I like Nicholas Cage but this was a miss.
Without exception, every performance in this movie was incredibly below
average. The cinematography was awful with not one moment of suspense
or mystique. Finally, the story is completely transparent. You can see
the end of this movie coming a mile away.

I am not usually a very harsh critic. Frankly, when I go to see a
comedy I want to laugh and when I go to see a mystery/suspense/horror,
I just want to be surprised. This movie was boring, poorly acted,
poorly written, and an overwhelming disappointment. Do yourself a favor
and go see something else.
<|_=00=_|>
The Wicker Man. I am so angry that I cannot write a proper comment
about this movie.

The plot was ridiculous, thinly tied together, and altogether-just
lame. Nicolas Cage...shame on you! I assumed that since you were in it,
that it would be at least decent. It was not.

I felt like huge parts of the movie had been left on the cutting room
floor, and even if it's complete-the movie was just outlandish and
silly.

At the end you're left mouth agape, mind befuddled and good taste
offended. I have never heard so many people leave a theater on opening
day with so much hatred. People were complaining about it in small
groups in the mall, four floors down from the theater near the
entrance. It's that bad.

I heard it compared to : Glitter, American Werewolf in Paris and Gigli.
My boyfriend was so mad he wouldn't even talk about it.

Grrrr!
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, this movie does no credit whatsoever to the original.
Nicholas Cage, fairly wooden as far as actors go, imbues the screen
with a range of skill from, non-plussed to over the top. The supporting
cast is no better.

The plot stays much the same as the original in terms of scene
progression but is far worse. Not enough detail is given to allow the
audience to by into what is being sold. It turns out it's just a bill
of poor goods. Disbelief cannot be suspended, nor can a befit of a
doubt be given. The only saving aspect of this film is that it is
highly visual, as the medium requires, and whomever scouted the
location should be commended.

There was much laughter in the audience and multiple boos, literally,
at the end.

Disappointed! Wait for the original to come on television, pour a
whiskey and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't seen the original, but just wanted to drop a quick note to
anyone who happens to scroll down this far: Wicker Man is the worst
movie I've seen this year. Maybe even in two years. I wish I could ask
the theater for my money back or turn back time to warn myself not to
see it.

I'll give it two positive nods: The sarcasm of Cage's character at
least got some laughs from me and the scenery of the island was
beautiful. Sorry, that's it. Here come the jeers. The movie's plot is
only propelled forward because other characters won't give Cage any
straight answers--and he puts up with this!!! How this could go on for
over an hour of my time(much less days in the movie) is beyond me. 

Not to mention that the plot is full of holes. You leave the theater
with enough unanswered questions to fill a library. How anyone could
read this script and think, "Yes, people should pay $11 to see this
shady outline of what a film should look like" is beyond me.

Do not go see this flick. Or even rent it on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone not aware of the 1973 original British Lion movie ' The Wicker
Man' would,no doubt, have left the cinema with the impression 'Poor'
and 'Peurile'.

As a devotee of the original I left with the impression Purely Poor.

From the grim reality of haggle toothed inbreds drawing the force of
law and order into a web of paganistic barbaric ritual on a remote
Scottish island, named Summerisle(the original) to a near Amazon-ic
colony off the Maine coast of the US, named Summersisle, the remake
hardly hits the spot.

This is, quite sadly, a case of what 'could' have been a classic remake
of a classic being tampered with to cater for a simple minded public.
NOTHING MORE AND NOTHING LESS. 

Gentlemen (or given the reworked context of the film) Ladies involved
... hang your heads in shame.
<|_=00=_|>
How this film could miss so many of the fascinating, complex and
mysterious aspects of the original story or the original movie is truly
remarkable. An unbelievably thin and unengaging plot, ankle-deep
characterisation/motivation and a really awful soundtrack (replacing
tension with vast swathes of noise, replacing the arcane musical
references of the original for digitised crashes and roars. Then there
are the specific references to the original which are merely "plastered
on" over the cracks... Dreadful. In a world where gormless, brain-dead
Amerikan remakes of The Italian Job (a tear appears), Get Carter (sobs
uncontrollably) and Alfie have desecrated our screens recently, this
one takes the proverbial biscuit. Execrable nonsense. How Ellen Burstyn
ever got involved is a wonder... Rubbish.
<|_=00=_|>
This has got to be one of the worst fillums I've ever seen and I've
seen a few. It is slow, boring, amateurish - not even consistent within
its own simplistic reading of the plot. The actors do not act. I can't
blame them - they have been given a script of such utter banality all
they can do is trudge through it with a pain behind their eyes which
has nothing to do with the evil goings on in SummersIsle.

There is not one moment in this film that rings true - not an honest
line nor a single instant where one is moved. The Nicholas Cage
character is so badly drawn that one feels not a smidgeon of compassion
for him through all his tribulations. I have no doubt that I was seeing
a suffering man up there but it was Nicholas Cage fully aware of the
fact that he was in the worst movie of his entire career.
<|_=00=_|>
what ever you do do not waste your time on this pointless. movie. A
remake that did not need to be retold. Everyone coming out of the
theater had the same comments. Worst movie I ever saw. Save your time
and money!!!

Nicgolas Cage was biking down hills, swimming in murky water and
rolling down hills while being attacked by bees but yet his suit was
still perfectly pressed and shirt crisp white until the very last
scene.

Although a good cast with Ellen Bernstein and Cage the acting was just
as unbelievable as the movie itself. It is amazing how good actors can
do such bad movies. Don't they get a copy of the script first. If you
still have any interest at all in seeing the movie at the very least
wait for it to come out on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was terrible. OK, my favourite film is 'The Wicker Man'
(1973), so I was always bound to be a little biased. 

The plot rambles along, throwing out enough of the key elements of the
original to make the term 'remake' highly dubious. (He's not a virgin,
but IS allergic to bees. WOW!) So many things happen that make no sense
and are unexplained, which I'm afraid Mr LaBute does not a horror movie
make. (How are two people we clearly saw blown up in a car at the start
alive and well at the end of the film?) Cage looks haggard and
bewildered throughout, and his character is prone to calling out
"Rowan!?" at the slightest noise. The 'nods' to the original are
irritating as they come off as tacky rather than as intelligent homage.
For example, certain incidents mirror the original (The girl falling
out of a cupboard pretending to be dead when Woodward/Cage is searching
the island) and several lines of dialogue are plucked straight from
Anthony Schaffers original screenplay and shoehorned in.

I'm sure others will provide a better and more detailed analysis than
this, I really can't be bothered to write any more about this film. It
lacks any kind of substance. Throw it on the scrap heap with all the
other remakes that have sullied the good names of the films they were
'based' on (in this case very loosely).
