
It has been a long time since I have seen a movie with as much
integrity and honesty. As the writer so aptly states in the opening of
the movie: this is a movie for romantics not critics.

When I hear someone trash a film or is angry about something the first
question I ask is "what are they afraid of?". It IS easy to be cavalier
and self serving. It is much more difficult to truly speak from the
heart.

The characters are real...the performances excellent. The script is
brilliant. There are so many gems...words of wisdom that it is hard to
remember them all.

What I like most about this movie is that it is completely
unapologetic. It takes courage to let it all hang out. 

Perhaps if our culture was more in tune with nature and less about
cynicism and ego we would all be better off.

I would highly recommend this movie to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended the World Premiere of Local Color Saturday night at the
Tribeca Film Festival, and I was filled with a sense of peace and
warmth as I left the theater. This really is a "feel good" film. 

Nicoli Seroff is an aging, jaded former Russian painter. His would-be
protégé is John Talia Jr., a young artist with the headlong enthusiasm
of youth. Writer/director George Gallo's tale is is nothing short of a
beautiful work of art, much like those which populate the film.

Ray Liotta: As John Sr., the always dependable Liotta shines in this
role as the macho "man's man" to his son's budding art ambitions. The
interactions between the two are painful if not comical. Even today
(the film is set in 1974) how many fathers would lovingly encourage
their teenage sons to be painters? Not unless the walls need to be
redone, of course. But in a role that could have easily been
stereotypical, Liotta adds nuance and texture to his performance with
which a less experienced actor would have struggled.

Samantha Mathis: Perhaps Seroff's final muse as he heads into his last
days, Mathis' Carla is full of life yet strains under the weight of
pain only she understands. Now Talia enters their lives  who will best
soothe her in her quiet anguish, or more appropriately, which artist
will most find comfort in her presence? Will she be the fulcrum who
balances Nicoli and John? Or will she tear them apart? Mathis takes on
this enigmatic role with steady, understated strength and is simply
angelic.

Ron Perlman: This veteran character actor may be one of our most
underrated performers of the last 25 years. That he was chosen for the
role of Curtis Sunday is a stroke of casting brilliance. Sometimes
Seroff's lone supporter, sometimes his fiercest nemesis, Sunday
provides the film's comic relief as a self-professed modernist who
claims to be at the cutting edge of art while thumbing his stuck up
nose at tradition. Effete and obnoxious, Perlman's Sunday manages to
elicit some empathy in the face of the stubborn, equally opinionated
Seroff. I cried with laughter at what may be one of the finest scenes
in any film this year. You'll know it when you see it. Perlman is
superb.

Armin Mueller-Stahl: I'm not one for hyperbole, but I truly believe
Mueller-Stahl would be astounding in any role he chooses. In this case,
as mentor to the young Talia, he is truly being himself  a legendary
artist who has been there, done that. In this case, though, he is the
reluctant teacher to Trevor Morgan's John. His is the face of wisdom
drawn from a lifetime of determination, success, and failure. His is
the mind of one who simply wants to live out his last days in a bottle
of vodka. And it is left to John Talia to break that bottle, or at
least to see Seroff through the glass, and vice-versa. Such is the
stuff of great film, and here the brilliant direction of George Gallo
is evident  he doesn't "direct" as much as he lets go. Mueller-Stahl
inhabits this character like hand in glove, at times heartbreaking, at
others raucous with laughter, his Seroff is the teacher we all dream of
 or is he? Will John be up to the task of coaxing the long dormant
talents of the Russian painter to wake up just long enough to inspire
the young man to pursue his dreams? Mueller-Stahl is a delight, and
deserves great notice for his performance as Nicoli Seroff.

Trevor Morgan: The impact of this film rests largely on the shoulders
of Morgan's performance as the young John Talia Jr., whose story is
based on the writer's own experiences as a young struggling artist in
an art world that is quite unfriendly to contrarians. To play the
protagonist in a film which is set in a world somewhat foreign to most
is daunting in itself. Morgan not only succeeds but wins the hearts of
the audience from the moment he appears on screen. The camera loves
him, and in a role that requires as much to be said in a look or a
gesture as words on a page, Morgan is an inspired choice. His are the
eyes of youth, of sadness and hope, of loneliness and desire, and this
is the stuff of which great performances are made. We believe Morgan is
John, but more importantly, John is everyboy. This isn't just a tale of
a youth yearning for acceptance in an art world in which his chosen
genre is passé. After all, what teen hasn't sought approval, somewhere,
sometime, in any setting? We all identify with John because we all were
John. Who will listen to me? Will my dad support my hopes and desires?
Will I find anyone to help me achieve my goals and dreams? This is
classic material, and Morgan's performance is gut wrenching and joyful
all at once. I was on the verge of tears for so long that when they
finally did flow it was cathartic. That Morgan is still a teenager
himself on whose performance this film succeeds or fails bodes well for
this young man's career. He is frighteningly endearing, and one is left
with a sense of wonder at what he has accomplished here. Expect great
things from Trevor Morgan.

Visually and aurally stunning, the sweeping landscapes of the
Pennsylvania woodlands (portrayed excellently by Louisiana) are
photographed in loving detail by Michael Negrin, and the score by Chris
Boardman is simply breathtaking. This is one soundtrack you'll want to
own. The music tugs at your heart without being heavy-handed, which
might have been the case in lesser talented hands.

Local Color is a masterful work of art, much like the subject of its
story, and the artist George Gallo deserves nothing less than the
boundless appreciation of the theater-going public. I certainly give
him that.
<|_=00=_|>
These days we have movies that hurl us into outer space, throw us into
life threatening situations laden with violence and hysteria, or filled
with so many amazing special effects that one cannot tell what is real
and what is not. George Gallo's newest film, LOCAL COLOR offers none of
the above. Not that I don't love the Wachowski Brothers or enjoy
peaking into the twisted, creative mind of Quentin Tarantino. I do. But
for countless reasons having to do with the state of the world today, I
think that most of us long for this kind of "entertainment". The kind
that serves to connect us to our humanity and give us hope. I love this
movie. The acting is stellar, the story is compelling and inspiring.
The cinematography is nothing short of spectacular. I was able to see
the world through a true artists eye. It made me understand the level
of passion and tenaciousness it takes to reach that level. Some might
say that the film is too sentimental, others might say it is
self-indulgent or egocentric, but I disagree. I feel that the tale was
told with hat in hand that it will serve to inspire anyone who is open
to the message it delivers. It is a movie about achievement attained by
following one's passion, not by selling ones soul.
<|_=00=_|>
I worked in post on Local Color. I took the job at a greatly reduced
fee. I must have cried 10 times watching the rough cut with no music.
Afterwards, I felt like telling the producers I would work for free on
this one, but, alas, I couldn't afford to do so. This is one of the
most moving films I have every seen. Tears of joy come to me every time
I even think about or tell some one of this film (and as I write). I am
a musician and artist. The ideas of this film resonate so deeply within
me that I felt that I could have written it myself. I was told that
Armin, after much urging, came out of retirement to do this. Having
read the script he said "This is what I've always wanted to say". As
for those who posted so negatively on this film, remember, right at the
beginning of the film - "You are warned, this is not a story for
cynics". Yes, it is sentimental, but the film defends that too.
Sentiment and art are what make us human.
<|_=00=_|>
Best film of the year in my opinion. I hope it gets wide distribution
since it is being offered by a small independent producer with
excellent credentials, George Gallo. Mr Gallo previously wrote "Wise
Guys", "Midnight Run" and his best previous effort "29th Street". This
is his best yet. Local Color is a sensitive film with outstanding art,
color, and photography. Actor Armin Mueller-Stahl is especially good in
his role. The premise of the film is that a young artist wants an "old
master" to give him lessons and the old man is not a "touchy-feely"
kind of teacher. Plot turns are unexpected and the ending is especially
well done (many other options could have been used).
<|_=00=_|>
A must see film for people who love good true stories about following
ones passions, Too bad that big studios are only about big $ and think
that the public does not want to see good movies that don't have the
shoot um up, kill, action. I believe people do want to watch movies
that inspire people to follow their dreams. As a film maker myself I
thank George and his Wife for not giving up. If you are lucky enough to
have this film come to your town go see it and tell your friends to see
it. Note The big studios said that no one wanted to see My Big Fat
Greek Wedding, who was wrong about that. Not the public.

Hang in there George.
<|_=00=_|>
Most of the time when I see a film, I instantly forget about it the
minute I walk out the theater door. This movie is different. It's been
three weeks now since I've seen "Local Color" and I can't stop thinking
about it. There are scenes so poignant that I can still hear the
dialogue echoing in my head. There's a scene in particular early on in
the film when the old painter looks up to the sky and asks his young
protégé, "What color are the clouds? You think that they're white, but
look again". Since seeing this film, I too find myself looking around
me, analyzing the color and beautiful nuances of life. This film has
honestly changed the way I look at things.

Furthermore, this film is very funny. The humor is very human and it
takes you by surprise. I laughed out loud a lot. I love this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I have now seen this movie 5 times and I will bet that I will see it
five more. This movie for me was a validation of a life time of
conviction about the state of modern art and how it has consistently
suppressed the simple idea that nature and beauty still do matter. 

I have gone to art school and I have seen how modern art schools can be
so destructive in the nurturing of classically minded artists. And at
the end of the day we wonder where the hell is art going. 

For me this movie rekindled my love and passion for painting and
ultimately reminded me of all those wonderful teachers who selflessly
gave and encouraged me not to stop my journey. There is so much in John
Talia's character that I related to, and I am sure a great deal more to
Armin's. 

Every frame in the movie for me looked like it was composed by an
artist, only later to find out that it was. Anyone who admires the art
of the great American Pennsylvania and dutch movement, will take away
so much from this movie. You can see the influence of Andrew Wyeth and
the Brandywine school on the director. 

George Gallo is as masterful a story teller as he is an artist. His
attention to composition of every frame and his sincere dialogue and
very real character development, make this a guy to watch. I can't wait
until his next picture.

I was very moved by the entire experience. 

This movie gets five stars and 2 thumbs up from me.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a rough cut of this film a while back and was deeply moved by its
simple beauty and meditative pace. 

The performances have so much depth and take the diverse characters to
a level that must have moved even the writer/director and producers. 

It is also surprisingly funny, well not surprisingly, but when you read
terms like "deeply moved" or "meditatve pace" you might *surprisingly*
find yourself laughing out loud...a lot...

This is a feel good movie without being forced to feel good...it is an
unfolding story with the heart and soul of the writer/director,
producers, crew and cast made available to us, the audience, to take,
relate and in our own way, give back...
<|_=00=_|>
In 1974, in the suburb of Port Chester, New York, the teenager aspirant
artist John Talia (Trevor Morgan) has a troubled relationship with his
homophobic father (Ray Liotta) that does not understand his talent.
While visiting his friend Yammi (Charles Durning), John finds that the
genius Russian painter Nicoli Seroff (Armin Mueller-Stahl) lives nearby
and he decides to pay a visit to his idol. John finds a bitter
alcoholic elder that still grieves the loss of his wife Anya many years
ago but he successfully befriends the master. When Nicoli travels to
the countryside in Pennsylvania, he invites John to go with him to
teach him how to paint. Then John meets Nicoli's neighbor Carla
(Samantha Mathis) who grieves that loss of her son, and the arrogant
critic of art and Nicolai's friend Curtis Sunday (Ron Perlman). Along
their vacation, the synergy of Nicoli and John improves their
individual lives.

"Local Color" is a nostalgic and melancholic movie about life and
passion for arts. The story is based on true events and is beautifully
disclosed through the magnificent performance of the fantastic Armin
Mueller-Stahl, very well supported by Trevor Morgan. The gorgeous
Samantha Mathis has also a minor but important participation and she
does not appear her stated age (36); therefore she fits perfectly to
the role of Carla. The movie plays with emotions, oscillating between
few bitterly funny moments (like for example when Nicoli shows the
paintings of the children with mental retardation to his arrogant
friend or his behavior in the art exposition in the countryside) and
many heartbreaking moments. The message to follow the dreams is nice;
the cinematography is beautiful; the pace is adequate and my only
remark is to the pronunciation (or accent) of the narrator in long
texts, which is difficult to be followed. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Mestre da Vida" ("The Master of the Life")
