
First of all, let me say that I'm a 41 year old man who saw all of the
original Love Bug movies with my mom growing up in Chicago.

This movie is an instant classic! It captured the fun spirit of the
original moves--I felt like very little time had passed and the same
magic was present in this movie. It's was fun, zany, cute, and
endearing.

My nine year old daughter and I laughed and cheered through the whole
thing. It's a solid 'A' rating and 5/5 stars in both of our eyes. We
couldn't stop talking about how good it was after leaving the theater.

The acting wouldn't win an Oscar but was more than adequate for a kids'
movie.

The story was well written. It did a great job bridging the past to the
current time-frame. It was also pretty original and employed modern
racing car themes like monster trucks and NASCAR.

I don't understand why the general public and professional critics are
rating it so low. It's a kids' movie and likewise one has to have the
correct mind-set when viewing it. I was swept away from the beginning
and it kept me engaged. So many other movies these days have various
flaws that keep coming to mind when you watch them; this movie was just
fine.

Go see this movie with your kids. It's refreshingly clean and a blast!
<|_=00=_|>
Repeat the following prior to viewing this movie: "I will suspend my
disbelief and dutifully accept all plot devices in order to maintain
the sanity that would otherwise escape me were I to process events in
the movie from a logical perspective." Because yes, Herbie, an old VW
Bug, will compete in a NASCAR race and drive sideways on the fence--as
seen in the previews.

Having said that, this movie is quite enjoyable when watched from such
a standpoint. It's fun and innocent, but it carries the typical Disney
fantastical vibe as well. I sometimes get annoyed with the cheesy
ridiculousness of those types of movies, but then again, when I was a
kid I thought they were wonderful. So, take that as you will.

Maggie Peyton (Lindsay Lohan) has just graduated from college and is
about to happily embark on her new life as an ESPN writer. Her father
(Michael Keaton aka The Dark Knight) and late grandfather own Peyton
Racing, a NASCAR team in which her brother, Ray Jr.,competes.
Unfortunately for the family, Ray Jr. (Breckin Meyer) lacks the racing
talent that his father, grandfather and sister possess, and the team is
now struggling to keep sponsors from backing out after numerous crashes
and defeats on the track. Maggie dreams of racing for the team, but her
father desperately wants her to use her college degree and leave the
horrible world of racing behind. We're never really told why her father
considers professional racing to be so lowly a profession, given that
it produces dozens of respectable sports stars and, oh yeah, lots and
lots of money; but, again let's stick to the original "suspension of
disbelief" mantra, and we'll have no trouble with his opinion of the
sport. Maggie comes across Herbie and quickly learns that the car has a
mind of its own and can magically propel her and her family into fame
and fortune on the racetrack.

The movie is complete with a standard garden-variety villain, Trip
Murphy (Matt Dillon), a four-time NASCAR champion, who, despite being
competent enough to win the Nextel Cup series four times, cannot keep
his mind off an impromptu street race that he lost to Herbie. He acts
like a jerk, flings insults at Maggie, and generally struts around like
he's better than everyone, thus enabling the audience to despise him.
Plus, he was like, totally mean to Herbie and called him a piece of
junk! You just don't talk about Herbie like that, and I so kept hoping
he'd get his comeuppance in the end.

I did like the movie, however, because from a certain standpoint it is
enjoyable to watch. Herbie himself has several humorous moments, and I
couldn't help but like him. Given that this wasn't a documentary it's
forgivable in its transgressions on reality, which in the end make the
movie more entertaining. It's lighthearted and doesn't attempt to beat
the audience down with a message (ahem, Sharkboy & LavaGirl). I highly
recommend Herbie: Fully Loaded for kids and for those who like cute and
wholesome moviesÂ—if you're simply looking for a good pick-me up and a
fun movie, then this is definitely one that you shouldn't miss.

Just...don't get caught up in the details.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been hearing things about "Herbie: Fully Loaded" for at least
the past 6 months. I saw the trailer and was not impressed at all; saw
the dull poster which also didn't do anything for me. I also have to
admit, I was very leery to see this film especially after such a lame
trailer, dull poster and hearing about Lindsay Lohan's recent behavior
and seeing how she looks like a poor, sickly child from Nigeria. But
anyway, I went to see the movie anyway at a sneak preview nonetheless
and despite all Lohan's bad publicity lately and the film's lousy
marketing campaign, I was actually pretty impressed with the final
product of "Herbie: Fully Loaded." 

"Herbie: Fully Loaded" takes off right where the other movies left off.
Herbie is now washed up and in the junk yard just about to be made into
strap metal but just then Maggie (A healthy and attractive looking
Linday Lohan) comes to the junk yard to get a car. Why a junk yard you
may ask? Because her dad (Michael Keaton) is a NASCAR Coach and so he
knows how to repair cars. So Maggie decides to buy Herbie and before
you can say Love Bug, Maggie notices that Herbie has a mind of his own,
not to mention has the power to be a race car. And so the cheesy but
fun Herbie adventure begins.

I actually enjoyed this film which came as a huge shock to me. Like I
said earlier this movie had some of the worst marketing and advertising
that I have ever seen for a film. However, I am very grateful that the
film didn't actually suck like the marketing on this film did. So
anyway, having seen the earlier Herbie films I was actually very
impressed with this one.

It was also good to see a healthy and attractive Lindsay Lohan again on
screen. I have been seeing nothing but this anorectic, skinny, ugly
girl on the cover of various magazines for the past month or so. I am
really sad that Hollywood has gotten to her head because the girl has
talent; she's just falling into the fame and fortune trap of Hollywood.
But I don't want to get into my feelings on Lohan right now but just
comment on how much I enjoyed her performance in the movie, and how it
is probably my favorite role for her since Freaky Friday. Michael
Keaton was also very good in his role as the father figure. He also
plays one heck of a believable NASCAR Coach. Also I would like to
mention Justin Long (Kevin in the film) who is one of Hollywood's new
up and coming actors. I really dig this guy in his previous films like
"Dodgeball", "Galaxy Quest" & "Jeepers Creepers", along with his role
in this film. The guy plays very likable characters and I really liked
him as the long lost friend in Herbie. Also Matt Dillon stars as NASCAR
Driver Trip Murphy who plays the bad guy with no problem at all which
isn't hard since Matt Dillon usually always plays the jerk or unlikable
character.

The film's most enjoyable character is of course Herbie who as long as
you can remember is a classic character can still be enjoyed. I liked
how they updated Herbie a bit but didn't over do it. It was enjoyable
to see the connection between Herbie and Maggie. Herbie of course is
extremely far fetched like the whole racing in the NASCAR tournament
but you cheer for him because he is the underdog. It's nice to see a
simple family movie like this being released into theaters at a time
where computer animation films like "Shrek", "The Incredibles", and
"Madagascar" are kings. I know this movie doesn't compare to the first
two films mentioned but I feel it's just as good as "Madagascar" or a
lot of other family films released in the last few years. Like I said,
it's a simple yet enjoyable film. It has nothing that would offend any
children and is enjoyable for Herbie fans and as well as adults.

The film's most memorable scene for me was the scene where Herbie just
got bought and comes out of the junk yard and Maggie is trying to drive
him to the repair shop to meet up with Kevin (Justin Long) but she
finds out that Herbie has a mind of his own and Herbie drives her. It
becomes very enjoyable from this point to see how Herbie and Maggie
share their emotions going through anger, sadness, and the feeling of
being unwanted.

So in the end, "Herbie: Fully Loaded" is much better then the bad
trailers lead it to be. It has a lot of heart, a decent story, and is
as enjoyable as the previous Herbie Films. Herbie gets a little upgrade
and they throw in some corny love bug jokes but hey they are harmless
and can be taken with a grain of salt. Overall, I was happy to see
Lindsay Lohan looking healthy and enjoying herself on screen along with
an old fashioned family film that we rarely see anymore. I think if
you're a fan of Herbie you should see this, if you have kids take them
and enjoy, and finally if you have nothing to better to do and want to
see a harmless, fun film check out "Herbie: Fully Loaded" because
although it's pretty cheesy its also a fun and enjoyable time.

MovieManMenzel's final rating for "Herbie: Fully Loaded" is a 7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
When Maggie Peyton (Lindsay Lohan) graduates from college, her father
Ray Peyton Sr. (Michael Keaton) gives an used car from a scrap metal
yard as a gift, and she takes a 1963 Volkswagen beetle with the number
53. Maggie finds a letter in the glove compartment telling that the
bug's name is Herbie and she visits her friend and mechanic Kevin
(Justin Long) to check Herbie. They go to a car show where they are
challenged by the arrogant champion racer Trip Murphy (Matt Dillon) for
a race. Maggie and Herbie win Trip, and the revengeful pilot plots a
scheme to take Herbie from Maggie.

"Herbie Fully Loaded" is delightfully cute and a magnificent family
entertainment. The story is predictable, corny, but mainly adorable.
The sweet Lindsay Lohan is perfect for this type of role, and Matt
Dillon performs a great villain. Take the popcorn, join family and
friends and have a good-time watching "Herbie Fully Loaded" on DVD. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Herbie, Meu Fusca Turbinado" ("Herbie, My Turbined
Beetle")
<|_=00=_|>
Lindsay Lohan plays a Los Angeles college grad from a NASCAR family
whose graduation present from pop Michael Keaton is the same '63
Volkswagen Beetle from 1968's "The Love Bug" and its horde of cinematic
follow-ups. 'Herbie', a car with a mind of its own, not only gets Lohan
back on the racing track, but plays matchmaker for her and a cute
auto-mechanic as well. Not especially imaginative, but a nice family
film with some mild laughs (one which is sweetly in-tune with its '70s
roots). The story denouement is utterly predictable, and the
performances are all phoned-in (Lohan is so enervated, she barely
reacts the first time she realizes her car is possessed). Still, the
pace is fast, the music selections bright, and the special effects are
good. ** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing I want to say about this movie is that after the
opening credits it has about 5 to 10 minutes of THE WORST acting (save
Halle Berry's friend in Catwoman). BUT if you wait this out, you'll at
least be entertained by the movie.

Herbie: Fully Loaded is definitely a family movie. If you're not going
with a family, or aren't a long-time Herbie fan, wait until it's on
DVD. Herbie is chock full of family-friendly humor and a tried-and-true
Disney style storyline.

What's the story in a nutshell you ask? Well, Lindsay Lohan just
graduates from college (no that's not a typo, they actually expect us
to believe Lindsay Lohan is about 22, not the 18-19 that she looks.)
Her father, Michael Keaton, takes her to a salvage yard to find a car
for her graduation present. She finds Herbie, Herbie finds her,
bing-bang-boom, she street races a NASCAR pro, Matt Dillon.
Yada-yada-yada, stuff happens, typical Disney finish.

Now I had two MAJOR issues with the movies. First of those being that
whenever CGI is used it is Blatantly obvious. Sometimes non-CGI effects
are obvious too! What do I mean? In one shot where Herbie is doing some
tricky driving, an incredibly mannish stunt driver in a ugly wig can be
seen doubling (although silhouetted) for Lohan in Herbie.

Two, there are plot holes galore. I can't think of any off hand, but I
remember noticing things that happened that didn't make much sense.

Also, this movie has some of the BEST MUSIC (compilation wise) I have
ever heard in a movie. I'm not good with names of bands and songs, so
I'm not sure if the good songs are on the soundtrack, but if they are,
the soundtrack is a definite buy for any classic rock fan. If you
completely ignore this review and see the movie by yourself (or on a
date) SPECIFICALLY listen for the music.

All in all, this movie is a good family movie. Don't expect it to win
any awards. If you can deal with lackluster CGI, a dud of a beginning,
and a standard Disney storyline, then you'll be pleasantly entertained.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
After the delightful homage or tribute to past Herbie movies through
shots of the old Herbie during the opening credits, Fully Loaded Herbie
tries unsuccessfully to recreate an updated version of the 60s Herbie
slapstick that doesn't stick at all and backfires black smoke. The
laughs at the beginning are dead on arrival until Lohan comes on the
scene and the movie settles down with a contemporary version of Herbie.
The collision of yesterday antics with today's comedy was a bust.
Herbie Fully Loaded follows the traditional script with a more
emotional one-two punch (like with duel engines) that Lohan was known
for in Mean Girls. Matt Dillon's descent into insanity wasn't as fully
developed as it could have been. The special effects are somewhat tame,
the new Herbie's computer reality uneasy and the climactic special
effect disappointing.

The storyline is decent enough, the plot OK, and the performances
adequate but not outstanding. This is an average movie made a bit
better by the intensity it brings on to the good girl turned bad girl
transformation and of course the redemption. Not as cute and cuddly as
the original, but consistent, sometimes funny, and meaningful. Six out
of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
In a day and age of films that are just not really family friendly,
this one shines in that aspect. It is a good, clean family film. No bad
language, no sex, no violence. (Hmm, maybe that is why some people
didn't like it.) Do you have to be a real "Herbie" fan to enjoy it? I
don't think so. You just have to use some imagination and get into the
"spirit" of the film. I think that Lindsay Lohan does a good job at her
role in the film, but some of the acting may seem a little cheesy at
times. (Could be just the persona of the film.) There were several
scenes that could have been taken right out of "The Love Bug" and the
like, which some of the older Herbie fans will come to enjoy. So, all
in all, I am giving this movie a 9 mainly because of the "family film"
factor. If your kids are like "oh yeah right" when they see some
obvious unreal effects, like a car "winking" or driving by itself, then
it may not be for them. But if your kids just want to have some fun -
go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I suppose I could just really rake this movie over the coals if I
wanted to, but what's the point? It'd be like beating a physically
handicapped kid in arm wrestling - it's way easy, but you walk away
without really accomplishing anything, and you feel kind of bad
afterwards.

Plus, I'm not exactly part of the main demographic for this movie, and
if you aren't part of the demographic, then why would you even consider
paying money to see it? What are you expecting? This is a movie about a
lifelike car that spits exhaust in the faces of bad guys, leaks oil on
their bad guy shoes, and opens its trunk, doors, or glove compartment
whenever something needs to be revealed or somebody needs to be
strategically hit in a slapstick manner. If those types of shenanigans
send you rolling down the aisles in apoplectic fits of laughter then
you're in luck. However, if you're like me and aren't quite so easily
amused then you might want to veer your hard-earned dollars in another
direction.

Even though I've never been a fan of the Herbie series, and this movie
did nothing to make me a convert, there are some positives. The most
important being that Lindsay Lohan is looking very good and is in fine
pre-anorexia, pre-fake blonde form. She claims her current look (Ode De
Skeletal Olsen Twin) is for a movie she's doing in which she plays a
fashion designer, and she promises to put her weight back on. I hope so
because she definitely looks better with a little meat on them bones!
The second positive is that the entire cast is giving it their best.
They're not given great material to work with, but at least they look
like they're having a little fun. I'm quite sure Matt Dillon is well
aware that this isn't exactly a step up from his previous movie, Crash,
but he doesn't use that as an excuse to phone in his performance, so I
have to give credit there.

I think they should've renamed the movie though. I would've suggested
Herbie: Fully Loaded WITH MUSIC MONTAGES! Sheesh. I honestly don't
think I've ever seen one movie with that many montages. At times I
thought I was watching a series of Disney music videos. What in the
world? Was this a prime example of avoiding dialogue? Oh well. At times
boring, and never threatening to entice riotous laughter, Herbie at
least moves along at a decent pace and is never quite so stupid that
it's intellectually insulting, so I won't be too harsh. I'm sure it's
loads of fun for the really young (under 7). However, when I asked my
10-year-old brother what he thought of the movie he replied, "It was
OK." When I asked if he thought it was funny he replied, "Kind of. I
guess." Not exactly a ringing endorsement but not a total condemnation
either.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was a kid (long ago), I saw all four "Herbie" movies, and I can
remember being kind of underwhelmed by them even at that tender age. In
fact, I thought the last two of the original four were really lame. So
I made it a point to avoid "Herbie Fully Loaded" when it came out. But
it came on television recently, and I decided to give it a chance since
I'd be seeing it for free.

I was surprised. Now, I will admit that the movie has its share of
flaws. It doesn't explain why Herbie, in the time between the previous
movie and this movie went downhill as a racer, and why Herbie had been
forgotten by the racing community (and its audience) - you would think
a Beetle that kept winning races would be remembered by SOMEONE! I
could go on with listing its flaws, but I found its charms outweighed
its flaws. For starters, the protagonists are very likable, down to
earth and not annoyingly goofy. And Dillon's character of the rival
racer was not broad and instead more of a realistic villain.

The special effects are a mix of "old school" effects like the original
movies used, mixed in with CGI. I actually found the combination
worked, blending with each other well.

I'm not saying that this is a movie to actively seek out... but if you
come across it while in a silly mood, I think there's a good chance
you'd find it an agreeable way to pass the time.
