
Contrary to the many comments I have read and heard about the film thus
far, I thought it was absolutely wonderful. After what some could term
a "dry spell" for Tim Burton, it is such a breath of fresh air to see
this new offering, Sweeney Todd. The movie showed Tim returning to his
roots of the dark, the sinister, and the macabre. All were blended
together in the setting he is so very well-known for, the dark streets
of London.

In addition, I thought the fact that he maintained the musical aspect
of the film/play worked in the movie's favor. I know Johnny Depp has
said that he can't sing, but he sang rather well if you ask me. Keeping
the cockney accent, whether singing or not, it made the film that much
better. While I was surprised to see Danny Elfman not included in this
movie, I believe the music was performed and carried out beautifully,
nonetheless. Indeed, the accents can at times make it hard to discern
what is being said, but that's not always a bad thing, considering the
circumstances. Were they to all of a sudden not speak or sing with
their cockney tones, it may provide a problem with consistency.
Overall, I loved the movie and have no complaints. A very refreshing
return to the realms and themes that Tim Burton is so very amazing at
capturing. Top notch!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the grim expectations from the story synopsis, the film
delivers gore in a surprisingly tasteful way. There are no screaming
teenagers running from a lunatic; instead we get a somewhat British
blend of satire, slapstick and just "wrong" humor. Although I'm not
much of a Johnny Depp fan, I enjoyed his performance as well as Helena
Bonham Carter's. Even the portrayal of the common clients was stunning.

Despite being generally familiar with the story, I fell into some traps
expecting specific twists, yet something different (and better) being
delivered. This is a model of how to do dark humor that filmmakers
should and probably will follow. It is most refreshing. Don't read the
story and don't read any spoilers until you've seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
I approached Sweeney Todd with trepidation, having been underwhelmed
with most of Tim Burton's recent output and every screen musical of the
last decade. The biggest problem I have with Burton's films is that his
screenplays rarely manage to pull their disparate elements into a
satisfying whole. Here, despite adapting the material to his own
sensibilities and shortening the play by an hour, he adheres closely to
Sondheim's book, resulting in the most dramatically satisfying film
Burton has ever made. 

I liked the adaptation of the off-off Broadway Hedwig and the Angry
Inch, but have been left underwhelmed by all the recent big budget film
musicals, so I'm glad to say that Sweeney Todd, wipes the floor with
every major screen musical of the last decade, including the likable if
over extended Hairspary. Most surprising is how shockingly gruesome the
the film becomes in the second half. This must be the most blood
drenched film since Shogun Assassin, with arteries spurting blood like
like fountains as throats are cut, with the violence escalating towards
the end leading towards a climax that is exhilarating, heartbreaking
and satisfyingly bleak.

Unlike the dreary dirges Danny Elfman supplied for Burton's stop frame
musicals, Sondheim's score is a joy to listen to from beginning to end,
its dark romanticism sometimes reminding me of Bernhard Herrmann,
perfectly fitting what is both a musical and a horror film in equal
measures.

Depp and Bonham Carter are both excellent and it's down to their
performances that I never quite lost sympathy with them in their
descent into madness, blood lust and cannibalism.

Musical haters may not be converted as 75% percent of the dialogue is
sung, but this completely dispatches any notion of cloying
sentimentally the genre is often associated with.
<|_=00=_|>
Good dark fun.

I knew nothing of this movie except Tim Burton and Johnny Depp had
something to do with it, and that, as the executive director put it,
there was "lots of blood". I don't think of myself as liking musicals,
although I should probably reconsider now.

I had a moment of dread when the movie started and there was a mention
of Sacha Baron Cohen being in it. However his performance was in fact
quite good. While his acting has a few things in common with his
over-the-top Borat character, it somehow fits rather well within the
movie.

Some elements of the plot are rather predictable, in a Greek tragedy
sort of way, but it doesn't really detract from the movie. We get to
enjoy the downward spiral even though we know its shape.

All in all, the movie was awesome, filled with damned and hopeless
characters that still made you laugh at every turn.
<|_=00=_|>
Attend the Tale! This is a major must-see film. It's first and foremost
a musical, with essentially all the characters singing throughout, but
it's also horrific and hilarious. If cheerful musicals aren't your
thing, never fear  this is Sweeney Todd  a very darkly comic and
tragic tale. This is a faithful but unique adaptation of the
award-winning and much beloved stage musical by Stephen Sondheim, with
few cuts and changes. Contrary to some musicals where the songs aren't
necessary to the basic plot, these 'meaty' songs tell the tale. Sweeney
Todd is a throat-slashing barber (an urban legend) obsessed with
revenge. His accomplice, Mrs. Lovett, is smitten with unrequited love
and brings new meaning to "waste not, want not" in her meat-pie bakery.

Tim Burton is at his best, artfully meshing the powerful and beautiful
music with stunning visuals. He successfully creates a much more
intimate atmosphere than can be achieved on stage, with characters
up-close and personal, and he makes brilliant use of light/dark
contrasts and color. Although none of the actors (except Kelly) are
professional singers, each character is portrayed very effectively with
the acting and singing combined. The cinematography, set designs,
costumes, and makeup are all striking. The horrific moments are
graphically brutal and gory  Burton does not skimp on the blood, and
it even becomes intentionally over-the-top (the camera lens is
splattered at one point). But it does not seem gratuitous in that it IS
the reality of the story, and it also has a metaphorical role. The
violence IS disturbing, but you can cover your eyes if you're squeamish
(it's only a few scenes). There are also hilarious moments  especially
"The Contest" with a rival barber (Cohen), and the dreamy "By the Sea"
sequence.

And can Johnny Depp sing? And how! Not only does he sing Sondheim, and
sing it well, but he creates a refreshingly new interpretation of this
complex character, and does an amazing job acting the part through the
singing, staying 100% in character and accent throughout. He goes from
lovingly crooning to his razors in "My Friends" to thrilling madness in
"Epiphany." Rather than a booming, operatic baritone with grand
gestures, his is a more subdued but intense Sweeney. As the (cut)
ballad says, he's odd, pale, subtle, and smooth. It's a great
character, and an excellent and Oscar-worthy performance. Johnny Depp
IS Sweeney Todd! But perhaps the best thing about this movie is that it
isn't just about Sweeney. It's filled with other interesting
characters, and the entire cast is remarkable. Carter's voice is a bit
thin, but she creates a very adorable and complex Mrs. Lovett. She is a
wonderfully colorful and humorous contrast to the dark and gloomy
Sweeney. The judge (Rickman), Pirelli (Cohen), beadle (Spall), and Lucy
(Kelly) all seem perfect to me. Anthony (Bower), Johanna (Wisener), and
Toby (Sanders) are all very young and innocent, with angelic voices,
and little Toby is a scene-stealer.

This movie is thoroughly entertaining and it leaves the audience in a
stunned silence. I can't wait to see it again!
<|_=00=_|>
And this conventicle has brought us a glistening and irresistible
nightmare. There are delicious Dickensian overtones throughout, and the
look of the film itself is poetically potent. The entire mix is
shockingly seductive with an unforgettable ending. Burton's humor is
part and parcel of his sheer brilliance, as always, and, as always, the
great Johnny Depp is intense and positively unforgettable. All
performances are electric, the pace and length are perfect, and the
film draws us deeper and deeper with every moment into its stunning
blend of the grotesque and the undeniably beautiful. Analysing the
power of a film like this is no simple matter. The whole is dazzlingly
disturbing. You don't want to miss a second of it, even though the film
is merciless to us and to its protagonists. It sings, it glows, it
enchants, it horrifies. I want to see it again. And again. It's a
brutal and shattering masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
As it happens more often than not, greatness is relegated to some
obscure angle. In a year of brilliant opuses by the Cohen Brothers and
PT Anderson, this Tim Burton film shines as the best from every angle.
It's not just that Burton creates another superb, dark universe with
Dante Ferretti's complicity or that Johnnt Deep breaks new ground, or
that Helena Bonham Carter surprises us with a complex, marvelous
realistic parody. The film touches visually a very private cord. Ed
Wood managed that but Tim Burton with "Sweeny Todd" elevates it to the
purest form of art. He will be punished for that, as Ed Wood was in its
day. Disappointing grosses in a world that worship grosses will make it
appear as a sort of a failure. My advise to you is run to see it
wherever you can find it. Try to see it in a big screen with great
sound. You will fly and dream and be taken away by the masterful hands
of Tim Burton and the glorious faces of Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham
Carter.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the original stage version of this grimly Gothic tale,
going into Sweeney Todd was bittersweet in my hopes and expectations.
However, I'm pleased to announce that I did find Burton's latest effort
impressive and intentional. Fans of the original won't be disappointed
with a top-notch cast and the wonderfully dark overtures that haunt
every minute of Sweeney Todd. Tim Burton, one of the masters of
ambiance, sets his atmosphere in the grisly streets of a depressed
London and his artistry punctures through every scene of screen time. I
would have to clarify that, while Johnny Depp is a skilled actor, fans
of the original will find it hard to believe that Depp has the ability
to transform into the George Hearn "Sweeny" we've come to know. This is
in fact true and recognized by Burton. In this respect, the character
of Depp is not played as the same manner as the deep-voiced, towering
Todd from the musical adaptation. Depp's is more of a less boisterous
and thoughtful one. The vocal performances are great but have a
different approach and feel to them. It was a refreshing adaptation and
I feel a triumph on the part of Burton for making a stage-to-screen
experience that captures you from it's bloody introduction.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton has gone beyond himself and anything he has ever done.
"Sweeney Todd" is stunningly beautiful. Dark? yes, bloody? sure! but
then we're in Victorian London where everything is what it appears to
be no matter how turgid. The meeting of Mr Todd and Mrs Lovett is so
scrumptiously conceived that I'm sure will be one of those film moments
that are used whenever "great film moments" are compiled. Johnny Depp
will never cease to amaze me. He is not just the beautiful boy with
soulful eyes, but a great actor. How extraordinary that two talents
like Burton and Depp should meet at the perfect moment in time. How
lucky for us! Mrs Lovett is played by another extraordinary actor:
Helena Bonham Carter. She is spectacular! Sacha Baron Cohen, Alan
Rickman and in particular Timothy Spall add to the perfection of this
film. Dante Ferreti, the production designer and Coleen Attwood, the
costume designer, deserve all the kudos they are getting and will get.
Glorious!
<|_=00=_|>
"At last, my arm is complete again." Sweeney Todd as he admires one of
his efficient razors after a long absence.

I'm not sure Tim Burton's Sweeney Todd is "grand," but I'm confident
it's in the best Grand Guignol tradition of sensational stage horror
given its name from that little theater in early 20th century Paris
that specialized in sensationally ghoulish productions. I am also sure
that no one in film is better able to play the titular butcher than the
shape-shifting, ever-naughty Johnny Depp.

The opening song "No Place Like London" hints to Anglophiles like me
that it won't be my usual tour of West End theaters, rather a seedy,
dangerous place where Mac the Knife would be more at home. Throughout
the musical, Steven Sondheim's lyrics expressively revel in the amoral,
throat-slicing world that Sweeney and his adoring meatpie lady, Nellie
Lovett (Helena Bonham-Carter), wallow in as he prepares to take revenge
on the equally amoral Judge Turpin (Alan Rickman), who dispatched Todd
to prison early on to get his beautiful young wife. Hence Sweeney's
revenge inclination.

Sweeney's lyric best expresses the wildly murderous world, hardly the
usual province of musicals: "Alright! You, Sir?/No one's in the chair
come on, come on/Sweeney's waiting/I want you bleeders./You sir! Too
sir?/Welcome to the grave./I will have vengeance./I will have salvation
. . . ." Yes, it's Sleepy-Hollow, Corpse-Bride Tim Burton's movie with
blood spouting like red paint from a pressure gun contrasting the
somber, almost black and white underside of London. When one of the
children bites into a pie with a finger in it (shades of our
contemporary law suits!), the audience doesn't even gasp, given the
omnipresence of bloody bodies.

There is no more interesting musical this year, even considering the
enchanting Once. In the end, it is unsettling, unsavory, and unusual.
Burton does better than anyone else in juxtaposing horror with
innocence.
