
I really don't get the negative reviews for this movie. I'm in my
forties, so is my husband. Our children are three and eleven. We all
loved this movie. I'll buy the DVD.

I liked this movie as well as A Bug's Life, if not better. Why? The
message that it's okay to be yourself and that you don't have to simply
accept bullying is delivered in a more laid-back way. A Bug's Life and
Toy Story, by comparison, are frenetic.

The actors voices and characterization are terrific. All in all, I
think the visuals at the end of the film - sort of a funky,
hieroglyphic narrative - help to sum up this film's appeal or lack of
appeal, depending on the nature of the viewer. If you genuinely prefer
faster-paced, more "in-your-face" type of movies (and I realize that
most American film viewers do these days), then you will have to
acclimate a little to this film. But not much. It's plenty busy.

What it also is, however, is charming. Toy Story was charming. So was
the first Shrek, in its own quirky, slightly perverse way. The Ant
Bully, in my family's opinion (and we go to a lot of movies), was just
what we needed for a Friday night of family entertainment. We had some
really good laughs, enjoyed being together, and left feeling upbeat.
The audience seemed to enjoy this movie very much. There was a lot of
laughter and many people stayed to watch the colorful visuals at the
end.

If you don't like this movie, then perhaps you need to learn to kick
back and relax a little more often. We found it to be well worth
viewing and it will certainly receive a lot of travel time viewing in
our car once it's released on DVD. I saw that Tom Hanks was an
Executive Producer. Thanks, Tom.
<|_=00=_|>
Wildly entertaining for kids and bits of off the wall humor for adults
make The Ant Bully my top choice for cartoons and animated films this
year! Tom Hanks' production group assembled a fantastic line up of
voice actors for this movie. My favorite all-star was Julia Roberts,
who I believe is best playing in fun roles for children as she did in
Hook as Tinkerbell.

Nicolas Cage added a hint of familiarity and also added to the
entertainment level for adults (i.e. imagining the "Lord of War" as a
tiny ant!) Above that, my favorite part about the Ant Bully were the
vivid scenes and camera angles between the world of the human and the
world of the ant. The animators had brilliant use of switching the
perspective at different times Â– for example - *mini-spoiler* a fire
cracker goes off and makes a gigantic BOOM in the underground for the
ants, but the camera zooms out and it is a tiny pop for the world of
humans.

The variety of entertainment and different levels of humor make The Ant
Bully this Summer's top choice for family fun!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand why some of the better animated films have semi-low
ratings, I think because people were comparing this movie to the film
"Antz", I'm not quite sure if it was a sequel, but I thought on it's
own "The Ant Bully" was a very fun movie for all ages. The animation
and the story were fun and great to watch, I honestly think that The
Ant Bully is one of the best animated films I have seen in a while.

Lucas is a boy who is constantly picked on and he ends up taking his
anger out on the ants in his front yard by smashing their colony and
drowning them with the hose. The ants are fed up and decide to shrink
Lucas and give him a taste of what they go through when he drowns and
destroys their city. He now has to work as an ant and become one of
them, he slowly realizes how important the ants are and how wrong he
was. But things get more difficult when he forgets that he hired an
exterminator to get rid of the ants.

The Ant Bully was a very touching and wonderful story that I felt is
important for kids to watch. I loved how it showed the moral of "What
goes around comes around", kids need to learn that more now a days,
because it's very true. Not to mention that The Ant Bully in general is
just a great animated film that the whole family could get a kick out
of. A great cast and a fun filled story made this film work, so don't
be so harsh.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to attend a early screening of this movie by chance. Finding
the free pass discarded on the ground at a busy bus stop here in
downtown Seattle. Lucky I was!

I really enjoyed this movie, it was a great improvement over the past
"Antz" movie it preceded not too long ago. The film was well rounded
being able to capture the attention of late twenty somethings to
preteens with its clever comedy and playful characters. Kinda like a
Honey I shrunk the kids minus the moldy cheese.

There were a few jokes aimed @ an older audience but this helped keep
more mature viewers feeling they had spent their 9 bucks on a
delightful film.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the animation was excellent. The story was apropos for the
intended audience--mostly families. I'm not sure why there are comments
from other viewers complaining about hidden meanings--as best as I can
tell, that says more about the viewer than it does about the movie.
Ants behaved in the movie like we imagine ants to behave when
personified. It is unreasonable to attach any hidden meaning to it. The
message was simple and straightforward. It is your basic good vs. evil,
little guy vs. bully. It is a great family film. I recommend it for any
child, and any adult who wants to forget about life for a while and
think like a child.
<|_=00=_|>
Elements from several recent computer-generated pictures are truly
evident in this animated feature that focuses on a young boy who takes
his frustrations out on defenseless ants after being bullied himself by
his peers. After he magically gets turned to the size of an ant, the
youngster learns how the other half lives and survives. Under-rated
picture that has good messages for the kiddies and will keep them
occupied on rainy afternoons. A bit slow-moving and old hat for
hardened adults, but still more upside nonetheless. Julia Roberts and
Nicolas Cage are the two biggest names in a strong cast that lends
their voices to their cartoonish alter egos. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film today with my 8 year old daughter, really with
out knowing too much about it. My daughter and i were pleasantly
surprised at how funny it was. Nick Cage was pretty good as the wizard
ant, Bruce Campbell was funny too but the highlight was Paul Giamatti
as Stan the exterminator.

*Spoiler*

There is a scene later in the film that might be disturbing to younger
viewers, in the frog's stomach there's a floating bug head. my 8 year
old could handle it OK but it might scare a younger child. I would
recommend this film for the whole family, apart from the usual main
character learns a lesson in the end.( do they always have to learn a
lesson?)funny bits enough to over look the "message" at the end. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
'Ant Bully' is another cute animated film with ants. Many might compare
it to Dreamworks's 'Antz' and if I'm told to pick one, then 'Ant Bully'
is the better one. Of course the story isn't anything new per se but it
moves at a steady pace and the characters are very likable. Besides,
there's no harm in enjoying some laugh-out-loud moments. For me it was
a good 90 minutes spent laughing as I was watching it with my mom and
little sister (who enjoyed it too). Voice talents include names like
Nicolas Cage, Lily Tomlin, Julia Roberts, Meryl Streep, Paul Giamatti
and many more. All of them do fairly well, though Cage appears to sound
a little theatrical urban. The animation is brilliant. I especially
like how the aunt 'colonization' was created with vibrant colours and
attention to detail. Watch out for some cute shorts of the ants. All in
all, this is a cute film to enjoy with the family.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. I would recommend this film for the whole
family. The message was simple and straightforward. It is your basic
good vs. evil. I had really good laughs, enjoyed being there. The
audience seemed to enjoy this movie very much. There was a lot of
laughter and many people stayed to watch the colorful visuals at the
end. Also I think it's better than "CARS" which is seem to be very
boring to me!!! ........... ............. ...............

By the way, there are comments from other viewers complaining about
hidden meanings and may feel the script was taken from the book of Karl
Marx which is outrage and misjudge for the film. Also Marx's book is
all about capitalism!!! I really don't get the negative reviews for
this movie!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This one is just a formulaic rehash of stuff we've seen and heard
before. There's not much of a story here, and the characters are paper
thin cutouts with the voices of bored celebs who wanted some extra milk
money between films.

A kid gets shrunk by some ants who he blasted with a garden hose. You
don't even see him get shrunk (wasn't this an animated film?); he just
wakes up next to his giant underwear. The 21st Century society colony
of ants decide to "teach him our ways," and the moral (whatever it is)
of the film has been sloppily served up. If you hear a snoring noise,
that's your kids who have nodded off by now from the blank-page
scripting. You'll probably follow them in the next few minutes; this
one is definitely a cure for insomniacs. If the dead-end story doesn't
anesthetize you, the lame cultural one-liners will.

The baddie is ripped off directly from Over the Hedge, with all the
trimmings: smoking, evil laughing, overweight etc. He wasn't funny in
that movie; he's even worse here. Battles between the ants and the bad
guy are CGI splashes of color and out of focus images. Why? Because
there really isn't anything to see. Somebody's always following a long
distance, with the same blurry effect, and for the same blurry reason.

Good to torment a disobedient child with, or to put a hyper one to
sleep. But that's all.
