
Whenever a movie mistakenly thinks a bad pun of a tagline ("Dupree's a
crowd" anyone?) is gonna rope in ye olde movie-going audience, there is
officially room to be concerned with what you're about to watch. OK, so
the tagline isn't as bad as some, but it is enough to raise a red flag.
However, is it enough to indicate what's to come? 

Welp, I'm happy to say that once again I'm gonna keep my distance from
all your unfavorite (I'm makin' up words, baby!) stuffed-shirt critics
out there who are giving You, Me and Dupree a merciless shredding
because it doesn't meet the inherent level of pretension they so
girlfriendlessly demand. That's right, folks. I, Johnny Betts, enjoyed
You, Me and Dupree. I'm one of about three movie reviewers to boldly
make that claim, but doggone on it, I'm sticking by it.

Granted, my enjoyment was heightened due to the fact that I kept my
expectations low and didn't have to pay to see the movie, but I was
entertained all the same.

It's only fair that I be perfectly honest and admit I'm somewhat easily
amused when it comes to watching actors and actresses that I really
like, and Dupree sports a great cast. Mileages will vary depending on
your tolerance level of the actors involved.

Owen Wilson is one of my constant comedic favorites, once again
displaying that crooked nose we all love and projecting child-like
innocence with his signature charm. I also love his ability to
sincerely deliver outrageous and cheesy lines in ways that make them
seem not quite so outrageous or silly.

Then there's Kate Hudson, only the absolute cutest thing that Hollywood
has going for it. She plays this role a little more low key than usual,
but she's still irresistible, evidenced by her black bikini scene where
she proves that she inherited what was always her mom's best *ahem*
asset.

Rounding out the cast, straight-man Matt Dillon's cool as always, and
Seth Rogen, though woefully underused, brings an impressive
laughs-to-screen time ratio. Most of you will remember him from The 40
Year-Old Virgin, but he'll always be Ken Miller and Ron Garner to me.
If neither of those names means anything to you then we need to have a
serious talk about a couple of DVD sets you might want to consider
acquiring.

Is this a film that'll find its way to the top of any of these actors'
resumes? No. Is it a non-stop laugh-fest? No. Is it a film I can watch
over and over and cry with laughter every time? Nah. Will you be
disappointed if you're expecting something along the lines of The
Wedding Crashers? Most likely.

After all, I never said the movie doesn't have its flaws. Some of the
humor is a little too conventional and predictable, and the dramatic
dialogue isn't exactly the most compelling to grace the screen, so no,
this isn't gonna go down in the Book of Comedy Classics, nor do I feel
a necessity to pencil it in as a future addition to my DVD collection
(unless the special features are loaded with Kateness). But I found it
to be a fun, light-hearted, silly way to take a 2-hour break from the
real world. As I mentioned in the paragraphs above, its greatest
strength is in its likable cast and their chemistry, and I appreciate
the charm it displayed in never taking itself too seriously.

Plus, the majority of the screening crowd seemed to enjoy it. I've
personally never had nor been a third wheel like Dupree, but those of
you who can relate to such an experience might appreciate it on a
different level.

I can't say that You, Me and Dupree is a film that just absolutely
demands to be seen on the big screen, but it's certainly the kind of
movie that you usually watch with friends and family where most
everyone will walk away with a good chuckle, no one will be overly
offended, Aunt Ella will comment on how "it was cute," no one's life
will be dramatically altered, and Uncle Larry's uninvited segue into
some boring recollections about his own "Dupree" experiences will wake
everybody back up to their nightmare reality.

All in all, if you think no one can bring seven different kinds of
smoke like Owen Wilson, and you find Kate Hudson to be seven different
kinds of smokin' then there's something here for you to enjoy. Be it at
a matinée or as a future rental. It might just help you discover your
"ness." 

THE GIST 

You, Me and Dupree might not deliver two solid hours of nothing but
out-loud laughter and the dramatic elements might falter at times, but
there's no denying that the cast is great, and if you love those
involved then you'll find some enjoyment here. I wouldn't pay more than
matinée prices, and if you don't have a lot of spending money to throw
around then just save it for a rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night a friend coaxed me into seeing "You, Me and Dupree." Even
though I have liked all four of its principal actors for years, I
hadn't planned on seeing it last night or possibly ever. The reviews
have been uniformly terrible, so I was expecting the worst. I sat in a
movie theater that was perhaps one-third full, and I was waiting for
the boredom to set in, which the critics said was comingin spades.

Yes, Owen Wilson has bleached-blond locks, again, but that is probably
the only accurate comment in any of the reviews that I saw, and I must
have read at least ten of them, from various parts of the country. He
was very good, as he was in the "Wedding Crashers." Kate Hudson was
perky as always, and did a splendid job; and anyone who has loved her
mother over the years will find Goldie's "clone" just as lovely as
ever.

Matt Dillon did a terrific job, and was totally believable comically;
and Michael Douglas was very good too, playing his character with
aplomb. In short, it was a very funny movie, and quite refreshing given
the alternatives; namely, movies that are loaded to the gills with
special effects, which jar one's cranium to the uttermost.

It seems like the critics were in lock step in panning this film, which
may be driving away audiences unfairly. Indeed, this may be a perfect
example of the critics being wrong, dead wrong. Go see it in a theater,
or buy a DVD when it comes out, and my guess is that you will not be
disappointed one iotaand may actually love it. All four principal
actors are perfectly balanced, and they are strong enough to be
wonderful foils to one another.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big fan of Owen Wilson when he's in the right genre. He has
proved to be a considerably good talent in drama as well, but comedy is
his real niche. The whole "Frat Pack" sub-genre that is popular right
now is where he most belongs, and as such "You, Me and Dupree" offers
what one would expect from a comedy starring Owen Wilson as a slacker
who leeches off of people.

What I didn't expect from this comedy was its dark side. Matt Dillon's
character turns pretty nasty and his relationship with wife Kate Hudson
gets rough. Likewise his confrontational scenes with Michael Douglas
seem to betray the lighter attitude of the scenes involving Dupree
(Wilson). The movie has a few twists and turns that I didn't expect -
when I saw the ads I figured it would be an OK-but-forgettable movie
about a guy crashing in a newly-married couple's house, end of story:
but there's actually more to the story here. It doesn't necessarily
make it stand out (it's not a very good film) - but the movie moves
away from Dupree being a pest and actually begins to focus on Dillon's
growing anger towards his friend as he believes him to be developing a
crush on his wife. The whole subplot with Douglas' character (playing
the father of Hudson) becomes quite prominent in the film as well. This
is where it really takes a turn for the worse.

Whereas for the first hour or so is fun and predictable in the vein of
Wilson's other films, once it begins trying to develop a "showdown" of
sorts between all its characters it gets to be too much. The ending
sequence involving Wilson being chased by a Samoan security guard is
way over-the-top and betrays the realistic roots of the movie.

I also didn't care much for Dillon's character. I could relate to his
frustration but he almost seemed TOO realistic for this film. You know
when critics complain in these movies about how clichéd the "nice guy"
characters always are? Well Dillson isn't a nice guy in this movie -
he's got a hot temper and loses his cool a bunch of times in the movie.
Towards the end he's like a mad, violent alcoholic and I started to
feel like Dupree should end up with his wife instead.

Overall the first hour of this movie is fun and entertaining and has
its fair share of humorous segments - I laughed a lot when Dupree burns
down a house and at some of the early jokes involving his interaction
with old buddies - but the movie obviously realizes this isn't enough
of a plot for a 90-minute feature and tries to develop other plot lines
3/4 of the way through, and that's when it gets tiresome. The ending
ultimately left a bad taste in my mouth and felt tacky. It seemed like
a last-minute ending that was filmed after poor test screenings. A
relationship crisis involving Dupree is never even resolved in the
movie - as if the crew totally forgot about it.

I guess I would have left the theater feeling more fulfilled if perhaps
the film had continued as a lightweight "frat pack"-style comedy rather
than trying to rise above other genre entries. I acknowledge the film's
attempts at becoming "more" than just another comedy of this type - but
they chose the wrong path and just made it worse. In this case it's an
example of a shallow movie trying too hard to be something else.

I liked it, and I was entertained, but it's better left as a rental and
only if you're a fan of the actors. (By the way, it's worth mentioning
that apart from Wilson's hilarious performance, Kate Hudson really
impressed me and had more of a realistic role than women do in most of
these sorts of films. You can't slam "You, Me and Dupree" for not at
least trying.)
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie tonight not expecting much based on the HORRIBLE
reviews given to this movie on IMDb and critics reviews in today's
paper. I was pleasantly surprised to find this to be another sweet
movie about two male buddies that are learning to grow up. 

Owen Wilson was adorable and his character was not a loser. Dupree (I
won't give away his real name because it surprises you when it comes up
in the movie...) gives sage advice throughout the movie. In one scene
is he standing in for Matt Dillon's character at a career day, in
Molly's (Kate Hudson) 3-4? grade classroom. He tells the kids that some
of them will go on to traditional or socially acceptable success, while
some of them (pods, he calls them!) will "float" for a while, while
they wait for the calling from the "mother ship" for their destined
path in life. He says "the pods that needed to hear this, did," and I
laughed my butt off. His "floating pod" theory was hysterical and very
accurate.

It sounds ridiculous, but it isn't. Dupree's character is consistent
throughout as a lovable guy looking for his path. He's a smart,
charismatic guy that makes lots of mistakes along the way. Of course
the previews showed all the stupid humor (bathroom jokes, jacking off,
etc) but it doesn't play as crazily over the top in the movie as it is
edited for in previews. 

I think the movie was as fun as it was because of the great casting. No
one else could have been Michael Douglas' character (besides perhaps
James Caan but he might have been too scary) and NO ONE could have done
Dupree like Owen Wilson, because Dupree IS Owen Wilson. 

If you're like me and you like Owen Wilson movies, you'll really enjoy
this movie.

PS: There is a (hush hush) cameo in this movie when you least expect it
and you'll laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of You, Me and Dupree is that Carl Peterson (Matt Dillon)
marries his boss's daughter, Molly (Kate Hudson), and then his best
man, Dupree (Owen Wilson) stays with them after losing his job and all
his earthly possessions.

You, Me and Dupree is bad. First and foremost, it's tedious. It has no
real direction. Things happen, and a few minutes later, it doesn't
matter that they've happened. You sit there and watch 108 minutes of
meaningless, witless anecdotes that involve the same people, but have
no real bearing on their lives.

As far as the characters go, they really aren't characters, and they
really don't go anywhere. We never learn how Carl and Molly met, or why
they love one another other than that they have sex a lot. Carl says
stuff like, "Molly is the best thing that's ever happened to me," but
we see no proof of it. Dupree is a little eccentric, but it's all been
done before. I don't know anyone in real life who is as boring as the
rest of the characters with the exception of Carl's father-in-law, Mr.
Thompson (Michael Douglas). But neither Dupree nor Thompson perform
with enough absurdity to make the movie work.

The movie is too long and unfunny to be a comedy. And it's not that I'm
opposed to body humor, it's that the movie doesn't even try to be funny
for huge segments. I laughed with the rest of them when Dupree broke up
Carl and Molly's intimacy because of his emergency with the "crapper."
The movie needs more of that, instead of trying to sustain drama and
characters that aren't there.

Once, I felt that the movie was actually taunting me. Owen Wilson
watches a clip from Roman Holiday, a film starring Gregory Peck and
Audrey Hepburn. As he and I saw that clip, I thought to myself, "Why am
I not watching that?!" Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn. Owen Wilson and
Kate Hudson. Hrm..... Which should I pick?
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say, You, Me and Dupree was pleasantly surprising. I had
expected it to be something along the lines of Wedding Crashes, and I
am pleased to say that You, Me and Dupree was nothing like it (although
don't get me wrong, Wedding is a great movie). Dupree was in a sense
predictable and certain scenes were drawn out, but the overall plot was
cute and the movie itself had some memorable moments, including yet
another great performance from Michael Douglas. You, Me and Dupree was
a charming and delightful comedy that was at times predictable, and had
the occasional irritating character, but was still worth the money, and
worth seeing again. If you're looking for an easy going, light hearted
movie with that isn't shallow, You, Me and Dupree I highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly liked it. It was funny, had a good story line, and even
though it ended like I predicted, it was cute. Yes, Owen Wilson is
playing his usual character, but it suits him best, so I say let him do
it. Kate Hudson and Matt Dillon are a cute couple and they did a great
job in this movie. Plus, Matt Dillon is a good-looking man, even for a
forty-sum year old!

Although I enjoyed the movie, as well as the acting, Michael Douglas
did not impress me at all. He didn't have much of a relevant part in
the movie, other than distracting "Carl" from his home life. Also, I
felt it dragged on a bit. But, overall, I enjoyed it, and the others
with me in the theater did too.
<|_=00=_|>
Randy DuPree(Owen Wilson,as laid-back and off-beat as ever) is the kind
of friend that people sit and talk about: a kooky,non-conventional sort
who means well but finds a way to get himself or others into trouble.
He's got an almost savant-like way about him,an ability to learn stuff
and self-motivate,but he's also pretty much living in the moment,still
knowing how to have fun. 

And shortly after his buddy Carl(Matt Dillon)gets married to Molly(Kate
Hudson),DuPree's now in need of a home. Being almost life-long
friends,Carl agrees to help out DuPree,believing he's only going to be
on their hands "for a few days,until he gets back on his feet".

So begins the premise of this movie,where DuPree's persona of ease
clashes with the straight,upright(read:grown-up)lifestyle of his
married friends. 

For the most part,this movie is just like DuPree
himself:laid-back,funny and earnest. For the most part it works,in
large part due to the fact that the principles in the story
Wilson,Dillon and Hudson are able to fill their roles perfectly and
play off of each other evenly. My biggest problem with the movie was
the fact that it seemed like it was never too sure WHICH DuPree it was
trying to bring forth:the doofy,kid-like slacker or the savant-like
potential jack-of-all trades. Also,the relationship shifts in the movie
were so sharp that one might be confused and/or skeptical of just how
well this would play out.Directors Anthony and Joe Russo don't seem to
have any problem with this,opting to go with a fast flow of jokes and
character interplay.

While I sorta get why this film hasn't been getting great reviews,I
still think this film is a fun summer flick. I suppose if you like this
DuPree character,then you're gonna appreciate this movie,because it is
mostly built around him,as per the subject summary line.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I was expecting too much. I was kinda expecting another "Wedding
Crashers". You know, a funny comedy. Boy! Was I wrong! Dupree can in NO
WAY be described as funny. Inane, maybe. Stupid, probably. Bad,
definitely. The usually great cast of Kate Hudson, Matt Dillon, Owen
Wilson and Michael Douglas are let down by a puerile script. The
humour, such as it is, relies on physical and childish gags. The
characters are difficult to empathise with, Matt Dillons character
childish and selfish, Owen Wilson's shallow and lazy, Kate Hudson's
ditzy and self-absorbed and Michael Douglas's as mean and nasty.
Definitely NOT a date movie. Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
I looked at my watch during this movie, as i was bored and realized i
was at a comedy and one hour had passed and not even a chuckle had come
out of me. 

The situation seemed like there could have been so much to be done with
it. Later in the movie i was able to laugh, it was cute when he came
out of the house. While on a date. Michael Douglas an extremely fine
actor and i assume a wealthy man, why was he doing something like this?
I suppose they don't know how bad it could be until it gets completed.
He did not even seem believable as Kate Hudson's father.

i advise you to wait until you can see it at a cheap theater.

burnor-1
