
This movie got an A rating in the Cleveland Plain Dealer from a film
reviewer I have long respected, so I took advantage of a free late
afternoon to go see it on the day it opened.

It's a shame the review was so positive, because it made my
disappointment that much greater.

There is very little in this movie that is funny. (The audience I saw
it with almost never laughed.) Most of the parodies are simplistic and
flat and don't say anything clever about the subjects they are
lampooning.

Take the extended water ballet sequence that is meant as a send-up of
Esther Williams movies. The sequence itself looks like a poor man's
version of one of the numbers in *Jupiter's Daughter*. Scarlett
Johannson looks frightened all the while she's up in the air in that
little basket, but not frightened enough to be funny. And then?
Nothing. The number ends as it would in an Esther Williams movie, and
there is unfunny dialogue with the swimming character concerning her
pregnancy.

And so it goes throughout the movie. Things happen, but there is no
followup. There are parodies of different types of movies popular in
the 1940s and 50s, but the parodies aren't clever or insightful. George
Clooney's character gets kidnapped by left-wing script writers, but
those scenes don't tell us anything about the black-listed
screenwriters of the era.

Etc.

Some of the reviews on here say the movie is terrible, some think this
movie is the best thing since sliced cheese. It's neither extreme. It's
just a largely flat comedy, with too few laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
The Coen Brothers are heroes of mine. They travel from universe to
universe remaining true to themselves. Hail, Caesar should have been ,
I thought, a familiar universe for them but they seem lost. A journey
without a clear destination. There are, of course, a few pleasures
along the road. The scene between Alden Ehrenreich and Ralph Finnes is
a gem. Alden Ehrenreich is a breath of fresh air with vintage breezes
that are exciting, compelling and totally disarming. The tap dance
routine with Channing Tatum is also a lot of fun even if I can't quite
get Channing Tatum. Great body and he can dance but he seems to be
somewhere else. Impossible to connect on the screen with him. I hear he
gets millions of dollars per movie so maybe it's just me. The opposite
of George Clooney who launches himself body and soul to every moment he
has on the screen. I will shut up now and wait for the next Coen
Brothers movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After the phenomenal and emotional roller-coaster of "Inside Llewyn
Davis," a film that still hasn't found the audience it so desperately
deserves, Joel and Ethan Coen followup arguably their best film with
one that might be their most forgettable. "Hail, Caesar!" is a
disappointment of epic proportions; an empty, unfocused satire on
Hollywood business that has too many characters fighting for too little
screen time, almost no energy despite attempting to work with a
high-stakes plot, no strong character relationships despite the fact
that everyone is trying to get a word in at all times during the course
of the film, and finally, no central conflict that results in the
characters ostensibly mustering up any kind of energy. If the
characters themselves barely care about the situations they're in, why
should we, the audience, who is now out of the high cost of a movie
ticket? 

The film revolves around a Hollywood mogul Eddie Mannix (Josh Brolin),
who is hired to help fix the troubled production of a Hollywood epic
known as "Hail, Caesar!." The film stars the famous Baird Whitlock
(George Clooney), who winds up being drugged on-set and kidnapped by a
radical group of communists that call themselves "The Future." Mannix
is tasked with giving the group $100,000 in exchange for his star
actor.

The Coen brothers spend much of the film hopscotching from different
characters and different sets in what feels like a setup for a
mini-series rather than a one-hundred minute film. Such characters are
Laurence Laurentz (Ralph Fiennes), a very meticulous director, Thora
and Thessaly Tacker (both played by Tilda Swinton), rival, twin-sister
gossip columnists, Hobie Doyle (Alden Ehrenreich), a low-rent Western
actor-turned-movie-star, who is one of Mannix's closest clients,
DeeAnna Moran (Scarlett Johansson), an actress who becomes pregnant out
of wedlock in the middle of her film, and Burt Gurney (Channing Tatum),
a Gene Kelly-type actor, also working under the order of Mannix, who
winds up at the center of the film's outstanding dance sequence between
a group of Coast Guard members about to embark on a nautical mission
that will prevent them from seeing a dame for months.

"Hail, Caesar!" is a film of moments, meaning that, once the film is
over, you'll remember certain scenes you enjoyed, certain actors'
cameos (which most of the aforementioned are) you appreciated, and if
you're lucky, lines you can quote verbatim. At the end of the day, the
sporadic humor that those little moments provide is not enough to
recommend a film. The Coen brothers don't seem to know what direction
they want to take this film, and with such a concise runtime, they have
no time to make good use of the actors they probably paid quite a bit
to show up on set for one day. This gives the film the look and feel
that most of these A-list stars are simply fighting over screen time,
and that isn't funny, especially when you have true talent being only
momentarily showcased so the film can dart off to the next decorated
setpiece.

Then there's the issue of the film just not having much life to it
outside of immaculate costume design and some strong cinematography
(done by Roger Deakins, one of Hollywood's most masterful
cinematographers working today). Because the actors aren't given
characters to work with, no real energy or interest builds for them,
and neither do character relationships. What we were supposed to gain
from the scene involving Jonah Hill (who is on-screen for maybe a
minute and a half) and Scarlet Johansson where Johansson's DeAnna asks
Hill's Joseph if pressing down on the machine that stamps the papers
hurts his forearm? Was this sort of flirtation so necessary that it
needed to be included, or were the Coen's too busy giggling under their
breath to notice? 

"Hail, Caesar!" is overpopulated with scenes that don't work to further
what little plot is here, and with such a high-stakes story about a
lead actor being kidnapped by a band of communists, Clooney's Braid
Whitlock doesn't seem too phased, Brolin's Mannix, who has never been a
particularly strong actor to show real emotion or gusto in his
personals, doesn't seem too concerned, so what is there left for us to
care about? 

Some comparison has been made between both "Hail, Caesar!" and Wes
Anderson's "The Grand Budapest Hotel," and while the two have a similar
approach to dry wit and deadpan humor, as well as similar actors like
Fiennes and Swinton, Anderson's picture was a perfect example of
copious energy and exhilarating, rapid-fire comic exchanges. "Hail,
Caesar!" is the exact opposite; a frequently dull and almost entirely
uninteresting film, predicated upon the strength of a few great scenes
and some decent, albeit far, far too short, performances in a
thoroughly muddled picture.
<|_=00=_|>
HAIL CAESAR! ("A Story of the Christ", as we are told in the title
card) is one of those offbeat gems that I have no doubt grows in
affection with repeated viewings. Folks here complain that it's not a
laugh-a-minute farce, that it's not this, that it's not that...

Here's what it *is*: the film version of RADIO DAYS. 

Just like Allen made a loving pastiche of radio at its height in the
1940s, so have the Coens done for film at the tail end of its Silver
Screen era, when studios manipulated its contract players and worked
the media to prevent the "unfortunate" aspects from being revealed to
an audience that just wanted escapism fantasy. Josh Brolin is the
tightly-wound studio "head of physical production", an enforcer who's
being seduced by a potential job with Lockheed to oversee work on the
atom bomb. Before he can come to a decision about whether or not take
it, he has to deal with the sudden disappearance of the slightly
disconnected-from-reality George Clooney (who looks like he's having a
blast in this, especially in the final scene of his big budget
sword-and-sandel Jesus epic). Along the way, we see the Coens' take on
Esther Williams, Carmen Miranda, Gene Kelly, and a host of other stars
from the era...

... and this is what makes the film so damn much fun. It's not about
the story, it's about how the Coens are celebrating the films we have
perhaps idealized a bit too much: Esther Williams' underwater ballets
and Gene Kelly in NYC for 24 hours and Gary Cooper trying to play it in
a toney, high-class period drama. There are so many references to the
great films of the day that if you blink, you'll miss a few Â— they
follow fast and furious and sometimes with little more than a sly wink.
If you are an old time movie buff, you will love this film to tiny
little bits. If not... well, you probably wont enjoy it all that much.

But then the Coens probably didn't make it for you, did they...
<|_=00=_|>
Listen closely. We don't have much time because the film snobs will
start banging the NOT USEFUL button and this review will disappear into
the IMDb ether.

This film almost makes you wonder if the Coen Bros are caught in some
sort of Star Trek time paradox and are doing their films backwards. If
they had started with this film 32 years ago, the critics would say
there were some clever set-pieces and the cinematography was superb but
the concept should never have been greenlighted and the script was
wretched. From such humble beginnings, in 2016, the Coen Bros would
then be able to deliver BLOOD SIMPLE and probably win multiple Oscars
for their "growth" as film makers.

But in real time, 32 years after Blood Simple, this film is so bad that
people were voting with their feet and leaving the theatre at the 1:00
mark (approximately). The story is awful, the dialog is awful, and the
voice-over is bad enough to be used as a "persuasion device" at Gitmo.

George Clooney should get a new agent because there is not enough money
on the planet to compensate him for having to wear a costume that makes
him look fat and bloated and 20 years older than he actually is. Only
Channing Tatum rescues his own dignity in a tribute to Gene Kelly that
actually is entertaining and engaging.

The is an awful film. I have never lied to you before and I am not
going to start now.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Addendum 2-26: Frankly when I penned the above review right after
leaving the theatre, I was not expecting to get involved in a
controversy about how flexible the Coen Brothers were "cross-genres,"
or how clever and eclectic their fans need to be to appreciate the
wonderfulness of this specific work. But since the controversy exists,
I will add that generally the Coens have produced some of best films I
have seen in my lifetime. Inside Llewyn Davis, for example, held my
attention like glue, it was a polished gem. Most of their films are
polished gems. Unfortunately this is not one of them. If you Google,
you will find that, in spite of the sycophantic mainstream critics,
this film has generated the Coens' worst box-office numbers ever. And
that was the point I was trying to make. Viewers instinctively know the
difference between a hit and miss. It's their job -- enjoying films is
why they left home, endured the traffic, and found a parking spot in
the first place. The actors here try hard, I agree, but the story and
the script simply do not connect or resonate or form any empathic bond.
The horror is that the "brothers" really should have known better.
<|_=00=_|>
It looks so good. Really, the feel of 1950s Hollywood has never been
better, the photography is first rate with a stellar cast directed by
the popular and very much held in esteem COEN BROTHERS. Trailer made it
look like an fun Frank Capra kind of film. And when we walked out of
it, given all the above, we missed something. A movie. There is none
here. It is a great job made by talented people aplenty. It wants to be
that fun film but never finds the movie. A few jokes. Not enough.
Quirky fun characters, but not weird enough. Sublots aplenty, but they
never run together and never are resolved. Good acting that goes
nowhere. This fine film is just a bunch of dead end streets that are
way too short with really interesting stuff on the side of the road but
no intersection.

Neil Simon was given script advice once that all the characters have to
meet in the play AT LEAST ONCE. Here, none meet at all. They have the
subplot and that is it. Ending was weak too. Meh.
<|_=00=_|>
Lots of disappointing comments about how this movie does not live up to
the Coen Brothers "standard" (I guess that means laugh-out-loud), is
full of stars who get fleeting screen time, has no plot to speak of, no
great villain or other dramatic concoction to keep up glued to our
seats, etc., etc.

What it is is a funny "day in the life" story of the guy (Eddie
Mannix--superbly played by Josh Brolin) who has to keep some kind of
lid on the craziness that is the studio system of the late 40's/early
50's. Looked at from that character perspective, this is an examination
of one man's struggle not only with the insanity of his star stable
(Clooney/Johansson/Ehrenreich), but with the question the movie
actually revolves around--will Eddie decide to stay, or will he go to
Lockheed, who have offered him a job that will make him more money and
get him home on time for dinner. The confessional scenes that bookend
this movie allow us a fuller glimpse into why Eddie does what he does. 

Brolin allows us to feel the conflict Eddie is experiencing, amidst the
ever rising chaos around him (from a kidnapping, to a possible
paternity suit, to having a cowboy actor take over the part in a
drawing room comedy), to discover he actually likes what he does, and
actually finds a sense of personal worth in handling the
ever-escalating mess that is constantly pressing on him from all sides. 

Brolin's performance is so tight, so controlled and so real, that he is
able to carry that storyline with great vigor and compassion. The rest
of the lunacy, from the underwater Ester Williams scenes, to the Gene
Kelly dance spoof, to the cowboy (Ehrenreich absolutely adorable and on
point) and Carmen Miranda get together, simply provides the backdrop.
You don't need to know any of the Hollywood history to appreciate this
film, other than to know that a good portion of movies, at that time,
were not pot-boiling epics, or racy, foul-mouthed satires, but rather
quiet movies about individual struggle. Brolin keeps that focus
throughout this film, making the ending, just like the movies of the
past, a very happy one.

A very pleasant, clever, and funny effort from the Brothers. Yes, a
send-off, Valentine, if you will. I can see where people who have
enshrined Lebowski as the litmus test for all Coen comedy movies moving
forward would be disappointed. Fact is, the Brothers can play more than
one note.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge Coen Brothers Fan. Many of their films are hard core 10's
in my ratings and I had an uneasy feeling going into this one. The
trailer made me think of Intolerable Cruelty more than O Brother Where
Art Thou or many of their other films.

It felt like a strung together series of little set pieces that didn't
hang together as a whole. I won't mention the plot since there was
virtually none and what there was was fairly flat and unimportant.

Normally the Brothers can overcome a weak plot (although strong
plot-lines have driven several of their movies) with strong quirky
performances and memorable cinematography.

Sadly, the dialog lacked snap, the film didn't pop off the screen looks
wise, given that it's a period piece, and with such a strong cast,
everyone looked tired - almost as if they had come in to film their
parts after getting off their day jobs and they were just doing a favor
to the Coen's.

Overall I've seen much worse but when you go to a Coen Brothers film,
you just expect much more.
<|_=00=_|>
From the previews of this film, I had a high level of anticipation for
the Coen Brothers' latest venture, expecting it to be an hilarious and
satiric romp through the halls of 50's Hollywood. The Coens are
excellent technicians so the riffs on MGM, 50's Hollywood Stars, and
the general machinations of the studio system were very well done. But
I'm afraid the film's achievements were pretty much relegated to this
dimension and overall the film remained in the category which I term
"All Style and No Substance," clever but ultimately delivering a thin
story. Along the way there are some wonderful bits, especially Channing
Tatum singing and tap dancing in a suggestively gay sailor dance
routine, Tilda Swinton playing twin columnists, Alden Ehrenreich doing
some hilarious cowboy stunts on a horse and with a lasso, and Ralph
Fiennes directing in a sort of prissy manner. However, none of the plot
lines ever yielded anything substantive. I found it difficult to figure
out just what the Coen Brothers were attempting with this film.
<|_=00=_|>
HAIL, CAESAR! is one of the worst motion pictures that I have seen in a
long, long time.

There. That should get me on the poster.

A rare misfire by the usually reliable Coen Brothers, HAIL, CAESAR! had
all the earmarks of a good film - veteran script writers and directors,
a stellar cast and a good technical team. So why didn't this work?

Let's start with the marketing. By the previews and the television ads,
this looked like a whimsical farce of a movie by the Coen Brothers.
Call it "Coen Brothers-lite", in the same vein of BURN AFTER READING
and O BROTHER, WHERE ARE THOU? It starred GEORGE CLOONEY as a major
motion picture star of the '50s who is kidnapped by "THE FUTURE". It
takes legendary Hollywood "fixit man", Eddie Mannix (Josh Brolin) to
pull a band of Hollywood types together to find and rescue him.

But, that is not what the movie is about.

It does have a whimsical tone, I'll give them that, but that's about
all that is the same from the previews. The movie isn't about Clooney's
character, it's about a day in the life of Mannix and the many, many
things he needs to fix. Clooney's kidnapping is just one of many
stories/crisisis that Mannix needs to fix and, no, he doesn't
incorporate the other stars to help out. They had their own problems.

Ralph Fiennes is a refined director working with a less than refined
actor (Alden Ehrenreich). Scarlett Johansson is an Esther Williams-
type who is in "the family way" and Channing Tatum is...well, I won't
spoil it.

I waited all movie for these disparate story lines to merge together,
but they never did. They were just different short stories stitched
together to form a movie.

That would be fine, because this movie stars a boatload of Hollywood
celebrities, right? Well, not really...

Ralph Fiennes is in 2 scenes

Scarlett Johansson is in 3.

Channing Tatum is in 3.

Frances McDormand is in only 1 scene, but steals the movie.

Poor ol' Jonah Hill is just in 1 scene, and really, he is in only about
1/2 a scene.

Tilda Swinton has the biggest part of these "stars", she plays twins
who are rival gossip columnists that are each in 2 scenes, so she has
4!

Clooney, does have the largest of the small parts, but it still is just
too little.

The other issue I have is that NONE of these characters (including, and
maybe, ESPECIALLY, Mannix) have any kind of emotional arc. All
characters are basically the same at the end that they were at the
beginning. There really were no "stakes" for anyone, which makes for a
dull movie.

To give the Coen's credit, the move is "made" well. Beautiful shots,
the costumes and sets give off the proper vibe, so it's not a sloppy or
shoddily made movie, it's just not a good movie. They only have 2
people to blame, the writers, which, of course, is themselves. 

If you want to see a good picture about 1950's era Hollywood, check out
TRUMBO.

HAIL, CAESAR!? HAIL, NO!

4 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis)
