
The fact that this movie was allowed to advance past the "script
writing" stage is beyond me.

If I could vote it 0, believe me I would. Watching paint dry would be a
more cultural experience.

They actually re-created scenes from existing comedy movies & virtually
did them note for note. Can somebody explain the word parody to the
film makers??? 

Some of the acting was quite good, it's just a shame that they had so
little to work with to be able to assist with making this pile of junk
watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
This won't be a long review, as this movie doesn't warrant much more
than a warning not to waste your money on it. I'm not sure how a movie
so god-awful can make it to screen, but my faith in the system has been
shaken. The film isn't funny, I'm not sure if it tries to be or not,
but it's not. It references other movies (Meet the Parents, When Harry
met Sally etc.) but doesn't really spoof them. This was the biggest
problem I believe, as it doesn't have any semblance of flow or sense.
Random scenes pop up, trying to get a laugh by basically reenacting the
scene, not exaggerating it or making fun of it. I managed to sit
through House of the Dead, but this film actually made me angry it was
so unfunny. Please skip it, have one of your friends go see it instead
and then ask about it. If they don't knock your teeth out for setting
them up to lose money and 90 minutes of their life, then you can go see
it yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Its true. Everything you've read is true. This really, really, really
is the worst parody ever. This movie was so bad that I spent the entire
ride home from the theater, frustrated that I couldn't come up with the
vocabulary to describe how I felt about it. IT IS NOT FUNNY. I, like
most other people who have seen it, chuckled a few times. The rare
laughs were part genuine enjoyment and part trying to make the best of
a horrible situation. On the whole, though, 98% of this movie is just
mind-numbingly bad. And not just because it has a lot of toilet humor
and fat person jokes. The worst parts of the movie are the ones that
are not only devoid of humor, but they just flat out are so stupid they
don't make sense. I've never had an experience where I've sat through
an hour and a half film and felt like I was watching a bunch of two
minute clips of stupidity that had almost nothing to do with each
other. It was almost surreal how horrible this movie was. Please, do
not go see it. You're welcome.
<|_=00=_|>
This has got to be one of the worst parody movies ever. No, wait -
scratch that. This is one of the worst movies ever. There were so few
laughs in this supposed comedy. They few chuckles I heard from the
audience was a nervous laughter (as in, "I can't believe I wasted my
money on this..."). The toilet humor (literally) was simply retarded,
and a few jokes almost worked... if they were funny. Pretty much all of
the characters were annoying, and most of the parodies themselves were
just unfunny. I really don't know what could have been done to save
this movie and actually make it funny. The concept was great, and "date
movies" are ripe for being made fun of... yet somehow this just wasn't
it.
<|_=00=_|>
My friends and I went into this movie expecting something along the
lines of a dumb but funny movie like "Scary Movie" or "Not another Teen
Movie".

Sad to say, this was the worst movie I've seen since the beginning of
2005. DO NOT see this movie and DO NOT believe the advertisements for
this movie as those scenes were the best parts of the film. I admit, I
laughed during the Napoleon Dynamite skit, but that was probably the
only funny scene in the whole film.

This film is stupid, but not stupid in a funny way. It is stupid in an
EXTREMELY boring way. The only (barely) entertaining parts of the movie
were in the first 10 minutes. The rest of it was filler as the
scriptwriter probably ran out of dumb ideas.

I, along with probably most of the audience, felt like leaving on the
spot. This is a bad film with no redeeming features.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd imagine that the main reason that people are paying to watch this
is because it stars Alyson Hannigan. Well, she's in it, and she makes
the most of a thoroughly unchallenging role, but unless you're a total
completist, that shouldn't be enough of a reason to waste even 80
minutes of your life on this appalling waste of talent.

What the writer/directors seem to have missed is that if you're going
to parody or satirise a scene from a decent movie, you actually have to
add something. It's not sufficient to just throw a bunch of stolen
scenes together in the hope that the conjunction will generate humour
by itself. I honestly could not see one - not ONE - original thought or
idea or line in the script or direction. That in itself is something of
an achievement. The whole thing plays like it was scripted by
teenagers, and not teenagers from the top end of the grade curve.

In fact, I have to wonder if this films is deliberately aimed at the
lowest common denominator. If so, it missed by several yards to the
south.
<|_=00=_|>
My four other friends and I wanted to see a movie that would make us
laugh and have a good time. We narrowed it down to Pink Panther or Date
Movie. We decided on Date Movie. We went to the theater about 15
minutes early and when we first came in we were the only ones there,
which surprised us. By the time the movie started, there were only
three other groups of people, which surprised us. By ten minutes into
the movie, we were no longer surprised. The movie was horrid. It was
full of disgusting jokes, and not just in a sexual way. I was surprised
anyone even bothered making this movie. About 45 minutes in, I was
disgusted and bored. My friends were, too. I'm not the type to walk out
during a movie. I never have before, but this movie was a waste of my
time, the 11 bucks I spent on the ticket, and the five bucks I spent on
popcorn/ candy. I have never seen a movie as bad as this one, and I
have seen a lot of bad movies. Usually I'm not this prude, but this
movie made me worry about our generation.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of the most horrible experiences of my life. With
once having sat through twelve hours of constipation, I have yet to sit
through a dump that was more excruciatingly painful than watching this
two hour film. The worst part is it isn't even two hours, it's eighty
minutes, but it makes you feel like you must have aged four or five
years through this. I feel they must have added in Sophie Monk and
Carmen Electra not because of their amazing acting talent, but because
they felt the humor was so poor they needed to wake people up from this
painfully dumb movie. The audience's reaction to the film provided more
laughs than the actual movie itself. I can't decide whether I find it
comical or depressing that this film managed to parody movie scenes and
make them worse. Truly, the people saying these writers aren't talented
are wrong, it takes an art to be able to make something this bad. The
movie is a complete non sequiter too. In one scene, after the family
has toasted at the rehearsal wedding dinner table, Lil' Jon comes in
and says, "What? Yeah. Okay." and that's the punch line. Seriously,
Hotel Rwanda was funnier than this movie. The film also contains tons
of gross out humor, with a man coughing up a hairball, a woman with a
hairy back, and a cat humping a corpse. Real clever guys. This is the
kind of stuff that makes angels cry, and kills orphan babies. I
would've walked out of this monstrosity had it not been for me hoping
that maybe, just maybe, it might be slightly enjoyable than the
previous torturous minutes. I mean you know something is wrong when the
funniest part of a movie is a cat crapping into a toilet. This film is
only really a mess of parodies thrown together that don't make any
sense. I really have to say it's as witty as it gets when Frodo
delivers a swift kick to the nads of Gandolf, and he screams, "My
precious!" Finally, the ending seemed to have been thrown in to make an
attempt to give the male audience a boner so maybe the wouldn't come
out of the theater asking for a gun. No, the worst travesty is not that
I spent $6.75 on this movie, but that I will never be the same person I
was before. This is the stuff nightmares are made of. Don't go see this
under any circumstances. If your significant other wants to see this,
fake your death. Anyway you can get out of this movie is truly a
blessing.

P.S. My cellphone started ringing during the movie. Why, oh why didn't
I pick it up? Seriously, man eating on the phone would have been more
entertaining than this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Date Movie" is a movie that spoofs romantic comedies. The movie
follows Julia Jones (Alyson Hannigan) as she goes through all the
events that take place in order to marry her prince Grant (Adam
Campbell). This process involves meeting the parents, breaking up,
meeting the ex-girlfriend, planning the wedding and everything else
that the romantic comedy genre has thrown our way. Laughs are supposed
to ensueÂ… 

Just when you thought Hollywood has reached an all time low comes "Date
Movie," a movie that proves that anything can be made into a film in
Hollywood and no matter how bad something is people will dish out their
hard earned money to see it. "Date Movie" is by far the worst pile of
crap I have seen in several years and can possibly go down in the
history of film as being one of the worst movies ever made.

This movie contained zero laughs, none of the spoofs were even remotely
funny. It was an insult to anyone who dished out any kind of money to
see this film. The saddest part about all of this is that I knew before
seeing this movie that it was going to be bad but I didn't think it
could ever be as bad as it actually was. All the jokes fell flat and
half way through its groundbreaking 75 minute running time I wanted to
find a way to end my life so I wouldn't have to sit through another
second of this horrid movie.

There really isn't a positive thing I can say about this movie. The
first question that comes to mind though is who the hell came up with
the idea. Why spoof comedies? Comedies are already funny so why spoof
them? This is a question I wondered when I first heard about the movie
and now after seeing "Date Movie" I know it can't be done and shouldn't
even be attempted. While "Date Movie" only runs 75 minutes they try to
spoof everything they can including Bridget Jones's Diary, Kill Bill,
Say Anything, My Best Friend's Wedding, Napoleon Dynamite, How to Lose
a Guy in 10 Days, My Big Fat Greek Wedding, Hitch, The Bachelor, Meet
the Parents, Sleepless in Seattle, Rize, King Kong, Wedding Planner and
so many more. You would think that one joke would work but in all
honesty not a single one did. You just sit there staring at the screen,
losing your brain cells, and wondering how on earth someone got money
to produce this pile of garbage.

I guess you should know that a movie is really bad when it's not
screened for critics and the trailer tries to sell you a movie by
saying "from 2 of the 6 writers of Scary Movie" but there is always
that small part of me that says it can't be as bad as it looks but in
this case it's worse than it looks. It's a train wreck and if anyone
finds this movie funny I am sorry but there must be something seriously
wrong with you or you are just so incredibly immature.

This movie took 2 people to write and two people to direct. If I ever
meet Jason Friedberg or Aaron Seltzer the writers and directors behind
this crap I will demand that they give me my $6.75 back for paying to
see this movie. These guys have no right what so ever to make a movie
when they put out a movie like "Date Movie." There should be a law in
Hollywood that if your movie is hated by both critics and audiences
alike that you should be placed in a cell and beaten until you write
everyone who watched your film a huge letter of apology. I really
wonder what crap can come out of Hollywood next that can be worse than
this film.

So to sum it up, "Date Movie" sucks, plain and simple. Even if you see
it with little or no expectations you will be disappointed. I despise
everyone who was involved with this movie from the entire cast who
somehow read this script and said this is going to be good to the
interns who didn't walk off the set after the first day of shooting.
Why is it that we have to suffer through movies that are this bad? And
Hollywood wonders why ticket sales are going down because when you pay
$6-$10 to see a movie like "Date Movie" I can totally understand why
people aren't going and would be leery of what Hollywood puts out. This
is the worst film to come out of Hollywood in years even worse than
"Gigli," "Batman and Robin" and "You Got Served." 

MovieManMenzel's final rating for "Date Movie" is a 0 out of ten. This
movie doesn't even deserve a 1 because nothing worked at all and people
shouldn't have to be tortured like this when they see a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm glad I saw this movie for free, because I would not dish out $2 to
see it. The acting is horrible and the parodies of the other movies are
not done well. I don't think I laughed more than twice the entire
movie, and even those were small chuckles. The soundtrack used in the
movie is comprised of simply played out songs that have appeared in
many movies already. Even though the point of the movie was to have
shocking plot twists by referencing various pop culture ideas and
movies, the movie was completely predictable at all times. The only
thing that kept me watching this movie was Alyson Hannigan herself.

Save your money on this one.
