
I don't know why this movie doesn't get more positive recognition; I
thought it was terrific, and I've seen most the feature-length animated
films of the past several years. This holds it own against most of
them.

For an animated film, it has exactly what you want: fantastic colors
and colorful characters -most of them very funny and entertaining to
view and hear - and a good story with some interesting twists to it.
The artwork in this film is just amazing, especially on Blu-Ray. (I've
discovered that's how to watch these new animated movies - in high-def,
because most of them look awesome. This film certainly is no
exception.) There were many times I just wanted the freeze-frame the
picture and take in all the wild artwork. I might do that on a second
viewing.

Also no surprise is Steve Buscemi, who always gets humorous roles in
these animated films and makes everyone laugh. He usually plays a rat,
too. I mentioned that to a friend and he said, "That's because he looks
like one in real life." I wouldn't go that far, but I understand where
he's coming from.

Actually, all the leading voices - Buscemi, John Cusack, Molly Shannon,
Sean Hayes, John Cleese, Jay Leno and more were all great. I'll give a
special nod to the voice that cracked me up more than all the others,
the one of "Hedi," done by Jennifer Coolidge. She was hilarious! 

If you enjoy the famous Frankstein monster story, or wild characters in
a monster-lab-type setting, you should enjoy this parody. It's an
underrated film and looks super on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's clear something out of the way right now : Igor is an animation
movie, but mainly not for children. Kids will not understand most of
the jokes as the topic for most of them are intended for an older
audience. There is, however, a visual comedy that will apply to younger
viewers, but overall I think this movie targeted teenagers and adults.

People will like Igor based on what they expect from the movie. If they
expect it to be like Wall-E and other Pixar movies, you probably will
be disappointed. Igor has it's good sides and bad sides. The visual
side was breathtaking, the setting is beautiful, with unorthodox
character design. However in some cases, like the king of malaria, it
seemed like a copy of Nightmare Before Christmas' mayor, and that was
disappointing. The story is not too bad, but not the best. It lacked a
bit of depth at some times, but it is still amusing and entertaining.

Overall Igor is a good animation movie. It's not the best, definitely
not the worst. It's definitely worth seeing for animation fans, people
who like Tim Burton's work (as the design in the movie is similar to
his style), and anyone who wants to enjoy a light story with a happy
ending.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of CG animation and cheesy horror, I was really looking
forward to this one. It wasn't as good as I had hoped, and not nearly
as good as it *could* have been, given the talent. But the premise was
nicely original, and the actors put in some good performances. Steve
Buscemi steals almost every scene he's in, and Eddie Izzard was really
good. Jennifer Coolidge was another standout, as was Sean Hayes. I
think Cusack made a very funny character, certainly more fun to watch
than the Disney lead in The Hunchback of Notre Dame. The animation
style is very reminiscent of The Nightmare Before Christmas and The
Corpse Bride. Overall, I really enjoyed it. It was a nice break from
the steady diet of comic book films and action films I've had this
summer.
<|_=00=_|>
King Malbert (Jay Leno) rules the world of mad scientists with flashy
clothes and dark storm clouds. As such, the mad scientists all clamor
for the honor of winning the royally-sponsored "Science Fair". Each
scientist has their own right arm, an Igor, with optional Lorre-esquire
manner. When one scientist's efforts leave nothing but his actual right
arm, however, his Igor (John Cusack) sees a chance at greatness, in
activating his own monster. But is he too good to be evil? This one's a
sleeper in every sense, which is kind of a good thing. Although it's a
grand year for animation, with ambitious offerings from many studios,
sometimes you look for something a little simpler. Igor excels at that.
There are just a few things that keep it out of the "great" category,
so let's point those out first. Technically, there are a few instances
when the lip-sync is off, probably due to shuttling, as noted below. A
noticeable number of the jokes (and a couple of songs) have the feel of
being recycled from other animated films, which is never good. This
being an animated comedy, that naturally hampers the story a bit.
Although pop culture references (a recurring complaint on various
message boards) are kept to a bare minimum, the ones used...well, grate
on the nerves a bit.

The good parts: the film is beautiful to look at, in a "Tim Burton"
fashion. The tight animation is well-serviced in digital; a feat in
itself, since the credits reveal that this thing was literally made
around the world. Visuals of the environment are consistently stunning.
The stylized design does help to endear you to the characters, who
themselves are a parade of great ideas, with voice talent that shows
some thought. Examples include Igor's pals: the surly Scamper (Steve
Buscemi), a reanimated roadkill rabbit, with the tire track to prove
it, and Brian (Sean Hayes), a disembodied brain in a machine, named by
way of dyslexia. There's also invisible talk show host Carl Cristall
(voiced most appropriately by Arsenio Hall) and the villain's
girlfriend, a shallow, multi-personality fashion plate called Jaclyn
Heidi (well-voiced by Jennifer Coolidge). Even the James Lipton cameo
is oddly appropriate.

So, in short, what works really works, and what doesn't really doesn't.
It will likely be a welcome dollar peep once Halloween is closer.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great animated film. A little twisted fun! The actors were
great and the music was such a nice surprise! Clever, clever, clever.
Steve Buscemi as a suicidal rabbit and Sean Hayes as a STUPID brain
play so well off one another! Jennifer Coolidge is one of my favorites
and she doesn't disappoint. She plays two characters and is great.
Arsenio Hall was really funny. Welcome back Arsenio! I haven't been
familiar with Eddie Izzard's work, but he does such a wonderful job on
this film. I would definitely watch the age of the child you bring.
Eight and older seems appropriate. This movie is a good mix of dark and
light. Adults and children can appreciate this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my daughters (7 and 3) to see this movie today, knowing
absolutely nothing other than seeing about 5 seconds of a TV
commercial. I am normally relatively picky about what my kids see, but
decided to join a friend who was going anyway. Plus my daughter loves
Tim Burton, and this was at least stylistically similar.

I thought this movie had a cool twisted sense of humor, and much more
original than the typical warmed over rehashes we normally get from a
lower-budget CGI flick. And guess what- not a single fart joke! That
alone means it meets my very low expectations for what passes as
children's entertainment these days. Unofortunately, I think it is a
little too off- kilter for most, thus the small marketing budget as
well.

A nice little take on the classic Shelley Frankenstein tale. Not sure
why the accusations of Nightmare Before Christmas rip-off, Frankenstein
was obviously the source material for this story. Which is a very good
thing in my opinion. Me and my daughters liked it a lot.
<|_=00=_|>
In this animated comedy adventure, John Cusack plays the titular
character, a sweet, intelligent lab assistant to an evil mad scientist
who creates life, much to the chagrin of the mad-scientist community,
in the, uh, person of a giantess named Eve. Although it's completely
computer animated, the movie recalls such stop-motion-animation fare as
The Nightmare before Christmas and the recent Coraline, not to mention
the old Universal monster classics, whose old clich√©s get tweaked a few
times.

Igor (it's both his name and his profession) works for Dr. Glickenstein
(John Cleese), who's desperately trying to make an evil invention to
enter into the Evil Scientists Fair. See, King Malbert (Jay Leno)
believes that the town can prosper only through these evil inventions,
what with the farming community destroyed by climate change. Meanwhile,
Igor - our Igor - is much smarter than he lets on, as Igors are
stereotypically supposed to be dumb, slurring oafs good only for
fetching things and pulling switches. Igor, in fact, has already made
two inventions - a snide, suicidal-yet-immortal rabbit (Steve Buscemi),
and a dumb robot with a brain (Sean Hayes).

Circumstances lead Igor to try to make his own evil entry - the
creation of life itself, something the real evil scientists have never
been able to accomplish. The result: Eva, a giant, giant, giantess
who's... well, not evil. This is because her Evil Bone must be
activated, see; to do so, Igor even takes her to get brainwashed, but
instead of horror images Eva somehow watches an episode of Inside the
Actor's Studio with James Lipton, so when she emerges she's a
struggling actress who's on her way to a big audition.

Personally, I found this movie a whole lot of fun, probably because a)
I love the old monster movies that are just skewered here and b) I love
animated movies, too. John Cusack, one of my all-time favorites (I've
seen more than thirty of his films) is great as the not-quite-evil lab
assistant, and the animation is top notch, with wonderfully realized
backgrounds that recall those old monster movies quite well. Steve
Buscemi is an absolute hoot as Scamper, easily stealing every scene
he's in - he gets all the great lines, but it's Buscemi's comic timing
that make them come alive. So to speak. There's also a contextually
perfect soundtrack, including a bouncy tune by Louis Prima called "The
Bigger the Figure." Molly Shannon, who voices Eva, also delivers a fun,
appealing performance.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed "Igor" because its messages, humour, the characters, the cast
chosen and the CGI was terrific. The messages explain that we all can
be evil, but we do not have to be evil and can make our own decisions -
an incredibly good message that all too few people in this world seem
to grasp. The humour can be dark and slapsticky some of the time, but
there are a great deal of very entertaining one-liners. The characters
are all likable, even the baddies (the most featured baddie, voiced by
Eddie Izzard, is extremely good and mainly because of Izzard). All of
them are well-planned and have an important part in the film. The cast
chosen were very good, including the comics Eddie Izzard (mentioned
earlier) and John Cleese (he hardly appears, but is an important
character). The CGI is almost always dark, a sort of creepy purplish
colour. All of the characters, objects and places in the film are well-
animated. While they do not look realistic, they still look impressive.

In "Igor" (which is based on Frankenstein), we come to the kingdom of
Malaria, where everything is evil and the sun never shines. In the
kingdom are a group of evil scientists who make evil, destroying
inventions each year for the annual evil science fair. The scientists
have hunchbank servants, all called Igor. There is one Igor who is
slightly different from the rest. He wants to be more than just another
"Igor", he wants to be an evil scientist. He has already created an
immortal rabbit (who does not want to live) and a robot with a big
brain - a rather idiotic brain, I hasten to add. Will Igor manage to
live up to his dreams, and create an invention to win the science
fair..?

I recommend this fun, watchable film to people over the ages of 8 (this
may look like a children's' film, but some children might be scared
easily by this film, as there are a few gruesome bits), to people who
like madcap creepy fantasy films and to people who like CGI animation.
Enjoy "Igor!" :-)
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was funny and entertaining for me and the kids. Not nearly as
scary as "Nightmare before Christmas" for kids. The Igor character is
likable and the sidekicks are excellent. The voice talent is matched up
with the characters very well. This is one of the best kids films we
have been to see at the theaters in a few years. It is right up there
with Cars. We may go see this movie again at the theater and I am sure
the DVD will keep the kids entertained again. It is great that an
independent company can produce an entertaining film and we don't have
to just wait to see what Pixar puts out. Go see this movie for
yourself, you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I really loved this movie. The music, which happened to be one of my
favorite types of music, was cheerful, compared to what I expected to
hear in the movie. Igor looks as cute and adorable as a puppy with
those big eyed. Brain and Scamper remind me of Billy and Mandy from The
Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy, with Brain being dumb and cheerful
like Billy and Scamper being smarter and grumpy like Mandy. As for Eva,
I think she is very pretty for someone who looks like a giant rag doll.
I love how Igor changed from wanting to be an evil scientist to a nice
person. Also, this movie reminded me of Wall-E. Both Wall-E and Eva had
feelings for someone (Eve and Igor), who didn't seem to have those same
feelings. At some point, both Wall-E and Eva have been changed so that
they don't love, and both Eve and Igor showed how they really feel. And
of course, I have noticed that the couples from both movies
(Wall-E/Eve, Igor/Eva) have the girl being taller than the guy, which
is something I rarely see.
