
A genre movie directed by an artist, Neil Jordan in this particular
case. That is a formula that sometimes works and sometimes doesn't.
This time does, big time and I suspect it has to do with the artist
behind the camera leaving the artist in front of the camera to her own
devices and we all know that Jodie Foster's devices can be miraculous
sometimes. The anguishing feel of solitude permeates Jodie's
performance that's why I imagine Neil Jordan leaving her alone. Her
decisions, I mean the character's and the actress's, seem to have been
taken without consulting anyone. They are as pure as they are insane. I
predict Miss Foster will be up for her third Oscar unless a miracle
happens in the next three months. Well done!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Brave One," is a revenge film that is different then most revenge
films. What director Neil Jordan does to separate this film from others
is that he immerses the audience through the psychology and
consequences when one decides to take the law into their own hands,
rather then focusing on the killing spree and violence of other similar
pictures. 

In "The Brave One," Foster plays a radio talk show host, Erica in New
York City and is caught up in the illusion of a safe, happy life. She's
engaged to a handsome doctor, and carries a distinguished radio show,
but all this crumbles into pieces after a fateful run in with punks in
a park assault Erica and her fiancée, leaving Foster battered and
bloody and her fiancée dead.

After Erica is in a coma for three weeks, the scars from the experience
paralyze her emotions. Foster's raw emotion comes through in her acting
with great strength, as we see this tidal wave of tragedy ruin her
entire life. The city that she once loved now is seen as a dark,
hostile, soulless environment as she sees the repressive pry on the
weak and the law seems powerless to stop it. After failing at reaching
detectives to help find her husbands killer, and her own fear for her
safety, she decides to pick up a gun to protect herself.

Erica's own morality is changed forever, after she witnesses a man
gunning down his wife at a connivance store. She begins to wallow and
cry in fear, but her pain of her past causes her to act in anger as she
guns the man down. The experience causes Erica to feel dignified and
unafraid. She does not want to be an innocent, vulnerable bystander to
the repressive anymore, and does not want to shy away from the
repressive when they come across her. 

The process of her road down to becoming an avenging angel is a slow
digression, and witnessing her developing resistance towards injustice
is very moving to watch. Most thrillers such as this one have plots
that seem strained, but "The Brave One's" storyline gives much time for
the viewer to understand Erica's emotions and the motives she chooses
to signify them. 

When Erica meets the detective investigating her case, she becomes
fascinated with him, as she realizes that he is trying to put away a
ruthless criminal who has escaped the law. To cover for her crimes, she
displays interest in him through her work as a DJ and interviews the
detective, played by Terrance Howard. This makes for another
interesting storyline in the film. She asks him, "is there anything you
can do to bring this man to justice?" His reply is, "yes, but it
wouldn't be legal," Erica now decides to take the stance as a
vigilante, as she decides to bring this ruthless criminal to justice
herself. 

Erica now becomes ensnared in the endless battle between law and
justice through trying to realize where they actually diverge. Foster
carries vulnerability in the film but also strength and diligence.
Emotional resonance from characters that are real and relatable are
hardly seen in film, giving most films a dry and unauthentic look. But
Foster engrosses us in Erica's soul. Few actresses can pull off a role
like Erica in film today, but Foster stands alone as one of the best
character actors's working today. 

The film poses controversial questions to the soul rightness of
conducting vengeance on those who impart their control and power on
others. How can justice prevail when the good do nothing? This
question, as well as many more, is raised and the audience is left to
discover their own answers on morality.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film in a preview. It was the final production though. Jodie
Foster is a great actress, I would give her 10 of 10 without
hesitation. The story is a standard revenge-movie. But with Jodies
amazing acting and a good director the standard story becomes
interesting. It's like experience the whole thing through Jodies
character. The bad guys gets a little bit stereotyped and shows almost
no personalty other than violent temper. Well, it's easier to kill them
then, I guess. The sens-moral of the film is "kill the bad guys". Yes,
feels good on the white screen, but it would be the end of society if
everybody did like these characters did. Jodie gets 10 and the story 5,
so average is 7 which is my vote. Definitely worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, probably on first glance everyone will see the similarity with
previous (male dominated) vigilante films. But that's a quick,
superficial response. I have to say that everyone at the preview here
in Miami on 9/10/07 was knocked out by what this film truly does. It
takes us on an uncharted ride through the eyes of an intelligent NY
woman who's pretty much got her life by the tail. She's got good work,
a fiancé with whom she is in love, friends who are supportive and a
future that seems bright. Her life works, maybe even constitutes a
"charmed" life. Then life in the "safest big city in the world" grinds
her up like just so much meat going through a Cuisinart on high. A
senseless attack in Central Park and her life, her love and even her
dog are gone... in a matter of seconds. She can never go back to who
she was, but the world she lives in post-attack, seems to have no room
for her as she is. It is after this "prologue" that the essential story
really begins. This is a film about the way violence strips you of your
identity and changes you irrevocably. It explores in detail how you can
become someone even you can't recognize in the bathroom mirror when
loss, grief, anxiety, terror and depression take over. And what makes
this interesting & screen-worthy, is the journey the character takes is
very different from that of others before her in this genre. First,
because it is experienced totally through her eyes, ears and
sensibilities. Second, because for the first time I can recall, after a
lifetime of sitting in the dark and watching films, the character I
gladly identify with is a woman. Yes, it appears Ms. Foster has made
some definite changes in her selection of material - she's gone from
victim to vigilante over the course of a couple of decades. I admit
that I have enjoyed all of her work, but if she doesn't get an Oscar
nomination for her work in this film, everyone in Hollywood needs to be
institutionalized. She carries the film, is on screen for 97% of the
time, has changed her look and style to become a believable New
Yorker... the no-nonsense hair, clothes and stride of a woman who earns
her living via the sounds and rhythms of Manhattan. She shows a wide
range in this part... at once sarcastic, then nurturing, smoky-voice
seductive, yet warm & vulnerable and finally, a shell-shocked survivor
who appears cold-blooded, but is really suffering from post-traumatic
stress syndrome of the highest order. She does not strike one false
note. Her supporting cast is strong and the relationship that evolves
between her character and the Detective is edgy and in the end,
fulfilling. I hope that the audiences see what I & the rest of the
preview audience saw in this film... a character study that's "dead on"
in its dramatic arc. From what I understand, Ms. Foster often takes on
roles that were originally written for men. She will only entertain
work that offers dimensionality. Therefore, this may have been the
logical conclusion of that cycle. As a final note... it's about time
the studios realized that women can have a dark side, too. (The police
comments in the film regarding the nature of women who kill are very
interesting & provocative.)I am looking forward to the DVD release and
its "extras." I am hoping she will be an active voice on the
commentary. I would love to know what she created as her character's
back story and future story. Beyond her talent as an actor, her
authenticity as an artist, and her outstanding mind... she has a
charisma that underscores all of her work.This one's a film that will
effect you not only during its screen time, but afterward during the
postmortem you & your friends will most surely have. Don't miss this
film!
<|_=00=_|>
Terrance Howard as Detective Mercer asks Jodie Foster's Erica how she
came back from her heinous assault. Foster tellingly admits, "You
become someone else" Jodie Foster is powerful in Neil Jordan's "The
Brave One". Jordan's "The Brave One" could have easily slipped into a
feminist version of say perhaps "Death Wish". Foster's heart felt
performance and fierce intelligence compel and enroll. Her distinct
gift is that she always plays as smart as her character. She inspires
with authenticity, humanity, and sheer will. Terrance Howard is an
awesome screen partner and foil. He is stunning. "The Brave One"
falters a little in its forced resolution; however, the screenplay and
story by Roderick Taylor, Bruce Taylor, and Cynthia Mort is the tale of
a woman's stand in the face of fear. I say that in the most apolitical
way. "The Brave One" may be criticized for possibly glorifying
vigilante justice masked as vengeance. I believe for the smart and
talented Jordan and Foster, that was not what attracted them to the
project. There is a poignant and moving scene as Erica (Foster) returns
to her job as New York Public Radio talk show host. After a squirming
lapse of silence, Erica bares her naked soul as she talks about her
path back to normalcy, acknowledging she is now one of "the people who
live in fear". It is hard to dismiss "The Brave One" as populist
exploitation. I think that for Foster's Erica, she simply draws her
line in the sand. I think that resonates with a lot of people. When I
saw "The Brave One" last night, the audience was applauding at the
movie's conclusion. I have not heard that in a long while. "The Brave
One" strikes an emotional and cultural chord.

Jodie Foster plays Erica Bain, who is a Public Radio talk show host.
Erica records the sounds of New York City and comments upon them on her
show. Therein lays her affinity to the city. Erica is engaged to David
Kirmani (charming Naveen Andrews), a star physician. They have a great
life, and are preparing for their wedding. Then one evening while
taking their dog for a walk in Central Park, they are viciously
attacked by 3 thugs, who actually record the malicious beating. Note
the attack is visually savage and ruthless. Erica awakes in the
hospital weeks later to discover that David is dead and buried.
Devastated and her life profoundly altered, Erica returns home to begin
her recovery. Here Jordan and Foster touchingly illustrate Erica's
haunting memories of David, in the context of the attack. Jordan's
claustrophobic camera angles punctuate Erica's isolation. Eventually
able to muster the courage to leave her apartment, Erica is paralyzed
in fear. In an act of desperation, she illegally buys an automatic
handgun. The guy selling her the gun, even says to her, "What happened
to you?" Soon thereafter, Erica kills a vicious killer at a liquor
store. She must now fly under the legal system radar. She chooses this
dark path of vigilante justice, which can not end well. Terrance Howard
plays Detective Mercer, who is vehemently frustrated by the legal
system he defends, investigates the series of vigilante style murders.
The charismatic and sharp Mercer, eventually hypothesizes the killer
may be a "woman with a grudge". Turns out that Mercer had met Erica
before. They also form a touching bond out of both compassion and
shared loneliness.

Granted here Jordan and Screenwriter Mort are manipulative. Possessed
by anger and vengeance Erica kills the vilest of human beings. However,
Foster never plays Erica as an avenging superhero. She is fearful,
angry, and poignantly acknowledges that she may be becoming no better
than the criminals she kills. She is clumsy, surviving on her smarts,
and all heart. On paper what she is doing is wrong. However, as an
audience there is an element of muted admiration and redemption in
seeing Foster's Erica emerge from helpless victim. Foster brilliantly
captures Erica's transformation and quiet loss of humanity. Like in all
great tragedy, the hero must come to terms with that he or she
eventually becomes that which they despise. It is all about how the
hero reconciles that. To that end Terrance Howard is amazing as Erica's
voice of consciencehe commands an understated and quiet power.

Jordan's twist at the end may be contrived; however, I don't think that
it dilutes or undermines "The Brave One"'s power. We are all for
Erica's redemption and reconciliation of her very soul. Jodie Foster is
so powerful and compelling as hero Erica. This is one of her best
performances, and award worthy. Her performance resonates with us-- the
worst and best in humanity. Neil Jordan's storytelling is edgy and
brilliant. "The Brave One" is uncompromising film-making, and well
worth view and thought.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie was much better than i had hoped or expected it to be.it
basically turns the vigilante genre on its head,and has a female
character as the vigilante.like any vigilante movie,it certainly poses
tough questions.it contains some terrific performances in it's two lead
characters,Jodi Foster as the vigilante,and Terrance Howard as the cop
on her trail.both are outstanding and very credible in their respective
roles.Foster really makes you sympathetic to her character and rooting
for her,even though you probably shouldn't.Howard's character is also
sympathetic,because he has mixed feelings,but has to follow the law.he
comes off very convincingly as someone who is conflicted.the movie is
well paced and appropriately dark.even before the end of the movie,i
thought it was well done,but the ending caught me totally off guard.it
elevated the movie a notch.for me,The Brave One is a 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
"I think someone should just take this city and just... just flush it
down the f***in' toilet", says Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro), in "Taxi
Driver". He wants to protect the young prostitute Iris (Jodie Foster)
from some pigs, and give her a better future. 31 years later, Iris is a
popular radio host whose fiancé (Naveen Andrews) is killed in a random
attack. She decides to avenge him, and other helpless people, with her
own hands.

If not for Jodie Foster's presence, I probably wouldn't bother watching
"The Brave One" (even though I admire most of Neil Jordan's films).
It's easy to call this a morally sick movie, because that's what is...
but it's not sicker than any other bloody action thriller out there.
Watching a "fragile" woman like Foster becoming Charles Bronson in
skirts is both entertaining and (questionably) gratifying. Who's never
fantasized: what if I could just kill all the scum around me? Like
"Falling Down" and so many other flicks, "The Brave One" appeals to our
lower instincts, and - mildly - makes us imagine what would we do in
Jodie's shoes, and how "simple and satisfying" it'd be just to kill
them all. That'd be the easiest, quickest 'solution' to our nightmares,
and on a second look, that's not as sick as we'd think... just
desperate and cathartic.

Far from being a great movie or intellectually instigating as, say,
"Dogville", "The Brave One" is worth seeing for Jodie's performance and
for its unapologetic badassery in times of false, excessive morality.
6.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This was entertaining. Sure, one can't help but draw comparisons and
think back to the most famous vigilante film of all time: "Death Wish,"
but this film stands on its own story. No, it's not "Death Wish," but
it ain't far from it, storywise. It's different enough to keep us
guessing what "Erica" will do next so, in that regard, it's good value
for your entertainment dollar, particularly if you enjoy film noirs.
This would be labeled a "neo noir" today.

I was a little skeptical about Jodie Foster playing a Charles
Bronson-type shooter, but she pulled it off convincingly. The
difference in "Erica Bain" and Bronson's "Paul Kersey" was minimal
except she seemed to be more depressed over who she had become, once
she started killing. 

Foster, by the way, shows no signs of slowing down as an actress and
this was a juicy role for her.

But don't be misled by this film's screenplay or by Hollywood standards
of morality, as they have very little. The fact is, as shown in this
film, this woman quickly turns into a killer, a murderer, if even if it
was scumbags she was killing, it doesn't justify her actions and, deep
inside, she knew it. (It sure is satisfying, though, in a real base
sense!) 

The ending a little UNsatisfying to a number of reviewers, both here
and in national publications. That's all I will say on that, as I don't
want to spoil anything for readers who haven't seen the movie. You make
up your own mind what you think of it, and the message it conveys.

Suffice to say, if you're looking for an entertaining neo noir, one
that serves up your thirst for vengeance a la "Death Wish," this is one
to check out at your local rental store.
<|_=00=_|>
Police detective in New York City is befriended by a female talk-radio
hostess who makes acerbic/introspective comments on daily life in the
Big Apple; her past as the near-fatal victim of murderous street thugs
connects in his mind with the current rash of celebrated vigilante
killings...but if his hunch is right, will he be able to arrest someone
he has come to admire? Despite a dreamy, somewhat disconnected
narrative which gives the proceedings almost a surreal feeling, this
violent urban thriller is absorbing and intriguing, if familiar. Jodie
Foster is very capable in the role of this intense, mourning and
benumbed woman who isn't quite sure what her feelings are regarding the
low-life she kills, yet the character as conceived is tough for us to
reach. Speaking in a low monotone (and grieving for her slain boyfriend
in much the same way), Foster doesn't shake the audience up--and she
doesn't propel the film forward. She is highly sympathetic and human,
yet she seems to drift through this hellish jungle with a halo and a
gun. Director Neil Jordan certainly stacks the deck against her, which
should be enough to get viewers rooting for this modern-day "Ms. 45",
however the picture remains aloof, detached. As the detective, Terrence
Howard does well with an old-hat role, and the actors playing the punks
are all quite convincing. There's a plot thread involving an i-phone
recording of the beating Foster and her fiancée suffer which doesn't
come off (it seems dropped in), and another scene with Foster saving a
young woman from a pimp that feels sketchy. Still, the movie looks
classy, has skillful editing and a satisfying wrap-up, and makes fine
usage of Sarah McLachlan's song "Answer". **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
(My Synopsis) Radio host Erica Bain (Jodie Foster) is working and
living a wonderful life in New York City without a care in the world.
One night she and her fiancé, David (Naveen Andrews), are brutally
attacked by three thugs in the park. David is killed and Erica is
beaten within an inch of her life. Erica is traumatized to a point
where she can not sleep and will not leave her apartment. To cope and
work past this tragic event, Erica becomes someone else. She buys a gun
and begins to roam the streets at night looking to take her revenge on
the men who were responsible for killing her one true love. One late
night, Erica is in the back of a convenience store about to purchase a
soft drink when a man comes in and kills the woman clerk. She is a
witness, and he comes after her. Erica protects herself and finds that
it is very easy to shoot a gun. Days later, Erica is on the subway when
she is about to be raped by two men, and again she protects herself.
The City of New York is fascinated with the exploits of this vigilante
killer, and NYPD Detective Mercer (Terrence Howard) is trying to catch
this person, before he kills again. Erica gets a lead of where she can
find the three men in the park, so they will be next.

(My Comment) Jodie Foster is brilliant playing the part of a victim
when she is hit by a random act of violence. We get to experience the
whole tragedy through the eyes of Erica. Her first thoughts were she
was lucky to be alive, then she wants justice, and if she can't get
justice, she wants revenge. Erica is a calm radio show host who starts
out as an ordinary woman who becomes a victim and finds the courage to
fight back by turning into a Charles Bronson (Death Wish) character.
Erica decides to walk the streets of New York shooting anyone who does
her wrong. Jodie is excellent in transitioning from good to evil and in
the process still wanting justice. (Warner Bros. Pictures, Run time
1:59, Rated R)(8/10)
