
and when she gets there, she gets bored, gossips, reads Rousseau, and
has beach-blanket pot parties in Amadeus outfits. I did like the music,
there is one inspired masked ball and a good "watch the sun rise" scene
- the strength of this film is its connection to high school culture,
seen through the eyes of a sweet, utterly conventional and finally
boring teenage girl, projected from the California suburbs onto 18th
century France. This is obviously also the film's weakness: this movie
is a beautiful, expensive still life that knows nothing at all about
French history, Europe, the Revolution, the Bourbons, how the ancien
regime worked, how incompetent wars and not Marie Antoinette's
Imelda-Marcos-like shoe fetish ran up the debt, about the conflict in
North America with England and Spain, about how leading members of
French government actually had brains - the films displays a nitwit,
decadent, wig-loving, golden-furniture France as though seen by a
France-hater in the Bush administration. As my brother pointed out, the
movie also blew the subject of a potentially great movie, which is
Marie Antoinette's inspired, sometimes brilliant defense of herself at
her later trial. Trying to learn about what happened to the French
court from this film is like trying to learn about American corporate
culture by watching J.R Ewing's 30 second business deals at the
Cattlemen's Club on Dallas. Well sure, politics wasn't the subject of
the movie, but why is the "chick stuff" buried in diamonds and
champagne? That makes these women seem way less tough and intelligent
than they actually were in the bloody contact sport of French court
politics. As an American watching this in Paris I was struck by the
film's lack of historical, political, and cultural sophistication, in
which Dunst is in every single frame and it's all one gigantic royal
slumber party until the peasants show up in an illiterate wordless mass
baying for bread and blood and shaking their satanic harvesting tools.
Ouch: The film makes the most sense as a weird allegory of Hollywood
inbreeding.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the recent Marie-Antoinette biography by Antonia Fraser, Sofia
Coppola's film focuses on the personal qualities of the character of
Marie-Antoinette and thus participates in the character's historical
rehabilitation. Antoinette is seen as a respectful loyal daughter, a
loving mother, a patient wife, who had to withstand a flood of
vindictive criticism since the moment she set foot in the French court.
This depiction contrasts strongly with many prior representations of
the character in film ("The Affair of the Necklace" for example), which
show her as superficial, selfish and vain.

The visuals and auditory elements, which evoke a powerful image of
18th-century Versailles, are the movie's forte. And their effects
linger in one's mind (or at least they did in mine) long after one's
exit from the theater. As a budding art historian, I was stunned by the
intensely lush visual spectacle the film has to offer: the pomp and
circumstance of ritualized and regimented 18th-century Versailles. The
semi-private world that Antoinette builds for herself to escape
Versailles's codified, quasi-totalitarian atmosphere, is evoked through
a sequence of fast-moving images of champagne-guzzling,
beautifully-decorated cake-eating, and Manolo Blahnik shoe buying. Thus
Antoinette's fantasy world is likened to a world recognizable to you,
me and Carrie Bradshaw. Some people may scoff at this 21st century
world transposed to an earlier time. But as the center of the world in
18th-century Europe, Marie-Antoinette's "secret Versailles" would
certainly have been as "hip" as this, and Coppola has found effective
means through sound and image by which to make this hipness accessible.

The story zooms in on the character of Marie-Antoinette, played by a
ravishing Kirsten Dunst, who arrives at Versailles at the tender age of
14, to become queen of France a mere 5 years later. Coppola emphasizes
the loneliness of Antoinette throughout the film: most important is her
alienation from the French court by the fact that she is a foreigner
(something that made her a scapegoat for all of France's problems
during the 1780's). Her powerlessness to "fit in" is emphasized also
through her sexual alienation from her socially-awkward husband (played
by Jason Schwartzmann), her mother's chidings that she has not yet
produced an heir to the French throne (and thereby has not secured
Austria's political place in Europe), and the bitchy gossip that goes
on behind her back at court.

Marie-Antoinette is depicted as an intensely personable, friendly and
playful person. Coppola fashions a Marie-Antoinette who is a dutiful
daughter, a patient wife to Louis (who eventually overcomes his shyness
and becomes a loving and protective husband and father), and a caring
and tender mother. She is shown as both bold and humble, two qualities
which had quasi-miraculous effects on both the court and the angry mob,
as is shown in some of the film's most touching moments.

Equipped with these "essential" personal qualities, the charges
traditionally made against Marie-Antoinette fade completely. It is
precisely Antoinette's ill-fated attempt at fitting into French court
society that causes her escape into a world of idle futility and
libertinage. Her escape into the world of "playing shepherdess" in her
pleasure-house of Le Hameau is shown not as a silly escape from
responsibility but as the simple human need to be surrounded by the
natural world. This place appears to us as it does to Antoinette: as a
refuge from the backbiting, totalitarian regime of Versailles. Even the
legendary "let them eat cake" statement allegedly made by
Marie-Antoinette is discarded as fiction.

There is almost no place in the film for the 18th-century reality as it
existed outside the bubble-like world of Versailles. This is not the
movie's purpose. The end of the film is a bit abrupt: the last image
shows the royal family heading to Paris to be imprisoned in the
building of the Conciergerie. There is no mention of the guillotine
anywhere, which again can seem surprising, but which shows that Coppola
deliberately tried to eschew stereotypes and do something different.
And it is all to her credit.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen this film yesterday after a lot of hype up and waiting
since in my little town everything comes out a month after the release
date. I was looking forward to seeing this movie..a lot. But I must say
that the trailers I had seen and the film have a completely different
feeling. This isn't a bad film but I think that it well get a lot of
criticism for not being historically accurate, not serious enough,
being too long, being 'unfinished'... but those are not he bad points
of this movie. The style is original and Sofia Coppola succeeds at
showing Marie Antoinette's personal side. Her suffering through gossip
and humiliation by her husbands lack of 'interest' in her etc. She
succeeds in showing Marie Antoinette as a naive girl in the
beginning..who hugs her first lady, cries at parting with her dog and
announcing that the morning ceremonials are ridiculous. We see Marie
Antoinette at the beginning trying to fit in with the strict life at
Versailles but further on it's clear that with the gossip following her
she stops caring and starts to have fun her own way which leads to her
ruin. The negative points of the film is that Sofia Coppola uses the
same techniques, the same scenes through out the movie. The trying on
of shoes, the hairdressing, the patisserie dishes and the champagne. We
see Marie Antoinette frolicking around in the grass too many times.
Sofia Coppola apparently tried to show a girl out of touch with reality
who lives just to have fun..to escape the wagging tongues of
Versailles. But if that was her point the film should've ended long
before. This is a biography of Marie Antoinette...even though not a
completely serious or historically accurate one...but if Sofia Coppola
is trying to show this French queens personality and human side then I
can assure you there was more to her than the frilly lace, the satin
shoe, the bakery department and the champagne. Marie-Antoinette was a
mother who cared about her children and was involved with them..though
we hardly we see this in the film except the sequence of her and her
daughter on the farm. The relationship and the feelings she had for her
husband aren't very clear and his for her aren't very much elucidated.
This is a visually beautiful film but I think Sofia Coppola could've
delved deeper into this rich personality. In the end you're left with
the impression of stepping out from a hazy rose petal fragile dream
that from someones tumultuous life. But a dream that's still worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Sofia Coppola made a mistake. Who knew she could? Much has been made of
the ker-azee rock 'n' roll soundtrack and modern day touches, but the
thing is that Marie Antoinette just wasn't a rock 'n' roll enough to
warrant this kind of treatment.

Dialogue flickers unevenly between contemporary speak and old-school
archaisms. Ditto the costumes: some pink swirls here, a clashing
pattern there, but all topped off with lace and severity. What's going
on? And is Sofia Coppola paying attention? This is done like a portrait
piece, but we never find out anything about Marie Antoinette, we just
watch her react, interact and look slightly bemused. Kirsten Dunst is
lovely to watch, but in the absence of any real character she amounts
to little more than thespian eye candy.

Same goes for the rest of the characters, and France. Coppola decides,
understandably, not to let the rest of France in. No shots of orphans,
nada, just life at Versailles where the king and queen are so out of
place they seem to have fallen through the wardrobe and into Narnia.
It's just not any fun. And for something with this many great people in
it, that sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
Having trashed two of the three movies Sofia Coppola has directed (I
didn't see Lick the Star, yuck!) what made me think I'd enjoy Marie
Antoinette? I'm old and worse yet, a male. Certainly not the
demographic Marie Antoinette is aimed at, so I found when I ventured
out to my local Cineplex to check out Ms. Coppola's 4th go at
directing. I figured to use the theater as my personal screening-room
on a Friday at noon. Oops! It was a school holiday and I entered one of
the smaller of the 14 "theaters" into a crowd of a dozen or so chatting
high school girls. I had mistakenly arrived 20 minutes early so I had
an opportunity to eavesdrop on their discussion concerning the ethics
paper they were required to write and what they were considering giving
up for a week as required by their class. These must have been students
at the nearby parochial high school. What public high school has ethic
courses? They seemed a perfect audience for a film on Marie Antoinette.
The theater continued to fill as film time approached. It filled to
approximately ¾ capacity and I was, as best as I could determine, the
only male person of my gender.

So why did I think I'd enjoy a film by a director whose films seemed
directed by a person with a spoiled child's view of the world? Well,
what I'd read about Marie Antoinette resonated close enough with Moulin
Rouge, Baz Luhrmann's Moulin Rouge which blew me away. "Lavish imagery
and a daring soundtrack set this film apart from most period dramas; in
fact, style complete takes precedence over plot and character
development in Coppola's vision of the doomed queen" should sound
familiar to Moulin Rouge fans.

Well, as soon as the black and shocking pink credits showed up to the
sound of The Gang of Four's "Natural's Not In It" I knew I was in the
right place. Kirsten Dunst was, in my opinion, a perfect choice. She's
beautiful but not too beautiful. She has an aura of mischievousness
which worked from start to finish. Ms. Dunst, at the young age of 24 or
so, already has a long career in Hollywood. And she was only one of
many. From Marianne Faithful, to Judy Davis, to Rip Torn, to Jason
Schwartzman, to Asia Argento, to many others perfectly cast. 

For me, the film never dragged or bogged down. The sets were beautiful.
(What can you say about Versailles and the French countryside?) The
food was reminiscent to me of Wayne Thiebaud paintings, but more
colorful. The costumes, the music, added to the sense of decadence I
think the film aimed for. 

Yet Marie Antoinette's character never seemed decadent. Ms. Dunst's
openness and delight in all presented to her, came across. Despite her
loss of freedom and the difficulty in eventually becoming the Queen of
France she was able to "Party On!" 

What made the film, for me, exceptional, was how Sofia Coppola was able
to make both Marie Antoinette and Louis XVI living, breathing, human
beings, rather than grotesqueries. I was moved several times by their
connection or lack of the same. 

There is a lot to see, hear and experience in Marie Antoinette. It is
an accomplished and stimulating cinematic experience. I shall view it
as much as I am able. This film has prompted me to review both The
Virgin Suicides and Lost in Translation. The world is certainly in need
of feminine perspective and Sofia Coppola has made a statement that she
has the potential to be a very Great talent.

Pardon my verbosity.
<|_=00=_|>
i know some people have said that it is entirely eye candy (and what
amazing eye candy at that) but it actually does an artful adaptation of
the book, which i read before seeing the film. it includes many of the
important, beautiful, and sad parts of the book without getting bogged
down with all the particulars and names like many of the period movies
do. the soundtrack is great, a clever blend of 18th century and
modern...the parts are well acted and the American accents rarely
detract. If you want a historical account of her life, read the
book...if you want Versailles and Marie Antoinette brought to life in a
heart-breakingly beautiful fashion, go see this film...it is truly one
of the most visually stunning movies i have ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
Not only was this movie the worst I movie saw in 2006, it is high
ranking among the worst movies I've seen in my life (and that includes
such winners as Devil's Rejects and the Hulk). The only redeeming
aspect of was the costumes and scenery, everything else was horrible.
Kirsten Dunst was not very well suited at all for this character. Her
performance came off as very artificial, not realistic at all. The
movie's blatant disregard for historical accuracy was pretty
disturbing. It didn't focus on the French Revolution at all. That would
be like making a film of Abraham Lincon but just leaving out the Civil
War. Or maybe I could make a movie about the Titanic but ending the
movie before that bad sinking part happens. It's a pity I can't give it
negative stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Marie Antoinette is the film equivalent of one of those expensive
fashion magazines that pepper indie art galleries  packed with
achingly hip aesthetics but free of meaningful content. The film traces
the life of the last Queen of France from her introduction to the
French court until her departure from Versailles. If you're looking for
serious history though, you're better off sticking to Antonia Fraser's
source novel. Wigs, footmen and finery are more often than not filmed
to the strains of 80s pop and punk and a pair of Converse shoes even
sneaks onto the screen (though viewers will have to be sharp-eyed to
spot them). It's the 18th century, Jim, but not as we know it. Marie
Antoinette the film shares the obsessions of Marie Antoinette the
character  shoes, cakes, finery and having fun. It even finishes
before the dark conclusion to Marie Antoinette's tale  her arrest and
subsequent death by guillotine for treason. Sophia Coppola's last film,
Lost in Translation, won an Academy Award for Best Screenplay but it's
safe to say she won't be receiving any such plaudits for this script.
There's barely any dialogue for the first twenty minutes, and most
exchanges thereafter are pithy and shallow. Great actors  Rip Torn,
Danny Huston, Shirley Henderson  are given nothing much more to do
than push the narrative along its slow path. Dunst's role is mainly to
giggle, roll her eyes, and run around in period costume. O.C.
characters have more depth. Visually, however, the film is stunning.
No, better than that: it's luscious. Coppola was given special
dispensation to film in Versailles and all the extravagant finery of
the palace's rooms unfolds across your screens. When Dunst has a
shopping spree  to the anachronistic sounds of I Want Candy by Bow Bow
Bow  you go with her, feasting on cream-stuffed cakes, delicately
stitched shoes and beautiful, patterned fabrics. The film is an orgy of
materialism, filmed with the sharp editing and honed soundtrack of a
television advert. All of which makes it difficult to see what point
Coppola's making. The camera's fetishises the spoils of wealth and yet
we're encouraged to feel sympathy for her as the revolutionaries close
in on the palace at the film's end. She wants us to think Marie
Antoinette's character was misrepresented  'I never said that!' she
claims of the famous 'Let them eat cake!' reports  but shows us enough
debauchery to reinforce the common perception. In fact, it's difficult
not to see the director herself mirrored in her central character as it
was in Lost in Translation  the spoiled Hollywood royalty reaping the
benefit of her connections to stuff herself (and her film) with
profligate confectionery. Your enjoyment of Marie Antoinette will
depend on how you go in. If you're expecting Dangerous Liaisons you'll
hate it. If you think you'd enjoy an 18th century hybrid of A Knight's
Tale with Clueless, kick off your Converse, stock up on fairy cakes and
indulge.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just seen Marie-Antoinette at a sneak preview in Amsterdam. I had
heard and read so much about this film that my expectations were
probably too high. Hence my disappointment. What a strange mixture!
Kirsten Dunst is excellent, and Jason Schwartzman too (as Louis XVI),
but what a pity for the rest of the crew: this mixture of accents
(American, English, French, fake French...) doesn't help. Coppola tried
to give a modern twist to M-A's story (with Rock'n Roll music and
Dogma-style filming), but I found certain things quite... surprising,
like the masked ball at the Garnier Opera, which was only built in
1874, 80 years after M-A's tragic death... But I thought: Why not?
Let's be open-minded... Actually, my main problem was not with this
aspect of the film, but more with the fact that it lacks rhythm, and
that it's much too long (almost 2 hours!). And there are huge gaps on
the historical level, which Coppola tried to fill up with paintings
(like the death of one of her children, who's erased from a painting).
Could have been 'funny', but alas!... it isn't. But let's stop
complaining for a moment. I gave this film a 7 because I still think
that some moments are of pure magic, like the part about nature, when
M-A seems to find peace in her little 'farm' next to Versailles. In
those moments, I had the feeling of seeing Lux Lisbon from The Virgin
Suicides (also played by Kristen Dunst...) evolving in a sort of
timeless parallel world. Pure beauty! In those moments, I thought: What
a queen!
<|_=00=_|>
A hauntingly beautiful film about how deep disappointment finds an
outlet in "creative" frivolity. The combination of rock music and the
rituals of Versaille never "shocks" thanks to the mastery of the
direction. There is also a solid mastery of pacing. The slow
progression of the film never bores; it reveals in time. The glory of
Versailles is not shown 

at the beginning but only as the film and the psychology of its heroine
develop. The films owes a lot to the leading actress and way she is
shot. The close-ups of the expressive face of Kirsten Dunst communicate
the whole range of emotions behind a women eager to please and to do
well, but who is trapped and inwardly anguished and disappointed.
Rarely have we felt so close to a famous woman so far back in time. The
film also masters the art of depicting "historical clichés", such as MA
playing milkmaid, very convincingly. I was wonderfully surprised by
this unusual film, and will see it a second time.
