
It seems that it is becoming fashionable to rip "Basic Instinct 2," to
the point that a significant part of the audience (including critics)
found it terrible even before it was released. It seems even more
fashionable to trash Sharon Stone wholike all of usis now fourteen
years older, andunlike most of usstill looks wonderful. First
comments on this movie were so vicious that I had to see for myself. In
my opinion, this sequel is not nearly as good as the original film, but
is not as bad as most comments pretend. Michael Caton-Jones is not Paul
Verhoeven, neither Henry Bean and Leora Barish are Joe Eszterhas.
"Basic Instinct 2" is just an entertaining, average thriller, and
besides the addition of Jerry Goldsmith original score, keeps little
resemblance to its predecessor. Even Stone gives her character a
different dimension, creating a lustful, devilish Catherine Trimell,
who can perfectly well rank among other monsters like Hannibal Lecter.
She is an intelligent actress who is not afraid of taking risks and can
play with camp at her leisure. Unfortunately, she seems to be the main
target for those who enjoy trashing this flick. She became too
successful, too much of a main icon, and like all those actors who have
reached that level, her time has arrived and she is now bound to be
destroyed by Hollywood audiences.

The rest of the cast is outstanding, giving performances that are far
better than the material deserves. David Morrissey is a much better
actor and by far more interesting than Michael Douglas: his acting is
flawless, giving a dense, complex dimension to an otherwise one
dimensional character. Since he has more screen time and is the axis of
the movie, he can keep your attention from beginning to end.

I am not recommending "Basic Instinct 2" as a great movie; I am just
expressing my disagreement with most of the comments on this site and
my conviction that agendas other than the movie itself are shaping the
opinion of most spectators.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I saw this movie yesterday and it's - unfortunately - worse than
you could think. First of all the plot is idiotic, it has no sense at
all. The screenplay is full of intentionally funny dialogues. The
audience was laughing many times. And the suspense is very low. Actors
play so-so, with an exception of Sharon Stone, who has some good
moments but also some awfully bad acting moments. The saddest parts are
when she tries to be aggressively sexy and says things like "I want to
*beep* you " and it looks like, let's say it gently, a very very mature
woman acting rude and not sexy at all. That erotic tension from BI1 is
totally gone. From the technical point of Basic Instinct 2 is a
mediocre movie - better than typical straight to DVD, but on a far
lower lever than the original movie. For instance the scene of crazy
joyride is done poorly. The director of Basic Instinct 2 is no Paul
Verhoeven and it shows. The new composer is no Jerry Goldsmith and its
shows. The script is done by people who are no match for Joe Eszterhas.
There's no substitute for Michael Douglas in it. The film looks cheap
and badly edited at times. I'm sorry but my first thought after I left
the theater was: "Why heaven't they made this movie earlier and with
original talents behind the success of the first movie?" All to all the
original movie is like Citizen Kane compared to this. The first Basic
Instinct is a classic and was a kind of break-thru in the popular
cinema. It was provoking, sexy and controversial. It had the best
Sharon Stone's performance in her career. It had this specific Paul
Verhoeven's style. Unfortunately Basic Instinct 2 is a unintentionally
funny movie, badly directed and a sure Razzie Award Winner in many
categories. It's a pity that they made this film.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not like I have overwhelmingly fond memories of Verhoeven's
original pants-down shocker - it always struck me as a glossy,
well-made airport-novel-of-a-movie. Thrilling, sexy trash, but trash
nonetheless. It was also a film that tapped into a certain sexual
zeitgeist. After a decade of anti-sex AIDS-induced hysteria, a film
about a wildly-sexual hotbod who thrill-kills to heighten her sexual
pleasure was pretty enticing stuff. Basic Instinct 2 was always going
to struggle to provide the same social relevance and immediacy, so the
fact that it's desperate attempts at raunchiness are so lame can
sort-of be overlooked. All it really had to provide was that thin
veneer of titillation and a mildly engaging story and all would have
been watchable. That it resoundingly fails on so many levels, and in
such a way to be a career nadir for everyone involved, is really quite
extraordinary to watch. Let's state the obvious for starters - Sharon
Stone is too old for the part of sexual magnet Catherine Trammell. What
was so photogenic thru Verhoeven's lens looks like mutton dressed as
lamb in the hands of gun-for-hire Michael Caton-Jones, who's flat, drab
colours and static camera render her undeniable beauty totally moot. I
like Sharon Stone a lot, but if the first film launched her career, BI2
could kill it. She has no chemistry with stuffed-shirt David Morrissey
- their only sex scene is embarrassing too watch. His dough-faced
mamma's boy of a character made me yearn for the swaggering,
orange-skin machismo of Michael Douglas. Supporting turns by David
Thewlis and Charlotte Rampling waste these fine actors on talky
exposition scenes and cliché-heavy posturing. And what of the
much-touted sexual shenanigans? Poorly-lit, fleetingly-glimpsed, as
utterly mainstream as an episode of Desperate Housewives - the European
sensibilities that Verhoeven brought to the sexual content of the first
film are sorely missed. Don't watch this film for carnal thrills -
there are none and what there is is tragic. The film is, as a whole,
convoluted to the point of utter confusion, boring and laughable. The
last 40 minutes in particular, where you come to the realisation that
the film is, in fact, not going to go anywhere of interest at all, are
particularly gruelling and hilarious in equal measure. As a failed
sequel, Basic Instinct 2 will come to occupy similar cinematic ground
as Exorcist 2 The Heretic, Beyond The Poseidon Adventure and XXX2. As a
vanity project, it rivals Battlefield Earth in its misconception. As a
multi-million dollar piece of Hollywood film-making, it's a travesty
that will be hard to top as the years worst.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the reason for all the opinionated diarrhea on this movie is
that most people have it out for Sharon Stone being around 50 and
getting naked while playing sexy. No one cared when the Golden Girls
sat around eating cheesecake and discussing their first orgasm, but to
see someone post menopausal getting digitally pleased while driving I
guess is just too much for some to handle. Let's face it, she looks
good, she's light years hotter than my mother who's the same age! It's
not an Oscar or a cult classic like the first, but ever since the turn
of the century that's all movie goers seem to expect: a cinematic
experience that will touch your soul. As such, it never claims to be
either. It's an erotic thriller that is both erotic and thrilling, and
is a continuation of a brilliant character that we all love to hate.
It's the character of Catherine Trammell that helped give way for this
sequel. Fans of the first movie want to see more of that frosty ice
queen.

The cinematography and art direction were lush and extravagant and made
me want to move to Britian for sure. The score is amazing as well.

Sure there's some overacting from some characters but there's some
brilliant work from David Morrissey who's virtually unknown.

There's a setback in that the script is virtually the same as the first
movie only plugging in a psychiatrist in place of the cop. As well as
the criminal decision of the MPAA to force the movie to be cut down
even more which takes away from the guilty-pleasure raunchiness that
the story is known for.

At the very least it's entertaining and fun to look at it, and that's
the movie's only intentions. So if you've got beef with Mizz Stone,
maybe you should actually SEE the movie and draw your own conclusions
before you spew forth your projectile vomit?
<|_=00=_|>
In Michael Caton-Jones' "Basic Instinct 2," Sharon Stone tries
desperately to prove she is still sexy and dangerous To each
uncrossing of legs, she supplies every type of attraction And yes, she
does get naked, but not as naked as before teasing us only with a
glimpse of her nethers In every step of the way, every line of dialog,
every gesture, makes her look absolutely stunning, even better than she
did in the original erotic thriller back in 1992

Stone returns as novelist Catherine Tramell whose bestselling books
match her deadly reality so perfectly making us wonder This time the
action moves from San Francisco to London, where she attracts the
attention of the Scotland Yard Soon a celebrated psychologist named
Michael Glass is caught between her seductive powers Glass knows all
about homicidal impulse and identifies Catherine as having "risk
addiction." But when the people surrounding him start falling in
graphic ways, Glass starts jeopardizing his profession to keep at
distance the siren's notorious advances

With his soft brown eyes, bland haircut, and prominent chin,
Morrissey's Dr. Glass is no match for a sultry, sexy and smart vixen
like Sharon Stone Stone completely embodies every aspect of
Catherine's physical attribute, manipulating the hell out of the
freshly divorced psychiatrist Dr. Milena Gardosh (Charlotte Rampling)
recognizes Glass is falling for Catherine and advises him to remove
himself as her therapist

Stone seems to be a strong figure only composed of "capital sins." She
is daring and shameless in her teasing, temptations and commands She
never shows any remorse, and remains, one more time, one of the classic
femme fatales

"Basic Instinct 2" is hardly unwatchable, because Stone is very
winding, puzzling and intensely fascinating in the way she puts out of
side issues through dialog that seems foolishly open and penetrating
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at the London Premiere, and I have to say - I didn't
expect much, but I did expect something that was at least mildly
entertaining.

The original "Basic Instinct" was no great film and is still something
of a "smut classic" but it was entertaining. I can recall countless
times flipping through channels on TV on a late Friday or Saturday
night having come across the movie and finding myself beginning to
actually pay attention to it.

However, this lame-brain, waaay-belated sequel has nothing. Is Sharon
Stone still gorgeous? Well, let's put it this way -- for a 47-year-old,
she's pretty hot. Is she as beautiful as she was in the original? No.
She also has clearly had plastic surgery on her face, and her haircut
in this movie is somewhat unappealing. She doesn't look as soft or
genuine or innocent as she did in the original -- which is sort of the
whole point of being an evil seductress, and whatnot.

The rest of the performances range from bad to terrible -- and Michael
Caton-Jones (a typically safe director -- one who doesn't always do
great work but manages to make worthwhile movies) has officially
delivered his first true turkey; a movie so bad people were laughing at
certain moments that were intended to be serious.

I hear the film went through multiple editing sessions, and it's very
clear from the start. Nothing makes much sense. The whole plot is a
cosmic mess and the ending -- oh my! Talk about stupid AND
unbelievable. (Still predictable, though.) I saw "Gigli," I saw "Son of
the Mask" -- and although I'm not looking to "smear" this film, I can
say with my own authority (which you don't have to agree with at all,
mind you) that I prefer both those films over this catastrophic
failure.

By the way, Stone left five minutes before the movie began and people
in the theater began throwing things at the screen during a
particularly outrageous and insulting scene inside an orgy-type
nightclub.

"Basic Instinct 2" -- basically, it stinks, too.
<|_=00=_|>
I never trust the opinions of anyone regarding a film. That goes for
critics as well. Sure, if it gets positive reviews that's OK and a
plus, but most films that get critical rave I hate. I enjoyed this film
for what it was, an entertaining film. It takes you out of your life
for a couple hours and into a fictional character...that being
Catherine Trammell. Sharon Stone is awesome in this role, just like she
was in the first one. Anyone who says she is horrible in this film must
have felt the same in the first one b/c she is back acting the same way
she did in Basic Instinct 1. Catherine is hers and she plays her to
perfection. Her one liners are great, much like in the first one. Who
can forget in the first film when she tells the cops, "If you're gonna
arrest me do it...otherwise get the f**k out of here!" Great scene, and
believe me, she does it again in this one. I was captivated by her. Her
outfits, the way she smoked her cigarettes, believe me, its worth the
price just to see Stone's performance. I cannot wait for this film to
be released on DVD, uncut, because I can only imagine how much better
it is going to be. And yes, there are lots of twists, as in the first
one, including the ending!
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to believe, after waiting 14 years, we wind up with this
piece of cinematic garbage. The original was a high impact, dark
thriller that achieved "cult" status demonstrating the fine art of
cinema as directed by Paul Verhoeven. This film adds nothing, delivers
nothing, and ultimately winds up in the big box of failed sequels.

The opening sequence could have triggered an intriguing set of plot
developments using a considerably talented and able cast. Unfortunately
we are treated to a 90 minute dissertation in the self-indulgent life
of Catherine Tramell... or is it Sharon Stone. Possibly a copulation of
both.

If the desire is too see a continuation of the sensually provocative
stying of sex as in "B.S.1", forget it. You wind up with soft-porn
boredom which ultimately upholds the old adage that a woman can be more
alluring in clothes than out of them. It's interesting to note that the
wonderful Charlotte Rampling was romping around in her skivvies, via
the 1966 GEORGY GIRL, when Ms. Stone was only 8 years old. A very
talented actress and quite adept at holding her own even here.

If you're a true cinema fan then you must see this film and judge it
using your own rating system. If not, you might as well wait for the
DVD release in the "rated" version, "unrated" version, "collectors"
edition, or "ultimate" version, and perhaps in another 14 years we will
be saturated with news of "Basic Instinct 3" at which point Ms. Stone
will be 62 years old and nobody will really care.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand your objections to this movie. It is a taut,
thrilling extension of the character created in "Basic Instinct". The
only part of the story that is the least bit unrealistic, is the fact
that Sharon Stone's character is still alive and not in jail at this
late date.

SPOILER ALERT: As the movie progresses, we are presented with three
theories of what is going on: 1) Sharon Stone's character is killing
all these people because she's crazy (Risk Addicted); 2) David Thewlis'
crooked cop is killing these people in order to frame Sharon Stone's
character; 3) David Morrissey's analyst is killing these people for
revenge. What upsets most people about the movie seems to be that none
of these theories are ever explicated as the "real" story. (Although
the analyst is in a psychiatric care facility for killing the cop; the
only killing that occurs on screen.)

I think this is a brilliant plot device in the spirit of "2001, A Space
Odyssey." WHO CARES what is real? The blonde really is crazy, the cop
really is crooked and the analyst really wants revenge. What's
important is the interactions between these and other characters in the
story. Like real life, everyone is more complicated than anyone thinks
and reality is more complicated than a movie. Get over it!
<|_=00=_|>
So, every year there is at least one movie, that hasn't got any chance
of being a box office success, because from the moment of production,
even before one simple shot is filmed, everybody's picking on this
movie... There is a long list of these kind of movies, and in the end,
some are really bad (Battlefield Earth (2000)), some may have their
flaws but are quite enjoyable (Catwoman (2004), Elektra (2005)) and
then there are a few, which actually are really great for what they
are, but no one admits! I mean, my gosh, just because the wide crowd
does have to have a victim each year they can pick on, not everybody
has to join them. So yeaaah, maybe those movies aren't perfect, but
c'mon, how many movies are? Not every movie is supposed to be a new The
Lord of the Rings! Not everybody will enjoy these movies, but I bet
there are more than who admit they do. Hudson Hawk (1991), who is just
hysterical funny, Color of Night (1994), which may not be Oscar-worthy,
but is definitely a not dumb at all thriller with some nice twists,
Swept Away (2002), which I thought is a great mix of sick humor and a
beautiful romance, Gigli (2003), which was great entertainment with
some really memorable lines and not badly acted at all from the former
"Bennifer"-Couple, and this year it's "Basic Instinct 2"! Well, when I
heard the rumors of a sequel to one of my favorite movies I was very
sceptically, and although I really love Sharon Stone I stayed
sceptically until I've finally seen this movie. And really, I was very
positively surprised! I can't understand why it gets such a bad press
and such a bad voting here. It never simply copies the original, it has
a quite clever story, has tension, action, humor and the absolutely
stunning Sharon Stone reprising the role of her life! With 47 years
when shooting the movie she looks hotter than many stars in their 20s,
but it's more than her being beautiful, it's brilliantly acted, with
all her looks, her famous smile, the way she speaks and moves... from
the very first frame she's in you can't take your eyes off of her. It's
simply a pleasure to watch her as Catherine Tramell, and all of the
other actors deliver solid performances, too! So I really can't see
what's wrong with this movie... it has a dark, thrilling, sexy and
gritty look, strong performances, and you never felt bored! Maybe the
story isn't Oscar-caliber, but it never even tries to be! It's an
entertainment-movie, and by this standard it absolutely delivers in my
opinion! So give it a try!
