
This film receives a 10 for disturbing subject matter. It is at times
very difficult to watch. The characters are troubled, each in his/her
own way. It feels edgy and often very foreign. With that warning, I
must say that on some level I enjoyed the film. Technically it is
superb. The character development is wonderful, the story intriguing
and the plot is gripping. As the plot unfolds, you are forced to change
your opinions about each of the characters. At first I despised the
main character but felt much sympathy for her towards the end. Not an
uplifting film, but that is certainly not what the screenwriter nor the
director intended. I suspect that it will be an award winner.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into this movie thinking it would suck based on reviews. I was
surprised that it actually was interesting and provocative. I think
some people might have trouble handling the subject matter and the fact
that it's treated with equal parts seriousness and humor. But
uncomfortable laughter to me is the sign of a movie that actually
pushes some of our buttons and that's a good thing. The cast here is
wonderful, in particular Elisha Cuthbert, who proves she can act and
Katy Mixon, who nails the bitchy teen banter that can be so typical in
other movies. The direction is heavy handed at times but the humor does
a good job of undercutting the heavy atmopshere. The ending does have
some problems which I won't post here since I don't want to give
anything away, but overall I think any movie that manages to be this
disturbing is worth a look. I suspect this film will be re-evaluated
when its time has come.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is very different from everything else out there, which is
one reason why it has gotten so much attention here on IMDb. Some love
it, some hate it, just like every movie. The subject matter is not the
most appealing to the public, but I think that it gives the movie
character. Looking back I can see many of the things that should have
been changed, but the movie is a break out. A different type of movie,
it is so different than everything else out there. It is original, and
out-there.

When watching this film you MUST be open-minded. Do not look at any of
the negative reviews and watch the movie fresh of mind. If you know
everything that is going to happen it makes it less entertaining too.
If you have no clue what the movie was about I think it also gives it
that much more of a sharper edge.
<|_=00=_|>
The Quiet (Toronto Film Festival Cut) Mr. Black's Grade: B Starring
Edie Falco, Elisha Cuthbert, and Shawn Ashmore.

Directed by Jamie Babbit, who is apparently known for lighter TV fare.
She has thrown that out the window with The Quiet. Dot (Camilla Belle),
a deaf orphan girl, is sent to live with a wholesome foster family, but
soon realizes all is not cop-acetic.

Something about this film really hit me. It is a very dark and adult
tale set in any town USA. You would find me to be a quiet guy
generally, and I like to listen to folks have to say. When you pay
attention, people will tell you the most amazing things. 'Dot'
certainly goes through that in this film. This is a story about
teenagers, and it is appealing that they act that way, saying stupid
things and not being 'wise' beyond their years.

The film captured High School for me to a tee, and featured nice pacing
and a better than expected performance from the ever-so-lovely Elisha
Cuthbert. Some folks may get completely turned off by the subject
material, since this is very dark, depressing and very adult material.
But for some reason the 'Dot' character really got me...
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie last night. And haven't been able to get it out
of my mind. I liked it so much - and at so many levels - I hardly know
where to begin.

First, there's the darkness. Quiet, and not-so-quiet, darkness is
everywhere in so many ways. This is neo-noir at its best.

Then there's the humor. Frankly, I didn't realize how much humor there
was until I had read the other comments on this movie. While watching
the movie I kept catching myself letting out a chuckle at the oddest
times, or so I thought: but then I realized others around me were
laughing at the same times; and, like me, sort of catching ourselves:
all the laughter was quick, disturbed laughter. Still, the other
commentators are right: humor is definitely an important and surprising
feature of this movie. Very dark humor, very quirky and ironic humor,
but humor sprinkled (if that's the word) throughout the rough texture
of this movie.

The subject matter was handled superbly in my opinion. Sexual abuse is
always disturbing matter. I kept thinking of comparisons between this
movie and "Hard Candy" and "The Woodsman." regarding how this very
challenging material is depicted. In "The Quiet," The attention to the
"systems" dynamics of abuse was very disturbing, but very realistic.
Nina's ambivalence about her incestuous relationship with her father;
her manipulation of him; her dreams of bloody revenge; her myriad ways
of "coping" with the ongoing horror that both horrifies her (and us)
and is so much a part of her life that it's just 'the way things are"
to her in so many ways. Her father's interactions with her are
thoroughly realistic. And so is the whole world of Nina's mother. "Hard
Candy" and "The Woodsman" in their ways also confront the complex
dynamic of sexual abuse. However, for depth and breadth in depicting
these dynamics, I really think "The Quiet" comes out clearly superior
to the other two movies, as fine as they are.

In addition, "The Quiet" sets side by side two very different - and yet
so very alike - forms of young trauma. Nina is traumatized by her
father's presence: sexually abusive, emotionally entrapping,
overwhelming and enveloping her world so much that she seeks all around
her opportunities to break out and escape. Dot, in contrast, is
traumatized by her father's absence: dead, stripped from her with a
suddenness and finality that leaves her utterly unreconciled to his
demise; reduced to ash that she dabs on her tongue but cannot taste.
Nina and Dot are both ambivalent in so many ways. Both blame themselves
in regard to their fathers; both love their fathers; and miss their
fathers; and both share so much more than is at all apparent at the
beginning of the movie.

The acting was just wonderful throughout. The lovely Elisha Cuthbert is
utterly convincing as Nina. Camilla Belle depicts Dot with a
sensitivity and darkness and vivid colorlessness that is both appealing
and repelling. Martin Donovan as Nina's father, and Edie Falco as
Nina's mother, are frankly to me simply perfect in their roles.

The depiction of high school life has been endorsed for its realism by
high schoolers both in the Comments and on the Message Board. Certainly
it comes across not only as a realistic teen world, but as a kind of
identity-defining context that attracts and repels and amuses, all at
once.

All in all, "The Quiet" is to me a superb combination of neo-noir
darkness, quirky humor, and deep, disturbing exploration of the
dynamics of trauma and sexual abuse. I think I'll try to see it again
before it goes out of the theatres.

I feel deeply grateful for this movie, and for all who were involved in
making it a reality. It's not often I find myself drawn back to see a
movie like this again and again. Thanks, folks!
<|_=00=_|>
shhhhh! a good movie....

The Quiet: sony classics 2006 color 91 mins. Drama Elisa Cuthbert,
Camilla Belle, Edie Falco, Martin Donovan, Shawn Ashmore, David
Gallagher and Katy Mixon star. Written by Abie Nazimian Directed by
Jamie Babit Rated R for strong language, violence and sexuality.

The Quiet is an interesting little film. It's not very mainstream but
doesn't feel completely indie. It's an ambitious project but has some
awkward moments. Camilla Belle of When a stranger Calls stars as as Dot
a deaf girl whose been adopted by her god parents after her fathers
untimely death. She's quiet, keeps to herself and is often teased by
the popular kids. Queen of the popular kids is Nina played surprisingly
well by Elisa Cuthbert of House of Wax. In addition to being the head
cheerleader, Nina is a supposed virgin with a raunchy attitude who is
daughter to the family that has adopted Dot. On one sleepless night Dot
enters the hallway and discovers that Nina is being sexually molested
by her father. When Nina learns of her discovery she taunts Dot by
telling her she is going to murder her father and that if she can hear
her she would be considered an accomplice. Can Dot hear? Can she speak?
What the quiet brings to the table is frankness of it's subject matter.
Which is pretty touchy. None of the characters are completely likable
but their seemingly realistic. Nina loves her father, and loves him
when she engages in sexual situations with him. She even uses those
situations to her advantage when receiving gifts and ignoring kurfews.
But make no mistake about it, she is angry and what he's doing is
making her disturbed. She hates him and loves him at the same time. Her
actions are irrational as they should be of a girl her age enduring
what she goes through. It brings about a level of confusion that has
never been explored in this specific way. Enter Dot Nina's polar
opposite she's not popular, she's quiet and seemingly has little to no
personality. But the girls share a deep rooted pain Dot has lost her
father, after losing her mother to cancer. And Nina lost her father
along time ago and too some degree blames everyone around her for it.
His actions only instigate her depression further when it comes to a
question of murder. Edie Falco of Freedomland stars as Nina's mother a
depressed woman taking way too much medication but seemingly knows
whats going on. Martin Donovan of Saved stars as Nina's perverse
father, Sexy Shawn Ashmore of X-men stars as Connor the virginal school
jock whom has a secret crush on Dot and Katy Mixon fills out the cast
as Nina's annoyingly cynical best friend. But what the quiet is about
is these two girls. Nina and Dot are performed exceptionally by Camilla
Belle and especially Elisa Cuthbert. The direction is decent and the
film is nicely paced with tidbits of suspense thrown in but never fully
executed so it can become a USA type thriller. But the films ultimate
presence is a bit confused it wants to be indie but seems ultimately
mainstream. It's subject matter and performances suggest a film of
deeper impact but instead are settled upon by just being a good flick.
Either way this film should be seen and not taken lightly. As
mainstream as it is the film offers an original point of view on a
disturbing situation.
<|_=00=_|>
What would you do if you had a friend who supposedly is deaf and cannot
speak? Would you confide your darkest secrets? Especially when you have
to get it out, but fear being outed? I think in some ways we wish we
could all do this since we have so much bottled up inside us, that's
why I rented The Quiet, I didn't realize how dark this movie truly was
until I saw it with my friend today. This story was so disturbing and
horrific in my opinion, even though I'm not sure it's within my tastes,
but it actually was a pretty well made movie.

Dot is a deaf teenager who has just been adopted by her godparents, she
also cannot speak, she is the outcast at school, and lost her parents
at a young age. Nina is the parent's daughter who is very popular and
has a very dark secret with her "daddy". When Nina spots Dot playing
the piano, Dot has a secret of her own that just might out what is
happening in their family.

The Quiet is a very interesting plot that I found to be unique and
pretty good. The acting is alright, I was surprised by how well the
film worked and how well directed it was. I think the thing is though,
it's one of those movies you can only see once, you'll see what I mean,
because it touches bases you'd never think where a movie would go, you
know? But I think we all need those type of movies every once in a
while.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Go watch "The Quiet"! Quickly! I can't get over what a good film it is
 what a surprise! After watching The Quiet, I checked out its many
awful critic reviews, then looked at it on the good old IMDb. Another
surprise - it pretty much has nothing but raving user reviews  the
People have spoken. I'm inclined to agree, as I picked the film up
because I heard it was a thriller about normal people's dark, guilty
secrets, which is always fun! I didn't really know much about the
actual plot, and so, late last night, when I bunged it on the DVD with
the idea of watching ten or so minutes before bed, I found that I
couldn't stop watching it. I felt *compelled* to watch, even when the
film was plumbing it's darkest depths and I was hanging over the edge
of my seat feeling at my most unsettled and muttering to myself things
like "mad" and "off key". If you don't already know what happens, I
assure you, you will be completely surprised. The subject matter is one
of those ones that some people think should never be dramatised, and it
definitely *does* leave you unsettled (catch the scene where Nina
confides her plan to Dot in the cafeteria  disturbing!), but I would
say it will stick in my head, as apart from the twists, and the intense
construction of suspense, the characters, who all start out as
unsympathetic, go through such brilliantly contrived arcs, that you
find yourself empathising with even the most evil. The two main
characters are wicked  Elisha Cuthbert from 24 packs a stirring punch
as the popular cheerleader from Hell with an unbelievable dark side and
a complex set of issues, while Camille Bell puts in a career topping
turn as not-so-deaf Dot, keeper of everyone's secrets  and work really
well together. You also may find yourself laughing nervously a certain
points and feeling bad for doing so, but that just means that the
makers have provoked a reaction Basically, I totally got more than I
expected and I would recommend The Quiet to most people as shocking but
compelling viewing! But, *don't* watch if you can't stand a film that
makes you a bit uncomfortable, or one that makes you feel kinda guilty
for liking it!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie on opening night with a group of my girlfriends. We
were divided on it. A few felt it took itself too seriously. Others,
myself included, felt its consistent tone of bleak bewilderment was the
source of its humor. Our diverging opinions made me feel that the movie
is a true work of art. Most movies manipulate our emotions telling us
to laugh, cry, or be scared. Here's a movie that demands so much of its
viewer and elicits different reactions in each. For my money though,
the whole thing is a satire and everyone is in on the joke. How else to
explain the inclusion of the ingenious Katy Mixon as Barbarella in high
school? Or Edie Falco's wild eye-rolling turn as a druggie? A friend
just alerted me to this amazing You Tube page. Just type in "The
Quieter" and you'll see what I mean. For those who appreciated the
movie as much as I did, it's icing on the cake. Here's the link:

http://www.youtube.com/profile_videos?user=Zekeness
<|_=00=_|>
the reason why I think it was worth 10 is story was great, you follow
the persons i there every day life at school and home, the reason for
there behavior and the reason for what person they have become slowly
come's together at the end. Each scene tell's so much, Nina are
struggling keep a balance in her life and never get's a chance, her
mother has given up and deal with her life trough drugs and Dot who
pretend that's she doesn't now what's going on. I had that feeling at
the end that I wish it could go on and never stop. Elisha Cuthbert and
Camilla Belle play excellent an is a pure joy to watch and they a well
supported the rest of the cast.
