
I mean - I'm a fairly harsh critic and I hate most every gay movie that
comes out (I'm gay BTW) and I was poised for this one to annoy the crap
out of me. But it started and I'll tell you - I was wiping away the
tears (from laughter) from pretty much the opening sequence. The four
men they found for the four leads were astoundingly, shamelessly
gleeful in their complicated renderings of these boys - they didn't
phone anything in - even the gratuitous (I'm a littly prudish, I guess)
flatulation sequence was imbued with a sincerity and a sweetness that
was welcome and unexpectedly necessary and it made it actually,
genuinely funny. That doesn't happen often with flatulation jokes for
me. And I think that description defines the entire film for me - it
was unexpectedly inspired and made me laugh when I wouldn't have
typically. And I cried, too - for the sweetness of one story line. I
usually feel manipulated and ridiculous after a romantic comedy but
something happens in this film that brings it home - I wasn't angry and
I wanted it to go on and on and on. As a gay film buff I guess it was
hugely satisfying to see the same stupid movie I've seen seven thousand
times about straight people remade - and reconsidered - and turned into
something that I could claim as my own. I got it - and I don't usually
get to get it. It's a special hour and a half - I hope everyone gets to
see it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is totally lighthearted and non-stop funny with adorable
guys, silly satire and music. A take-off on the teen genre but totally
wink-wink and sweet. I wasn't crazy about the Nambla joke but this
movie totally has its heart in the right place. After all, don't gay
teens deserve the same coming-of-age movie that straight teens do?
Sure, it's not for the weak of heart or the religious fundamentalist,
but who cares? It's good, dirty fun about love, sex, desire and
friendship. Sure, it's a fantasy world with understanding parents, hot
teachers, no homophobia and true love but that was my favorite thing
about the movie. Also loved the cameos from Graham Norton, Richard
Hatch, Scott Thompson, and many others. I shall never look at Graham
Norton the same way. See this movie, it's totally great...
<|_=00=_|>
Funnier movie has not been made! I saw this at the Provincetown
International Filmfestival a few days ago together with 150 other film
patrons. After 15 seconds we were all laying on the floor laughing out
loud. As every imaginable (and unimaginable) aspect of gay life is
brought up the laughter grew and the audience went nuts. There is
nothing American Conservative about this move, it has a fresh crisp
feeling to it, the footage is fantastic. The humor and the jokes are
over the top, well, unless you can't tolerate full frontal nudity, open
discussion about all kinds of sex, from carrots to Belgian Chocolate
(you will find out what this is). One thing is for sure, the religious
right and the conservative wing of the world will scream if they see
this move. But, they don't have to. We all have a choice. And, with
that being said, if you want to get a laughter, or better said, an
evening of laughter, go see this movie when it opens up on July 28. It
is said there will be a Blockbuster version of it, but honestly, there
will be nothing left once censorship strikes. This movie is a blast!
Wow! ....and no one paid me to say this!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie just played to sold out houses and rave reviews at the
Provincetown International Film Festival. It is not for everyone,
namely those that skate towards the politically correct and are in
general overly sensitive. This is not a movie for the professionally
outraged and offended. It is subversive and albeit filthy and raunchy,
but at the same time, believe it or not, is intelligent and skewers the
best and worst of modern day gay culture and gay life. It is so
refreshing to see a gay movie that doesn't suck, as many, many do. It
is fearless and makes no apologies and doesn't try to be anything that
it isn't. No angst, no saccharine love story, no overt moral message.
Its just good ole fashioned raunch homo humor!
<|_=00=_|>
I have heard different justifications for the making this film. The
most often is this need for a coming of age teen sex comedy equivalent
to Porky's, Animals House, and American Pie for gays and lesbians. The
problem is did it ever occur to anyone that the very fact gays and
lesbian teens were the polar opposites of the teens depicted in such
films was something positive and to be proud of. So now we have some
lame filmmakers who not only go an emulate these brainless hetero teen
movies but they make them into basic softcore gay sex porn with a bunch
of really lowbrow dumb gay jokes that even the stupidest straight
person could probably come up with. Taking a dump on a glass table is
not remotely funny. It's just downright gross and tasteless. That's
pretty much this lame film in a nutshell.
<|_=00=_|>
This was billed as a typical teenage sex comedy, only gay. And it was!
The humor was raunchy and tacky, the plot predictable, and the movie
was full of teenage stereotypes acting out the clich√©'d summer movie
genre full-force.

I was surprised at how really well done it was. The production values
were high, and it pretty much followed the American Pie story-line, but
with gay characters (all supposedly teenagers, though they stretched in
a couple of cases) and gay situations. It was hilarious and couldn't
possibly have been made ten years ago. The only sad part is that it's
unrated, so lbgt teenagers won't have the chance to see it.

I suspect this movie's rating will reflect not the movie, itself, but
the relative eagerness of gays/homophobes to cast their votes as 10 or
1.
<|_=00=_|>
Why are most of the comments here so hateful!? THIS MOVIE IS F**KIN
AWESOME! gay or str8, anybody can enjoy this, albeit i think gay people
would find some jokes more funny... This is just a spoof of American
Pie! It's supposed to be a spoof! Why is everyone complaining about
"originality" or "stereotypes"!? American PIE WAS ALL STEREOTYPES,
THEREFORE THIS, A SPOOF, SHOULD ALSO INCLUDE THAT! When I saw this in
the theatre, I saw adds for lots of other gay movies with varied
subject matter: drama, comedy, foreign sexcapades, everything. This is
just one in a huge pool of movies. Not every "gay movie" has to make
"gay people" look "good", whatever the hell that means. If you liked
American Pie, and even if you didn't, but you saw it, and u WANT A
REALLY FUNNY, INTERESTING TWIST ON THIS WHOLE GENRE OF MOVIES, then go
see it and tell these other people to stop bringing agendas to every
film you see. The butch lesbian, by far, the funniest character. Every
scene with her is comedic timing genius. Don't listen to the negative
reviews, just have a little fun with a funny movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I am gay, and yes, I have a sense of humor, and yes, this is one
of the worst movies I have ever seen in my entire life. And no, not
because it is gross, and not because there is too much sex, but because
there is not one single funny moment in the entire movie. I sat there
stupefied -- too inert to turn the damned thing off. 

I saw Todd Stephens' "Edge of Seventeen," and OK it was kind of
amateurish, but it had a good heart. This movie has nothing but kind of
cute guys. That's it. And I agree with other posters that much of the
"parody" is (or should be) extremely offensive to gays or lesbians or
Asians or really most anyone. And it doesn't even show that much skin,
despite what other reviewers have said. (It is not "full of frontal
nudity" -- it has a single closeup of Richard Hatch's johnson.)

Friends recommended this movie, and maybe it's better seen in a theater
full of people (rather than rented and seen at home, as I did), but the
laughter would be by association rather than anything genuinely funny
in the movie. I also watched "Little Miss Sunshine" on DVD at home, and
it had me laughing out loud.

Run as far away as you can from this movie. Rent something by John
Waters. Anything. Amazingly, incredibly bad.
<|_=00=_|>
There is nothing even remotely redeeming about this movie. It's crass,
crude, rude, disgusting, dumb, not funny, and just all around trash
with absolutely no value whatsoever. As someone who is gay, I even find
this not only deeply insulting but deeply offensive. Every single
character in the film is depicted as a sex crazed pervert with the
exception of the drag queen playing the mother. I would have rather
seen an entire movie about her. The talent of Lypsinka was absolutely
wasted here in this pile of waste. I watched this in a theatre of about
ten other people and there was very little laughter throughout what
seemed like an eternity dragging on. I would not only not recommend
anyone seeing it but I would recommend anyone to act as if this
politically incorrect godawful film never existed. Was it trying to
make a political statement? Was it parodying American Pie? Was it
parodying itself? Was it trying to be a poor man's John Walters (uh, if
that's even possible). It really is impossible to understand because it
is a train wreck of heinous proportions.
<|_=00=_|>
AGM could easily have been a flop, as many movies in its genre have
been. But plenty of comic ideas, a refreshing sense of fun, hilarious
sets, good acting and direction, and less attitude kept this film from
the midpoint decay and low sustain that can hurt such films.

The director went for some hot action scenes which can be hard to pull
off in a comedy. But the director made them work enjoyably without
losing the comic energy. Eat your heart out, QAF!

I saw AGM as a part of Seattle's International Film Festival. The big
audience very thoroughly enjoyed it. It's not Rocky Horror, but it
might be a sleeper classic of a whole new thang.
