
This is an absolutely wonderful film in every respect. Don't be thrown
off by the critics. They are wrong! I went away feeling that this is
one of the most enjoyable films that I have ever seen. Wheras it is an
excellent "family" film, it will be enjoyed by people of all ages.
Bring along a tissue or two. Some of the scenes will bring forth an
overwhelming emotional rush of what those boys were able to accomplish.
What is so amazing is that the story is actually true. I can't believe
that the release had so little publicity and is playing in so few
theaters in the US. I saw it by accident. Don't miss it. It is
WONDERFUL
<|_=00=_|>
The film The Perfect Game is a great story of the underdog defeating
adversity at home and in public. This young team of Mexicans band
together against all odds to form a Little League team in Monterey to
be entered into the 1957 competition against the powerhouses of 12-year
old baseball Americans. Not only must they overcome a novice at best
skill at the gamehelped enormously by their ex-Major League towel boy
turned coachbut also the bigotry and racism of a segregated America
not yet ready to see foreigners from below the southern border hand
their precious kids a lesson in humility. Standing on its own, the
story is quite the tale and intriguing at every turn. However, this is
not a book, it is a visual medium and in that respect doesn't live up
to the quality of its plot. A made-for-TV movie at best, this film is
very heavy-handed and way too feel-good for anyone with a brain hoping
to find something that may stimulate a cell up there in his skull.
Laughable in its saccharine drenched contrivances and score's
orchestral swells just begging to elicit sentimental tears, the
Lifetime movie of the week quality definitely distracted this viewer,
one who was intent on learning a story and seeing it all play out, not
just to watch close-ups of pouting boys and cheesy smiles.

Don't get me wrong, people looking for the uplifting story of success,
when no one gave them a chance, will be very pleased. The amount of
applause DURING the screening proves that point as viewers definitely
get invested in these types of tales. For me, however, I need a little
more, some real stakes that at times showed facethe coach's drunken
misstep that risks deporting them all due to expired visasbut mostly
just bridge us to the next heartfelt moment. Stereotypes and clichés
abound leading me to tell you all to make sure you check your mind at
the door; it will not be needed. I don't want to fault any of the
acting, except of course Emilie de Ravin's atrocious accent that made
me want to wring her neck, because it isn't bad considering the script
and material. Clifton Collins Jr. is a favorite of mine and while at
times is very out of his element playing off of a troupe of children,
brings some of his standard brood and contemplative thinking. Used to
playing psychotics, whether extreme as in Rules of Attraction or
introverted as in Capote, casting him as the coach finding his heart
again is a bold choice. For the most part it is a gamble that pays off.

As for the rest of the cast, I was completely thrown off by the amount
of familiar faces being that I truly had not even heard of the film
before being given the preview pass. Stalwarts like Bruce McGill, John
Cothran Jr., Frances Fisher, and Chris Mulkey all make appearances
alongside Louis Gossett Jr., (talk about a blast from the past). Even
David Koechner reins in his annoyance for a decent cameo that brings a
couple laughs. However, the kids definitely become the heart of the
tale. Head-shaking for the fact that "Heroes" star Hayden Panettiere's
younger brother Jansen is playing a Mexican aside, the kids are very
cute and fun to spend time with. You have your common traits for each
to overcome and be friends despite of them, as well as the father/son
dynamic needed to bring the heavy emotion. Unfortunately the chasm
between Papa Macias and his last living son is so huge and so front and
center, the inevitable reconciliation is so obvious that it loses all
impact it might have had.

A warning must be said as well concerning the make-up of the film. Yes,
there are many montages and time lapses to save time, however, you
experience a ton of baseball. Whether an inning or abridged games in
their entirety, director William Dear shows a little piece of each stop
to the championship. The cuts are quick and often, so I wouldn't be
surprised if much of the actual baseball action was faked, but they do
their job to portray what was being done. A family film from start to
finish, I was the least bit surprised to find that Dear also helmed
Angels in the Outfield. More life-affirming tale then sports flick,
don't be afraid to take your young ones to a movie even though it stars
Cheech Marin. Long gone are his Cheech and Chong days, playing the
priest that starts the seed of baseball in the small Mexican town,
Marin brings some subtle chuckles, but mostly plays the rock opposite
Collins Jr.'s conflicted hero. Never surprising at any moment, The
Perfect Game may not be brilliance at the movies, but for what it is,
you could do much worse than partake in a courageous true story while
sitting through the candy-coated exuberance of it all.
<|_=00=_|>
This dramatization of the 1957 World Little League Champions is just a
terrific watch - sure, it is a little clichéd in places - but what
sports movie isn't, but it has the same vibe as The Mighty Ducks and
The Bad News Bears except that is based on a true story.

All in all, baseball films are nearly always good to watch, and this is
no exception - the team is fun, the story is built well, the film is
nicely edited, you get a ton of baseball, and the moral compass is
firmly fixed to good throughout.

One of the better sports films for kids - and adults - and one that
deserves a wide audience.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie because my daughter loves sports movies. It
was completely enjoyable although a little bit clichéd. 

The acting was not that good but there were so many feel good moments
that I could completely forgive any faults I may have found. I even
clapped at the end. 

My daughter's friend was cheering as if he were actually at the game.
What made this even more special is the knowledge that this "perfect"
game actually happened and, along with the end credits, we got to see
the actual players. This is a great movie for the whole family, and
that in itself, is a great feat!
<|_=00=_|>
The Perfect Game movie would be a great movie to release right now.
This is especially true now since baseball has moved from becoming a
wonderful and meaningful sport to a business and profit making venture.
The movie will serve has a true motivator for kids and will inspire all
viewers alike. Based a a true story, the movie truly shows how a poor
group of Mexican kids went from being no bodies to a team that changed
a county and the city of Monterrey, Mexico. Having played on the team
that Angel Macias Barba threw the perfect game against, I can truly say
how unique the story is, how it still affects both teams to this day
and what it meant to each one of the Monterrey team members. Both the
La Mesa and Monterrey teams have been privileged to see the movie and
read the book. We all can attest to the hard work that William Winocur
put into both the book and movie script.He definitely brought the four
years of research, writing and movie work to life. Compared to most of
what Liongate is now releasing, this would be a fun,
inspiring,wholesome, family and clean movie for all.It's time for
something really worth seeing and walking away from with a sense a
appreciation.
<|_=00=_|>
The Perfect Game is a nice, feel-good, crowd-pleasing, human values,
baseball-packed movie. It is, indeed, based on a true story, but the
fictional elements are so heavy and full of stereotypes, that they
become a burden for the viewer and for the movie itself. The odd thing
about it all is that some of the things that seem the most incredible
are true. Yet still, a key character in the story -a Gringo- is left
out of it. Why?

Here come the spoilers.

Something true. 

The basic line of the story is true. The 13 straight games won by the
kids from Monterrey. The perfect game pitched by Àngel Macías -I
watched him play as an outfielder for Poza Rica 7 years later-, some
key plays. Things that may ring as an exaggeration are also true. Coach
César Faz had been a bat-boy for the St.Louis Browns, the kids did
cross the US- Mexico line walking in their baseball uniforms(it was a
bridge, though); they ran against some racist behavior; there was an
attempt to deport them in Biloxi, as their visas had expired; they were
given discounts and even a free meal in local restaurants, as their
legend grew; they ran out of money and depended on a fund raising
effort in Monterrey; the uniforms they were offered for the final game
were way too big for them; most of them were working class kids and
even the relationship between coach César Faz and María is true. The
little players did meet President Eisenhower and the Brooklyn Dodgers.
This was more than enough to make a sound film.

Something false. 

You don't make a baseball team in four weeks. The Liga Pequeña
Industrial had been set four years prior to the championship. It was a
proper Little League, with a proper field and stadium and they, of
course, knew what a baseball looked like. The team had been playing
together so long that they wore in 1957 the same uniform they had used
in 1956 -when they beat other leagues in Monterrey-. Monterrey was an
industrial city of half a million people, not a semi-rural town with a
steel mill in the middle of nowhere, and baseball was the main sport
played over there -in 1957 it had a strong team in the Mexican Baseball
League, but not a first division soccer team-. César Faz was a US-born,
after being deemed too short for MLB, decided to make a career as a
manager. He coached Nuevo León State team to the National finals the
year before, and was hired -nominally as a worker in FAMA machinery
factory- to take the 12 year olds to the World Championship. There were
14 players, not 9, and there was no priest with them -even though it is
said that they were religious children. And, at their arrival from the
US, they were received by thousands of admirers both in Mexico City and
in Monterrey. 

Something missing. 

One of the key men behind the Mexican kids' victory was an American,
Harold "Lucky" Haskins, a former war-hero who helped fund, with his
personal money, the Liga Pequeña Industrial, the working-class Little
League where the champions came from. It was Haskins who gave them
gloves, bats and uniforms, it was him who intervened to clear the visa
problem for the children. It was him, the manager of FAMA machinery
factory, who paid Faz. Why is he left out? Probably because he was a
bigamist -not good for a religion oriented movie-, or probably because
his intervention would prevent a couple of Hollywood clichés from
appearing. Anyway, I felt it was an injustice done to a good man.
<|_=00=_|>
So what? Some of the characters are over the top. Some of the actors
playing the kids from Monterrey might have pushed the stereotype, but
quite frankly, I LOVED IT! The movie is entertaining and such a joy to
watch, and it's supposed to be stereotypical. If we can't laugh at
ourselves and our own not so perfect life, then we'd be rather dull
wouldn't we? If I recall my trip to Monterrey, where I have encountered
trans-gendered, gay, and transsexuals; who live their lives as normally
as any of us do, they are very much like how the actors portrayed them
in the movie. If this movie misrepresents diversity, then I would beg
to differ. Being a gay man myself, and knowing all the obstacles that
come with acceptance, the LAST thing I'd want to do is JUDGE something
we have no real connection to. I have never put on a dress, have never
walked in their shoes. I do play a mean game of baseball though, and if
I were to meet these lads across the net, I would be honored to play
with them as I would any other team. GAME ON! For the team! May the
best "man" win.
<|_=00=_|>
If you liked movies like The Blind Side, Hoosiers or League of Their
Own then you will like this movie. Quick description, this movie is a
based on the true story of a little league baseball team from Monterey
Mexico that came to the USA to play in the little league tournament.
The movie is set in 1957 when prejudice was healthy in America. I am
pleased to say that they did not overdo the part of the struggle. These
boys were underdogs in every sense of the definition; they were poor,
smaller and foreign. This is a powerful beautiful movie of the power of
children's love for the game and their desire to overcome obstacles. I
do not want to give too much of the story away, but I will touch on a
few points. The movies color, lighting and sets are very well done for
a very low budget film, which is not easy to recreate 1957 Mexico and
America. I really liked the actors and their roles, Cheech Marin put a
nice zip in being a priest and Clifton Collins is a great little known
actor as the coach. There were a lot of great actors in smaller parts
David Koechner, Frances Fisher, Emilie DeRavin, John Cothran, Tracy
Walter and it was really nice to see Louis Gossett Jr again. I was a
little disappointed that the child actors were not Mexican decent,
mainly because the accents were way off. Other than that there were
only minimal complaints of over acting, clichés and tempo, that did NOT
rob from the spirit of the movie. Fantastic movie, that is more than a
movie, for anyone who has ever been an underdog.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate to see the film, compliments of studio movie grille,
and I was not disappointed. 

I thought it was a classic "feel good" family movie. Yeah, it won't win
any awards, but it will win over your heart. 

For some that need "deeper" in a movie for it to be worthy of praise,
forget a' bout' it. 

It's simple and to the point, yeah, you know what's coming next, but
that's alright, it's why we go the movies with our families!

Get it, watch it, enjoy it. Yes, just that simple.

I thought they did a good job of making it all look fifties. Just like
the movie, simple times.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the movie and actually was around when this all took place. Who
cares if they embellished some things and left out others the story was
told to show young people if they work hard at something that is
important to them, they can reach their goals, become successful and
feel proud of their achievements. 

This movie also showed the discrimination that took place in certain
areas during this time period and how the players overcame the
challenges this put upon them. 

This was a life lesson that all our young people could learn from. Both
my grandchildren play baseball and they loved this movie. Their parents
and grandparents watched it with them and got as much enjoyment out of
the movie as they did.

.
