
I went and saw this movie with my high school drama group, we had
recently done Suessical for a school musical and I played the Mayor of
Whoville, and I enjoyed the whole thing from start to finish. The cast
of this film did an outstanding job with the voices of the characters,
Jim Carrey is most notable in my opinion. Steve Carell also did an
amazing job as the Mayor of Whoville.It also has good, clean humor that
is both funny and suitable for all ages. I laughed through nearly 90%
of the film and I didn't see one thing that would be deemed
inappropriate for someone young. This movie lives up to the legacy of
the book and I don't care what age you are, you will laugh out loud and
enjoy this hilarious Dr. Seuss movie.
<|_=00=_|>
For the first time in years, I can state wholeheartedly that this film
is the most faithful adaptation of Dr. Suess's children's books EVER
being brought to the big screen with the voice talents of Jim Carrey,
Steve Carell, and of course, Carol Burnett. I've never thought that
Suess's cartoon illustrations can be so wonderfully spot on in this
film with its bright, crisp colors, and flawless animation. What's
great about all this is that they expand upon the film, rather than
improving it with excess baggage like they did in 2004's live-action
flop "The Cat in The Hat" which pretty much was "The Batman & Robin"
adaptation of the classic children's book and I hated that film with an
utmost loathsome passion. At least "The Grinch Who Stole Christmas" was
entertaining in its own right, though I admit it too was a little
nauseating; namely because some scenes had so many garishly lit colors
and was a bit too over the top. With all that aside, "Horton Hears a
Who" not only will be the best animated film of the year, but may also
win an Oscar for "Most Faithful Adaptation of a Children's Classic". I
think this film will appeal to children and adults and for those who
read the book since childhood not to mention serve as another venue of
wholesome family entertainment for the general audience.
<|_=00=_|>
So far, this is the best possible example of bringing a Dr. Seuss book
to life. The animation is top notch and the design of the characters
stay true to Dr. Seuss' vision. Overall, a splendid effort from 20th
Century Fox.

"Horton" tells the story of an eccentric elephant named Horton (voice
of Jim Carrey) who stumbles upon a floating speck that is actually an
infinitesimal world that is home to thousands of tiny little creatures
called Whos. Though microscopic, the world known as Whoville is a land
of technological achievement. The Whos are intelligent little creatures
who are strange in appearance.

The Major of Whoville (voice of Steve Carell) is the first person to
come into contact with Horton after he hears his voice in a drainpipe.
Like Horton, he has a somewhat bizarre personality, so no one believes
him when he claims that the world is going to end. Likewise, no one
believes Horton when he claims that a race of people are living on the
diminutive speck.

After he is somewhat shunned by his friends and society, Horton sets
off on the misadventure of his lifetime to relocate the speck to a safe
location so that the citizens of Whoville can live in peace once more.

Again, this is a great film for all ages. Kids will lap up the lush
animation while parents can have a chuckle at the adult jokes that are
scattered throughout. Dr. Seuss would be proud.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the first teaser trailer for Horton Hears a Who a few months ago,
and I have to say that it was a little off putting, it looked kind of
strange and like it might be another Cat in the Hat lousy movie, but
then they started advertising it a little more and it looked more cute.
So I decided to check the film out today and I am really impressed, so
far I'd say this is the best animated film of 2008 that I've seen. I
remember reading the book as a child, it's one of my old time
favorite's, you could never go wrong with Dr. Suess. When it comes to
his films being put up on the silver screen, excluding the 40 minute
cartoon classic How the Grinch Stole Christmas, other films like The
Grinch and The Cat in the Hat have been ultimate flops and horrible.
But Horton Hears a Who proves otherwise and is a wonderful film to
watch.

Horton is an elephant just enjoying life, he's a teacher and is loved
very much by the little animals of the jungle. But his life is about to
change when he sees a little speck and saves it, inside this speck is a
little town of Whoville. The mayor of Whoville has asked Horton to take
them to a safe place before his town is destroyed. Seems like an easy
enough task for Horton, until an angry mother, Kangaroo, feels like
Horton and his speck are a bad influence amongst the children, and
wishes to destroy the speck and trap Horton.

Horton Hears a Who is such a wonderful film. For a book that you can
finish in half an hour, they did a great job filling in other lines and
such great jokes. The great thing is there is no pop culture or over
the top jokes, they just go old school and make this film fun and
original. The actors seemed like they just had a great time getting
into character, Steve Carell and Jim Carrey are a brilliant
combination, so their voices added a lot to the film. The animation was
clever and colorful, it was a joy to watch. I very much recommend
Horton Hears a Who, it's a terrific family film and just a fun movie to
watch for the afternoon, I think Dr. Suess would be very proud too.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's interesting to see a pretty big creature like Horton concerned
with protecting the tiniest creatures of all...even if the others in
the jungle of Nool may not believe that's he's right about all those
tiny people on the speck (well, maybe Rudy, the Sour Kangaroo's son,
may think he could be right...)

Lovable characters like Horton, who can be serious at times (and is
truly determined) but also wild-and-crazy, full of imagination and
whimsy. Like the mayor, who is determined to protect his city from the
dangers they're now being exposed to (who will protect the protector?
"A giant elephant, up in the sky!... Don't bother to look, he's
invisible...")

Had to admit a tear--of joy--rolled down my cheek at the end. Highly
recommended! The look of the film is visually stunning, and a good
voice cast (CBS Radio's Charles Osgood narrates; the mayor and his wife
are Steve Carrell and Amy Poehler, and Jim Carrey of course is Horton.
Carol Burnett plays the sour Kangaroo. And Jesse McCartney voices JoJo,
and let's just say he didn't have too many lines to remember :)
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. Seuss has not always found fortune when making his way from page to
screen. But, this latest incarnation is the most who-larious I've ever
seen. Get it? Who-larious? Like "hi-larious" but with "who". As in all
the Who's down in Whoville and little Cindy Lou Who? Fine, roll your
eyes but you'd be rhyming too if you stopped being so cynical and saw
HORTON HEARS A WHO! It's funny; it's goofy; it's surprising and loopy.
It's colorful and flashy; it's unexpected and splashy. Wait. Splashy?
Is that even a word? I needed something to rhyme with flashy and what I
came up with was absurd. Sorry, I promise I won't rhyme all the way
through. Besides I'm no match for Dr. You-Know-Who. It's just that this
movie is so darn adorable when all the previous Seuss movies have been
basically horrible. The spirit of the book remains completely intact
but it's modern somehow and as a matter of fact, the ideas have
expanded without looking back. Now, thanks to the good folks at Blue
Sky, the studio that gave us ICE AGE before this, Dr. Seuss can rest
easy, his legacy revered and no longer amiss. So pack up your car, pack
up your girl and your boy and bring them to see Horton, a movie the
whole family canÂ… hmm, what rhymes with "boy"? Employ? Coy? Toy?
Nevermind. Bring them to see Horton, a movie the whole family can
appreciate. 

All that rhyming was mildly exhausting. Let's move on to the
intellectualizing portion of this review. When HORTON HEARS A WHO! was
originally published in 1954, Dr. Seuss gave his young readers an
important lesson about how any voice, no matter how small it may appear
to be, can change the world. Screenwriters, Ken Dario and Cinco Paul,
have developed the confidence-boosting tale into a much grander take on
societal hierarchies, the power of the imagination and the possibility
that we are not alone in this universe. The very big elephant, Horton
(voiced in a lovably whimsical fashion of fancy by Jim Carrey),
randomly finds the tiniest world in the most unexpected of places, a
spec of dust that has flown past him to eventually rest comfortably on
a clover. It turns out that this world is known as Whoville. It plays
home to hundreds if not thousands of Who's and is run by a Who known
only as The Mayor. You can only imagine The Mayor's surprise when
Horton finally makes contact with him. Now imagine that surprise voiced
by the self-deprecating, neurotic genius of Steve Carrell. Together,
Carell and Carey play perfectly off each other as their performances
are based in the knowledge that Horton and The Mayor are not nearly as
different as they initially appear. Though one is huge and one is
small, they both know the meaning of responsibility and importance of
helping all who need.

Of course, back in the Jungle of Nool that Horton calls home, no one
believes his story about the people on the spec, so he must go it
alone. This would be fine if it weren't for one kangaroo (Carol
Burnett), the self-proclaimed ruler of this particular jungle. Horton's
flagrant use of his imagination could inspire others and before you
know it, all you got is anarchy. And so the door is opened to one of
many lessons that give this fable a great richness. While children are
not often discouraged to use their imaginations, here they are
encouraged to support what they believe to be true inside of their
hearts. In doing so, they should even challenge the status quo. Combine
that with Horton's perseverance, dedication and loyalty to his cause as
well as The Mayor's ability to rally his people together by overcoming
his insecurity to become a great leader and you've got a family film
focused on promoting fine values instead of promotional products for a
refreshing change. The best part is that the lessons never take away
from the fun!

I know I wouldn't have an easy time if a giant elephant I couldn't see
informed me that my whole universe was nothing more than a spec of
dust. This is why I'm not in charge of the planet, I suppose. Although
slightly less jarring, I was also thrown and most certainly impressed
by the existential depth of HORTON HEARS A WHO! Who knew that an
animated family flick could challenge the young minds of children the
world over to think for second about the fragility and preciousness of
life itself while cracking them up non-stop and without freaking them
out? Horton knew; that's who!

Oh wait Â… JOY!! Joy rhymes with boy. Right.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess it wouldn't be remiss if I've approached "Horton Hears a Who!"
with some reservations as the trailers were anything but something to
be excited about. Had it not been for the Whos and the Dr. Seuss tag
that comes with the title, this latest computer-animated film from the
"Ice Age" team would come off as yet another animal-on-a-mission flick
straight from the assembly line. And films adapted from one of Dr.
Seuss' books haven't been as successful as when they were in print, to
put it lightly.

A relatively neutered Jim Carrey provides the voice for Horton, an
elephant who hears a voice from a floating speck and discovers that
there are people actually living in it in a place called Who-ville.
Called the Whos, these people have a Mayor (voiced by an also-neutered
Steve Carrell) who has 96 daughters and a son who won't speak. It's up
to Horton to find a safe place for the speck to save Who-ville from
destruction, even as the well-meaning pachyderm has to avoid all sorts
of obstacles, including Sour Kangaroo, Vlad the Vulture, the Wickersham
brothers, and other metaphors of McCarthyism.

As usual with such a thin material, the film has the obligatory
additional scenes to pad the running time but all in all, it captures
the spirit of its source, and it's a case where a G-rated film provides
entertainment both to kids and their older companions as well. (I would
have said "a rare case" but in this country, the G-rating is applied
more liberally by the local censor board.) The animation is
consistently good and a Japanese-inspired traditional animation does
not feel out of place from the overall enjoyment material. The voice
cast, according to the credits, involves some relatively big names, but
other than Carrey and Carrell, none of the actors take attention from
their characters and thus do not distract.

Fast-paced and touching, "Horton Hears a Who!" represents a step up for
Blue Sky Studios, who has played supporting roles to Pixar and
Dreamworks. I'm tempted to say that it's the best Dr. Seuss film
adaptation ever, but that won't be saying much considering the other
films involved. So maybe I'll just say it's one of the best animated
films, which is anyway true.
<|_=00=_|>
Third time seems to be a charm for the big screen adaptations of Dr.
Seuss. Finally, the film world has gotten it write in the presentation
of Horton Hears A Who. There is no added surprises to this film, unlike
its predecessors The Grinch and The Cat in the Hat. The storyline
follows the book almost exactly, with the extra time coming from adding
detail instead of adding new events.

Jim Carey does a great job in bringing the character of Horton to live,
without being completely over the top. Carol Burnett as the Sour
Kangaroo brings just enough fright to her role as to not completely
darken the story. The characters are brought to live with the pure
intent of the Dr. Seuss without seeming fake.

This is a great film for kids, especially those who know the story very
well. There are enough jokes that sneak over little heads to keep
adults entertained as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm telling the truth...i thought this movie would be a stinker from
the teaser trailer and TV spots but this surprised me as well as every
other person at the screening. It even surprised the film operator!
Anyway, the great voice cast voiced by some great actors, Jim Carrey
and Steve Carrell and even Seth Rogen(which is a nice change for him,
from all his dirty cursing roles(don't get me wrong,i love him in those
roles)). Dane Cook was a little annoying, but it wont really distract
you from the big picture. In this film, Steve Carrell is the Mayor of
Who-Ville, a town on a dandelion full of tiny people. Jim Carrey plays
Horton...who is a elephant who finds a dandelion, picks it and figures
out he must protect it because of Who-ville. Seth Rogen plays a rat
like creature in his role. A supporting cast with Amy Poehler, Jonah
Hill, Dan Fogler and much more. This film is great for little kids and
a surprising delight for adults.
<|_=00=_|>
In the jungle of Nool, the elephant Horton hears a voice in a speck; he
uses a clover to rescue the speck of dust and he makes contact with the
Mayor of Whoville. Horton discovers that in that tiny speck there is a
city crowded of people and he decides to leave Whoville in a safe
place. However, the evil Kangaroo does not believe in his words and
finds Horton dangerous for the children of Nool, making them believe in
what they can not see, hear or feel, and incites the animals against
Horton.

With the message "A Person Is a Person No Matter How Small", "Horton
Hears a Who!" is a lesson of respect and rights of the minorities
through hilarious situations. The animation is awesome, the characters
are nice and I liked this great family entertainment. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Horton e o Mundo dos Quem!" ("Horton and the World of
Who!")
