
This film has possibly the worst ending of any HP film, and wandered
the furthest from the books. If you are a fan of the books, this is for
you: 

Remember that cool battle at Hogwart's at the end of the book? It's not
here. None of it.

Remember the important plot setup with the tiara? Not here.

Remember all the background and memories about Tom Riddle? Not here.

Remember Bill Weasley? Not here.

Remember Bill getting wounded by a certain werewolf? Not here.

Remember Fleur? Not here.

Remember Snape's important parting words to Harry? Not here.

Remember the funeral? Not here.

Remember the touching conversation Harry had with Ginny at the end? Not
here.

Remember Scrimgeour? Not here.

Remember the Burrow burning down? No? Oh, because that IS here.

In short, this film is great if all you took out of the book was the
romance and funny bits. If you're more invested in the bigger story,
you'll be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
As an avid Harry Potter fan who has read the books multiple times and
of course seen the movies repeatedly, I was extremely excited to see
this movie at the midnight showing. Half-Blood Prince is my favorite
book and other than 7, the darkest book in the series.

That being said, I was so disgusted with this movie. Yates & company
literally turned it into Harry Potter comedy hour. I'm not sure how
anyone thought this movie was amazingly dark when the theater was
cracking up laughing the entire time at trite jokes. The only thing
that should have been funny in this entire movie was Lavender & Won
Won's obsession w/ each other.

The movie emphasized the unrequited love/snogging/Ron & Lavender
romance over the major plot line which was learning about Tom Riddle's
background. With the exception of Dumbledore's first meeting w/ Tom &
Tom asking about how to make Horcruxes, all of the background was left
out. That's essentially three quarters of the book omitted.

What was the point of not having Tonks find Harry on the train? How can
you have Tonks call Remus sweetie and not explain all the drama between
them and how they got together? How can you leave out Madam Rosmerta's
involvement? What was the point of the burning of the Burrow scene? The
ending was horrific. It was completely different than the book. So now
Dumbledore is the only one who can apparate on Hogwarts grounds? Malfoy
spends all this time working on this cabinet only to have the Death
Eaters walk through, Bellatrix (who is not present in the book)
encourage him to kill Dumbledore, Snape kills Dumbledore, and they
kindly saunter off the grounds in no hurry. No battle... no fear of
being caught...nothing. What was the point of the cabinet in the movie?
It was completely anti-climatic and they didn't even have the funeral
scene which is a must-have. The worst part ever was the very
end...Harry and Hermione are talking about Dumbledore's death and going
searching for horcruxes and she randomly chimes in that Ron is OK w/
Ginny and Harry. WHAT?! It was so awkward.

And can someone please tell me how they are going to explain Dobby and
Kreacher in the Deathly Hallows movies when they have essentially been
omitted from the subsequent movies after being introduced? I honestly
would like a do-over. They really need to re-shoot this movie and try
again because it was bad. For the real fan, it leaves you cold and
empty, with no tears for Dumbledore because you are so confused, and
wondering why Yates and Co. cared about Lavender being funny more than
the back story of Tom Riddle.
<|_=00=_|>
This segment of HP will disappoint all who read the novel. The Burrow
burns down during x-mas break due to Bellatrix and Fenrir (who is never
described as a werewolf) perhaps for the lack of action at the end of
the movie...the Dursleys are completely cut from the movie, meaning
when Dumbledore picks Harry up for the summer it's at the train station
for some apparent reason...The Ginny/Dean/Harry dichotomy is skewed,
there was no break up between Ginny and Dean and Harry is clearly in
love with her from the start of the movie which eliminates his
confusion on his feelings during the school year...Hermoine prematurely
spills the beans on her feelings for Ron which was only speculation in
the novels...Lavender Brown becomes a obsessive and crazed girlfriend
rather than simply over-affectionate (a reminiscent Unis from She's the
Man)...the battle scene is missing from the end giving Dumbledore's
death an anticlimactic feel making it all the more unemotional and
disappointing...Harry hides under the floor simply holding his wand
looking like a coward while Dumbledore dies, Snape sees him hiding
rather than Harry being frozen under his cloak compliments of
Dumbledore ...There is no funeral or break up with Ginny at the end of
it (there is no relationship between the two either simply a
kiss)...Hagrid is basically deleted from the movie as is
Neville...Pensive trips are deleted and the Horocruxes are never
explained, not even slightly...Luna finds Harry on the Hogwarts Express
rather than Tonks...The Slug Club simply makes a cameo rather than a
proper introduction and explanation...the Inferi look more like
skeletons compared to the white bodies described in the book...I'm sure
more discrepancies are present, however I can only remember so many of
them.

It is absolutely a horrible interpretation of the book and I hope that
they look at all of the mistakes and gaps left for the next movie and
fill them in with more than humor (they are supposed to be in the
middle of an all out war aren't they?) I mean I didn't even feel
emotional when Dumbledore was killed, I was too busy trying to figure
out why Harry was acting like a stunned coward under the floor boards
and not doing something, isn't that his thing...doing seemingly
impossible rescue missions?!?! 

I am utterly disappointed in this installment of HP!!
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS AHEAD

The beginning of the Half Blood Prince starts with the Death Eaters
attacking London and destroying everything in sight. After a great
opening, Harry, Ron, and Hermoine return for their sixth year at
Hogwarts and then, nothing.... We get two slow hours of Ron's potion
making, and teenage angst, with little mention of Tom Riddle's
memories, or Harry and Dumbledore's hunt for his horcruxes. 

The Weasley's house is burned, and then instead of the DD funeral, they
change the ending. Harry just stars under the floor, while Snape kills
Dumbledore. Harry cries, and the students all wave their wands at the
sky to erase the dark marks. Then Harry, Ron and Hermoine leave
Hogwarts. 

Too many things cut out, too little action, too much fluff, and, at the
end, I didn't care whether or not there was a DD funeral. Definitely
the weakest film yet, too many things taken out, and too many silly
things put back in. Too little Tom Riddle also. The movie was just
plain AWFUL!

If David Yates screws up Deathly Hollows half as badly as he screwed up
Order of the Phoenix, and Half Blood Prince, then he will be the one to
blame for taking the Potter series seriously downhill. It was the first
time I have seen an audience actually fall asleep during a Harry Potter
movie and after the ending, only two people clapped. There were a lot
of very disappointed people after the movie ended. I have never heard
the statement "I want my money back" from a Harry Potter movie until
now. Consider me highly disappointed in that this is by far the weakest
film of the series, and that's saying something after the extremely
dull Order of the Phoenix. David Yates is bad luck for the Potter
films.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night I had gone to the midnight showing of the movie. This
morning I wrote a review (below) b/c I wanted to express how
disappointed I was. However, I still had tickets to go see it this
afternoon. I certainly did not want to sit there for another 2 hours
hating it so I had to find a way to like it. I really, really wanted to
like this movie. I love HP, afterall! I decided to try another
approach, to watch the movie without thinking of the book at all. And
I'll be da*ned if it didn't work! I realized that I had spent so much
time picking apart what the movie DID NOT have, that I never allowed
myself to enjoy what it DID have. Once I did that, and accepted that
this movie is merely "based on" the book, I was able to enjoy it!
Suddenly, the love story did not seem to dominate as much as it did on
my first viewing.....Honestly, I never really thought that changing the
way I approached the movie would work, but it did. So, if your a really
big fan of the books and cd's, and you really want to find some way to
enjoy this movie, I suggest you leave all the knowledge you have of the
books at home, sit back, and watch! 

I started reading reviews last week, so I was aware that all the really
good stuff in the book wasn't going to be in the movie. Still I was
excited and stood in line for almost 3 hours to see this movie. When I
left I felt very, very disappointed. I couldn't believe what I watched,
this was a joke, right? Sure that other Harry Potter fans felt the same
way, I started to read the fan reviews. Now I'm wondering....did I miss
something? How is it this movie is getting such rave reviews?? Did
anyone not notice all the plot moments that were changed or left out
completely? 

SPOILERS************************************************ 

I so wanted to see Dumbledore give the Dursley's their due. And how
about Harry and Dumbldore going on the journey to view the Marvolos and
Voldomorts father? And lets not even talk about the best part of the
book, the fight at the castle. I read somewhere that the director did
not want to do the fight because of the fight in book 7. I mean really,
come on, that's probably the lamest excuse I've ever heard. Ya know, I
never even shed a bloody tear when they killed Dumbledore. There was no
emotional work up to it, in my opinion, it was really weak. When I read
the book, I cried for days! Well, maybe that's why I did not during the
movie....I already mourned him :-) I knew their had to be a lot of
things that did not make it in the movie, I just assumed it would be
the teenage love angst. Especially given the action films this movie is
competing against.

But then again, it's getting great reviews, so I think I'm part of the
minority of people who were really, really hoping to get a Harry Potter
movie that would make JK Rowling proud, at least when she cared.

The movie was funny, absolutely. But that's all it was, except for the
last 30 minutes. The last 30 minutes, like the 5th movie, is the best
part, IMO. But, that's not saying much.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh god.

This movie butchered the magic of the book. I seriously wasn't sure if
this was the same movie... Why didn't Dumbledore pick Harry up from the
Dursleys and give them a piece of his mind? Where was the Slug Club?
Why didn't Harry know that Sirius' house was now his? not to mention
Kreacher? It plays a big part in the next movies! Why weren't the
lessons with Dumbledore fully developed? You find out almost NOTHING
about Voldemort's past. Where were Bill and Fleur? Where was the twins'
shop? (Blink and you miss it) Where was Hagrid? Where was Neville?
Where was Quiditch? Where was Tonks' and Lupin's relationship??? What,
am I just supposed to believe that they get married out of nowhere in
the next book? Where was Madam Rosmerta's role? Where were apparition
lessons? How are the trio meant to move from place to place in the next
books? Magic Carpet?!?!?! Where was Dumbledore's funeral? Where was
Harry's and Ginny's relationship and break-up? Where was Scrimgeour?
Where was the big fight at the end? Where was the set up with the
diadem? Where was Fenrir Greyback? WHY for the love of all that's holy,
did Harry just STAND there while Snape murdered Dumbledore before his
very eyes? He was meant to be PETRIFIED (literally)!!! And not only
that, but Snape actually SEES Harry, and does nothing about it. Won't
Harry find it kinda odd that a Death Eater sees him, practically
defenceless, and doesn't do anything about it? Harry is meant to
believe that Snape is a full fledged Death Eater, yet he lets Harry get
off scott free? That is a SERIOUS oversight in the plot of the book!
All these things listed above, the major plot points, weren't there! I
couldn't find them!

What I COULD find however was: The burning down of the burrow...?!?
Dumbledore seeming to only JUST realize that Voldemort used Horcruxes
even though he was meant to have already destroyed one... and not only
that but I also explicitly heard Dumbledore say: "They could be
anything"!!! In the book, he clearly points out that they WOULDN'T be
just anything, that Riddle liked collecting things. In the movie, he
makes out as if it could be any old thing, a shoe, a can, a piece of
paper... (better get searching then Harry, I found the ring, because
"Magic leaves traces", but when I die, you're screwed!!!) Some random
waitress in some random diner... A rock concert tribute to
Dumbledore... A revealing of Hermione's love for Ron... and i
DEFINITELY found Ron's and Lavender's relationship and... sexual
innuendo?? OK, the Ron and Lavender subplot in the book was quite nice
and funny but in the movie, it completely shadowed the ACTUAL story!
they were snogging all over the place! it was impossible to focus on
anything else with them popping up everywhere! It turned the movie into
some sickly rom-com! and then I was shocked to find sexual innuendo!
yup, believe it or not. And i know I wasn't the only one because i
heard laughs and hoots all around the theater. The scene where Ginny
bends down to tie Harry's shoelaces... what is up with that? Hey hang
on a minute, isn't Harry's cloak meant to be a hallow? Good thing Luna
CHARMED it off him then!!!

MASSIVE SPOILERS AHEAD

So, not only did they destroy the capodopera that this movie could have
been, but they also didn't set up the next movie/s. How are Harry, Ron
and Hermione going to start looking for the Horcruxes if they don't
even know what they COULD be? How are the contents of Dumbledore's will
going to be passed along if Scrimgeour doesn't even exist? How is Harry
going to remember that Xenophilius was wearing the symbol of the
Hallows at the wedding if the WEDDING CAN'T EXIST??? And HOW is
Voldemort going to get the wand from Dumbledore's tomb if 1. the TOMB
Isn't THERE and 2. THE WAND Isn't IN THE TOMB ANYWAY!!! How is Harry
meant to remember where the diadem was if he NEVER BLOODY SAW IT!!!!
How are they going to use Grimmauld Place and Kreacher, not to mention
Dobby if there was never even a whisper about what happened to them???

This movie was thoroughly disappointing, and I really think they
should... remake it basically!!! Because not only was THIS movie bad,
but it's set to ruin the next ones as well. The only slim ray of hope
(because hope springs eternal) left for the next movies is that they
include what they missed out in HBP at the start of the first seventh
one. They've got like 5 hours for the rest of the Harry Potter story so
they could fit it in.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been counting down the days since they moved this movie from its
original release date. As the characters have grown older, the story
line gets better, and I was hoping the same would go for the sixth
movie. However, I am still completely confused about the decisions made
for this movie. The movie is two and a half hours of ridiculousness.
Yes, it has fantastic effects, and humor about the raging hormones, but
who cares if the integrity of the story is completely diminished. Let's
make a list of everything they cut out:

1. The introduction of the new Minister of Magic and all that happens
between him and Harry. 

2. Dumbledore coming to the Dursley's house to give them a piece of his
mind. 

3. Harry, Ron and Hermione seeing Draco in the dress shop, and Harry
getting his first idea that Draco had been branded into the Death
Eaters. 

4. The invisibility cloak was absent in almost every important scene
besides the train. 

5. Slughorn's parties (the first of which that was on the train when
Ginny gets her first invite.) 

6. Tonks finding Harry on the train. 

7. Tonks and Lupin's relationship 

8. Several key memories that help Harry find the horcruxes in the 7th
book. Also the awkward arguments between Dumbledore and Harry about
Dumbledore's whereabouts and what happened to his hand. 

9. Hagrid and Thwarp

10. Harry finding out that everything that Sirius owned now belongs to
him (including the house that serves as the hiding place in the 7th
book) 

11. Several of the Quidditch matches and how Harry ends up in trouble
and has to miss the final match. THIS is when Harry and Ginny have
their first kiss when she becomes the seeker for the team and helps the
team win. 

12. Harry and Ginny's relationship 

13.Fleur and Bill's engagement, and are completely absent in the movie. 

13. Madam Rosmerta's role 

14. Moaning Myrtle's role 

15. THE FIGHT IN THE CASTLE!!!! ARE YOU KIDDING ME! The best part of
the book and they cut it out. They deserved to be fired in my opinion.
How could Rowling sign off on them doing this!? 

16. Dumbledore's funeral

17. Harry telling Ginny he could no longer see her...they couldn't have
this scene considering they never showed them to be in a relationship.

I'm sure there is a lot more, but you get the idea. All of these scenes
were cut to add those that never even happened in the book. If you are
an actual fan of the book, be prepared to be disappointed. If you
haven't read the book, I'm sure it'll be great.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see a preview of Half-Blood Prince three days
before opening day. I saw it a second time with my son who is not quite
ten, but who is generally mature for his age and doesn't scare easily.
The two viewings give me the unique advantage of both the adult and the
child perspective on the movie. 

I only recently started counting myself a true Harry Potter fan after
my son introduced me to the movies a couple of years ago. I finished
the last book only three weeks before seeing the movie adaptation of
Half-Blood Prince the first time.

With all the book details very fresh in my mind, I had high
expectations of the movie. And Yates, the production crew and the cast
definitely delivered. The movie impresses on many levels from an
artistic point of view. The stripped landscapes and washed out colors
convey a constant feeling of dread and foreboding. The standard train
trip to Hogwarts was particularly stark, seen against a landscape
scorched by a hot summer sun and dotted with dark pools of water. The
usual lush greenery and joyous train ride are nowhere to be seen.

Personally, I felt the pace was spot-on and that the movie elegantly
made time for all key plot points. But only if you enjoy a plot line
driven by character and emotion. For the younger lot, looking for
frightening wizard duels and attacks by magical creatures, the first
hour and a half of the movie drags on a bit. My son certainly became
fidgety, and didn't appreciate the finesse and sophistication of the
plot and cinematic approach.

Most of the threatening and darkening tone of the movie was also lost
upon him, whereas I reveled in the finer details contributing to a
general sense of ever-encroaching darkness. There are worse things in
life to be afraid of than big hairy spiders. My son missed seeing those
- I was a lot more intrigued by the ominous undercurrents made palpable
by the indomitable trio of David Yates (director), Steve Kloves
(screenplay) and Delbonnel (photography).

Some people feel that the romantic comedy aspects played too large a
role in the movie, but I felt this aspect added some much-needed
lightness and human drama to the movie. Harry (Daniel Radcliffe),
Hermione (Emma Watson) and Ron (Rupert Grint) all find themselves
dealing with the vagaries of young love - from dealing with unwanted
advances to finding love in unexpected places. The romance was aimed
perfectly at the young teen market, and I found myself cringing
ruefully at some of Lavender Brown's love-obsessed stunts and smiling
wistfully at the tenderness between Harry and Ginny. Haven't we all
been there at some stage of our lives?

All in all, Harry Potter is growing up. And so is the market for these
movies. If you've seen all the movies up to now or read all the books,
and your are at an age to appreciate the adult themes and movie
techniques, this movie should fall pitch-perfect on your ear. You are
likely to leave the cinema filled with a heart-wrenching sadness for
innocence lost. 

Purist fans will most certainly complain bitterly about numerous
sub-plots, events and characters that were cut from the movie and the
odd scene that doesn't exist in the book. But Yates' truly gutsy
adaptation really works and brings a depth and clarity to the main
themes of the book that is quite extraordinary. He manages to capture
the lingering lightness of that time before the serious business of
adulthood sets in, alongside the relentless buildup to the final
showdown between The Dark Lord and The Chosen One. And the lack of
closure at the end of the movie is no accident, I believe. Just like
the book, this movie leaves you aching to see how it all ends (never
mind the fact that you already know).

I must also commend the acting. The young leads have all matured in
pace with the maturing content of the books and their acting shows it.
Rupert Grint shines brightly in the somewhat Shakespearean love comedy
he finds himself in, and makes the most of his new-found sport hero
popularity. Emma Watson hits the spot, portraying Hermione's emotional
vulnerability with gentle confidence and softness.

As for Radcliffe, it's easy to miss the evolution he's undergone as
Harry, since there are other actors ostensibly given more to do in this
outing, like Tom Felton and Bonnie Wright, both of whom get the
opportunity to take their characters to a new level. Tom Felton,
especially, does a remarkable job. But Radcliffe's task of playing the
steadfast and courageous, yet not flashy or arrogant hero, remains a
difficult one. Especially on second viewing, it becomes clear how his
understated and controlled performance speaks very much to the type of
man Harry Potter is shaping up to be. A man who is left with a
tremendous responsibility at the end of this movie and takes it up
without flinching. The boy-wizard is no more.

Of the older guard, Alan Rickman's Snape was a consummate performance,
... obviously. And Michael Gambon's portrayal of Dumbledore never felt
more right than in this movie. Jim Broadbent's Slughorn is deliciously
played with just the right mix of off-putting sycophancy and endearing
pathos.

All in all - a triumph all around!
<|_=00=_|>
My favorite part of the novel Harry Potter and the Halfblood Prince,
which was probably my favorite novel in the series, was all of the
subplots. We had the drama behind the Minister Magic and relations with
the Muggle government. We had the quite humorous interactions between
Dumbledore and the Dursleys. We had the whole memory of Voldemort's
family - really quite crucial to the seventh book - and the memories of
Voldemort finding the other Hogwarts founder items to use as Horcruxes.
We had Bill and Fleur's relationship. We had Tonks's depression and
patronus change, which led to Tonks and Remus's relationship. We had
lots of interaction and conflict between Harry's house elves. We have
Snape's constant suspicion of Harry. We have the complications with
Madame Rosmerta. And we had so much in the end - Harry being trapped
under the Invisibility Cloak during Dumbledore's death, an entire
battle at Hogwarts, and Dumbledore's elaborate and meaningful funeral.

All of that was completely and entirely omitted from the movie.

What we do have is a weak plot involving an old Potions textbook that
is featured about two times before Harry's friends convince him to do
away with the book. Snape never punishes Harry, only reveals his
identity in a brief scene at the end. The Order of the Phoenix is not
mentioned at all throughout the entire movie, and neither is Grimmauld.
We have a nearly sickening amount of teenage hormonal relationships -
while some moments like harry comforting Hermione and Ron whispering
Hermione's name in the hospital wing were well done, the growing
relationship between Ginny and Harry was awkwardly portrayed.
Additionally, they cut out the entire end scene - battle and all. One
would think that a battle scene would attract even more moviegoers to
the film, and the battle provided filmmakers a chance to show minor
characters who weren't heavily featured. No, the movie ends with a weak
scene showing the three main characters in a tower talking about next
year. The same amount of foreshadowing could have been done within
canon - Harry telling Ginny that they couldn't see each other anymore
at Dumbeldore's funeral. But that certainly didn't happen.

Oh, and do you remember the Burrow burning down? No? Well, it happens.
It's a great scene, actually, very well done, but not remotely canon.
The Burrow is integral to the plot of the seventh book. Let's see how
they pull that one off.

Actually, they seem to have been pretty obsessed with fire in this
film. Hagrid's hut burns down as well.

The cinematography, though, was excellent. One of my favorite scenes
showed Harry walking up a staircase and Draco walking up a parallel
staircase in the background. The lighting is effective, the various
focus effects are absolutely magnificent, and the soundtrack, as
always, is excellent. The film is a visual pleasure - perhaps lacking
in action, but it is one of those films that one could watch several
times extracting details from the masterful sets.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a real shame that I could never give a film featuring Harry Potter
the status of a perfect film. Each tale relies so heavily on those that
came before or after that one can never be a truly all-encompassing
work. Sure, the three-act structure can be utilized, but without the
background info, nor the knowledge that more will be coming, watching a
middle installment alone will leave you confused and disorientated. The
reason I bring this up is the fact that Harry Potter and the Half-Blood
Prince is good enough to warrant the praise and to put the idea in my
head about whether to call it a masterpiece. The tone is perfect, the
laughs are many, the darkness is charcoal blackhow could this be the
same director as the abysmalin comparison to the rest of the
seriesOrder of the Phoenix, David Yates? Two words  Bruno Delbonnel.

Who is Delbonnel you may ask? Well, he is the brilliant cinematographer
behind the camera. I may have blamed the failures of the fifth film on
its screenplay as Steve Kloves was glaringly absent, (he being the
writer of each other film, including this new one), but a film is a
team effort. Therefore I guess maybe I shouldn't put all the accolades
on one man now; I just feel absolutely compelled to do so because so
many moments linger in my mind due to the beauty of their composition
and use of their environments to stay interesting and exciting at all
times. Visually, you cannot be bored. It just goes to show that it is
never the director alone, but also the team he or she brings along. I
like Yates and was surprised at how much I disliked his first foray in
the Potter universe, granted, I felt the book itself was sub-par at
best. Thankfully, he did not disappoint with his second of three, (make
that four as book seven goes to a two-part finale), because, as it was
with the novels, Half-Blood Prince is by far the best of the
seriesuntil Deathly Hallows of course. And adding the pedigree of a
guy like Delbonnel, with films such as Across the Universe, A Very Long
Engagement, and Amelie in his back pocketall stunning works of
artonly makes his job easier.

I can't get over the use of close-ups throughout, or the multiple
instances of framing used to hide something on screen. Oftentimes, the
camera pans or cuts to reveal something in the fringes, to highlight
the focal point when it's not centrally located, or literally move our
eyes to exactly where the filmmakers want them to be. The blocking is
superb with some scenes blurring the edges and keeping only our main
object of interest in focus, timing and positioning executed with
aplomb. And did I mention the close-ups? (Yes, I know I did.) One
sequence, with Harry and Ginny running through a field of tall grass
after intruding Death Eaters, is shot with a high speed pan to keep the
characters crisp as the foliage darts and blurs in their wake. I'd be
remiss not to mention the special effects as well, especially when
dealing with the black smoke trails from Voldemort's flying goons as
well as the wispy pensieve. Whether completely computer generated or
practical dye clouds in water, the effect is pitch perfect, even
dissolving each memory in sections, leaving important pieces, like
young Tom Riddle, to be lingered on just a second longer than the rest.

As for the leads, Daniel Radcliffe and Emma Watson are solid as usual,
(Radcliffe showing some solid comedic chops after taking luck elixir),
and Rupert Grint's Ron Weasley gets some room to break free. But it is
the supporting roles that deserve notice. Helena Bonham Carter will
scare children, so kudos to her, and Michael Gambon's Dumbledore will
win even more hearts as his leader finally allows Potter into the inner
circle of the plan to rid the world of Voldemort, it now being a circle
of two. It is newcomer Jim Broadbent, however, as Professor Slughorn
who steals the show. Broadbent is known for his many comical
expressions and his rubber face is utilized to great effect here. A
blowhard and man with many "friends", his jubilant smile and need to
collect powerful and famous wizards for his Slug Club are ever-present,
bringing some levity as well as effectively hiding the dark secret that
lies beneath.

Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince succeeds in the details. It is
an exercise in minimalism and showing only what is necessary to the
plot. Condensing the novel better than ever done before, Kloves has
given Yates the tools to make a film and not just a visual
representation of the words. What had previously been done best by
Azkaban's Alfonso Cuaron, this one works better at retaining more
subplots and not stripping it quite so bare. Subtle hints are planted
so no longwinded exposition is needed to make us, as an audience, feel
stupid and lectured to. Instead Yates and crew allow us to show our
intelligence and ability to use our eyes and memories to piece things
together, making the experience more enjoyable as we believe we are
solving the mysteries and not the director who is skillfully guiding us
through. I'd say it couldn't get better than this, but my confidence in
Yates has been renewed and my hopes that Deathly Hallows is treated
with respect is at one hundred percent, so who knows what the future
has to offer?
