
Role Models - Two energy drink spokesmen, Wheeler and Danny (Seann
William Scott and Paul Rudd) get in trouble with the law after Danny
has a break-up with his girlfriend (Elizabeth Banks who is in
everything these days). They are given the choice of jail or community
service with troubled kids, and choose the latter. Danny is given a boy
Augie (Christopher Mintz-Plasse of Superbad) who wears a cape and is
into role-playing games. Wheeler is given a foul mouthed terror of a
boy (Bobb'e J. Thompson).

Paul Rudd and Seann William Scott have good chemistry. Rudd has dry
sarcasm to spare and Scott plays a sex-addled numbskull. Their
interactions with the two talented young boys are funny and
occasionally sweet. Bobb'e J. Thompson is one of the better child
actors of his age and makes the nightmare of every teacher a cool often
wickedly funny little character. Christopher Mintz-Plasse, or
"McLovin'" as he's known throughout America, plays essentially the same
character but sweeter and shy and, funny enough, less creepy. So yeah,
he's pretty firmly typecast as "dork" at this point. But he's a very
palatable dork and may help raise the image of dorks everywhere above
the status of subhuman. I heard many girls in the audience very
sensitive to his plight in the audience.

A few parts of the plot are contrived. But aside from a few film snobs,
who goes to see a comedy for its original plot? The important thing is
the laughs, and this is where the film delivers. Directed by David
Wain, maker of The Ten (funny cult film), and written by Wain and Paul
Rudd, this film is hilarious. The laughs were frequent and hearty. One
of the films defining elements is the showcasing of role-playing games
such as Dungeons&Dragons (here it is known as L.A.I.R.E). Role Models
takes a surprisingly even handed look at it. It pokes fun, of course
(so easy). But there is also respect ingrained. The result is a case of
"so lame it's awesome" where the absurdity of D&D is given the gravitas
of your average Hollywood blockbuster. It's hilarious, and does look
terribly fun.

And it's here that the film makes it's stand. Do what makes you happy,
no matter what your parents or anyone else tells you. It's been said in
so many films that the message seems false at this point. But in Role
Model's extreme example of people doing what makes them happy, it
really does ring true. You got to give a bunch of people playing with
foam swords in the forest their due. They're doing what makes them
happy. Can you say the same for yourself? I can't right now.

This was a delightful film. It may be a bad year for movies, but it's a
damn fine one for comedy. A-
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the trailer for Role Models, I thought it looked like a
funny movie, but I wasn't expecting much, I was thinking they might
have just shown the great parts in the trailer and that would be it.
But I took the opportunity and saw Role Models the other day and I have
to say this is completely opposite from what I was expecting, first off
I was worried that there was going to be a lot of gross humor and the
kids might be more annoying than funny, but it turn out that this was
one of the funniest movies I have seen this year. I just couldn't stop
laughing throughout this film, who knew that Sean William Scott could
actually be really funny? I know there are a lot of Stiffler fans that
will hate that sentence, but I don't remember a time that I laughed so
hard at his character. He and Paul Rudd both worked so well together
and were terrific on screen, this was the last duo on Earth that I
expected such great laughs from.

Wheeler and Danny both work for an energy drink company, but after a
very hard day for Danny he crashes their company truck on school
property, but his ex-girlfriend, Beth, who is a lawyer is able to get
them just 150 hours community service with two kids, one is a total
dungeons and dragons nerd and the other is just a pain in the butt. You
know how the story goes, Danny learns how to be happy and Wheeler
finally grows up into a more father figure role.

Now the story is something we have seen a million times before, but
it's still a great comedy. Jane Lynch who is becoming one of my
favorite comedic actresses, you've also seen her in 40 year old virgin,
she is just absolutely hilarious in this movie and has all the best
lines "You know what I ate for breakfast? Cocaine. You know what I ate
for lunch? Cocaine..." she is such a great and fun actress to watch on
screen. I really loved Role Models, it turned out to be a great comedy
and was an absolute blast to watch. I highly recommend if you get the
chance to see it, take it, it's a guaranteed laugh.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at a free screening last night, and by the time the
movie was over, I was hoarse because I laughed so much. And these
weren't just little laughs, but big guffaws. The whole audience was
laughing through the whole movie. The previews are funny, but this is
one instance where they don't show the only funny parts of the movie in
the previews. Paul Rudd is a great actor, in general, and he really
shines in this movie. The movie is hysterical, raunchy, and touching.
Kudos to Rudd, Wain, and Merino. I really hope that this movie gains a
lot of ground through the great buzz it is currently getting. It
deserves that buzz.
<|_=00=_|>
Danny is in a rut with his life and hates his job as a promoter of a
sugar/caffeine energy drink called minotaur, while his co-worker,
Wheeler, loves it. However after being dumped by his girlfriend, Danny
crashes his minotaur truck into a school monument and he and Wheeler
face the prospect of 30 days in jail or 150 hours of community service
doing big-brother type work with disadvantaged youngsters. While
Wheeler is landed with Ronny an obnoxious little 10 year old, Danny is
landed with a dungeons and dragon playing geek called Augie. While
neither of them hit it off with the kids at first they all eventually
become friends and learn a lot of life lessons. Ahhhh! 

Now, you might think that from this semi-sarcastic tone I hated it, but
oh contraire, far from. I admit I had low expectations of this film
that were completely smashed by the scatter-gun humour of the film. The
dialogue is funny and the sarcasm bitingly funny at times, as the top
line suggests. Paul Rudd is perfect as the miserable Danny and Sean
William Scott is perfectly cast as the free-living, but unfortunate
Wheeler.

The film manages to tread that fine line between clich√© ridden schmaltz
(Like 27 dresses) and refreshingly enjoyable comedies (Like Something
About Mary) with a deft touch, the direction is sure footed and manages
to deliver a surprise ending that I would never have guessed from how
it began.

A laugh out loud comedy that exceeds expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this tonight at an advance screening. It was very funny, and
warm hearted. I suppose the humor is often crude, but, hey. The natural
dialog reminded me of Superbad and 40 Year Old Virgin. Paul Rudd has
developed a deadpan style of improvisational humor that seems to work
better and better the more movies he makes. Christopher Mintz-Plasse
from Superbad and Robb'e J. Johnson are excellent as the kids. Jane
Lynch brings her signature brand of demented free association to the
role of the charity-addicted leader of a kids charity. If you liked
Superbad, Pineapple Express and 40 Year Old Virgin, go! If you didn't;
Dude, like, don't!
<|_=00=_|>
For every twenty filthy disgusting R-rated comedy gems, there's one
that stands out because of its heavy dosage of heart. Role Models isn't
the sort of movie you'd expect to be the exception, but nonetheless
delivers quality film-making, quality writing and acting, and plenty of
life-lessons as well as raunchy humor to keep you laughing throughout.
Paul Rudd's first script is full of his dry, sarcastic, witty brand of
humor; and then we have the hilarious Seann William Scott in the
sidekick role. Underneath the layers of profanity, sex jokes, cleavage
lies life values and a hidden layer of sentimentality that seeps its
way through the second and third acts. The transition is very slow and
gradually actually improves the film as it rolls on.

Role Models follows two slackers, a bitter one (Rudd) and a rowdy,
horny freebird (William Scott) being forced to community service after
a mishap outside a school. For their community service, they have to
enroll in a big brother-like program and take care of a kid for 150
hours. The task becomes hard because one of them is a major fan of the
fantasy, medieval role-playing lifestyle, and the other is a
foul-mouthed, misbehaving youngling with no respect towards adults or
people in general. As they spend more time together however, they
realize they have a lot more in common than previously assumed; and
suddenly start changing each other's habits for the better.

The screenplay is helmed by four minds, with Paul Rudd providing his
personal touch for the first time in his career. The payoff is
magnificent, as the plot never dwells into formulaic, and most of the
humor hits rather than misses. Unlike most modern rated-R comedies,
some of the jokes are very low and come quickly, therefore passing by
the viewer without getting a reaction. It takes some quick wit to nab
the swiftly-delivered one-liners. Paul Rudd is perfectly cast as the
lead character Danny, and performs with an overwhelming aura of
selfishness, sarcasm, and subtle hostility. Seann William Scott is at
his best when being second banana (See: American Pie, The Rundown) and
is also perfectly cast as the wild, immature co-worker of Danny. Last
but not least we must applaud Christopher Mintz-Plasse as he delivers
another grand geeky performance that mixes humor with heart.

What separates incredible rated-R comedies like The 40-Year-Old Virgin
and There's Something About Mary from stinkers like Scary Movie 2,
Superbad, and My Best Friend's Girl is how much raunchy material is
presented and its timing. In the first two films mentioned, there's
squeamish and adult humor sprinkled throughout, but it's never overdone
or overkilled. Role Models has a lot of profanity, a bit of sex, and a
bit of crudeness attached; but these elements are never one-hundred
percent focused on. Director David Wain knows how to keep the film from
being unbearably crude and unwatchable by proving other ways to deliver
laughs: whether it is with physical humor, snappy comebacks, and
hilarious scenarios. The best bits are when Danny and Wheeler are
having trouble adjusting to the behaviors of their "little brothers."

But then the movie dwells into deeper territory by providing insight
into the reason why the little brothers are such a hassle to handle;
and why these kids can potentially help our two main characters. Themes
about life, love, family, and understanding the next individual are all
too present. Nobody's bizarre and unique mannerisms are ever left
unexplained. By the end you've gotten to know the characters so well,
you can figure out their next moves. It's a sort of predictability
that's actually refreshing. Of course, then we are all thrown off by
the climax, which stages one of the funniest moments in 2008 cinema.
The epic finale is long, but ludicrous, and wraps up the story very
nicely.

Bottom Line: It usually isn't my nature to give a film with dozens of
cleavage jokes a high score (especially with my hate affair with Dane
Cook), but Role Models is surprisingly cute, surprisingly sweet, and
delightfully hilarious and touching. You'll care for everyone by the
third act, and will remain entertained until the very end. Unlike the
average adult comedy, this one comes with a lot of values and adorable
little moments that makes this worth watching more than once. Paul Rudd
is a much underrated actor and entertainer, as we see him deliver on
his first main comedic role. Here's to hoping we'll see much more of
him in the near future. In the meantime, you'll do yourself some good
by watching this gem.

"No, venti is twenty. Large is large. In fact, tall is large and grande
is Spanish for large. Venti is the only one that doesn't mean large.
It's also the only one that's Italian. Congratulations, you're stupid
in three languages."
<|_=00=_|>
As a comedy this movie delivers. I review movies for my part time job
and after seeing 10+ movies a week, you get pretty numb to most of the
stuff out there. This is one of the few comedies I've laughed out loud
at in a while. There are lots of funny scenes throughout that kept me
laughing the entire movie, instead of most comedies that just have lots
of hit and miss scenes. This is up there Adam McKay's stuff, and better
than most Happy Madison films.

Many people have given this movie a bad review/rating based on its lack
of story. Um sorry to break the news to you, but comedies are about one
thing - humor. The story is only a background element to make a comedy,
same as every other comedy out there. You rate a drama based on its
story, not a comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are having a bad day,or bad week. If you are looking for a film
that will make you laugh and forget about your troubles. I don't think
Role Models is that movie for you.

The film centers around Danny(Paul Rudd) and Wheeler(Seann William
Scott) Two juice promoters, who go to schools promoting the product,
telling kids to stay off drugs, and more juice. But Danny is having the
worst week ever, and crashes his company car, with Wheeler in the seat
next to him. His soon to be ex girlfriend Beth(Elizabeth Banks) who is
a lawyer, manages to avoid getting them jail time, by doing hours of
community service, volunteering at a big brother place called Sturdy
Wings led by Gayle(Jane Lynch). Wheeler is assigned to Ronnie(Bobb'e J
Thompson) who is 10 years old, and has a foul mouth like he's Chris
Rock. Danny is assigned to Augie(McLovins, Christopher Mintz-Plasse)
who likes to dress like a knight, and fight like he is in medieval
times. But will this be good for Danny and Wheeler, or will they be
better off in jail?

Okay I'm not gonna beat around the bush, this movie was very unpleasant
in many ways. Namely the Ronnie character, hearing those bad words
coming out of a kid that young, was very shocking. If he was a little
bit older, it would not have mater'd as much. I mean what where his
parents thinking, when they sign'd him on to this. Elizabeth Banks
character is so unwatchable, maybe I was supposed to feel bad for her
character, but I felt nothing, because she is annoyingly predictably
portrayed as a female who would be played in these types of comedies.
And Jane Lynch, who's the worst of the worst. She delivers the most
overacting performance ever. Playing a former drug addict, who acts
like she still is on drugs. Listening to her give all that annoying
dialog, made me want to throw my head up against the wall. Seann
William Scott once again playing another Stifler like character, he
should really try to separate himself, and this film won't do it. And
the more Scott tries to hard to be funny, is what keeps him from being
funny.

Now Paul Rudd on the other hand, I'm gonna separate from the others in
the film, cause he manages to deliver a solid performance, although he
does not get higher laughs, but he is the most interesting character
from the rest. Cause Rudd does not overact, and does not try so hard.
The scenes with him and Mintz-Plasse are watchable. But the rest of the
film is so stupid, it picks up at times. But it becomes so predictable
and uninteresting. It is a reminder that these types of comedies try
nothing new, there all the same, they take no chances. Role Models is
an example of that.
<|_=00=_|>
The capsule summary of "Role Models" on Xfinity TV is, "Forced to join
a mentorship program, two irresponsible men (Seann William Scott, Paul
Rudd) must help a pair of impressionable boys navigate the troubled
waters of youth." That description sounds like a smarmy physical comedy
derivative with cheap scatological bits. Except that Xfinity gave it a
rating of 3 out of 4 stars, so I decided to take a look at it.

To my pleasure, the film turned out to be a much more sophisticated
movie. The two men, who are allowed to do community service instead of
jail, are assigned to a big brother type program. The more intellectual
of the two men, Danny, who is disillusioned with the world, is assigned
to an immature teen who doesn't fit in with his peers; instead he
devotes himself to participation in an on-going Dungeons and Dragons
type reenactment played by a mixed group of adults and children who and
his job. Wheeler, a care-free womanizer, is assigned a tough young
foul-mouthed kid with whom no previous volunteer had lasted more than
one day. The story shows the changes the interactions of the two
"Littles" and their "Bigs"have on each other. There are a number of
cheap double entendre sexual references, but they don't diminish the
film too much.
<|_=00=_|>
Move over Superbad and Knocked Up. The guys from The State, The Ten,
and Wet Hot American Summer have outdone themselves tenfold. I saw a
preview screening a little less than a month ago, going in with no
expectations. Paul Rudd's never written a movie before, but I enjoy Ken
Marino and David Wain's work so I knew it would at least be amusing.
Wow was I wrong. From start to finish, every line was perfectly written
with perfect delivery from Rudd and company.

If this movie isn't a hard R, it's going to suck big time. The movie's
raunchiness is its best quality, and I can't wait to see it a couple
more times on opening weekend.

Extremely recommended for everybody.
