
Do you like chocolate? Do you know that moment, even before you put it
in your mouth? You can imagine that taste. You can feel that rich
sweetness on your tongue, the smoothness going around your mouth . . .

The Holiday is a romantic comedy. You know what that means. And if you
don't like romantic comedies, don't go and see it. If you do, you will
know what to expect. The mushy feelings creeping up on you. All those
'If Only . . .' emotions telling you there is a lovely place somewhere
in which people fall in love and everything works out kinda perfect. If
only for a while . . . say, for the holiday period over Christmas and
New Year . . . or for the 138 minutes which this film lasts.

Two Women on the Verge of Emotional Breakdown do holiday house swap.
They escape lovelorn predicaments and find 'unexpected' love on their
opposite sides of the Atlantic. Cue picturesque English country house
just the way Americans imagine it (with sheep out the back). Cue
enormous L.A. mansion with swimming pool (just the way Brits imagine
it).

Cameron Diaz is Amanda, owner of a movie-trailers editing firm. Since
she's played the same comedy character several times, there are few
surprises; but an excellent script, written directly for her and the
other three leading stars, projects it rather better than average. Kate
Winslet as Iris, a successful writer on The Telegraph, is more nuanced:
an actor with considerable range, we cannot but help admire the way she
does 'pathetic girl' rather beautifully in a role that she could manage
with one hand counting the ways to have fun and get paid
simultaneously.

Formulaic it is (wonderful women with scoundrelly fellas eventually get
The Real Men They Deserve - meeting puppy dogs, children, and falling
snowflakes on the way of course). But, well-done within a narrow genre,
it still stands out. No-brainers like this tend to have dumb scripts
and dumber acting, but The Holiday contains warm, natural dialogue and
heartfelt chemistry. If this was the 40's, you'd want Jude Law and
Cameron Diaz to get married off-screen afterwards. Charismatic and
entertaining, unless you find Diaz, Law or Winslet personally
irritating (some people do), they are a joy to watch, filling their
parts with love and light. Excellent production values keep the rather
trite story flowing. Everything is picture-perfect, long lenses
flattering the features of the already handsome stars, filters and
soft-focuses carefully delineating the mood.

There is an overall honesty to the performances. "You look like my
Barbie!" delights a four-year-old excitedly to Diaz. Ironic? But said
with so much affection it is self-deprecating rather than cutting. Jack
Black struggles to get out of his music-and-silly-faces typecasting but
just manages to look the part for an intellectual Iris who is not
attracted to skin-deep. Jude Law, on the other hand, could be an advert
for men's skin cream, and too rounded a character to be mere pin-up
material.

With more Christmas songs than you can shake a piece of tinsel at, The
Holiday is a warm, snuggly romance to lose yourself in before coming
firmly back down to planet earth. It might be shallow, but it's
seasonal entertainment - and a Swiss chocolate of romantic comedies.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are expecting an epic cinematic masterpiece, then "The Holiday"
is not for you. However, if you are looking for a light, entertaining
movie, I would definitely recommend this film. While the previews were
intriguing, I was thrilled to find that not every plot element was
revealed before I even entered the theater. I completely enjoyed Kate
Winslet as hopelessly devoted Iris. She was neurotic, a bit spineless,
and absolutely winning. Although I do wish that her story had been
developed more thoroughly. I felt a bit like her relationship was
rushed through and the film spent a majority of the time focusing on
Amanda (Diaz), Graham (Law), and their developing relationship. Despite
the fact that I am not a huge Cameron Diaz or Jude Law fan, I was
pleasantly surprised with their part of the story! Jack Black kept his
character to an energetic hum rather than an explosion of crazy antics.
You've just got to love that eyebrow! The scenery was beautiful! The
supporting cast was hugely entertaining. I laughed out loud. The ending
is fairly predictable. This is a romantic comedy after all. However,
"The Holiday" is a great film for those of us who would like to suspend
reality for a while and just enjoy. Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed. I cried. I awed. My jaw even dropped a couple of times. This
movie surpassed all of my original expectations. At almost two and a
half hours, I thought it might drag on, but I never felt like it was
really that long. This movie is not only about heartbreak and heart
ache, it's about finding yourself and appreciating the true things in
life. I felt that Kate and Cameron did a wonderful job. Their
characters come from two very different worlds yet they both seek the
same thing...escape. They encounter so much more upon arriving at their
destinations, and ultimately end up finding the completely unexpected.
Jude is a star charmer as always, and Jack, well, he's Jack. Seeing
this movie should be on everyone's holiday "to-do" lists, and I can
guarantee it will be in my DVD collection once it is released. Nancy
Meyers hit a home run with this one and it is sure to bring everyone a
nice large dose of holiday spirit.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a really good, light hearted movie, with GREAT
characterization. There are points where the movie is a little slow,
but not slow enough to loose your interest.

All of the characters are wonderfully developed especially Jude
Laws-the under-story of Jude's character adds an extra dimension to his
character and really makes you love him all the more.

Kate Winslet's character is another that was well worked out. She helps
out this little old man . . . and the character development between her
and this older gentleman is wonderful . . . it adds so much to her
character, makes her more human, more real, someone very likable and
someone you want to end up with a good ending.

Jack Black's character was sweet, not corny . . . and you end up liking
him very much. He was not a goober like he usually is in his movies.

Over all, it was a wonderfully character driven movie, that was
enjoyable and had you leaving the theater feeling good. I recommend it
highly!
<|_=00=_|>
Well yes, a 2006 romantic comedy that delivers what it promises. Mostly
due to the disarming likability of the four leads plus Eli Wallach. Not
for cynics, naturally, but very few things are and what the hell I
laughed I was moved and I surprised myself all the way through. I came
out of the theater smiling from ear to ear. Listen, that's not small
feast in a world that seems too self conscious to be cute, even smartly
cute like in this case. Kate Winslet can't help but being truthful so,
there you go, you identify with her Rufus Sewell situation rooting for
her - and I'm a guy! Cameron Diaz is, how can I put it? Yes adorable. A
scatterbrain with a brain. Jude Law is another than I don't remember
when was the last time he was this charming and Jack Black manages to
keep it real and I was taken for a ride, going along, falling happily
in Nancy Meyer's lovely trap. Well done!
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Two beautiful women, Amanda Woods (Cameron Diaz) and Iris
Simpkins (Kate Winslet) both find themselves at the end of failed
relationships just before Christmas. Amanda decides to take a two week
vacation and surfs the internet. She meets Iris online, and they agree
to swap their homes for the holidays. Amanda lives in Los Angles and
Iris lives in the countryside of Surrey, England. Even though they now
have a change of scenery and want no contact with men, they are both
still depressed and lonely. But things are about to change when Iris'
brother Graham (Jude Law) drops by Iris' house and meets Amanda. On the
other side of the world, Iris meets Miles (Jack Black) a film composer.
Romance is in the air and sparks are about to fly.

(My Comment) If you want to see a romantic comedy with real chemistry,
especially between Cameron Diaz and Jude Law this is one chick flick
you must see. This movie is a good date movie that is actually
entertaining and sweet. You are actually seeing two love stories
instead of one. There is a great subplot of the friendship between Kate
Winslet and Eli Wallach's character that will touch your heart.
Actually, I enjoyed that part of the movie the best. Overall, the movie
was enjoyable to watch with touching and funny scenes throughout the
movie. The ending is predictable, but what do you expect, it is a
romantic comedy. You will leave the movie feeling good, and isn't that
what movies are all about. (Columbia Pictures, Run time 2:18, Rated
PG-13)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
The Holiday is about two women who each have recently had problems with
the men in their lives. Amanda lives in California and Iris lives in
England. Neither of these women have ever met before, but they both
want to escape for the holidays, so they talk online and decide to swap
houses and automobiles for two weeks, so in other words Amanda would be
staying at Iris's house in England and Iris would be staying at
Amanda's house in California. Once they both reach their destinations
they are both pretty bitter about men, but each of them soon meets
different men in their lives who mean a lot to them and may make their
holiday something to remember. The Holiday has good direction, a good
script, good performances by the entire cast and good original music.
At first I wasn't really getting into this film and thought it would be
a film that would probably appeal more to a woman than to me. Also the
Amanda character played by Cameron Diaz annoyed me at first and I found
her kind of artificial and ego centric. However as the film played on I
found myself really liking this film. The characters grew on me and I
found quite a bit to like about this movie. The chemistry between all
the different characters works very well and their parts are all quite
well written and the actors playing them each do a good job. I found
that the film also developed and showed a lot about these characters
which I enjoyed because the more I got to know about them the more I
liked them and they were able to grow on me more. Each character in
this film brings something unique to the table by being different and
by really making this film more interesting than perhaps it sounds. The
really rewarding thing about this film is how well the characters work
with one another and that they are well written and well acted. This
film is a romantic comedy and for the most part a lot of romantic
comedies do not do a whole lot for me because I find them silly and
more for the female viewer than the male viewer, but this movie offers
a lot of humour, heart and is just generally a pleasant feel good film
that I think both male and female viewers will enjoy. One of the better
films of the year and one of the better romantic comedies of recent
years as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I have to confess I was dreading seeing this film, but actually I
loved it.

The story is quite fantastical. But once you can go along with the
ridiculous plot, it is very funny and totally charming. It's a bit like
eating liquid chocolate, and somehow manages to last for 2 hours and 10
minutes without you feeling sick.

At the start of the film, the acting is very hammy, but this removes
your desire for believability enough to carry the film. Cameron Diaz
and Jude Law look absolutely lovely. Kate Winslett really pulls off her
comedic role brilliantly. The are some beautiful touching moments about
Hollywood history and a couple of famous faces appear in cameo roles.
The English countryside is lovely. Lots of laughter and tears in the
audience.

The nutritional value of chocolate is limited. This film will uplift
you though if nothing else. Excellent Christmas movie (from a bloke!).
<|_=00=_|>
Iris (Kate Winslett), attractive, if somewhat dowdy, young English
journalist (she works for that citadel of fogeyism, the "Daily
Telegraph"), on the rebound from an affair with the shiftless Jasper
(Rufus Sewell), one of the paper's columnists, decides she needs a
Christmas holiday. She goes on-line and has soon swapped her
Christmas-card pretty, but cramped, Surrey cottage with a mansion in
Bel  Air owned by Amanda (Cameron Dias), the ebullient head of a
company that makes movie trailers, who has just thrown out her latest
useless partner. The girls swap places and in no time Amanda is
romancing Iris's dishy brother Graham (Jude Law). Meanwhile in
Hollywood Iris is getting to know Miles (Jack Black), a workmate of
Amanda's, and a 90 year old neighbour, Arthur (Eli Wallach) who happens
to be one of Hollywood's forgotten great writers.

One can of course dismiss this sort of stuff as glossy fairy floss
because basically, despite all the money and talent expended in making
it, that is what it is - "Love, Improbable." This film is rather long
for its genre, over two hours, and it does drag a bit, as if the
scriptwriters couldn't decide how to end it. However it must be
admitted that Kate Winslett and Jude Law are always interesting to
watch on screen and Cameron Diaz has a nice line in parodying some of
her earlier performances. Rufus Sewell shows he can out-act Hugh Grant
any day (not hard I guess). Jack Black on the other hand seemed
strangely out of place as Ms W's love interest  romantic comedy
doesn't seem to be his forte, he's more of your gross-out guy. It was
nice though to see Eli Wallach, a great Hollywood tough guy of old, who
at 90 seems to have the market for nice old buffers sewn up, as the
neighbour.

Perhaps I am setting my standard too high, but compared to "Four
Weddings and a Funeral", "Notting Hill", "Bedrooms and Hallways" and
even "Love, Actually", this was a pile of mush, far too sweet and
sticky and nice. Good comedy needs a certain bite, a reality bite, a
bit of astringency, whereas what we are given here is pure fairyland
escapism. Writer/Director Nancy Myers has a record of light
entertaining stuff ("The Parent Trap", "Father of the Bride") and she
certainly is not trying to extend her range here.
<|_=00=_|>
Although this isn't my typical pick on movies I'd love to see, I have
to say I enjoyed screening this one. The run time is a bit long, and
the movie gets a bit soft in the middle, but considering you're
actually watching two love stories (as opposed to one), I guess the run
time is justified. It still seemed a bit forced to get the story told
in a descent amount of time (still over two hours). The performances
were moderate to good, with exception of Jude Law as Graham, who was
wonderful.

If you're tired of holiday films that are so stacked with so much
Christmas cheer that it makes you sick, this is the perfect
alternative. Light enough for some serious laughs, and with enough
drama to keep it interesting to audiences, this one's a good date
movie. Leave the kids with a sitter. There are a few adult themes that
could be uncomfortable to try to explain to a younger one.
