
I graduated from the Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD in 1988. I went to
see the movie with my wife, an ex Navy Nurse, last weekend. We were
eager to see the familiar grounds of the Academy and see an accurate
depiction of the real Midshipman experience. 

We're still waiting.

Okay, by now you've read plenty of comments regarding the plot
(predictable), the acting (cardboard) etc. As a remake of the whole
"Officer and a Gentleman" theme, it's not too bad. The whole poor boy
with an attitude bucking the system thing has been done.

If you are planning to see the movie hoping it's a realistic depiction
of life at the Naval Academy, or in the military in general-don't
bother. They actually got a few things surprisingly right, and many
more things wrong. Therefore, I thought I'd give a little insider's
look at the nit-picky details.

What they got right: The uniforms, by and large. It's not likely that
every single Mid would have scored Expert on their rifle and pistol
qualifications- but they all seem to have earned those ribbons. BTW-
Jordanna Brewster's character was a Second Class Midshipman- a Junior.
Tyrese was, as he said, a Senior.

The rooms- pretty close. Actually, the showers are in the rooms.

The bedspreads- Strange, but true. Little details like the Plebe
sleeping on top of his covers so he won't have to remake the rack.

The Plebe Indoctrination- The apparently silly memorized responses to
questions like "How's the Cow?" (-She walks, she talks, she's full of
chalk. The lacteal fluid extracted from the female of the bovine
species is prolific to the Nth degree.) It's designed to train you to
be able to rapidly and accurately memorize complex information strings.
Obviously it still works- I learned it 22 years ago and still know it
verbatim. Marching off demerits- yep, done it. The chowcalls- yelling
the menu in the passageway. Cannonballs with Hard Sauce! Yum! 

Expulsion for an Honor Offense- Apparently someone caught lying today
would be put on Honor Probation. Twenty years ago, anyone violating the
Honor Code (not concept) was separated. 

Boxing- All MALE midshipmen were required to take two semesters of
boxing- your Plebe and Youngster (sophomore) years. The boxing coach
was excellent. He fit the part very well. There was an open tournament
each year, but it's held in a big field house, not a dark and dusty
courtroom set. It's really not that big a deal to most mids.

Jumpers- People have committed suicide by jumping from windows in
Bancroft Hall- the residence hall.

What They Got Wrong: The Academy- They found some period buildings in
Philly with lots of columns, etc. The locations in no way captured the
feel of the Academy or the city. Annapolis is a beautiful tourist city
(and the state capital) on the Chesapeake Bay. The nearest shipyard
would be in Baltimore- and they don't build warships there.

The Military Discipline- Plebes don't saunter down the P-way (hall)
they march or run. Nobody goes outside in uniform without a cover
(hat). Most of Huard's responses to his superiors would have gotten him
fried. Conversations are not casual, and they're usually one way.

Hazing- Buckets of water at extend arms? Maybe (We used rifles). Racist
or sexist remarks wouldn't be tolerated. Cole's little sycophantic
buddy was an insult to real Midshipmen.

The boxing- again, not that important. Females don't box. (Or didn't 20
years ago.) Nobody boxes without protective headgear-NCAA rules (only
pro's can be that stupid.)

Twins- one of the best acting jobs- and totally unrealistic. There are
no fat plebes. You have to be in top shape just to get in- there are
physicals and athletic evaluations. You eat 4,000 to 5,000 calories a
day during Plebe summer, and still lose weight. I lost 10 pounds.
Anyone overweight is put on a restricted diet.

Midshipman Authority- A Firstie, regardless of his stripes, is not
going to be timing the obstacle course and then making separation
decisions. A midshipman's training costs hundreds of thousands of
dollars- only qualified officials will separate someone, and only after
every attempt at remediation has failed. Bottom line- nobody with that
low a degree of self-discipline will survive to commissioning. You have
to want to be there yourself- not for someone else.

Free Time- There isn't any Plebe year. Huard certainly wouldn't have
been in the boxing gym after dark alone. (or with an upperclass
female.)

Fraternization- Jordanna's character, as the senior member, would know
better than to fraternize with (kiss) a subordinate. He was strictly
off-limits until the end of his Plebe Year. It happens- but wouldn't be
obvious (jogging together?)

Plebes No More- WTF was that? Only graduates throw their covers in the
air.

By the way, Wahlburg (sp?) was a Lieutenant Commander; they kept
calling him Lieutenant. 

The list goes on, but this is just a small sampling of the accurate and
inaccurate points of this forgettable movie. They could have fixed the
script, gotten competent advisors, and made a much better movie without
any additional budget. It costs the same to film them doing something
right, rather than wrong. I can see why the Academy Administration
distanced themselves from this project.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a preview for Annapolis last Friday and Saturday night I took my
husband. It was not the movie I thought it was going to be, but wasn't
sure why in my mind I was mislead, until tonight. This evening while
watching Flightplan at home, I saw a preview for Annapolis and oh
my!!!!! We counted 19 scenes in the preview that are not in the movie!
The preview shows an aircraft carrier being blown up and the movie
never even shows a boat in the water!!!! It shows all kinds of scenes
with fighter planes and there is never a scene in the movie with a
plane in it at all!!!! The preview makes it out to be an action combat
movie, which is just not the case at all. I want my money back for
false advertising!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
After insisting thirty-four times with his congressman, the shipyard
welder and amateurish boxer Jake Huard (James Franco) joins the U.S.
Naval Academy. Having difficulties in the classes and suffering
prejudice in his relationship with his superior Cole (Tyrese Gibson),
he has the support of his roommate and his superiors Ali (Jordana
Brewster) and Lt. Commander Burton (Donnie Wahlberg). Jake studies hard
and trains for an internal box competition, in an unfair environment.

"Annapolis" is one of those movies that the viewer can foresee the
whole story. In this one, there is a combination of those "tough lives
of rookies with their superiors" in a military facility with a box
competition, in a predictable collection of clich√©s. Further, the film
is miscast, with the sweet, mignon and gorgeous Jordana Brewster
couching James Franco in box fight. You certainly have already seen at
least twenty movies with one of these themes better than this one. My
vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "Annapolis"
<|_=00=_|>
Although a lot have people have been saying that it's a waste of time
to go see this movie, I would disagree. James Franco is a very talented
actor, and I thought he did well in this movie. Not only that, I found
Annapolis in general to be an entertaining film. The boxing scenes were
well shot and exciting enough. I know that it's similar to Topgun, but
I wouldn't call it a rip off. It's got it's own flare, and I throughly
enjoyed watching. A good soundtrack, great cinematography, and good
acting really make this movie. This movie might not be for everyone,
but I'm usually a pretty tough critic and I really liked it. So, if
you're looking for a good watch one night, go check out Annapolis and
decide for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Like most if not all moviegoers, I depend on the trailers preceding the
film to give me an idea of what it's about to help me make a decision
if I want to see it. When I saw the trailers for this film I thought it
looked pretty entertaining since I've spent all of my life either in or
around the military, including the Navy.

Well, after seeing the film the best I can muster to say is that I'm
very disappointed. The film doesn't resemble the trailer enough and I
feel that the trailer was deliberately designed to be misleading. There
is so much difference I feel defrauded. The trailer contains flash
footage of Navy Ships at sea, submarines, jet fighters, helicopters and
aircraft carriers. These images give the impression that some amount of
time in the film will be devoted to a Midshipman's experience on
cruises throughout the Navy. None of those things are in the film at
all.

The entire film centers around a rather lame and phony looking 3 round
amateur boxing match at the Academy. That kind of thing should have had
it's proper perspective in the career of a Midshipman at Annapolis, a
very brief and minor one done for diversion from arduous studies.
Beyond that, this seems to be a collection of gee, let's find some
pretty looking people and put them in tight uniforms.

At least the actors themselves seemed to try and give the audience
their money's worth. I think the best performance was by Vicellous Reon
Shannon, who played a much picked on overweight student. Next was
Jordana Brewster who still looked and acted more girlie than your
average competent Midshipman. James Franco looked buff in the manner of
young Hollywood and did OK with the material he was given but it lacked
enough story substance to feel real.

In the final analysis, serious drawbacks in the film included
completely inappropriate depictions of overt and blatant sexism, racial
discrimination and hazing, none of which would be tolerated at all in
the modern academy. Including those things constitutes a serious insult
to the integrity and honor of men and women in uniform at a time when
they are fighting and dying for the cause of freedom around the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Jake Huard (James Franco) is a young man from a poor family who wins
admission to the Annapolis Naval Academy, but finds it tougher than he
thought when he finds himself facing a superior officer (Tyrese Gibson)
in the Navy boxing competition.

The story is very similar to An Officer and a Gentlemen and there
really isn't much of a difference between those two films. Still,
Annapolis could have been an entertaining popcorn flick. Unfortunately,
its dull and very generic. Almost every scene plays like a scene from a
better movie. There is no creativity to be found here at all. It's an
empty movie and it has very little to offer. The premise may have
seemed like a good idea on paper but it sure didn't turn out that way.
It's no surprise that it was released in January.

The acting is not very good and it brings the film down quite a bit.
James Franco is an okay actor but I don't think he's good enough to be
a leading man. He just doesn't have what it takes and this film proves
it. Jordana Brewster gives an awful performance as Ali. She's very
pretty but she can't act at all. Tyrese Gibson can be a good actor when
he wants to be, like in Four Brothers. Here, he gives a bland,
unconvincing performance and he seemed to be reading from the cue cards
the entire time. The rest of the cast isn't very good but it's these
three that should have carried the film.

There are some good things to be found in Annapolis though. The boxing
scenes are actually pretty good. Of course, they occur at the end so
sitting through the first 80 minutes or so is probably not worth it.
There are also a few supporting characters that are interesting like
Twins. That's really all the good I can get from this film. The
chemistry between Jordana and James just wasn't there. The story wasn't
bad just nothing really new. It's a film that's kind of just there. Its
not really worth watching but if its on T.V and there's nothing else on
then it may not hurt as much as spending $9 in the theater. In the end,
Annapolis is a bland, forgettable film that will be just fine on DVD.
Rating 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Going into 'Annapolis, I thought I was going to be put to sleep by 2
hours of Navy promotion and boring clich√©s that went out of style years
ago. I got that, but 'Annapolis' is better than my expectations
suggested. That's not to say its a good movie; it's just not terrible.

The reason it is not terrible is a portion of the cast. James Franco
manages to overcome his poorly written, formulaic lead with his
hard-edged brand of acting. Vicellous Shannon has an effective
supporting role as Twins, an overweight black man from Arkansas. His
hometown, he explains, is counting on him to survive and pass the year.
This is an unexpectedly touching subplot, and I was surprised it
worked. Donnie Wahlberg and Chi McBride have good supporting roles, and
many of the anonymous students are portrayed convincingly.

Unfortunately, the production is let down by three factors: The script,
Tyrese Gibson, and Jordana Brewster. The script is, well, horrific.
While its nice to see military students cuss, some of the racist and
sexist remarks are extremely out of place. The script is a tireless
formula that simply will not go away (and I don't think I need to name
said formula). Next offender: Tyrese Gibson. Tyrese is not a bad actor,
but the aforementioned terrible script seems to have made him think he
needed to imitate R. Lee Ermey. He does this with the subtlety of a
jackhammer. Last, but not least, Jordana Brewster. I simply do not
believe for one second she is a Navy Midshipman. The romance between
her and Franco is laugh-inducing, and completely unrealistic (how many
times have I heard military students aren't allowed to fraternize?).

While it's not the disaster I expected, 'Annapolis' still earns my
dislike. There's good stuff, but not enough.
<|_=00=_|>
As a graduate of the US Naval Academy, this movie was disappointing. It
depicts the academy in a manner far from reality. Read the comments of
the USNA Superintendent posted on IMDb and come to your own conclusion.
The Academy offered its support to help make a film true to the ideals
and environment of USNA but was turned down by the film makers.

If you are looking for a realistic portrayal of the US service
academies, their values and mission, this movie misses the mark in a
big way. If you're just looking for a good yarn, it won't satisfy in
that regard either.

An accurate and compelling story could have been told with sets and
context true to Annapolis and might just have been a money maker for
the production company as well as a positive message for the Navy.

Unfortunate, as these times call for strong leadership and excellence
in the role our military occupies on the world stage, and that story
deserves accuracy, not Hollywood fantasy.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm only giving it 5 stars because it only lived up to half of the
expectations that the trailer gave it. Once you see it you will know
what I mean. I just got out of the theater a half hour ago and I left
disappointed because I was expecting to see what was promised in the
trailer. I'm talking about the ships, submarines, jets, helicopters,
being out to see, the ship explosion, and such. The only ship you see
is the one that is being built and it never even leaves the harbor. I
left feeling like they didn't have the budget to finish the movie so
they just cut it short. There are no scenes where they are outside the
grounds of Annapolis, unless you count the bar across the bay. It was a
good movie as long as you know what you are expecting. Expect to see
boxing scenes, as that is the new focus of the movie after they had to
cut out all the stuff after they ran out of money. Oh, and also the
line in the trailer, "Why are you so hard on him¬Ö" etc. yep, CUT!
<|_=00=_|>
First off -- there is "NO LARGE SHIP SHIPYARD" in Annapolis Maryland.
Nice footage of Baltimore (well it looks like Baltimore with a couple
buildings edited out) After watching it, I wonder were they ever in
Annapolis at all? Other than one or two long shots of the United States
Naval Academy buildings.

It is a boxing themed movie, with a little "forbidden" love interest
and a few guys in Naval style uniforms that have no clue about the
Navy.

I could have enjoyed the story much more if there were not so many
errors. It shows the quite wisely the Department of Defense and the
Department of the Navy did in no way render support or advice to the
movie's production staff. Thank goodness!
