
As I was walking down the stairs and out of the theater, I was trying
as hard as I could to pull a smile out of my face. My friends tensely
asked if I liked it, I said "Yes, of course!!" They nodded weakly in
response. On the way home, I kept thinking to myself. "You liked it!
C'mon! It's Spiderman!" Now, it's two days later, the euphoria of
waiting for Spidey to come out has subsided, and I've begun to look at
this flick a bit more (shall I say it?) critically.

It's plain to see that Sam Raimi is a fantastic director. He knows when
to do what and realizes that he is making a superhero movie, which is
why the Spider-man movies have done so well. It's not like the recent
Batman and Superman who try to hide the fact that they're just fun
superhero films. Raimi knows his material and embraces it. The effects
were astounding as usual. Spiderman's one-on-one fight with the Sandman
and the crane scene being the major highlights. I thought these
features would outbalance the weaker spots of the film, but
unfortunately they did not.

As far as acting goes, I'm surprised to say that Topher Grace stole the
show. I remember how outraged everyone was when he was chosen, but
obviously someone knew what they were doing when they let him on as
Venom. James Franco and Kirsten Dunst played their usual selves (I
can't help but think of Dunst dreaming of getting back to work with
Sofia Coppola while doing these films). However, Tobey Maguire REALLY
disappointed me. I've always thought he was so great at Spidey, which
is undeniable in the first two films and even in this one...when he has
his red suit on. Maguire is a one note actor, at least as far as Spidey
goes. He just could not pull off the black suit; he wasn't good at
being bad. Then came the horrific bridge scene with MJ. Along with most
other people I've talked to, my entire theater erupted in laughter when
he started crying. It was just...sad...and not in the way the writers
intended it.

Speaking of the writing, I hate to be beating a dead horse, but c'mon:
3 villains, Sandman's background, trouble with MJ, Harry's changing
attitudes, 2 different Spidermans, competition at the Bugle, Gwen
Stacy, etc. It was just WAY TOO MUCH! Even if you had four hours, it's
just too much to cram into the audience in one sitting. The great thing
about Spiderman 2 (the best of the trilogy) is how focused it was. You
had the inner struggle, the villain and his relationship with MJ. There
it was! Beautifully filmed and written. From the first 15 minutes of
Spiderman 3, I knew that all these parallel story lines were going to
crash within the next two hours. The sequence that shows how far
they've fallen from part two is the whole emo/hair in the
eyes/eyeliner/oh so cool "bad" Spiderman scenes. The first few minutes
of this was funny in the same way that the "Raindrops are Falling on my
Head" scene in part two was great, but this time they stretched a good
thing way too far. This whole sequence is what sticks in my mind and
refuses to let me think that the film was just as great as the rest.

I tried to like it! I really did! I just can't fool myself any longer.
Some critics like Peter Travers for Rolling Stone are saying that we
can let this one slide because it's Spiderman, but I couldn't disagree
more. Spiderman 3 missed the mark and, deep down inside, we all know
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is deeply flawed in certain ways. It's much more convoluted
than its predecessors, and nowhere near as cohesive. It seems like Sam
has tried to fit too much into the film. Three villains as well as
Peter's own inner demons, tension with MJ, problems at the Bugle...how
much can one superhero handle? Sure, everyone has their own part to
play...but introducing all those new characters, and having their
individual arcs play out to a satisfying extent - it's a big job, and
one that doesn't quite pay off - or, at least, pays off at the expense
of smooth narrative flow. We end up with some terribly clunky lines of
expository dialogue  such as Eddie Brock's line to Chief Stacy, which
goes something like 'I'm the new photographer at the Bugle...oh, and
I'm dating your daughter' - that will make you spit goo in annoyance
(or, whatever it is you do when you're annoyed - I spit goo) The many
mental/emotional shifts Harry (poor, poor Harry) goes through are
handled in a pretty ham-fisted way, too. I can see what Sam is trying
to do...but it just seems a bit...well, the word 'clunky' keeps coming
to mind. There are also a couple of very 'sequelly' bits, which seem a
little inconsistent with the other films. I'm not talking about the
whole 'Flint-Marko-killed-Uncle-Ben' thing  that was actually handled
surprisingly well. The most memorable example of what I mean is
Bernard's little word in Harry's ear concerning Norman's cause of
death. Umm...so, why couldn't he have mentioned it EARLIER?! Like,
y'know, at the start of Spidey 2 for instance! It would have saved
Harry a LOT of grief - not to mention Pete and MJ.

Narrative flaws and rough edges aside, however, this succeeds in being
far-and-away the most entertaining film of the three, based purely on
action and laughs. It is the darkest, the most action-packed, and by
far the FUNNIEST Spider-Man yet. This, I suppose, is the upshot of Sam
Raimi himself writing the screenplay (with brother and Army of Darkness
co-scribe Ivan). The sequence in which Peter turns into the lamest
bad-boy in history is a total crack-up. The looks on the faces of the
'laydeez' as he struts along the street like a nerdy, emo-midget
Travolta are absolutely priceless.

The chase/fight sequence between Peter and Gobby Jr. is brilliant. We
fly and fall through the air, not knowing which way is up half the
time. Only Sam Raimi could disorient an audience to that extent while
still allowing us to keep up with what's going on - AND manage to
inject the scene with such style, humour and gravity, all at the same
time.

Both Sandman and Venom are great to watch. Yes, the special effects are
awesome, but it mainly comes down to the fact that both characters are
so well cast (no surprise really, given the casting in the previous
films). Thomas Haden Church (a very BUFF Thomas Haden Church, I might
add) brings real humanity to Flint Marko. We actually empathise with
him. Topher Grace is great, too. He has fantastic comic timing, and
gives us a very slick, smarmy, but perversely likable Eddie/Venom. He
gets some of the best lines (as well as some of the worst).

The established cast are all as good as ever, and have now grown nicely
into their roles. They all seem comfortable, with the possible
exception of James Franco - just because his character has been messed
with a bit. But he does a good job considering.

And then there's Gwen.

Bryce Dallas Howard.

(*Sighs*)

Nothing much to say, really.

I suppose I could say that Gwen would never make it as a model, because
she's far too healthy-looking and altogether too attractive.

But that might be a little cynical of me.

Bryce has a big future in movies. She's a very capable actor, and is
obviously extremely photogenic. She just needs to stop doing bad M.
Night Shyamalan films. And keep doing good Sam Raimi ones.

Speaking of capable, extremely photogenic actors who keep doing Sam
Raimi movies, it's good to see Bruce Campbell in a slightly more
memorable part this time. I'd never imagined him playing a cheesy
French Maitre'D, but he gives a hilarious turn in a classic scene.

Yes, this film has problems, but if you just sit back and soak it up,
they don't really matter that much. The movie looks great, will make
you laugh, and will thrill you as well as move you. 

Possibly.

I can't really speak for everyone. I mean, you might be one of those
unfortunate people without a soul.

But I love it, in spite of its flaws, and I still think Sam Raimi is
one of the best high-profile directors in Hollywood - because he's all
about having fun. And that's what it all comes down to with Spider-Man
3.

Fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed Spider-Man 3 quite a lot. However, there were so many
problems with it that I ended up only "liking" it instead of loving it
like the first two films.

Let me get to the pros vs the cons:

THE GOOD

The Effects: Birth of Sandman is the coolest effect on any film I can
remember. Amazing! The fight scenes were also incredibly well realized. 

The Humor: J.Jonah.Jameson had some hilarious moments - especially his
first scene. Bruce Campbell plays a waiter (Maitre D really) in a
French restaurant, and it is probably the best scene in the whole
movie! Peter dancing! 

The Action: The first Sandman vs Spidey scene was very exciting. Maybe
the best battle sequence from all three films. CGI-Venom looked great
in the whole four-minutes of screen time he got. All the fight-scenes
were EXCELLENT, well choreographed and exciting.

The Acting: James Franco has improved much as Harry. Gwen Stacey was
much better used than I expected. (And she was beautiful!) Thomas Haden
Church was perfect for Sandman! Topher Grace did a fine job as Brock,
not so great as Venom.

I guess that is a good intro for...

THE BAD

Venom has WAY too little screen time. His story was too rushed. Sandman
is made to look like a good guy, then bad, and at some points we're not
sure what to think. Do we feel sorry for him? Fear him? The filmmakers
couldn't decide, and it shows. 

The Costumes: Harry's mask was just ridiculous! Seeing Brock's face in
the Venom suit looked stupid. And the Dark Spidey suit wasn't "alive"
enough. It just looked like a suit, not a living organism. 

The Score (music): Some parts were OK but some parts were SO bad it
ruined the scene! An example is the over-scoring of the first
Dark-Spidey scene (where he's hanging upside down looking at himself in
a building window). It was painfully bad, screaming out for the
audience to be amazed. Like holding up an applause sign. Tacky. Then
there were plenty of similar moments, mostly in other action scenes. 

American Cheese: Spidey landing in front of a HUGE, randomly placed,
waving American flag. The camera panning back from a crying MJ and
Peter atop a huge building, to make sure we see a sunset in the
background, etc. Manipulative tripe. 

The evil-dudes team-up in the end was very contrived. I didn't buy it.
How Spidey deals with Sandman in the end was also quite silly. Not cool
at all.

The biggest problem is trying to squeeze too much into one film.
Spider-Man 3 should have been about Sandman and Harry/Goblin. Venom
should have been held back for the next one. The fourth film could have
been all about Venom, giving him more screen time and the treatment he
deserves.

I know this was Sam Raimi's original plan (not to include Venom in this
film) but Avi Arad convinced him to add Venom into the story, for the
fans, since everybody loves Venom.

Too bad Sam didn't follow his plan. I doubt he'll come back for more
now. Let's just hope he gets to make The Hobbit (unless by some miracle
Peter Jackson gets to do it after all).

Thanks for reading! :)
<|_=00=_|>
There are some things that work really well, like the goofy comedy
that's also present in the other movies. The movie starts off nicely
with a great looking action sequence that implies how great the rest of
it could be. The special effects are fantastic. Unfortunately, the
movie is so convoluted that anything like a coherent plot is lost, as
well as any significant character development further than Harry, Mary
Jane or Peter himself.

Peter's "transformation" into a darker self when he dons the dark suit
is laughable. You're not sure whether you're watching a comedy, a
drama, or a purposefully ridiculous B movie. Peter's actions are so
over the top that you just want to laugh at the script rather than WITH
it.

The main villains get only a short amount of screen time, and by the
"big" ending you're just wondering when Dawson's Creek is going to end
and when Spiderman 3 will begin. 90% of the film consists of Peter
Parker walking around, crying, and making a fool of himself in various
over-the-top ways. Perhaps I went in with too many expectations, such
as the possibility of an atmosphere to the film that would fit with
what was happening.

As a fan of the old cartoon, and a real fan of Venom, I was incredibly
let down by the amount of time spent on his character, as well as the
fact that Topher Grace is essentially Eric from That 70's Show, and I
don't mean that it's the same actor. He's the same scrawny, sarcastic
joker that he always plays, which, if you're familiar with the comic or
the cartoon, Eddie Brock was NOT. Even if you've never heard of Venom
or aren't a big fan, the villain has a total of about fifteen minutes
on screen and isn't very exciting, nor is anything about him explained.
He's simply suddenly THERE, as if thrown into the movie only to get
butts in the seats. So feels the entire movie. It all seems like
filler, even as the end credits start.

There was a point about halfway through the movie that I simply gave up
trying to justify the movie, and realized that it was just plain bad.
They tried to do too much, and by having so many villains, weren't able
to make a single one very deep. And the whole "inner conflict" theme is
a joke. Literally. Peter's "dark side" is more comedy than anything
else.

I recommend waiting for this to come out on video and giving it a rent
if you're really that much of a fan. Overall, it's a big let down
considering the expectations and hype surrounding it.
<|_=00=_|>
My feelings after watching the third film are somewhere in the
neighborhood of satisfied, but that feeling is fairly disappointing.
Satisfied more or less means adequate and to follow a sequel that I
consider excellent with a film that's only adequate is a certainly a
step down. Positively, Spider-Man 3 does reasonably well at maintaining
a feeling similar to that of the first two films. I never felt like I
wasn't seeing the same world or characters and that's important to me.
Continuity in tone really helps hold a series together. The Matrix
Reloaded never felt to me like I was witnessing the continuation of the
story and world presented in the first installment. The scenery and
characters felt like weak and dull recreations and that really bugged
me. The New-York of Spider-Man 3 is about the same as before, as is
Peter's apartment, The Daily Bugle offices, etc. Peter, Harry, Mary
Jane, Aunt May, etc. also carry over well and it's easy to jump back
into their lives. Where it doesn't feel like its predecessors is in its
pacing and scope. The film tries to tell a lot of story for one film,
much more than either the previous installments. This makes it messy.
If you took Spider-Man 1 and 2's stories, wove them together and
compressed them into one 2 hour film, you'd have a mess pretty similar
to Spider-Man 3. A lot of this has to do with poor exposition and the
decision to include three villains. In good exposition, events lead to
other events and it all seems to flow naturally. Some films end up
feeling like a story wasn't really even written, but instead a series
of well-crafted scenes that don't necessarily fit well together. A
bunch of smaller scenes are then written to connect those scenes. These
scenes can feel very forced because they often rely heavily on
coincidence. The Matrix Reloaded is full of these contrived scenes and
so is Spider-Man 3. They're frustrating because they act like speed
bumps where the plot suddenly feels awkward and my enjoyment of the
film drops. One scene sticks out particularly in Spider-Man 3 as too
awkward. Venom, one of the super-villains, is swinging through
alleyways when he is ambushed by the Sandman, another villain. Venom
proposes they team to get Spider-Man together, Sandman agrees, end
scene. This scene is needed to set up the final, huge battle of the
film but just seems poorly worked in. For one it's very short, and two
the characters don't know each other and have completely different
motives for being villains. That the two would decide that quickly to
become partners after coincidentally running into each other is just
sloppy to watch.

Despite how it seems, I didn't hate the film. I was just disappointed
in its flow as a narrative and thought it aimed much higher than it
should have in terms of what to include plot wise. Regardless though,
many scenes were very enjoyable to watch and I don't just mean action
scenes. The Daily Bugle scenes, as always, were great and funny. The
addition of Topher Grace as Peter's photographer rival, Eddie Brock,
was great casting. His line delivery works perfectly with his
character's sleazy personality and his scenes with Peter are some of
the best. The character Harry Osborne returns and becomes one of the
film's three villains: a new Green Goblin that takes over where the
Goblin of the first film left off. Harry and Peter's relationship is
probably the most interesting part of the story. Their struggle between
being friends and enemies makes for some tense moments. One of my
favorite scenes in the film is a verbal confrontation in a diner
between Peter and Harry. Playing off Peter's presumption that he and
Harry are back on good terms, Harry orchestrates a bit of nasty drama
that sticks a knife in Pete's love life. He has Peter meet him in a
diner just to drive the knife in a little further. As Pete storms out,
Harry is awash in sadistic joy with himself before making a fast and
creepy exit. Harry is really the best handled villain of the film. Not
only as the Green Goblin Jr. fighting Spider-Man in the sky much the
way his father did, but as Harry, Peter's estranged friend, using their
friendship as a pretty sharp weapon against him. The villain I could
have done without was the Sandman. His character was interesting but
his place in the film as a main character seemed unnecessary and
forced. He's an escaped convict running from the police who
accidentally falls into a big science experiment and becomes the
Sandman. He is also apparently the actual killer of Peter's uncle Ben
thus giving Peter motivation to go after him. This reworking of the
first film's story seems very far fetched and unnecessary. The computer
effects used to create Sandman are terrific as is the performance by
Thomas Hayden-Church, but I think the film would have improved without
him. More time could then have been given to the conflicts with Harry
and Eddie and likewise Goblin and Venom. Venom is particularly nice
because he's the only villain not the product of some crazy experiment
gone wrong. His creation is almost entirely Peter's fault. Venom acts
as a slimy toothy grinning anti-Spider-Man, who hates Spider-Man on a
personal level after Eddie Brock loses his job and girlfriend and holds
Peter responsible. Two villains definitely would've been enough for one
film, especially two villains that feel wronged by Peter personally,
not just Peter as Spider-Man. I don't really want them to continue this
series, but since it seems like they may anyway, I hope some lesson is
learned with number three that less really can be more. If the time
that was spent awkwardly packing too many stories into one film was
instead spent working on one good story so that it flowed naturally,
Spider-Man 3 could have excelled the way number two did.
<|_=00=_|>
What is there to say about this movie? After the light-hearted yet
great action-packed first two movies, what were we to expect for the
third movie? Apparently the movie was marketed as the "darkest" of the
three, seemed to promise more action, especially when combining three
villains from the comic books.

But as a loyal fan, I went to the theater to see the movie. Bought the
tickets multiple days in advance and waited to see what has been hyped
up for so long. And the reviews and critics were right. The movie tries
to do too much and in the end disappoints.

First, the movie fails to fully introduce any of the new characters,
and for most of the first half is quite scatter brained and moves from
sequence to sequence, failing to bring any of these stories really
together.

Despite the poor development, the worst part of the movie was the
cheesiness. Yes, we all know this is a comic adaptation. Yes, we all
know comic books are cheesy. But not to this extent. For moments, I had
actually believed we were sitting in the wrong theater, watching some
horrible chick flick. There were moments in the movie that seemed out
of ordinary, random, like chosen scenes from SNL making parodies of
itself. As funny as this may sound, it made it difficult to continue
watching the movie. We were constantly reminded of Tobey Maguire and
James Franco's inexperience as actors. Neither of whom could pull of
the cheesiness or light-hearted fun.

The movie writers completely moved away from what the first two movies
set up. And even worse, they deceived the movie-goer with the trailers.
You enter the theater expecting more action, some darker events, but
perhaps the same light-hearted comic book fun. Yet, you get less
action, less plot development, "dark" events that are impossible to
take seriously and will just laugh at instead, and over-sapped
cheesiness that puts "Scary Movie," "Not Another Teen Movie," and
"Can't Hardly Wait" to shame. For a movie that was portrayed in the
trailers as "the darkest of the three," it earned the most laughters,
mockeries, disappointments and walk-outs I've seen in a Spiderman
screening.

It was honestly difficult to sit through this movie. I am a comic book
junky, and even for me, it was nearly unbearable. Very disappointed in
the way they chose to finish the series.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, your friendly neighbourhood superhero is back! 

Its a different time now for Peter Parker as Spider-Man now becoming an
icon,hero and idol for the people of New York. Consequently, it makes
Parker become egoistic and arrogant and thus lead to many conflicts
that he need to overcome as a human and a hero.

The good aspects about this film are : 1-The action sequences are
stylish, brilliantly done and intense as hell. You need to see to
believe it! The used of CGI here deserve an applause.

2- For a superhero flick, it balance its heart-pumping action scenes
and well written drama with flair.

3- The creation of Sandman and Venom are very memorable and astounding.

4- J. Jonah Jameson and the Maître d' (brilliantly played by Bruce
Campbell) really steal every scenes their in! Pure classic comedy
moment.

5- The ending. A bit cliché but still sum up the trilogy quite nicely.
It also provide hints that the future of this franchise is still
bright.

The negative aspects of this flick: 1- The pacing. It felt rush ( not
as smooth as Spider-Man 2) and there is little character development,
especially from the villains. I felt for Dr.Ock from spider-man 2 far
more than Sandman and Venom combine. The beautiful Gwen Stacy doesn't
contribute much to the film. A waste of time for her actually. They
should save this girl for the next film to produce more tension for
Parker and Mary Jane.

2-Lots of crying and disco dancing. The scene in the club, where Parker
(his dark side) expose his talent in dancing ( Fez from That 70's Show
comes to my mind immediately when i watched this scene)is overlong.
They should just cut it a bit and add more character development.

3-The climax. It so predictable and the dialogues from the female
reporter are cringe-inducing . " Oh, the brutality." Enough said.

Overall, its still an enjoyable movie. I enjoyed it better than
Spider-Man 1 but I think it cannot top the brilliant of Spider-Man 2. I
hope if there is a Spider-Man 4, there should stick to one villain in
that movie. It really makes all the different.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I'm a HUGE fan of Spiderman...Liked the first movie, LOVED the
second flick and was dying to see the third one. And since I live in
Korea, I was able to see the movie tonight (SM3 opened in Asia 3 days
before it opens in North America). I'm sad to say, I was let down by
the third film.

The biggest issue by far is the fact that there are FAR too many story
lines going on at once. The movie feels very bogged down and not nearly
enough time is given for proper character development.

In this movie, there is Spiderman, Mary Jane, Gwen Stacey, "New" Goblin
Venom and Sandman. Each character is given the bare amount of time for
development.

I'm assuming that since most of the cast is non-committal to returning
for a fourth movie, the filmmakers decided to throw as many stories
into this movie in case it was the end. It really takes away from the
movie as a whole.

The other big issue I have is the very forced sense of humor the movie
tries to take. From a very lame riff on John Travolta's walk from
"Saturday night fever" to watching Peter Parker dance to jazz music, a
lot of the humor feels like it's was written for a SNL sketch.

There is a very poor ending involving Spiderman and Sandman that defies
logic.

I sincerely hope this is NOT the last Spiderman film, because if it is,
it's certainly not the best way for the series to end. None of the
magic and originality of the second film are here. I hope that a
decision is made to do a fourth film and I hope if a fourth film is
made, the filmmakers decide to go back to what made the second film so
special.

** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
Third entry has Peter Parker and alter ego Spider-Man fighting what
could possibly be the greatest battle of his life. The intrepid Parker
is on top of the world as N.Y.C. citizens have finally come to
appreciate all of his heroic deeds, but more importantly he's found a
stable relationship with Mary Jane Watson. His seemingly perfect
existence comes to an abrupt halt when he learns that his uncle's real
killer is still at large, he acquires a rival at the Daily Bugle, and
best friend-turned-bitter adversary Harry Osborn comes seeking revenge.
Peter also bonds with an unusual black symbiote that unleashes a darker
side of him and threatens to destroy everything he holds dear. Some
effective moments of intense, exciting action and superior special
effects are undermined by overlength, and juxtaposed against moments of
corny, unintentionally funny human drama. The ingredients for a success
are there, including a good cast and some interesting subplots, but
they can't overcome a leaden script which chooses to revel in its
mawkish material rather than flesh out its characters or tell a
coherent story. Watchable, but never as engaging or spectacular as its
predecessors. **½
<|_=00=_|>
"Spider-Man 3" comes really close to being as difficult to follow as an
"X-Men" movie. Well, maybe not that close since an "X-Men" movie
requires the viewer to try to follow the lives of at least a dozen
different characters. But I think it was a mistake for the makers to
have Spidey contend with three different villains in one film. Unlike
the two superior predecessors, it felt like they were trying to cram
three movies into one with "Spider-Man 3".

I was most disappointed with the use, or misuse, of the Harry
Osborne/Green Goblin character. We know that Harry must become the
Green Goblin if he is going to have the ability to take on his super
hero nemesis Peter Parker/Spider-Man. The makers of "Spider-Man 3"
waste no time in picking up where "Spider-Man 2" left off. Not only
does the movie not allow the viewer to observe Harry's transformation
into the Green Goblin, but Harry doesn't even dress appropriately for
his role. He wears a black uniform and never becomes the public menace
his father did. I was looking forward to the Daily Bugle covers about
the return of the menace of the Green Goblin. Instead Harry's campaign
of revenge against Peter is quickly side tracked by a bout with amnesia
after suffering a blow to the head in a fall during his first fight
with Peter. After all, the film needs to introduce two more villains,
Sandman and Venom, before it ends.

Whereas, in the first two films the viewer really gets to know the
Norman Osborn and Otto Octavius characters, in "Spider-Man 3" the
length of time devoted to the villains amounts to a movie short. Along
the way Peter Parker must also contend with his dark side and his
troubles in his relationship with his love Mary Jane Watson. Meanwhile,
the landlord's daughter, Ursula, is back to amuse viewers once again
with her adolescent crush on Pete. Add to all this the time needed to
develop the Sandman and Venom villains, plus Gwen Stacy, and I was left
wondering exactly what the movie is about.

"Spider-Man 3" is big budget extravaganza that is out of focus in the
areas of character and plot development. While it has its laugh
inducing comic moments and the best special effects sequences money can
buy, it has little else to offer. While I really wanted to see the
first two movies again, because I enjoyed the transformation of the
main characters into super heroes and villains, it feels like the only
reason to see "Spider-Man 3" is to check out the special effects again.
If there are more Spider-Man films made, and there is no reason to
believe there won't be given the money involved in releasing another
film, then I would hope that the makers would simplify the story once
again and do what made the first two films so enjoyable to watch.
