
If any film demands to be graded on a curve, it's The A-Team.

Simply consider the notion of making a big-budget summer movie from of
one of the cheesiest television shows of a cheesy TV era.

It's a crafty plan to lower your expectations. As long the movie isn't
two hours of punching grandmothers and kicking puppies, you're likely
to leave the theater saying, "That was better than I expected."

Guess what? It works like a charm.

The A-Team, against all odds, is one extremely entertaining film. It
puts pedal to metal about 90 seconds in and never lets up. That's also
savvy because it's also kind of a mess that would collapse under its
own weight if it slowed down for more than two minutes.

Director Joe Carnahan (Smokin' Aces, Narc) isn't taking that chance.
Action scenes come flying at you hard and heavy from start to finish.
The results are mixed: Some sequences are choppy and confusing, others
thrilling. But like a comedy that never stops pitching jokes, content
if only half of them stick, The A-Team pitches action, action, action,
with a side of action and a little action to wash it down.

The plot follows the general concept of the TV series with a few
tweaks. A (very) lengthy credits sequence set in Mexico shows us how
the team of former Army Rangers comes together: Leader John "Hannibal"
Smith (Liam Neeson), his right-hand man Templeton "Face" Peck (Bradley
Cooper), powerful Bosco "B.A." Baracus (Quinton "Rampage" Jackson) and
loony pilot James "Howling Mad" Murdock (Sharlto Copley).

We jump ahead several years, where the A-Team is now an Army covert
operations crew with dozens of successful missions under their belts.
But when they're set up for a fall by a variety of villainous forces,
the boys have to break out of jail and fight to clear their names.

That's pretty much all you wanted to know about the plot, right?
Because it gets pretty confusing from there and doesn't matter in the
slightest anyway. It's only there to support  that's right  action.

Before I tell you why A-Team is worth your hard-earned cash, I should
lay out its many faults.

Though Carnahan directed, it's not surprising to see director Tony
Scott was one of the producers. Too many scenes evince Scott's "look" 
the camera shoved in way too tight on the actors, so you can't tell
what the hell's going on in fight scenes or big gun battles.

The special effects are wildly uneven too, especially in the climax. It
looks like the usual Hollywood problem of the CGI being "just good
enough" to make a locked-in release date. This time, it's nowhere near
good enough.

But then, The A-Team is a nitpicker's dream, if you really want to go
there. Jessica Biel's casting seems like an inside joke  "we're not
taking this seriously, and neither should you, so let's cast a gorgeous
but astonishingly wooden actor in this role."

Maybe you're wondering whether she's really that bad. Look at it this
way: This is the first major film role for "Rampage" Jackson, an MMA
fighter. He's not great, but he's not too bad  and that's high praise
for a non-actor stepping into the iconic role. Yet he's a good bit more
believable than Biel.

So with those issues, what makes The A-Team so entertaining? The rest
of the cast, actually. If you can look past Biel (actually, look right
at her, that's what she's there for), the film is jam-packed with
colorful, charismatic performances.

Neeson seems a bit odd at first stepping into George Peppard's shoes as
Hannibal, being considerably taller, leaner and tougher. But that's
appropriate for the movie, which is basically the TV show on (lots and
lots of) steroids. No attempt is made to explain his Irish accent, nor
that of Copley, who is South African. It doesn't matter: Somehow in
this film, it works.

But the film decides early on to focus on Cooper, hot off his success
in The Hangover, and it's the right choice. You'd never have guessed
the guy who played eighth fiddle on Alias would be front-and-center for
a star-making performance, but it's true.

The A-Team shows off Cooper's buffed-up physique almost to the point of
absurdity  he's shirtless on screen more than Mark Wahlberg in Date
Night  but Cooper's charisma carries the day throughout.

A well-rounded supporting cast also delivers. Patrick Wilson and Brian
Bloom, as potentially shady characters related to the A-Team's
troubles, steal every scene they're in. (It probably doesn't hurt that
Bloom, a veteran actor mostly relegated to TV work, gets co-writing
credit.) Their wonderfully brash characters bring welcome levity to the
pounding machine of gunfights and explosions that propels The A-Team.

Finally, I would be remiss if I didn't note the drinking game that by
all rights should be born from this film: Drink whenever a guy with icy
blue eyes is on screen. You'd pass out halfway through the film.

There's Cooper and Neeson alone, plus Bloom and Wilson, with a little
Gerald McRaney  yes, Major Dad himself  thrown in for good measure.

If you're really into dudes with bright blue eyes, The A-Team is like
porn. If you're into nonstop action and lots of male bonding, The
A-Team is like porn. If you're into deep, fully-realized female
characters  well, look elsewhere.

But if you had to ask me what I would want a big-screen take on a
really silly TV show to be, The A-Team more than fits the bill. It's
ridiculous, sure. But it's also a ridiculous amount of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
The A-Team is easily one of the best summer movies made (It knows what
it is, and what it isn't - It doesn't try to be anything else), and
some of the most fun I've had at the movies in a long time. 

On top of some great action sequences that left people cheering, the
crowd also laughed non-stop. Bradly Cooper's comedic timing is
excellent! 

This one is worth checking out. Bring your friends! They did the show
justice, and will introduce a younger generation to a great show.
Carnahan put together a great movie, which easily could have gone the
way of Starsky & Hutch, or Charlies Angels. 

Have fun!
<|_=00=_|>
Overkill is underrated. One of the many mottoes Colonel John Hannibal
Smith throws around whilst hatching his brilliant plans, dispensing
them like his insightful wisdom increases the chances of success. A
motto director Joe Carnahan has taken to heart in making 'The A-Team'.
A smart move, as complete and uncompromising exaggeration appears to be
exactly what the format asked for. Especially since the translation of
TV shows to the big screen has proved to be no easy task. Just look at
'Miami Vice', which pretty much bombed despite the presence of Michael
Mann, the director/producer who created the original series. Or the
near criminal trashing überhobbyist MacGuyver recently received by the
hands of questionable farce 'MacGruber'. In a world so significantly
different from the mid-eighties, the severely underpaid and hopelessly
dated missions of the four fugitives could have very much been out of
place as well. 

The reincarnation by the hands of Carnahan however, avoids many of the
pitfalls that the outdated format has to offer. For one, the director
has brought the well known premise of the series to the present.
Vietnam has been replaced by Iraq and the bad attitude of Bosco Baracus
is not the only thing that makes the foursome dangerous: the
happy-go-lucky stance of a team that rarely asked for enemy casualties
has been replaced by an attitude that better suits a group of elite
soldiers. What is especially striking is how well the cast handle their
roles, and how much fun they have doing so. Understandable, since the
characters in Carnahan's installment have been blown up as well.
Hannibal in the hands of Liam Neeson, although not as charismatic as
George Peppard, is equally complacently on the jazz whenever a
dangerous situation can be even remotely relished. Templeton "Faceman"
Peck in the version of Bradley Cooper enjoys the swindling of both
women and all sorts of tools even more than his predecessor Dirk
Benedict and the script provides Quinton "Rampage" Jackson with a
philosophical depth to his distinctive character - and evolution
thereof - in the BA 2.0 version. The acting skills of the professional
wrestler are up for debate, but then again you never questioned Mr. T.
either. Even though he played the bejeweled, Mohawk sporting powerhouse
with an acute fear of flying as an overly enthusiastic pupil in a
school musical, always staring at the next person to speak his lines
way long before they had the floor. The biggest fun, however, comes
from Howling Mad Murdock in the interpretation of 'District
9'-phenomenon Sharlto Copley, who occupies the crazy pilot with both a
zest for life and an absolute fearlessness of death  cue the suicidal
midair antics. His inimitable flying skills, Murdockian features (sock
puppets and his interaction with BA for example) and especially his
imitation of Mel Gibson in 'Braveheart' - including stick horse - make
him the movies' main asset. 

The script then. The plot, pretty much a side issue, continuously
serves up action excesses  equally incredible and entertaining  but
yields more than a whipped episode of the series stretched to a playing
time of two hours. You could say the plot is kind of a cross section of
the five years the series ran, if you omit the recurring missions the
mercenaries entered into. There is plenty of borrowing from existing
story lines, more or less adapted to the new universe of Carnahan. The
film opens with a spectacular introduction of the four veterans some
years ago - only Hannibal and Face are trusted comrades, BA and Murdock
have still to cross their paths - setting up the Alpha team that
started it all. Included of course, is a supporting role for the black
GMC Van, which can impossibly be disregarded as the fifth member. Cut
to eight years and eighty successful missions later, to the operation
that sees the team become the proverbial scapegoat the series theme
credits were based on  something to do with a crime they didn't
commit. The bank robbery in Hanoi has been replaced by the hijacking of
a truckload of counterfeit money in Baghdad, commanding General
Morrison is still here. The CIA is present as well, in a possible
set-up for a sequel in which Hannibal's outfit will be contracted by
the organization in a reference to Stockwell (Robert Vaughn) of the
fifth season of the series. The plot is driven by the aftermath of the
robbery, offering supporting roles for Captain Charisa Sosa (the
distractingly attractive Jessica Biel) and CIA man Lynch (Patrick
Wilson, 'Watchmen'), but it's all a mere hook for ridiculous set pieces
and extravagant action to be towed on. 

Hannibal's crack commando unit must pull out all the stops in order to
clear its name, in an adventure that at times offers absolute top
entertainment. That is, if you're willing to believe that a parachute
suspended tank (as seen in the trailer), wherein the fearless foursome
escape from an exploding plane, can be easily maneuvered in midair
using the inboard cannon, simultaneously discarding enemy aircraft like
it's a game of Duck Hunt. There are enough sequences that ask more than
a lot of your ability to shut off your brain, but as said that
exaggeration is exactly what this film needed. 'The A-Team' is simply a
masterful popcorn spectacle par excellence, offering high-level action
entertainment and jokes that are more often than not very decently set
up. The cast has great fun working with the pleasantly unlikely
adventures and the story is  in good tradition - full of references to
the 80's hit series it is based on. The plot falters a bit left and
right and the credo overkill is underrated is at times perhaps taken a
little too far, but that is merely an expected consequence of handing
control over to the man behind 'Smokin' Aces'. Regardless, the oncoming
release might well feature a well-deserved 'to be continued' by the
time the end credits start rolling.
<|_=00=_|>
I just returned from watching this movie, and frankly, I didn't even
know it was a story taken from an earlier series until I wikipedia-ed
it just now. That being said, the expectations and sensitivities in a
fan of the original series is non-existent in me, so this is purely
based on what I felt about the movie itself.

First off, the casting is near perfect. Everyone had a role that they
played very well, and while Rampage Jackson's acting could have been a
little better, his presence and screen time were downplayed to perhaps
make up for it. But that's what I'm talking about, it was a very good
balance of characters that was consistently carried throughout the
movie. Who really stood out for me was Sharlto Copley. For someone who
wasn't professionally trained as an actor, he portrayed the crazy
Murdoch flawlessly. I brought my parents to watch the show and they
loved his performance, with mom going as far to say the movie worked
because everything funny came from him. I have to agree, I was
certainly very entertained for the whole duration of the movie largely
due to him.

What I didn't particularly like were the computer generated effects.
They looked quite fake at times, and it hints at a rushed job by
animators. While the first three quarters of the film had a fairly
consistent amount of action, the last quarter was overkill. Spoilt the
movie a little for me, but the overall experience was a good one.
Movies are meant to entertain and I most definitely was, much more than
I expected for the price I paid for my ticket. Word of warning though -
you really shouldn't think too deeply about the story when you're
watching this. There are unresolved plot holes and some people have
expressed upset at this, but the film was never marketed as a 'story'
kind of film in any way so they really should've known better.

This movie is not for movie buffs who look for the meaning of life in
films, but if a hilarious, well-acted, action-packed movie is your
thing? I say go watch this now.

Story : Okay 

Acting : Ranging from awesome to not bad 

Cast dynamics :Brilliant 

Hilarity factor : Totally 

Special Effects : Acceptable to meh at times 

Duration : Long but I didn't feel it 

Would watch again : YEAH.
<|_=00=_|>
I was quite a fan of the A-Team when I was a wee lad, thanks mostly to
cable TV reruns, and I was eagerly anticipating this movie from the
moment I saw the first episode. At no time did I think it wouldn't
happen.

Of course, as the years passed, and I grew older and wiser, I came to
realise that an A-Team movie might just be a really bad idea. I mean,
c'mon, an ex-Army unit that never kills ANYONE? That uses ridiculous
plans that frequently broke the laws of logic and physics? Yeah, right.

Fortunately, when this film WAS announced, I couldn't help but feel a
little excited. Especially when that cast came forward. And the first
trailer had me revved up... and nervous. Could so easily be trash.

Well, it is trash. Trash of the most glorious, overblown,
wonderfully-fun kind. Tongue planted firmly in cheek, and with utter
acknowledgement of the fact that the most it can aspire to is "A Fun
Night Out". The cinematic equivalent to a Big Mac: ridiculously bad for
you, and part of you wishes you hadn't, but you still enjoyed the hell
out of it anyway.

The cast work well together, and have a pretty good team dynamic. Liam
Neeson brings the right combo of gruffness and cool to Hannibal (though
a little more humourless than George Peppard), and Bradley Cooper is,
well, Bradley Cooper, wise-cracking and entertaining as con-man Face.
Though many have spoken ill of Quinton 'Rampage' Jackson as B.A., I
thought he was capable enough in a role that required little more of
him than snarling watered-down catch-phrases. Of the foursome, the easy
stand-out is Sharlto Copley's jittery, crazy-eyed Murdock, who manages
to steal the scene whenever the camera lingers on him for more than
three seconds. If District 9 marked him as a bright new talent,
hopefully this film should make him a star.

Jessica Biel as conflicted agent (and Face's ex) Charisa Sosa, and
Patrick Wilson as smug CIA man Lynch, offer some fine support, but
really, this film's all about the action. And the action. And the
action. Which is served up with a trowel. Most of it's
wonderfully-overblown, but in that great "Aw, that was cool" way that
was prevalent in the Eighties (though the level of exaggeration which
the climax reaches does start to stretch even the most resilient
switch-off action fan).

All in all, my best advice is sit back, switch off, and enjoy the ride.
It may not be the A-Team you remember, but it's a hell of a lot of
brainless fun nonetheless. And we really haven't had that for a while.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember first hearing about this. Cautious optimism was among my
immediate reactions. Later, I caught a trailer(on that, do not think
for a second that you saw all the good stuff, there's plenty they
didn't give away). I was still not sure what to think. Then I watched
it tonight. I enjoyed every single frame. No, I'm not kidding, this
works from the very start and never loses you. I love the show, and
this pays a lot of respect to it(at times, a tad much... early on,
Neeson's every other line contains the word "plan"), and this not only
nails the four characters(who all get an unforgettable introduction
each, and several individual heroic moments), it doesn't merely
imitate, but builds and slightly reinterprets to update them. They are
played rather well; Liam looks like he was born with that cigar in his
mouth, Bradley genuinely is charming and suave, Sharlto(from District
9; he reverts to his dialect here and there) comes across as a lunatic
without that making us dislike him, and Jackson... well, he looks cool,
he's not asked to do anything he can't handle, and he's certainly got
more charisma than any other wrestlers on the silver screen(or Vin
Diesel). The acting is in general marvelous, and every role is
well-cast. Everybody is a bad-ass in this(on/off at least), and that
does get old every now and then. Biel is largely eye-candy(as is all
other females in this), though we know that she can do this kind of
thing, and she doesn't let us down. The dialog wants to be as clever
and full of banter as 2008's Iron Man, and this leads to it trying too
hard some(with that said, two thirds of it works perfectly, and it's
not a complete buzz-kill when it doesn't). It is hilarious a lot of the
time, and the half-full theater I was in all clearly got a kick out of
it. This is two hours of pure fun with non-stop, awesome action that
doesn't repeat itself, with shoot-outs, chases and fights. It's not
realistic, and it's not meant to be. The plans are *brilliant* and
seeing them gather materials for them is a blast. This keeps to an
immensely fast pace, without overwhelming us, and it fits in plenty of
well-thought out plot(that doesn't confuse, in spite of twists and
such, that hold up). The script is by the guy who did Wolverine,
Swordfish and Hit-man and a rookie; however, maybe because of help from
the director(who I've only seen one other thing by, his outstanding The
Hire short), they turn in something magnificent. FX are
plentiful(occasionally overshadowing the people... be careful,
Carnahan), and excellent with a few brief poor bits. The editing is
tight, cinematography stylish. While it's black and white,
switch-off-your-brain-at-the-door, Hollywood popcorn flick, it doesn't
claim or attempt to be anything else, and it's an utterly well-made and
re-watchable one at that. There is a little strong language and
brutality to the violence in this(no blood). I recommend this to fans
of the television series who don't have impossible-to-reach
expectations, and everyone who can get into a movie that just
entertains you for a solid 120 minutes. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for a light, funny and action packed movie, it
doesn't get much better than this. The A-Team is very, very easy too
take in, but never boring, has action-scenes that will blow you out of
your seat and is stuffed with plenty of damn funny moments.

Also very nice for a change: this action/comedy film doesn't take
itself too seriously. Which is quite refreshing if you take a look at
all the 'comedy with a message' crap Hollywood produces these days.

The new B.A. (Quinton 'Rampage' Jackson), Murdock (Sharlto Copley),
Hannibal (Liam Neeson) and Face (Bradley Cooper) are all great at their
roles. Props for Patrick Wilson as the slick C.I.A. agent Lynch and
Jessica Biel is lovely as always. Joe Carnahan, who wrote and directed
this movie, simply did a great job and gives the audience exactly what
it needs.

I'd say it was definitely worth my money.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a fan of the 80's television series as a child, naturally I was
pretty excited 3 or 4 years ago when i heard about a possible 'A-Team'
feature film. Back then, I believe the rumoured cast included Bruce
Willis and possibly Jim Carrey??? The years went by until about a year
ago I saw a picture of the current A-team cast in "EMPIRE"
magazine....what - no Mr T????? OUTRAGE!!!

I was disappointed in the least and my eagerness and enthusiasm for an
"up-dated' version of a beloved classic jumped out the window and died!
Then, 2010 roles upon us and the trailers for the film hit the internet
and cinemas but still - it didn't grab me. It looked tacky,
un-original(well it's Hollywood and a re-make so it still kind of is),
with totally over-the-top and overblown Micheal Bay-style action
sequences and not a single trace of any whit or plot visible!

If it was not for my Dad (also an avid fan of the show) offering to pay
for me, I probably would not have bothered seeing the film. Well...not
at the cinemas anyway.

We watched the film last night and i have to say, it was definitely
better than I was expecting. It was actually and surprisingly very
good! I was fearing all my fond memories of my favourite characters
such as 'B.A. Barachus' and 'Mad Murdoch' would be spat on and
watered-down into ironic cliché versions of what they originally were -
instead, I was treated to a clever and accurate modernisation of one of
the best T.V. shows of the 80's!

The main concept for A-team to work is all about a successful
interpretation of the characters. If the characters aren't right - the
film will fall flat and will only be branded as A-team by name alone,
nothing more than a cash-in on the name. Fortunetly the characters,
although played by different actors - are successfully updated and
portrayed and still somehow feel the same as the originals with the
humour and witty dialogue still there in spades!

The cast did a fine job in their respective roles especially South
African actor Sharlto Copley as 'Howling mad Murdoch'! He was hilarious
and out of all the cast - resembled his 80's counterpart most
accurately in his appearance. Quinton Jackson, although not quite Mr T
- still managed to portray a descent portrayal of 'B.A' and although I
don't recall him saying his famous catch-phrase more than once, he made
up for it with his witty tattoos! I thoroughly enjoyed the back-story
to his fear of flying!!!

The action scenes (as obvious from the trailers) are pretty big and
impressive which is normal by today's standards. Lot's of explosions,
gun/fist fights and airplane chases a-plenty fill the plot (yes...there
is actually a plot) in nicely. None of the action sequences are drawn
out too long and although some of the scenes suffer a bit from a little
too much CGI, shaky-cam and quick cuts making visibility difficult and
a bit muddled, still doesn't take away from the film's overall
entertainment value.

The plot is not overly complicated but it IS there and it is not
completely dumbed-down and insulting to the viewers intellect. A
perfect balance of action, story and humour make A-team a brilliant and
successful up-dated film adaption that successfully brings The A-team
into the new millennium yet doesn't tread over the original.

Thankfully the best bits aren't shown in the trailers and the film is
most deserving of at least one more sequel!

I pity the fool who doesn't enjoy this film!
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard that they were making a movie of The A-Team, I fully
expected a Thanksgiving-size turkey. I was never a massive fan of the
TV series, which despite the running theme of good guys versus the
government always felt like a smug, popular-culture expression of
Ronald Reagan's politics. Just because you can remember the
catchphrases doesn't mean it was any good.

The TV show was formulaic down to having exactly the same stunt - a car
spinning over sideways - in every episode. Why bother making a film of
it? Since there have been few enjoyable remakes of old American TV
shows - only the Ben Stiller / Owen Wilson parody of Starsky and Hutch
springs to mind - the omens were not good.

The film version of The A-Team is not merely over-the-top. It's in a
geostationary orbit 22,000 miles above over-the-top. Ridiculous does
not even begin to describe it.

There's the way 'Hannibal' Smith (Liam Neeson), having been beaten half
to death by crooked Mexican cops, avoids being shot with his own gun by
the forward thinking of taking the firing pin out - and then uses said
firing pin to free himself from his handcuffs which he then puts on the
two nasty-looking dogs sent to finish him off. And then says 'I love it
when a plan comes together!'

Then there's the way Smith randomly chances upon another former US Army
Ranger, BA Baracus (played by cage-fighting star Quinton 'Rampage'
Jackson) - who has just had to beat up an entire gang of Mexican
smugglers to get his beloved GMC van back - in the middle of the
Mexican desert. The two of them go off to rescue Smith's partner,
'Faceman' Peck (Bradley Cooper), crashing into the gang's camp just as
'Face' is about to be burned alive (although he's still laughing and
joking about it all, naturally).

The crew then dash off to a local mental asylum where they are told
that the best pilot (and biggest lunatic ever), Captain HM 'Howling
Mad' Murdock, can be found. Having sprung Murdock, the four make their
escape in a hospital chopper which is then chased by the nutty Mexicans
in a helicopter gunship. Having used a variety of ludicrous means to
evade the gunship's missiles - including stalling their chopper to
avoid heatseekers - the fearless four cross into US airspace where a
jet fighter is conveniently ready to shoot down the Mexicans.

None of these facts are spoilers. All of these things happen before the
opening titles.

The A-Team is like Hollywood Action Movie Lasagne: it's a layer of
cliché, followed by a layer of implausibility, followed by another
layer of cliché and so on, with the whole lot finished off with a
sickly rich layer of computer-generated special effects. There's one
spectacular set-piece after another. If anything, The A-Team tries just
too damned hard to blow us away, to the point where the possibility
that anything that is displayed on screen could actually happen becomes
inconceivable.

While they were blowing all that money on CGI, they clearly didn't
bother spending much on make-up. Liam Neeson's grey hair looks like it
was done by the people responsible for the 'before' shots on those Just
For Men adverts. In other words, it's every bit as implausible as the
rest of the film.

And just when the implausibility ratings couldn't get any higher, the
woman pursuing our friendly rogues, far from looking like The Freak
from Prisoner Cell Block H (as you might expect a ball-breaking
military chick to look), wears high heels, a sleek black leather coat
and looks like Jessica Biel. (Oh, hang on, it is Jessica Biel.)

And yet, after watching half an hour of this utter nonsense, I noticed
something else: I hadn't stopped smiling.

As one high-octane, tongue-in-cheek incident followed another, I found
myself muttering 'No way!' as frequently as BA Baracus was grunting
'This is bullshit, man!'. In other words, a lot. Because the truth is
that The A-Team is fun. Just leave your reality check at the door.

Not that action movies should ever try to be kitchen-sink dramas. In
fact, this is an everything-but-the-kitchen-sink drama. So it's one
'gag' - in the old Hollywood sense - after another. It's as much an
homage to Buster Keaton, albeit a very loud, violent homage, as it is
to the original A-Team TV show. And at least it doesn't take itself as
seriously as Mission Impossible.

It's also got 'FRANCHISE' stamped all over it. At the very least,
expect a sequel. For those familiar with the TV series, where Hannibal,
Face, BA and Murdock are soldiers of fortune in the Los Angeles
underground, this film is like a prequel: it ends where the TV series
begins.

And don't worry if don't catch it at the cinema. If you've got a
problem, and you know where to find a Blockbuster, you can hire The A-
Team. On DVD, in a month or two, at least.
<|_=00=_|>
Amusing return to the classic series created by Stephen J Cannell ,
also here as producer along with Ridley Scott , with an appropriate
cast and overwhelming C.G. special effects . Excellent homage to the
entertaining episodes with a complex intrigue but following the canon
and overemphasis on usual characterization and special effects . A new
entry of the mythical series of ¨A Team¨ , this time written and
directed by Joe Carnahan , the creator of the successful film titled
"Smokin's aces" and many others ; here is developed the first meeting
between Annibal Smith , and his pals . While on the lam, they became
heroes for hire, working as good-guy vigilantes around the US or the
world . At the end of their stint in Irak Col. John "Hannibal" Smith (
Liam Neeson in the role of the deceased George Peppard) and his team
were framed for stealing some plates (which they had done, but under
orders). The operative group is sent on an assignment to recover plates
for printing 100 dollar bills that were utilized to print a billion
dollars. After making the mission and returning to the base their
commanding General (Gerald McRaney) is murdered in a blow up and the
plates are robbed and they are condemned to an US and Germany military
prison . They escaped and went on the run, pursued by Captain , later
degraded Lieutenant Sosa (Jessica Biel). Hannibal Smith was their chief
and an expert at disguises . Templeton Faceman (Bradley Cooper
substituting Dirk Benedict) was the team's con artist and lady's man .
M.A. Baracus (Quinton Rampage Jackson replacing Mr T) with extreme
panic to flight , he was their mechanic , but also took care of mayhem
and intimidation . The final member of the Team , "Howling Mad" Murdock
(Sharlto Copley similar role to Dwight Schulz), was an expert but nutty
pilot, and a certified lunatic , but they broke him out of a mental
hospital whenever they needed him for a dangerous mission. 

This entertaining story is concentrated on known characters as well as
thrill-packed action and special effects although there're numerous of
that too . The movie has unstopped ,tension, comedy , emotion, suspense
and sensational scenarios like is customary development of the
franchise . Spectacular , exciting , fast-paced , thrilling this is the
description of this new cinematic outing of ¨A Team¨ , film that
reinvents the saga through a perfect pulse narrative that does not give
a second of rest to the spectator who is trapped for two hours approx.
in a genuine visual spectacle . Humor , thrills , several agreeable
characters and trademark effects abound and will please the series
enthusiasts such as the neophyte .

The agreeable acting convinces , especially the leader Liam Neeson ,
the sympathetic Bradley Cooper and Brian Bloom in a super-villain role
, while other players also make a nice work as Patrick Wilson and the
gorgeous Jessica Biel. And of course , special appearance in brief
cameos from Dwight Schulz and Dirk Benedict , though doesn't appear Mr.
T. The moving final amazing the spectator , in which the stirring and
spectacular scenes create a perfect union that terminates with an
ending that leaves you stuck in the armchair facing the formidable
spectacle as a privileged witness . It is the rebirth of the series, an
enjoyable homage , the start of a new scenario . Fans of the series may
find much to love , but others will be bewildered by excessive and
breathtaking situations . Thrilling soundtrack by Alan Silvestri , he
composes an impressive musical accompaniment to the film . Furthermore
a colorful and glimmer cinematography by Mario Fiore . Suitable for
family viewing , it's an entertaining adventure which young and old men
will enjoy . Fans of the series will find very bemusing and fun . It is
amusing to watch and aficionados are sure to love it , resulting to be
one of the best adaptations based on TV series of the last times.
