
Overall I enjoyed the movie. There have been too many recent films
about the Tudors and Elizabeth in particular, but this film looks good
and it keeps you entertained. It's set at the time of the Spanish
Armada in 1588. Elizabeth is shown as tough, smart, and married to her
country. She also suffers from bouts of insecurity and irrational
jealousies. This film is more hagiographic and melodramatic than its
predecessor. 

The film tends to ignore the facts when they get in the way of the
story. Elizabeth was 55 at the time of the Spanish Armada and she was
never a looker. Blanchett's Queen is youngish and attractive.
Blanchett's acting performance is powerful and impressive but also a
bit stagy. The way the politics of the time are depicted is a bit too
black and white. The Spanish look grim and are dressed in dark colors.
They are portrayed as crazy, religious zealots. Spain had a right to be
upset at English privateers / pirates who attacked their ships and
stole their gold. Mary, Queen of Scots is shown as a dowdy, schemer who
disliked Elizabeth. The reality was that Mary was a pretty bimbo who
made bad choices when it came to men.

Parts of the film veer too much towards soap-opera. Sir Walter Raleigh
(Clive Owen)becomes a favorite, but when Bess Throckmorton, one of the
Queen's ladies-in-waiting and Raleigh get secretly married, Elizabeth
becomes jealous and behaves badly. Later, Raleigh and Francis Drake are
shown defeating the Spanish at sea. In reality Raleigh was looking
after the coastal defenses in the South West of England and didn't
marry Throckmorton until 1591. The real Raleigh was a brilliant man:
soldier, explorer, writer, poet and courtier and probably deserves his
own film. The film is good fun but it's simplistic, cartoon history.
<|_=00=_|>
This rates as high as it does for me because of the cinematography. It
is dazzling and Blanchett can't be denied, but "Elizabeth: The Golden
Age" is like a chick-flick with explosions plus costumes, super hair,
and loud, intrusive music. The result is faux epic.

My wife summed it up well as we left the theater: "I feel like I've
just flipped through a coffee table picture book for two hours and
somebody turned up the stereo." History wrote this plot but Nicholson
and Hirst thought they could do better. They couldn't, or certainly
didn't. Freshmen composition classes come up with better stuff. Trite,
forced, predictable. Did they even run this by an expert in English
history? You gotta wonder. The script is oozing with 21st century mores
and clichés. It made me think (during the movie, mind you) of the way
Dutch painters depicted Homer and Aristotle in the garb of 17th century
Holland. Are we that dumb? Sir Walter Raleigh is a caricature and Sir
Francis Drake, never properly introduced, was a throwaway. Geoffrey
Rush is wasted as Walsingham. Come to think of it, nearly everybody is
wasted. Every single character is underdeveloped, with the possible
exception of the title characterpossible exception.

"Golden Age" set the target high and then turned and fired in the
opposite direction. Realizing the script had missed, Director tried to
make up for it with window dressing. Substance would have served this
queen better. With the colon in the title, I almost expected to see
Bruce Willis saving the day.

You can see why "Golden Age" came out in October because it's not going
to compete for Oscars in categories that anybody cares about. With all
the budget they had for this movie, you'd Universal could have found
better writers.
<|_=00=_|>
Another Elizabeth I film? Why not? The Elizabethan Era's, indeed, a
fascinating periods in English history - an era when England was
relatively well off compared to other nations  even if its wealth was
unevenly distributed! 

Director Kapur interestingly puts dramatic and chilling appeal and
emphasis on Elizabeth's Golden Age to reveal her personality and
struggles to keep her throne and save her country from falling into the
hands of conspirators and invaders. Does he give his audience any
insight into the Golden Age when English Literature, poetry, music,
theater, architecture, scientific and technological advancement, and
exploration expansion flourished? Nope. His film does offer some
interesting hints that women did enjoy the freedom of movement (ah ha,
even a queen's closest and dearest lady-in-waiting could play cuckold
to her mistress' favorite man!) and that competing interests and
ambitions of colonial powers made it easy for ambitious sailors to
legalize acts of piracy! Serious crimes could well resort in severe
tortures. Director Kapur does stress that she was the "peoples" queen!

The story continues from where Cate Blanchett's young, flighty, and
reckless Elizabeth made her finale masculine-like entrance in the
prequel, "Elizabeth", as the Virgin Queen with her face heavily laced
with the 'white-as-milke' make-up - an image of a queen ready to lead
her citizens.

At a deliberate slow pacing, the introduction with its scenes,
characters and their dialog prepare the audience to receive Elizabeth
as the Queen with a more focused, more rigid personality, in charge of
hers and her country's destinies. Yep, a woman with ready suitors, but
offering a sense that she is wedded to her Empire! She seems very
philosophical in her ideals and yet we see her court filled with sorts
of political characters. Elizabeth, then, is seen with roving eyes,
easily distracted by the presence of attractive men. Indeed, it's a
crafty way to introduce Elizabeth before Director Kapur plunges his
audience into a compelling tale of treachery, assassination attempts
and romance that affects the Virgin Queen during her reign. 

The film carries a mix of intriguing historical facts, legends and
myths in ways that one can only expect history teachers of English
public schools to apply to make their lessons interesting, or hear from
gossipy English peers, from history classes, wanting to impress their
friends with stranger-than-fiction tidbits and hearsay of those times.
This film does promise a refreshing tale to grasp! There are those
tongue-in-cheek whims and antics that mischievously provoke thoughts of
the political and religious changing tides of modern times. Director
Kapur has certainly avoided the creation of a history epic, based on
dull, dry substance! 

Blanchett is magnificent in her strange, enigmatic and
multi-dimensional character, constantly faced with the challenges of
her foes plotting and counter-plotting to take her down at her Court,
in her government, and, from foreign lands. She's seen as almost as a
brutal ruler at times and on her consistent guard in her determination
to hold on to her throne, alternating between her seemingly vicious
whims, her heroism and tangled romantic emotions! Yet, she comes off
gracefully as a person who has the heart to forgive. Oh yes, there's
also that scene that prompts me to think of Joan of Arc! It's not hard
to want to cheer for the Queen in her determination to fight against
the religious intolerance, barbarism and fundamentalism of the Spanish
Inquisition. Spain was a very powerful Catholic foe and the Church did
try to destroy this Protestant Queen and to restore England back to
Catholism! 

The battle in the calm-to-storm scene is exhilarating to watch. We also
witness her struggles in her attempt to balance her duties to her
country and her vulnerability to infatuation and tempestuous
relationship. Clive Owens superbly handles his role as the dashing
Walter Raleigh  indeed, one of the most colorful and controversial
character of the times and of whom English history has spun numerous
tales about. This film also charts Raleigh's colonizing dreams, his
involvement in a love triangle, his sweeping in and out of the Queen's
favor and his immense dislike for Catholics - that did historically
determine his fate beyond this film's exposure. Geoffrey Rush returns
as the loyal and polished spy master, Sir Walsingham and historically
seen as the man who attracted conspiracy theories. Hhhmh, was he
responsible for the birth of modern espionage? He's truly fascinating
to watch. This film has a great stellar cast of actors who don't
disappoint. There's so much on-screen chemistry oozing out between
characters in this film. Oh yes, the villains are so agitating and
annoying to the core. 

The background music soundtracks come across as dramatically bold and
nail-biting, poignant at times, and emotionally mystifying at others-
appropriately matching the many guises, moods and whims of the Virgin
Queen  the cold and strong and always majestic personality vs .her
sentimentally vulnerable images - and also effectively reinforce the
moments of gripping horrors of the events witnessed or felt. The sounds
do have an interesting mix. Some of the scenes really deliver visual
cinematic effects that remind me of the paintings of the period. The
somber settings work beautifully to support and give intensity to the
horrifying scenes and moments. Just love the way the sets and
backgrounds are crafted to avoid overshadowing the characters. Oh yes,
I love the color schemes presented in this movie to bring credibility
to the scenes! The naval battle and Sir Walters' underwater escapade
are so fabulously and stunningly crafted - without going over-the-board
with extreme flashy special effects and colors to highlight the events. 

I was captivated from beginning to end. Oh yes, this film does
entertain, sending me on a delightfully exciting spell-bound journey in
my attempt to separate legend and myths from historical facts. Oh yes,
this film will make English history fun to browse all over again. Yep,
I was absolutely entertained!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe the poor reviews "Elizebeth: The Golden Age" has
received.

While it may be true the film is not historically correct, most of us
do not go to the movies for a history lesson. We go to be entertained.
On that basis, this film is a winner. It has romance, intrigue and
betrayal. It is basically a melodrama.

The photography is great, although sometimes the director gets carried
away with the camera movements. The orchestral score in fine, although
it is overwhelming at times. The acting is absolutely first rate.

I thought that "Elizebeth: The Golden Age" was more entertaining than
any of the "Pirates of the Carribian" movies. If you want an
entertaining movie that is geared more towards adults than children,
then you should check the movie out.
<|_=00=_|>
With a dream cast, a fascinating subject, and a budget larger than a
pirate's booty, this film could have been great. But the chance is
missed.

(Pros:) The cast is definitely the film's biggest asset. Cate Blanchett
is incredibly brilliant even at times that the script fails to provide
her with a worthy line. Her powerful performance is utterly
captivating. Clive Owen's Walter Raleigh is as dashing as a man can be.
As the man who charmed the Queen out of her heart and wits and dared to
tell her not to act like a fool, Owen's Raleigh is daring at times,
vulnerable at others, but always compelling and spectacular. Geoffrey
Rush makes the best out of the very little that he's given to work with
and Abbie Cornish and Samantha Morton are each great in their parts.

It's also worth a mention that the costumes and the locations are
spectacular, paired with a few moments of good story-telling (only if
those moments would last all through the film) they make a few
absolutely extraordinary scenes. Another great characteristic of this
film is it's subtlety, the emotions that are there yet not talked
about, the wishes, feelings, disappointments, desires, and fears that
are only hinted are the best parts of an otherwise disappointing
story-telling.

(Cons:) Sloppy editing, campy scenes, and poor writing are what mostly
hurts the film. Unfortunately the film's precious time is spent on
side-stories that could have easily been discarded, and
consequentially, not enough time is spent on the development of the
main story. Everything that happens after Sir Walter meets Elizabeth
seems forced. Vague at times, the film seems to be in rush to hit
certain notes at certain times. Elizabeth meets Walter and a few lines
later she's mad about him, so is Bess and so on. The audience is not
given the chance to feel or take in what's really happening, not even
enough time to get to know the characters let alone feel what they are
going through. At times, it seemed as though many of the scenes were
cut short in the editing room and had lost their essence in the
process. (If that's the case, lets hope the DVD includes the director's
cut.) 

The film could have benefited from more climax and action (the battle
is barely touched), (other than a few great scenes) most of the story
is told through conversations in closed areas. More than anything, the
writers leaned on poetic lines to deliver their story. Also, for all
it's subtlety, the film takes sides so obviously that it hurts any
chances it had at reaching some level of realism or fairness. For
instance, not only Phillip of Spain is utterly evil, he's one
ridiculous, petty, dim character. 

Overall, the cast certainly makes the experience worthwhile, and as
long as one does not expect absolute greatness or historical accuracy,
this film can be great entertainment for most.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie approaches the brink of becoming another corny, hokey
Hollywood travesty but recovers to become an incredibly powerful and
unique portrayal of Elizabeth I and her closest advisers and the
political situation in Western Europe in the late 16th century. Cate
Blanchett offers a masterful, powerful and provocative portrayal of the
Virgin Queen which unlike most Hollywood portrayals of historical
personages does not devolve into a laughable caricature. Elizabeth has
feelings too and cares about ALL of her people, not just those who are
of her religious persuasion. Also, the movie offers a credible
portrayal of Elizabeth's relationship with her cousin Mary as well as a
credible and comprehensible explanation of King Philip's decision to go
to war against England. Whether Spain in 1585 was the most powerful
country in the world as the movie purports is a matter for debate but
the fact that there was a time in history when Spain actually wanted to
invade England is amazing and is a story in itself. This movie is worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Cate Blanchett reprises her role as the Virgin Queen, Elizabeth I, and
is the film's greatest highlight. She exudes power, strength and
influence in portraying the 16th century monarch. Her commanding
presence on the screen really gives the majestic qualities that the
real queen certainly had. At the same time, she gives us a personal
glance inside the woman's heart, where she has suppressed from public
view an inner vulnerability and melancholy. Elizabeth certainly endured
many sorrows, and this portrayal gives us a glance inside the woman's
who carried all this upon her shoulders, and is credited with raising
England to prominent status on the world stage.

In addition to Blanchett, the supporting cast all turn in superior
work. The sets, costuming, and period speech are all mastered well,
creating a true feel for the era being depicted. Although many of the
people and events are real, a few liberties have been taken apparently
to spice up the drama. Such fictionalizing probably wasn't necessary;
enough happened during this queen's rule to make the story interesting
without it. One example: the flashy Sir Walter Raleigh was indeed a
favorite of the queen, but this movie puts them in a romantic triangle
that just gets in the way of other things going on. Also, Raleigh,
better known as an explorer, was not the hero in the battle with the
Spanish Armada.

Blanchett shines when she delivers the famous speech to the troops on
the eve of the Spanish invasion. But even she is burdened by the
director's preoccupation with Elizabeth as a suffering angst-filled
woman facing middle-age with less bravery than facing the world's most
powerful fleet at that time. We get endless views of her taking her wig
off in secret, and staring at a mirror. The first time this device is
used is fine to get the point across of her hopeless situation of never
taking a husband (and the slow advance of time having its way), but we
see her looking like a shriveled ghost in too many such scenes, and
it's way overdone in this context. Her "real" hair sans the wig looks
like an inebriated Edward Scissorhands was her hairdresser, and her
pale complexion looks like somebody pasted white-out all over her face.

Those few mistakes notwithstanding, this is a fine biopic with superior
acting by Blanchett, and is recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I hadn't heard too much about this film, but had seen the posters for
it, so I gave it a shot. And after leaving the theatre I really wasn't
sure what to say about it.

There's a lot of good stuff in this film, but there're some pitfalls as
well. On the plus side the sets and costumes are magnificent. A great
deal of care and love when into the art direction to bring us an
Elizabethan renaissance film, replete with court intrigue and foreign
emissaries who threaten invasion because of high seas thievery courtesy
Clive Owen's character. Visually this film is very lush and impressive,
though somewhat confining at times. We're never really shown
Elizabethan England, just the "important parts" that are salient to the
story.

And, as Elizabeth's favorite playwright would say, "there's the rub".
And by this I mean that the film is a bit all over the place. It's a
costume drama, it's a romance, it's a period political thriller, it's a
military epic, and so forth. It even skids the fantasy genre with some
of the fancy camera work that was done. But, all in all, the film's
primary thrust is to try and grab hold of all of these genres, and tie
them together into some kind of cohesive and suscint manner.

The romance, the intrigue, the sisterly emotions, the rivalry between
matriarchs, and the "battle scene" hearken back to a time when
Hollywood used to crank out these kinds of movies with some regularity.
But the context between those films and "Elizabeth: The Golden Age" are
nearly day and night, even though both are striving for a high water
mark in historical drama.

I thought "Elizabeth: The Golden Age" was technically a competent
production. In fact, given the difficulties there must have been
getting some of the shots I'll give it high marks as a pure production
effort. But as a film I simply found it to be a touch too ambitious,
and over-indulgent near the end.

That's not to say that I didn't enjoy a lot of the film, because I did.
Blanchet's Elizabeth is a strong woman; full of zest, energy, and a bit
of anger, which she levels at her adversaries. But she's also a chief
of state, internationalist, and, of course, the queen of England. She
doesn't wear several hats. She wears a crown. But even so, and this is
where the film falls a bit short, she doesn't demonstrate a cohesive
ability to command all. She shows she's in charge, but doesn't act like
she's in charge until near the end.

The film was geared and aimed at a female audience (a thing which I had
not expected), and so a lot of the energy is directed at that audience,
with the appropriate emotional flourishes. Combined with some so-so CGI
for the action sequences (and a horse with a perm which almost had me
laughing), one wonders where the film was headed. Elizabeth didn't save
England with her emotional power alone, and yet this is the gist of the
film. It's a real let down in this regard.

The film is a mixed blessing. There's a lot of decent acting, and some
exceptional performances by the leads. Married to a rather extravagant
art director to bring to life palace, throne room, chambers, and
galleons at sea, and one can easily see that this was meant to be a top
notch production. But some of the logical loopholes where Blanchet's
character is concerned conspire with some of the story loopholes to
hold back a better film.

As a guy all I can say is that it's not something I'd watch again, and
I'm not too sure I'd recommend it to any female audiences. But, if you
don't mind your period dramas skirting the edge of high kamp, then
splurge on a ticket, and see what "Elizabeth: The Golden Age" is all
about.
<|_=00=_|>
We had been looking forward to seeing this film - and made a point of
re-watching the original 'Elizabeth' from 1998 a week before making the
trip to the theater.

I will say that this film is technically beautiful in the grand
cinematic style which was once associated with the epic films from the
bygone era of the Hollywood studios with it's fantastic costuming and
sets. 

But - I am sad to say that this film was a disappointment. It suffers
from numerous over-dramatic sequences which rely much too heavily on
symbolism. After all, how many times & ways should one be forced to
view Cate Blanchett posed in an angelic persona?

Unfortunately, as one sits through this film, one must wonder what the
writers & director were thinking. It is obvious that someone was unsure
of which direction(s) they wished to steer this film toward - romance,
war epic, drama,etc. 

The awkwardness of this film projected a feeling that various pages of
the script must have been stuck together as it continues along - giving
it a feel that can only be described as disjointed and forced.

The problems with this film seem to be caused by a combination of a
weak script, bad direction, and bad editing which resulted in this
short-changed follow-up to the well-done original 1998 epic of
'Elizabeth'. 

Cate Blanchett and the entire cast are good actors & do not disappoint
in their character portrayals. But sadly, this film was not up to the
performances of these fine actors and we left the theater wondering why
the director, the editors, and screenwriters all failed to do their
jobs.
<|_=00=_|>
Most of the time it's the casting that makes a film and keeps us coming
back for more. This is the case for "The Golden Age", the sequel to
"Elizabeth", a film that turned Cate Blanchett into a star, introducing
her considerable talents to the masses. In "The Golden Age", Blanchett
is given more screen time and the opportunity to show the range she is
capable of, giving us a portrayal that is complex, rich, exquisite, and
ultimately glorious.

As a matter of fact, it's hard to imagine anyone else, having the power
this actress is capable of showing on screen. She carries the film, and
it's her ability to interact with such varied characters that gives the
film its strength. It all depends on the chemistry between her and the
talented actors that support her, particularly, Clive Owen's rogue
pirate.

"The Golden Age" depicts another critical moment in the life of the
Virgin Queen, as she must find the strength in herself to gather the
support and strength she needs to save England from a brutal military
attack by the Spanish Armada, the most powerful navy at the time.
Elizabeth must deal with family issues, ethical issues, sentimental
turmoil, another self-confidence crisis, and much more intrigue and
attacks from both the Spaniards and their supporters on both sides of
the ocean.

There are scenes in this film that will be remembered as perfect
examples of what cinema can achieve, as the camera frames key
characters during critical times in the story... Most impressive are
all the scenes in which Cate participates, as she is able to show the
amazing nature of a woman who endured much criticism and political
turmoil and eventually transformed herself and her nation into one of
the most powerful empires in the world.

There are interesting analogies in the film, particularly as Elizabeth
adopts one life over another and allows her spirit to soar, vanquishing
any negative impulses and nurture the surrogate child that her country
becomes. According to the film, she finds herself incapable of finding
an equal mate because of special circumstances, and then she
rediscovers the strength that she has always possessed and turns into
the leader everyone will respect, follow, and somehow adore.

"The Golden Age" is a very handsome film, with superb production, and
some spectacular costumes, exquisitely worn by Ms. Blanchett. It's
definitely on its way to becoming a classic, a proud example of what
some might call an intimate epic.
