
The answer to the obvious question hovering around Jon Favreau's latest
action blockbuster is yes, "Cowboys & Aliens" is as ridiculous as the
title sounds. Yet blame doesn't quite belong on Favreau's shoulders or
that of star Daniel Craig or the rest of the cast; rather, the failure
of this alien-infested Western results from the domino effect of the
countless studios and producers who put their faith (and money) in a
concept rather than a story.

To be fair, I know nothing of the Platinum Studios comic by Scott
Mitchell Rosenberg, but it couldn't have been all that good if all the
hottest screenwriters in Hollywood couldn't whip together a plot worth
a damn. The duos behind "Iron Man" and "Star Trek" along with "Lost"
writer Damon Lindelof all took cracks at the screenplay and an earlier
treatment from another pair of "it" writers who wrote next month's
"Conan the Barbarian" was discarded. Frankly, criticism of "Cowboys &
Aliens" all stems from a story with lackluster characters equipped with
cliché motivations. Despite some cool aliens, the action doesn't offer
anything unique enough to counter that we've no reason to care.

Craig stars as Jake Lonergan, a stoic outlaw in Arizona sometime in the
late 19th Century who wakes up with no memory and some metal device on
his wrist. When he arrives in the town of Absolution, the sheriff
discovers he's wanted and attempts to ship him off for a reward. That's
when the aliens attack, bombing the town and roping up locals before
flying off into the night. Lonergan's bracelet activates as a weapon
and suddenly he's the only one capable of defeating these things. He
joins a rescue party led by a grumpy Civil War vet named Dolarhyde
(Harrison Ford) and they all set off to find out what happened to their
loved ones.

The script introduces characters willy-nilly and provides little
satisfactory explanation for anything that happens. The story paints
Lonergan as a quiet badass, but one who has flashes of some woman he
loved. Because his past slowly unravels with nothing revelatory to show
for it as the film wears on, it's tough to care much or even see him as
capable of romantic feelings. Regardless, a woman named Ella (Olivia
Wilde) keeps approaching him with questions he doesn't have the answers
to and she evolves into a love interest for nothing but the sake of it.
Sam Rockwell has little to no bearing on the film other than serving an
example of an otherwise peaceful man who will do whatever it takes to
get his wife back. He's a waste in the role. As for Ford, he just gets
on screen and acts grumpy and impatient. We've seen everyone on board
do so much better. Did these folks not read the script? Probably not
considering the number of drafts alone.

Worst of all, the script thinks we will care; after all, this is
"Cowboys & Frickin' Aliens!" In the final sequence, suddenly all these
supporting characters have little moments together out of seemingly
thin air. What are supposed to be moments in the story tying up
relationship subplots between characters end up as reminders that these
relationships and subplots even existed in the first place.
Consequently, the film's pivotal moments result not in hearts beating,
but eyes rolling.

In fairness, Favreau shows his adeptness from an action perspective
once again in this film. The movie looks good if nothing else with
strong visual effects and a strong concept team behind the aliens and
related technology. The genre experiment generally works from a tonal
perspective, an obstacle that certainly stood in Favreau's path. The
film feels like a Western and one in which aliens could feasibly exist,
so no problems due to identity crisis.

Yet the film never provides a single reason to justify why it had to be
a story about cowboys and aliens. In that sense, the movie results in
nothing more than several studios and producers thinking we'd simply be
interested in a fusion of a shoot-em-up Western with an alien invasion.
All involved failed to ask the one critical question when making a film
based on a concept: "is there a good story here?" No, there's not.
Despite every ounce of you wanting to find a reason to care about what
happens, none arrives. As such, "Cowboys & Aliens" offers watchable but
lifeless entertainment.

~Steven C

Visit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
Wow i enjoyed this, partially due to the negative reviews here on IMDb
(thanks guys) and in part due to Harrison Ford clearly having more fun
with a character than he has in a long time.

Its not a perfect film and there are questions that could be asked of
some of the plot points, but the questions, such as they are, would
require irrelevant exposition, which would only serve to hobble the
pace of what is essentially a "Men (and Woman) on a mission" movie. 

What really stands out for me were the scenes at the beginning of the
film, Jon Favreau introduces the characters, locations and situations
in such a manner that when the real threat manifests itself, despite
the films title, it catches you as off guard as the characters are.

The cast are all great, some nice character work from Clancy Brown and
Keith Carradine. Daniel Craig brings the stoic, no nonsense aspects of
his Bond to Jake and as i said earlier Harrison Ford obviously relishes
the role of Dolarhyde.

It reminds me of the films i used to enjoy about twenty years ago, that
had lively pace, but were'nt frantic. The effects are special, but not
overblown or overwhelming to the point where they become the focus
thereby obviating any interest in the characters stories. 

I don't want to talk about the story too much and spoil it, i'd just
urge you to go and watch it, because this movie is an honest attempt to
try something a little different. Its not Superheroes, its not a TV
show, its not a line of toys and its not cute animated whatevers. Its
an unlikely, but successful fusion of two genres to produce a film with
humour, drama, action and a refreshing amount of practical effects
work. Give it a chance, i really was surprised how much i enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Old West, an amnesic stranger awakes in the middle of the desert
wounded in the belly with a bracelet in one of his wrists. He is
attacked by thieves but defeats them. He rides a horse of one outlaw
and heads to a former mining town, where the local preacher treats him. 

Then he sees the youth Percy Dolarhyde (Paul Dano), who is the son of
the powerful farmer Woodrow Dolarhyde (Harrison Ford), bullying with
the bar owner Doc (Sam Rockwell) and the other locals. When Percy
provokes the stranger, he reacts and beats up on Percy. The local
Sheriff John Taggart (Keith Carradine) arrests Percy and he finds that
the stranger is the wanted Jake Lonergan (Daniel Craig). The sheriff
returns to the bar with his deputies to arrest Jake, but he subdues the
men. However he is hit on his back by the mysterious Ella Swenson
(Olivia Wilde) and he faints. Jake is arrested and when Sheriff Taggart
is ready to take Jake and Percy in a coach to deliver them to a Federal
Marshall, Woodrow arrives with his men ready to protect his son. But
they are attacked by spacecrafts that abducts several dwellers,
including Percy, Doc's wife and the sheriff. Woodrow organizes a posse
to seek out the kidnapped people in a dangerous journey against an
advanced race of aliens. Meanwhile Jake Lonergan has glimpses of his
past life and they learn that someone among them may help them in the
fight against the invaders. 

"Cowboys & Aliens" is a very entertaining film with a battle between
cowboys and Indians against alien invaders. The result is a funny
adventure that blends western with sci-fi. Unfortunately Harrison Ford
is histrionic and cliché in the role of the ambiguous Colonel. Daniel
Craig is great, as usual and Olivia Wilde is very beautiful and
charming. I had low expectations with "Cowboys & Aliens" and in the end
I had lots of fun. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Cowboys & Aliens"

Note: On 18 June 2015, I saw this movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
Did someone put a gun to Jon Favreau's head and ask him to make this
boring 'western'??

Harrison Ford, Daniel Craig, one of the most fun directors around
today, and a title containing both Cowboys and Aliens - this was
definitely the most awaited summer movie for me!! And yet, somehow, the
'Curse of The Modern Day Spielberg' managed to defy all expectations
and deliver a total damp squib. The story's weak (why capture the
humans? why come to earth of all planets to mine for gold? how can one
stolen gun destroy an entire operation?), the treatment confused (the
whole Olivia Wilde arc), the actors under-utilized (somebody please
stop the brutal destruction of everything that Harrison Ford has come
to mean to moviegoers), and the action and thrills extremely
underwhelming.

Please do not go to see this movie. More than the time that you'll
never get back, it'll spoil James Bond, Indy, Cowboys, Westerns and
Movie Aliens for you forever. 

To think that I missed work to catch the first, early morning opening
show. So disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Its 1873; New Mexico Territory; an  Outlaw and a Cattle Rancher must
put aside their differences to stop Alien invaders hellbent on
experimenting on humans and stripping the land of its gold.

There's something kooky about the title Cowboys and Aliens,
B-movie-ish, yet, exciting, enticing and genius. However, even with the
star talents including Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford, with the
striking Olivia Wilde and excellent Sam Rockwell Cowboys and Aliens
still falls short of expectations. The script is bland, every effort
has gone into developing the two main leads but at a cost of the rest
of the characters, the basic story and plot.  

The special and practical effects are well integrated and executed but
while fantastic they are nothing that hasn't been seen before,
reminiscent of District 9, Independence Day to name a few. Considering
director's Jon Favreau fun and exciting Iron-man outings this offering
is less satisfying. It's not the mishmash of classic genres that's the
problem, it's the lazy, predicable story telling. 

The films opening is strong and intriguing, building up to the tension
of Ford's character Colonel Woodrow Dolarhyde meeting with Craig's
Jake; its Jones meets Bond, perfect. Both are excellent giving weight
to the proceedings. Horses are flipped, guns and gauntlets go wild,
aliens leap and stomp on cowboys. But after the first few alien attacks
the film wavers onto familiar territory. Although it has a fabulous
cast beneath its hat and sweeping, breathtaking Western landscapes
under it's belt - it buckles under it's own weight. 

Even with its somewhat serious tone it's not brave enough to explore
or commit to its own themes leaving it underdeveloped. But it also
omits much needed fun leaving the whole film unseasoned and as empty as
the plains of Arizona. Debatably, flop Wild Wild West (1999) infused
the sci-fi and Western genre more successfully. 

Cowboys and Aliens is entertaining, it looks good, has a superb cast
but it's painfully predictable and just not that great.
<|_=00=_|>
Now this is a summer movie with a unique premise that's not only out
there, but works so well that it makes me say "That was BAD ASS."
Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the next heavyweight action film
of the summer: Cowboys & Aliens.

Okay let's get the obvious out of the way: YES, cowboys and aliens in
the same movie sounds like an absurd premise that would only exist in
the mind of adolescent boy. And yet, this child-like premise is
immediately forgotten when you watch surprisingly deep characters
struggle through a dangerous situation with overwhelming odds against
them. And this film can get DARK in both terms of the fights happening
on screen as well as the gravity of the situation. Instead of some
silly-mindless action, you get a film that will make you grow a beard
sitting through its 2-hour run time (which flies by fast). And don't
worry ladies, you get plenty of eye candy too. 

The film stars Daniel Craig (flawlessly using his American accent) as
Jake Lonergan, a cowboy stranded in the middle of the Wild West with
only a strangle bracelet on his wrist and no recollection of who he is
or how he got there. After a series of dodging mishaps in the nearby
town of Absolution, he is corned by Elle (played by Olivia Wilde) and
hard-as-nails rancher Han Solo, I mean Colonel Dolarhyde (played by
Harrison Ford). An alien invasion then commences and lays waste to
Absolution while abducting several of its citizens. Lonergan must then
join forces with Dolarhyde and the strange woman to stop the alien
threat and discover who he really is.

The first twenty minutes of the film play like any Westerner you've
seen: Craig plays the gruff loner invoking the spirit of Eastwood,
Harrison Ford plays the gruff boss-man of a bunch of thugs, and the
usual Western archetypes are present throughout the cast. It's when the
alien invasion begins that these archetypes are immediately thrown out
the window and you find surprisingly deep characters. Lonergan is a
wanted man with a brutal past but the allure of a lost love drives him
to learn more about her fate. Harrison Ford is playing the best we've
seen him in years (yes even better than Indiana Jones) as a former
colonel who has seen the horrors of war and he uses his gruff demeanor
to inspire confidence in lesser men. Both Craig and Ford bring their A
game to this film as they pull of convincingly deep cowboys. 

The rest of the cast turns in solid performances. The gorgeous Olivia
Wilde plays a mysterious woman who knows more than she's telling, but
you can't resist caring about her. Sam Worthington plays a meek bar
tender out to find his abducted wife and Noah Ringer plays a scared boy
searching for his grandfather. And yes, these two minor side characters
develop their arcs as boys become men. Everyone else does a great job
in this setting as well. Okay, so now I've praised the story and the
deep characters, but is the action any good?

Oh. Hell. Yes. The fist fights between humans are brutal and visceral.
Horseback chase scenes are made more awesome with alien ships hunting
the heroes down. And the aliens? Looking damn fine. The computer
generated images aren't glaringly obvious here with the aliens looking
bulky, hideous, and monstrous. They are the perfect band of bad guys.
And unlike other alien invasion films, you get to see humans get into
vicious fights with the extraterrestrials. Limbs are blown off, Guns
blow holes into alien bodies. Aliens eat humans right in front of their
comrades. All of it is exceptionally well-done and reminds you that
this is most definitely NOT a kids movie (PG-13 rating be damned). 

The best part? The fights mean something. You care what happens to
Lonerman, Dolarhyde, Elle, Doc, and Emmett. When characters die, the
persons close to them EMOTE. The characters who die are characters YOU
grow attached to. You WANT their deaths avenged. You are made known in
none-uncertain-terms that the situation is dire. And that's what
elevates Cowboys & Aliens from a merely good film to a GREAT film.

Unique action movies are hard to come by and big budget films with
great characters are harder still to find. Cowboys & Aliens finds a way
to merge the Western and Alien Invasion genres into something fun,
entertaining, and meaningful. Characters don't get any deeper and
action doesn't get any harder than you'll find here. A fantastic summer
movie that I highly recommend everyone to check out in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
Some months ago, I read the graphic novel Cowboys & Aliens...and it
honestly bored me to tears. Leaving the innovative concept described on
the title aside, the story only offers hollow characters, sci-fi
clichés badly combined with western clichés, and an excessively light
tone which does not make any justice to the potential from that
combination of genres. Paradoxically, that disappointment improved my
expectations for the film Cowboys & Aliens. After all, Hollywood tends
to change the novels it adapts pretty much, and I thought that some
"expert" screenwriters would fix the many fails from the story. And
even though Cowboys & Aliens improved a few elements from the book, it
also preserved the characters without any substance, the arbitrary
narrative and the inconsistent behavior from the aliens.

The idea of brave cowboys facing an alien invasion is interesting, but
I think it works better as a concept than as an execution. The crash
between advanced extraterrestrial technology and primitive weapons from
19th century would lead to an unilateral massacre which would make the
film to conclude in its first 10 minutes; so, it is necessary to find
the way to give the advantage to the cowboys so that the battle is more
credible and there is suspense about who the winner will be.
Unfortunately, co-screenwriters Roberto Orci, Alex Kurtzman, Damon
Lindelof, Mark Fergus and Hawk Ostby did not find a logical way to
solve the problem, and as a consequence, they employ many traps,
excessive inconsistencies and absolutely ridiculous notions in order to
give the cowboys the opportunity to defend themselves from the
invaders. Without deepening too much in order not to get into the
spoilers field, I will mention that, despite their technology and
destructive potential, the favorite method of combat from the aliens
is...body-to-body fights. And besides, their vulnerability changes
according to the screenplay's convenience; when the presence of
suspense is necessary, the aliens are practically indestructible; but
whenever the movie decides to introduce a "cool" scene, it is easy to
kill them with just one shot, an Indian spear, or a small knife.

And because of that, the movie constantly "pulled me out" with its
coincidences and forced narrative short-cuts. On the positive side, the
special effects created by Industrial Light & Magic are competent. As
for the human element, Harrison Ford brings an adequate performance,
while on the other side of the coin, Daniel Craig feels bland and
antipathetic as the anti-hero. By the way, I am going to propose an
hypothesis; Sam Rockwell and Clancy Brown interpret two supporting
roles in this film, but they are too short and inconsequential;
however, I think Cowboys & Aliens would have been a better movie with
that duet in the leading roles; Rockwell is one of the best
contemporary actors, and he has more cowboy "looks" than Craig;
besides, his less athletic physique would make the challenges the
character faces more interesting. As for Brown, he would have been
absolutely perfect as the cacique from the village. Sure, none of them
would have attracted as much spectators as Craig and Ford, but
anyway...I am sure this movie would have been better if that fantasy
was true.

In conclusion, I cannot recommend Cowboys & Aliens, because I found it
insipid, irritating, and the worst thing of all, boring. Instead of
wasting your time with this film, I recommend you three very
entertaining "western/fantasy" hybrids: The Burrowers (cowboys against
subway humanoids -which also includes Brown in the cast!-), Dead Birds
(cowboys against ghosts) and Tremors (modern cowboys against crawling
"graboids"). Cowboys & Aliens might surpass them in budget, but it is
not even remotely to their levels of ingenuity and amusement.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in with little expectations on this one. I expected Cowboys &
Aliens and thats all I got. What more could I ask for right? I could
ask for story and a point this story, which this so called movie didn't
deliver. I wasn't disappointed with the cowboys, but the aliens were
just ridiculous with little intelligence. The movie never explained why
they were on Earth or what the reason for aliens wanting gold was
about.There was no reason for this movie to be made other than to take
my money and dupe people like me who want something new and different
than the conventional western or sci-fi movie. This movie was just two
hours of people riding around on horses. Loved the cast but i hope they
got paid well for being in a less than worthy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
With a hokey name like "Cowboys and Aliens", you're really not supposed
to expect much more than Cowboys and Aliens, fighting.

And very little of the movie even deals with that.

Being PG-13, it couldn't go all-out in a faithful depiction of the Old
West, but it seems they only really pushed it so as to show off Olivia
Wilde's buttcrack and a quick shot of a a guy with a big hole shot
through the chest with an alien weapon, as everything else is virtually
squeaky-clean, not a hint of racism or sexism, grit or grime, and an
utterly blasè attitude from everyone but Sam Rockwell as the bartender
"Doc".

As the review in my local newspaper said, very little is devoted to
"why" with regards to the alien, and far too much "why" with regards to
Daniel Craig's Jake Lonergan, played so stony and cold you don't give a
damn about any of his problems.

The characters are horribly one-dimensional and predictable, and there
were so many instances in the film where not only me, but a large group
of people, burst out laughing. And not when the movie was being funny.

Not going to spoil it, but the big "revelation" moment with Olivia
Wilde's character caused some very loud and noticeable derisive
laughter from many of us in the theater, and the moment with the alien
that Jake had first met having a final standoff with him at the end was
so hackneyed, it provoked chitters and groans.

For a movie that felt so long and, by concept, seemed to be aiming for
something big, it sure felt small, like a Syfy original movie with some
big-name actors in it.

But the absolute biggest plothole involves the aliens interacting with
the people. Not only is it never explained WHY the aliens are randomly
abducting people, but as it turns out, their ultimate reason for coming
to Earth, and their goal, not only has little to nothing to do with
humans, but considering their technology, they could EASILY achieve
without EVER interacting with the humans at all! Considering how a
clichè'd Hollywood flick like this ends with the good guys winning,
these aliens could've saved themselves a lot of trouble by not looking
to pick a fight with the natives for no reason. But then we wouldn't
have this big dumb mess we call a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In the beginning, there's a cowboy movie. A man from nowhere, Daniel
Craig, wakes up with a device on his wrist  then he's surrounded by
three rough necks  followed by a quick, neat fight straight out of the
opening scene of SILVERADO. He wanders into a small town, where a few
more characters are set-up, and it feels like the kind of Western we
love to watch, perhaps even something by Sergio Leone  that's the
attempt, anyway. We meet the town brat, overplayed by Paul Dano, whose
father, Harrison Ford, is a cattle baron with lots of money. All these
and more folks are introduced, so many it's hard to keep track.

Then the aliens, in speedy vessels with lasers, and even lassos,
attack: computer animation meets the scant Western setting. When a
posse is formed, and the cowboys venture to kill the formidable foes,
the pace flags. But it's when Craig's gorgeous love interest,
supposedly the town whore, becomes "enlightened" by Indians and knows
everything about the aliens... spouting exposition like directions on a
new stove... that the film sinks beneath the surface of banality,
completely losing its rough and tumble origins to a science-fiction
melodrama.

Daniel Craig, attempting the iconic Clint Eastwood Man With No Name, is
so tiny he's lost in his big hat. He juts his lips and hisses each
line, and while this seems to work for James Bond, his performance as a
mysterious stranger doesn't hold water. Harrison Ford, with a gruff,
world-weary voice and a bitter hatred for mankind, seems to be doing a
performance or imitation. The aliens, free from their ships and
computer animated to the hilt, are too quick and dangerous to be worthy
foes  thus Craig's wristband gun comes to play, making the other
riders (and way too many of them) useless.

The only involving performance is by Clancy Brown as a wise, tough
preacher, but alas, he makes but a quarter of the trip: one that starts
with a quick bang and ends with a very long whimper. So here's one
"spoiler" to sum things up  the girl eventually turns into a
hummingbird, an image more stupid than the convoluted back story of our
hero and the aliens, which is still completely unclear.

For More Interviews: http://cultfilmfreakreviews.blogspot.com
