
people keep talking about how awful "step up" was, or how it was such a
waste of money. but now here are my two cents. it was, in fact, a good
movie. the dancing was FABULOUS, and even though the acting could have
improved, this movie was nothing short of amazing. the music was catchy
and hot, and there was just enough romance in it to make it cute but
not gross or sleazy. it had literally EVERYTHING you could ask for in a
movie: romance, drama, comedy, and it was even slightly scary at some
parts, too. Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan did a great job. their
dancing, along with everyone else's, was phenomenal. when i left the
movie, i was actually inspired to be a dancer (even though i never will
be.) the main reason people are turning down this movie is because of
the acting. sure, the acting could have been better, but this movie was
focusing on the DANCING. obviously you have to be a good actor to be in
a movie, but the dancing was the main focus of this film. and i
personally think the dancing was great. i couldn't ask for it to be
better. this movie is definitely worth seeing, whether you're into
hip-hop or not.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was really good. I'll admit the acting may not
have been to it's full potential.. but I still thought it was pretty
good. The movie is based on dancing and overall I thought the technique
was very good. The talent displayed in this movie is extraordinary. The
movie has romance, comedy, tragedy, and nearly everything else you
would want in a good movie. The music in this movie is also really
good. I would say this movie is well worth the money I spent. Step Up
is inspirational and was everything I was expecting it to be. I'd
highly recommend seeing it. If you enjoyed the movie Save The Last
Dance this is probably a good movie for you. I found this movie to be
very uplifting.
<|_=00=_|>
Choreographer and now director Anne Fletcher hits the mother lode with
this gem of a dance flick! Having painfully seen similar dance-themed
teen movies in the past (Take the Lead, Save the Last Dance, etc.),
Step Up does justice to its genre by not pulling any stops in
delivering a truly enjoyable movie. Hindi nagtipid sa pasikat.

Unlike similar movies where the audience agonizingly waits through
scene after scene of boredom for a grand dance finale (which usually
fails to enthrall anyway), Step Up treats the audience to several
impressive, memorable sequences thoughtfully scattered throughout the
movie. Finally, we are entertained by a dance flick where the leads
(Jenna Dewan and Channing Tatum) are both beautiful to watch, have good
chemistry (enough to sustain the kilig factor) and can really deliver
the moves.

Dewan is a superb dancer; she has a fabulously fit body, not the
anorexic ballerina type, and she dons her outfits exceptionally well
for someone who's only 5'3". It was also amazing to watch such a tall,
gorgeous man like Tatum move the way he does (it must help that the boy
knows his Kung Fu!). His deadpan facial expression makes his line
deliveries unexpectedly funny. The supporting cast also amply sustains
the rest of the story. Step Up churns out enough high points that you
pardon its hiccuppy subplots and scene-stealing extras.
<|_=00=_|>
What a wonderful surprise to find such a terrific film of dance and
music in STEP UP and the actors/dancers were out of this world.
Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan are magic on the screen and the music is
sensational. My friend, Alia, from UCLA, had raved about this film and
wanted me to see it, and I am so glad that I did. I found not only the
music and dancing, but the story set in the jungle of a big city of
young black men and a young white man struggling to survive and come up
with fulfilling lives, to be a journey that is true to the lives of so
many young men and women today in metropolitan cities in the USA.

Duane Adler and Melissa Rosenberg have created a film in STEP UP that
just hits your heart and soul with the character development created
through the actors music and dance, and the sets and costumes which fit
each character. I didn't want this film to end, but the last scene is
just the one you wanted to see and feel. With STEP UP, you have a
strong story, incredible music, wonderful young actors in a diverse
world, and the hope that now their young lives can really begin. Loved
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
While several portions of this movie were textbook cliché, I thoroughly
enjoyed every second of it. Usually I don't bother with mainstream,
commercial movies that are so obviously and unabashedly manufactured to
sell to a teenage audience, but I had seen Channing Tatum in She's the
Man (another movie that I was hesitant to see, but didn't regret it
afterward), and thought he was absolutely gorgeous! Step Up would not
have been as good as it was without him. He made even some of the more
awkward lines of the script sound original and I really enjoyed
watching him bust a move. Several parts were genuinely amusing and
heart-warming despite the well-worn story of a bad boy from the wrong
side of the tracks who falls in love with the uptight rich dancer.
Overall, it was pure fluffy entertainment, like Save the Last Dirty
Dancing. Just don't go in expecting much or analyze it too deeply and
you'll enjoy it as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
In Baltimore, the troublemaker and street dancer Tyler Gage (Channing
Tatum) lives with his foster parents in an Afro-American lower class
neighborhood. His best friends are Mac Carter (Damaine Radcliff) and
his little brother Skinny Carter (De'Shawn Washington) and they use to
hang around together, going to parties and stealing cars. After being
expelled of a party, the trio breaks in the Maryland School of Arts and
commits vandalism, destroying the stage. Tyler is arrested and
sentenced to 200 hours of community service in the school and Director
Gordon (Rachel Griffiths) assigns him to help the janitor cleaning the
place. One afternoon, the ballet dancer Nora Clark (Jenna Dewan) sees
Tyler dancing in the parking area and when her partner Andrew (Tim
Lacatena) has a strain and Tyler offers to help her in the
choreography, she accepts the offer; they rehearsal and become close to
each other while Tyler becomes friend of the students Miles Darby
(Mario) and Lucy Avila (Drew Sidora). When Andrew returns, Tyler that
is known for quitting everything he starts gives up dancing and leaves
Nora alone. After an incident, Tyler has to decide to follow his dream
or return to his life of rebel loser. 

"Step Up" was a wonderful and delightful surprise for me. The
heartwarming romantic story shows a perfect chemistry between Channing
Tatum and Jenna Dewan, supported by a magnificent cast and awesome
songs and choreographies of dance. There are also drama and tragedy,
funny moments and I recalled Alan Parker's "Fame" and "Center Stage"
with the students following their dreams in an art school. The
characters are nice, the actors and actresses are excellent and I have
really loved this movie. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Ela Dança, Eu Danço" ("She Dances, I Dance")
<|_=00=_|>
You've seen it all  feel-good story of deprived, delinquent kid
finding the meaning of life, dedicated effort culminating in an upbeat
dance finale, rich-girl-poor-guy routine, and a whole bunch of familiar
situations. But, if the dance and music are good, you'll tend to forget
the improbable, unlikely, illogical, contrived story and plot. Given
the lame script, top choreographer Anne Fletcher's first crack at
directing didn't come off too badly, partly because of the wise use of
very short scenes. As to the dance routines, with her credentials, you
wouldn't expect anything less than good, and the movie does deliver in
that department. The stimulating fusion of hip hop and ballet is well
synchronized with fusion in the music. While the attention would
obviously be on the showcase number that the protagonists are
developing, I also like one particular scene at a gig, when the two
sidekicks sing on stage while the two leads do their thing on the dance
floor. This scene has the beauty of exciting spontaneity not seen
elsewhere in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Going into the movie with the right expectations, I somewhat liked this
movie. Like most reviewers who have seen this movie, I fully agree that
the plot was razor thin, clichéd, and I could predict every plot twist
from the very beginning of the movie. But, the dancing sequences were
VERY well done, and I really enjoyed the fusion of classical and
hip-hop dance (both which I enjoy watching). The music/soundtrack of
the movie was also very good, which made the "drama" scenes more
bearable. The leads (Jenna Dewan and Channing Tatum) were OK as actors,
but their dancing throughout the movie was impressive and mesmerizing.

All in all, a movie worth watching if you like to watch good dance
sequences, and this movie is MUCH MUCH MUCH better than "You Got
Served" in terms of the plot and drama. Then again, that doesn't say
much, does it? =P
<|_=00=_|>
Step Up is a fair dance film about some kids that get their big
performance break. The film is average in every way with little more
for the viewer. A jock fights external prejudices to become a dancer
with an accomplished partner and a teach who sees something special.
The acting was fine, but the dialog and directing had little to add to
overcoming a predictable story. None the less you still feel quite good
about the outcome of the film. There were some dark scenes and some
typical generalizations about dancers that went a little overboard.
This is a class B+ film with moderate continuity errors and dialog
mishaps. The scenery was good and the characters held true to life. It
is worth the watch if you like that kind of film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie couldn't make me feel better. The actors brought it alive,
and it was good overall. The songs made me feel like I was in the
movie. It must've been really fun to make this and then watch your
progress at the end. I've never taken dance or anything, but watching
this movie inspired me. I'd love to take that kind of dance. It's
modern ballet right? Well anyways, if you haven't seen this yet, you
should. It'll bring you alive. I was just talking about seeing it
before but now.. I wanna try it. It seems like you can make anything
happen with a friend by your side and somebody to guide you through. Oh
and by the way, I give props to the actors. They were greatt.
