
The world of competitive spelling bees has always been a hard subject
to dramatize. It is undoubtedly a fascinating subject to behold, one
which requires large amounts of both intelligence and strategy. But the
fact of the matter is that audiences aren't drawn to them. Most would
rather venture out to see an inspirational football drama rather than
watch children spell for two hours. This is why the subject has been so
rarely covered in film. Two recent examples, the documentary Spellbound
and the drama Bee Season, have tried to connect with the average viewer
- both receiving mediocre box office returns. Hopefully this trend will
cease with the release of Akeelah And The Bee, written and directed by
newcomer Doug Atchison. This tale of a young girl winning against all
odds is one of the year's biggest gems - a heartfelt and moving film
about the champion in us all.

The story follows young Akeelah Anderson (Keke Palmer), a shy 11-year
old seventh grader who people think of as undeniably average. Her
mother Tanya (Angela Bassett) barely notices she is there, her
classmates dislike her and her teachers find her incredibly
unambitious. She is only able to find solace with her caring older
brother Devon (Lee Thompson Young) and best friend Georgia (Sahara
Garey). But everything changes one fateful day when Akeelah
unexpectedly wins her school's spelling bee. Located in a rough
neighborhood in South Los Angeles, her principal (Curtis Armstrong)
sees this as an opportunity for some positive publicity for the
struggling school. Because of this, he enlists the help of famed
teacher Dr. Joshua Larabee (Laurence Fishburne) to help Akeelah with
her studies.

At first Akeelah is stubborn, lacking the motivation to work hard
enough to move to the next level. But as the months pass, her bond with
Larabee grows along with her ambition. As she moves through the
regionals and then the state bee - she soon finds herself heading to
Washington, D.C. to compete in the national spelling bee. With her
entire neighborhood behind her, Akeelah must decide if she has what it
takes to win.

This film has received much advanced publicity for some of its
credentials. It is the first film to be co-distributed by Starbucks
Entertainment, a new division of the famed coffeehouse. It is also
well-known because Atchison received the prestigious Nicholl Fellowship
to put this film in production. This award, given by the AMPAS, is
presented to new screenwriters who display much promise. Upon seeing
the film, it is evident why Atchison received this award. Akeelah And
The Bee greatly benefits from the excellent script, which takes careful
time to develop the characters - allowing you to become very attached
to them by the end of the film. It also shows the true intensity of the
actual competition, including a nail-biting final act as intense as any
sports film. Atchison also succeeds in terms of direction, using many
interesting shots throughout the running time. The film moves at a fast
pace but never feels rushed - keeping the audience completely engrossed
in the story.

The cast on display here is made up of talented veterans and promising
new talent. Laurence Fishburne is great as Larabee, delivering one of
his finest performances to date. His character has many layers to his
persona, first appearing aloof and haughty but later revealing himself
as a caring and sympathetic man with a dark past. Fishburne dives into
this role and makes the character completely believable. Angela Bassett
is also strong here as Tanya, and tackles each scene with charisma and
strength. But the real heart and soul of the picture, and the reason
that it is such a success, is Keke Palmer's breakout performance. The
multi-layered performance is sure to be one of the year's best - and it
is easily the strongest performance by a child actor since Haley Joel
Osment's famed turn in The Sixth Sense. She fills the role with lots of
energy, but also displays strong dramatic chops and excels in her
dramatic scenes - creating a lovable and completely adorable character.
Anyone who doesn't fall in love with Palmer as Akeelah must have a
heart of stone.

Overall, this is easily the best family film of the year so far and one
of the strongest inspirational tales in years. While it may have some
unavoidable clich√©s, Akeelah And The Bee succeeds due to a strong
script and excellent performances, especially from standout Keke
Palmer. There's only one word that comes to mind when summing up this
film as a whole: G-r-e-a-t! 8/10 (A-)
<|_=00=_|>
This morning a saw a screening of "Akeelah and the Bee". I am 55 years
of age and will be sending movie tickets to both my daughters age 24
and 26 so they can cry as did. What a wonderful family movie....... I
thought they stopped making movies like this many years ago. This movie
instilled the fact their is hope in the movie industry. Take your
friends and definitely your family. It will bring you all together and
even show adults that we can still all learn lessons in life!! This
movie will definitely be added to my DVD collection once it is
released. I recommend this movie to everyone!!

Murray David Collins
<|_=00=_|>
I went to an advance screening and found "Akeelah" to be so much more
than I expected. I sat in the theater dabbing tears from eyes
throughout the showing. The emotional weight, story-telling approach
and female perspective in "Akeelah" is much like that of POETIC JUSTICE
(also set in South Central, LA).

"Akeelah" has GREAT cast performances. As a mentor to Akeelah, Laurence
Fishburne continuously reminded me of his nurturing position in BOYZ N
THE HOOD - I thought of FINDING FORRESTER and THE MAN WITHOUT A FACE as
well. Fishburne looks spectacular with Angela Bassett who knows all the
right expressions and vocal tones to have the powerful realism she does
in her role as a fearful parent in South Central. Keke Palmer, she is
definitely on the rise... pretty girl too. Several strong subplots come
about in the first half of "Akeelah." They deal with the painful past
of Dr. Larabee (Fishburne), lack of time and attention from Akeelah's
overworked mother (Bassett), a teetering relationship between Akeelah
and her best friend Georgia (Sahara Garey), and the problems of one of
Akeelah's brothers who spends his time out late on the streets of South
Central.

Apart from the dramatic mood of "Akeelah," there's an excellent amount
of comedy. Many of the jokes are in the things that aren't said but
seen (watch the father of Akeelah's major opponent). The most hilarious
part of the film, IMO, involves the loyalty of Akeelah's friend Javier
(J.R. Villarreal) - you'll know the scene when you see it.

From a more objective standpoint, I felt that many of the scene
cuts/transitions in "Akeelah" weren't too clean. I forget all about it
though when I reflect on the emotional montages that center around
Akeelah, her family and the people of her community. If you remember
the standout poem ("our deepest fear...") recited in COACH CARTER, you
might feel that "Akeelah" twice makes trite use of it. However,
different lines of the poem are read this time around. The pacing of
"Akeelah" is good, especially when it comes to how Akeelah learns and
advances in the National Spelling Bee. "Akeelah" makes the competition
look and feel suspenseful at times, but more importantly, it focuses on
the rewards found by those who believe in themselves. Kids in the
theater I went to were spelling aloud from the very first scene.

The ending -- I won't spoil it -- combines the pieces of humor, triumph
and sadness in "Akeelah" in one of the most beautiful finishes I've
ever seen, felt and heard from a movie. You MUST go see AKEELAH AND THE
BEE!! You'll leave the theater highly inspired by the best word given
in the film ("L-O-V-E").
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Akeelah and the Bee' Keke Palmer plays Akeelah Anderson, a bright
11 year old who just wants to fit in. Despite her intelligence, she is
not a good student. She is unmotivated and often misses class. Since
the death of her father five years ago, she only seems content when she
imagines playing Scrabble with him. Nevertheless, her talent for
spelling gives her an opportunity to shine.

This is on of the better movies I have seen this year. This
heart-warming and inspirational story is about a girl who, despite all
the hardships at home, finds a way to utilize her skill at Scrabble.
With a little help from her coach (Laurence Fishburne) she not only
learns a lot about language, but she learns how to appreciate the
environment around her. She finds out that she is rich in ways she did
not realize.

It is very difficult to find fault with this movie, there is something
in it for everyone (even a few surprises). Both Angela Bassett and
Laurence Fishburne are awesome. I was particularly impressed with Keke
Palmer. I would compare it to 'The Karate Kid' meets 'Finding
Forrester'.
<|_=00=_|>
Akeelah and the Bee is an excellent movie, and it deserves universal
recognition for the unbelievably powerful message, storyline, and theme
evident throughout. First of all, Starbucks's co-operation with
Laurence Fishburne to produce the movie was a great move on everybody's
part. And though many critics may say that Akeelah and the Bee was just
another "inspirational film," lacking the originality and pungency
necessary for good cinema, the people with such a belief just don't get
it. Like Rudy (1993), Akeelah and the Bee is most certainly original in
that the story is plausible, meaningful, and very emotional. The only
real difference between the two films is that whereas Rudy is based on
a true story, Akeelah and the Bee is completely fictional. Also, the
fact that all of the real protagonists in the film are minorities
brings an incredible new level to the silver screen. Very few recently
released movies feature an African-American female--a youth, no
less--in the role of the main character. And for viewers to see
Akeelah--as well as her mother, her siblings, her best friend, her
coach, and her other two spelling-bee companions: all of whom are
minorities--achieve such great heights is most definitely
"inspirational," and in the right sense. Even for the movie-viewer
whose favorites are full of action, violence, and gore, Akeelah and the
Bee strikes the heart directly. And for those who like the
tear-jerkers, no better movie exists than this one. Without question,
this film is one of the best I have seen in a long time, and many will
agree that it is an exceptional piece of work. I would honestly be
shocked if someone really believed in his or her mind that Akeelah and
the Bee "was a waste of time."
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Akeelah Anderson (Keke Palmer) is an 11-year-old girl in
south Los Angeles, with a love for words. Spelling words was a way for
her to connect to her father who was killed when she was six. Akeelah
is a bright student, but she has been skipping class and is barely
passing. Akeelah's principal is about to put her in detention when he
persuades her to enter the Crenshaw school's spelling bee. Akeelah wins
the spelling-bee and now she can go to the state contest. Dr. Larabee
(Laurence Fishburne), a college professor and former national
spelling-bee contestant, enters the picture. The principal has asked
Dr. Larabee to help coach Akeelah. At first, Akeelah is stubborn and
hardheaded that she doesn't need any help to win the next spelling-bee.
However, Dr. Larabee shows Akeelah that she doesn't know all the words
to win. During the summer, Dr. Larabee is a tough taskmaster teaching
Akeelah as much as he can. He then gives her 5,000 new words to learn
and tells her to do it on her own. With the help of the whole
neighborhood, Akeelah learns all the words, and makes it to the
national spelling-bee in Washington D.C.

(My Comment) This is one movie the whole family can see. The story of
Akeelah is an inspirational and heart-warming one that was made for all
ages. The storyline of an underdog 11 year-old girl living with her
working mother, single mother sister, and gang member brother, making
it big in the world of the national spelling-bee is a classic. The film
has humor, charm, success, a positive image, drama, and a happy ending
which we all like to see in a movie. The movie shows you all the hard
work and pressure it takes for someone to actually compete in the
national spelling-bee. The film will keep your attention the whole
time, and you will clap at the end. Go see this movie; it is worth your
time. (Lions Gate Films, Run time 1:52, Rated PG)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Akeelah and the Bee was a film in which not only inspired me as an
individual, but specifically a young Black male individual. Finally, a
film in which Black males running around shooting guns and sexing/
mistreating women. A film in which shows a young Black girl coming from
an urban neighborhood, raised by a single mother, but still motivated
and inspired to use her gift of spelling to the highest degree. During
my time watching this film: my emotions were overwhelmed with a sense
of positive energy in which inspired me to be motivated to continue
doing my best in life: not settling for excuses for where I grew up,
the failures I encountered and taking every bit of my negative past to
strengthen my positive future. Finally a film where an African American
student is demonstrated as brilliant and intelligent!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not black and don't care this was a great movie. To me it was not a
movie about a black kid but a kid who just happened to be black. A kid
in a bad neighborhood and school compliments of my generation. I hope
that the movie can overcome being in the shadow of MI3. Because it
deserves it. This movie has heart. It had great acting, a real plot and
it has a point. People were cheering and laughing applauding and crying
in the theater. Way to go keep it up. Give us some more please. There
are some fresh new faces in this move and I hope to see more of them.
If you knew me you would know I don't get excited very easily. When I
see a movie like this I feel that maybe there is hope for the movie
industry. GO SEE IT. You'll feel better for it. Take the kids. Call
your friends.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw a packed screening at the Pan African Film Festival. There
were so many people there that some had to be turned away. The best
parts were the interactions between the characters of Akeelah and
Javier, a young Mexican boy who comes from an affluent family. Their
friendship and team work in helping each other do their best in the
Spelling Bee is a great example for young black and browns here in Los
Angeles, especially with all the racial fighting in the schools and
prisons.

It's a good movie for everyone to see, especially if you're a word
freak like me.
<|_=00=_|>
Akeelah and the Bee is a great movie for the family. It's long overdue
to see a movie about the African-American community that does not
center around pimps, rapping or drugs in any way. I don't say this
without reservation. As a African American aspiring actor, I realize
that those are the parts that are written about and for us. That what
makes this movie special, it shows that we as a people can rally behind
a good cause. I can only hope that I will one day have the opportunity
to showcase my talent in a feature such as this. The young actress
portraying the title character is a great find. I can see she will be
around for quite a while. Lawrence Fishborne did a wonderful job with
this film. He became more than just a talent, but a wonderful producer
as well. Be sure to catch this on DVD!!!

A Must see for all!!!!!
