
I can't understand what everyone is fussing about this film for. I saw
it on the IMAX 3D and I honestly thought it was hilarious. I caught
myself laughing out loud on many occasions. Seriously, this film is not
"violent" by any means. To me, I really felt relieved to see some humor
and scenes similar to the old Looney Tunes cartoons that used to be
considered great, but are now considered evil and horrible.

I took my 4 year old daughter to see this movie as well, and she
absolutely loved it. I have no reservations about any of the content in
this movie, and I would highly recommend it to anyone with children.
Any of the "adult" humor was tastefully done and, honestly how many
small kids are gonna pick up it? The animation was well done, the cast
was great, and there were some very creative action scenes in this
movie. I wish all of these politically correct hypocrites would stop
trying to psychoanalyze every damn film that comes out and bash it into
the ground! Bottom line: This movie is outstanding, and it is
incredibly funny!!!! GO SEE IT!
<|_=00=_|>
I was very much looking forward to seeing Open Season on it's first
weekend, but I was a bit worried when I saw only a 5.5 on IMDb, because
normally, most of the users are right about these movies. But my
friends and I still wanted to see this fun looking picture, so we saw
it tonight and may I say that I am surprised by you IMDb users who
didn't like this film, everyone is entitled to an opinion, I agree. But
seriously, how could you not like this film? It has amazing animation,
fun characters, and hilarious jokes for kids as well as adults! 

After a bear, Boog, saves a deer, Elliot, from becoming another trophy
for an evil hunter, Shaw, they become instant friends. But since Boog
is a pampered bear, Elliot wants in on the room service, but ends up
getting Boog in some trouble and back into the woods, together they
decide to get back to civilization, trying their best to avoid open
season from other hunters as well as getting away from Shaw. My
favorite character is the porcupine, he was just so cute, "Buddy!".
Especially, the scene where the dame explodes causing a huge wave of
water to splash over the woods destroying everything and moving all the
animals away from their safe place and the porcupine sees Boog and
Elliot and just smiles and happily screams "Buddy!" while getting
swooped up into the wave as well! It was so funny! 

Seriously, people, learn to have some fun, I know this was a kid's
movie, but my friends and I had a great time watching this movie. This
is one of the best movies I have seen of 2006, hopefully, the rating
will go up. To those who loved this movie, thank you for having a good
sense of humor, to those who didn't like the movie, just give it
another shot, please! :D 

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
The kids loved it, and I was not bored, and that is more than what you
usually end up with these days. The 3D IMAX is truly amazing, if you
are already paying the theater admission then IMAX is definitely the
way to go. The story is not original, to say the least, but they know
it and keep it short. I liked the voice talent, although this "the
wiener dog has a German accent" thing gets old fast. A lot of people
seem to hate this one with a vengeance (look at the distribution of the
votes with all those people giving 1), but it still gets a 5.5 average,
so that gives you a pretty good idea. This is no Incredibles by any
means, but the two little girls I took enjoyed it a heck of a lot more
than Cars. Mostly harmless family fun with a few bathroom jokes thrown
in: enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I'd have to agree with the critics on this one. When you release so
many CGI movies with talking animals, there is a point at which
mediocrity becomes common place. Open Season is no exception.

It seems to me that a lot of these movies released this past year
revolve around this basic formula. 1) A plot involving talking animals.
2) Hire celebrities to do the voice acting (need at least one
comedian). 3) Have a main character and an annoying obnoxious sidekick.
4) Have some simple plot in which the main characters are on a journey
and have to reach from point A to point B.

When watching Open Season, I couldn't help but notice the parallels to
Shrek. Boog (the bear) = Shrek, and Elliot (the deer) = Donkey. Need
voice actors? Easy, let's hire two comedians (Mike Myers & Eddie Murphy
vs Martin Lawrence & Ashton Kutcher). Plot? Well, let's just make them
stranded somewhere and they have to reach from point A to point B. In
this case, from the forest to Boog's old home. Of course, I could make
the same case with Finding Nemo (comedians Albert Brooks & Ellen
DeGeneres, main character and sidekick, travel from point A to point B
plot).

Now don't get me wrong, I love Shrek and Finding Nemo. The problem is
that when you have two great movies like these released previously, you
can't help but notice how much Open Season recycles from previous
movies. Open Season lacks any emotional charm or comedic originality.
Another problem I had is that a lot of the jokes are based on clich√©s
and stereotypes (Scottish squirrels? Male deers = high school jocks?
Ducks = French resistance? Female skunks = black women?).

If there's any redeeming value in this film, it would be the fact that
I watched it in IMAX 3D. It looks amazing. Wearing the 3D glasses, I
could see each individual patch of fur on Boog's back and the
characters literally came out from the screen.

Is this movie good for the kids? Yes. It had some laughs in it and it
does bring about a moral message about the preservation of wildlife.
It's a good way to kill and hour and a half. But don't expect to see
anything new or original in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed so much through this movie I know I will have to see it twice
because I had to have missed some of the funny parts. Very clean, which
was surprising since Lawrence was in it, but so worth the time I spent
watching it. It breaks your heart when Beth has to leave Boog in the
woods but to see him overcome all the obstacles thrown in his path, is
very amusing from the eyes of an animal. Aston Kutcher was hilarious as
Eliot. I didn't realize he could be so funny and amusing. This movie I
highly recommend to anyone with children regardless of their ages, if
you want to spend time with your children in a clean environment. I
intend to go back and take my neighbors children to see it also.
<|_=00=_|>
Matin Lawrence and Ashton Kutcher rock as the big bear "Boog" and the
comic sidekick deer "Elliot". Unfortunately, the story was bland and
the jokes were only mildly funny, so it will not be one of the best
kids movies you're going to see this year. The "Laugh out loud" index
was maybe a 5-10 (laughs per movie). "Over the Hedge" was closer to
20-30 for comparative purposes. "Boog" and "Elliot" were well played.
The Scottish squirrels, Beavers and Rabbits were funny, but the rest of
the characters didn't make much of an impression. Although somewhat
entertaining, it was quickly forgotten after we left the theater (with
the exception of the Austin Powers like shadow scene behind the
curtain). If you need to take the kids out to a movie, this is funny
enough to make it worthwhile, but don't get your expectations up to
high.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, this year alone probably saw a record number of talking animal
animations, with countless of punchlines filled with pop culture
references, and big name stars attached to the projects, that it's
about time we give the genre a good break, rather than churning them
out continuously with more misses than hits.

And Open Season, probably the last one on offer this year from a
Hollywood studio, suffers from this glut, unfortunately. Heck, with so
much similarities between the movies, you can even spot a familiarity
or two from the story lines, taking a a leaf from one of the earlier
flop - The Wild, in having one of its stars here, part of a popular
animal attraction, and another part from Over The Hedge, where a group
of animals must band together for survival and a fight against
adversity.

The leads for Open Season are a domesticated grizzly bear who has its
own teddy bear soft toy (don't ask), and a mule-deer with one half of
its horn sawn off. An unlikely pairing, a "loser and a loserer", voiced
by Martin Lawrence and Ashton Kutcher respectively. It's strange that
there's a reversal of voice roles here, as Lawrence's Boog the Bear is
uptight, while Kutcher's Elliot the deer is built in the same old wise
cracking mould as Eddie Murphy's Mushu in Mulan, or Donkey in Shrek. In
other words, Boog frequently gets punk'd by Elliot.

It's one of those recycled plots about loneliness, and having two
misfits finding themselves in each other, relying on strengths from the
other party in order to survive in new environments. A misadventure
sees Boog go back to the wild, with Elliot in tow, and the two have to
find a way to get back to civilization where Boog belongs. Along the
way they encounter other critters in the woods of course, paving the
way for some comedy and more recycled themes of bullies and the likes.
Don't believe the trailers though, as the war between animals and
humans, doesn't take up much screen time.

The sad part though, is that there aren't many funny moments to
distract you from the rehashed story lines and subplots, but then
again, it's a made for children movie. As always, there are some of the
weaker characters which get used as punching bags, and here, this role
belonged to the mindless rabbits, which some might find irritatingly
adorable. My vote however goes to the nasty Irish-accented squirrels,
defenders of their pine trees with their nuts, and in second place,
those insane beavers.

At least the animals don't break out singing songs every now and then,
though there are some nice musical numbers that went along with the
movie. But all in all, this movie isn't as entertaining as, say, Over
The Hedge, and neither is it as bad as The Wild. But don't say I didn't
warn you if you find this a tad too boring.

Wait for the DVD, and rent it. Oei!
<|_=00=_|>
Predictable kiddie fare with okay animation and some good throwaway
moments here and there.

Nothing we haven't seen before, but mildly entertaining and not without
its charms. But the overall air of second hand fodder remains intact
all through its running time. There's no real heart to all the
cartoonish goings-on.

The character work is lackadaisical and the bland songs should've been
omitted.

Some of the sidekick critters are funny, though.

5 out of 10 paranoid hunters
<|_=00=_|>
Way beyond Elmer Fudd vs. Bugs Bunny (I keep reading reviews saying
"been there, done that")! Not only was it a very cute, entertaining
flick, but what a wonderful message regarding animals - anti-hunting,
respect their territory and don't try to domesticate what is not meant
to be domesticated, even a plug for spay/neuter when they point out Mr.
Weenie is "fixed". The animation was good - aside from one or two odd
looking creatures (the little doe), I thought they were cute. And the
campiness of the scenes added a little something different. All the
actors who did voices did a terrific job. I am not a Martin Lawrence
fan, but he rocked as Boog. And Ashton as Elliot was hysterical. It's
no "Finding Nemo" or "Toy Story" but for a cute flick one afternoon,
it's better than expected. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
What's a 'unihorn' you may ask? Well, it's a deer that only has one
antler, of course. And you'll only see one in the new Sony Pictures
Animation film, Open Season, starring Martin Lawrence, Debra Messing,
Ashton Kutcher, Gary Sinise, Jon Favreau, and many more.

Martin voices the lovable Boog in the film; he's the main attraction of
a show at the zoo with his best friend, Beth (Debra Messing). Boog also
lives with Beth, equipped with his stuffed animal, Dunkleman. On a
completely side note, what would a Sony film be without a reference to
one of their own. Before Boog settles in for his comfy night sleep, he
checks out Pat Sajak on Wheel of Fortune.

They have a great life together doing shows for the fans, even
exchanging powerful roars. But that's before Elliot (Ashton Kutcher)
shows up, the hapless one-antlered deer who's been captured by the evil
Shaw (Gary Sinise). Boog helps Elliot escape and makes Boog's and
Beth's life miserable, forcing Beth to send the two animals away into
the forest.

On his own for the first time, Boog now has to rely on himself, or be
stuck with Elliot. And that means figuring out how to go to the
bathroom in the wild. That's when he first runs into McSquizzy, the
squirrel (voiced by Billy Connolly) ¬ñ McSquizzy is the ruler of the
forest trees, and has a great and powerful squirrel Army to back him
up, equipped with thousand of acorns. Without a doubt, McSquizzy is one
of the highlights of Open Season! He's got wit, humor, and a ton of
Scottish charm.

Boog realizes having Elliot around is the only way he'll get back to
Beth. So they become 'partners,' much to the dismay of Boog ¬ñ but the
delight of Elliot, who just needs a friend. With hunting season right
around the corner, the two must work together to sneak around the
hunters.

But when Shaw breaks the hunting season date, the animals switch their
thinking ¬ñ instead of running away, they're going to fight back! And
fight back they do! Trying to run away, Boog crosses a dam;
unfortunately, his 900 pound body crumbles the wood.

That's when Open Season turns into Hill Street Blues! There is one of
the most amazing chase scenes I've ever seen in the movies. Boog,
Elliot, and their porcupine friend try and escape the gun shots of Shaw
¬ñ but on water. Bobbing and weaving through the water, under water,
above water, around rocks ¬ñ great scene! There's even a waterfall at
the end to top it off! I have somewhat of a test for animated movies
I've been giving myself over the past few years ¬ñ ever since seeing the
water scenes in The Incredibles, and noticing how real it looked, I've
started to take an eye to the screen. If water doesn't look real, than
it doesn't pass the test. Let's just say, Open Season aced my test.
This water chase scene goes on for about 5 minutes, maybe a little
more; but it's so exciting and amazing to watch! It's not just the
water of Open Season, it's the entire field of animation; the animals
really come alive on the screen. I'm a huge fan of animation; I think
it has to do with the fact that anything done with computer fascinates
me. The detailed description of each character, from their eyes, nose,
mouth, walk, and hair ¬ñ and in this movie, fur; it's just so amazing!
But back to the story - after meeting back up with the group of
beavers, led by Reilly (voiced by Jon Favreau), some of Elliot's former
deer mates (Patrick Warburton and Jane Krakowski), and a few other
animals, Boog and Elliot team up and go on the attack against the
hunters. Bras, plungers, grills, forks, knives, spoons, and basically,
anything they can get their hands on ¬ñ sorry, whatever they can get
their paws on ¬ñ they use to charge the hunters with.

Open Season is directed by Jill Culton, Roger Allers, and Tony Stacchi;
each has a number of major credits to their name. Both Tony and Jill
make their feature directorial debut on this film; however, Jill has
worked at Pixar on the character development for Monsters Inc. and Toy
Story. Tony worked on a number of films for ILM including Hook and
Ghost. Roger Allers co-directed The Lion King, and has just recently
completed The Little Match Girl ¬ñ a short attached to The Little
Mermaid.

Open Season is a fun and very enjoyable film for kids and families.
It's definitely a film you'll be talking about for a long time. And
don't forget, you can also check out the film in IMAX 3D, opening at
major theaters across the country.
