
There is one great flaw here that almost everyone mentions... and it's
true. The accents of the non-Spanish actors clash terribly with the
Spanish ones, as well as with each other. That's a real flaw, but if
you can get past that, there's a great film waiting to be seen. I found
I forgot all about it after the first 10 minutes. The critics just
don't get this film. A lot of regular people seem to miss it too. They
want a film with a typical "leading" role. They want their morality
tales (which this certainly IS) delivered in easy shades of Black and
White... no gray. They don't understand films where the title character
is primarily an Observer. Sometimes that CAN be dissatisfying, but here
the Observer is a genuine genius. Some people want him to be a moral
giant, but he's not, he's simply an observer who has actualized the
doctor's oath: First, do no harm. This is a brilliant story, and a
morally complex one, too. There are some parallels to America in Iraq,
though that is not the primary goal. This story illuminates the folly
of any regime, liberal or conservative, as each picks its friends and
foes, taking 180 degree turns from whoever was last in power. Javier
Bardem gives an incredibly canny performance! Natalie Portman is
totally unsentimental and totally committed to her multiple roles: just
great! Stellan Skarsgard threw me off at first with the sound of his
voice, but builds a performance of power and truth, in spite of it.
Randy Quaid was a small revelation. And of course the film looks and
sounds spectacular, with it's numerous and detailed textures,
compositions and sounds. If you want to think; if you like having pat
assumptions challenged; if you love people and history and art: see it!
<|_=00=_|>
I think Goya is after all just a pretext. What Forman wanted to talk
about is how people are overwhelmed by history. It's a difficult idea
to be grasped for people who live in wealthy societies where nothing
much happens and the biggest problems are having more money than you
already have and what to do on Saturday night. But Forman manages to
show you how you can be powerless and doomed when history moves
fast--too fast. The real protagonist of the story is not the painter,
but the former Dominican priest, whose life is totally changed--and
ultimately destroyed--by the big historical events (the French
Revolution, the French invasion of Spain, the English invasion of
Spain, the Restoration). The same may be said for the other characters
in the story. Goya is there as a witness, and as the symbolic figure of
the artist who manages to create something even out of utter
destruction. One could say that Goya's Ghosts are exactly those people
and events Goya witnessed and can't get rid of, so that he has to turn
them into drawings and paintings; but the term "ghost" also refers to
what individuals are like in those moments when everything is changing
and moving towards God knows what goal. The priest and the young girl
and all the other people in the story are just pawns of history, who
strut and fret on the stage and then disappear. Ghosts, because they
can be annihilated in any moment. It's a sad truth, but it's truth,
notwithstanding Hollywood's mythologies of super-heroes that can win
against all odds. Joyce said that history is a nightmare one tries to
wake up from; Forman showed us the nightmare, and the last nightmarish
scene of this movie is one of those you can't forget.
<|_=00=_|>
Masterpiece written by Jean Claude Carriere, who wrote, for example "El
discreto encanto de la burguesía" or "El fantasma de la libertad" with
Luis Buñuel. He also helped Buñuel writing "Mi ultimo suspiro",
Buñuel's autobiography.

This a movie not to explain, just to feel. Another great Forman movie,
in my humble opinion better than "Man on the moon" or "Larry Flynt"
(excellent movies anyway).

Buñuel wanted to do a movie about Goya. Maybe his friend Carriere is
doing a bit like a tribute to him. Buñuel would have enjoyed this
incredible movie.

Excellent performances by Javier Bardem, Natalie Portman, Stellan
Skarsgard, Randy Quaid and everyone involved.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood will have to wait for long time to see again films of such
quality,films that are condemned not to have a big commercial success
but films that will remain in the history of art of cinema.The "ghosts
of Goya" is taking us back to a past time showing with incredible
reality the conditions of this time,and helped by a great performance
of the actors,Milos Forman gives us another sample of his rare
directing talent.In the question which film i like most "Amadeus" or
"the ghosts of Goya" i can't decide which is more great,Mozart-a genius
of music composing,Goya-a genius of painting,aspects of their lives
under the unique look of Milos Forman.When i went to see this
movie,here in a small town of Greece,there were only 25 people in the
cinema,while films like "300" were played here for 2 months with the
halls full of people.What can i say?History will judge us all...
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it yesterday on film festival. And it was great.

When I was reading the description of the movie, I had some doubts. It
seemed it would be yet another film about bad, intolerant catholics and
good and democratic atheists. I'm just fed up with that kind of films.
But it was not so. In a short - it's a great film with bad description.

What it really is about, is that it doesn't matter what principles one
believes in if their life is doesn't match these principles. Both
inquisitors and French democrats were capable of same brutality -
always, of course, in name of some noble idea - love, freedom,
equality... It's not sentimental or pathetic and it doesn't try to tell
you what is "the only truth". It simply says that its not principles
and ideas that are bad - its people. Characters are very human, with
many errors - but, at the same time, each of the characters, even
"villains" have moments when you will like them. It is also because the
film changes perspective several times, and those who were despots
become victims.

Maybe its not the best Forman's film, but it is very good.
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine the paintings and drawings of Goya in all their darkness and
beauty coming to life - this is Milos Forman's masterful film. Goya
(and us)witness the folly of the Spanish royal court, the murderous
sadistic perversion of the Catholic Church, the cruel inhumane madness
of the Napoleonic War, along with the sensuality and beauty of life
passing. This is the film's main focus: to let us experience the time
and place as if seen through Francisco de Goya's eyes. As expected of a
Milos Forman's film, the locales, the customs, and the overall
production replicates the Spain of the late 18th century and early 19th
century with the exactitude of a court painting. The cast is also
excellent. As an Inquisitor turned a Napoleon's officer, Javier Bardem
deserves another Oscar nomination. Stellan Skargsdar as usual does a
chameleon-like transformation this time into Goya. Natalie Portman
elevates herself into a higher realm of acting as the doomed, beautiful
Ines. And Randy Quaid steals the screen for a few seconds as the King.
Milos Forman again has given us an emotionally- and
intellectually-challenging portrait of a dark era and the role of art
and artist. Although some of the dramatization is slightly contrived,
the film is compelling and moving and its vision lingers as Goya's art.
<|_=00=_|>
I read someone else's comment on IMDb (much more adulatory than I would
be for Goya's Ghosts), who said that it was a masterpiece not only for
Milos Forman and co-writer Jean-Claude Carriere, but for Luis Bunuel
too. And that intrigued me even more than I was already in anticipation
for the film, merely before as a Forman fan. Upon seeing it I can
understand the enthusiasm, and had a kind of private, nearly perverse
pleasure in recognizing (maybe too obviously on a subjective level)
little things that popped up when Carriere and Bunuel collaborated on
some of the late master's best works. On the other hand, for those not
too familiar with films like the Phantom of Liberty, the Milky Way or
That Obscure Object of Desire, Goya's Ghosts may seem like strong,
strange film-making that starts to go a little more haywire after the
half-way title card "15 Years Later" (possibly another in-joke for Un
Chien Andalou fans) pops up. But it's not only certain things regarding
the line between true drama and surrealism that marks Forman's latest
as something interesting.

Matter of fact, it is a flawed film, notably in the casting of Stellan
Skarsgaard as Goya himself. Why cast a Swedish actor, who usually isn't
necessarily bad in the character-actor parts he takes on, in the role
of one of the most decadent and ribald *Spanish* artists in the past
250 years of worldwide painting? Skarsgaard doesn't do too much to
elevate the part outside of being the guy on the sidelines,
dramatically trying to not get too much into the situations, at first,
but then soon becoming like a match-maker in the second half when
"daughter" drama happens between an ex-"Brother" and an
ex-prisoner-of-inquisition. And yet, there is perfect casting in having
Barden as the Brother Lorenzo, who doesn't change in how he tries to
push aside any of the problems in his life that he doesn't want to deal
with, be it questions of real faith, taking care of a certain lost
woman, and his illegitimate child, even as he changes from man of the
cloth to revolutionary in several years time. Seeing him in the first
half in that black robe, his eyes dark and leering of Goya and even the
Church to an extent, it's not wonder that he's one of the most
sought-out actors of his time. And even better then that, as far as
conventions go, he gets the truest kind of arc with his character.

Then there's Natalie Portman who, as probably as something of both an
in-joke/reversal of the tactic used in 'Obscure Object' with two
actresses playing the same woman, and a sort of disintegration-of-soul
aspect that Forman might be after ambivalently, embodies the crushed
innocence of repressive religion. Ines is tossed into a prison
following a confession- whether true or not is left nicely vague- that
she's Jewish following a questioning of what she ate, and left for more
than a decade. Seeing her in this section it's clear she's lucid in her
presentation of a simple characterization: sweet and naive, then later
torn into oblivion by insanity and a near absurd desperation to find
the child she birthed while in prison. When she plays the daughter it's
a little more flat and pat, as all we see of her is as a 14 year-old
(yes, 14 year-old) harlot. This mixed-up matching of actors (plus a few
bits with Randy Quaid as a well-played pudgy king) is set to a backdrop
of Spain where society is merciless and without much compromise unless
the regime changes, which is towards one way (the ultra strict
Catholics) or the other (the flawed Napoleon revolution people).
Meanwhile, Goya, deaf, sketches away in drawings that today seem right
out of graphic novels.

As mentioned, one may get some moments of random surprise as opposed to
fully stark costume drama; the first appearance of Portman's daughter
played by herself is a little doozy; the way the cardinal tells his
choir boy to keep reading the passage even as the French soldier on
horseback rides in with a decree, then shoots the boy midway through;
the emergence of the British army going towards and swarming around a
cart of 15 prostitutes left out in a field; the very last scene, where
a cart carrying a dead man is followed by...say no more. So there is a
drawback, or more than one at any rate, to Forman going for telling
about the nature of the society around Goya than too much about Goya
himself. It is a disappointment too to not get entirely, aside from the
'her face haunts me from that painting' logic, as to why Goya is so
infatuated with Ines and her plight in the first place. There's not
much to be seen into the man who drew such scandalous drawings whilst
being the king's painter. What we get instead, which is intriguing and
involving, if not totally successful, a story of corruption from the
'Powers-That-Be', and when it strikes at this Forman and Carriere get
some good, juicy entertainment. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
A film by Milos Forman is always an event. This will probably not
remain as one of the best in his career, and was surrounded by a level
of controversy, not the least among critics who received it very
differently. Yet, it is certainly a film to watch.

The story actually does not have Goya (Stellan Skarsgård) in the
center. It is rather the story of a corrupt morality policeman of the
18th century (Javier Bardem) imprisoning a young girl (Natalie Portman)
on the unjust suspicion of practicing Judaism in secret. It is the
story of a police state built on social injustice relying on pretended
moral puritanism in order to save the system. This happens at the price
of huge human suffering like the drama in the center of the story, and
here is the painter as a witness, living the dilemma of becoming
involved as a human or remaining a witness as an artist. We know what
path Goya chose.

I was not unhappy neither with the acting, nor with the story line,
although it is a little bit too melo-dramatic and too much prone to
coincidences. Forman is not so much focused on the drama or better say
melo-drama, or even in the historical detail, although he seems to be
on familiar ground getting back to the period in 'Amadeus'. What he is
busy with seems to be more re-creating some of Goya's paintings and
prints and tracing back the origin of inspiration of these
masterpieces. In a way the film can be read as justification of the
choice Goya made in life.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had a great storyline and kept one's attention from
beginning to end, a well directed movie, I believe one of the best I've
ever seen. While some period movies are overwhelmed by the attention to
period detail, in this movie the background enhances and makes the
movie more believable. The acting was very well performed and all the
actors deserve equal mention. I would see this movie again and
recommend to all. I have no doubt that this movie will garner many
awards in many categories! The costumes, the backdrops and scenery were
bar none and worthy of many accolades. The historical context is well
worth mentioning. A terrific period in Spain's history that left a long
and hideous scar on its glorious and eventful history. Enjoy and share
this movie with a friend and then enjoy comparing notes of what each of
you saw and felt especially attracted to!
<|_=00=_|>
I had hesitated so much to go to see this movie  because I thought it
is a period drama and I won't like the aristocracy, and I had assumed
that this was a French or Spanish movie. To my surprise it is an
English movie.

The story is around a painter Francisco Goya (played by Stellan
Skarsgard) during the turbulent times (1790-1810) when Napoleon invaded
Madrid. But do not be mistaken  this is not the story of Goya. The
Director (Milos Forman) uses painter Goya just to provide a canvas for
two main characters to emergethe corrupt Brother Lorenzo (played
brilliantly by Javier Bardem) and the innocent Ines (played
outstandingly by Natalie Portman).

Ines after being wrongly detained by Christian church to prison is
impregnated by Lorenzo, who runs away and later joins hands with
Napoleon to come back (after 15 years) as a high official to find that
Ines is the mother of his child  who is now the young street
prostitute. With British invading Spain, Lorenzo is publicly prosecuted
and the last scene shows Ines holding the hand of the dead body of
Lorenzo taken out of the town in a horse cart.

Hats off to Director Milos Forman (remember One Flew over the Cuckoo's
Nest and Amadeus)  who after 7 years of making movies took a
sabbatical from his teaching career to make this movie. And what a
marvelous movie he has made  worth the wait.

The main plot is about the human race and its bigotry. The times are
historic, yet significantly apply to today's world. Javier Bardem and
Natalie Portman have given their award winning performances 
especially Natalie Portman plays the role of the young Ines, old Ines
and young prostitute daughter with such different range of get-over and
acting that she astonishes us with her versatility and ease.

But the movie belongs  all in all to Milos Forman. As is the class of
all great directors the musical score is magnificent. The nuances of
undertones of each character's thoughts are presented aptly with
perfect casting. Milos always entertains us with his subtle comedy 
but I would call it as a black humor (I published last week that I do
not understand black humor of "Hot Fuzz"). Now after seeing this movie
I can say that I now know and understand what is black humor perfectly
well. If you like the movie do not miss the ecstatic painting displayed
during the unveiling of last titles. They are masterly selected by the
master crafts person Milos.

If you are movie fan  and are philosophical doubter (tribute to my
Guru Andreas Hensel  who is one) of everything  please go and see
this wonderful movie.

(Stars 8 out of 10)
