
I went to a screening of this film at Sundance earlier this year, and
this is what I wrote about it immediately following:

This was a little less indie, cast-wise, but was jarringly real in a
way that Hollywood rarely fosters. The story is of a limply-functional
family, whose good leg is dysfunctional, and of the way that their love
for each other is solid, somewhere underneath the varying shades of
crazy. This film. Oh, this film! I have never laughed harder, and at
such true-to-life comedy--nothing silly or goofy or forced or fake
about the lines. It felt more like watching a documentary (minus all
the familiar faces) and every time the laughter became almost
unbearable, a little dash of agony or melancholic sadness was thrown
in, and spawned aching tears. I sigh still, thinking of how completely
in control of my insides that cast, that writer, that director all
were. They owned my ass, and I will love them forever for it.

I can't wait to see it again. Do NOT miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
It is very rare to see a movie that can charm the hell out of an
audience without the use of special effects, worn-out clich√©s and
bombastic action set pieces these days. It's even more ridiculous to
hope that you will see such a film for FREE. But that's exactly what
happened to me tonight at a sneak preview of LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE.

I "discovered" this movie right here at IMDb, having heard not a peep
about it beforehand. By the time I finished watching the second trailer
for the THIRD time, I was floored...and hooked. Luckily, the Bulletin
Boards steered me toward the proper link to access sneak passes for
tonight's showing, and all I can say is that it will not pain me one
bit to pay for the privilege of seeing this gem a second time.

Assembling the best and most unlikeliest of ensemble casts you may
probably see all year, SUNSHINE on the face of it is a relatively (pun
intended) simple story. Little seven-year-old Olive (Abigail Breslin)
has one wish in life: to be considered for the finals of the Little
Miss Sunshine Pageant in Redondo Beach, CA. When her big chance comes
at the most unexpected time, it's up to her unbelievably fractured
family to pull themselves together and make it happen for her, no
matter what it takes.

And what it takes is a sad, painful, tragic and yet unendingly
hilarious trek in a barely operational VW bus from Albequerque, NM to
the Pageant. And although getting there is only half the fun and family
drama, you have got to see what happens to believe it when they finally
arrive and Olive gets to "do her thing." The strong cast sounds not a
single false note, and when the more touching moments arrive, they
don't seem forced the way they would in most other big-budget
behemoths, because these moments are truly earned. But WHAT a
collection of characters this is. Greg Kinnear is letter-perfect as
Olive's judgmental, failed motivational-speaker father; Steve Carell
finds new shades of darkest despair and human comedy as her suicidal
gay uncle, a leading Proust scholar; Paul Dano does amazing things with
little more than facial expressions as Olive's older brother who's deep
into Nietzche and a vow of absolute silence, and Alan Arkin, though he
has played this kind of role with both hands tied behind his back and
his eyes closed, still shines like a crazy diamond as her cantankerous
and hedonistic grandfather.

And barely holding this motley crew together is Toni Collette, who
amazes by playing a mother again and yet manages not to portray the
role exactly the same way, (you might recall her Oscar-nominated turn
as Haley Joel Osment's put-upon mom in THE SIXTH SENSE.) I'm not at all
familiar with the work of the two directors, Jonathan Dayton and
Valerie Faris, or the writer, Michael Arndt, but they have definitely
raised the indie film bar with this effort. Not a single moment is
wasted; not a single scene is in this film without having a reason for
being there, and it's all character-driven. There's also nothing fluffy
about it - commentary about everything from how twisted our pop culture
can be, to how our drive for being #1 winners can blind us to all of
the things that are the most important are all there under the
bittersweet laughs and tears for the audience to discover.

I can't recommend this one highly enough. And I can't wait to see it
again.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Little Miss Sunshine a week ago at the Sydney Film Festival, and
the audience I saw it with loved it. There was a lot of laughter going
on - especially at the hilarious ending. And amidst the jokes it deals
smartly with it's theme of the value of chasing your dreams and being
one of life's 'winners' versus valuing what you already have. Or put
another way, it celebrates the joys of losing in a culture obsessed
with winning.

I'm not going to go into detail about the plot, as the film hasn't been
widely released yet. There are no huge plots twists, but I think you'll
have more fun with this film if you don't know exactly where it's
going.

As the film started I wasn't so sure about it. All the characters
(apart from Toni Colette's perhaps) seemed to be written as being
amusingly quirky in a predictable indie-comedy way. But as the movie
went on it became easier to warm to them. I think it helped that the
actors appeared to be having genuine fun together. These guys don't
feel like much of a family at first, and I wondered a couple of times
why these people would bother sticking together, but as things progress
the strengths of this particular family unit become obvious. And just
as all comedies should, it gets funnier as it goes on. I was pleased to
see the script stayed true to it's messages all the way to the end, and
didn't turn preachy or maudlin. The whole cast work excellently
together, and I hope this film has all the success it deserves once
it's released.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate to admit it, but my primary interest in showing up for the
screening was to see Steve Carell try his hand at a semi-serious role
as the suicidal gay literature professor.

But it's not Steve Carell's film. It's a startling departure for him, a
nuanced and heartfelt performance that's just as strong as his
career-making turn in 40 Year Old Virgin. Likewise, this film does not
in any way belong to Toni Collette, Greg Kinnear, or Alan Arkin, all of
whom are at the absolute top of their games and each of whom is allowed
many moments within the ensemble structure to create a complex and
compelling character. Hell, the film doesn't even belong to Paul Dano,
who's just as good as his more experienced co-stars even though he
doesn't have a single line of dialogue in the first 80% of the movie. 

No, this film is owned wholly and entirely by a nine-year-old actress
named Abigail Breslin. I think a lot of viewers might miss it because
she's surrounded by enormously talented performers and is "golly gee
whiz" "aw shucks" cute, but this performance is, all hyperbole aside,
Oscarworthy. The entire film hangs on her emotional vulnerability and
she is achingly real in every moment of joy, sorrow, confusion,
desolation, and determination. The closest comparison I can think of is
Amy Adams in Junebug. She's that good.

OK, I seem to be writing this review backwards. Let's see if I can pull
together a plot description. The film is basically a dark comedy
dysfunctional family road trip. It starts out resoundingly bleak.
Richard (Kinnear) is a wannabe motivational speaker who in his
desperate drive for excellence has become deeply alienated from his
family. His wife Sheryl (Collette) tries to keep their family together
but is so frustrated with her husband and nerve- shredded by the
stresses of her home that it seems like she will cave in at any moment.
Also in the home is Steve's elderly father, who is perpetually profane
and angry and copes with the disappointments of his life by snorting
heroin. Richard and Sheryl are raising two children, the cute but
seemingly unremarkable Olive (Breslin) and the perpetually silent,
glum, and angry Dwayne (Dano), who is marking off the days until he can
go join the Air Force and escape this familial hellhole. Into this
enclave of joy and bliss enters Sheryl's brother Frank, who has just
been released from the hospital after trying to slit his wrists due to
his unrequited love for one of his grad students. When Sheryl tells her
brother that she's glad he's alive, he tonelessly responds "that makes
one of us." 

These are the characters. I know they must seem like pathetic indie
stereotypes, but over the course of the film each of them is revealed
as a multi-dimensional person struggling miserably but nobly to make
the best of a life that is not working out the way they had hoped. And
despite the gloomy set-up, this twisted thing becomes the most
life-affirming film I've seen since Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless
Mind.

It's not a perfect film by any means. At times it feels a little
contrived, as if several years of trauma were compressed into two days.
And while the climax undeniably represents the most ruthless skewering
of beauty pageants in the history of cinema, skewering beauty pageants
doesn't in itself really qualify as daring satire.

Nonetheless, the film packs an emotional wallop that's going to take a
lot of people by surprise.

And I haven't even mentioned that it happens to be the funniest movie
of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is a film that lives up to the expectations of a very funny
trailer. It's an oddball comedy, and it's dark, and it's funny, and
it's touching, and it will charm the pants off many in the audience.
Here is a simple story in which our lovely contestant and her family
try to find their way to California so that she can prove to the world
she is not a loser! The premise itself can lead to years of therapy for
a family that should get a group rate in psychiatric care.

Expert editing and superb comedic performances from all the principals
involved will have many overlook the fact that the plot line is a
little too contrived at times. The set pieces will have the audience
howling with laughter as we see different characters trying to overcome
some pretty irreverent obstacles. The scene at the gas station contains
moments of deep sadness and offbeat humor, something that Carrell pulls
off wonderfully, and none will be able to look at the trunk of a car,
some dubious literary material, and highway patrol the same way after
seeing the infamous scene in the film.

The best is of course, saved for last, and by this time we are waiting
for something outrageous which "Little Miss Sunshine" delivers
unapologetically. A classic track will probably be recharged for a new
generation, as the bonds of family precariously balance a moment that
could be as tacky as they come.

"Sunshine" is one of the best things to come out of American cinema
this year, an original film that relies on a script that understands
the differences between generations in the same family. It doesn't
explain why each character is as quirky as can be, and it doesn't build
much background because it is not needed to make the film work.
Kinnear, Colette, Abigail, Arkin, and Correll are a fine team and keep
the film's feel fresh throughout the film. Here is a family that has no
special qualities or powers, a family that will make us rejoice that
creativity is still alive in Hollywood, a film that will provide us
with plenty of much needed sunshine in an otherwise pretty dull summer.
<|_=00=_|>
Do yourself a huge favor and go and see this film and then tell your
friends about it. It has no special effects!!! No HUGE stars (though
Kinnear and Arkin are famous and perfectly cast) This film has just
great characters, unusual but perfectly understandable
circumstances,fantastic dialog, wonderful actors,stunning
cinematography, effortless direction and seamless editing.This film was
very well received by the audience I sat with. I laughed,I cried and
laughed until I cried. I heard that this film only cost three million
dollars to make...it just goes to show that tens of millions need not
be spent to get a treasure. Go see it and be thoroughly entertained.
This is one good old-fashioned movie for everyone over 13 (if you
preempt the grandfather's language, which is really part of his
character). Hope it gets some nominations!!!
<|_=00=_|>
We were happy to have had the chance to see this at the 2006 Sundance
Film Festival. I loved the cast: Greg Kinear, Toni Collette, Alan
Arkin, Abigail Breslin, Paul Dano and Steve Carrell were ALL marvelous
as the dysfunctional family. Little Miss Sunshine refers to a pageant
to be held in California (the movie never states where the family
lives, but most of the road scenes were definitely in the Phoenix,
Arizona area. (added 8/2/06: I know now that the movie is set in New
Mexico, for those of you who are interested in that sort of thing!)

The story follows little Olive, a normal child, who by a fluke wins her
way into the finals of the Little Miss Sunshine pageant. The family
decides they must accompany her in their old VW bus, so a road trip
ensues.

The final third of the movie, which deals with the actual pageant, is
by far the funniest part of the film. It illustrates, with great
hilarity, the frightening people who are involved in child pageants.
You can't help rooting for Olive, who is refreshingly normal amongst
the frighteningly plastic other contestants.

(After discovering that I was in the (opposite of loved it) category on
IMDb, I changed my subject line, because this was one of the best
movies I've seen all year!! I LOVED IT)

This is NOT a movie for children. After reading through some other user
comments, I have to say I'm dismayed by the amount of people
complaining about the F word. This movie is rated R, mostly because of
its frequent use of the F word, along with some drug use. If you do 5
minutes of research before you go to a movie, you should educate
yourself as to WHY a movie is rated the way it is. If you are offended
by swearing, then, if you go to a movie that is rated R because of
language, be prepared to be offended! Okay, I'm off the soapbox. This
is NOT a movie for children.
<|_=00=_|>
It would be unfair to limit the film to one adjective. But charming is
the first one that comes to mind. I really don't know how they did it,
but the screenwriter Michael Arndt and directing team Dayton/Faris
(Jonathan and Valerie, that is) have managed to create a movie in which
we are simply so connected to the characters it's frightening. This is
a very quirky bunch, and while their traits can be found in everyone we
know, they are certainly extremely weird and I certainly don't know any
families who are quite as odd as the Hoovers. And yet, we forge such a
strong bond with each and every one of them, right from the opening
pre-title introduction sequence ¬ñ probably the best character
introduction sequence I've seen since Magnolia. These people are just
so real! It's unbelievable just how three-dimensional these characters
are. They remind me of The Squid and the Whale ¬ñ another recent movie
that comes to mind when I think of this type of character development ¬ñ
these are just normal, regular people, and the filmmakers developed
them as such in the most in-depth, well thought-out and just ingenious
way possible.

That brings me to the second adjective: Realism. If you've seen the
film you know that some pretty wacky things go on in it, but in the
end, these people are just plain real. They are real human beings ¬ñ at
least we the viewing audience come to believe. If they weren't so
incredibly well thought out and detailed and rounded, we wouldn't forge
such a strong bond with them. But fact of the matter is, the Hoovers
have quickly become one of the most memorable cinematic families. Their
traits. Their flaws. Their dreams and ambitions. Their dynamics,
mannerisms, nuances. Every tiny little detail about these people is
just so incredibly portrayed.

Obviously, it would be unfair to say that a comedy isn't funny. When
Little Miss Sunshine gets funny, it's hilarious ¬ñ we're talking
pitch-black dark and very quirky comedy, but it works admirably,
reaching sort of a peak in the infamous, hilarious and totally wacky
traffic cop scene.

The acting is. Simply put, amazing. You won't see any Oscar moments
here, no characters that have some particular traits that require
various forms of "method acting" to perform. This is simply actors
playing a bunch of people who they are clearly quite unlike, but
playing them as if they are. The shining star is young Abigail Breslin,
who out-acts pretty much all of her older cast-mates. How she can
embody a completely other character at such a young age is completely
beyond me ¬ñ and she's been doing it since age 6! Dakota Fanning, watch
out! Paul Dano, the other young actor, also delivers an amazing
performance. Myself being fresh out of that period of my life, I can
say that his portrayal of a frustrated teenager ¬ñ specifically in the
scene where he just explodes (those who have seen the movie will know
what I'm talking about) is just so true and realistic. Arkin is
brilliant as the old grandfather, who is at once quite annoying and
vulgar and at once the most human of all the characters. The three
adult leads also deliver wonderful, nuanced performances ¬ñ Toni
Colette, who has quite a streak of wonderful performances in various
films, particularly impressed me.

But what makes the film so special is its message ¬ñ and even more so,
how it delivers it. Basically, the film's message can be summed up in
one brilliant line delivered by Arkin's character, Grandpa Edwin: "A
real loser is someone who's so afraid of not winning he doesn't even
try." This is a family who see tragedy after failure after
disappointment, and it's just so, so sad to see them so down, because
we love them all and we know that they don't deserve it, despite all
their flaws. Seriously, this movie is absolutely brutal to its
characters. But ultimately, it's absolutely inspiring. Because despite
disappointment after tragedy after blow to the stomach, this family
just keeps their head up and say "so what; we'll find another way".
Their determination and devotion despite all the obstacles in their
way, and their ultimate removal from their anxieties and un-winding is
simply and absolutely inspirational, and extremely heartwarming.

The flaw of many independent films that carry a message is that they
insist upon themselves. Sometimes it works admirably ¬ñ a recent example
I can recall is The Fountain; it's undeniably pretentious, but by
fulfilling its own expectations it works as a message film. Little Miss
Sunshine delivers its message in simply the most incredibly, charmingly
sweet, pure, honest, and innocent way you could ever imagine. It's just
so¬Ö pure. And that's really the single most engaging and appealing
aspect of what is already an amazing piece of work.
<|_=00=_|>
Keeping up with the recent buzz-worthy films coming out of Sundance the
past couple years, Little Miss Sunshine is a gem of a movie. After
loving crowd favorites Primer (2004) and Hustle and Flow (2005), I
wasn't quite sure if the hat trick would be made. Sunshine seemed to
have the cast, and direction (the debut of husband/wife team Valerie
Faris and Jonathan Dayton, who have helmed some of my favorite music
videos including the Smashing Pumpkins' Tonight, Tonight and the Red
Hot Chili Peppers' Otherside), but the big question would be if it had
the laughs to sustain the quirky indie comedy from not being
overwrought and boring. While the film definitely has a couple moments
where I was about to be lost, everything ends up happening for a
reason; emotions are on a roller coaster ride and the lows always come
out with meaning and momentum for the highs. Do yourself a favor and
see this sweet, subtle at times and gut-bustingly hilarious at others,
perfectly pitched ensemble piece.

The co-directors set us up for what is to come in a very nicely
designed opening sequence by going character to character, showing us
each person in a small vignette of their personalities. This is the
quintessential messed-up family with good intentions. Mom and Dad are
bickering on how to tell their young daughter about her uncle's
attempted suicide, while he sits and stares in a strange melancholy
next to the mute, troubled son, (on vow of silence in honor of
nihilistic mind Nietzsche), while grandpa spews profanities about the
lack of dinner variety. I mean this is the epitome of every family
function I've ever been privy to. There is so much a viewer can relate
to in each member, allowing for a certain amount of compassion for the
views of all involved and seeing that each really does want the best
for one another, even if they have a messed up way of showing it.

Greg Kinnear and Toni Collette are wonderful as the patriarchs, proving
as always that they are probably two of the most under-appreciated
actors working today. Very rarely do you get to see them in a starring
vehicle, and even though this is an ensemble through and through, they
definitely carry it as the driving force. Alan Arkin does his kooky,
quasi-angry, sarcastic yelling that he is known for, kind of his role
from Edward Scissorhands but r-rated and un- pc. Everything he has done
comes to a surprising result at the eponymous beauty pageant for the
biggest laughs of the movie, really great stuff subverting the
grotesque surrealism surrounding any pageant of this kind. Paul Dano is
great as the troubled teen, trying to find a place in the world for
himself, and coming to grips with the need for struggle in order to
grow as a person, and Abigail Breslin is phenomenal as the happiest
girl alive. Once she finds out she has won her regional on default,
(those primary school children and their diet pills), she is on cloud
nine as the family makes the road trip all for her. She has the acting
range of a pro and actually does the Dakota Fanning, but better, as she
can act while still being a young child and not an adult in a child's
body. Her emotional reactions are spot-on and she has remarkable
presence and a self-effacing nature that allows her to be who she is
and not be ashamed about it, which is the main purpose of Olive Hoover.

The real revelation to take from the antics on screen is a career-role
for funnyman Steve Carrell. I've always liked his na√Øve, teddy-bear
persona used to successfully in the Daily Show, The Office, and as the
only funny part of Anchorman. Here however, he shows that he has the
acting chops to not be pigeonholed and typecast in the over-the-top,
lug roles his peer Will Ferrell will never be able to breakout of.
Carrell has genuine talent and his suicidal, top Proust scholar in
America, uncle is the shining moment of the film. He maintains the
dejected quality throughout; even when doing something for the family,
doing good, he is always a beaten man. That kind of character is what
is needed for all his sharp, dry sarcastic retorts thrown about. He
barely outshines the prop of the year, though, the family's yellow VW
van. You will not see better prop-gags as the van takes a licking and
keeps on ticking although the tick is faint and slowly fading away.

Little Miss Sunshine lives up to the strong buzz that surrounds it. It
is heartwarming and funny at every turn. There are some dark moments,
though, as there are in life. This film is a slice of reality,
heightened just the right amount, for all to enjoy. While definitely in
the vein of films such as I Heart Huckabees, Thumbsucker, and any Wes
Anderson film¬óit wears its indie cred on its sleeve¬óit is still
accessible and hopefully with the drawing power of Carrell will garner
an audience that would not otherwise see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Comedies about families usually come in one of two genres. Often
featuring dysfunctional families (are those two words redundant?), they
are either broad and goofy ("Cheaper by the Dozen") or dark and
abstruse ("The Royal Tenenbaums"). Driving its Volkswagon bus down the
middle of these two extremes is "Little Miss Sunshine", a comedy both
inclusive and exclusive, one that some will get entirely, while others
will whiff on to the same degree.

The title stems from a beauty pageant in which seven-year old Olive
(Abigail Breslin of "Signs") competes. For a good portion of the film,
the contest serves as a MacGuffin of sorts, putting an already odd mix
of family members on the road in bizarre situations that call Vegas
Vacation to mind.

But "Sunshine" is far more than the slapstick of "Vacation". It mixes
humor both broad and subtle humor into a strange brew of comedy,
poignancy, lessons, and life. Huge and deep issues are addressed,
topics like death, dreams, and failure. Yet somehow the movie doesn't
feel heavy. You'll walk out with a smile on your face because the movie
sensibly touches on these issues, realizing that stuff happens and life
continues, that the handling of adversity is often what defines people.
And above all, there is family, which you're stuck with, for better and
worse.

"Sunshine" may not grab you right away, which is part of its power. It
burns slowly, introducing the family members to the viewing outsiders
through observation, then putting the viewers in the bus with them as
they enter a foreign world. All this is done without lapsing into
melodrama and without losing steam as the movie chugs toward the
climactic final scene, continuously building momentum along the way,
before promptly getting out on top.

Rather crude at times, "Sunshine" is not a movie for children, nor is
it for anyone who takes life or movies too seriously. But if you excel
at finding the askance humor in life and film, then you will relish
this offbeat look at a collection of family dynamics perhaps only
slightly stranger than most, although definitely more extreme.

Bottom Line: One of the year's best, and likely its best comedy. 8 of
10.
