
Sunshine cost £20 million. Jerry Bruckheimer and his Hollywood cohorts
must be shaking their heads in disbelief. Danny Boyle and Alex Garland,
British born and bred, have outdone America's effects laden finest, and
at a mere fraction of the price. Armageddon ($140 million) and Pirates
of The Caribbean 2 ($225 million) have nothing, nothing on the majestic
visuals that Sunshine offers. From the jaw dropping opening sequence to
the fantastically realised final moments, Boyle's latest is a mighty
treat for the eyes. 

But of course, effects do not make a film. You need only consider the
two aforementioned Bruckheimer blowouts for proof. But happily, behind
the blinding visuals, Sunshine has a violently beating heart. One that
offers absolutely no let up, that gains speed and then gains a little
more, before finally threatening cardiac arrest. You can't help but
live and breath every moment of the crew's breathless existence. 

The year is 2057 and a select group of astronauts are given that most
trifling of tasks. The sun is dying. Drop a bomb in it. Save all of
mankind. And to top it all, on a ship rather ominously named 'Icarus
II'. Add inevitable inter crewmember tension and you have a rather
heated situation. The sweaty crew are played wonderfully by a decidedly
un-starry, but talented cast. Cilian Murphy, taking the lead role as
the ship's resident physicist Cappa, the only member who has the
wherewithal to actually drop the bomb, is coolly enigmatic as ever, the
blue orbs of his eyes forming a nice counterpoint to the never far
rather redder orb of the sun. You can't help but feel he isn't
particularly challenged as an actor, but nevertheless he provides a
suitably ambivalent, androgynous and faintly unsettling core to the
proceedings. 

Perhaps more impressive is Chris Evans. Recently seen in a similarly
hot headed role in the undercooked comic book adaptation 'Fantastic
Four', he consistently snatches scenes from Murphy as engineer Mace,
about as volatile and fiery as Cappa is composed and cool. Without
Evan's energetic performance, the film would sink into an
anti-libidinal quag. Mace's emotive instability injects pace when it's
needed and brings some welcome variety to the otherwise glum faces.
Evans is surely on the brink of big things. A small quibble would be
that there are perhaps a few too many characters; meaning that a fair
share of the cast never really gets a chance for development, which is
irritating, as one gets the feeling that there's a lot of wasted
potential.

Another chink in Sunshine's spacesuit, is in many places, Alex
Garland's screenplay. Whilst he has a remarkable talent for creating
intense psychological tension, of which there is plenty in Sunshine,
his philosophising is much less satisfactory. This is not to say he
doesn't play with some fascinating ideas. With the crew circling so
close to the Sun, to the giver of life, Garland begins ask the biggest
of questions. Is there something, something inestimably greater than
ourselves, something that could create such a magnificent star, or are
we, like the sun, simply dust? It's a great idea, but for the larger
part of the film, it seems oddly shoehorned into what is at base a
sci-fi pot-boiler. In fact these ideas are better expressed in Boyle's
imagery. Time and time again we see members of the crew staring aghast
at the immensity of the burning ball of gas and dust in front of them.
The relationship between giver and taker is better explored here than
in any line of Garland's. 

The structure of his screenplay is also a little unwieldy. The first
hour and a half play as an intense psychological study - the pace at
times painfully weighty as the tension is ratcheted up ever higher. The
film works beautifully here - it may not introduce anything
particularly new; claustrophobic stress is certainly nothing new in
sci-fi, but it follows genre conventions with such panache and artistry
that it's difficult to fault. However, come the final 20 minutes,
Sunshine takes a rather abrupt and unwelcome turn. A pretty hammy (not
to mention poorly explained) plot twist is ushered in and suddenly we
find ourselves in a horror film - a clichéd one at that. To say much
more would spoil things, but needless to say, had the filmmakers showed
a little restraint in the closing moments, they would have had a real
classic on their hands. When the film ditches pretensions, and sticks
with the clammy, slow burn thrills it excels at, it's fantastic. When
it descends into predictable melodrama, it's still alright, it's just
disappointing considering what we know it's capable of. As such it's
remarkably well shot, superbly rendered, occasionally poignant and
occasionally flawed. Whatever the case, Sunshine is never far from
entirely thrilling, and, all said and done, film recommendations don't
come much higher than that.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sure many reviews will say something similar: This is two-thirds of
a great sci-fi movie. Specifically, the first two thirds. Natural
characters, intelligent dialogue, stunning visuals; I was thoroughly
immersed in this philosophical disaster movie in space. Heck, even the
moody, modern, sentimental score worked.

The central premise concerns humanity's last hope for survival: the
Icarus II (EXTREMELY dumb name for a ship travelling to the sun, if you
remember the Greek legend), whose crew must re-ignite said star with a
nuclear bomb the size of Manhattan island. It's distant future stuff,
but the filmmakers work hard at establishing plausibility. They
certainly achieve it. Impressive.

Cast-wise, it's an eclectic group. Cillian Murphy gets the starring
role, and he's good. Maybe it's just me, but he always looks slightly
psychotic - something to do with the eyes perhaps? Anyway, he's a
quirky and soulful leading man.

Nice work by Michelle Yeoh, Rose Byrne and Cliff Curtis. Not one weak
link in the multinational cast.

I thought Chris Evans stole the acting honours. Despite his character's
hot temper, he gave gravitas to every decision, and they included some
pretty big ones. He's the pragmatic member of the group; logic's on his
side, and he knows it.

The introduction of Icarus I to the second half of the story (the
previous ship that mysteriously failed) is not handled particularly
well. The crew's decision to deviate from the mission is a poor one,
and has disastrous consequences. Later on, a horror element is
introduced which is just laughable. All the filmmakers' hard work
peters out in a third act of blurry shots, shaky cams and
incomprehensible cuts.

Overall, 'Sunshine' is a real mixed bag. Director Danny Boyle and his
cast work hard to create a believable scenario. The special effects
really are special. I think the fault here lies with writer Garland,
whose third act is derivative, contrived, and not worthy of the rest of
this fine film.
<|_=00=_|>
How would we cope under the most extreme circumstances imaginable? That
is the question posed by Danny Boyle's latest offering, and the answer
seems to be that anybody can be pushed over the edge, it is just a
question of what and how much it takes.

Danny Boyle seems unable to settle on a genre specialty, but it also
seems that whatever he turns his hand to he can make work (with the
exception of romantic comedy - A Life Less Ordinary anyone?). In his
latest, the sun is dying, and we join the 2nd attempt to try and
restart the star by delivering a nuclear bomb to kick-start it. Having
been alone in space for the past 16 months, the eight-man crew is
approaching its destination, but nerves are starting to fray. Then they
pick up a signal rom the ship that made the first, unsuccessful,
attempt. Inevitably they go and investigate, and problems ensue. When
the inevitable disaster occurs, jeopardising the mission, we begin to
see how people deal with extreme circumstances, and how their sanity is
affected, in different ways. Elements are recognisable from Alien,
Solaris and Event Horizon, and the film certainly benefits from all of
those influences. The claustrophobia, the understated technology, the
dark corridors, the unseen menace, all recognisable but effectively
used.

This is not a typical science fiction per se. There are no aliens, no
space battles, and no ultra-advanced technology on show. Instead Boyle
chooses a more philosophical tangent, leading to questions of exactly
what defines humanity, and the value of a single life weighed against
the future of mankind.

The casting is excellent, with many recognisable but no particularly
famous faces, the biggest names being Batman Begins' Cillian Murphy and
Fantastic Four's Chris Evans. This lack of star names, combined with a
cast of only the eight crew somehow makes the loneliness and the
feeling of being a huge distance from home with a long way to go seem
even more real. We really begin to feel with the crew as they try to
hold it together long enough to complete their vital mission. Cillian
Murphy in particular is a piece of inspired casting, as in many of his
roles he has always appeared on the very brink of insanity anyway, so
he has the close-to-crazy act down to a tee.

The CGI of the sun is extremely impressive, particularly considering
the relatively low budget of the film, and the simple but intense story
has viewers on the edge of the seat virtually from first act to last.
The suspense is built gradually but extremely effectively, to the
extent where you can feel your sanity heading the way of the
astronauts' as the conclusion approaches with increasing speed.

Overall a very effective study in what a tenuous thing sanity is when
faced with huge odds and a great threat. Thrilling, gripping and
thought-provoking, and another genre nailed by Boyle - now if only he
could crack that pesky rom-com!
<|_=00=_|>
I was very lucky being able to get into a preview of this movie today
in Vienna. I only knew very little about it in advance, so my
expectations were quite neutral.

One word of advice: this movie is not for nitpickers or physicist. The
plot outline (i.e. detonating a "stellar bomb" inside the sun) sounds
ludicrous at first - but if you're able to ignore this and some other
scientific nonsense, you get one great movie.

This one is all about the details and the crew's behavior. Danny Boyle
once again proves his insight into the human psyche as he portraits how
the crew-members handle the various arising problems, some of the
decision-making is displayed frighteningly realistic compared to other
movies in the genre. Cillian Murphy (brilliant as ever) and Chris Evans
(hated him in Fantastic 4, but showed a great performance here) pair up
very nicely during most many scenes.

The entire movie has a certain feel to it, the atmosphere is very tense
and Boyle manages to keep the pace at quite a high level the entire
time. Visual FX are at a high level as well.

Apparently Sunshine can't deny the influences from 2001 or Event
Horizon, nevertheless it should be treated as an independent film.

A few deductions for some glitches and the scientific stuff, otherwise
great entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>
Two things up front: Firstly, anyone who's read this far into the
reviews knows the plot of this thing (astronauts chucking a bomb-- if
not themselves-- into the dying sun in order to revive it). Secondly,
the following is as disjointed as the film it addresses.

So many glowing reviews I've read for "Sunshine" seem to center around
the idea that one must simply give in to the power and majesty of the
film's visuals. That is to say, one must in the presence of "Sunshine"
emphasize oohing and ahhing over thinking.

I'm sorry: I can't do that. Ironically, if "Sunshine" were being touted
as a dumb bit of fluff, I'd be far more likely to take it at face
value. But "Sunshine"'s makers and culties have trumpeted their darling
as a slice of intelligent sci-fi, oh-so-rare these days, etc.

Frankly, it's not. That "intelligent" thing. Not a bit of it.

Thoughts: If you hire a physicist to act as a consultant on your film,
and if your screenwriter concocts backstories for your characters, and
if you house your actors in bare-bones student digs and send them up in
airplanes that permit them to experience zero-g, all so that they feel
like "real" astronauts, and if all that consulting and all those
stories and all that experience don't end up on the screen-- i.e., if
you expect us viewers to mine the film's websites for this science and
these tales-- then you as a filmmaker (that means you, Mr. Boyle)
haven't done your job. Simple.

We don't know who these characters are, so we don't care about them.
Sure, Rose Byrne has her teary brown doe-eyes, so she captures an
instant sympathy vote, and Hiroyuki Sanada draws us in with his calm
and his silky voice. But the rest of 'em? Cillian Murphy comes off as a
stoner and a bit of a jerk, and Chris Evans tries desperately to make
something of the "duty" card he's been dealt, but the rest of 'em are
ciphers. Alex Garland seems to think that character development is for
sissies-- or that it's certainly not important if you have a Big Idea
(here "Our Lives Are Secondary to the Saving of All Humanity,
Dontchaknow"). I politely suggest that he's dead wrong. If we don't
give a rat's patootie about the characters, we certainly won't care
about the idea in the service of which they're acting.

And not only are they ciphers: they're inconsistent, too. Early on,
Mace goads Capa, the only one capable of operating the stellar bomb (in
itself a ridiculous idea: what, in sixteen months, Capa couldn't train
a backup to turn the key and press the "LAUNCH" button? Job security, I
guess.), into performing a highly dangerous repair job outside the
ship. Then, later, when he and Capa and another of the Icarus II's
hapless crew must execute an ill-advised human-cannon trick between two
crippled airlocks (a situation that falls squarely between "Don't ask."
and "What the hell?"), Mace insists that Capa take the only available
spacesuit, as he's indispensable to the mission. Sure, Mace earlier may
have been feeling piqued and petty, Capa having pulled a bit of a
careless dumb with regard to their window for sending messages home,
but the fact here is that it's not my job to make Mace's excuses. It's
Mr. Garland's job, and his script simply doesn't deliver.

Don't try to cover up the paper-thinness of your story by snowing us
with special effects. It's insulting and annoying. Just how many
useless beauty shots of the Icarus II does this movie contain, anyway?
Not one of them helps us to know where we are on the ship. Also: if you
can't afford the effects you wanted for your third-act mad slasher (did
I already mention the "Don't ask." thing?), don't try to cover by
shaking the camera and overexposing your shots every time said slasher
is on screen. That takes "annoying" clear up to "blatantly irritating."

Smart people creating jeopardy by making dumb choices or nonsensically
arbitrary decisions is less likely to evoke sympathy than smart people
who find themselves in peril because of natural disasters or mechanical
catastrophes. That is, a supposedly smart guy who makes a calculation
that leads to half a spaceship going up in flames is less likely to
earn a "You poor people!" from me than, say, a freak solar flare that
leads to half of said spaceship going up in flames. And have I
mentioned yet how much I despise selectively "smart" computers? As in,
a computer that talks to you and calls you by name and yet can't tell
you when half your spaceship has just caught on fire? (Not that it's
entirely the computer's fault here, the fire thing: it happens during
one of "Sunshine"'s many randomly placed beauty shots, so it's quite
likely that the computer, like the viewing audience, isn't sure if the
ship that catches fire is actually the Icarus II, the ship on which Our
Story is taking place. "Oh, look: there's a ship on fire over there.
Hey-- do you smell smoke...?")

Selective flammability: Not only do Capa and the film's Mystery Slasher
not burn up when Capa, hoping to effect a desperate getaway, yells
"Full sunlight!" in the observation lounge of the Icarus II, the lounge
itself doesn't burn up. By comparison, when the show's nutter
psychologist (again: don't ask) tries the "full sunlight" thing, he
burns up just fine, thank you.

So: who gets the star? It's a split: Chris Evans, who tries so
desperately to be the voice of reason (if only for a moment) on this
ship of fools, and Underworld and John Murphy, who were obviously
watching a much more intelligent, moving, and dramatic film when they
concocted the score.

Even though it's rare to see a movie so lovingly misconceived, you'd be
wise to give this a miss. Dumb, depressing, muddled, and thoroughly
unentertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
With a suitably international and diverse cast to simulate the
equivalent crew onboard the Icarus II ("Icarus I" didn't fare so well),
director Danny Boyle fledges a science fiction that gains momentum at
its very first image  and does not halt until the end credits roll. To
be perfectly frank, this is one of the most unbearably exciting films
for whose entire duration I have ever squirmed in my seat for at the
theatre.

On a mission to re-ignite the sun by detonating a bomb ("the size of
Manhattan island", Cillian Murphy's physicist nods to American
audiences and cause me to suffer horrible flashbacks to Armaggeddon's
"it's the size of Texas" assessment) human lives are expendable and
rationalized by rank. There are scientists, astronauts and various
specialists on Icarus II who are all poised on the brink of sacrificing
themselves for the greater good of mankind. Diverse in the sense that
there are both men and women, and few characters are 'black or white'
(morally, and physically), it does puzzle me that New Zealanders,
Aussies and Irishmen have been arbitrarily converted into Americans.
The crew is nevertheless highly impressive and professional, with a few
minor exceptions for plot-propelling purposes, like when someone does
something very stupid.

There is noticeably a tremendous visual sense throughout "Sunshine"
with a screen that is awash with sparkling explosions and each frame
saturated with bright colours and dimmed contrasts. There is no
genre-transcending perhaps, and most probably its visuals are under the
mercy of dating effects, but for now this is truly the crème de la
crème of science fiction, take my word for it. Even the cinematography
within the spaceship alleys and chambers is compelling and sweeps
through Icarus II with great tracking shots. Amongst other films, Danny
Boyle was inspired by Das Boot and certainly there are traces of the
same claustrophobia underpinning the setting, but ultimately he opted
for a more habitable environment to make it believable (like humanity
would ship off its only hope with a crummy, crowded old vessel).

To justify the occasional bouts of sci-fi clichés, I'd like to firstly
point out that it's not like "Sunshine" traffics in stereotypes or
resorts to formulaic elements, and secondly that I believe certain
clichés have evolved for a reason  they quite clearly stand the test
of time. There are within science fiction some staples that are simply
necessary to define its genre, such as the dutiful human sacrifices to
up the drama, the internal mutinies to instill the uncertainty in the
operation, the nightmarish conditions onboard the ship to suck you in,
the technical jargon of velocities and shield angles that spits like
bullet-fire to give the film a firm scientific footing, and finally the
epic music to elevate suspense. "Sunshine" incorporates and melts
together all of the aforementioned, but in militantly non-formulaic
ways that only add to the experience. As a potent example, there isn't
just pedestrian classical tunes recycled from 2001 and filtered through
{insert rote Hollywood composer here}'s score  it is puffed full of
beautiful piano crescendos that are almost incongruous to the sci-fi
vibe, and the cumulative effect is wonderful.

"Sunshine" is sporadically blemished by minor faults, such as when
Murphy's Law is being followed a bit too rigorously to up the
excitement. Luckily, all of this is washed away or camouflaged when
Boyle serves up his next goosebumps-inducing, gasp-eliciting spectacle
 be it a horror twist or an impossibly epic action stunt. On the topic
of the former, and clearly the chiasma at which "Alien" comparisons
have been drawn, there is a magnificently creepy horror/mystery vibe
interlacing the story in space. On top of this, Danny Boyle also
dabbles in existentialism (a little too much if you ask me), making
this into one of the most ambitious sci-fi turns ever made. In this
way, maybe "Sunshine" is not primed to collect awards or even serve as
meat for mainstream Hollywood, but I think it's safe to crown it the
"Alien" of the 21st century.

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Coming from the director-writer team that brought us the imaginative,
creative "28 days later", "Sunshine" is a disappointment. It's as if
the movie makers, halfway through making the movie, got hit by some
mysterious radiation or virus and abruptly changed their mind, turning
a space epic adventure with promising potentials into a space horror
B-movie. Permit me to elaborate.

I like the cut-and-dry, no nonsense opening, when we see the crew of
eight, after 16 months in space, arrives a week ahead of schedule at
the edge of the "dead zone" from which communication with Earth is no
longer possible. Their mission is to re-ignite a dying sun with an
explosion, something that the previous mission 7 years ago failed to
do. In similar movies, there is invariably a build-up showing the
background, the assembling of the team, establishing characters and
conflicts, and so on. Doing away with all these preliminaries in
"Sunshine" is a courageous thing in itself, showing the movie makers'
confidence that whatever they put on the screen will be spellbound for
the audience. For a moment, they seem to be right.

There are one or two interesting parameters. No pain has been spared in
driving the point home that the Sun, while the source of all lives on
Earth, is at the same time the deadliest of enemies, particularly at
close range. And yet the fascination it has on the crew (especially two
of them) is almost hypnotizing. This theme has been consistently
reinforced throughout the movie. There is also careful depiction of the
psychological impact of prolonged isolation on some of the crew
members.

The key turning point of the plot is the discovery of the vehicle lost
7 years ago and the decision to make a detour, not to check for
survivors, but to collect the unused bomb so that the mission will have
two chances instead of just one. So far so good. Mishaps happen along
the way, naturally. In this genre, the audience in prepared to accept a
certain degree of weak logic. But as incredulity develops to
mind-boggling proportions you begin to lose interest. For example, how
can you believe that an expert who carefully calculates every detail of
the mechanism for changing the course forgets to take into
consideration the effect of the deadly Sun, something that is more
critical and fundamental to their survival than water and food? But all
these mounting plot holes are dwarfed by the complete shift of the
movie from a save-the-Earth mission to a space horror. Even worse, this
is not a space horror that is firmly rooted, such as "Alien". The plot
twist in "Sunshine", despite the elaborate packaging, is a sloppy
devise of four words: one guy gone crazy.

The characters in "Sunshine" stand out neither more nor less compared
with those in movies such as "Armageddon", "Deep Impact", "Core",
"Mission to Mar" or other ones you might think of. Cillian Murphy is
completely wasted here. He gets a better deal even in "Red Eye".

On the technical plane, this movie is not bad. Images, sound, editing,
score all contribute towards the creation of an atmosphere of tension.
You would like to put aside your reasoning capacity and enjoy it. But
when your tolerance is stretched to a breaking point, this movie become
memorable, for the wrong reasons.
<|_=00=_|>
After reanimating the zombie genre with 28 Days Later, director Danny
Boyle and writer Alex Garland now turn their attention towards science
fiction - with equally startling results.

Sunshine is unequivocally the best sci-fi movie in a very, very long
time. I'd echo the other comments on here - it mixes elements of 2001:
A Space Oddessy with Event Horizon, then adds the tension of Alien.
This is NOT the gung-ho action of Armageddon, The Core et al.

The film just throws you straight into the space mission, there's no
background to worry about, only these 8 crew members headed towards the
sun. The great thing about this cast is that there's no "superstar"
billing, so you're never sure who is going to make it alive to the end
of the film! The actors are uniformly good, with Chris Evans in
particular deserving much praise. Michelle Yeoh delivers a very
understated performance, very different from her ass-kicking Asian
roles! 

Danny Boyle has always been good with characters but with Sunshine he
really steps up a level. Visually this film is astonishing and
literally had me open mouthed at times. The production design,
costumes, the sound design, the music from Underworld... they all
combine to give the viewer an amazing cinematic experience that you'll
want to watch for a second time, just to take it all in.

Whilst it's an exciting, tense film to watch there's no denying the
serious point of Sunshine's message. It's a film about preserving the
future of mankind and the sacrifices that have to be made in order to
do that... and it will make you think long after the credits have
rolled.

A fantastic achievement - one which deserves to be seen on the big
screen when it opens worldwide. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
The combination of director Danny Boyle, writer Alex Garland and actor
Cillian Murphy should have meant that Sunshine was the best film of the
year so far. Sadly it's meaningless drivel.

There are two kinds of space movie. The first are those with shooting
and/or aliens (Star Wars, Serenity, Alien etc). Then there are those in
which the focus of the film is on people going mad in space for no well
explained reason (Solaris, 2001, Silent Running etc). Sunshine falls
into the latter category. If you've knowingly seen a Tarkofsky film
then go and see Sunshine - you're bound to be able to find some
spurious justification for why it was meaningful.

*Spoiler*

A group of ethnically diverse astronauts are in the final leg of the
second and last mission to chuck a cosmic paint can into the sun in an
attempt to "restart" it. 

Nothing much happens until the crew discovers that the ship from the
first mission is still orbiting the sun. The crew then decide that
they'd rather be in "Alien" than "Solaris" and go to investigate.
Naturally someone is still alive on the original spaceship. This
surviving loony has a god-complex, a bad case of sunburn and the
ability to blur film. He kills everyone except Cillian Murphy who
manages to detonate the bomb and everyone on earth is saved - hooray.

Apparently: 

1) Sentient super computers aren't very good at providing useful
information such as "there's an extra person on board" or "shall we
make sure the mirrors are adjusted before turning the ship?". 

2) Vitally irreplaceable sections of space ships often explode and/or
catch fire for no reason. Providing backup systems (or even fire
extinguishers) is apparently pointless and unnecessary. 

3) Computers that rely on complex liquid cooling devices to function do
not require emergency shut offs. Or spares. 

4) Gold lame space suits are in. 

5) All derelict space ships should be investigated in case they contain
plot devices. 

6) If the sun is going out restarting it will be a doddle.

*End Spoiler*

There are some people who may decide this is THE in thing. Me, I'd
rather watch Space Truckers again... and that's saying something. I'd
give it some points for the special effects but really, given that none
of them serve the story in any useful way, I cannot even justify that.
1/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a sci-fi fan. I've seen a few sci-fi films, but I don't flock
to the nearest cinema to check them out. The only one I own on DVD is
Alien vs. Predator, and that's only because it was three bucks at the
video store and I needed a fifth one. I haven't seen 2001 or Event
Horizon, and I don't remember anything about Alien. I saw Armageddon in
1998, when I was eleven years old, and I just remember being
embarrassed at that scene with the animal crackers.

That being said, this film may have turned me into one of the sci-fi
fans. If nothing elseif seeing a film that explores more than just
"action" on screen isn't your kind of thingthe film is gorgeous. The
shots of the sun are some of the most fascinating bits of effects I
have ever seen in any sort of film, not only sci-fi. The film is set
only fifty years into the future, and therefore the technological
aspects of the set are relatable rather than hard to imagine.

The characters are well developed, and the actors are top-notch. Every
single performance is phenomenal, and I was even a bit taken aback by
how much I enjoyed Chris Evans's portrayal of Mace. Everyone seems to
have taken the time to learn about the science and about the
psychological factors of being with the same people for so long (most
likely due to the fact that Danny Boyle sort of forced them to), and it
shows on screen. The characters are all real, and although none of us
know what it would be like to be in space and alone for sixteen months,
there are aspects of them all that are immediately relatable.

The plot is secondary. That doesn't mean that it isn't well thought or
anything like that, but the human drama and psychological journey of
the characters is the primary concern in the film, and the fact that
they are going to re-ignite the sun is merely the background story that
puts them all together in the first place. There are far more triggers
that ask the audience to think about their life and the life of mankind
and of the universe itself than there are for the audience to question,
"Well, how did that just happen?" The film asks us to have a brain and
be willing to use it.

Sunshine is a religious experience. It is very personal and is a very
unique experience to each member of the audience. It is incredible,
awe-inspiring, intense, and one of the most beautiful pieces of film I
have ever seen. Danny Boyle, Alex Garland and Andrew Macdonald have
done it again. A+.
