
Ex Machina has a simple story dealing with a deeply complex and
philosophical topic: namely what makes humans human.

The increasingly omnipresent Oscar Isaac plays billionaire Nathan
Bates, genius creator of 'Google' - my mistake - 'BlueBook', the
world's "leading search engine". Bates lives in the middle of the
American wilderness (in reality, a very picturesque Norway) and in a
property that actually exists (BlueBook the Juvet Hotel). He is leading
a one-man research project into the development of an Artificial
Intelligence. Leading neatly on from the recent Cumbur-busting "The
Imitation Game" the eccentric and erratic Nathan needs to share his
work with someone external in order to perform 'The Turing Test' - the
test to determine if a machine can genuinely pass itself off as human
to another human.

Domhnall Gleeson' character (Caleb) works for BlueBook and wins the
Wonka Golden Ticket to spend a week with Nathan, becoming the human
side of the test. Ava is the beautiful and seductive android subject
and the film clinically walks through the sessions between Caleb and
Ava, watched over by Nathan via the villa's comprehensive CCTV system.
The only other significant character in the film is Nathan's house maid
Kyoko (Sonoya Mizuno), who neither understands nor speaks English so
drifts silently around offering various 'services'.

We have been here before: Ridley Scott's "Blade Runner" and Spielberg's
"AI" both covered similar ground, but in perhaps a less claustrophobic
manner than Ex Machina. This serves the story well, ramping up the
tension as an age old Sci-fi plot-point emerges (as covered by the
trailer): how will a sentient machine feel about having its plug
pulled. (No rain or doves are included in this one).

The acting is all up to snuff, with Isaac - this time hiding behind a
Brian Blessed-style bushy beard - looking and acting for all the world
like George Clooney. Domhnall Gleeson ("About Time", "Harry Potter and
the Deathly Hallows" and getting all the roles that Paul Bettany is now
too old for) makes the journey well from nice but naive employee to a
much more world-wise freedom-fighter. Swedish-born Alicia Vikander,
currently also leading in "Testament of Youth", is deliciously sensual
as Ava (albeit - and trust me to notice this - that her significant
assets seem to vary in size during the movie). She is also an excellent
actress, having to reflect a wide range of emotions through little else
than her eyes.

I really enjoyed this film. However, that is on the basis that Science
Fiction is one of my favourite genres: I can see some audiences finding
the philosophical plotting too slow and wordy to hold their interest.
But if you like your films deep and thought-provoking, as well as
deliciously tense in places, then this might be for you.

The writer and director is Alex Garland, and this is actually his
impressive directorial debut. He is of course best known as a writer,
having penned the novel of "The Beach" and the screenplays for films
including "28 Days Later", "Sunshine" and "Never Let Me Go". Also hats
off to the special effects crew (led by Richard Conway) since Ava is a
miracle of visual effects. The effective keyboard score is by Geoff
Barrow and Ben Salisbury.

The film pleasingly doesn't outstay its welcome, also leaving some
loose ends to ponder on after the lights come on and the screeching
credits song (sorry, but it's just AWFUL!) drives you from the
auditorium. Also be aware that for those offended by full frontal
female nudity, or indeed those that enjoy it, that there is a good deal
of it in this film. (Lads, practise the excuse now: "But it's fine dear
- - she's not a naked women she's a robot!").

(If you enjoyed this review, please see the multi-media version at
bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to receive future
posts. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
Ex Machina has a very fitting sense of false intimacy. This is done
visually as many of the close-ups are seen through glass. No matter how
close we get to the subject on-screen, there always seems to be at
least one wall of glass between us and it or them. The film also makes
a very distinct contrast between it's interior and exterior shots.
Outside of the facility is breathtaking landscapes. It is big,
beautiful, refreshing and vibrant. Inside seems like an endless
futuristic maze of glass, mirrors, plastic, chrome and dim lights. It
is clean, cold and claustrophobic. A perfect setting for the subject
that is explored in this tight, tense sci-fi thriller.

Ex Machina is the best science fiction film on artificial intelligence
since Blade Runner. While Blade Runner is an action thriller that
relies more on it's epic visuals to tell it's story, Ex Machina is a
dialogue-driven psychological thriller that slowly works it's way under
your skin. Thought-provoking and terrifyingly suspenseful, an induced
state of paranoia may linger long after the end credits begin to roll.

The less you know going into a film like this, the better your
experience will be. Alex Garland has given us a modern science-fiction
masterpiece. Performances from all three leads are flawless and every
other aspect of the production, from the cinematography to the
soundtrack, is perfectly suited for the story. Not only is Ex Machina
an amazing achievement for a directorial debut, it's Alex Garland's
best written work to-date.
<|_=00=_|>
"Ex Machina" deals with a familiar theme in a very unique way. It
doesn't bombard you with effects or superficial action (although the
robot effects are exceptional). Rather, its focus and beauty lie in the
subtle and nuanced performances of its tiny cast as the film explores
what it means to be human.

Quiet dialogue scenes between two characters are filmed in such an
impactful, making them feel hauntingly austere, sweet and innocent, or
terrible and frightening, through meticulous use of composition, light
and sound. The film really does run the gamut of emotions, surprisingly
funny one minute and gut-wrenchingly tense and weird the next, while
the script twists and turns, constantly unsettling your assumptions
about what will happen. 

The performances are excellent, most notably Alicia Vikander as the
beguiling Ava, who absolutely passes for being 'almost human'. Her
precise movements -walking, standing or stooping to pull on a pair of
stockings- have just that slight tinge of the uncanny about them to
suggest a mechanical skeleton, yet she is undeniably seductive. You can
really understand Caleb's mental plight as she begins to show signs of
a sexual interest in him!

Domhnall Gleeson also delivers a quiet and focused performance as
Caleb, which reflects much of the film's over all style. Like Ava, he
is relatable, yet has this slight autistic aloofness about him, in
complete contrast to the boorish, reckless Nathan (Oscar Isaac). 

The dialogue feels real and non-cliché. The pacing for the most part is
measured, although one or two scenes might move a little slower than
they need to.

The ending probably will not satisfy everyone, and admittedly left me a
feeling a bit cold, but it certainly didn't follow the route I was
expecting. Overall I found it to be enthralling and disturbing stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
I rarely do this because there is so much rubbish out there but I'm
going to recommend a movie. Writer Director Alex Garland has done an
amazing job, it's beautifully shot, fantastically lit, intelligently
written, brilliantly cast. the edit is original and brave, as is the
direction of the edit, There is nothing superfluous, to the contrary
it' has a sharp Zen like quality, clearly the application of a
disciplined mind.

The movie is's self is engaging, thoroughly watchable, the characters
are simple and yet layered with complexity. The film strikes the
perfect balance of not spoon feeding and not dumbing down but not being
too arty or intellectual just for the sake of it. 

Best seen in a cinema I reckon.
<|_=00=_|>
A reclusive CEO of a leading technology company hires a young whiz kid
who works for him to test his latest development, a highly advanced
android called Ava. Specifically he is tasked with using the Turing
test on her to establish if her AI is sufficiently convincing to pass
as human.

Despite contributing several scripts for the screen, this is writer
Alex Garland's first directorial effort. It's a hard sci-fi movie which
examines concepts and ideas above everything else. That's not to say it
isn't dramatic or even thrilling because it is both of those things as
well but the focus is squarely on the science fiction speculation, and
this is a very welcome thing. The central concept that it examines is
artificial intelligence. How we interact with AI as humans, as well as
how a seductive machine could in turn manipulate us. The very well
written script poses philosophical questions such as is there moral or
immoral ways to treat AI. It also considers if sometimes part of being
human is that we sometimes subconsciously want to be fooled by an
illusion, if it is attractive enough.

In many ways Ex Machina resembles last years Under the Skin. Both
feature highly advanced female non-humans. In the earlier film Scarlett
Johansson played an alien, here Alicia Vikander plays an android. While
the very small cast all acquit themselves very well, it is Vikander who
stands out in the film's most challenging role. It's a nuanced
performance that captures the fine balance between the human-like and
machine. Not only this but the marvellous special effects compliment
this performance to create a very distinctive character. Aside from the
effects, this is probably quite a modestly budgeted film, as the small
little-known cast and limited sets suggest. But these restrictions have
been used to the films advantage, as the unknown cast surprise more
given little is known of them and the restricted setting gives off a
claustrophobic feel which works well, while forcing us to focus in even
more on the ideas being put in front of us. A scene setting ambient
soundtrack additionally creates just the right off-kilter mood to
accentuate the events. But it's ultimately the very good writing that
underpins the success of this film. All-in-all, very impressive science
fiction for those who appreciate the genre's more cerebral side.
<|_=00=_|>
Ex Machina is easily one of the greatest movies to ever tackle the
ideas of artificial intelligence. Everything about the movie is put
together in an elegant and intelligent way, the movie tackles the ideas
in a mature way. There are no elaborate human vs machine fight scenes
or military overlord presence, instead Machina focuses on the ethical
questions that come from 'creating life'. And though the premise might
sound unoriginal or derivative, it's when they mix in the idea of
sexuality that the movie becomes something different.

From the moment, we arrive at Caleb's estate something seems very
off-putting, he clearly is hiding something. And for the entire movie,
as we explore his compound things slowly get more off-putting and
stirring before boiling over during a wonderful climax. The deception
between the two human characters is what makes the movie exciting, both
men seem to be playing one another for unknown reasons. And as Nathan
begins to understand more and more of what really is taking place in
the house the tension rises and secrets unfold. Characters motives and
beliefs are slowly unraveled and some seem more logical than others,
but that's why the movie works, every character has sound reasons for
their actions. The movie makes strong arguments for both sides of the
A.I. equation.

However, the movie might be too slow for most audience members, as I
said this is a movie where ideas shine not action sequences. Not only
do ideas shine, but the acting out of the three leads is incredible to
say the least! But it's this move (moving away from action and letting
ideas flourish) that makes Ex Machina shine and worthy of being labeled
a future sci-fi classic!
<|_=00=_|>
Having wrote the stories to some of his biggest hits, first-time
director, Alex Garland, has spent a lot of time with the masterful
Danny Boyle: working on such films as The Beach, 28 Days Later and
Sunshine. Now, writing and directing his feature debut, Garland proves
that he has been paying attention and taking tips as he tackles a
complex sci-fi thriller about artificial intelligence.

Featuring Domnhall Gleeson and Oscar Isaac, the stars of the upcoming
Star Wars adventure, plus talented newcomer, Alicia Vikander  who
stars in three films this month; Ex_Machina is quite well profuse.

Jumping right in, we are introduced to Caleb (Gleeson), a twenty- four
year old coder who wins a chance to spend a week at his CEO bosses
luxury house. Travelling for many hours over his private estate via
helicopter, he arrives at a remote mountain villa. Where he meets
Nathan (Isaac)  a prodigy programmer, who at the young age of thirteen
created the foundations of Bluebook (our equivalent to Google and Apple
combined). Now, middle-aged and extremely wealthy from his companies
growing success, he lives a reclusive life at his custom-built smart
house, which is insulated by intelligent automated features and
billionaire gadgets.

Addressing the concept that life is different at this remote location 
which is more of a research facility - Nathan invites Caleb to be part
of an experience during his one week stay. An experiment that he
classes as the greatest discovering of mankind; to test the world's
first artificial intelligence system, which is housed inside the body
of a beautiful robot girl (Alicia Vikander).

Of course, the AI' concept has been tackled many of times in
contemporary film - most recently in Wally Pfister's directorial- flop,
Transcendence. In reality, the closest thing we have to it is Siri.
Yet, Garland's vision of AI is extraordinarily superior and
physiologically mesmerising to witness.

For Domnhall Gleeson, the premise of his character is similar to that
of his characters once played in Frank, or About Time  one that is
thrown into a portal of unknown weirdness, and often out of his depth.
Over the seven days of testing, Caleb must perform the scientific
'Turing test' on Nathan's AI' system, nicknamed Ava; the idea of which
is to deduce God-like theories and philosophical concepts  do robots
feel a consciousness? If disguised, would you know it is a robot? Is it
ethical?

It's heavy material for Garland, but no stranger to psycho- thrillers,
he explores futuristic concepts as if AI's really do exist. Equally,
the craft behind Ex_Machina is exceptional. A beautiful piano theme
plays methodically, with often mix of silence setting the unique
atmosphere. Whilst mainly set inside Nathan's enclosed premise (with no
windows), the camera work is mounted aesthetically.

Now, in her third film this month, Alicia Vikander shows that she is
able to tackle any form of performance with extreme clause. Whether she
is a young-women coming of age during World War One (Testament of
Youth), a love-interest of a criminal (Son of A Gun), or now a robot,
she is outstanding. Fluxed movements, and facial expressions through
seamless CGI, she steals all scenes present.

Compressed into an impressive 1 hour 48 minute running time -
considering the ground it has to cover for such a serious sci-fi drama,
Ex_Machina, still manages to find time for sublime humour. Taut,
fascinating and simply intriguing. Alex Garland's debut film comes
highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Ex Machina has a simple plot. Nathan, a reclusive programming genius,
treats one of his employees to a week at his remote estate with Ava, an
enigmatically charming robot who's meant to wow (or seduce) her visitor
into believing she has human tendencies. Although this appears to be no
real challenge, both Nathan and Caleb, the unlucky employee,
egotistically assume they control the experiment. The rest is a
foregone conclusion. As much as I like Nathan and his dancing Japanese
servant, style is no substitute for ideas. Where other films might
explore the potential ironies or paradoxes of artificial intelligence,
Ex Machina reduces the human condition to basic animal attraction. When
not quoting philosophers or scientists, Caleb is a voyeur and Nathan is
the inventor of elaborate sex toys. Ava just happens to be a
spectacular example.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is kind enough to lower our expectations right from the
beginning, by showing that the people behind it didn't think very hard
about anything. First, If you wanted to test a robotic AI to see
whether it could fool a human, wouldn't the obvious way to do it be:
build it to look completely human, and then have it interact with your
unsuspecting human subject? Wouldn't it be much more useful that way,
to see whether your human subject figures out that the girl is a robot?
And wouldn't it make much more sense to have a psychologist be your
human subject? At the very least, choose someone who has a bit of
maturity rather than someone who looks and acts like he's barely out of
his teens.

Second, and far more importantly, using AI to power humanoid robots is
like using an aircraft carrier to go fishing, or a thermonuclear bomb
as a reading light. The reason some of the smartest people on the
planet (including Elon Musk, Stephen Hawking, and Bill Gates) are so
cautious about AI is that it would be a world-changing event, much more
so than the atomic bomb or nuclear fusion. See, the thing about AI is
that it would be orders of magnitude faster than the human brain, and
while we improve ourselves in tiny increments over generations that
span decades, an AI could improve itself in huge leaps and bounds, in
iterations lasting nanoseconds. The rate of development would be
exponential (think going from a calculator to a supercomputer in a
matter of seconds, and who knows what after that). So once you've built
your AI, you can just sit back and let it develop its own software and
hardware until it's more or less godlike. Whoever controlled it would
have, effectively, a pet god that he could use for whatever he pleased
- world domination, colonizing the galaxy, solving mankind's problems
like the energy crisis, the pollution problem, climate change, and so
on. Even if you just wanted to build convincingly human sex bots, all
you'd have to do is instruct the AI to do it. You would literally have
the power to do anything possible at your fingertips. So to show that
someone has developed an AI only to use it as maids/sex slaves, shows a
horrifyingly limited imagination and a complete lack of understanding
of AI.

Moving on, the acting is about as convincing as your average high
school play. All the characters' behaviour is just extremely
implausible. When the nerdy protagonist learns he's going to meet an
AI, his reaction is to accept it without much ado at all, as if the
inventor had told him he built a better mousetrap. Any real person
would be bubbling over with questions: What form is it in? What
technology is it built on? Does it have a gender? Is it self-aware? How
do I interact with it? And so on. Instead, this programmer pretty much
goes "Oh, cool. You're kind of a god. What's for dinner?" Any normal
person would be bursting with excitement and begging to see the AI
already, but not this guy.

The tech-billionaire villain is even worse. He doesn't look smart, he
doesn't talk smart, he doesn't act smart. His character development is
so ham-handed it's painful. Hey, this guy yells at his pretty maid,
everybody hate him, OK? These subtle clues are hammered into us over
and over again. It would have been much more interesting to keep us
guessing whether he was a bad guy until the end, but subtlety is
obviously not the director's forte. This tech billionaire is so stupid
that he has no safety overrides built into his robots. Something like a
code word that would shut them down, a software check that prevents
them from harming humans, or at least make them so physically weak that
they couldn't harm you. You'd think that that would be the first thing
anyone would think of when building a sentient machine, but this
supposedly super-smart inventor blithely has a robot handling knives
around him, preparing his food and sleeping with him. Even when Ava has
escaped and he's clearly threatened enough to arm himself with a
dumbbell rod, he's completely comfortable with turning his back on his
other robot.

The programmer isn't to be outdone in stupidity. If you went to meet a
robotic AI, and there was a glass wall between you and it, and the
glass had a large crack in it as if from a strong impact, wouldn't you
think to ask how that happened, and whether the AI is dangerous? Not
this guy. And if you were a tech billionaire, wouldn't you have the
glass replaced? Not this guy.

The conversations are so inane they're unbelievable. "What's your
favourite colour? Do you like me? How do I look?" I've had more
interesting conversations with dogs than this supposedly intelligent
programmer has with a strong AI with access to all the world's
knowledge.

The nerd is so nerdy he falls for the AI girl within about 60 seconds,
never mind that parts of her body are transparent plastic with
electronics and machinery glowing within. He's also not smart enough to
wonder how the super-smart tech billionaire hasn't figured out that the
power outages have to be related to his robot, or to realise that it's
not a good idea to have conspiratorial conversations in a house that
has electronics bulging from every orifice. Also, security cameras
would obviously be hooked up to the mains power with no backup, right?
The production quality of the VFX is surprisingly high for what looks
like a low-budget film, which makes you wonder how they failed so badly
on the story and acting bits. Perhaps all the money went into cameras
and CGI. Or maybe into bribing hordes of people into writing positive
reviews and downvoting the negative ones.
<|_=00=_|>
Rarely have I felt myself the "one-eyed man in the land of the blind"
as when I was reading the plethora of positive reviews for this film.

What so many critics praised as "minimalist", I found shallow: A
one-dimensional, clearly ego-maniacal villain creates a flawlessly
sympathetic A.I., with whom our equally-flawless protagonist cements an
attachment. That, plus a fairly pedestrian game of cat-and-mouse
between our 'tagonists, followed by an unsatisfying ending, defines the
bulk of this film.

What so many critics praised as "thought-provoking", I found
nonsensical. The chance to parlay the dichotomy between evolved vs.
designed intelligence through Ava's character was squandered by the
decision to render her ultimate motives entirely inscrutable: a
contrivance that may have been---but should not have been---the point.
There were times when this film showed real promise, the potential to
give real weight to the blurred line between human and synthetic
self-awareness that will doubtless challenge us in years to come...
but, alas, in service to its Pollock-painting motifs, it chose easy
ambiguity over genuine insight.

Superficially, this film is meaningful: It certainly tackles the
questions of intelligence, of person-hood, of agency and of sentience
in a world where all of the above can be designed by a psychopath.

Unfortunately, those questions are damn important ones to tackle...
and, in the end, "Ex Machina" in no way does them justice.
