
As others that have commented around the web... I'm a 130 pilot in the
Coast Guard. Having said that, and being the skeptic I am, I went
expecting the over-the-top cheese factors. There was some cheese, but
all in all, not much.. and the film was pretty accurate.

I watched the trailer again today. After seeing the film yesterday,
I've realized the trailer gives the impression the movie is nothing but
rescue after rescue action scenes. This isn't the case.

The movie is truly more character/story driven than action. The inner
struggles both Costner and Kutcher are dealing with.. Kutcher's is
revealed further into than movie than Costner's is.

Of course, there is a minor love story.. no surprise there. But for the
most part, the movie tells the tale of two lives that come together,
and after some time, help each other heal old wounds.

As girlie as it sounds, Costner and, as much as I try not to like him,
Kutcher do actually work quite well together and compliment each other
very well in the movie.

As critics have stated, you've seen it all before.. Top Gun, Officer
and a Gentlemen, etc. But what movie hasn't been remade a million
times.

I can recall only one F word being spoken.. and can't really recall any
other language.

The movie is 2+ hours, and for some, may tend to get a little long
towards the end.

You'll laugh, you may cry, but I can honestly say, it was worth the $4
I paid.

I hope you enjoy the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to an advance screening of this movie thinking I was about to
embark on 120 minutes of cheezy lines, mindless plot, and the kind of
nauseous acting that made "The Postman" one of the most malignant
displays of cinematic blundering of our time. But I was shocked.
Shocked to find a film starring Costner that appealed to the soul of
the audience. Shocked that Ashton Kutcher could act in such a serious
role. Shocked that a film starring both actually engaged and captured
my own emotions. Not since 'Robin Hood' have I seen this Costner: full
of depth and complex emotion. Kutcher seems to have tweaked the serious
acting he played with in "Butterfly Effect". These two actors came into
this film with a serious, focused attitude that shone through in what I
thought was one of the best films I've seen this year. No, its not an
Oscar worthy movie. It's not an epic, or a profound social commentary
film. Rather, its a story about a simple topic, illuminated in a way
that brings that audience to a higher level of empathy than thought
possible. That's what I think good film-making is and I for one am
throughly impressed by this work. Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
I attended an advance screening of this film not sure of what to expect
from Kevin Costner and Ashton Kutcher; both have delivered less than
memorable performances & films. While the underlying "general"
storyline is somewhat familiar, this film was excellent. Both Costner
and Kutcher delivered powerful performances playing extremely well off
each other. The human frailties and strengths of their respective
characters were incredibly played by both; the scene when Costner
confronts Kutcher with the personal reasons why Kutcher joined the
Coast Guard rescue elite was the film's most unforgettable emotional
moment. The "specific" storyline was an education in itself depicting
the personal sacrifice and demanding physical training the elite Coast
Guard rescuers must go through in preparation of their only job &
responsibility...to save lives at sea. The special effects of the
rescue scenes were extremely realistic and "wowing"...I haven't seen
such angry seas since "The Perfect Storm". Co-star Clancy Brown (HBO's
"Carnivale" - great to see him again) played the captain of the Coast
Guard's Kodiak, Alaska base in a strong, convincing role as a leader
with the prerequisite and necessary ice water in his veins. The film
wonderfully, and finally, gives long overdue exposure and respect to
the Coast Guard; it had the audience applauding at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
I work at a movie theater and every Thursday night we have an employee
screening of one movie that comes out the next day...Today it was The
Guardian. I saw the trailers and the ads and never expected much from
it, and in no way really did i anticipate seeing this movie. Well turns
out this movie was a lot more than I would have thought. It was a great
story first of all. Ashton Kutcher and Kevin Costner did amazing acting
work in this film. Being a big fan of That 70's Show I always found it
hard thinking of Kutcher as anyone but Kelso despite the great acting
he did in The Butterfly Effect, but after seeing this movie I think I
might be able to finally look at him as a serious actor.

It was also a great tribute to the unsung heroes of the U.S. Coast
Guard.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to The Guardian, but when I walked into the
theater I wasn't really in the mood for it at that particular time.
It's kind of like the Olive Garden - I like it, but I have to be in the
right mindset to thoroughly enjoy it.

I'm not exactly sure what was dampening my spirit. The trailers looked
good, but the water theme was giving me bad flashbacks to the last
Kevin Costner movie that dealt with the subject - Waterworld. Plus,
despite the promise Ashton Kutcher showed in The Butterfly Effect, I'm
still not completely sold on him. Something about the guy just annoys
me. Probably has to do with his simian features.

It took approximately two minutes for my fears to subside and for my
hesitancies to slip away. The movie immediately throws us into the
midst of a tense rescue mission, and I was gripped tighter than Kenny
Rogers' orange face lift. My concerns briefly bristled at Kutcher's
initial appearance due to the fact that too much effort was made to
paint him as ridiculously cool and rebellious. Sunglasses, a tough guy
toothpick in his mouth, and sportin' a smirk that'd make George Clooney
proud? Yeah, we get it. I was totally ready to hate him.

But then he had to go and deliver a fairly strong performance and force
me to soften my jabs. 

Darn you, ape man! Efficiently mixing tense, exciting rescue scenes,
drama, humor, and solid acting, The Guardian is easily a film that I
dare say the majority of audiences will enjoy. You can quibble about
its clich√©s, predictability, and rare moments of overcooked sappiness,
but none of that takes away from the entertainment value.

I had a bad feeling that the pace would slow too much when Costner
started training the young guys, but on the contrary, the training
sessions just might be the most interesting aspect of the film. Coast
Guard Rescue Swimmers are heroes whose stories have never really been
portrayed on the big screen, so I feel the inside look at what they go
through and how tough it is to make it is very informative and a great
way to introduce audiences to this under-appreciated group.

Do you have what it takes to be a rescue swimmer? Just think about it
-you get to go on dangerous missions in cold, dark, rough water, and
then you must fight disorientation, exhaustion, hypothermia, and a lack
of oxygen all while trying to help stranded, panicked people who are
depending on you for their survival. And if all that isn't bad enough,
sometimes you can't save everybody so you have to make the tough
decision of who lives and who dies.

Man, who wants all that responsibility? Not me! I had no idea what it
was really like for these guys, and who would have thought I'd have an
Ashton Kutcher/Kevin Costner movie to thank for the education? 

Not only does The Guardian do a great job of paying tribute to this
rare breed of hero, but lucky for us it also does a good job of
entertaining its paying customers.

THE GIST 

Moviegoers wanting an inside look at what it's like to embark on a
daring rescue mission in the middle of the ocean might want to give The
Guardian a chance. I saw it for free, but had I paid I would've felt I
had gotten my money's worth.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised to find this movie showing as a sneak
preview in my local theater.

We have all seen this plot line before (Top Gun, GI Jane, An Officer
and a Gentleman) but a good script still works. This story is basically
about the training of a Coast Guard rescue team with a couple of side
story lines. Kevin Costner plays a highly successful rescue team
leader, Ben Randall, who is forced into heading the training team after
a tough mission. The movie takes us through the rigors of the training
process and the personal stories of both the Costner character and that
of Jake Fischer, played by Ashton Kutcher. I am happy to say that
Ashton is great in this part.

There are no great surprises in this movie and you will probably
realize what is coming long before it arrives. However, the use of
humor, the exploration of the toughness of the training and the fun of
watching Ben Randall "do his own thing as a trainer", kept me riveted
and thoroughly entertained. I really enjoy watching a movie that makes
the entire audience laugh out loud, gasp here and there, and clap at
the end as a tribute to the movie.

We all had a good time (despite a couple of tough moments in the
movie)and, I think, you will too.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen this story before but my kids haven't. Boy with troubled past
joins military, faces his past, falls in love and becomes a man. The
mentor this time is played perfectly by Kevin Costner; An ordinary man
with common everyday problems who lives an extraordinary conviction, to
save lives. After losing his team he takes a teaching position training
the next generation of heroes. The young troubled recruit is played by
Kutcher. While his scenes with the local love interest are a tad stiff
and don't generate enough heat to melt butter, he compliments Costner
well. I never really understood Sela Ward as the neglected wife and
felt she should of wanted Costner to quit out of concern for his safety
as opposed to her selfish needs. But her presence on screen is a
pleasure. The two unaccredited stars of this movie are the Coast Guard
and the Sea. Both powerful forces which should not be taken for granted
in real life or this movie. The movie has some slow spots and could
have used the wasted 15 minutes to strengthen the character
relationships. But it still works. The rescue scenes are intense and
well filmed and edited to provide maximum impact. This movie earns the
audience applause. And the applause of my two sons.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a Petty Officer 1st Class (E-6) and have been in the USCG for 6
years and feel that this movie strongly represents the Coast Guard.
There were only a few scenes that were far fetched. The most
far-fetched was when PO Fischer (Kutcher) went down inside of the
sinking vessel to pull the vessel's captain out of the engine room...
that would never happen. Swimmers are not allowed to go inside of any
vessel no matter the circumstances. Second, the Command Center
(supposedly in Kodiak), it looked more like a NASA command center... we
don't have any gear that hi-tech. Third, the Captain of the Airstation
would not be running the search & rescue cases with like 10 people on
watch. In reality it would be an E-6 or E-7 as the SAR Controller and
maybe 2 other support personnel like an assist SAR Controller & a Radio
Watchstander. Otherwise the movie was dead on, I think they should have
incorporated more of the other rates in the CG and their roles in
search & rescue instead of just Aviation based rates. Some of the
scenes from "A" school reminded me of my days their and the dumb stuff
I did and got in trouble for in my younger days.
<|_=00=_|>
Our family (and the entire sold out sneak preview audience) enjoyed
"The Guardian". Kevin Costner and Ashton Kutcher gave convincing
performances as the fictional helicopter rescue swimmer characters Ben
and Jake. After seeing this movie, you can't help but imagine how
difficult it must be to graduate from the USCG helicopter rescue
swimmer school and one day take part in real rescues.

Even though this is a fictional movie, it delivered rather convincing
virtues of team spirit, dedication and bravery exhibited by all the
members of the actual U. S. Coast Guard.

The special effects used to create the rescue scenes were incredible.
You actually felt like you were taking part in a real rescue.

I feel the movie could have been made without the "Hollywood" bar scene
(when you see the movie, you might agree) since the real Coast Guard
does not condone such behavior. 

Very entertaining, very action packed, definitely worth seeing. Thank
you, U. S. Coast Guard and the REAL helicopter rescue swimmers, "So
Others May Live". I'd highly recommend this movie to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
If you had asked me how the movie was throughout the film, I would have
told you it was great! However, I left the theatre feeling unsatisfied.
After thinking a little about it, I believe the problem was the pace of
the ending. I feel that the majority of the movie moved kind of slow,
and then the ending developed very fast. So, I would say the ending
left me disappointed.

I thought that the characters were well developed. Costner and Kutcher
both portrayed their roles very well. Yes! Ashton Kutcher can act!
Also, the different relationships between the characters seemed very
real. Furthermore,I thought that the different plot lines were well
developed. Overall, it was a good movie and I would recommend seeing
it.

In conclusion: Good Characters, Great Plot, Poorly Written/Edited
Ending. Still, Go See It!!!
