
Certainly not for everyone...but if you appreciate completely unique
and intense cinema...check it out. I am so impressed by Ashley Judd,
who I always liked, but had no idea of her range and courage. The film
is very disturbing...I would describe it as a dark comedy that gets
darker and darker and darker...calling it horror is too limited
although there are horror elements to it. It reminds me of Cronenberg
or early Polanski (Repulsion). But comparisons don't really do it
justice. It's exciting to see that there are directors that still have
guts. I was exhilarated and disturbed by the end of this film. I
recommend it highly to anyone who wants something different and
powerful.
<|_=00=_|>
Many viewers have been bashing this film, and for the mainstream crowd
expecting an obvious crowd-pleaser focused on one genre, I can
completely understand why you didn't like the film. However, the film
goes much deeper than it appears to be. Many people are expecting a
horror film, and are confused by the intense monologues and the dark
comedy mixed in with the self-inflicted torture and self-defense from
the outside world, which are clearly characteristics of a psychological
thriller. The movie was not meant to have any "heroes" or "villains",
but it was meant to show everyday people in an everyday world, with one
woman so lonely, so desperate to have someone who can love her, who
finally finds someone who can read her, that she sets aside the fact
that he is a paranoid schizophrenic who believes that someone is out to
get him. After many hours and days spent together, cut off from
society, she gradually becomes one with him, his madness slowly sinking
into her mind as she joins him in his own delusional world. The film is
not your average film, and will understandably turn off or confuse many
viewers. Please note, however, that the film deals with an extremely
serious illness that can't be "prettied up" or be made simpler to try
and understand what's going on. It just presents itself in a
straight-forward, natural form, which is usually tougher to understand
and accept, much like the film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Exorcist's William Friedkin makes a strong comeback directing Bug,
the screen version, adapted by original playwright Tracy Letts, of his
off-Broadway powerhouse about trailer trash paranoia that rocked the
Village's Barrow Street Theater two years ago. The Barrow Street Bug
didn't require any big names or high production values  the stage
didn't even have a curtain  for its startling effects. Twenty dollars
got you an evening of strange thinking and unpredictable behavior. The
NYTimes called it "the season's wildest ride"; The New Yorker's sketch
suggested it was the best play in town. This time there are new faces,
all fine, though they couldn't be any better than the original stage
cast. Here is Harry Connick Jr. playing Goss, a brute menace and an
unwelcome surprise for Agnes (Ashley Judd, replacing Shannon Cochran in
the original stage cast). Goss is Agnes' ex, turning up unannounced
after two years in stir. 

This obviously wasn't a play that needed a lot of opening up.
Claustrophobia is one of its most essential elements. Friedkin wisely
keeps his film version simple and boxed-in, adding sweaty closeups that
show just how intense and brilliant the acting is, and just a couple of
shots of other locales. 

Agnes resides in a sleazy motel room on the edge of the desert -- which
is the play's set -- and works in a bar with her lesbian friend R.C.
(Lynn Collins). In the film we get a glimpse of the crowded dive. We
also see the motel from outside and above. Agnes, for whom life is an
obvious struggle, is tormented by the loss of her little son, who
disappeared years ago in a supermarket. Later R.C. brings an odd,
seemingly recessive guy named Peter (Michael Shannon) whose gradually
emerging story becomes the film's/play's focus. He claims to be a Gulf
War veteran. A fifth character is a man who claims to be a doctor,
played by Brian F. O'Byrne. 

Bug is about process, and the process is Peter's taking over of Agnes'
fragile mental and physical world and the destruction of his own in a
compulsive, creepy, but somehow exhilarating display of sleazy folie a
deux. The insects that he sees everywhere, inside and outside, parallel
the contagion of his diseased mind, which sends out invisible tendrils
that envelop Agnes. Letts' astonishing dialogue metes out madness in
gradually increasing doses. The fun is watching this happen and looking
for transitions in the seamless and maniacally clever writing.
Friedkin's filming gives a kind of lunar, hallucinatory edge and the
action's intensity bursts from the screen. But all in all, nothing
could outdo that evening at the Barrow Street Theater. It's surprising
that the whole thing works almost as well in a movie, but where it
doesn't, you realize that theater has certain powers found nowhere
else. 

The main US reviewers who check stuff out at Cannes and assess its
commercial potential (Hollywood Reporter, Variety) think Bug is a bust.
The title seems to remind them of Saw, and they judge this to be at
best a cheap horror movie that can draw in an audience only through
sensational trailers. That is shortsighted. Bug is horrific, but it's
mainly a psychological study, executed with a wildly audacious taste
for theatrical surprise and an uncanny ability to calibrate progressive
character revelation. Friedkin appears to have returned to his roots
here in dealing with a play and handling it with a fine minimalism. It
is true certainly that an unsophisticated audience may find Bug
disappointing, or too talky. But its real audience is the savvy Barrows
Street kind, art house folks not unfamiliar with Beckett, Pinter, or
Sam Shepard.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see the movie in a French theater showing a part
of the Cannes film festival selection.

If you know William Friedkin mostly for his gritty thrillers or The
exorcist, Bug might be a surprise: a single location, 5 characters, no
car chase, but still a lot of ambiguity and psychological exploration.

Bug actually reminds me of the first Friedkin movies, also based on
plays and more interested in character study than spectacular effects.
It's all the more striking that Bug looks like a young man's movie,
filled with energy, experimentation, absurd humor and a genuine sense
of artistic freedom. Bug tries a lot of things, doesn't always succeed
but remains an intense exercise of style. Recommanded for everybody who
enjoys a good surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
*** CAUTION CONTAINS SPOILERS****

The commercials and previews for "Bug" are very very misleading. Most
people go in expecting a sci-fi/horror flick. This movie has nothing
supernatural or extraterrestrial about it. It's about drug induced
paranoia and how insanely out of control it can get. "Bug" has more in
common with "Requiem For A Dream" than say "Invasion of the Body
Snatchers."

Essentially "Bug" was about crystal meth addiction although I can't
recall the word meth ever being used. There were cocaine references but
I think those were curveballs so not to point out what was really
happening. Think about it. White trash can't afford cocaine but they
usually can afford crank, especially if they are cooking up their own.
Crank lasts much longer than coke and a user needs a lot less. That
there was always some powder on the mirror is more apt to be true about
speed then coke because cocaine lasts a shorter amount of time hence
runs out much faster... That Friedkin didn't feel the need to show them
smoking/snorting every other scene was really quite clever. Here are
several major hints.

1- Meth heads are uber conspiracy theory paranoid sorts. Crystal meth
destroys the brain and induces schizophrenia/paranoia. The amazing
rants that they go on is very true of what full blown tweakers do. Not
to mention seeing imaginary bugs and picking at themselves to the point
of self-mutilation.

2- Peter's diminished sex drive and then the ability to perform as well
as he does is typical of users. When Peter brings back one small muffin
for each of them for breakfast that's because tweakers don't eat much.
When Agnes says 'we've only been together once but I would rather just
talk/listen to you than be anywhere else' is also something a speed
freak would say. They're spun and they're doing the tweaker thing
together.

3- Goss keeps mentioning that she's lost weight and the disheveled
condition of her room is also very telling. And when Goss sees the
powder he makes a comment, tastes it, but does not snort up. You really
think a convict like Goss would pass up a line of coke?

4- Full blown paranoid tweakers have been known to wall paper their
entire apartments/ houses with aluminum foil. That the writer used this
amazing element speaks volumes.

5- Crystal meth is cooked up with bug spray and gasoline. When Doctor
Sweet sits on the gasoline can, he make a comment about knowing what
the gas is for. I think Friedkin was hoping that the audience would
figure it out instead of scratching their heads wondering when Agnes
was going to turn into a giant spider...
<|_=00=_|>
OK, cheesy joke, I know, but actually the movie really did get to me. I
picked up this movie at Hollywood Video, I was pretty curious on what
it was, if it was a thriller, horror movie, or drama, it's pretty much
a mix of all. But also William Friedkin had directed the film, William
isn't just the director of The Exorcist, he's an incredible director
who has many works of art under his belt. So I rented Bug and watched
it last night and I have to say that this was an incredibly disturbing
psychological thriller that really freaked me out. I mean, these
performances were absolutely amazing, most people are raving about
Ashley Judd's performance, but what about Michael Shannon? In my
opinion, he had the best performance, he was so intense and he really
draws you into the scene and the story.

Agnes is a woman who is pretty much on her own, she lives in a cruddy
little motel, has an abusive boyfriend who is out of jail and won't
leave her alone, and also lost a son a while back in a grocery store.
She's also a drug addict. When her friend, R.C., brings her friend,
Peter to Agnes's house, Peter and Agnes pretty much click from the get
go, but when Peter tries to get away from Agnes, he confesses the
reason why, that he was part of an army experiment and he's escaped.
She asks him to stay anyways, that she's so lonely, and he does, but
soon they have delusions of a bug infestation and start destroying each
other over something that they swear they can see and is watching them.

The story is so beyond intense, I couldn't believe how much this film
got to me. Especially when they reveal the ultimate damage that Peter
does to his own character, it sent shivers down my spine. Ashley,
Michael, and Harry all brought in great performances and really made
this story incredibly interesting and scary to watch. The whole ending
was beautifully shot by Friedkin, I was a little disappointed with how
quickly it did end, but thinking about it, I'm not sure if there could
have been a better ending, but you'll have to see what I mean when you
watch it. I would recommend this film, I don't think many users are
understanding what it's about or are just focusing on the wrong things
here, but this movie I warn you is not for the faint of heart.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Bizarre, stylish thriller is one of the best big screen tales of
creeping paranoia in many years.

Depressed Oklahoma woman living in a rural motel meets a mysterious
drifter who claims the army has planted deadly insects in his body as
part of a shady experiment. But that's only the beginning...

While the trailer for Bug may make it seem like a David Croenberg-type
parasite horror film, Bug is really much more of a dark psychological
character study. Never the less this is a compelling and truly twisted
little shocker. The plot starts off leisurely, but ultimately builds to
some intense and hauntingly good sequences. The characters are
convincingly well played, the atmosphere is brooding, and the direction
is slickly done.

Ashley Judd is terrific as the lonely woman who becomes infatuated with
the stranger and Michael Shannon does a strong performance as the
ex-soldier who fears he is part of a sinister conspiracy. Harry Conick
Jr. is also great in his supporting role as Judd's abusive ex-con
husband.

While Bug may disappoint gore-hounds, those that enjoy a good mind-trip
will find much to savor in this warped little film!

*** 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
I'm kind of left on the fence after this one. This is not a film that
one 'enjoys,' as it is a portrait of insanity and insanity's effects on
the vulnerable. Here are some pretty cool things about it:

1. The setting is entirely done in a motel room, and it is interesting
to see how it changes throughout the film. 2. The main character,
Agnes, changes from a vulnerable, lonely woman into a psychotic
self-destructive woman who severs ties with everything but her
boyfriends delusions. Once again, another interesting change to see
take place. 3. It forces the audience to make decisions as to who to
empathize with and why. And to be honest, the basis for reality is not
established until the end.

Like I said, it's a beautiful film to watch, especially since it is
shot in a small space with a lot of fixed angels, very little panning.
The lighting is something pretty spectacular, as well. The acting is
dead on, and the characters are believable and consistent throughout
the movie. The only significant criticism that I can bring against this
film is that empathy with the characters is challenged by the radical
nature of their circumstances.

This movie is worth a watch, but don't expect jumpy-type horror or
unnecessary gore. This one is meant to make your question, to puzzle.
So if you don't like that, you won't like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film today at the AFI Film Festival in Los Angeles. I had
seen some previews of it once and thought it looked interesting. I
wasn't sure what to expect -- a horror flick, a spy/government secret
thriller, science fiction. My basic contention is the movie was a study
of folie a deux, a disorder in which two (or sometimes more, but
generally just two) people with a close relationship share a psychotic
delusion. While only one person in the pairing is psychotic, the other
develops psychosis -- including delusions, paranoia, even
hallucinations -- by virtue of their closeness to the psychotic person.
Often, such couple will be isolated and avoid contact with others. I
came across this phenomena years ago while researching some other
subject, and thought about it tonight while viewing the film. Aggie's
final speech about how incidents in her life have tied together with
Peter's arrival was an over-the-top example of how she now shared his
paranoia. Generally, folie a deux develops between an extremely close
couple (such as a married couple), but Aggie's loneliness, misery and
fear (due to the recent release of her con ex-husband), along with her
drinking, smoking crack, and doing blow, accelerated their feelings of
and dependence on each other.

That said, the movie started out spookily (you're paranoid from the
word go) and it held my interest for about two-thirds of the time. The
acting was good all around. Unfortunately, it really lagged towards the
end. I kept waiting for someone from the motel to come in (probably
curious about all the noise) and have them both hauled off to an
institution. Or for RC to call someone. (Surely she must have realized
that her friend Aggie was now certifiably nuts.) And when I saw how far
gone the situation had gotten, I predicted the ending of the movie
about twenty minutes before it happened. Frankly, I had lost interest
in the characters at the end, but I'd still rate it a 7 for an
interesting concept, energetic directing, good performances.
<|_=00=_|>
Ha ha ha ha I liked it, and I'm not laughing because I thought the film
was funny, even thought I can understand how some people would laugh, I
was too considerate of how the people in the film would be feeling and
why they would be reacting the way they did, and didn't find it
laughable. The reason I'm laughing now, is because I liked it (the
film). I've read comments in the IMDb forum for Bug, and some have
written comments such as "WORST FILM EVER" and "IT'S NOT A HORROR
MOVIE". So I of course wondered if maybe they were right, and that I
too would dislike it... but I didn't hate it, I thought it was
brilliant. I can not understand how anybody could find this boring,
it's anything but boring. And I would now say it was a horror movie. I
don't know what to compare it to, yes maybe I do, while watching it, I
could see Hitchcock, the Exorcist, Twin Peaks, for whichever reason
those entered my mind a couple of times while watching. It had an old
fashioned and quite beautiful way about it.
