
I saw this a couple hours ago in Fullerton, CA. I was a reader of the
comic, and am a fan of what we've seen from Marvel lately. This movie
is just what I wanted, and what I expected.

Ray Stevenson is perfect as Frank Castle, and everyone else is at least
good enough for an action movie. Dominic West is over the top as Jigsaw
- which is what Jigsaw should be! A horribly disfigured mob boss with a
vendetta is not a subtle thing to begin with.

As for the "respectable" critics' complaints: 1. Violence: Of course
it's violent! What part of the title "Punisher: War Zone" implies
peaceful conflict resolution? He's not the "Admonisher". The gore and
violence is not at the level of a "Saw" film, but it is high. It is
rated "R" for a reason.

2. Dialogue: I think the critics have been spoiled by "Dark Knight" and
"Iron Man". Those were comic-book movies with extraordinarily good
dialogue. "Punisher: War Zone" is no worse than a "Predator" or "Rambo:
First Blood". Not great, but not awful. This is not supposed to be
"Hamlet".

3. Script: The story moves along well, and when there's a break in the
action (which isn't very often), the film doesn't drag- it's always
going somewhere. Not perfect, but good. Much better than the critics
have made it out to be.

All in all, a good time, and one that I'll buy and re-watch as soon as
it comes out on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Just came back from watching the movie and I was definitely pleased. I
was a bit worried that I would be let down after reading some of the
early reviews, my suspicious about the reviewers not understanding the
character were confirmed though.

Stevenson is a brilliant Frank Castle, the guy is a tank in this movie,
shredding through his opposition just like a on screen manifestation of
the character should. The critics complaining about the gore prove them
unfit in being tasked with stepping anywhere near the film with a
pencil and paper, doling out stars or thumbs.

While Im afraid the film will not get the critical recognition it
deserves, with the majority of critics not understanding the character,
I as a fan of Castle say I'm thoroughly pleased by the work the entire
cast and crew have put forth.

While I agree that the movie was loyal to the source material and worth
my dollars, there was one main area I think should have been retooled.

Jigsaw and Jim's accent is over the top, and in the end took away from
the character, especially in the case of Jim.

At a glance

Pros: Unapologetically Punisher Level Brutality Stevenson is a
compelling Frank Castle Movie pacing is great

Cons: Clich√© accents Could have used some more dialogue from Frank

Overall: 8/10

Bottom Line: If you are a punisher fan, you're in for a blast
<|_=00=_|>
The Punisher has been portrayed twice on film so far. First in the 80's
flick with Dolph Lundgren and more recently in the 2004 flick with
Thomas Jane. While both were OK in parts the movies as a whole just
weren't that good. Being a huge fan of the comic series I have always
felt that they had never pushed the violence far enough for a Punisher
film. He was always to restrained. So how did the third attempt at a
Punisher film work? Lets see...

Punisher: War Zone starts a few years after the death of Frank Castle's
family. Since than he has been killing mobsters at a steady rate and
the police see him more as a help than a hindrance..although they won't
admit it. When the Punisher fails to kill an up and coming mobster
named Billy Russoti, Billy decides to start a war against the Punisher
and he won't quit until the Punisher is dead.

While the story may seem fairly basic it serves its purpose perfectly.
This is the ultimate Punisher movie. There are more bullets and blood
in this movie the most action movies and the action never lets up.

Acting is well done by everyone. While I like Thomas Jane as an actor I
think Ray Stevenson is a better Punisher. Dominic West is good as
Jigsaw, but I felt he might have hammed it up a bit in a few scenes.

Lexi Alexander has made the quintessential Punisher film that dares to
show you the gritty world of the Punisher without shying away from all
the gore. I can only hope that a sequel will be on the way soon.

Fans of the Punisher comics and extreme action lovers will eat this up,
but know that this is not a movie for kids or people who can't take a
ton of gore.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Roger Egbert was spot on when he wrote - ""The Punisher: War Zone" is
one of the best-made bad movies I've seen". Viewed independently, it is
an ultimate men's movie and more fun to watch than all Steven Seagal
movies put together. This movie does not hold back on anything like the
wimpy Thomas Jane's Punisher, who was more of a schemer than a
punisher. That movie had its own reason to be liked in that it was a
brave move to bring an ultra-violent (Punisher has even used nuclear
bomb to kill an otherwise unkillable villain), gory and very dark
comic, which only had a cult following, to the mainstream cinema. While
that movie did not feel like a comic book adaptation at all, the story
being pretty ordinary and plot being too heavy, war zone is much closer
to the source material. Corny situations had corny, and extremely
violent solutions. Villains were perfectly cast and did feel like
Punisher villains and got what they deserve from a Punisher. The
accents were distracting in the beginning, but once you get used to
them (which is pretty fast, since everyone uses a fake sounding and bad
accent), you stop noticing it and focus on action, which is plenty. Ray
Stevenson was a perfect cast and comes across the perfectly believable,
imposing and intimidating killing machine as the Punisher. The
much-maligned first scene actually set the tone for rest of the movie
for me, when Punisher goes on a killing spree on the dining table,
killing everyone on the table, men-women alike, in different, but
extremely bloody way. That is Punisher for me. Perfect movie for fans
of Punisher and violent action movie fans in general.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Huge Punisher fan. This movie destroys the other two in my
opinion. I was expecting a piece of crap from the reviews I read and
boy were they wrong. This movie is a non stop kill fest. It shows
everything from heads exploding to decapitations. As a horror fan I
love that. As a Punisher fan that's the way it should be. I wanna see
the scum of the world get their heads blown off, not cut off at the
last second like most movies do. Ray's portrayal of the punisher is
perfect. In the first scene of the movie when he's wiping out the
dinner guests and he breaks the neck of the mobsters wife I knew I was
in for a treat. Loooooooooooved IT.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from this tonight and I was not disappointed! This is a
better adaption then the 2004 version and 1989 version. For me, Ray
Stevenson is THE PUNISHER!!!!I like Dolph and Tom's interpretation are
good (though Tom Jane's performance is more of a Taxi Driver character
then a Punisher), Stevenson was the best and showed a wider range of
emotion, a great voice, fighting, guns, and all together look and feel
of Frank Castle.

This is one of the best adaption of a comic in a long time, the back
story for Frank Castle was right on target and though Jigsaw's origin
is modified its a better origin. The casting for all characters was
great (way to go Wayne for Microchip and Dominic for Jigsaw). Everyone
fit perfect.

The story for the movie felt like a comic book, as The Punisher takes
out criminals and how Jigsaw and his brother Looney Bin Jim wants
revenge makes for great entertainment. But I do not want to spoil
anything for moviegoers, if you enjoy comics, action, or revenge
movies, check this one out.

For all the people who reviewed this movie and either bitch about the
violence or didn't like this incarnation of The Punisher had no idea
about the character nor even read the comic book or didn't start
reading until after the 2004 version. So this is a great tribute to
almost all incarnation of the Punisher in the comics and even a nod to
the 1989 version too.

Though I like all the Punisher movies, I liked the 1989 version better
then 2004 version, I think this is better then the 1989 and best
adaption (it may seem like a broken record, but I feel it is
necessary).

By all mean check out one of the best action and comic book movie in a
long time. This brings back what action should be like. I too hope this
will have a good box office return, as well for rentals and sales to
bring more sequels! The producers are already in talks in for more and
Barricuda could be the next villain!

Way to go Lexi and Ray and everybody involved working on this film,
thank you for bringing back the PUNISHER!!!
<|_=00=_|>
OK, folks...here's the deal with this movie...if you go to the video
store and you're looking for something deep and meaningful, Punisher:
War Zone is going to seriously disappoint you. If, however, you are in
the mood for just senseless violence, blood, guts, exploding heads, and
a lot of cool ways to watch people die, like in Friday the 13th, then I
can PROMISE you Punisher: War Zone will NOT disappoint! Go into it and
take it for what it is and what I've told you it is. You're not going
to come out of this movie with some new profound sense of the universe
or some profound understanding--again, if that's what you want, stay
far, far away from this movie. But if you wanna see a lot of people get
killed and dismembered in a lot of different, gruesome bloody fashions,
then this movie is right up your alley! A dude I know told me this, I
went into this movie knowing this, and was NOT disappointed in any way,
shape or form--it's what I wanted and it's what this movie delivered,
and that's why I'm giving this movie a perfect 10 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
Ray Stevenson did an amazing job portraying exactly how the Punisher
should have felt. You were able to get a real glimpse into why he does
the things he does. No remorse for the wicked and evil. 

This film was action packed and had a different feel for the storyline.
Dominic West did an outstanding job as the Jigsaw and there was always
a feeling that he was going to get his. A nice surprise was Doug
Hutchinson who did a good job as the physcotic brother. The film flowed
very nicely and had made sense which is very important in a film that
is this fast paced. There was never a moment where there was to many
screen cuts or to much camera motion. It flowed very smoothly.

The Music alone is worth seeing this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Taken on its own terms, "Punisher: War Zone" is everything it is
supposed to be: excessively violent, larger than life, fast paced, and
almost always loads of fun. War Zone doesn't take itself seriously and
it doesn't ask the audience to do so, like the '90 and '04 films did.
It never ponders the morality of its hero any more than necessary; it's
The Punisher for gods' sakes.

The casting of Ray Stevenson as Frank Castle is, in a word, perfect. He
is commanding, intimidating, and always fun to watch. If you can't
enjoy Stevenson as The Punisher, you shouldn't even be watching the
damn movie. Though the film is shot tongue-in-cheek, Stevenson stays
consistent but is almost always interesting to watch. The supporting
cast, led by Dominic West as Jigsaw, also shines in several scenes.
There are no weak links in the cast to undermine WZ the way, say, John
Travolta undermined the already-suffering Thomas Jane-"Punisher" movie. 

There are many reasons to fault the first two Punisher pics for perhaps
giving the character a bad rap, because the critics sure seem to be
roasting this more than necessary. One perplexing review comes from
Roger Ebert, who seems to praise the film in several ways while
outright damning it to the same exact two star rating he applied to the
first two (far dumber and less entertaining) Punisher movies: "The
Punisher: War Zone is one of the best-made bad movies I've seen. It
looks great, it hurtles through its paces and is well-acted. The
soundtrack is like elevator music if the elevator were in a death
plunge. The special effects are state of the art. Its only flaw is that
it's disgusting."

I don't see what's wrong with that. This isn't an average mainstream
film. This is an extremely gory film, with a level of violence that is
rarely seen on the big screen outside of the "Saw" movies. And yet it
remains entertaining, even comedic in how far it goes. The superb and
colorful cinematography, action choreography, sound effects, score, and
editing make "Punisher: War Zone" a must for (dark) comic book fans and
action film junkies.
<|_=00=_|>
First and foremost, I'd like to state my earnest interest in The
Punisher character. I can honestly say he is my favorite superhero of
them all, largely because of the realistic nature of the character,
which is more easy to relate to, IMO.

I will begin by saying that I had very low expectations for the
PUNISHER: WARZONE going into the movie. With the impression that the
movie was just gonna be a mindless shoot 'em up kind of flick, I was
not far off from my prediction.

There's not much to speak of about the plot other than to say that it
was massively inadequate and was there just for the sake of having a
plot. The action, albeit good and entertaining, was way over the top,
and at many times pointless. Now don't get me wrong, I love a great
action flick, but there comes a certain feeling of annoyance when the
plot is practically ignored just to have Frank slay a herd of people.
In my mind, and I'm pretty sure many of you will agree, the action is
supposed to SUPPLEMENT the plot, not the other way around. This movie
failed to do that.

I also must say that the character development was utterly horrible. I
knew nothing of Microchip or Soap's motivation. Why not explain that
Micro's reason for helping the Punisher is because his son was
murdered? Why not spend more time on Frank's motivation? It seems the
action is all the producers cared about. Soap and Micro were virtually
ignored and seemed to just be thrown in there to remind the audience
that they were still watching the Punisher. There wasn't an ounce of
reason as to why we should care for The Punisher's accomplices. There
was no sympathy for Micro's death. If you're gonna kill a character
like Micro, at least try to develop him some.

Furthermore, the acting was terrible. Ray Stevenson seemed allergic to
emotion, and his wordless role in the first 30 minutes of the movie
left me unconnected with the character and his purpose. Tip of the
iceberg. I actually looked around at the 1/5 filled theater to see if
anyone was buying the scene when Donatelli's wife was threatening to
kill Frank. And don't get me started on Dominic West's New York accent.
Yeah, definitely not one of the film's bright spots.

All in all, I think the movie was just really bad. The action was way
over the top. It was entertaining, yes, but at many times, needless. It
is undeniable in my eyes to see the glaring flaws in the movie's lack
of the well rounded storyline and character development that Thomas
Jane's version provided. It seemed that the makers of WAR ZONE took
everything the '04 version was missing and took it way too far to the
point that the story was ignored. Yes, I wholeheartedly prefer Jane as
the Punisher, but it seems both movies were undeniably hindered by poor
writing. I recommend this movie purely for brainless action. Otherwise,
thumbs down.
