
Fans of Sci-Fi have had to withstand much worse offerings than this
movie. I was entertained and the movie kept my attention. I had,
originally, just started it as "background noise", but had to rewind it
because it began to draw my attention. I watched the making of and,
considering the the budget they had to work with, the fact that they
used models and matte instead of CGI, the special effects could have
been a lot worse. I felt the acting was believable and I didn't see any
obvious holes in the plot. I'd watch it again and would recommend it to
a fan of Sci-Fi. 

I've never understood the indignation of some of the posters on these
boards. The movie wasn't over-hyped and is, honestly, quite enjoyable.

I think the cast,crew, and special effects teams all deserve a thumbs
up.

Just my humble opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film because Ron Perlman's in it and i'm always buoyed
by seeing a man who looks like a gorilla act so well. I had no idea
it's based on some kind of role-playing franchise, and frankly, i'm
glad i didn't. To be honest i probably wouldn't have watched it if i
did. After having just sat through it, i thought i should add a
positive review because well, i liked it. I was a good film. The Mutant
Chronicles did kind of remind me of Lord Of The Rings (bite your lips
fanboys) because it got the plot out of the way pretty early on and the
rest of the film was essentially spent trying to achieve the one
valiant act that will save the day/world. Whereas LOTR is spread out
over nine hours of character development (boy howdy are they noble,
eh?) and beautiful scenery, The Mutant Chronicles chooses the less
trodden path of gunfire, disposable characters and mutants. The film
takes place in 2127 in a dystopian future where two of the four
corporations who run the world accidentally let loose an ancient evil
into the world. Cue some wacky bloodthirsty mutants overrunning the
general population and generally being a nuisance. As the rich
survivors escape to Mars, a small group of nihilistic ass-kickers and
religious nuts travel to the centre of the Earth to stop the
catastrophe, showcasing an amazingly short grieving process along the
way. Just about every location is computer generated. Rather well i
thought, though i know there are those who strongly disagree. The
shortcomings of the CGI are helped along by a very dark look and feel
with a fairly monochrome palette being preferred with the exceptions of
some reds and blues (think Sin City). The Mutant Chronicles may well be
a minor stylistic triumph, not letting itself get bogged down in plot,
character development and all that important stuff. It seems as though
the film makers settled on making it a pretty cool movie. And it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Yep its derivative, full of clichés, underdeveloped characters, but its
still great fun and full of B movie goodness. Visually stunning and
imaginative production design and great special effects combine to
create what will no doubt become a minor cult classic over time.

I thought I was watching a video game after 5 Min's, partly due to the
filming process (100% digital) and the colours (or lack there of). The
blood is almost scarlet which give it an almost erotic feel.

Tension is used effectively and the film moves quickly enough, Thomas
Jane is still good to watch (cant forget his performance in The Mist).
Also Sean Pertwee puts in a solid performance as well. There is plenty
of action, some great fight scenes, and some creepy moments - but
that's your lot! Keep your expectations low and you'll enjoy it for
what its! The whole retro mix of world war I and future technology is
truly worth watching alone, and cant wait to see this in HD.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect much when I saw the title, the name mutant in the title
is never a good sign, but I was pleasantly surprised. The atmosphere
was really great, being a historian I really enjoyed the weird mix of
Great War, cyberpunk and post-WWII United States. Reminded me of Sky
Captain and the World of Tomorrow, just not that shiny. The feeling of
hopelessness and despair was clearly visible. The characters were
typical, no big thumbs up for this one, but not shallow. People who
watch movies for the little things like the tone of blood and the color
of guts might be disappointed, but for an average movie-goer like me,
who goes to the movies for entertainment, not slaughterhouse
atmosphere, the special effects were nice. For everyone who still
hasn't seen it, the atmosphere is the key in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
At the end of the Ice Age, The Machine came from the outer space with
the purpose to change men into mutants. However, a hero defeated the
device and a great seal was laid over The Machine. In 2707, the
depleted world is ruled by four Corporations: Mishima, Bauhaus, Capitol
and Imperial that are in constant war. During a battle between Capitol
and Bauhaus, the great seal is broken and The Machine works again
transforming soldiers and civilians in hordes of mutants. A small part
of the population escapes to Mars, leaving millions of people behind.
The man of faith and leader of an ancient brotherhood Brother Samuel
(Ron Perlman) is a believer of God and the Chronicles, a bible about
the mutants. With the city under siege of the mutants, he visits the
Corporations' leader Constantine (John Malkovich) asking for an
aircraft and twenty men for a suicide mission to destroy The Machine,
planting a bomb and a detonator following the knowledge of the
Chronicles. He recruits the tough Major 'Mitch' Hunter (Thomas Jane);
the Bauhaus Lieutenant Maximillian von Steiner (Benno Fürmann); the
keeper of the Chronicles Severian (Anna Walton) that is under a vow of
silence; the gorgeous and lethal Corporal Valerie Duval (Devon Aoki);
Corporal Juba Kim Wu (Tom Wu); Captain John McGuire (Steve Toussaint);
and Corporal Jesus 'El Jesus' de Barrera (Luis Echegaray). Together
they become the last hope of Earth against the evil mutants.

"The Mutant Chronicles" is a stylish adventure with a dark
cinematography that recalls "Dark City" and "Metropolis" and
interesting concepts of war in the trenches (like in World War I) and
riveted flying machines (burning coal, like the ships in the beginning
of the Twentieth Century). In the end, "The Mutant Chronicles" is
neither a masterpiece nor a bad movie as indicated in many reviews;
just an entertaining and stylish movie, with reasonable story and
acting and great cinematography and especial effects. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Era da Escuridão  Mutant Chronicles" ("The Age of
Darkness  Mutant Chronicles")
<|_=00=_|>
I can only imagine that the actors here had nothing better to do for a
few weeks.

A straight to video movie that managed to get a cinema release on the
strength of the actors involved.

I gave it 4 stars because I like the style of the movie, computer
noirish. It starts out quite interesting but as soon as the real plot
starts up it all goes to hell in a hand-basket. The plot is full of
logic holes so big you could march the Capitol army through it.

Wait for the DVD, wait till it comes out on budget DVD, wait till your
mate buys it and then borrow it.. wait till it comes out on TV.

In response to some posters who said they see no plot holes.. We are
talking about one machine up the mountains, it spews out mutants, who
can only walk or run, they can only replicate by dragging their victims
back to the machine (at dragging pace) and yet they take over the world
in a matter of weeks! There's one scene where the hero's are attacked
in the air by a mutant controlled craft, but you can tell by the
surprise on the captains face that this was a first so the mutants
didn't use aircraft very often.

The crown on the illogic head was the hero's going back to the machine
after what, a week? a month? a year? how long does a marching mutant
horde take to conquer the world? anyway who do they find, still being
dragged to his doom but a character (Mr Pertwee) who was one of the
first to meet the mutants when they attacked, what a blatant and dumb
plot device to get the main hero away from the rest of gang.

And of course there is the fact that the first time the mutants arrived
they were repelled by sword wielding knights. After 2,000 years of
military evolution it seems nothing really beats a good old sword.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard not to notice the parallels between "The Mutant Chronicles"
and "Aliens": a team of soldiers, plus a few outsiders with deeper
knowledge of the subject, are sent on a suicide mission (not to outer
space but) deep beneath the surface of the earth to destroy (not
bloodthirsty alien monsters and their source but) bloodthirsty zombie
mutants and their source. The film is not quite as good as "Aliens",
but it's still a serviceable B-movie. Visually it succeeds in creating
its own, richly detailed and impressively designed, world: that
includes the mutants themselves, who have one of their arms extended to
a huge claw that can cut human flesh to pieces. The action itself,
however, is a bit too chaotically edited: sometimes things happen and
you don't have enough time to see how they happened, or a battle takes
place and you're not absolutely sure who is hitting whom. This seems to
be a recent trend in action movies (the latest Bond film "Quantum Of
Solace" really suffers from it), and I hope they reverse it soon. The
cast is good, though the characters are definitely not as memorable as
those of "Aliens". Ron Perlman's best moments come near the end, while
Devon Aoki and Anna Walton are unconventionally attractive and fully
combative female leads. (**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes, seemingly simple movies, panned by most of the critics, just
grab me. This was one of them. It takes place in the future, but I was
gripped from the get-go with World War II trench-like warfare going on
at the start. It feels very much like a good war movie at this point
with a compassionate officer going up against some kind of Nazis, but
things are not really that especially with the steampunk machines and
unconventional firearms. It goes even crazier when some long-dormant
evil is awakened. After that strong opening, we delve summarily into
that society and some kind of prophecy that involves a desperate quest
to save the world by a small group of heroes. It sounds pretty cliché,
right, but weirdly it works here and the characters are compelling
despite not being characterized much. It's the type of suicide mission
story where the "heroes" get killed of one by one, and not always in
the most heroic manner. However, you kinda grow attached to the
multi-ethnic group, want to learn more about them (some intriguing
snippets but not much) and their sometimes noble self-sacrificial acts
make them likable. I truly enjoyed the heroism on display, but can't
say I was particularly emotionally moved by any of the deaths. I also
liked very much how the plot sometimes played with our expectations
(witness the mother and child trying to evacuate) despite some logical
flaws that bugged me a little.

The mutants in question are not super-heroes (like X-Men) or standard
"zombies", and the title is misleading because it's not really "their"
chronicles. Thee mutants are antagonists and besides attacking and
being killed, they don't do much. The movie is apparently low-budget
(at 25 millions, I'd say medium-budget) but it really doesn't show. You
have stunning special effects, decors and vehicles that don't really
look computer-generated (and sometimes actually weren't). It's not to
say everything is realistic, it's a bit stylized and otherwordly like
300 for example. There were some really spectacular scenes and vistas.
The action scenes were exciting and overall I thought the directing was
very good. The movie was paced well, and I was never bored. One thing I
didn't really care much for was the religious claptrap, but I've seen
worse.

Please note however that I didn't watch the shorter (by around 10
minutes) director's cut that cuts some of the religious stuff but also
a few nice character moments. I did check the differences and suggest
watching the theatrical non director's cut version if you can. Before I
forget, you do have some bad-ass heroes kicking major butt in
satisfying ways (less and less guns and more sword fighting as it
goes), and some enjoyable b-movie one-liners by Thomas Jane's
character. So it's certainly not the type of movie you haven't seen
before, but it's masterfully executed, beautiful in a post-apocalyptic
way, but most of all it feels right. A rental is definitely recommended
and myself, I'm even thinking of buying it.

Rating: 8 out of 10 (Very good).
<|_=00=_|>
So, going into this film, I was not expecting to much. However, after
watching this film, I can say I was impressed. There were good actors
with Okay rolls. I also have to say, this is what CG effects and
backdrops were used for, to give low budget films the interesting
environments and effects without killing the budget.

To say the least about this film, it ranks as a top notch SyFy Channel
movie. Yes, there are a couple movies on that channel that were good
films, and this would be comparable, at the least, to them.

Admittedly, you don't really "feel" for many of the characters, other
than Sgt. Hunter. His character, of course, was the primary of the
bunch, so that makes sense. The remainder of the cast is just for
support, and add for drama.

I have to say, I would like to see a sequel, considering how the film
ended. I won't go into that as not to spoil anything.
<|_=00=_|>
*** WARNING! Will contain spoilers! ***

*sigh* When I first noticed that this film was in the making, I was
really excited. "Mutant Chronicles! Wow! That'll be so awesome!"

I was sadly and greatly disappointed.

The only good thing with this movie is the footage. It got a nice and
dark style to it. Like 300 and Sin City. It works really well with the
setting.

The acting is pretty mediocre. Given the actors I'm a bit surprised.
They must've read the script after they signed the contract and thought
"Oh crap! What have I gotten in to?" during the making.

And now for my biggest disappointment.

The roleplaying game it's based on have one of the most cool and gritty
settings in the field. Admittedly it has borrowed things from Cyberpunk
and Warhammer 40,000 but they managed to do something new with it.

Alas, the makers of this film just HAD to change almost everything
that's good about it.

1: The "enemy" in the RPG is a nasty otherworldly force (that's heavily
influenced by Clive Barker's stories like Hellraiser) that awake and
start to attack/convert the solar system and every living soul there
in.

In the movie it's a machine(spaceship) that create the necromutants
(more about them later) for some unknown reason.

2: The Brootherhood in the RPG is a religious order that's wealthy
beyond belief and have a say in pretty much everything. The fight the
enemy by interrogating heretics and traitors in the most excruciating
way, use the most advanced weapons known to man and some specialized
form of "magic"

In the movie they are an obscure monastic order that have guarded the
secret of the machine since it was entombed (by themselves). They've
also written a book about it (The Mutant Chronicles!) that's really
detailed implying that the old monks were down there taking notes
before burying it. They fight the enemy by giving a few chosen men and
women a sword each and a device (that they themselves removed from the
machine all those years ago) so that they could put it back and
hopefully blow it up. *sigh* It's so stupid it almost hurts.

3: In the RPG the enemy have a wide range of monstrosities. From the
almost almighty Cenobite-esqe leaders to the lowly necromutants. The
necromutants are just that. Mutated human corpses given new "life" by
dark and arcane technology.

In the movie the necromutants aren't necessarily dead before they are
"turned" by the machine. Not an issue really, but it makes the little
"necro-"part of the word kind of redundant. And the process of turning
is just stupid! The necromutants toss the "converts" into a pit where
they fall down onto a conveyor-belt and is strapped in. Then some sort
of beam scald them (why?) and a neadle is inserting something (nanobots
or poison?) that will give them the pointy-right-hand-weapon-thingy
that's standard issue. This process can easily be stopped by a tough
individual (and guess what? The hero is one of them! Surprize!)

I can go on but it's pointless. They screwed the background material so
bad that every other movie in this genre will get a bruise.

If you've never heard of the RPG or never seen a "get into the
monster's lair to kill it"-movie, or if you just want to look at the
setting, you might get some enjoyment out of it.

But I didn't.
