
I find it hilarious that so many people are gnashing their teeth and
saying,"it's just a copy of The Lion King". This type of story didn't
start in 1994 - the plot is ancient, with even Disney admitting that it
was based on some of their earlier films, Hamlet and - get this -
Exodus from the Bible (not including the fact that it was alleged that
the whole movie was stolen from "Kimba the White Lion, but that's
another matter). So, the genre is several millennia old. If people are
going to accuse "Barnyard" of plagiarism, they should at least check
the original source material before throwing stones.

Anyway, onto the film. I thought it was lightweight, but had some very
funny parts. Thankfully, my children (13 and 8) are able to separate
fact from fiction, so the images of bulls with udders, getting loaded
on milk, stealing a car and evading the police whilst joyriding
probably won't have too much of a negative impact on their lives.
However, if, when they're older, they fall into the company of a gang
of cows with attitude and a propensity for car theft, I'll know who to
blame.

Some people really need to lighten up.
<|_=00=_|>
My daughter and I....ages 8 & 55 saw this over the weekend and I just
don't understand why there are so many negative reviews. We both
laughed most of the time...except when Ben died, and my daughter looked
up with a serious look on her face and said..."that's sad isn't it
dad". I wish my son would've been along to see the lesson about being
responsible. I'm recommending it to everyone I see! Udders on bulls,
cows stealing a car...I say let's not look to deep and just sit back
and enjoy the stupid humor....farmer under the tree...to funny. Do we
really need to be so critical of the quality of animation? I didn't
even notice anything about it, I was too busy just enjoying what I
thought was a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Hello - I normally love movies. I'm 19, I have seen many and dislike
only one or two. This one though, the second it finished, I had to pull
my sister (who had wanted to see it) out by the arm and I burst into
tears of laughter as soon as I got out because it was such a
ridiculously awful movie. 

Why it was awful: - all the cows had udders, especially bothersome were
the MALE ones with udders - none of the characters were unique or
engaging, except perhaps the main Coyote Dag - the idea of cows keeping
watch against coyotes is just ridiculous - the 'funny' moments are
repetitive and become simply a sequence to out-do the last one - the
themes of working together, which should have been present at the end,
were nonexistent. Instead, people get the impression: Well, I'll take
this all upon myself, and in this case I was lucky that my friends
decided to back me up without my knowledge - all the moments similar to
the lion king (as mentioned below) were beyond corniness, even for a
kid's movie

and...the worst of all... IT PARALLELS THE LION KING IN EVERY SINGLE
WAY Responsible father figure who is killed by Coyotes (the Coyotes are
essentially the Hyenas, with Dag, the lead Coyote, being the equivalent
of Scar) The farm falls into chaos, Odis (the cow, though basically
Simba) wants to play around, and is shocked that his dad died, believes
it was his fault (even though in this movie, it WAS his fault),
confronts the Coyotes and gets an ass whooping, after which Dag tells
him to leave, and on the verge of leaving, Odis somehow decides to go
and save some chickens and his friends back him up (by complete
surprise of course, he leaves without knowing they will come help him). 

Other things taken from Lion King: stars moving around as signs, father
figures referring to stars/signs in a mystical loving way, the
obviously circularness of how the father Ben found Odis and took care
of him, and how at the end Odis' love interest gives birth and he has a
similar experience. Birth at the end? GOOD GOD, what the hell... and
even similar type music, which seems completely tacked on at the end
because it is completely different from all the previous music.

Honestly, this is the first movie I have ever seen where I really WAS
rooting for the bad guys - I never understood what other people were
saying, until now.

BOTTOM LINE: Don't waste your time to go see this. Convince the kids
not to see it, and re-watch the Lion King. Either that, or take them to
see the Ant Bully, which was creative and artistic.
<|_=00=_|>
My boyfriend and I decided to go see this movie after we heard on the
radio that it was a good movie worth seeing, even up there with "Cars".
Within the first ten minutes of the movie, I was horrified. For
starters, the cows, which should be females, had male voices. Then I
realized they really are supposed to be guys. I put the transvestite
cows aside for a bit and tried to keep watching the movie with an open
mind, but it was just so corny I couldn't help but shake my head. I
probably checked my phone about ten times to see if it was almost over.
The plot was decent, if not predictable, but it took way to long to
reach its point. I was having trouble sitting through it, and I'm 19.
The children in the theater were actually getting up and running up and
down the aisles. I felt like joining them. But my biggest problem with
the movie was that it was loaded with drinking references, not to
mention that the cows/bulls actually hot wired and stole a car, then
drank and drive, broke into a boy's house to push him out of bed (he
deserved it though), then ran away from the cops, whom the writers of
the movie made look like terrible people. This isn't the kind of thing
I would want my kid to be exposed to. There's way too much of that in
the real world, if I wanted my child to watch guys drink and drive and
lead cops on a chase, I'd pop them in front of the 10 o'clock news.
Children's movies are supposed to be an escape from reality, not an
escape into ridiculousness. What happened to the good morals and happy
endings that children's movies used to boast? That's why Disney's old
movies, like Beauty and the Beast, Lady and the Tramp, The Little
Mermaid, etc. are classics. If you want your kids to see a great
cartoon with basically the same plot as "Barnyard", rent "The Lion
King". You can get a great story without the awful drinking and driving
and grand theft auto references. The writers of "Barnyard" were
obviously trying to continue the great trend of making a children's
movie that a parent could enjoy as well, but they did so in very bad
taste. I would never take my kids to see this, and I suggest you save
your money and watch something else.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah, I'll admit, after a glut of recent animal-centric CGI productions
("Over The Hedge," "The Wild," "Ice Age 2," "The Ant Bully," "Chicken
Little," etc.), I had little hope for this Paramount effort, but I
gladly admit I was wrong. 

This was actually a pretty decent animated feature; and while the
artwork wasn't the greatest (do male cows really have udders, and if
so, do those udders look like baby bottle nipples attached to plumber's
helpers?!), the story was good and the vocal characterizations were
right on.

Ben the Cow (voiced by Sam Elliot) is the leader of the barnyard when
the farmer is gone (why a cow has this role, and not a bull, a dog or a
horse is never really answered). His sworn duty is to protect the
animals from a pack of vicious coyotes, led by the vile Dax (David
Koechner, "Anchorman").

Ben's favorite saying is, "A strong man stands up for himself, a
stronger man stands up for others." Ben's adopted son, Otis (Kevin
James, "King Of Queens"), however, has no such loyalties or philosophy,
and is a living example that cows just want to have fun. That includes
partying all night in a literal barn dance, ice surfing off a tall
mountain with his idiot friends, or going for a joyride and
"boy-tipping" with some "Jersey cows." Otis is definitely one non-stop
party animal.

When his father is attacked by the coyotes while trying to protect the
farm, though, Otis has got some growing up to do Â– real fast. His
relationship with a new bovine, Daisy (Courtney Cox)- who's about to
give birth - also proves to be a major complication.

Sweetly told, "Barnyard," with more than a passing allusion to "The
Lion King," stresses the importance of fathers, friends, and mustering
the courage to do what's right - there's even a couple of good
old-fashioned tear-jerking moments here, as well.

Some small children may be frightened by the intense scenes with the
predators, but, overall, while certainly no "Cars," this will keep both
kids and their parents entertained for 90 minutes or so. And there's
nothing wrong with that.
<|_=00=_|>
Barnyard is an animated movie about life on a farm. It may not be as
good as many other animations but overall I think that this movie was
not a great disappointment. The animation is less detailed and more
comic and cartoony but is still reasonably enjoyable. It has some good
old slapstick violence and some hilarious creatures in. I agree that it
should not be ranked along side Finding Nemo or The Incredibles however
it does have some hilariously funny moments.

This movie stars Kevin James (King of Queens) and Courtney Cox (the
woman we all know from "Friends"). It also has some performances from
Danny Glover and Sam Elliot.

Overall, if you are looking for a mind blowing animated movie jam
packed full of hilarity then this movie probably isn't what you are
looking for but if you are just looking for a decent laugh then this is
worth your while.

-7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Just when I recently wrote about a new animated film being the best
I've ever seen ("Cars"), a week later I watch this movie and now I have
a new number one. I cannot believe how funny, how entertaining this
film was. I give it a nod over "Cars" for two reasons: 1 - it's easier
to watch being a half-hour shorter at 89 minutes, and 2 - it's even
funnier.

This movie, especially in the beginning, provides almost nonstop
laughs, the kind that adults were laugh at probably more than kids
would. This is adult-funny, but don't misinterpret: there is nothing
raunchy in the script. It's not totally innocent, either.

I do wave a "red flag" for small kids. There are a couple of scenes in
here that are definitely too scary for little ones. I am referring to a
pack of coyotes attacking "Ben," the father character seen early in the
movie, and literally killing him. That, and the short funeral scene,
are too intense for impressionable kids. Later, the coyotes return a
few times, too. Those mothers who complained about their little kids
seeing this have a legitimate point.

Nonetheless, for me - and I assume most other adults - the rest of this
is pure entertainment, with a little sentiment mixed into the comedy as
the main character, "Otis" (voiced by Kevin James) learns to grow up.
Otis, however, is one of the funniest characters I have ever seen on
film, animated or not. When he and his barnyard pals are partying it
up, which is frequently, it's just hilarious. With those parties comes
some great music, too. I found myself really into the music, more than
on any animated film I have watched (or heard).

And - not only is the music excellent, the visuals are outstanding. The
movie is filled with rich, deep colors that are stupendous to view.

Whether you are a teen or a senior citizen, I would think you would get
a lot of laughs out of this movie. Some of the best animated films I
have ever seen have come out in the past year or two, and I have to
believe I'll probably watch this one more times than any of them.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe the number of people referring to the lead characters
as 'boy cows'!! there is no such thing people!!!! There are cows and
bulls and all males in the bovine species are bulls and do not have
udders!!!! There was even an actual bull but it was like it was another
type of animal completely! my god this is like drawing human ears on a
cat, boobs on superman, or mickey mouse with blond shirley temple curls
- even in animation it just doesn't work! giving human qualities to the
animals is nothing new & to be expected, but changing their actual
bodies into basically a transsexual figure is bizarre for a family
cartoon - how many people- editors, writers, producers, animators saw
this and didn't know any better or didn't say anything- it is
completely astounding! i'm no snob & I luv animation- simpsons, beavis
& butthead, south park, even ice age & all the other new ones out there
- over the hedge was great- but this is nuts - totally nuts- i could
not accept that that many people are that ignorant & i kept hoping for
a reason for the udders in the film - an explanation - none came - and
at the end when they hold up this little newborn calf & half its belly
is udder & they pronounce 'its a boy' i nearly choked!!!! please,
writer/creator let us in on the joke!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie. The first comments out of my mouth were,
"Couldn't they have gotten this anatomically correct or are they just
that stupid?" I was disturbed the ENTIRE time that there were male
cows. I had a hard time getting into the plot because I couldn't get
over seeing udders on what should have been bulls with NO udders. Male
cattle are bulls and they don't have udders. There is enough ignorance
in the world and especially in America without writers and directors
and producers not taking the time or intelligence to think that what
they are showing to the general public can actually affect them. How
many little children that have never seen a real cow and will never
grow up on a farm or near real cows will grow up believing that there
are MALE COWS WITH UDDERS? Even the woman beside us turned to us and
said she thought that the movie was disturbing showing male cattle as
cows with udders instead of as bulls with no udders.

Like the comment before mine said, his/her children were mesmerized.
Well a movie that can mesmerize can also teach and what are they
teaching? They are teaching a new generation of children to be stupid.
And to be drunks. I do agree with that person that it was unnecessary
to show drunkenness as being fun. Don't we have enough problems with
people destroying their lives with alcoholism and don't we have enough
AAA members and homeless people who have ruined their lives and the
lives of their families without trying to promote drunkenness as fun in
cartoons for a new generation of children? How many lives of child
actors and actresses have been destroyed because they viewed drugs and
alcohol as a way to have fun?
<|_=00=_|>
Words cannot describe how horrible this movie is. Well, maybe they can.
I'll take a stab at it: 1 - Pitiful. Hollywood makes more talking
animals set in graphics. Apparently script and storyline aren't needed
anymore.

2 - Violent. Kids movie but yet one of the characters is viciously
attacked and killed.

3 - Blatantly stupid. The movie is actually depicting the farm animals
as having human abilities. In Nemo, the fish could talk, but for the
most part, they are still fish. We only hear the English as a
translation. In Barnyard, the animals are actually speaking English
that other people can understand.

4 - Unintelligent - No smart story line or even any smart humor. (Ok,
the 13 year old dog on crutches was funny).

5 - Culturally insensitive - The "black" cow is actually played by a
black actress. The pink cow is played by a white actress. The black cow
was playing a stereotypical black person.

6 - Ignorant - No such thing as a male cow that I'm aware of. I believe
we call them bulls? If we are going to expose our children to drek, it
might as well have the simplest facts correct.

7 - Boring and Borish. My 4 year old had us leave after 45 minutes. He
practically fell asleep.

I'm sure this movie will make millions, which is unfortunate, because
it only proves to Hollywood producers that the American public at large
is just filled with suckers waiting to pay 8 bucks just to get some
peace and quiet from the kids for an hour or two. An unfortunate
circumstance. Why should the producers spend real money when the
returns will be the same either way.
