
Here's the deal: It's real, it's heavy, and it's inspirational, but NOT
AT ALL cheesy. Don't like that? Don't see it. I won't say much else. I
will say that Will Smith was shockingly good now that he's paid his
dues with "Men in Black" and "Bad Boys."

I was very happy that this film never got political and blamed Reagan
for the number of "down on their luck" people that were shown, nor was
the race card ever pulled out. It was also refreshing that Smith's
character never blamed anybody for his troubles.

It's very funny at parts, but be prepared for some serious drama. In no
ways is it clich√© or contrived or boring. Let's just say that's it not
Oliver Stone dramatic. This truly is a must see. To say "I laughed, I
cried" would be really lame. It is the truth, though. 

We know that Scorsese's crowning achievement "The Departed" is going to
take the cake at the Oscars, and I won't be complaining. But this movie
deserves to be experienced and taken in by the masses.
<|_=00=_|>
I was blessed to have seen this movie last night. It made me laugh, it
made me cry and it made me love life. 

This movie is a great movie that depicts a love of a father for his
son. Will Smith did an incredible job and deserves every accolade
available to him. His son also did a fantastic job.

There is a great lesson that is learned in this movie and it truly
shares the struggles of everyday life.

This movie was heart felt and touching. It was truly an experience
worth having. Thank you for making this movie and I look forward to
seeing it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate to see this movie in a screening. I really enjoyed it,
and felt that it lived up to the teary and heartwarming trailer. While
the movie has an uplifting "go for your dreams" message, the deepest
theme is that of family.

Will Smith did a great job as the father trying to protect his son from
their circumstances of becoming homeless as much as he can, while at
the same time trying to work in the competitive world of stocks as an
un-paid intern. Jaden Smith was outstanding as the preschool-aged kid
who knows things are going wrong and tries to have a stiff upper lip,
but just can't do it all the time.

The story is very touching and was close to home for me. My family has
been through some tough times, and this movie just reminded me of how
much my parents struggled to provide for our family and yet kept life
fun as much as they could. I am excited to go see this with my parents
as a way to say thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've ever been poor, this movie may be hard to watch. It depicts
poverty in America in gut wrenchingly accurate ways. I've been as poor
as Chris Gardner, and, like him, I've been poor among very rich people
in the Bay Area while trying to work my way up.

Chris Gardner is a loving father and failing businessman. He is chosen
for a competitive internship at Dean Witter, a stock brokerage. The
internship, which offers Chris a very long shot at a better life,
doesn't pay any salary. Chris has to live without a salary for six
months while risking just about everything for that long shot gamble.

Chris is really smart. He can solve a Rubrik's cube in minutes. But,
he's poor. Poverty, like an octopus, keeps trying to suck him down to
the bottom, and make him stay there.

His car is towed. His wife walks out on him, leaving him with a five
year old son. He is arrested for unpaid traffic tickets. He becomes
homeless. He has to rely on a homeless shelter.

All this while, he must appear for work in the morning in a suit and
tie, and be ready to charm some of the wealthiest and most powerful
people in the Bay Area. These people take wealth so much for granted
that two of them stiff him for cab fare.

Having lived through similar experiences, I cringed throughout this
movie. My stomach hurt. I winced. I cried. I hugged my knees to my
chest.

The movie is very accurate, but painful to watch. I hope a lot of rich
people, who think that they understand poverty, see it.

This movie will be politically controversial. First of all, it doesn't
touch the race issue with a ten foot pole. For example, when Chris
appears to stiff a taxi driver for fare (it was really the rich white
guy who failed to pay), the taxi driver never uses the "n" word. In
real life, I think he probably would have.

Is the movie afraid to talk about race, or does it not want to? I don't
know, but I know that some will protest the movie's not shoving race in
the movie goer's face. I'm not one of those people. The movie's
approach to race -- treating it as almost incidental -- worked for me.
As a poor white person, I can tell you that poor white people face the
same obstacles Chris did.

Second, does the movie sell the message that if you work hard, you will
succeed, no matter what, and does that message tell the truth about
success in America? I think that the movie is open to interpretation.
Some will see it as an indictment of poverty in America. The scene of
carefree rich people driving past the line to get into a homeless
shelter is pretty devastating. Other people will become angry because
they believe that the movie's depiction of hard work leading to
rewards, in some cases, is too facile. I disagree, but that's what
you'll hear.

Third, is this movie meant to chastise black men who abandon their
children? Chris is a role model exactly because he moves heaven and
earth to be a good father to his son. This will be debated back and
forth.

The movie has a big philosophical statement to make, that has been lost
on many reviewers, for example, Richard Schickel in TIME.

Chris is shown running throughout the movie. Remember the title of the
movie: "The PURSUIT of Happiness." Chris places emphasis on "pursuit."
Jefferson, when he penned the Declaration of Independence, did not
promise Americans happiness, but only the right to pursue it. Chris
says, at one point in the movie, paraphrase, "I am happy right now. It
is a fleeting moment." We experience happiness in eyeblinks. The rest
of the time we, like Chris, are chasing after it.
<|_=00=_|>
They just don't make many this good. The audience and I cried, laughed,
cheered and applauded. The climactic scene is as powerful and cathartic
as The Shawshank Redemption's golden moment. Will Smith is terrific,
his son Jaden is just perfect, and Thandie Newton puts in a convincing
supporting act. The movie's 1980s San Francisco is absorbing and
authentic without stealing the show.

Best of all, if you are a thinker, this movie will challenge your
visions of family, business and society. On one hand, the film
reinforces the great American myth of the self-made man and equal
opportunity. Myths are not necessarily false simply for being myths--we
can make some of them true by choice, and our belief in this myth still
helps make America great. Free-market capitalism is not the cure to all
ills--surely it is the source of many ills--but it does open social
doors that nothing else can even budge. On the other hand, if you can
leave this movie without a burning indignation that any American child
of any race should have to struggle just to have a place to sleep, you
must be cynical indeed. This movie doesn't get on a soapbox, not even
for a second--it just tells a real-life story that owns you before you
know it.

I hope a few of us will let our motivations own us for years instead of
hours after the movie's over.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I had an opportunity to attend a screener of this movie
last night. We had seen several commercials and a trailer for the film
and we had high hopes, we were not disappointed. Many times "inspired
by" films feel like hard sells or bids for Oscar glory. "Pursuit of
Happiness" is none of that. This is an honest, meaningful film that
will stay with you long after you leave the theatre. The viewer becomes
fully invested in the struggles of Chris Gardner and his son. Will and
Jadyn Smith deserve huge kudos. The real-life father and son dynamic
enriched the film and don't know if other actors could have been as
powerful. Be warned, there are several tissue inducing moments. This
movie is well worth a ticket!
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a fan of Will Smith for years and I have to say this may be
his best film yet! "The Pursuit of Happiness" is just a wonderful
(based on a true) story, full of adventure, hope, and pain. I saw the
movie last night in a packed theater. Big Willie Weekend has returned,
and for good reason! It's a great movie to see during the holidays and
definitely a tear-jerker! Perfect for a date, a night out with friends,
or even with family. If you ever thought Will Smith really couldn't act
(and shame on you!), you'll think otherwise once you see this movie.
You can really feel what he's going through just by looking in his
eyes. And Jaden Smith is too adorable! Their on screen chemistry is
almost unbearable to watch! Go see this movie! Great acting, great
directing, great writing...you won't regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
I was involved with one of the first test audiences almost a year ago,
and came away quite impressed with the acting performances and
heartfelt punch of Pursuit of Happiness. This is easily one of Smith's
best films, as he pours his heart and soul into the main character.
While the plot may remain a bit transparent, it leaves you asking the
question of yourself - how long would you keep battling to get what you
really want out of life? I plan on seeing the film again when it
releases to the general public, and am very interested to see what
changes were made after running it through the test screenings. As I
saw it then, it needed very few, if any, changes.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best films of this year. For a year that was fueled
by controversy and crap, it was nice to finally see a film that had a
true heart to it. From the opening scene to the end, I was so moved by
the love that Will Smith has for his son. Basically, if you see this
movie and walk out of it feeling nothing, there is something that is
very wrong with you. Loved this movie, it's the perfect movie to end
the year with. The best part was after the movie, my friends and I all
got up and realized that this movie had actually made the four of us
tear up! It's an amazing film and if Will Smith doesn't get at least an
Oscar Nom, then the Oscars will just suck. In fact Will Smith should
actually just win an Oscar for this role.!!! I loved this movie!!!!
Everybody needs to see especially the people in this world that take
everything for granted, watch this movie, it will change you!
<|_=00=_|>
If you ever wanted to see a movie that portrayed what really makes a
man, then you must see this movie.

Forget Stalone. Forget Arnold. Forget Bond. Forget all those romantic
comedy whimps. Bruce Willis never had to make this many life
threatening decisions in Die Hard.

Will Smith gives a better performance of toughness here than he did
portraying Muhammed Ali. 

This movie is raw. This movie will force you to examine your manhood.
See if you can look in the mirror after watching this film.

Fathers, don't let the PG-13 rating fool you. This movie is not for
kids. If you let your child see this movie you may regret it. Your
child may never be able to look at you the same way again. Your child
will wonder why you are not more like Chris Gardner.
