
Cheaper by the Dozen II, like most sequels, wasn't as good as its
predecessor but was a safe movie bet, allowing you to fall back into a
familiarity of the first and have some more fun with it. It picks up a
couple years after the first installment with changes abound as the
oldest daughter is now married and pregnant and with everyone growing
up, the Bakers plan to vacation one last time at their old summer
nesting grounds before sending off newly graduated Lurraine (Hillary
Duff) to New York. Ashton Kutcher's out of the picture, while Eugene
Levy enters the scene as Steve Martin's rival, providing some decent
comic relief. Knowing full-well, they can't focus on all twelve kids,
Tom Welling's newfound romance and rebelliousness are underdeveloped,
while the unfortunate mistake is made of shifting the focus to Hillary
Duff's character. Duff basically plays a caricature of herself (or at
least her public image) as a teenage diva, who only worked in the first
movie because she was distilled in small doses. There's also a side
story with one of the younger siblings having her first crush. Like the
first film, this installment relies on Martin's physical comedy for
laughs with some very relatable moments along the way and in the end,
the family wins out over all other forces.
<|_=00=_|>
As a teenage girl, and a fan of the first movie, I found the sequel to
Cheaper by the Dozen to be above my expectations. Usually, movie
sequels are a disappointment, I have found, as was with Shrek 2, for
example, but I found that Cheaper by the Dozen 2 was hilarious and a
really good movie outlining the importance of family and family values.
Yes, it was slightly predictable, as these movies often are, but I
found that was strongly over-ridden by the comedy and 'slap-stick' that
happened throughout the film to make it so entertaining. All the family
had matured since that first film and it was interesting to see what
the children had grown up to be like, and how much they had changed
since the first film. I recommend this movie to fans of the first film,
or anyone who just wants to see a light-hearted, 'feel-good' and
all-over great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I never saw Cheaper by the Dozen (the 2003 surprise hit), and I don't
think you have to see it so get all you can out of the sequel. That is
to say, there is little to get out of it, so don't waste your time
"preparing" for it. Cheaper by the Dozen 2 is a formulaic family comedy
where Steve Martin becomes a father possessed with a drive to outdo
another father, only to be reminded that his family will still love him
no matter if they win the big movie-contrived competition or not. Tom
Baker (Steve Martin) and his wife, Kate (Bonnie Hunt) begin the movie
by attending their daughter's graduation ceremony with his 11 other
kids. Lorraine's graduation (Hilary Duff, no singing this time)
motivates Tom to start thinking about how the family is moving apart
from the customary tight-knit group he remembers, so he wants to take
the family on one last vacation. So they load up the cars and vans and
head out to some lake somewhere in the Midwest (or Canada, depending on
the film's budget), a lake that has seen the evil Jimmy Murtaugh
(Eugene Levy) buy up all of the land and build super lake homes on the
shore. Jimmy and Tom have a history, one that is sort of dumb and is
one of those back stories that can only be written for a story like
this one. I really like Eugene Levy as a comedic actor, but I don't
think he was right for this role. Levy excels in understated humor,
where his character has no idea he's being funny. The role of Jimmy is
over-the-top and clich√© and I didn't think he fit the role well at all.
Carmen Electra plays Jimmy's wife, and she's actually very good at
playing the bimbo wife when given the chance, and the kid actors are
generally good as well. The story is predictable and only mildly
entertaining, but I guess families will enjoy the night out and there
is a certain sweet charm to the final scenes of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
As further proof that I see movies for unorthodox reasons, I didn't see
this movie for Steve Martin, Bonnie Hunt, Hilary Duff, or the presumed
warmth of family values. It was that irrepressible little dancing
machine, Alyson Stoner that sold this movie for me, and I didn't even
know her name until I saw a poster for the 2003 remake. I was hoping
that she wasn't going to be the only reason to see the movie, though,
and I think I might have just lucked out on that agenda.

Tom & Kate Baker(Steve Martin & Bonnie Hunt) want one last chance to be
the big family that they are, before they all go onto their own lives,
so they invite everyone to an old cabin on a lake. Charlie(Tom Welling)
now works in a garage, hoping to open one of his own, and despite his
lack of interest in being part of the Baker Dozen, he jumps at the
chance to go to the lake. Hilary Duff has lost a considerable amount of
weight. Still, she resumes her role as family fashion-plate Lorraine
Baker, who has just graduated from high school, and is on her way to
New York for a job as an assistant for a fashion magazine. Having
dumped her boyfriend from the first movie, Nora(Piper Pearbo) is
married to Bud McNulty(MEAN GIRLS' Jonathan Bennett), and is very
pregnant. Despite this, she still wants this last trip to the lake.
Most of the other kids seem to serve as little more than human
wallpaper, although FedEx(Forrest Landis)inadvertently causes a ruckus
with some fireworks.

Along the way, they meet Jimmy Murtaugh(Eugene Levy) an old
fair-weather friend of Tom's who has his own big family has bought most
of the lake-front, has a bigger house, better toys, and is turning it
into a huge upscale resort similar to The Poconos. He also prides
himself on being a strict disciplinarian, and having been married to at
least three other women before his current wife(Carmen Electra), and
frequently rubs his lifestyle and wealth in Tom's face. Now the family
fun is over, and both are determined to defeat each other's families in
a lakefront competition.

Both Charlie(Welling) and Sarah(Stoner) fall in love with members of
the opposite sex from the Murtaugh family, specifically Anne(Jamie
King) and Elliot (Taylor Lautner). This only complicates the rivalry
even further, although the movie saves itself by not trying to imitate
"Romeo and Juliet." Stoner didn't disappoint me too much in this case,
as she tries to hide her burgeoning girlish nature from those who know
her as the havoc-wreaking tomboy she is. A lot has been made of this
subplot as well as the scene where Sarah is caught trying to steal
make-up and later agrees to let Lorraine perform a makeover on her for
her first date. "Does it have to be pink," she asks. Well if it's a
darker color, it wouldn't make you attractive to the boy, but perhaps
that's just me. In any case, she doesn't really look that much
different afterwards, and although both fathers screw up their date,
like I suggested it's not a big tragedy.

For a sequel, it's fine. Not perfect, but fine. People who complain
about sequel-mania in modern movies often forget that the original had
a sequel too... a somewhat forgotten movie called "Belles On Their
Toes(1952)." Having said that, I hope this second movie is the last.
Interestingly enough, I also saw the remake of "Yours Mine and Ours" on
the same day, but you can probably figure that out by my review of that
movie as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess it's been a long time since Steve played the banjo on the
Muppet Show. I have really enjoyed some of Steve's movies..."Roxanne",
"Being There", etc. but he seems to have lost his touch in this one.

This movie is still very watchable mind you, but the "former" Steve is
missing. It seems there were too many gags (ie; dog & crotch, dangling
from balcony) and not enough real comedy like we're used to from Steve
(such as the nose jokes in Roxanne).

Also this movie has nothing to do with the 1950 "Cheaper by the Dozen"
(or it's original sequel "Belles on Their Toes")...other than 12 kids
of course. It seemed more akin to "The Great Outdoors" or "Meatballs".

There were some cute scenes however: The two kids crush & the dads both
spying on them in the theatre, and nearly giving birth in a canoe I
found amusing. It would have been a lot more amusing had she actually
given birth in the canoe though.

Oddly my favourite actress in this was the little girl (can't remember
her name right now) who had the crush on the little boy. She was really
cute and engaging. I hope she appears in more movies.

Thankfully, I did not pay money to see this (thanks to the wonders of
bittorrent) But I will definitely be buying the DVD. It is a good
family movie, just not up to my expectations for Steve Martin.

Possibly I should not endorse downloading, but movie-going is difficult
where I live as it entails a long, costly ferry trip. Otherwise I
probably would have seen this in a theatre.
<|_=00=_|>
In this sequel to Cheaper by the Dozen. I was surprised by the changes
that were made. All of the original cast was brought back, but there
was a new director and a new them for the second movie: An actual
screenplay.

I loved the first one don't get me wrong, but it's just a good gag
movie with a whole lot of pranks. This second movie explores the
characters and gets at the bottom of what makes them tick. I love the
fact that didn't just try to rehash the first movie to get a second. I
think they started a story line they could make a least one more movie
from.

This movie had it all. I just love Bonnie Hunt, and I can't wait to get
the DVD to see how many lines she added. That lady is hilarious.

In this movie the family leaves Chicago to go back to a lake house.
Which was a nice change of pace. WHile there they are confronted with
the "super" family from their past and competition is the force that
drives this movie.

On a personal note, Hillary Duff was much cuter before she lost that
weight, now she looks hideous! This movie was good! I would recommend
to all ages and surprising enough as a date movie! Enjoy. Disney is
bringing in the big guns this year!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is as stereotypical as a family comedy can get in fact we
have seen so many similar roles from Steve Martin in family comedies
that one cannot honestly expect much from such films and indeed i went
into this movie(as the company demanded i see a pg rated film)
expecting as much.

The good part about the whole thing is that family comedies follow fool
proof formulas and as such it is rare to find a bad one. So we have the
summer release the 2 hot teens, one hot mom (carmen Electra looked
spectacular), the overzealous and protective dad, the childhood romance
etc etc you get what I'm saying right.

The acting of this movie is good with special mention for Steve Martin
who is a regular comedy dad and even though brings nothing new to the
film at least insures you never get bored. Eugene Levy also does a good
job playing the eccentric dad of the rival family. Carmen Electra i
realised is actually a good actress and looks great in this movie.
However former preteen-queen Hilary duff looked way to thin and quite
ugly.

The jokes of the film mostly squeaky clean although there is some much
appreciated jokes for the adults that are so needed in this film.
Particularly funny is the scene where the dog spoils the elaborate
lunch, the take on another famous creature movie was hilarious. The
film is filled with funny moments that will make you smile maybe force
a half laugh but no scene is fall out your seat funny.

The film also serves the regular family fare with ease but almost every
scene looks run of the mill and there is nothing new to add to film in
the family-comedy-drama department. Being from India i found the father
following his child on a date quite funny and something which i can
actually picture someone who i know doing.

The movie is absolute run of the mill affair and loosed out on the
novelty value that the first one enjoyed. However it serves the regular
enjoyable family fare.

Watch it only if the company (family, going with friend and his girl
friend for the first movie hehe) requires that you watch such a film.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom and Kate (Steve Martin, Bonnie Hunt) decide to take the whole
family on a summer vacation to Lake Winnetka, but it soon turns into a
competition between their family and that of Tom's arch-rival Jimmy
Murtaugh (Eugene Levy).

Cheaper by the Dozen 2 is a harmless and bland sequel. It offers a few
laughs but not enough to sustain its running time. The original film
was an okay family film, nothing special. The sequel is more or less
the same and it also makes for a decent family film. I was expecting a
little more though. There are a few interesting subplots but the main
premise is very silly. I know it's a family movie and all but why did
the story have to be so generic? Since the script is weak there is a
lack of character development, the film is kind of boring. There are a
few funny gags and performances but they aren't good enough to save the
movie.

The acting is okay and only a couple people give good performances. The
best performance is given by Alyson Stoner. Her character goes through
the most development and she handles it pretty well. Liliana Mumy and
Morgan York also give good performances though they don't get a lot of
screen time. The strength of the comedy should have been the rivalry
between Steve Martin and Eugene Levy. Levy is only mildly funny while
Steve Martin is not funny at all. He just tries too hard and it comes
off as annoying. Bonnie Hunt gives a decent performance and she has a
few funny lines. Hilary Duff gives an annoying performance as Lorraine
and she's hardly in the film, which is a good thing. Carmen Electra
makes for good eye candy but she doesn't do anything special. Piper
Perabo and Jamie King both give decent performances. Tom Welling just
gives a bland performance while Jonathon Bennett only has a few lines
and his character is not developed at all.

Director Adam Shankman only does an okay job behind the camera. I like
the way he captures the Baker family and their love for one another.
There are some nice moments in the movie about family values and the
ending is pretty nice. Besides for that, he just keeps the film bland
and uninteresting while leaving out some of the Baker kids. On the one
hand, I wanted the film to be longer than 90 minutes so all the
characters could have been portrayed well. On the other hand, if they
had kept the same story and made the film longer then the movie would
have been unbearable. On a last note, compared to Yours, Mine and Ours,
Cheaper by the Dozen 2 looks like a masterpiece. In the end, the movie
is only average but it should make for a nice rental if you're looking
for a family film. Rating 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the first one better, but this movie was funny in its own
right.

I read someone's review before about how its nothing like the book. I
haven't read the book, but, I have to say this - In this day and age
did you really expect them to keep to the book? Look at all the other
movies based on books - Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter, for
examples - they are as true representations as you get. Everything else
- Ella Enchanted, for example - doesn't resemble the book in any way,
excluding the title and the names of the characters. I've learned not
to have high expectations of movies based on books, and until you do,
you're always going to be disappointed. You've got to look at the movie
for what it is, not for what the book was.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Trite, predictable family diversion. 

After having dismissing it as a simple-minded family picture for many
times, I gave CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN, a very loose adaptation of a novel
by Frank B. Gilbreth Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, a try and it
turned out to be a surprise delight. It wasn't perfect, maybe not even
formula, but I was delighted by it. It was a lot of fun and it never
seemed to run our of energy, especially for the always funny Steve
Martin. Martin is back in this sequel, and so is much of the same cast,
Bonnie Hunt in particular. Joining the original cast is a new set of
players including American PIE regular Eugene Levy, parody-movie
regular Carmen Electra and another batch of kids and teens. This is
CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN 2, and if I was wrong about the first film, I was
more wrong to think this one will be better.

In this sequel, the family that couldn't get along leaves all their
indifference behind a long time ago. Now their one big, happy family.
While going on a camping vacation (as usual, they have to live inside a
rotten, old cabin), they get into some competition with dad Tom Baker's
(Martin) old rival Jimmy Murtaugh (Levy) and his family, composed of
sexy wife Sarina (Electra) and eight children. See Murtaugh is athletic
and daring while Tom only wishes that his kids (jealous as always)
would have a better vacation. So on goes a series of challenges and
competitions they go through, fighting for who gets the better summer
this year.

Unfortunately, it might have not been the audience. Having missed it on
the big screen, I caught CHEAPER 2 on TV and, since I wasn't really
anticipating anything (a sequel to CHEAPER is nothing big to get
excited about). That probably helps to be able to enjoy a movie like
this. But while lowering your expectations might help at being kind to
your response to it, that doesn't necessarily mean liking it. Martin
and Levy (funny men, by the way) are at their best efforts, as Hunt
playing responsible mother Kate, but they can't shine in a script than
limits what they can do. Kids, as usual, will drag you to the video
store to rent or buy it, and maybe you should. But don't be surprised
if you won't like it. It really isn't made for you.

Rating: ** out of 5.
