
I was lucky enough to be in one of the first test audiences for this
film in Los Angeles. Knowing nothing about the film except that it's
being described as suspense/horror, and stars Patrick Wilson and a 14
year old girl, I went in expecting another bad to mediocre slash film.
I couldn't have been more wrong! 

Hard Candy is an intense psychological drama, with incredible
performances by both Ellen Page and Patrick Wilson. The two actors are
practically the only two people with lines in the film, aside from some
brief appearances by Sandra Oh and Jennifer Holmes. Thusfar I have only
seen Wilson in The Alamo and Phantom of the Opera, but I was blown away
with how he handled this performance. The slow, suspenseful film is set
mainly in the Los Angeles home of photographer Jeff, a 32 year old man
whom Hayley, a mature 14 year old girl who met him online, suspects to
be a pedophile. The pacing was steady, and phenomenal - after a brief
exposition we get into the real suspense about 20 minutes into the
film, and it doesn't let up from there. The cinematography and camera
work went excellently with the film. Rather than being extremely gory,
the adult themes of the film lead to a more psychological creepiness.
There are also questions that remain unanswered until the end of the
film, when everything is wrapped up nicely - leaving you puzzled to the
true identities and motives of the characters throughout most of the
duration.

Horror films are not my cup of tea, but psychological drama is. An
early fall release date has been rumored, and I can only hope this
movie doesn't get lost in the shuffle between summer blockbusters and
Oscar season. I also hope Lion's Gate markets this film for what it is,
and doesn't try to aim for fans of slash, or a teen crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film about a girl of 14 years old and a 32 years old guy. It
is a movie about Hayley (more than excellent Ellen Page) and Jeff,
about pedophilia and about how a pedophile must feel. Or maybe it is
only a history of vengeance. You won't know until the end of the film.
It sure is a difficult subject for a movie, but the script is
excellently profiled in the psychological horror and does not turn to
be obscene or anything than can visually or verbally hurt the
sensibility of anyone. It is more like disturbing to hear a teenage
girl speak how she does, and it is fascinating how your feelings will
go from one character to the other during the movie until you realize
that no matter what the end is, everyone is guilty of something and it
is not to us, humans, to decide what bad actions can be justified by
other bad actions.

Try on it, and be open-minded.

Sorry about any orthographic mistake, I'm not used to English writing.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at a late night screening at the Palm Springs International
Film Festival and of the 35 films I saw there I would rank this #4. for
about the first 10 minutes I didn't know if I was going to like it or
where it was going to go but man once this roller-coaster starts moving
it's a psychological thriller. Great stylized look to this film too.
The acting and story is intense and you can't avert your eyes from the
screen even though there are times where you think you might have to. I
like movies that have the feel of a stage play and the emotional
volleyball between the two principal actors is amazing. A little
far-fetched but so what. This is a good movie. I give it a 8.5 out of a
possible 10 and would recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
This tasteless and smug "psychological thriller" has been the subject
of many rave reviews by critics who have little knowledge of what film
actually is. Hard Candy thinks its daring and contemporary with its
slick MTV visuals, but it resembles an advert more than a film in its
self-conscious stylised mis en scene. But Hard Candy doesn't want to be
shallow. It wants to be intellectual. And what do you get? A "heroine"
who is as morally reprehensible as her victim. A heroine who spouts
references and smart talk beyond her years. This just doesn't wash.
Hayley, if we can call her that, is not really a character; she is a
just a mouthpiece for Brian Nelson's pretentious dialogue. Her
self-satisfied talk is annoying and unconvincing and is part of the
reason why Hard Candy is such an astonishing failure of a film  a fact
supported by its dismal Box Office performance. Hayley is simply not a
sympathetic character and neither is Jeff, and the film's penchant for
ambiguity further clouds any sense of background and motive that might
justify what is happening in this trashy, faux art-house film. The film
also has no sense of irony and subtlety: Nelson could have made points
about the hypocrisy of Hayley and the role-reversals she undertakes but
that would have disrupted the smug dialogue.

Hard Candy is also one of the most implausible films committed to
celluloid. I am not convinced why Hayley did what she did; how far she
planned everything to the last detail and what her motives were. The
film barely explains why she did what she did, save the stilted
dialogue at the end which further reinforces the film's desperation to
be ambiguous. Even the brief appearance by Sandra Oh as the inquisitive
neighbour is an embarrassment. Why didn't she ask about the blood on
Hayley's forehead? The script is to busy being smart to gloss over such
inconsistencies. The acting is also very annoying, especially Ellen
Page, who was a bit one-dimensional in her role. Avoid this nasty,
amoral little film.
<|_=00=_|>
Pardon me if that sounded emo, but this movie killed me a little bit on
the inside. I ached every time I thought about it over the next couple
of weeks. I was really excited to see Hard Candy at first. I thought it
looked neat. I liked the cover, and the synopsis on the back intrigued
me. So, like a fool, I rented it.

Oh my God. What happened to character development? They made the effort
with Jeff. They had him tell one story about his past. One. It wasn't
much, but it was enough that I grew to like him, just a little bit.
Unfortunately, it shouldn't have been Jeff that I was growing to like,
and, possibly, love. It should have been Hayley. Here's this little
psychotic girl who's running around drugging pedophiles so she can kill
them and saying, "I am every little girl you've ever touched!" over and
over again. She was a total pain in the ass. I wanted her to die. I
wanted Jeff to break free, kill her, and then go get some therapy to
help him quit having sex with children. That shouldn't have been the
case. I should have been on Hayley's side, which I would have been if
she'd actually had a past that allowed me to empathize with her
motives.

I sat through the whole movie because I truly believed that somewhere
in the film a real plot would emerge, or some characters would start to
develop, or someone would cut out Hayley's tongue so she would finally
shut up.

I loathed this movie. I have to leave for school now, but trust me, if
I had time, I could go into so much more detail. This movie sucked.
<|_=00=_|>
This was about the most uncomfortable, disturbing film I have seen in a
long time. It has just been released in France (September, 2006). The
acting was is places very good, even excellent, but making a
14-year-old into a brilliant revenge killer for a pedophile does not
send an acceptable message. In fact, any male who sits through the
castration scene could not possibly emerge with any empathy whatsoever
for the girl! There is extreme moral confusion here, and the pedophile
is actually a more sympathetic character than the girl. Even so, the
movie lets her "win", and one can easily imagine a series of sequels in
which she forces any number of evil men to do themselves in.
Apparently, as with many other films, the idea of personal, extra-legal
revenge still has appeal for some people, even though it represents
reversion to a method a addressing evil which has caused untold
suffering throughout human history. I maintain that the film is immoral
as well as revolting. I advise my friends not even to think of seeing
it. I don't think I have ever felt so strongly against a film in my
life (I'm 64 years old).
<|_=00=_|>
Read any of the myriad of one star reviews on this film to see how I
feel about it.

What's puzzling to me is how many people can honestly like something
that is so bad? And its not the whole sex abuser versus torture thing.
I don't care about the debate of whether she was right or wrong--that
only justifies the filmmakers attempt to make it "controversial." Its
the fact that the dialog is awful, and clichéd. That pretty quickly a
14-year old girl disappears and instead becomes the screenwriter's
narration, which is didactic and preachy, and a tad bit condescending.

A 14-year old girl could never haul around the dead weight of an adult
male, or female for that matter. The kick in the head he gives her
would have left her dazed for much longer than what happens. When he
rammed his chair against her pinning her against the wall, repeatedly,
it would have incapacitated her pretty severely. Of course, the
consequence of that would have been her passing out while he dies from
saran wrap asphyxiation.

And all her rope tying and again, moving what has to be at least a
175lbs all over the place like its nothing is something most adult men
couldn't do, much less a 14-year old girl.

It goes on and on. She talks him into committing suicide? What? And he
buys into it? This movie is awful for many reasons, but the main one is
that is simply stupid. And worse, its predictable. We know in advance
that every escape attempt he makes will be thwarted. Why? Well, because
its too early in the film for him to escape. So why even draft that,
Mr. Screenwriter of Crap? We know when he picks up the gun that he
won't kill her. Because your pretension is unfortunately not only
sloppy in its failure to cover galaxy sized holes, its also
predictable. And predictable is boring. 

And to the IMDb reviewers, can you please quit writing that the acting
is good even if you hate the plot. The acting is not good. At all. This
thing stinks to high heaven. The color scheme came from one of those
home design television shows you see on the tube. 

Oh, and another little annoyance--anyone notice how the bar he picks
her up in has the exact same walls as his home? I checked in the
trivia, and it is because apparently it was filmed in the same place.
Wow, nice job of hiding that. "not." Anyone who recommends this movie
is not your friend and should not be trusted for any opinions on movies
as they are morons. Which unfortunately appears to be a really big
chunk of the IMDb reviewers.
<|_=00=_|>
Hard Candy is a film about whether you can torture someone into
admitting crimes they didn't commit. Unfortunately, in this film, the
torturer turns out to be the hero... A hero I was never behind for a
minute. Over the top acting on a predictable script, so many
impossibilities and plot holes that it is hard to suspend disbelief for
very long, and a leading lady that looks like a boy all add up to a
miss. The only surprise in the film for me was that she didn't reveal
herself to be a boy after all this. 

The lighting was not bad at all, though. That's the one point that I
gave this horrible piece of work. Never have the words "an hour and a
half of my life that I'll never get back" been more deserved.

However, if you are a teenage girl with notions of vigilante vengeance,
this movie might give you some confidence, since she superhumanly pulls
it off with barely a scratch. You wonder why this child genius is not
working for the police already, since she is able to solve a crime
weeks before the homicide unit can.

Since the girl is 14, there is no nudity, no sex, relatively little
violence, not even much swearing. I don't know why this thing is rated
R, except to fool people into thinking it might be some kind of
suspense thriller. It is clearly a PG13, and is safe for teens to
watch...

If Haley really wanted to torture Jeff, she should have just shown him
this film. He would have admitted anything at that point.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hard Candy" is about a teenage girl named Hayley (Ellen Page) who
likes to surf the web and explore internet dating like most normal
teenagers. The film opens up with an instant message chat between
Hayley and a much older guy named Jeff (Patrick Wilson). Jeff and
Hayley plan to meet up later that day, where their meeting turns into
an unexpected series of events. A very intense psychological drama
ensues 

I just got back from an advanced screening of "Hard Candy" at the
Philadelphia Film Festival. And let me be the first to say, this movie
was remarkable. The idea behind this film is so powerful and disturbing
at the same time. This movie focuses on two people, Hayley who is a 14
year old girl and a 30 something pedophile named Jeff. A movie's
subject matter is something that is a serious issue in the world and I
think this movie takes the idea of it to a new and unique level.

During this film, I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. You watch
with amazement as this little teenage girl who seems so innocent really
controls the entire situation. She is smart and has planned everything
and anything and the film flows together so nicely. Even though Hayley
isn't an overly likable character, I was cheering her on throughout the
whole film. She was such an intelligent and wicked character who seemed
to be just sickened by pedophiles.

Another thing which was very interesting about this film was that it
actually relied more on the facial expressions and dialog then on
actual images. There is one part in the film which is extremely
disturbing and is something I never seen in a film before. The scene
involves Hayley doing an operation to say it in an inexplicit way.
During that scene, we never see what's happening but it was spine
tingling just seeing the emotions and listening to the dialog of the
characters. A powerful scene which was so intense and disturbing I may
never forget it.

Lastly, I liked how even though the film was a very powerful drama, the
script had some light humor in it as well. The line about Roman
Polanski was a classic as well as the whole "I'm an honor roll student"
line. The film is so serious at times, it was nice to get a chuckle
here and there to allow audiences to take a breather from being pinned
to their seats with suspense.

Like I previously stated there are only two real characters in this
movie those being Hayley and Jeff. Ellen Page does an incredible job
and delivers a mind-blowing performance. Her character is both demented
and likable. Patrick Wilson was great as well. He gave a very
interesting and powerful performance as a pedophile who didn't want to
admit he had a problem. His emotions during this film were incredible
and extremely realistic.

"Hard Candy" was directed by first time filmmaker David Slade. I feel
this is a breathtaking and powerful first film about an uneasy subject
matter that so few talk about. His unique craft of capturing not only
the characters emotions and anger but also the unique camera angles is
remarkable. Also the unique scenes of darkness and colors were
brilliant. I like the fact that the director didn't make the characters
out to be fictional characters but someone who we can meet on a daily
basis.

The screenplay was written by Brian Nelson who is also a first time
screenwriter for a feature film. I normally don't review how I feel
about the screenplay but this one was so unique and daring that I feel
I have to. The way the script develops the characters is amazing and
how the film actually has a real ending instead of one of those cop-out
choose your own ending films that so many people are using nowadays.
What the film does is leaves everything at the end open to discussion.
Why did Hayley do what she did? Who is Hayley really and so forth. It's
an incredible screenplay that Mr. Nelson should be extremely proud of.

Bottom Line: "Hard Candy" was such an amazing film with powerful,
intense scenes and great acting. The script is extremely fresh and
takes the idea of a pedophile film to a new level. This film allows its
audience to think and also be shocked by what's going on during the
film. It's not a movie for those who like light-hearted films or films
that are completely resolved in the end. Hard Candy is really one of
those mind f*ck films that when you leave the theater you just want to
talk about what just happened. It's a remarkable film that will stay
with me for many weeks to come.

MovieManMenzel's final rating for "Hard Candy" is a 9/10. A powerful
yet disturbing film that touches on a subject matter that is constantly
being ignored in our world but be warned this film is definitely not
for the weak hearted crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Hard Candy at the Angelika, in Tribeca New York and never have I
been so shocked, surprised and utterly impressed with an acting
performance. The storyline, though somewhat confusing was overpowered
by the Oscar-winning performance given by Ellen Page, 14-year old
Hayley. Though it could have wrapped up a little sooner (it was a bit
longer than expected) I would highly recommend this to anyone who has
buddies they talk to online, or anyone that generally enjoys
suspenseful films. Not to be outdone by the young star, Patrick Wilson
gave an excellent performance. The whole movie was a twisted roller
coaster of not knowing who to believe. Whether young Hayley was telling
the truth, or was she in fact just completely insane, you won't find
out until the end, but either way, it was a knockout performance by
both stars and a highly recommended film!
