
2012 the economy has hit bottom, broke through and has kept on
descending. Along the way prisons have been handed over to the private
sector that have chosen to make a profit by broadcasting gladiatorial
style death matches starring the inmates, with the reward to the
inmates after 5 victories  FREEDOM Enter Jensen Ames (Jason Stratham)
a recently unemployed steel worker and former race car driver who lost
his license but no matter how bad things are, he's a happy man as long
as he has his family.

That is, until he's set up for the murder of his wife, imprisoned, and
forced to compete in Death Race if he ever hopes to see his daughter
again.

But enough of the plot! A paragraph blurb at the start and 8 minutes of
character development is pushing the limits of this flick and that's
not why a person would see a W.S. Anderson/Jason Stratham action flick
and besides, a plot would allow "plot holes" and who needs to deal with
that headache? The rest of the movie takes place in the 3 days of Death
Race. The first 2 days are competition/elimination rounds reminiscent
of Mario Kart as if it was designed by some rogue member of GTA on a
disgruntled day but who loved the hidden short cuts and power-ups.

Amongst all the adrenaline filled action, Anderson makes sure to toss
in the occasional character development or when he's feeling really
daring he'll toss in some pseudo-dramatic realization our hero comes
across which helps remind the movie-goer that the movie has a plot
rather than just a string of explosive action sequence. All of this is
done with the utmost use of cliché and designed to inspire the
excitable little 12 year old boy in many of us to stay riveted in our
seats as we wait for Jensen to strike with angry revenge for all he's
been through.

The movie is everything a modern day movie aficionado should not like.
It's brainless, sexist, ridiculously violent, and lacks any redeemable
qualities. These are also all the reasons why I had so much fun with
the movie. I went seeing what I expected and that's exactly what I
wanted to see!
<|_=00=_|>
I always hate it when all those high class critics from the newspapers
and journals bash a film for not being what THEY want it to be and not
looking at it for what its SUPPOSED to be.

The title is "Death Race" after all. No-one ever expected it to win any
golden trophies in the first place. So what if the acting was a bit
bland and the plot was a little weak. That's not was the movie is
supposed th be about.

It's not a Martin Scorsese film where you sit back and think "Oh, that
is very thought-provoking and I feel that I've truly learned something
inspirational today." No. This is a film where you sit back, look at
it, and think "Holy ****!! Did you see that ********** explosion?!"

This is a film where you have fun in. Don't worry if you walk away with
nothing meaningful to talk about at the end. Go ahead and laugh at its
stupidity. I guarantee you you'll still have a much better time that
watching something like Capote
<|_=00=_|>
I shouldn't write reviews for movies like this because it feels like
I'm lining up to kick a puppy. A movie like 'Death Race' can only be
judged fairly through a set of lowered genre expectations. I'll try but
I'm not making any promises. It is fun, very loud and unabashedly dumb.
It was never envisioned to be anything other than an attempt at 'cool.'
The average viewer will - without fail - be able to pick out every
moment where Paul W.S. Anderson had an idea during the script writing
and thought to himself "That'd be awesome!" before looking around the
room for someone to high five. I shouldn't pick on him because I
actually do enjoy his movies. He isn't trying to make 'Casablanca';
'Robocop' is more his style. Just without the boring stuff like
characterization and development. And as little subtlety, satire or
nuance as needed. Unless unintentional or totally by mistake and ironic
-- That'd be alright.

This movie's lone strength is the special effects and it lives and dies
by the car chase, the machine gun firing and the gory death(s). Michael
Bay, eat you heart out. Anderson knows the art of kaboom and action
junkees should be satisfied with his efforts here -- especially during
the second race when the 'Dreadnought' enters the race. As long as you
numb your brain into not asking serious questions about things like
physics. Or how massive amounts of armour on a car wouldn't make flesh
and soft tissue any safer in horrifying car crashes. Or how the
American economy of the Dystopian future has crumbled, but 70 million
can still afford the pay-per-view price to watch. Maybe some of the
viewers are from Canada.

If you were to put any consideration into serious film criticism where
'Death Race' is concerned, then you'd be the first one. The movie is so
predictable, lazy and unambitious that it asks you to hand it the
popcorn. In fact, have you seen the trailer? You've seen the film.
Tyrese's character is homosexual, which I thought was stunningly
inventive given the scriptwriter. Sliding back into predictability, it
is used solely to make a few tasteless jokes before being forgotten
about. Pretty standard fare for Anderson. If you've watched his other
films, you know exactly what to expect. Except less. Brain still hurts
too much to think about it. I think the annoying thing is that Anderson
has potential. I wouldn't keep going to his movies if I didn't enjoy
them. It annoys me when the problems at script level are so apparent.
He has a tendency to go to predictable places: Requisite gay jokes for
the prison? Check. Incredibly hot women on screen? Cue horny Rap music
since I need a musical cue to point out the obvious. I'm annoyed when
one character asks another if they think that they're really the best
choice of parent for their offspring and the second character says
later "Someone once asked me if ..." like they and the audience have
forgotten the specifics of the first conversation. The audience doesn't
need to be spoon-fed the obvious. It's a weakness that I hope Anderson
can shed. He clearly loves making movies. Trusting the audience a
little more and giving us some credit might let him make better ones.

The crazy thing is that despite it all, I enjoyed 'Death Race.' It is
flawed from top to bottom but wears the flaws so honestly and
endearingly that you really shouldn't hold it against the movie. Need
to go see a mindless distraction for an hour and a half? 'Death Race'
isn't a bad choice. With 'Death Race' you get exactly what you expect
and exactly what you deserve.
<|_=00=_|>
Now here's an exploitation film that knows what a solid B-movie is
supposed to be: an action-dense, amped-up, gore-soaked killfest. It's
the cinematic equivalent of eating that entire box of Red Vines you
bought at the snack bar, using them as candy straws to suck down your
extra-large Coke.

As a fan of the original "Death Race 2000," I was pleased to see just
enough of a shadow of the original movie inhabiting the skin of the new
one. Roger Corman's name on the producing credits gave me hope at the
start, and his seal of approval seemed to mean something, perhaps as
counterweight to Paul W. S. Anderson's track record of shooting
mediocre video game adaptations. Surprisingly, Anderson rises to the
occasion, effortlessly elevating a cliché-rich but fast-moving script
to the level of a satisfyingly adrenalin-fueled confection aimed like a
bullet at the A.D.D.-addled brains of the short-attention-span
generation.

Set in an "Escape From New York"-style dystopic prison-culture (that
sounds suspiciously like current American society), slaughter happens,
stuff blows up, and the weak are culled like bunnies caught in the
headlights of gas-sucking American muscle cars. Fans of the "Twisted
Metal" video game will love the newest wrinkle in the race, the
addition of weaponry  a needed bloody bump for version 2.0. And what a
bump it is, with each car's chugging machine guns indiscriminately
spewing hot rounds at every foe, shredding Detroit steel like it was
used Kleenex. It's unabashed gun fetishism at its gleeful best, and it
makes you want to strap an M60 to the hood of your Prius in order to
cut your commute in half.

Jason Statham does his standard tough-guy job as the scowling
Frankenstein, Joan Allen plays a ball-busting warden (perhaps a bit in
the mold of Louise Fletcher's Nurse Ratched), and Ian McShane of
"Deadwood" has a solid cameo as the prison-wise mechanic, Coach. Even
Machine Gun Joe gets a new incarnation in the form of Tyrese Gibson,
who thankfully is nothing like Stallone's blustering Italian meatball.

I loved it, and can't wait to see it again in a theater with enough
bass to pump up those impact crunches to the bone-jarring level they
deserve.

Yeah!
<|_=00=_|>
Definitely better than the ridiculous "Righteous Kill", that we had the
doubtful honor to view today also, at the same press screening, here in
Bucharest, Romania.

"Death Race" is a honest to God action movie, without any
bigger-than-life pretensions. The script follows correctly an old
tested and tried recipe, everything is at its place, and although you
can easily plot out the whole course since the beginning, somewhat even
this sounds good - you simply have the guilty pleasure of savoring
again a story that you know from dozens of other movies.

The influences from the racing video games are explicit, and well
mastered - me, I fully felt as while playing "Death Rally". Even
certain aerial shots are obvious quotes from the computer game imagery.
The narrative is nervous and thrilling, the effects professional, the
violence degree precisely balanced. Maybe the main virtue of the movie
is the cinematography, with admirable chromatic and plastic values. All
in all, what it promises, it delivers: a cheap show, well done.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't looking for anything deep, I wasn't looking for anything
serious, no Oscar winning actors, no award winning script, I just
wanted an action movie, this summer we got Death Race, a movie where
the script and characters are just never explored, but the action is
non stop and so exciting. I don't know why, but we just need action
movies like that and one of the things that I did enjoy about this was
that it reminded me of those old grind house films that have quick
editing and fast paced stories that are just awesome stories to watch
because of the stunts. This is a different form of The Fast and The
Furious, only just not with all the fancy gadgets which I like. Also,
Jason Statham, this guy is just awesome in action movies, he makes such
a great lead in any action role and is such an awesome tough guy that
you don't want to mess with.

Based off the 70's film "Death Race 2000", it's 2012, the economy is in
bad shape, employment is down, but entertainment is up, especially in
prison where racing has become the new gladiator fights. Jenson's wife
is murdered and he is framed for it, landing him him in prison, where
he is approached by the leader of the Death Race program, Hennessey,
and she offers him to race for his freedom if he can make it out alive.
But there's something a little deeper when it seems like he was put in
prison on purpose so he could race.

Death Race is just pure entertainment, it's nothing original, we don't
really know the characters that well or what their motives are, but the
reason why this movie is enjoyable is just the awesome action that is
endless. I loved the editing, it made the race scenes that much more
exciting. I would recommend this movie if you are looking for fun, like
I said before we just need a pure action movie sometimes and Death Race
is a perfect film on that level. I had a great time watching this movie
and am looking forward to seeing it again for a good time.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to attend the advanced screening here in Dallas and must say
I enjoyed myself immensely. While anyone going into this film expecting
anything more then a thin veil of a plot will be sorely disappointed,
it will definitely entertain those who have the right expectations.
That said, this is a no holds barred, testosterone fueled thrill ride.
Think of the game Twisted Metal, then throw in convicts, a greedy
warden looking only at the profit and you have Death Race. While the
movie has plenty of explosions, machine guns, armored cars, gore and
beautiful females, there was enough humor and sentiment thrown in to
make it all seem worthwhile. Definitely an entertaining film, and one
that any over-the-top action movie junkie will surely add to their
collection.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this film last night at a premier in Portland Oregon.Im not
gonna give away any of the story because there isn't much of one which
is fine in this case. Explolsions and murder and hot women plus Jason
statham equals good movie. I went into this film expecting it to be
disaster,and i say this only because I'm anonymous... it was good.
Plenty of wow moments to cringe at and not just me but the whole
audience. The driving does get a little repetitive but kudos to the
director Paul w.s. Anderson for mixing it up. Plus it is a revenge
story which everyone loves. BOTTOM LINE if you want to be entertained
and don't mind a some violence see it it is worth the price of
admission.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into Death Race with really no idea what to expect from it. I am
a big fan of Jason Statham movies but the concept of this movie hadn't
really made me too excited to see it. Nevertheless this is a great
movie, the humor is spot on throughout the movie, though this is
definitely no comedy. The action is fast paced throughout and they come
up with some pretty creative ways for characters to get killed. I found
the story to obviously be a bit far fetched with it being people racing
in a prison and all but never that didn't ruin the movie at all and I
ended up loving the storyline. Overall, the acting was great, and it
had great effects and a good storyline. I consider this a must watch
for those who love action movies. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
As many comic books, games and original movies are being remade,
director Paul W.S. Anderson is not new to those remakes. He adapted
Resident Evil, Mortal Kombat and AVP. Now he remakes the original movie
Death race 2000. Not surprising. While watching this movie, I realised
that he still has his habit of making games plots. Death race plot is
quite similar to those racing or survival games plot. It reminds me of
DOA (Dead Or Alive) which Paul produce. 

The story: Jensen Ames (Jason Statham) is framed for murdering his
wife. He is then sent to jail. Hennessey (Joan Allen) picks him to join
the brutal surviving game. He has to kill the other inmates who join
the game. The prize is to get his freedom. Every inmate will get his
own partner. The partners are mostly some hot chicks. From there,
exciting vehicles chases scenes and blood ooze out. There isn't much
gore but there are blood and language. The plot is so simple but the
idea and the chase scenes make my heart pound. It is like watching a
survival game unfolding by itself.It just explode the screen and your
time and nothing else. And you won't care about the plot, you will just
care about the thrilling game. 

Overall: Those expecting a move to kill time, this is one. Those who
want to watch another "The Dark Knight" movie, this is not the movie.
It is not bad for mindless action flick.
