
Ocean Thirteen's slick credit sequence, highlighting Brad Pitt in all
his movie star glory and letting us all know that Soderbergh and his
camera are up for some glossy fun, gets the heart racing in
anticipation of a slick, sly heist caper on par with #1 and superior to
#2.

But then, as detail upon detail is heaped upon the audience and
increasingly silly machinations are put in place to ensure the
casino-robbery plan works, it all starts to unravel until, burdened by
its own only-in-the-movies logic, the film grinds to a halt just when
it should be at its most exciting.

At the 80 minute mark, the film, in desperate need of a compelling
story to kick-in, is still setting up the details of the heist. No
tension has been created, no forward momentum is in place, no
characters are established sufficiently to root for. Soderbergh is no
doubt hoping the good will audiences have for his characters from the
first film is still in place here (sorely tested in Oceans Twelve). And
despite taking all this time to create a detailed if rather ludicrous
heist plan, it then boils down to relying on coincidence rather than
cunning for it all to work.

Clooney and Pitt still have the charisma and chemistry to make some
moments enjoyable, but there isn't the zing in their banter that was a
highlight of the first film. Other returning cast members - Matt Damon,
Bernie Mac, Elliott Gould, Andy Garcia - are all reduced to plot
devices rather than given any substance (I know this isn't meant to be
a in-depth character piece, but gimme somebody to care about and not
just ogle!). Best moments come from Scott Cann and Casey Affleck; most
embarrassing from Don Cheadle. And though Al Pacino is suitably
villainous as the bad guy, he's also the most interesting and
compelling character in the film, making his ultimate downfall (which,
lets face it, is no spoiler) a little bittersweet (I would've liked to
have seen him slap Danny Ocean up the side of the head, if only to
create a little spark in the film).

What is sorely missing is a strong female character. Julia Roberts
provided it in #1; Julia and Catherine Zeta-Jones were the best things
about #2. In O13, Ellen Barkin is reduced to playing Pacino's 2IC as a
blindly-ambitious slut, and its awful. Other female characters are
either casino-pit screechers or hookers, underlying the boys-own
macho-ness of these films.

It does look great in parts - the set design and CGI work is impeccable
- and Soderbergh, holding his own camera under the name 'Peter
Andrews', shoots his cast and the locales sumptuously in deep, rich
reds and golden tones. But at 122 minutes its a long slog.

With a triumvirate of blah threequels this American summer already
clogging multiplexes, Ocean Thirteens only adds weight to the argument
that if anything interesting or inspired is going to be done with the
characters or plot in a franchise film, its already been done by the
time a #3 is churned out.
<|_=00=_|>
So they're back, for a third time, after Ocean's Eleven in 2001 and
Ocean's Twelve in 2004. First they took out three of Terry Benedict's
(Andy Garcia) Las Vegas casinos at one go with a smart and clever plan
in Eleven, then they had to pay it all back with interest to Benedict
in Twelve by staging a different theft, now in Thirteen the team of
eleven are back to casino stealing with a little help from again,
Benedict.

The unlucky guy is Willy Banks (Al Pacino) who owns a series of highly
rated "5 Diamonds" hotels. The team is not in for the money this round
but for revenge because Banks had done the disfavour of first knocking
Reuben Tishkoff (Elliott Gould), one of the Eleven, from a hotel deal
causing the man a heart-attack and a sudden lost in zest for life. You
could say old Willy Banks had it coming for him because his ego was too
big for himself. He had without any regards dismissed the Eleven's
attempt for him to reinstate Reuben's share of the hotel.

As it reads, "What are the odds of getting even? 13 to 1." It's time to
place your bet.

Good guys versus bad guys. I cannot really call thieves good guys can
I? How about nice guys then? These guys are nice. They have a
sentimental heart. They watch Oprah. These guys are nice. They have a
heart of gold. They will do anything for a friend. And these guys are
cool, handsome and funny too.

Danny Ocean (George Clooney), Rusty Ryan (Brad Pitt), Linus Caldwell
(Matt Damon), Frank Catton (Bernie Mac), Virgil Malloy (Casey Affleck),
Turk Malloy (Scott Caan), Saul Bloom (Carl Reiner), Basher Tarr (Don
Cheadle), "The Amazing" Yen (Shaobo Qin), Livingston Dell (Eddie
Jemison) and Reuben Tishkoff (Elliott Gould) make up the Eleven. Strong
cast and strong performance is to describe the ensemble.

Let me re-familiarize you to the team. Danny and Rusty are the
mastermind and deputy. Linus is the rookie turned master thief. Frank
is the professional dealer. Virgil and Turk are brothers who are
experts in everything (they kind of do everything and run everywhere).
Saul is the old and characteristic actor con-artiste. Basher is the
demolition and machinery expert. "The Amazing" Yen is the wellÂ… the
amazing Yen who is skilled in acrobatic. Livingston is the guru in
surveillance and an electronic geek. And of course lastly we have
Reuben who is the old man with the money and Danny's mentor.

No worries if you can't remember their roles. You can't be blamed for
that. There are after all eleven of them. Just remember them as master
of disguises. Lots of that will appear in the film.

What make a film like Ocean's Thirteen worth watching is watching all
the characters. It is fun to see all of them coming together in their
own way to give the story its life. The acting is in one word, superb.
And the actor who plays the bad guy, Willy Banks, Al Pacino is great.
The facial expression whenever the veteran actor appears on screen is
beyond words. Those eyes and that look, brilliant. Banks right hand
man, or woman, and the only mentionable actress in Ocean's Thirteen is
Abigail Sponder (Ellen Barkin), and she's foxy.

The story is not that complicated and I can't spoil it by telling. It
is basically the eleven taking revenge on Banks with a little help from
Benedict. There'll be the usual witty dialogues, the underlying funny
relationship among the team members and of course the all-important
ploy of how to breach into ego Willy's hotel casino on its opening
night. For a film of such fashion, the most interesting part will
always be how smart the plan to steal is being done. In Ocean's
Thirteen it is not bad and quite exaggerated. For the audience I advise
taking the consideration of logic out of the equation and just enjoy
all the action on screen as they are. There is no need to be too hard
or too smart about it. The main point to this film is to enjoy the
humour.

The chill-out, atmospheric and ambient music by composer David Holmes
is one of the factors that give this movie series its slick aesthetics.
Ocean's Thirteen bettered its last effort of Twelve though not quite as
clever, smart and interesting as Eleven. A first tough act was always
hard to follow but director Steven Soderbergh gave this one a decent
account.

It is easier to enjoy the movie than to dislike it. I like the small
part about the hotel reviewer and the jackpot and felt it was a nice
touch. If I were to put the film more critically though, I would say
that it is not as smooth and the flavour not as strong. Sounds like I'm
describing an ice-cream? It is like ice-cream with all the actors and
actress in this one. Now who doesn't like ice-cream right?

Any flavour will do as long as it's sweet, cool and topped with some
crunch.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie with only one expectation, surely it cant be
as bad as the second film. On this front i was greatly pleased as the
sense of smugness surrounding twelve has been completely lost. The only
real problem i had was that after the film finished i really struggled
to remember anything particularly about it.

The performances were all OK but no one really stood out, whereas Matt
Damon was the only person i didn't want to slap in twelve, he never
gets the chance to shine. Al Pacino has no chance to make a memorable
villain out of the limited screen time leaving you not really caring if
they can pull off the job or not. Clooney and Pitt also do an OK job of
an average script, but it never rises above OK.

The area i think this film falls down is with a cast that is too big,
while inventive and different in the first film, just hinders this one.
There are too many people trying to get their five minutes on screen to
really give a damn. Maybe this is the directors feels we already care
about them as we know the characters, when in reality the damage caused
by twelve was enough to need character building again. Arguably a plot
on a smaller scale would have been better with a sharp focus on one or
two characters as in the first film.

While flashy this film is all about style over substance and if you are
looking for a shallow but entertaining summer movie this may just be
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a huge fan of Ocean's Eleven, it was smart, witty, funny and in
my opinion the best remake I have ever seen. The great cast and the
smart dialogue just made it a pleasure to watch, leading my
expectations to reach phenomenal levels before seeing its follow up,
Ocean's Twelve. So perhaps that is why Ocean's Twelve seemed such a let
down, my expectations were to high. As a result of this originally my
expectations for Ocean's Thirteen were horribly low, I contemplated not
even seeing it at one point. However after re watching Ocean's Eleven,
I decided to give it a chance, perhaps Soderbergh at made an effort
this time, perhaps it would reclaim the glory of the original movie.
Thankfully it has not only reclaimed my respect for the series, but
also produced, in my eyes, the best entry so far. The return to Las
Vegas has also seen a return of a great script, a plot that is
followable, decent jokes and also just a sense of fun that Ocean's
Twelve was sorely lacking. In many ways this makes up for the mistake
that was the past movie, this is the sequel we should have had. In
actual fact, apart from maybe a couple of details, this movie has next
to nothing following on from the second movie. This is a good thing as
it allows more people to see the quality first movie and then not have
to worry about seeing the horrific second one before seeing the best of
the series.

Ocean's Eleven worked particularly well because of its starry cast, and
the fact the cast were clearly having an absolute ball making the
movie. We had George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Andy Garcia, Julia
Roberts and loads more. Ocean's Twelve saw the inclusion of more stars,
including Catherine Zeta-Jones and Vincent Cassel. In Ocean's Thirteen
two of the cast members have gone, thankfully the lack of Julia Roberts
and Zeta-Jones doesn't leave a mark at all. In fact it seems a bit of a
breath of fresh air, and even fresher when the reasoning for them not
being in the movie is explained with one line of dialogue. But to make
up for their disappearance we get Al Pacino in their stead, and trust
me he more than makes up for it. Andy Garcia was a great villain in the
original, but he lack the menace that Al Pacino has. He easily steals
the beginning of the movie, and he threatens to steal it for the whole
movie as well. He isn't overused, and he's certainly never underused.
He's the best villain this series has had and it makes the quality of
the movie increase. But of course this is still the original elevens'
movie, and all of them get their moments to shine. George Clooney is
still the best, he's such a great actor to watch as he just oozes star
quality. He's the kind of person you wouldn't mind meeting in real life
because he seems a genuinely nice guy. He's also used more in this
movie, unlike in Twelve where he seemed to co-star in a movie with his
name in the title. Brad Pitt is used less than Twelve here, and
thankfully that works as well. My biggest problem with Twelve was the
fact Rusty took centre stage, and in my opinion Rusty isn't an
interesting character. In small doses he's brilliant, but in large
doses his character just isn't good enough. Matt Damon has some great
comedic moments here and there, Andy Garcia continues his role with
style, Eddie Izzard's character actually seems to have a point here,
and all the rest of the cast just carries on perfectly. They're all
having a blast and they put their all into this movie.

So what of the actual storyline then? Well the actual motives for this
movie seems to have improved a lot. Ocean's Twelve's storyline just
didn't work for me, I liked the fact that they had to re-pay their
money to Bennedict, but I didn't like the fact it got all involved with
Vincent Cassel's jewel thief. Here though its all about revenge, and it
works better here. It also helps that Al Pacino's Willy Bank is such a
jerk that you can't wait to see the gang exact their revenge on him.
How they do it, and if they do it I will leave as a surprise, and trust
me there are a few little surprises install along the way. Some
characters show up that you don't expect to show up, and also the
movies pacing is tremendous. It throws you in at the deep end, the
planning stage isn't very long, its all about the actual heist pretty
much. The opening and the first half is generally talking, which some
people might dislike. I personally loved it as the conversations were
brilliant, and the quick fire dialogue a welcome relief from the clunky
blockbuster stuff I'm used to at the moment. 

Overall Ocean's Thirteen is a masterclass in smart, silly blockbusters.
Its storyline is preposterous, and how the heist goes is a bit silly,
but that's part of the fun, that's what makes the Ocean's series in
general such a blast. The movies ooze style (yes even Twelve to some
extent). If this is the final movie of the Ocean's series, and I
personally believe it is, then they have the left the series on a very
high. This has the potential to end up being the best Blockbuster of
the summer, a surprise as I really didn't expect much from this. I
highly recommend it, its cool, funny slick and most importantly of all,
very cool.
<|_=00=_|>
They are back and now there are 13...

The movie is any day better than ocean's twelve (which i think was
really bad) but still not as good as the original! All of them are back
and why not with such an amazing director and support group who
wouldn't come back. Al Pacino is fantastic as always and adds that
extra bit to the movie.

Story is actually at par with the first one and 20 times better than
the second movie! Got to see an early screening and loved it. I don't
want to spoil the movie. But one thing is true that the story is again
complicated and its for the better only as the more complicated the
better. Acting as always amazing.

After disappointments of spider-man 3, shrek 3 and to some extent POC
3, this one s easily better than the above three and thus this is a
must watch 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Danny Ocean and his Eleven are back in Las Vegas. This time, Danny
tries to talk sense into Willie Bank, the owner of a series of highly
rated "5 Diamonds" hotels who double-crossed one of Eleven, Reuben
Tishkoff (Elliott Gould), on a hotel deal causing the man a
heart-attack and coma-like state. After the ruthless and arrogant Bank
suggests that Reuben "rolls over and dies", Danny and his team decide
to take the Bank's stunning new casino out of business on the big
opening night. 

The third Ocean's movie is great fun and a wonderful mixture of genres
that works as comedy/crime/thriller/revenge. Vegas is spectacular. The
jokes are funny, the dialogs are witty, the directing is first class
with the split screens, unusual angles, and the camera that always
moves fast but does not rush. The acting is terrific. The absence of
Julia Roberts and Katherine Zeta Jones is more than compensated by the
presence of great Ellen Barkin who is a better actress than two and a
hot beautiful woman, the real "cougar". Besides Ocean and his Eleven
(who all have fun with their parts but this time Carl Reiner was simply
outstanding), it was good to see David Paymer as an unlucky (or was
he?) hotel reviewer and Eddie Izzard as a famous computer hacker. Did I
mention that Al Pacino took the role of Willie Bank and he was
excellent playing in his quiet mode without screaming which I like a
lot? There are certainly the holes in the story and the absence of
logic but I did not care a bit. "Ocean's Thirteen" is not about logic
or plausibility or realism, it is all about fun and entertaining and it
entertains admirably. It is a very successful and enjoyable sequel in
the series of Ocean's movies and we all know that good sequels don't
happen too often.
<|_=00=_|>
Have you ever watched a film while multi-tasking? Well if you have, you
should do it again but this time put on Ocean's Thirteen. I would not
describe myself as a fan of the Oceans' movies but I have pretty much
enjoyed all of them. In light of that though this is the worst one of
the series.

The movie is very well acted in that it appears the whole cast has fun
with the material from top to bottom. That does not make it a good film
though it just makes it a nice to get together. One thing I could say
though was this time around I actually noticed Casey Affleck because of
his recent breakout performances in other films. So with that, he and
Al Pacino just adds to the fun of watching all the great actors and
stars in the film. The script is very witty at times and did have me
chuckle more often then not. What was missing though were the star
actresses. Tangle in all the fun of a crazy scheme to rob a casino,
gambling and just Las Vegas is the women. It would have been great to
see Julia Roberts or Catherina Zeta Jones or even both back for the
film. Instead we had to settle with Ellen Barkin who has not nearly as
an impressive career or persona as her counterparts.

As the rest of the series this film really is not too thought provoking
or deep. It won't inspire you to do something so honestly it won't be
too necessary to focus all your thoughts on this film. This is an
entertaining film considering George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Al
Pacino, Don Cheadle, Bernie Mac and Casey Affleck are in it but yet it
isn't as well made or enjoyable as its predecessors.
<|_=00=_|>
Since I am a fan of the first two movies I expected a funny and
thrilling film. What carried the viewer through its predecessors (great
retro design, music etc.) now isn't enough for a really good movie. The
story itself could be summed up too quickly. The preparation for the
big thievery starts almost from the beginning of the film and it's
justification is really poor. What can be really enjoyed are the
colorful visuals and a bunch of stars that seem to enjoy themselves.
All this prevents a worse vote. To me it seems that Hollywood is
running out on ideas at the moment. Sequels are obviously attractive
from a financial point of view but bear the risk that they are produced
and conceived not careful enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally the sequel to a movie is a let down. Especially if the first
part was really good. I think that's what's happened with Ocean's 12
for many but l hope this doesn't mean that they won't be watching '13'.

I was happy to see all of the same characters and actors together again
because that is one big cool cast. Not to mention Al Pacino...icing on
the cake.Who could resist?

For those who are in doubt about Ocean's 13, i hope you're not affected
by some bad reviews because history doesn't repeat itself with this
one. It's got an interesting story and some fabulous actors and acting.
Don't miss out.
<|_=00=_|>
Again the Danny Ocean bunch with the biggest heist of all . Reuben
(Elliot Gould) suffers a heart attack for a treason and as revenge
Danny Ocean pull off a plan introducing the schemes for a new robbery
venture and gathering the eclectic group for a new caper . This time ,
Benedict (Andy Garcia) agrees with Ocean backed by his motley gang to
execute it , the group is the same people (Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Don
Cheadle, Scott Cahan, Bernie Mac, Casey Affleck , Carl Reiner, Qin) .
Their objective is the ambitious Willie Bank (Al Pacino), owner of a
luxurious Las Vegas hotel . He turns out their victim along with the
hot woman manager (Ellen Barkin) . The crew back in action , in the
inauguration day . They blew all the light , shutting off the electrify
and provoke an earthquake on the hotel . The thirteen men team headed
by mastermind George Clooney attempting to rob the game-table ,
jackpots from hotel casino proprietary of mogul Pacino , executing
simultaneously . We never met a band like Ocean's thirteen . This
rendition gets one of the greatest entertainment of the trilogy .

This thrilling as well as hilarious heist film displays from the
beginning to the ending , comedy , suspense , plot twists along with
limited action of varied manner . There appears special cameo by Oprah
Winfrey , Julian Sands and Jerry Weintraub , he's trilogy's producer .
The film contains an intelligent screenplay and ,of course, outstanding
final surprise . The comic relief being developed during the amusing
relationship between the several and motley characters and their jokes
among them . Atmospheric musical score by habitual saga , David Holmes
. Colorful cinematography though sometimes some dark about interior
scenarios photographed by the same , as usual, Soderbergh . This is a
funny and stylish following ,being well directed by Steven Soderbergh .
