
Although "The Great Debaters" does not open until Christmas, I had the
good fortune of seeing it at a preview -- and I can recommend it
without reservation. It is a great story, based on real events that
most of us never heard of, about a debating team from Wiley College, a
small black institution in rural Texas, that performs extraordinary
feats because the kids are good and the team is taught by Mel Tolson, a
real person, acted by Denzel Washington, who also directs. Forest
Whitaker, like Washington an academy award winner, plays James Farmer
Sr., the school president and the father of one of the debaters, James
Farmer Jr. (yes, that James Farmer Jr.). The participation in this
enterprise of Washington, Whitaker, Oprah Winfrey and the Weinstein
brothers should draw crowds (provided the film isn't cursed by being
described as "uplifting," though it is). The revelation in this film
are the performances of the three principal debaters: Jurnee Smollett
as Samatha Booke (with an "e", as she proclaims when she tries out for
the debate team), Nate Parker as Henry Lowe (also with an "e" as he
announces in response to Samantha's declaration) and Denzel Whitaker as
James Farmer Jr. (It's an amusing coincidence, but he is unrelated
either to Denzel Washington or to Forrest Whitaker.) You may have seen
Jurnee Smollett earlier in her career when she was a "cute kid" and a
promising actress. This film could be her portal to stardom. In
addition to being a gorgeous young woman, she's also an accomplished
actress, ready for bigger parts in the future. You'll also be impressed
with her colleagues, people whose names you may never have heard. You
don't have to be black to find this film engrossing; I'm not. All you
need to be is (a) a human being and (b) someone who appreciates a good
movie. I hope it makes a ton of money at the box office but it is,
above all, a quality film. It just happens to be about a difficult
period in American history, the rural South in the 1930's. It just
happens to be inspirational and uplifting and all that good, boring
stuff that cause your eyes to roll when that's how the critics describe
it. But it's better than uplifting. It's GOOD and it's REAL.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Great Debaters" is a very fine film.

It reminds us of what it means to be excellent, to stand for something
good, to love with all our hearts, and to shine.

The performances, or the cinematography, historical care, or
directorship all lift it out of the ordinary.

And in its difficult subject: racial tension and the education and
discovery of values by the three young debaters from Wiley College, one
of the oldest colleges in America, it creates real excitement and
interest.

But the real reason that this is a fine film lies in is its plea that
in education lies the reasoning, the power, and the will to change
history. That learning lies not just in knowledge but also in applying
that knowledge to better yourself, your world, and all of humanity.

The very significant point of the film is at the end. I can forgive the
slight drag here and there because the ending is magnificent and
explains something crucial about American history by its finish.

From an era when bigotry, racism, and degrading behavior was a wretched
norm to our era where values are mutable, where dumbing down has no
limits, and taste little place; "The Great Debaters" stands out as
being a story that stands against all of these things.

The rating says it all: excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
Two words perfectly sum up this movie - inspirational and uplifting. I
have not seen Antwone Fisher, but I will be sure to check it out after
seeing this.

Before watching this, I had never even heard about Wiley College or
what it did in the '30s, so not only is it great entertainment but it
is also educational. I don't know how closely the movie follows the
actual events so I can't point out the flaws, but it doesn't matter
because the movie is brilliant and moving. This is an underdog movie
and you'll be rooting for the Wiley College team throughout the movie.
The acting is marvelous by all the actors, but recognition has to be
given to the three stars that portray the debaters, Denzel Washington,
and Forest Whitaker. Not only is Denzel great as an actor, he is even
better as a director. As other reviewers have said, out of all the
actors Denzel Whitaker is the star. His portrayal of James Farmer, Jr.
is outstanding and this role will certainly further his acting career.
Forest Whitaker doesn't have a huge role to play, but he performs his
parts beautifully (for example the hog and the sheriff scenes).

Overall this is a very inspirational and uplifting movie. I wouldn't be
surprised if it gets a few Oscar nods. 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I say this because: 1) The acting is remarkable. Denzel Washington,
Forest Whitaker, Nate Parker, Jurnee Smollett, Denzel Whitaker, and
Kimberly Elise are all stunningly good 2) The cinematography is very
well done and the score is beautifully and uplifting. 3) The story is
great. It has multiple underdog themes which when watching, you root so
much for the underdog it actually hurts :). These would be: a) the
black people in the south in the 1930s b) little Wiley collage
(especially when they are vs Harvard) c) the 14 year old boy James P.
Farmer Jr. (Denzel Whitaker) who is seemingly incapable at first of
debating. Do yourself a favor and see "The Great Debaters". You are
going to love it.
<|_=00=_|>
In his sophomore effort, actor-director Denzel Washington has created
one of the best films of the year, The Great Debaters. Never trying to
be the cliché coming of age tale of student-teacher relationship that
becomes like a bad aftertaste like past efforts, as Mona Lisa Smile;
the film takes a high road to transform its narrative into a beautiful
canvas for Washington to paint on like forgotten masterpieces like
Stand and Deliver and Dead Poet's Society. Adapted from a Tony Scherman
article by Robert Eisele and Jeffrey Porro, the film follows an
astonishing pace and never forcing anything down the audience's throat
rather, uses images and manifestations for its armor.

Washington's achievement here is pulling the performances of this new,
unknown young actors. Denzel Whitaker as the innocent, curious James
Jr. is wonderful in exposition of character and gives the best child
performance of the year. At 17, young Whitaker should have no problem
coming into his own as a great young leading man in the future. Nate
Parker in a momentous breakthrough performance indulges the audience as
Henry, the angry young college student dealing with the inequalities of
African-Americans in the South. In the end it's the tenacious
performance by the beautiful Jurnee Smollett that holds the emotional
premise of the film together. Not only dealing the racial barrier, but
the barrier of being a woman, a woman running away from her past and
trying to settle into a world dominated by the differences of her own.
Smollett's debate speeches are felt with every word, every expression,
and every influential command. Smollett's performance is the ignored
performance worthy of consideration for awards of 2007.

Not expecting too much from last year's Oscar winner Forest Whitaker
probably helped him in watching the film. Whitaker reminds the viewer
of how great he was for years before The Last King of Scotland. This is
a true superior work on the actor's resume. So how Denzel Washington do
in directing himself? Not glossing as much as Clint Eastwood and Kevin
Costner past works, Washington does an admirable effort and takes the
supporting role (yes it's supporting) and acts as the film's right hand
man. Adding his charisma, potency, and veteran thespian persona, the
film is a success.

In terms of Oscar's chances, costume designer Sharen Davis nominated
for her designs in Ray and Dreamgirls is worthy of citation. David J.
Bomba's production design is quite easy on the eye and captures the era
of tyranny and persecution. With the potential to be a late surge to
the Academy Awards race, The Great Debaters delivers on every level
encompassing the richness of love, the evil of oppression, and the
beauty of triumph.

Grade: ****/****
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes you can enjoy every second of a movie, every frame, and be
phenomenally moved by it, and cry a happy tear  and yet, when you
ponder the film afterward, you feel disappointment, a sense of "why
couldn't this film have been braver?" For me, this was that kind of
film. There's just no subtlety in it and situations are stock.

Best things: the design of the film, the cinematography, the casting of
the primary characters, and, most importantly, the inspirational theme
of debating, of speaking well as a way out and up. I hope it inspires
young people of all races to clean up their bad speech habits, speak up
and be heard. As the Samantha character says at one point, in wonder,
"I didn't need weapons, I had words!" 

Worst things: predictable plot line, the fact that the speeches
themselves, while well delivered, are not always well formulated, and
the deliberate decision to end with an unalloyed triumph when the
actual situation was less glamorous and more poignant; other postings
here have explained why. As someone pointed out, the white characters
are demonized (I would say "stereotyped") and not only by cretinous pig
farmers in Texas but by the young Harvard debaters whose delicate
features and snooty bearing make them seem like Stepford Scions. Oh,
well  black characters in films have often been stock but one must
ask, if that was wrong then why is this right now? 

Oprah is a soft-hearted person with an aspirational dream for her
people. That's nice but it doesn't necessarily lead to great art.
<|_=00=_|>
Of course the title deals with debating but it goes far deeper than
that. Forest Whitaker, playing a true academician in every sense of the
word, has both a precocious and gifted 14 year old son played by the
brilliant Denzel Whitaker,no relation, and that son is none other than
James Farmer Jr.,whom 7 years later becomes the founder of C.O.R.E.,
the Congress on Racial Equality. Thus began the beginning of the end of
segregation as well as the vicious Jim Crow laws of the South which
made it as difficult for a Negro to live and thrive there as it did for
the Jew in pre-war Third Reich Germany. Yet, the film was basically not
political in theme.

It deals with a small black college in Texas,Wiley,that had a poet plus
a political agitator played by Denzel Washington as many students'
mentor. Denzel, knowing that if given the chance, a few gifted students
could form a debating team to challenge any college team in the nation
and he sets out to prove it. Keep in mind that the main theme of the
Civil Rights Movement was "if given the chance" and so the film builds
on it and does the kind of damage to opponents as did the great "Brown
Bomber," Joe Louis.

Although a bit slow moving and at times, pretentious, the film was very
skillfully done in bringing to light the efforts accomplished by the
African Americans to do away with the perniciousness having pervaded
this nation from the time the first slave ship landed on our shores.
Without delving into the ultra-political, nevertheless we are made to
see for ourselves how prophetic became the words "We can overcome".

Who wrote, "And the youth shall guide them?" Truer words never written.
Those Wiley College kids, without anything but minds for weapons,
caused a revolution from the mid '30s to the present--kids who put real
meaning into the Emancipation Proclamation.
<|_=00=_|>
THE GREAT DEBATERS is a movie-going treat, with young people
exemplifying truth, respect, pride and dignity. In an entertaining way,
with some preaching, this movie shows four African-American debaters
succeeding in the face of adversity, growing stronger with success AND
defeat. Their debates are lively and thought provoking.

However, before, during and after these contests, other serious and
complicated issues are revealed. Two of these issues deal with a
confrontation on the road between two farmers and a minister, and a
lynching in the middle of the night. Both are reflections of the time,
unsettling and disturbing to those in the movie and in the audience.

This is not family entertainment, nor is it mindless entertainment. It
has no gratuitous sex, but there is a hint of romance. It is fast
paced, but the action is verbal  not physical. THE GREAT DEBATERS
lives up to its name in that it has something for everyone, and not
everyone will like it. I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a
quality film that will be debated by all who see it!
<|_=00=_|>
This wasn't about my Texas, although I am familiar with many of the
topics in this film. I have been to Marshall in my travels over most of
the highways in Texas, I know about Paul Quinn College and Prairie View
A & M University. This wasn't even about my Daddy's Texas, as he was
just a small boy at the time. It was, however, my Grandfather's Texas.
he typified the characters in this film.

With Denzel Washington directing and acting, I expected an outstanding
film. I was not prepared to be so emotionally taken in that I left the
theater wiping tears from eyes. This was a powerful statement about the
differences in American. Differences that were typified by Franklin
Roosevelt's affirmative action program for whites - the New Deal;
differences that would be repeated twenty years later after WWII when
the whites again received affirmative action in the form of the GI
Bill. Robert Eisele's story really brought home the pain and
deprivation of being Black in America, and how some could overcome that
deprivation with the right help, but could never overcome the pain.

Besides Washington, there were outstanding performances by Forest
Whitaker, Nate Parker, Jurnee Smollett, and Denzel Whitaker, as a
14-year-old in college.

Tears in my eyes, I will long remember this film as one of the best of
the year and of many years.
<|_=00=_|>
The Votometre doesn't show decimals, but really my number rating is
6.9. Today, anyway....I may change my mind tomorrow.

Knights of the South Bronx, Akeelah and the Bee, Glory Road- we've seen
this movie before, and we've seen the same themes before. A feel-good
underdog story with the typical American cinema's portrayal of Blacks
centred one-dimensionally on how they are forced to relate to the issue
of "race" in a racist and classist society.

At least the characters in this film get to display their full humanity
and are not reduced to one-note caricatures, centred on their "race".
These characters are not stereotypes, but fully realized human beings
who have decided that not only education, but intellectualism, is as
much their birthright as any American.

There are major problems with the script and/or the editing of this
film that will hopefully be rectified in the DVD edition. There are
several character arcs that have no logical building, just a
juxtaposition of problem and solution later in the narrative. Forest
Whittaker's humiliation during the pig incident, and his subsequent
redemption in his son's eyes when dealing with Denzel in jail- there's
dramatic stuff missing in the middle that makes me think that this is a
three-hour film. Ophrah has been known to do those, so why not here? 

We all know Ophrah Winfrey is full of good intentions. But as a
film-maker, whether in front of the camera, or behind it, she has a
very limited repertoire of themes that inspire her. We all know that
the poor lady practices counter-transference in everything she does,
but funding a $30 Million psychotherapy session should not be one area
of her practice.

By fictionalizing a true story (not Harvard), you rob the narrative of
its one true virtue- it really happened. And by fictionalizing it, you
make it merely product to stand with the other films of identical
theme. I don't buy the film-makers claim that by altering the venue
from USC to Harvard they are able to show the magnitude of the Wiley
team's achievement. Some careful exposition through the film could have
easily made USC do quite nicely. 

No, Harvard is the symbol of the white eastern intellectual elite, of
white class and privilege, and that is why the film-makers chose
Harvard. I am not sure that this is a legitimate reason for me to
complain, though. As the Harvard Chancellor says in introducing the
Debaters, Harvard is the school of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and
numerous other US Presidents. Harvard IS America: the Debators are
knocking at America's door and saying "we coming in 'cause we live
here, this is our home".

The characters in the film certainly are enamoured with the possibility
of being associated with Harvard. The device of the black butler at
Harvard is not fully explored, but the choice to include him
accentuates the viewers' perceptions of Harvard as a racist
institution, and a locus for racial oppression. 

Part of the problem in North American education (in Canada and the
U.S.) is alienation of certain groups by not telling their stories,
rendering them 'invisable' to themselves and the wider society. When
you fictionalize an important human story, you are essentially saying
to everyone that the real history isn't good enough. And it IS! It
seems to me that that can be potentially damaging, because you are
saying that the real story isn't worth being told. And it IS! 

Note to Denzel- take the training wheels off, you did "Antoine
Fischer", you didn't have to film it twice, and please don't do it a
third time. Antoine was a much more self-assured and cinematic work.

This film would have worked far better as a stage-play- not surprising
since it was written by a Pulitzer-prize winning playwright. The actors
do their best to "elevate the material" and are actually the reason why
the film is worthwhile to watch and engaging: the actors are uniformly
charming and charismatic. It is their feelings and common humanity that
I empathize with on screen.

This film is set in the Great Depression. This is of little consequence
to the main characters of the film. But, Denzel's Communism seems to be
a throw-away theme, as are the plight of labourers and share-croppers
themselves. "Of Mice and Men", or John Sayles' "Matewan", or even the
Coen Brothers' "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" are films that explore
these themes with much more authenticity.

Social injustice is portrayed in this film as racism, not as the
poverty that creates an underclass, regardless of skin colour. In the
climatic debating scene, political reaction to racism is the theme,
provided by the debaters own experience of witnessing a lynching. 

Yet, racism has its roots in classism, and economic oppression that
could have equally been cited in this movie. It seems to me that
Denzel's communist character could have made better use of this avenue
of social commentary. But perhaps, being an American film, nobody wants
to hold capitalism itself responsible for racial oppression, and
therefore, the larger issue. 

The central characters are middle class, even in a racist society. And
it is worth remembering that even in the Depression, the employment
rate was 70%. 

Does civil disobedience have a place in today's society? Or, is that
theme used in this film as a precursor to the Civil Rights movement of
the 1960's? With Barack Obama less than 12 months away from his
Inauguration, Stephanie Wilson sitting on Harvard's Board of Governors,
and Ophrah the richest woman on the planet, memory of injustice should
be memory of fact, and anger at injustice directed towards the present,
and focused on eliminating that injustice.
