
Michael Douglas is a secret service agent framed in a plot to kill the
President of the US. Kiefer Sutherland is the agent on his tail.

Its not a bad movie its just been there done that with form over
content film making. There is no real tension because the actors are in
roles they've played a dozen or so times before (Sutherland in 24 each
week)so you can pretty much walk them through whats happening.Thats the
problem here, its all been done before, better.

The real question is: Do I really need to pay 10 bucks a head to see
whats a essentially a big screen TV movie? I think not. As I said its
not bad, its just not worth running out to the theater to see. Wait for
cable where this movie really belongs.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had all the potential in the world to be a modern-day "In
The Line Of Fire", with great suspense, story, acting, action, etc...
but the Director missed the ball. Every action and suspenseful scene
was missing the added element that separates TV-movies from box-office
blockbusters. It's hard to put into words, but watching all the action
and suspense scenes felt like I was watching a mid-budget USA or TBS
movie. The cast was great and them combined with a good screenplay and
overall plot saves this movie from being a disaster. There was too
little character building as well, especially for the 'bad guys'. The
story was still good and the movie overall will still be entertaining,
but needless to say, I was disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Sentinel" is an average-at-best action drama that does not come
remotely close to reaching its potential. The entire movie feels
rushed, with random details about each character's past thrown at you
in a poorly-written screenplay. The revelation of the true bad guy in
conspiracy films normally elicits at least some form of surprise or
intrigue; instead, in "The Sentinel" the character is far too obvious
and the scene reveals a tangential and unexplained back story that
should instead be much more central to the plot.

The rush to cram details in every fleeting moment ruins this movie. For
example, without spoiling the film, the culminating chase of the movie
is ruined by a ridiculous proclamation of certain password to get by
people; the ridiculousness of the situation takes away from what should
be a tense finish.

This review is not meant to be overly disparaging; the film received
5/10 because it is a moderately entertaining summer movie and I did not
regret going to see it. However, the skeleton plot seemed to be trying
too hard and the characters were not well-utilized. Eva Longoria is
very attractive though.
<|_=00=_|>
There was some hesitation from my part about what this movie had to
offer. For starters, the casting didn't seem right. Kiefer Sutherland
had already done very well in "24" and the preview didn't seem to offer
anything challenging to him or the audience. Eva Longoria appeared out
of place, and the rest didn't seem very interesting.

When the film finally ended, I was not completely displeased for I had
seen a decent thriller that could have been much better, had the
responsible parties taken a little more care to watch for the narrative
gaps and given a little more care to character development. We have
seen threats of this type before, and that made the main conflict much
more challenging to the writers. As an audience, we don't want to sit
through the same old story again. We want to see something different,
be thrilled and entertained.

There is nothing wrong with the casting. From Kim Basinger's delicious
first lady. She carries herself with enough grace and sex appeal to
make the part memorable. Michael Douglas has been and done that before.
Unfortunately, the president is much of a non entity to even care about
his fate. Sutherland rehashes his "24" tough guy approach with enough
power to make it big enough for the big screen, and Eva does a passable
job, as the newcomer.

Don't expect as many twists and fireworks as some of the established
classics ("North by Northwest" and "The Fugitive" come to mind). Leave
your expectations outside and enjoy the ride for whatever it might be.
It's o.k.
<|_=00=_|>
You'd think Michael Douglas would have learned his lesson by this time,
but apparently he hasn't. For even after all the trouble he had with an
adulterous romance in "Fatal Attraction," here he is in "The Sentinel"
playing the role of Pete Garrison, a veteran secret service agent who's
having an affair with none other than the First Lady of the United
States. Even worse, when it is discovered that there may be a mole
secretly operating in the service, the finger of suspicion begins to
point directly at Mr. Garrison. Is he truly the undercover operative
working to bring down the President, or is he merely a tool being set
up as a convenient fall guy in a plot to rub out the nation's chief
executive? 

Based on the novel by Gerald Petievich, "The Sentinel" is a decent
enough thriller set in the high stakes world of political
assassination. Although it frequently strains credibility, gets lost in
a maze of cyber/techno mumbo jumbo, and succumbs to a few too many
man-on-the-run clich√©s, the movie still manages to generate enough
mystery and suspense to see us through most of its many rough patches.
Prime credit goes to Douglas, who after all these years, could clearly
do these roles in his sleep, and to Keifer Sutherland, who plays a
fellow agent with personal reasons for doubting Garrison's probity and
loyalty to the institution. Kim Basinger also does a fine job as the
beautiful First Lady torn between duty towards her husband and the man
she loves.

You'll probably forget this movie the moment you walk out of the
theater, but you should have a reasonably fun time while you're still
in your seat.
<|_=00=_|>
In 'The Sentinel' Michael Douglas plays Pete Garrison, a veteran Secret
Service agent. He is being investigated by David Breckinridge (Kiefer
Sutherland) when it comes to light that there may be a traitor in the
Secret Service who might be involved in an assassination plot. But
David takes his investigation rather personal because he also feels
Pete had an affair with his ex-wife. Agent Garrison must now prove his
innocence and protect a President that everyone else believes he is
trying to kill.

This film was rather disappointing. It is too much like 'In the Line of
Fire' only not as good. There are several plot lines that go
unexplained and few circumstances that are too unbelievable. It was not
a convincing film.

Neither Michael Douglas nor Kim Basinger did that good of a job. Kiefer
Sutherland seemed to be reprising his role from '24'.

I just hope the novel was a little better.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been 19 years since Gordon Gekko used "Wall Street" to let us know
that greed is good. Now, Michael Douglas takes the GG persona and
morphs it into a Secret Service agent, Pete Garrison. Guess what? It
works! This is a solid political thriller that kept me guessing. The
detail work in showing the security precautions taken by the SS on
behalf of the President and First Lady was likewise intriguing. All the
leads were pretty good but, try as I might, I could not accept Eva
Longoria as a Secret Service agent. Whereas Jodie Foster just made you
suspend belief and really think she was FBI agent Starling in "Silence
of the Lambs", you do not get the same feeling with Longoria.
Nevertheless, this is a fun film, escapist entertainment with the
Beltway as the backdrop.
<|_=00=_|>
The veteran agent of the American secret service Pete Garrison (Michael
Douglas) saved the life of president Ronald Reagan in the past and
became a legend. Presently he is responsible for the personal security
of the American president Ballentine (David Rasche) and the first lady
Sarah Ballentine (Kim Bassinger), with whom he is having a love affair.
When his informer Walter discloses that there is a traitor in the
secret service and a plot to kill the president, his former friend
David Breckinridge (Kiefer Sutherland) and the chief of the secret
service William Montrose (Martin Donovan) are in charge of the
investigation and all the agents are submitted to a polygraph test. Due
to his situation with Sarah, he is compromised with the results and
accused of treachery. He escapes, and in spite of chased by the secret
service, he conducts his own investigation trying to find the
responsible.

"The Sentinel" has a reasonable idea, of an agent failing in the
polygraph test due to his love affair with the first lady, but the
screenplay does not have any care for the characters. The running time
should be longer and not waste in so many exaggerated details relative
to the protection of the American president, and give more attention to
the characters. In the end, the story is conventional, badly resolved
and with bureaucratic performances of the good cast. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Sentinela" ("Sentinel")
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance, this film looks like the Keifer Sutherland series 24
for the big screen. With the focus on a plot to assassinate the
President of the United States, a race against time, and plenty of
Secret Service agents, the agency under the spotlight in The Sentinel.

But wait, the protagonist turns out to be Michael Douglas' character
Pete Garrison instead, a veteran Secret Service agent famed for taking
the bullet for Reagan in 1981. The SS agents are specially trained to
"take the bullet", which is what makes them special - who in the right
mind will put themselves in the line of a bullet and a target? But
Garrison gets implicated in the assassination plot, and has to run for
his life while at the same time doing his bit of investigations into
the plot. All this because of his failure in a polygraph test, due to
his adulterous banging of the First Lady (Kim Basinger). Tsk.

There are shades of Clint Eastwood's In the Line of Fire. Both featured
aging actors, and aging veteran has-been heroes with a bit of a
historical reference, who took the bullet in their respective tours of
duty. While Eastwood's movie has a more enigmatic villain in John
Malkovich, The Sentinel suffered from its lack of a central strong
villain, preferring to share the assassination responsibility amongst
many forgettable ex-KGB villains, and the mole within the Presidential
Detail. With Douglas on the run from the law, he becomes similar to Dr.
Richard Kimble of The Fugitive, hunting the proverbial one-armed man
while at the same time, relying on his smarts to outwit fellow agents,
which turned out to be quite interesting to watch - despite slick
processes, it still boils down to the performance and gullibility of
individual agents.

Keifer Sutherland and Eva Longoria, top TV stars of today from 24 and
Desperate Housewives, get relegated into support roles as the Secret
Service investigators who are looking into Garrison's probable
involvement in the assassination plot, and at times seem to have lept
off the pages of CSI with their forensics skills. The beautiful couple
had chemistry that could have resembled X-Files' Fox Mulder and Dana
Scully, but alas these two had very little to do here. We know the
reason why they're in the movie, and that is to get their fans into the
theatres. Also, Longoria's role seemed unable to shake off her
sexy-mama Gabrielle, and here, has her in fairly low cut blouses
(Sutherland actually tells her to cover up) and tight pants (ogle-fest
for fellow agents).

Nonetheless, it's still a pretty interesting look into the lives of
probably the most highly charged and tense protection detail in the
world, and the typical threats that they face daily, including the
following up on every nutcase's threat on the life of the most powerful
man in the world. It's a decent suspense and investigative thriller,
with enough subplots to keep you entertained. But one thing though,
like most ending action sequences, this one has a big enough loophole
for you to fly a jumbo jet through.
<|_=00=_|>
This, for lack of a better term, movie is lousy. Where do I start......

Cinemaphotography - This was, perhaps, the worst I've seen this year.
It looked like the camera was being tossed from camera man to camera
man. Maybe they only had one camera. It gives you the sensation of
being a volleyball.

There are a bunch of scenes, haphazardly, thrown in with no continuity
at all. When they did the 'split screen', it was absurd. Everything was
squished flat, it looked ridiculous.

The color tones were way off. These people need to learn how to balance
a camera. This 'movie' is poorly made, and poorly done.

The plot - You got to be kidding. If I was an SS agent, I'd sue the
producers. looked like the Marks Brothers with radios and guns.
Sutherland was in his '24' mode - I can see this for free. Eva Longoria
would have been better with a little less on, and a lot more showing.
As an action bimbo she wasn't much.

I couldn't see a real plot, other than Douglas boinking the Presidents
wife. Never did say why the mercenaries were trying to kill the pres. I
just don't see the President of the United States running for his life
in the utility tunnels of a building, like a rat in a maze.
p-l-e-a-s-e.

Hollywood is dead. This movie is the proof. I like 'the big screen'.
Have since I was a kid. Many more 'movies' like this and I'll quit
going. Whats the matter Hollywood, made so many chick flicks, forget
how to make a real movie? If I owned a theater, I'd start running the
old movies. The one with real actors, good story lines - and good
Cinemaphotography.

This 'movie' is a dog. Don't waste your time or money on it. I rate
this 'movie' a zero! Douglas isn't suited for this role. I can over
look his age, but his just is to much of a wimp to carry this off.
