
IBTC was the opening night film at the Indianapolis LGBT film festival
and I did not enjoy it. The most frustrating aspect of this film is
that it had a good premise and could have been something truly powerful
for the community.

For all of its expression of feminist empowerment, it is utterly
amazing that the filmmaker expects the audience to accept that the main
character can use and abuse the friendship of the transgender character
and be together with the pretty little femme girl, who has a history of
using and abusing other women. That ending completely undercuts many of
the themes of the film itself.

On top of that, the only characters with any depth at all are those
that, interestingly enough, are more stereotypically feminine in their
appearance. The more ambiguous characters are all very one-note.

And that ending...the plot holes are glaring. How did Aggie find
himself operating a camera on a nationally-syndicated television show
without being discovered by those who already work there? Also, someone
has clearly commandeered the control room and no one is attempting to
take it back? Oh, and how long have such talk shows been broadcast
live, with no delay or edit? I'm sure that someone will point out that
this is a comedy, but it should still be consistent in its own logic.

Once again, Jamie Babbit has come up with an interesting premise and
refused to do it justice.
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointing. The lead characters have sizable boobs that would be
considered "acceptable" by most men and women. Plus, one of them has a
terrible nose job. When you already "have boobs," it's not as big a
deal to refuse a padded bra as when you have "no boobs" and are
considered "flat-chested," which is what I have experienced for many
years. Where were the feminine characters with itty bitty titties?? I
didn't see any in this film. It's possible to be femme and have small
tits-- as in A or AA cup, not B cup or larger-- although the
brainwashing forces of society would have us believing otherwise. For a
conventionally pretty girl with tits (Melanie Diaz) to start an "Itty
Bitty Titty Committee" seems condescending and indulgently
self-righteous. I want to see itty bitty titties for real, and not only
on "butch" women. Where is the authentic physical representation? This
movie is not real. It's a minefield of mixed messages just like any
other media geared towards women.
<|_=00=_|>
Some friends of mine recommended me the film Itty Bitty Titty Committee
because they know the lesbian film Kissing Jessica Stein is one of my
favorite romantic comedies.I did not like that film only for the
lesbian subtext,but because I found it funny,honest and much more
credible than most of the romantic comedies,in which the central couple
falls in love because the screenplay says so and not because the
story,performances or dialogues make us believe on that.Although I
liked Kissing Jessica Stein more,Itty Bitty Titty Commitee is an
excellent film which goes much more far away than being a simple
romantic comedy,thanks to its intelligent screenplay and its
fascinating ideas.The themes and messages from Itty Bitty Titty
Committee are valid and simply great.This movie represents a great
antidote against craps like Aquamarine and Bratz : The Movie,in which
the female ideal is represented by the sizes of the bosoms,the
popularity and the fashion.This movie also uses the "culture jamming"
to spread its ideas,something similar to what people like Abbie Hoffman
and Joey Skaggs did to show the hypocrisy,stupidity and contradictions
from the society.The great thing this movie does is that it takes all
that ideas putting an own ideology which leaves the spectator thinking
and discussing when the movie is over.I truly admire when a movie
provokes that on the spectator (at least in my case).I also appreciated
the irreverent attitude from the audacious screenplay.The performances
are excellent because they show enormous energy and enthusiasm.The only
fail I found on this movie is that the ending could have been a bit
more polished.But that's a minor fail which did not avoid me to like
this movie very much.Itty Bitty Titty Committee is a brilliant movie
which kept me enormously entertained and interested thanks to its
performances,style,energy and its excellent screenplay,which is full of
sharp dialogues and which has something to say.And,besides of
entertaining me a lot,this movie also left me thinking.We need more
films like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes for this film, after loving 'But I'm a Cheerleader',
but frankly, I was disappointed. It was particularly difficult to
empathise with the main character, Anna, because she just came across
as a bratty, angsty teen without any depth. The relationship between
Anna and Sadie was terrible. I just couldn't bring myself to route for
them, because Sadie treated Anna terribly and Anna was better without
her, as shown at the end when the plan comes together. I hated the
ending because I just didn't like the relationship and how it was built
up. This film would have been better if it focused on the group more as
a whole, because it raised some issues that are important, and had more
interesting characters in it than Anna and Sadie.

Basically, I wouldn't recommend this as a 'must-see' lesbian film,
because there are so many that are better. But it raises some
interesting political debates, so as long as you're not too bothered
about liking the characters, you should watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Rarely have the ideas of social rebellion, political anarchism, and
radical feminism reached such an uninspired status. Itty Bitty Titty
Committee seems like a gay film for the self-conscious or the quiet
homosexuals; a film that they can watch and release their inner-self,
yelling at the screen and even going as far as personally siding with
the character(s). However, due to its thin and uncertain nature, this
film doesn't appear to have much of a thought as to what direction it
wants to go in. Political commentary? Humanizing the feminists in
general or the characters in the film? The idea of exercising the right
of an opinion in a country that fears unpopular ones? These are all
discarded while the film attempts to make up its mind.

The story concerns Anna (Melonie Diaz), a young woman working at a
plastic surgery clinic and has just gone through a rough breakup. She
is inhabiting a life of utter dullness, slogging through numerous
patient appointments, and obtaining stress from her sister, whose
wedding is right around the corner. When she meets Sadie (Nicole
Vicius), a social activist responsible for the "C(i)A" (aka, "Clits in
Action," if you couldn't make out the little text reference. The C(i)A
works in giving the impressionable public a taste of the strength that
women possess, yet are forced to repress in a male-dominated culture.
They reject marriage, both gay and straight, defile public landmarks,
and stage protests with strong, incorruptible messages feeding on power
and deviance. Anna soon becomes consumed in this lifestyle, and her
morals and ethics become flipped upside down as her obedient nature is
turned into a smarmy, non-conformist personality-change that feeds on
ego and narcissistic intentions.

There's nothing more disappointing than a film with an idea that
results in a missed opportunity, and Itty Bitty Titty Committee is a
grand one. Its idea could instantly brew a fiery sociological debate
among pro-feminist and anti-feminist activists based on the content and
issues it shows to its audience. Unfortunately, it gives us dull,
archetypal anarchists whose motivations seem to not be because of
global needs, but shallow personal ones. Our lead characters, mainly
Sadie, seem less concerned with how others feel and more concerned
about their well-being and personal needs.

Even the monologues delivered by the members of the C(i)A leave a lot
to be desired. When we're dropped into a world foreign to our "normal"
one in films, we'd like to be provided with a little backstory into the
setting, time period, and philosophy of the characters. Consider Red
State, Kevin Smith's film that focused on a devoutly religious family
that committed atrocities against gays and non-believers. The leading
male, Michael Parks, was given a roughly ten minute monologue
expressing the motivations of his church in a shivering and unblinking
shot. The dialog given to the audience here is disjointed, largely
unmemorable, and those unaware of feminist goals or common tactics will
not learn very much about them other than they are self-righteous,
outcasts in society, and very concerned about how many site visits
they'll receive. And they have a talent for swaying Anna with their
tactics in only what seems to be a few days.

On the bright side of things, director Jamie Babbit (of But I'm a
Cheerleader fame) continues to show promise in her career as a
director, as do several of the actresses here, and the soundtrack and
cinematography were the two primary things keeping me alert and in-tune
with the film. Yet the lack of an introduction on feminism itself, the
repetitive state of events, the senseless and absurd ending, and the
emptiness of any deeper meaning, Itty Bitty Titty Committee quickly
spirals down to the level of forgettable obscurity I'm almost certain
it was trying to avoid.

Starring: Melonie Diaz, Nicole Vicius, and Melanie Mayron. Directed by:
Jamie Babbit.
<|_=00=_|>
Wickedly talented director Jamie Babbit once again has her finger on
the pulse of queer culture with this wry romantic comedy in which
anarchic punk twenty-somethings vivaciously vandalize patriarchal
symbols under the name of the C(I)A (Clits in Action). Fresh out of
high school, mundane lesbian Anna has no direction or motivation.
Having recently broken up with her girlfriend, she is the maid of honor
at her picture perfect sister's wedding and works a monotonous job at a
plastic surgery clinic. It's not until she meets foxy Sadie as she's
spray painting empowering statements on Anna's office window that she
wakes up and finds a purpose. Intrigued, she follows Sadie down a seedy
back alley to her guerrilla girls' headquarters and meets the other
membersangst-laden artist Meat, brainchild Shulasmith and ally
transman Aggie. Even though these rebels are a bit slapdash, their
down-with-the-man attitude and infectious style has the precocious
baby-dyke fired up and joining the fight! As the estrogen flows during
a crucial road trip, frolicking friends and alluring glances ignite a
steamy romance between Anna and Sadie that could upset the delicate
order of the C(I)A. Set to the inspiring riot grrl music of
Sleater-Kinney, Bikini Kill and Le Tigre, Itty Bitty Titty Committee
isn't your traditional feminist film: instead, it's an ode to grrl
power for the gender-bending queer punk generation.

This film was a lot of fun! As passionate and serious as these
anti-male-dominated-society grrls tried to be, they tended not to stray
too far from reality and didn't take themselves too seriously. There
were lots of hard laughs for me, starting with the name C(I)A and
ending with the take-over of the Marcy Maloney TV set! In addition to
all the fun and laughter, I also enjoyed the themes of friendship,
loyalty, betrayal, and purpose. 10 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
I once tried to submit my review a couple of weeks ago, but somehow
there was some glitch about "gender" being one of the prohibited words.
So I will try once more.

I mostly enjoyed this engaging story about a small sect of feminists
and lesbians who call themselves the C(i)A. In fact, that really would
have made a better title for the film, which was more about the whole
of feminism and equality than women altering their bodies to appease
some societal standard. Ana (Melonie Diaz) is a young lesbian trying to
get over a recent breakup. She works in a cosmetic surgery clinic. She
doesn't really love her job, but she's undecided about what to do with
her life, so she just goes with it. One night, she hears someone
spray-painting her building with feminist slogans and tries to call
911, but when the beautiful and enigmatic Sadie (Nicole Vicius) struts
up to her, Ana falls in love again, and is quickly swept up into the
C(i)A's political demonstrations and takes their message into her
heart. 

But maybe a little too much. There is nothing wrong with being a
lesbian, and there is certainly nothing wrong with being a feminist,
but when Ana begins acting bitchy towards her older sister, who is
getting married, talking about how marriage is a stupid and useless
institution, she is being ugly and inappropriate, hurtful and
disrespectful. Remember, Ana, many people still believe in marriage and
want it in their lives, even lesbians and feminists. I presume Ana has
taken the influence of Shulamith (Carly Pope), the no-nonsense leader
of the C(i)A who often takes angry, confrontational stances on things,
but where Shulamith is mostly controlled and constructive, Ana is just
being bratty. In fact, Ana, being the main protag, is kind of
unlikeable in many ways. She has an annoying habit of putting "Ahhh" on
the ends of many sentences/names/words, i.e. "Sadie-ahh! Please-ahh!"
It's just an annoying habit, like nails on a blackboard. The other
thing that made me mad was how she used Lauren Mollica's character,
Aggie, during a fight with Sadie. Sadie was less annoying than Ana, but
her constant battle with "obligation" vs. ending a relationship with an
older feminist (Melanie Mayron) that is no longer viable is irritating
too. The supporting cast is mainly what makes this film fun and
engaging. I am in lust with Daniela Sea, who plays Calvin, and I love
the character Meat (in spite of her being named after a balding guy
playing a high school jock in the Porky's movies!), played by Deak
Evgenikos. Good cameos/small roles include Melanie Lynskey, Jenny
Shimuzu, Leslie Grossman, and Guinevere Turner.

The ending seemed way too contrived. Attacking the white phallus in
Washington? Didn't seem plausible at all. It would have been so much
more fun and realistic if a cool pirate or indie TV station had caught
the girls in one of their milder stunts and interviewed them on TV. The
could have all sat, smiling, their faces on screens all over the
country, saying, "You may not like what we have to say, but we're
saying it anyway." A good effort for the most part.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie a slow kick off. I will say it is a movie that represents a
good feeling of honor, slight crude humor and has you walking away from
the movie feeling very feminist. The acting isn't at its best but it
could be worse. The story line and attitude it brings along with it is
very teen and yet it makes you feel happy to be who you are and even
dare I say it the movie shows a representation of really just a 'You
Only Live Once' vibe yet for me I enjoyed that. I would watch the movie
again yet not on a regularly basis. So putting the topics to a summary
the movie contains a healthy attitude to body image, a comforting look
into the LGBT community and a good explanation and understanding of how
society and the government combined can be manipulated against it self
and alter the minds of the community. So to wrap it up I would say the
movie is defiantly a unique one and is worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
This film, which centers around the activities of a clandestine gang of
radical feminists who attempt to culture jam patriarchal imagery and a
young high-school graduate (Anna) who joins them after being invited by
their really attractive leader (Sadie), not only provides a cute
storyline (though, obviously not completely realistic), but actually
gives an airing to debates that exist within the feminist, queer, and
activist communities in the United States.

The conflict between more traditional community organizers, activists,
and nonprofit leaders (such as Sadie's mainstream feminist girlfriend
Courtney) and more radical groups (like the C.I.A.) is explored in the
film in a way that's actually fairly level-handed... while the C.I.A.'s
exploits are somewhat glorified, we also get to see the tension some of
the characters (like Anna and Courtney) exhibit bridging these two
worlds. The debate between members of the queer community who are
pro-marriage and those who want to move away from marriage as a social
institution was also showcased. These are kind of heavy issues, but the
film brings them up in a way that does not detract from its ultimate
mission of staying lighthearted and fun.

Furthermore, I thought that this film actually portrayed queer
characters (who often receive no visibility in film) in a way that was
more or less realistic. The members of the C.I.A. range on a full
spectrum from more traditionally feminine presentations (like the
femme-y Sadie and Shulamith) to more masculine or butch presentations
(such as Calvin). Shulamith's queer identity (at the beginning of the
movie she dates men before she meets Calvin) provides a sense of
diversity in orientations, negating the idea that "straight" and
"lesbian" are the only valid identities for women. And Aggie, the
pre-testosterone, pre-operation transman, is presented
realistically--even though he is not fully transitioned, the characters
use correct pronouns and affirm his male identity, which is good to
see. The riot grrl soundtrack and references to all different kinds of
activism add to a kind of feel-good and playful anarchist vibe that,
while it may not change the world, at least gets people thinking while
they have some fun. Because this movie is smart, but doesn't take
itself too seriously, I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw the movie for the first time today. Europride in Stockholm and
a three day short gay/lesbian film festival. And there it was...Itty
Bitty Titty Committee. Strong women doing their thing with conviction.
Beautiful women making statements with humor. Angry women, laughing
women, arguing, lovemaking and united women. The theater was full of
women, only standing room left. And when the "top" of the D.C. monument
blew away the whole crowd cheered and clapped hands! This film made a
lot of people very happy today. And that is an excellent grade for a
movie. This is a comedy. With a happy ending. And I strongly recommend
this movie for everyone with a sense of humor!
