
*** This comment may contain spoilers ***

This must be close to the plot synopsis:

Man: "You know we're always saying we could use 50 million dollars?

Woman: "Yes" 

Man: "Well I have a cunning plan." 

Woman: "What's that then?" 

Man: "First of all we need to find an aeronautics engineer working in a
foreign country, with a child, and an encyclopedic knowledge of the
layout of a particular long-haul plane." 

Woman: "Why's that?" 

Man: "Well then, you see, we murder her spouse, in such a way as it
looks like an accident." 

Woman: "What for?" 

Man (exasperated): "Well then of course, we bribe the mortuary
assistant at the hospital into letting us place explosives inside the
casket." 

Woman: "But why?" 

Man: "I'm coming to that. Then we wait until the woman decides to
return the the U.S." 

Woman: "But what if she doesn't?" 

Man: "She just will, okay? So anyway, when she decides to return home
we find out what flight she's on. Hopefully she is not only placed on
the type of plane of which she has encyclopedic knowledge, and flying
with the airline of which you're a flight attendant, but also on the
same flight as her dead husband's casket. Are you following?" 

Woman: "I think so." 

Man:"Good, we're nearly there. Then all we need to do is falsify the
checking-in information to remove all record of her daughter, make sure
she gets on the plane half an hour before everybody else, ensure there
is a row of empty seats behind her and get me on the flight, sitting
nearby." 

Woman: "And then?" 

Man (laughing): "Now this the cunning part. She takes the empty seats,
allowing her daughter to sit in the aisle seat, then when she goes to
sleep, all I have to do is steal a food trolley, stuff the daughter
into it and hide her in the hold. Oh, and did I mention that we must
ensure that nobody on the entire plane sees the daughter?" 

Woman: "Isn't this getting a little far fetched?" 

Man (angry): "What do'you mean? It's a great plan? All I have to do
then is remove the child's boarding pass from wherever the mother is
keeping it without waking her, assist her search for the missing child
in the guise of an Air Marshal, convince the captain that the woman is
mad and that the child died with her father (through a forged note from
the mortician), and wait for the mother to escape from my custody. 

Woman:"Escape, why?" 

Man: "Because the casket can only be unlocked by her, so once she's
unlocked it I can set the timer on the explosives. From there we're
home and dry. I merely have to recapture her, convince the captain that
she's actually not mad but a hijacker who wants 50 million dollars and
give the Captain our account number, asking him to ensure the money is
paid straight in. Oh, Then we land, everybody gets off the plane, I
shoot the mother and blow up the daughter and nobody is any the wiser.
We walk away with a cool 50 million. Simple eh?"

Never before have I wasted two hours of my life on quite such egregious
nonsense.
<|_=00=_|>
Flightplan is a psychological thriller that takes place almost entirely
on an air-born jumbo jet en route to New York, from Berlin. Jodie
Foster plays Kyle, a mother who find that her daughter is missing after
awaking from a nap. The jet also carries Kyle's husband, who recently
died and rests in his casket in the cargo hold below. Kyle becomes
increasingly frantic as she searches the plane for her daughter without
success. The crew becomes adversarial, writing her off as a loony when
they check the flight manifesto and find no record of her daughter ever
being on board. Thus enters the psychological component of the film.
Not only is the audience confused as to what has happened, but Kyle,
after speaking with an on-board psychiatrist, also begins to have
doubts about her own psychological stability in the wake of her
husband's death. No one is sure what to believe, until a subtle clue
jolts Foster back to reality, and back to her MacGuyver like maneuvers
to attempt to recover her lost daughter.

It's an interesting premise, and oddly similar to Foster's previous
film, Panic Room, in which her maternal character is forced into a
confined space with no outlet. In keeping with most of Foster's
performances, she plays a strong-willed, intelligent woman who
overcomes difficult circumstances. As expected, Foster delivers, and
pulls the audience into the story. I was disappointed, however. Foster
has more to offer than Flightplan is capable of giving her. Flightplan,
while entertaining, remains among those psychological-thrill-rides that
are only as successful as their audience is unsuccessful in knowing the
truth during the course of the film. To achieve this, the film has to
throw a slew of false leads and suspicious looking characters into
early shots in order to have the audience questioning.

I'm not fond of this technique. It's possible to keep the audience in
suspense, and guessing without trickery. To me, this degrades the
integrity of a storyline.

I was pulled in by the impressive marketing campaign of Flightplan and
went to theaters excited. The film lived up to the aesthetic advertised
-- a slick blue hue that reminds the audience of the snowfall in
Berlin, the death of a husband and father, and the unfortunate and
unforgiving circumstances that have befallen Kyle and her young
daughter. And while this makes for a very sleek looking film, in the
end, the fantastical, convoluted storyline cannot be realistically
reconciled. I left the theater feeling somewhat cheated. While I
realize it was a story and therefore ought to be granted a liberal
amount of leniency when it comes to plausibility, Flightplan went to
far outside the realm of conceivability. There were too many factors
that had to conspire in favor of one person for the films storyline to
hold together.

The real problem with Flightplan is that the more you think back, the
more you become frustrated with how inconceivable the whole charade
was; the more you become irritated with how often you were lead to
wonder about something eventually irrelevant. There are some films that
don't give you all the answers and pull you along on a suspenseful
ride, and leave you feeling fulfilled when you finally figure
everything out, and everything fits together. Flightplan concludes, you
know the culprit, and then you think back, and nothing fits together.
<|_=00=_|>
I think we have some sort of record. The steps needed for the criminals
in this movie to succeed are:

1) Jodie deciding to go to the states on the same airplane as her dead
husbands coffin. 2) An accomplice at the check-in who deletes any
record of the daughters ticket. 3) that jodie chooses to be the first
onboard - otherwise some of the other families with children might
notice the child when she boards. 4) That the flight attendant doesn't
notice the child when they board. 5) That the child stays hidden for
three hours of flight. 6) That Jodie decides to sleep in the back of
the plane with her child, so the kidnappers can whisk her away in the
troll. Had Jodie and the child stayed in their seats, the kidnapping
would have been impossible.

Improbable as this seems, the plot holes's just getting started. Now we
need Jodie not just going amok, but escaping to do another feat:
Remember how an airport security guy, at the beginning of the movie,
tells Jodie she needs to lock the casket (with a code) for security
reasons? (apparently, in this alternate reality, any coffin can get by
airport security because 'coffins aren't x-rayed'). It seems the
criminal actually needs to get hold of and move the explosives hidden
in the coffin so he can blow up the child in the front of the plane (to
cover the fact that she was onboard, i guess). So now the scheme of the
criminals hinges on: 1) Jodie goes to the bathroom, crawls up a trap
door, shortcircuits the lights, uses the confusion to get to the
basement, opens the coffin, keeps the lid up and lets her self be
caught.

I didn't understand this at first, thinking that the writers couldn't
be that idiotic, but why else set up the idea of a digitally locked
casket? She, it seems, has to open it! And when this setup is complete,
the criminal only has to convince the captain that this crazy mother is
a terrorist whos suddenly gotten hold of a detonator for a bomb.

I think the writing is, in many ways, intriguing. I fail to remember
any movie with a plot quite so convoluted. Please respond if you can
think of any.

Yours truly, Lars
<|_=00=_|>
You know how angry, frustrated and anxious you get when an airline
loses your luggage? Well, imagine being on a plane with your child when
you awaken from a brief nap only to discover that your offspring is
missing.

To compound matters further, imagine that no one remembers seeing your
child on board and all passenger lists and appropriate documentation
lead to a conclusion that your child never set foot in the flying tube
30,000 feet above the Atlantic.

That is the premise behind the new Jodie Foster (Nell) film Flightplan
that delivers just enough thrills and spills to squeeze out a three
star rating from his critic.

Reprising the claustrophobic atmosphere of her last starring vehicle,
Panic Room, Foster stars as Kyle, as recent widower that decides to
take her 6-year-old daughter back to America from Berlin to escape the
memories surrounding her husbands tragic suicide.

However, after catching a little shuteye at the back of the plane, Kyle
awakens to discover that her daughter is missing and that no one
recalls ever seeing young Julia on board.

Is she crazy? Is it a conspiracy? Does Julia exist or is this all some
kind of a bad dream Twilight Zone episode that will end with Patrick
Duffy lathering up in a shower? The game, as we say, is afoot and Kyle,
under the very watchful eye of Air Marshall Carson (Peter Sarsgaard)
runs up and down the AIR E-474 jumbo jet in a frantic attempt to try
and convince others that her daughter is on board and that conspirators
are attempting to conceal her whereabouts for reasons unknown.

This is the second thriller set aboard a jetliner in just two months 
the other being Red Eye  and Flightplan does just as good a job of
instilling fear and tension aboard a vessel where mobility, options and
hiding places are limited between the nose and tail of the aircraft.
Flightplan does find a way to up the ante by putting us aboard a
monstrous flying machine. This AALTO Air E-474 can seat as many as 800
passengers and has two stories, 7 galleys, crew quarters and a cockpit
larger than my apartment. This allows the characters therefore to run
up and down aisles and makes the disappearance of a small girl more
believable due to the many small rooms and electrical hardware gadgetry
spread out throughout the quarters.

Flightplan had just enough good points to out number the bad  but not
by much. First and foremost at the front of the line was the incredible
performance of Foster in the lead role. Channeling emotions evoked if
she had lost her own daughter, Foster delivers a knockout performance
that was as strong as any female lead in a thriller film since
Sigourney Weaver strapped on the weaponry and stood up to the queen
alien.

Also notable was the support staff that is each believable in their
respective roles. Peter Sarsgaard continues to put in one good
performance after another and everyone from Sean Bean (who finally,
FINALLY makes it to the end credits of a film without being killed!) to
Erika Christensen (Traffic) are provided just enough screen time to
advance the story without having anyone go over the top in an attempt
to steal the spotlight.

That's the good. The bad includes a bad guy who has what I call the
Bond-villain syndrome whereas he feels he has to talk out loud
revealing more than anyone in the same situation would for the purposes
of ensuring us dumb audiences know the who's how's and what's behind
the plot, and an ending that is kinda bumpy landing after such a long
flight.

However, director Robert Schwentke does a good job of rising above most
of the screenplay's shortfalls and delivers a Hitchcockian caper that
is well worth the price of admission even if you will hardly remember
most of the plot points by the time you see it on the DVD shelves early
next year.

www.gregsreviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
Just when we thought we had enough suspense this year with the airline
thriller Red Eye, along comes another that brings some heavy
competition. Hitchcock fans will be delighted to know that German
director Robert Schwentke has made a movie with a story just about as
good as some of Hitchcock's - one that keeps them on the edge of their
seats, and seems to keep the guessing game going until the end.

Jodie Foster (Panic Room) plays Kyle Pratt, an airplane designer whose
husband apparently fell off their roof and died recently. She and her
daughter, Julia (Marlene Lawston), are relocating from Germany to New
York City, having to transport her deceased husband with them on board
a massive double-decker airplane she designed. Kyle has been having a
few delusions of her husband still being alive, but she always comes to
her senses and realizes that he's not. But when she falls asleep during
the flight and wakes up to find her daughter missing, she becomes
alarmed and proceeds to look for Julia.

How many places could she be, right? That's the question everyone on
board is asking. But when the Captain (Sean Bean) finds out that no one
saw Kyle's daughter on board, that she's been through a lot of stress,
and her daughter's boarding pass cannot be accounted for - he starts to
think Kyle is mentally disturbed. As the flight goes on, he is informed
that Julia apparently died along with Kyle's husband - pointing to what
looks like a troubled marriage and a suicidal husband taking their
daughter with him off the roof. Is Kyle imagining her daughter is still
alive too? The entire crew and all the passengers seem to think so,
particularly one man named Carson (Peter Sarsgaard, The Skeleton Key),
who proceeds to ask all the hard questions that she doesn't want to
hear.

Even though 99% of the movie takes place on board an airplane, the film
never ceases to entertain. Foster gives us a riveting performance,
making sure we can see the passionate look in her eyes that she is
absolutely convinced her daughter is alive and that she's willing to go
to great lengths to find her. She tackles an Arab man, breaks airline
rules, enters restricted areas, etc. She drools, she claws...well not
really. But she's definitely one mother you don't want to mess with.

This film does a good job at depicting the post 9/11 atmosphere one
gets when riding an airplane, everything from undercover air marshals
to passengers being wary of Arabs. It also reminds us of how annoying
airplane flights can be, with hyperactive kids acting up right in front
of you, or snobby passengers who say things like, "It's not like she
lost her Palm Pilot." By the middle of the film, most of the passengers
are just as patronizing, as they clap when Kyle is escorted back to her
seat after causing a stir.

It has its share of unique cinematography, with obscure camera angles
(like a sideways shot beneath an airplane landing), but other seemingly
pointless slow-motion shots that don't add much to the scene. But most
of that doesn't really take away from the story and the wonderful
performances the actors give.

The movie does raise a few unanswered questions (ones I can't ask here
without spoiling the plot), but they're easily forgivable. Is the film
really that good? Well, it depends on how one views it. If one is
expecting an original story, he/she will likely come out disappointed.
However, it remains enjoyable if one just sees it simply as a story
that, while not original, is a story well-told.

Dan Geer MovieLegacy.com
<|_=00=_|>
The number one rule in making a thriller is, if you're ripping off
Hitchcock, make sure you do it right! The movie's plot is very simply
Hitchcockian -- a woman, Jodie Foster, loses her little girl aboard an
international flight several thousands of feet in the air, and nobody
on board remembers seeing the little girl at all, much less her
disappearance. The movie's full of simple plot elements: a desperate
mother, the claustrophobic atmosphere of the plane and the helpless
skepticism of the airline personnel. The problem is the plot ultimately
makes no internal sense, and the underlying emotional issues, while
beautifully played by the talented Ms. Foster, are idiotic as well. All
movies like this are manipulative by nature, but the really good ones
hide the strings (Hitchcock was a Master of this art) while the bad
ones, like Flightplan, display their flaws so obviously you find
yourself sitting in the theater snorting at the improbability of what's
happening. The big twist that's supposed to shock doesn't make sense,
supposedly intelligent characters act extremely stupidly and the
emotional manipulation is ham-handed and ineffective.

So -- what did this movie do right? The performances are uniformly
decent, though not in themselves interesting enough to save the movie.
And the director keeps the movie from utter pointlessness by keeping
the movie visually interesting. The movie's color palette is blue and
grays, and the airplane is full of sleek curves and surfaces. The
camera does all sorts of tricks, like filming a conversation from the
outside of the windows, but which ultimately does nothing for the story
or the movie overall.

I didn't hate this movie, mostly I was dismissive of it. Nothing
engaged me, or interested me, and the ending made me roll my eyes. It's
true: a bad script kills a film every time.
<|_=00=_|>
Rarely have I been so annoyed by a film. Perhaps this is because
"Flightplan" starts off with such promise before descending (ha ha)
into a laughably ridiculous, clichéd, and downright boring final third.
The movie develops as a fascinating and emotionally gripping story of a
delusional woman who is convinced her dead daughter accompanied her on
board as has been kidnapped.

**SPOILERS** ... but surprise! She is, in fact, correct!
Coincidentally, none of the 500 passengers saw the girl or witnessed
her kidnapping. Coincidentally, the air marshal and a flight attendant
are in cahoots to orchestrate a hijacking threat, demand a $50 million
ransom, and attempt to pin the entire thing (including the on-board
ransom demand) on a woman who has no idea what is going on. Right.

What surprises me is how far off base Roger Ebert's review was of this
film. He writes, "Often in thrillers we think of obvious questions that
the characters should be asking, but do not, because then the problems
would be solved and the movie would be over." That's right, and
"Flightplan" is a textbook example. Jodie Foster's character figures
out the entire conspiracy, gains control of the situation, is able to
take the hijacker's gun ... and then gives the gun to the captain, has
him leave the plane, and seals all the exits so as to be alone with her
(surprise!) still-armed foe. Sure, this allows for yet another
limping-attacker-slowly-chasing-resourceful-woman climax, but the
repeated blatant assaults on the audience's common sense and credulity
are simply too much to take.

"Flightplan" seemed promising as it slowly established the
impossibility of the actual explanation it provides. There is the
possibility of a good movie in there, but as it stands, "Flightplan" is
an enormous cheat.
<|_=00=_|>
"Flightplan" seems to have affected IMDb contributors like no other
film in recent memory. Mostly is bad. We didn't catch up with this
picture until recently. Frankly, we are puzzled as to why the hatred.
Granted, the film had the potential for being better, but it's not the
total failure as some of the comments in this forum will make one
believe. It appears there's an agenda to mark "Flightplan" comments as
not useful.

Director Robert Schwentke working with Peter Dowling and Billy Ray's
screen play, hasn't added much to the film in order to make it a
thriller to be reckoned with, but, in general, the film is not a total
waste, as seems to be the perception among contributors.

In a way, "Flightplan" plays with the viewer's perception as to who is
behind the disappearance of Julia, the six year old girl traveling with
her mother, Kyle, to New York. Kyle has suffered a great tragedy in her
life when her husband was found dead in her building's courtyard. The
fact that Kyle hasn't been able to accept the death is clear in the
first sequence when we see her sitting inside the Alexanderplaz metro
station in Berlin.

Kyle, an aircraft designing engineer, is a good mother. One can imagine
her panic when she wakes up from a nap to find Julia's gone. No one
seems to have noticed the little girl; there is no record of she ever
been on board. Kyle meets resistance from the crew of the flight. Even
the sky marshal, Carson, is no help at all. What's a mother to do? If
one is in Kyle's shoes, one starts taking matter into her own hands.

Jodie Foster does a good job portraying Kyle. She is a mother who
doesn't take no for an answer. In fact, she is the one that unravels
the mystery surrounding her daughter's disappearance. The climax
sequence is perfectly set, as one would expect it to be.

Peter Sarsgaard, is Carson, the sky marshal traveling in the economy
section. He is in charge of the safety of the passengers on the flight.
In an unusual role for him, Mr. Sarsgaard has some good chances in the
movie. Sean Bean plays the pilot of the jumbo jet. Kate Beahan is seen
as one of the flight attendants. Erika Christiensen is also part of the
crew.

The best way to enjoy the film is not to compare it to anything else
and just go for the entertaining value in it because we know this is
not a ground breaking film, but thanks to Mr. Schwentke and his cast,
it offers us a bumpy ride of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
****SPOILER ALERT**** Don't read any further if you want to see the
movie without knowing too much.

Turn off your reasoning faculties at the ticket counter.

Jodie Foster is an aeronautical engineer based in Berlin. She lives
there with her husband and daughter, and when he dies from an apparent
suicide leap from the roof of their apartment house, she is left to
bring his body back to the US, accompanied by their daughter. The build
up of suspense is quite good at the beginning of the film, the airline
delay, having the horrible experience that she may have lost the
daughter in the airport, boarding, then the de-icing of the plane, all
little touches to get the viewer on edge. Once they're airborne, they
switch seats to get a row to themselves and sleep. Waking up three
hours later, Jodie finds her daughter missing. Ever more frantic, she
searches the plane, finally getting the captain involved, but things
start to come a little undone for her when the crew tell her there's no
record of her daughter on the manifest. It's let out that her husband
has recently died, she's on anti-depressants, and possibly she's
imagining the whole thing about being with her daughter. I won't tell
any more, but the spoilers are many: As someone else said, why was the
girl allowed on a plane without a boarding pass going through the
machine for the passenger manifest? Why steal the girl in the first
place? What was the point? How did they reach into Foster's pocket and
steal the daughter's boarding pass without her waking up? Why have real
explosive involved anyway, if the intent was merely extortion, fake
stuff would have done the job just as well. Was the air-marshall real
or was he a fake, if fake, how did he get credentials that fooled the
airline? Are we seriously to believe that they'd kill Foster's husband
just so they could plant explosives in his casket? And if they did, why
choose an aeronautical engineer's spouse - someone who knows the plane
inside out - why not choose Janet Schmo and her husband Joe?

I came out of the movie calling "bullshit".
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was terrible, just terrible. It was almost like it didn't
have writers. As if no one even checked the script for what year it
was, or if their any of the characters had a personality or even names.
The credits list first names to the characters but the movie didn't use
them. It was like nobody even bothered to develop this film past the
very early stages of script construction, and yet the film somehow got
through all the stages of film production and distribution.

All the "best" lines are spoken off screen by random extras that only
exist in ADR. Some zingers come from any number of stereotypical angry
passengers who portray a particular class or race. My favorite was a
man in first class who says about a woman looking for her daughter:
"It's not like she lost her palm pilot." PALM PILOT! What year is it?
Who wrote that at the turn of the century and then kept it for
safekeeping until 2005. As if the main characters weren't shallow and
underdeveloped enough, the filmmakers decided to add some 2D extras
just in case. Don't even get me started on the Arabs or the guy with
the mustache.

Seriously, do we need someone to bring up racial profiling in such a
surface level way. A film that almost has to tackle our racial
stereotypes about terrorism skirts over this pitfall by eliminating
terrorism at all. White people can hijack a plane (spoiler, oh by the
by, the plane is basically hijacked, spoiler) but then it's
white-collar crime not an act of terrorism. Every race has its flaw.

Just an awful film. How anyone talked Jodie Foster, Peter Sarsgaard, or
even Sean Bean into this plane wreck is beyond my comprehension.
