
I am not sure why this film is getting so many poor ratings. It is an
excellent piece of film-making with a cracking script, fine
performances and imaginative direction. A real eye opener that deserves
a wide audience.

The movie has sparked some controversy in the UK for 'glorifying' the
violence, sex and drugs portrayed but that is rubbish, this is
essentially a deeply moral tale at heart.

Mark Kermode gave it a very sensible and measured review on his Radio 5
slot and I am in agreement with him.

I predict that a number of the actors in Kidulthood will go on to
bigger things. A group of talent to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Over the waters, it seems anyone not from England is in love with that
wonderful Richard Curtis-like view of the globe, which is neither bad
or drastically inaccurate, but covers a very small percentage of what
life in the UK and particularly ordinary UK people are actually like.

Refreshingly comes "Kidulthood", an all too accurate if at times
sensational version of average school-kids in London. We meet an
assortment of characters, most of them only likable on a limited level,
who's only motivation is to get through each day and fill the voids
with partying, be it with drugs or sex, or petty crime. The film takes
us through two days of their lives and how each character, be it the
misguided Trife (Aml Ameen) or the sexually motivated Becky (Jamie
Winstone) as well as others, on the day when a big party looms and the
suicide of a classmate seems lurking in the background.

Growing up on a London housing estate and seeing the changes throughout
the years has made me over-critical of films depicting this. The
dialogue always being too polished or too neat, the accents as
caricatured as Dick Van Dyke's cockney chimney sweep (the recent "Green
Street" and anything Guy Ritchie suffered from this in spades) but
refreshingly all this is absent here. The performances are very real,
so real, that it would be easy to confuse them as weak, particularly
with characters such as Claire, played pitch perfectly by Madeleine
Fairley with her words always having that hollow ring of someone saying
what everyone around her wants to hear, rather than what they're really
thinking. The language is fluid and the style completely believable;
this is an excellent window into an average group of modern teens, as
depressing as that is to admit.

Marrying it to the excellent visual style and the lack of obvious
moralising is both a strength and a weakness. Visually fast paced,
using sliding split-screen and cinema scope, married to the creme of
British gangster rap, this looks great, hiding it's indie roots and
looking more like Steven Soderberg's 'Ocean's Eleven' than Larry
Clark's 'Kids'. The pros of this are the audience it needs to reach
will interpret this as 'cool' and maybe will end up seeing the
characters as teen movie icons, more than stopping and thinking what
the overall message is.

It's disturbing, mostly in small gestures rather than the grand
shocking ones. A pretty teenage girl is bullied, punched with a bone
shattering crunch as her attacker screams at her to pick up the ring
that flew off her finger, Claire is intimidated by her boyfriend by him
warning that he'll tell everyone she is a lousy lay (and that's the
clean version) with personal hygiene issues, as she pathetically begs
him to stop; it's certainly not a film for those seeking a
rose-coloured view of society.

"Kidulthood" is a much needed reply to the belief that England is a
pretty cool place and it's teens as going through a harmless phase. It
is entertaining but without selling itself out, despite an ending thats
a little too explosive to believe.

Not since Garly Oldman's 'Nil By Mouth' has a film seemed so richly
realistic and it's to the director and the writer's credit that they
have achieved this.

Whilst sad, it's not as 'slash your wrists' depressing as you might
assume either; the power of the film is one that lingers after and
hopefully it is that, that might reach to people not only affected by
what they've seen but most of all identifying with it.
<|_=00=_|>
If like me you have despaired at the way that the London has been
portrayed in films over the last 10 or so years this film is a God
send. This is a London that truly reflects the city as it is today and
not as it was in the 50s, like films such as Notting Hill, Wimbledon
and Love Actually to name but a few. Added to that the film isn't to
bad considering the recent track record of UK films. Its a bit like
Larry Clarke's Kids meets Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing with added
Grange Hill (a BBC Children's drama programme)all set in & around
Ladbroke Grove & Harrow Road, London.

The film tells the stories of a number of kids given the day off school
after a girl kills herself after being bullied. What ensues over the
next 24 hours includes a relentless tide of booze, drug taking,
underage sex, stealing as well as Gun-crime. And not once is there any
preaching or moralising that is left to the viewer to make there own
mind up on.

The performances in the main are some what workman like however two
performances stand out, that of Aml Ameen (Trife) and Jamie Winstone
(Becky). Of the two, Winstone is some to look out for because on the
evidence of this film she has a bright future. Director Menhaj Huda
handles things well from Noel Clarke's first time script, again both
are to be looked out for in the future. The film also has a firin'
Soundtrack by some of the UK's Hip Hop & Grime artists, giving the film
the feel of a US production.

As I said in the beginning this film is an antidote to all those fay
Richard Curtis film's we've had to endure over the last few years. One
hopes that the filmmakers get the opportunity to make more like it, if
not in the UK in the US.

The film is definitely one to check out if you can.
<|_=00=_|>
As a black girl living in London, I saw how this film portrayed real
life. In the scenes at the beginning, in the school, I could relate
fully to the events. People may not think that it truly represents
black people, or schools in London, I beg to differ. You obviously have
not been in a bad enough school. The language used in the film, the
slang, is a part of life now. I look at schools on the telly and wish
that I do not have to call everyone 'blud'. If I do not, I will get
beaten up for 'trying to be white'. Kidulthood was a fantastic film,
showing, yes, a different way of life, but a true representation of it.
It was actually quite unnerving at how similar life is for my community
to that of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Like one of the other reviewers on this site I am going to vote 10 out
of 10 for Kidulthood to try to redress the anomaly of its incredibly
low score. Something is surely wrong with the IMDb system when most of
the reviews on the site are positive yet the film has such a low
rating. Anyway I thought Kidulthood was a very realistic 'urban
streetkids' film which captured perfectly the style, speech and
violence that happens every day around London's inner city schools. I
thought the acting was absolutely fine especially considering the age
of most of the actors - have those criticising the actors actually seen
the way that teenage kids behave because I think they were all very
believable. The film was tense, violent and gripping and is a nice
London take on the issues of teenage gang violence.
<|_=00=_|>
So. Kidulthood. There has been a lot of talk about this film and how
it's a little over the top that it happens in one day. That may be so,
but the issues faced in the film are what that demographic goes through
and i think by audience reaction so far the film makers choice to show
this was correct. I also believe people are missing the point. Film
like books doesn't have to answer question. I thought The film itself
is beautifully shot. Tufano has used everything at his disposal to make
the low budget work, and with clever editing and music any weak
directing is quickly covered. the acting is amazing with the Young
Ameen (Trife)an Madrell (Alisa)using their raw talent to put in Stella
performances. One wonders if they can get any better than this. If they
can i believe the future of British TV/Film is in good hands. Noel
Clarke's performance as (Sam, the Bully) was downright amazing. Seeing
him totally convince me that he was not Wyman or Mickey, (the
characters he plays in two well known shows)Was a treat. His menace and
the intimidation factor he bought to Sam showed that many films that
have used a British rapper in the parts may have missed a trick.
(Although i have heard that in real life he is more like Sam than the
those other characters mentioned. Apart from thee abusive bullying part
of course.) Jamie winstone is also a great as (Becky) and the laughs
come from Deacon (Jay) Clarke's script although great, suffers at times
with the over use of bad language and violent scenes which seem a
little too much. the general chatter of the young people is real enough
though snatched straight from the streets of Ladbroke grove itself. You
believe the conversations the kids have and kind of like their youthful
ignorance. The lack of police is a bit unreal and you would think
parents would be around a little more but the film makers say that this
film is supposed to be from the kids point of view and not many kids
get up to bad stuff with mum around. Overall i would say that although
not perfect, i would say that this is the best homegrown film in at
least ten years. You will love or hate this movie (I personally loved
it) but you should definitely see it. British film, in all it's low
budget grittyness is back. You get me! (That's what the kids say
right?)
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen a bundle to Brit flicks that show a hyped by stylish
glamorised side of London . Should be Lock Stock , or Snatch , or maybe
even Notting Hill these movies have always shown the romantic side of
London . However that Ladies and Gents is only the sugar coated topping
, there is another world underneath that what is known to most of us
who grew up on the streets of London as the real world . The director
of Kidulthood does a masterful job giving us a vision of the urban
hell-hole that we have all come to know ! The social issues that are
highlighted in this film are spot on , whether it be the drug abuse ,
teenage pregnancies or the ever looming threat of the gang culture with
the idiotic craze which is known as Happy slapping .We have all read
about , seen it and, probably worst experienced it . Kidulthood
presents to the viewer a true , grim , depiction of a life a 15 year
old black teenager Trife and his life growing up in the tough
neighbourhood and school where words come cheap .We are taken into his
world for just 1 day and meet a whole host of characters who fit into
the doomed path of life probably just like Trife . The acting was over
the top brilliant to the point where to me personally it felt that it
was not a film but you were watching someone's life unfold in front of
you as the director chose's location's that were truly urban nitty and
gritty to the point that you don't need to marvel at the breath taking
scenery , you just want to focus as the story rolls along . I'm not a
huge fan of Uk hip-hop but this time it seemed to fit in and add to the
flavour of the film . The only drawback was that it was a little to
over hyped and once or twice it did feel a bit unrealistic in some
places but it stood on track and the humour was pretty funny in places
as well especially with the white hoody guy. In general Kidulthood is a
deep , dark , depressing look on the darker side of London's youth and
by looking at it one will walk away probably wanting to take a look
back at his life and see where is his or her future heading for .
Kidulthood is highly recommended film by not only my-self but several
other movie lovers and I shall very likely purchase this when it hits
the DVD'S.

KIDULTHOOD SCORES : 8 OUT 10 FOR NOW THIS IS THE SHADOWMAN WISHING YOU
ALL GOOD LUCK AND GOOD NIGHT .
<|_=00=_|>
Kidulthood is a sharp reality. The reviewers and newspapers simply
cannot handle the pure honesty of it, its gritty, British and true. The
upper class society have been doing this for years, ignoring exactly
what they know is going on. But they still avoid the gangs wearing
their hoodies up and jeans round their knees. Kidulthood, although
slightly drastic and exaggerated depicts exactly how the teenage
generation does business. The name is catchy but could be better. You
cant ignore the strength of the acting, and the realness of the
language and use of sex references. Because its all honest, the writing
is genius and comical at times, with an amazing editing and film
structure. I loved it, see it.
<|_=00=_|>
A bold and brave film, that never pulls any punches. A group of
teenagers living very negative lives see the suicide, due to bullying
of a school friend and the schools closure as an excuse for a day out
the streets. Some of the characters are implicit in her fate, but
refuse to see their culpability. Utterly selfish and shallow, many may
think that these kids deserve nothing from society they abuse at every
turn. Its adults who despise and are frightened by them are mere
counterpoints throughout the film. An English version of KIDS but
without the horrible voyeurism?? Do these kids deserve better from
society? Do they a represent a threat to society itself? These kids may
be horribly violent, disrespectful, but are incredibly believable. They
cannot see outside the confined personal friendships and conflicts, but
we are left with a genuine sense of loss and despair at the end of the
film. A remarkable and striking British film
<|_=00=_|>
STAR RATING: ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little
Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits 

When a girl who has suffered horrific bullying at school commits
suicide, it leaves 15 year old Trife (Aml Ameen) and his two friends
with the day off school. Trife starts the day by learning the unwanted
news that his on-off girlfriend is pregnant and the baby might be his.
Frustrated at hearing this, he sets off with his friends and embarks on
a day of increasingly dangerous mischief. Juxtaposed with their story
is that of his girlfriend, her qualms about keeping her baby and her
moral free mate willing to do anything to score money and drugs. Their
paths are set to collide and result in a devastating climax.

Kidulthood has that look and feel of a film out to shock (it managed a
15 certificate, but it must have only just scraped it!) If it's
painting a picture of what life is really like for chavvy kids like
this living on housing estates in inner-city areas, then the film
manages to leave an even more downbeat and depressing taste in the
mouth than it already did. It's well-acted enough, with a good lead in
Ameen (who I recognized as Officer Lewis from The Bill-wouldn't have
thought he'd come off as a 15 year old though) and a decent supporting
cast, including an attractive presence in Madeleine Fairley (but, what
can I say, a chavette's a chavvete!) It has a fine soundtrack, too,
including some notable work from Mike Skinner and The Streets. It's far
from a bad film, as it is, too, it's just so relentlessly bleak and
with little in the way of humour and light that it never manages to
come off as a truly enjoyable experience in any way. Still, it delivers
what it says and more. ****
