
Now let me get this straight. I'm not Alan Partridge. I didn't decide
one Monday afternoon, while eating a double decker, to come on to IMDb
and give a review. That would be illegal. Neither am I plugging double
deckers. They're really nice though, and I reckon Jesus would probably
eat them. I digress. Alpha Papa is amazing. Alan Partridge will surely
get the Oscar nod for best actor. If you thought Brokeback Mountain was
stunning (I didn't) then you'll bend over backwards to watch this. Alan
doesn't play a gay cowboy, but rather a non-gay radio show presenter
who ends up in a siege (sorry about the spoiler). And he doesn't die at
the end either like Bruce Willis in Sixth Sense, or the dog in Bob
Marley and Me. No, he lives after enduring what can only be described
as an epic battle of man versus another slightly crazy man, who looks a
bit like that bloke off Star Trek with the fake Irish accent.
Anyway...don't waste your time watching Monsters University or the
slightly camp Wolverine who has knives and forks for hands. Watch a
real man in action giving the performance of his life.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of Alan Partridge I was looking forward to seeing this and I
wasn't let down. I'm not sure what people who haven't seen the TV shows
will make of it but for fans this is a big treat. 

The plot is pretty flimsy but when you have a character like Alan
Partridge you really don't need much of one. The jokes and laughs keep
flowing and whilst some miss the mark there are plenty of scenes that
will have tears running down your face. Some of the old favourites like
Lynn and Michael (slightly superfluous in this) are here but this is
all about Alan. 

It plays like a very long version of an episode but it's face paced
enough to never get tedious and the film just flies by. This is a film
that can be enjoyed by anyone and may even garner a new generation of
Partridge fans. 

Alpha Papa is a comedy that actually makes you laugh and is highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Have to say, this is the funniest film I've seen in a fair few years
now. I'm a massive Partridge fan but these cinema outings for TV
characters can fall on their face... this didn't...

I dragged the wife along who's NOT a fan and even she had tears in her
eyes laughing her head off... whole screening was packed and everyone
loving it. If you DON'T like Partridge, you won't like this... simple
as that... however if you do, be ready for a fantastic film.

Fair play to Coogen and the writers... to keep the character fresh
after 20+ years... and then base a whole film at a radio station for
90+ minutes and entertain, that takes some writings. Go watch... you
will not be disappointed and it's Partridge at his BEST!
<|_=00=_|>
Every die hard Partridge fan will love Alpha Papa. Although as usual
the adverts/trailers did show a lot of the funny moments so as they
were coming on screen you find yourself thinking & leading in to it.

Partridge has always been brilliant with the one liners and to show so
many of them during the trailers was pretty bad form.

Saying that though, it was still great. Great to see Lynn & Micheal
again, although there was not much of Micheal in the movie his scenes
were still pretty funny.

I went to see it on its first day out in Ireland and so far there's no
reviews of the title on IMDb, so im wondering where the low score has
come from.

It currently stands at 7.2..... and the visual diarrhea of "This is the
End" stands at 7.8... So clearly there is something wrong with the
system if any Alan Partridge product rates lower than something written
By Seth rogen.

But then again.... that will always be the problem with Alan. It is and
he is too intelligent for the masses.

Steve Coogan and Colm Meany played their roles very well, and all in
all it was a delight to watch.

Text-book! Back of the net.
<|_=00=_|>
I am huge Alan Partridge fan but despite this, I went into this film
with slight trepidation as I don't think I can remember a TV-Film
comedy transition that ever managed to really capture the magic of the
TV version.

Alas it is the same story again here.

For me, the series of Alan Partridge where he lives in the motel, is
one of the greatest comedy series of all time (C*** P*** Partridge),
and the follow up series with him living in the caravan is every bit
it's equal (Dan!!?). The recent radio shorts are also pretty good.

However, the magic of Alan is missed just slightly in the movie. As is
always the case with these crossovers, the cinema transition seems to
demand a higher pacing of the comedy along with the more bombastic
production generally, and this doesn't really sit well with Alan. You
need to be able to watch his every facial expression, and capture every
word of his dialogue and just take in the hilarity of his view of the
world. Likewise, his supporting characters have all been unique in
their own ways, but in this big screen version they have been almost
caricatured and stripped of any real wit or supporting merit. Michael
is particularly disappointing in this regard but Lynn's involvement is
also slightly... pointless and over-the-top when she is used.

I found the whole cinema experience a little bit tiresome and that's
the first time I've ever said that about anything with Alan Partridge
in it. This is a decent film, and fans will find lots to titter at, but
I would be surprised if there is anything truly memorable when we look
back in a few months time. Even after first watch, there isn't a phrase
I can pick out that will stick in my mind, and that's the really
disappointing thing.

The three-quarters full audience of my cinema in SW London seemed to
enjoy it but there were no extended belly laughs - just murmurs of
laughter spotted throughout, and one almost sensed that we were all
collectively colluding in really wanting this film to be better than it
actually was by lending our laughs. I'll give it another try on the
small screen and perhaps my mind will change but until then, and after
first watch, this is a slightly disappointing 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this with some friends on the day it came out. As a
Partridge fan you will not be disappointed. The film contains all the
best characters from the TV Series and Steve Coogan's brilliance as
Alan just made the film so funny. There are constant one liners, looks,
expressions, silly voices almost every minute. Everyone in the cinema
was laughing out loud throughout the full 90 minutes.

There is also a great sound track and lots of familiar tunes and the
scene during the credits will have you laughing throughout.

Excellent film go and see it even if you are not a Alan Partridge/Steve
Coogan fan because it is a generally funny film.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought that this wasn't going to be as funny as the TV series as
film adaptations never are.

To be frank (i'm not named Frank BTW) - it was hilarious. Cinema was
packed at the 21:30 showing (full of men with a few women that had been
dragged along - i bet they actually loved it really) and everyone was
laughing out loud and tittering every couple of minutes.

The plot worked - initially i thought it wouldn't be able to maintain
itself for the films length but it was like an awesomely long episode
of Alan. Alan's character actually has enough weight for several films
and more interesting formats i think. Alan Partridge the Musical - i
would go and see - and i hate musicals.

True brilliance and genius from those who know Alan's mind inside out. 

Long live King Alan. The quality shines through - far better than
Gervais et al.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been numerous movie versions of popular British TV series
over the years. And the results have by and large not been good. Most
of the time, they seem to go on holiday. At the very least, they always
make the story 'more cinematic'. They involve the sitcom characters in
a larger than life story. Or they go to Spain. I've never understood
the logic of this approach, as the sitcoms are popular in the first
place for being about a particular small-scale situation. Once the
characters are transported out of this, a crucial part of what makes
them work in the first place is lost. I can't help but think that
film-makers continually mis-read the public on this point. What we want
in a film version of a loved TV show is more of the same but for 90
minutes as opposed to 30. This leads on to Alan Partridge.

'I'm Alan Partridge' was in my opinion one of the funniest TV series
ever devised. In particular the first season was comedy gold from start
to finish. So, what of the movie version? On the whole it was pretty
funny but it did feel the need to incorporate a 'big story' into the
narrative. Again, this makes no real sense, seeing as Alan himself is
so very amusing because he is a mediocre TV presenter who lives in a
realistic world. The humour comes out of the fact that his situations
are believable and mundane. In this film the writers have felt the need
to involve him at the centre of an armed siege and he gets involved in
life or death situations. In a similar way to the 'Are You Being
Served?' team going to the Costa del Sol for a group holiday, this
story is not true to the character and doesn't really play to his
strengths. The storyline is overall a little lame and it awkwardly fits
in important characters from the series like Michael and Lynn  both of
whom aren't very well used. Partridge himself is funny  very funny at
times  but even he isn't really on top form, simply because the
writing isn't as good as the TV series. Steve Coogan is always worth
watching though and anything with Partridge is as well so the movie is
worth seeing if you are a fan of either. It's still a good enough
comedy but just pales a bit considering the quality of the TV show and
the unnecessarily unPartridge-like story-line. So, overall it's pretty
funny but like all cinematic versions of British TV series, a little
frustrating overall; although in fairness, it's one of the better
attempts but probably only due to the genius of the Partridge
character.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first discovered the premise of Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa,
which is a siege of the North Norfolk Digital building by a disgruntled
former employee, I was concerned that, like many big screen
adaptations, Alan Partridge was departing from its humble,
unspectacular roots.

By half way into the film, my concerns had unfortunately been
confirmed. There are gun shots, fire-extinguishers to the face,
explosions, armed policeman; it is by no means an action film, but
since when was there such commotion in Alan's life? 

It was the desperate loneliness, alienation and banality of Alan's life
in the original TV series that made audiences laugh and cringe while
pitying and sometimes despising the pathetic central character. When I
got home completely deflated after watching Alpha Papa, I reminded
myself of just how good Alan could be by watching YouTube clips of the
1997 series.

A single five minute scene of Alan attending a funeral captured the
essence of the character. The dialogue is so rich, almost every line
provided a laugh and I was cringing at Alan's complete and utter social
ineptitude. Throughout the series you learn Alan's behaviour, it
doesn't take one long to know when Alan has an agenda; he is so
self-centred, immature and incredibly tactless that the viewer can read
him like a book. It's both amusing and toe-curlingly embarrassing to
see Alan converse with people and deal with his many problems.

All of the subtlety and character study is missing in the film. Alan is
no longer a sad-man, a complete liability. He's still cringe-worthy,
particularly in scenes where he attempts to court a colleague, but none
of the gags even scrape the surface of the programme's brilliance.

The gags are really quite tired. They're predictable and rehashed,
particularly scenes that initially appear melodramatic but are then
abruptly interrupted by an action or one-liner like a needle scratching
across vinyl. There's also a genre-aware armed stand-off scene towards
the end where the characters have 'humourous', flippant exchanges
despite the immediate danger in an 'In Bruges' fashion, only not funny.
More than once I found myself sighing with disappointment and
embarrassment at just how off-the-mark and rehashed the comedy was.

Just like the film's premise, Coogan's performance is overblown, he
needed to reel himself in. There would be flashes of classic Partridge,
but generally both the dialogue and slapstick comedy just died. I
commend Coogan's skill for miming perfectly to Roachford's 'Cuddly
Toy', however it just wasn't as funny as his air bass performance of
Gary Numan's 'Music for Chameleons' in the second series. Also, Alan
doesn't look right in the film. His appearance is still demonstrably
uncool, however he isn't as awfully square and repellent as he was in
the series. If anything, Alan's ageing process seems to be in reverse. 

The two principal characters of the programme, Lynn, Alan's devoted and
criminally underpaid secretary, and Michael, Alan's good natured
friend, seldom appear in the film. These characters were crucial in the
series as they revealed many facets of Alan's personality, exposing
just how self-absorbed and manipulative he is whilst also showing how
utterly dependent he is on their attention.

We have the original team of Coogan and Iannucci, however it lacks
almost every element that made the series so funny, eminently quotable
and re-watchable. It shares very little in common with its televisual
sibling, all Alpha Papa has is a caricature of a caricature and a thin,
boring siege plot.

50%

www.hawkensian.com
<|_=00=_|>
Im a big Partridge fan, but i went into this ready to be disappointed.
So i got up early, went to an 11:30 showing in a town an hours travel
away and sat in a cinema that was basically empty.

I did not stop laughing once. I was literally tittering every time Alan
so much as breathed (through his nose). The plot was a little
underwhelming, the antagonist wasn't very antagonising, and really, the
only funny character was Alan. In the series, i always thought the
supporting cast were quite funny, especially Michael, but in this
adaption, Alan was the only one getting laughs.

But, this film is definitely a solid 8 for me. I'd watch this along
with the rest of the series.

Title is still rubbish though.
