
Had I taken to heart what the movie reviewer in my local paper had
written about this film (and his 2.5 star rating) -- I would not have
gone. Fortunately, I checked out IMDb and read that someone had
compared it to Jean Cocteau's avant-garde "La Belle et La Bete." Enough
said. That commendation, and armed, as I was, with the knowledge that
Nicole Kidman has done some exceptional films in recent years
(particularly "The Hours," "The Others," and one of my all-time
favourite psychological thrillers, "Dead Calm"), I was off to the local
art film theatre to join the sparse (perhaps a dozen?) audience of
viewers. 

In short, this film has set the bar extremely high re: all other films
I will see in 2007. One finds not only the influence of Cocteau in the
film, but also of Kubrick, Hitchcock, and even of Maya Deren. (ie:
there is a stunning image of Kidman/Arbus crawling out of the sea -- a
few moments of sheer poetry -- that are reminiscent of Deren's "At
Land.") (Also, perhaps a little Jane Campion with the underwater shots
near the end.) 

This is a decidedly painterly film, with everything from Arbus's
dresses to the evocative interiors of Lionel's museum/carnival-like
apartment and the film's textures worthy of commentary in both film
classes and post-film chats with friends. Contrasts are integral to
this film. The paint-peeled walls provide an interesting contrast with
the elegant satins and aristocratic dining accoutrement (tea pot, cup),
and parallel Lionel's declining health. Arbus's smooth skin vs.
Lionel's fur. The staged symmetry of Arbus's husband's white-washed,
commercial photography vs. the brilliant chaos in Lionel's apartment.
Arbus's wealthy, "proper" parents vs. Lionel's menagerie of "freaks".
Many of the shots are framed in interesting, geometrical or
architectural ways, or echo camera apertures. The use of the colour
blue in some scenes is breathtaking. 

Great line -- (not verbatim): Allan Arbus -- "I'm a normal guy, now I
have a hole in my ceiling and freaks coming through it." 

I also felt the chemistry between the principal characters (a rarity),
and believe the pacing greatly attributed to the overall success of the
film. The framing -- with the nudist camp -- underscored the
change/growth in the protagonist. 

As my 20 year old daughter said upon leaving the theatre -- "This is
the kind of film that really makes you want to live the life you were
meant to." Here here. "Fur" gets five big, bold, blazing stars. It is,
quite simply, brilliant. Please, tell your friends.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Fur this afternoon. I went to the 1:30 pm matinée and we were
only three in the theater. That's OK I felt like it was a private
showing. From the very start of the making this film, the whole story
got my attention, more than any other. It wasn't simply an opportunity
to see Robert work  it was my kind of film. I love the unusual, the
weird, the unique and all of these elements were in this film. When
Lionel tells Diane that he's "been waiting for a real freak" I knew
just what he meant. Diane has been forbidding her own self to be true
and she suffers from it. Lionel is her liberator, it's a love story of
the most spiritual kind since "there are only two sins; the first is
to interfere with the growth of another human being, and the second is
to interfere with one's own growth." I thought the chemistry between
Nicole and Robert was right on, both of them being seekers of truth. If
you believe that the eyes are windows to your soul then you will be
unable to take your eyes off the screen. Their journey is in their eyes
 you see in them the curiosity, the fascination, the fear, the pain,
the joy, the love and finally the liberation of their souls. When the
photograph is finally taken, Robert has your heart in his hands. If any
of you have gone through that "soul transformation" experience, you
will recognize it. If not, it's still a great fairy tale.

I love the sets, the music and the photography because they served the
story so well. And all I have to say about the love scene is Oh. My.
God. This is a film I want to see again, and again.

As for the mix reviews, maybe, just maybe, if they had not used Diane
Arbus' name, the critics would have been kinder and they would have
been willing to have more of an open mind. The writer and director used
Arbus' claim to fame to explore the spark, the birth if you will of
creativity. In any case, those who got it loved it and those who did
not get it, smothered it. I guess I don't have to tell you I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
In order to enjoy 'Fur - An imaginary portrait of Diane Arbus,' Stephen
Shainberg needs the viewer to suspend all reality and prior knowledge
of the American photographer, Diane Arbus. Paradoxically, it's the very
use of Diane Arbus' name and knowledge to her life and work, that sets
this film up to fail on a grand scale.

What becomes apparent quite early on with the casting of the beautiful
WASPish and glamorous Nicole Kidman as the anti-glamorous Jewish Diane
Arbus, is that Shainberg didn't get Arbus or what her work was about
(unsentimental realism) and seems only attracted to Arbus on a
superficial level through her photographs of circus freaks.

What follows is a kind of pretty and trivial Beauty & the Beast fantasy
biopic with Robert Downey JR as Kidman's hairy fictional love interest.
However, it's not the banality of the story that is the main flaw in
this film, but the director's misogynistic stance that Diane Arbus, one
of the art world's most singular and original woman photographers, was
incapable of forming her own ideas about her work. While his previous
film 'Secretary' was a study of female masochism, his continued
portrayal of the female as submissive spoils this film completely - and
flys in the face of the real life Diane Arbus' courage, tenacity and
fearlessness in single-handedly exploring the often shady world of
outsiders.

Imagine an imaginary biopic on pop star Madonna's life with Guy Richie
as her Svengali, the man behind her career, and you'll get a feel of
how seriously flawed and imaginary this film is: It can only work if
you have absolutely no knowledge of the subject, or just choose to
ignore all the facts.

It's a shame because once you remove all reference to Diane Arbus, this
film could have stood up on its own as an interesting study on
fetishism and a good companion piece to Secretary. 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I found this to be an incredibly interesting film with fine
performances all round, and beautiful cinematography, art direction and
a lovely score amongst other things. Kidman is very convincing though
she does seem to be 'acting for an Oscar' at many points through out
the film. When I saw the film I did not know very much about the
photographer Diane Arbus, those disappointed that the film is not more
of a biopic shouldn't be because the film creates such an intriguing
portrait of the photographer that I for one was compelled to learn more
about the artist. This is definitely a film to see in the cinema rather
than one to watch on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Any instance in which a filmmaker attempts to blend ideas of fact with
fiction - especially when that particular fact is fairly well known and
tied to an iconic historical figure - they're going to have problems in
maintaining a connection with certain factions of their audience. Just
look at some previous examples of this same stylistic device in other
films; such as Dreamchild (1985) for instance, in which an elderly
Alice Liddell reflects on her time spent with Lewis Carroll and his
obsessive compulsion to nail her character to the very pages of his
most celebrated work. Even more polarising was David Cronenberg's
adaptation of the cult novel Naked Lunch (1991), in which elements of
the author's life and works were blended together to create a
torturous, darkly-comic and highly homo-erotic trek through the damaged
psychological territory of a Burroughs-like bug exterminator. A similar
approach was also used by director Steven Sodebergh and screenwriter
Lem Dobbs with their coolly expressionistic merging of the fantastical
and horrific writings of Kafka (1991), with the more mundane,
everyday-like tedium of his real life and work.

Fur (2006), which makes its intentions clear with the subtitle "an
imaginary portrait of Diane Arbus", takes on a similar approach to the
films aforementioned; blending elements of personal fact and actual
biographical detail with a story that is pure, fairy tale fabrication.
Having watched the film just a few days ago, I browsed the Internet for
previous reviews to get a sense of how other audiences had approached
it. In doing so, I was quite shocked and surprised to see just how
violently some viewers had reacted to the film; citing everything from
the liberal approach of the film's script, the central performance from
Nicole Kidman, and the fundamental message that seems implied by the
film's very tender sense of emotional drama as reasons why this film
was worthless or simply not good. This surprised me for two reasons,
firstly; that these intelligent and well-versed viewers were unable to
separate the elements of fact surrounding the real life Diane Arbus and
her extraordinary body of work from the quite clearly fabricated
depiction of grotesque beauty that the filmmakers create through the
imagined relationship between our caricature of Diane and a character
named Lionel; a mysterious former carnival performer. Secondly, it
surprised me that these viewers felt that Arbus's life would be better
served by a routine, by the books Hollywood biopic in which all the
facts and back stories are simplified, and we end up with a very simple
film about the triumph of the little guy against all odds.

Do people really want bland, cookie-cutter, connect the dots cinema; a
struggle over adversary and all the usual nonsense that comes with
those A-Z, biographical features, such as Walk the Line (2005) and Ray
(2004)? Sadly, it would appear so. What happened to audiences craving
imaginative, free-thinking cinema? Something that attempts to
deconstruct a greater truth in an intelligent, imaginative and
emotionally captivating way that is genuinely suited to the visual,
metaphorical capabilities that cinema presents. For me, everything you
would need to know about Arbus is here and everything you would need to
know about her art is divulged in a number of interesting, highly
imaginative visual quirks. You just have to scratch beneath the
surface. Read between the lines and you'll see with this film the very
psychological impulse and motivation to create something beautiful from
the seemingly mundane; to capture that all too fleeting moment and
preserve it on film forever. Fur, for me, took us inside the
psychological world of Arbus, with none of the black and white
moralising or textbook type tedium that often plagues this particular
genre; but instead, showing us some of the potential ideas and imagined
situations that came to instill her work with such a grotesque sense of
beauty.

It has a long been said; "every picture tells a story". That's what
this film is about. Anyone can read a book about the real life Arbus;
but how on earth is that enriching the cinematic medium? I personally
don't look to cinema to find something that is readily available to me
at my local library. This film takes us inside Arbus' world and gives
us a beautifully told and imaginative back-story that blends elements
of real-life fact with references to Gothic literature, fairy stories,
history and the subjective power of the art itself. The creative spirit
of this film is exactly in tune with Arbus's creative vision. To give
us something like the Rocky (1976) of photographer-themed biographical
pictures would, to my mind at least, have been a much greater insult to
the unique and continually captivating universe that this particular
artist created through her work. You may disagree with the approach, or
fail to see the appeal of the story, but for me, Fur is the kind of
film that I feel I could go back to again and again and still find a
number of things worth raving about.

Like one of Arbus's iconic pictures, Fur presents us with something
seemingly drab, seemingly bizarre, and allows us to take the time to
see the inherent beauty behind it. Like the work of Diane Arbus itself,
you can choose to see it as something unfeeling or exploitative, or
alternatively, you can see it as a gateway into understanding the
enormous amount of empathy that Arbus had for her bizarre and often
extraordinary subjects. The direction manages to create a mood and an
ambiance that is halfway between the aforementioned William S.
Burroughs and the antiseptic 50's Americana of The Bell Jar, with the
otherworldly danger and mystique of a film like Pan's Labyrinth (2006).
Alongside these stylistic elements we also have continual references to
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and the notion of Beauty and the
Beast, and all tied together by the fine performances from Kidman as
the shackled, stifled Arbus and Robert Downey Jr. as the mysterious and
sympathetic Lionel.
<|_=00=_|>
'Fur: An Imaginary Portrait of Diane Arbus' is itself like a beautiful
painting. Starting from the photographic visuals, the artistic
execution, the use of symbolism and metaphors, the superb camera-work,
the incredible performances and stunning art direction, this is one
film that is a poetic treat for the viewer. The background score gives
voice to the unsaid feelings. Not only is it dazzling to look at, it's
thought provoking and a fulfilling cinematic experience.

I loved the use of symbolism and metaphors. Some examples include: The
association between the scene where Diane disrobing in the final
sequence and the earlier scenes where she dresses up to her neck as
part of social etiquette. Then there's the strong contrast between a
furry Lionel and the high-classed women who were obsessed with fur and
another interesting contrast between Lionel's dark fur and Diane's
smooth translucent skin. There are numerous such intriguing symbolism
that beautifully stand out. The references to classics like 'Alice in
Wonderland' and 'Beauty and the Best' and influences of Hitchcock and
Kubrick are obvious and brilliantly used. The visuals too represent a
strong ideas. They are not just there for mere beauty. The colour blue
plays a key role on multiple levels.

Shainberg's direction is awesome but what I liked most was the way
Diane felt more 'at home' with the people who were termed 'freaks'
rather than her own family or her husband's social circle. Nicole
Kidman is magnificent. Robert Downey Jr. too gives an equally subtle
and heartbreaking performance. The two share a very passion-filled
chemistry which only stresses on the fascination and attraction that
draws Diane and Lionel towards each other. Their quiet love story
speaks volumes about their internal desires and strong feelings for one
another. I've mostly seen Ty Burrell in comedies like 'Out of Practice'
and 'Back To You' but here he shows that he can pull off serious roles
as well.

Not only is 'Fur: An Imaginary Portrait of Diane Arbus' a plot driven
film, it can be watched as a character piece, a mood piece, a love
story and a period piece. A film that can be appreciated on so many
levels, I fail to understand why it gained so little recognition.
<|_=00=_|>
Defying biopic clichés and overlapping reality and fantasy - so that
the viewer eventually hardly understands what's real and what's not -
"Fur" is definitely a provocative movie, not only another version of
"The Beauty and the Beast". The odd subject is handled with impeccable
effects and a stunning acting, the obvious question is asked by a HUGE
metaphor - what's better between a man covered with fur and snobbish
people wearing fur? Truly intriguing the film has some stasis moments
that prevent it from being excellent, nevertheless it's about an
interesting story, certainly worth viewing. Plus it gives a singular
and also metaphorical finale showing Kidman removing her clothing along
with her "social vestment".
<|_=00=_|>
Being lucky enough to have a free pass for the press this morning I
attended the press screening of this film at the Roma Film Festival,
which opened today. I would like to share some thoughts. First of all,
this is far from being a biographical account of the photographer Diane
Arbus. The film, with shows not a single of her works, just covers the
few key months in which Arbus discovered to be an artist, leaving her
well-to-do environment. One day ante litteram desperate housewife
Arbus, married with the mild mannered advertising photographer Allan,
looking outside the window sees Lionel, their new neighbour: this is
the beginning of the most unusual of love stories, around which the
whole film revolves. Lionel, which is an entirely fictional character,
suffers from ipertrichosis, a pathological condition which makes his
body and his face completely covered with hair. Lionel helps Arbus to
discover herself and introduce her to the world of the freaks, like
himself is, which would be the subject of most of her work. The title
of the film states it is an imaginary portrait of the artist. It's more
like a wild fantasy loosely inspired to her figure. Kidman's
performance is good, but not mind-blowing. Robert Downey Jr.'s is more
interesting: with his face completely covered with hair he manage to
create a rather intriguing character, acting just with his eyes and his
beautiful voice. I must say that after the screening the press audience
was pretty harsh with the film. It's not really a BAD movie, one can
say that in its way it has also a kind of weird charm. Steven
Shainberg's direction is creative and interesting. Still, the film has
many very weak points. There are really A LOT of unintentionally funny
things, first of all the striking resemblance between Robert Downey
Jr.'s character and Star Wars hairy fellow Chewbacca. Two or there
meant to be serious lines made the audience (and me) laugh out loud. A
few scenes were nearly ridiculous. If you are a fan of Kidman or Downey
Jr. you can give a chance to this film: don't expect a serious work
about Diane Arbus, but rather a very strange dream, and maybe you'll
enjoy it. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
For anyone who cares to know something about the real Diane Arbus, or
who values psychological veracity, this film is abysmal. Arbus was a
brilliant, talented, restless, and troubled person, but this film
depicts her as completely self-involved, and truly bizarre in her taste
and judgment. Kidman portrays her as wan and vague, whereas she was
someone who knocked people over with her charisma. The totally
fictional relationship that is central to the film is quite
unbelievable, and Robert Downey is truly annoying in his smirking
portrayal of someone who seems to think he's superior to the rest of
the world simply because of his affliction. The film depicts this
encounter as being the source of Arbus's interest in "freaks," which is
a truly banal explanation for the inspiration behind some of the
greatest photographs of the 20th century. The mystery to me is why
people of some talent and intelligence chose to be involved with this
film in any way.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally, I had never heard of Diane Arbus before this movie. I
wanted to see this because of Robert Downey Jr. I was hoping he would
make a movie with Nicole Kidman, & neither of them disappoint. This is
an interesting film. Kidman has the title role of Arbus, a woman
looking for more than typical convention of 1958. She loves her husband
and children, but is drawn to Lionel (Downey), a man with a condition
that covers him completely in hair. As the two spend more time
together, she pulls away from her family & falls in love with Lionel.

Robert Downey Jr is one of my favorite actors. His portrayal of Lionel
is amazing. He makes him seductive, mysterious, sympathetic & lovable
all at once. Although I did not like that he is pursuing a married
woman, Downey makes you cheer when they finally consummate their love.
He can tell a story with just his eyes and considering Lionel's
condition, that is a must. He does an amazing job, both with verbal &
non-verbal emotion. Downey really is one of the greatest actors of our
generation.

Ty Burrell is another strong performance as Diane's husband Allan. You
can feel his pain as he sees his wife pull away from him and their
children. It is interesting to note that at the beginning of the film
Allan is clean-shaven. After meeting Lionel, he grows a beard. Then in
his last scene he is clean-shaven again. I hope we see more of Burrell.
He earned his stripes in this film.

Kidman of course does not disappoint. Her portrayal of Arbus makes you
completely understand her desire for more. She is perfect for the role.
You cry with her, laugh with her, and cheer for her. Perfect.

An interesting love story and a great way to learn about Diane Arbus,
this film kept me interested the whole way. Be sure to look for the
Alice In Wonderland references--a tribute to Arbus herself. This movie
is definitely a must-see.
