
I really liked this one. I wasn't expecting much, being worn out on
spoof movies lately because of the layer of crap that's been dropped on
us, the movie-going public. "Epic Movie","Date Movie","Meet the
Spartans" all sucked.

That being said, the people who made this, made the latter-day Zucker-
styled comedies(a la Airplane, The Naked Gun) Scary Movie 3 & 4, and
not those other "Movie" movies (which are the domain of Jason Friedberg
& Aaron Seltzer).

There were parts of this movie where I laughed so hard I could barely
breathe. And that happens SO rarely with comedies lately. Seriously, I
laughed hard.

But, it was one of those things that will entertain but never be a
classic you'd bother watching again. It was a bit forgettable in that
way.
<|_=00=_|>
This is way better than most films that spoof other films. It's a
million times better than the likes of Epic Movie, Disaster Movie and
many other pathetic attempts to parody other films. Unlike most films
that spoof others this one gets the job done without overdoing it and
at times it even felt like an actual Superhero film as well as talented
cast members that fit their roles perfectly and the villain "The
Hourglass" was good considering it was a parody film. It also has
various comedy elements of its own such as Lucille's funeral and many
more moments that I would mention but I don't want to spoil the film.
At the funeral The priest says "We are gathered here today to say
goodbye to Lucille" then all the people at the funeral shout
"Goodbye!".If you plan to watch this film do not judge it on the low
rating. It's a pity most parody films weren't as good as this.
<|_=00=_|>
If "Superhero Movie" gives you the same giddy, guilty-pleasure feeling
as "Airplane!" and the "Naked Gun" movies, it's no accident. Some of
those movies' personnel  who were also involved in two lesser "Scary
Movie" sequels  show up here. (Those include writer-director Craig
Mazin, who happily has come a long way from 1997's abysmal
"Rocketman.")

The movie's title says it all. It's a comedy that takes a well-known
hit (in this case, "Spider-Man"), turns it inside out, and uses it as a
clothesline for gags. In this parody version, nerdy Rick Riker (amiable
Drake Bell of cable-TV's "Drake and Josh") gets bitten by a mutant
dragonfly, turning him into...well, take a guess. Meanwhile, a
well-meaning scientist (Chris McDonald) turns nasty when his experiment
backfires and he finds he must sap others' life-blood in order to keep
himself alive.

As is typical of such parodies, the movie's approach is as subtle as a
spitball gun. Some of the gags are terrific, and some are groaners. But
they're all fired at such a rapid pace that after a while, you have no
choice but to give in to the silliness. The characters are like
shooting-gallery ducks waiting to have parody lobbied at them. Best of
the bunch are Rick's well-meaning but dotty uncle and aunt
(delightfully played by Leslie Nielsen and "Happy Days'" Marion Ross).
The most pitiable is a take-off on disabled genius Stephen Hawking, who
seems to push Mazin's bad-taste button over and over ad nauseum.

This leads me to the movie's most required caveat. While the flick is
mostly silly fun, it pushes its "PG-13" rating right up to the edge of
the "R" cliff. The movie is larded with sexual gags and profanity
abound, and what might possibly be cinema's longest-ever flatulence
gag.

But if you can bear up under the cringe factor, "Superhero Movie" is
mostly high-powered fun. Nifty comedy here runs neck-and-neck with bad
taste. It's a close race, but the comedy wins.

"Superhero Movie" is rated PG-13 for countless sex and drug references,
crude humor, and adult language.
<|_=00=_|>
So I went to the Superhero Movie yesterday and I wasn't sure if it was
going to be any good because most of the reviews and ratings on here
were very poor and normally these types of movies aren't very good at
all. So anyway I went in there with doubts but in the first 20 seconds
I was cracking up even just with the start where there is just saying
who's in the film. From that point on to the very end I had never
laughed so hard in my entire life. This movie was absolutely fantastic
and I would see it over and over again. There are jokes every 30
seconds! I highly recommend everybody to see this fantastic movie, you
won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
With all these bad Spoof movies like Date movie, Not Another Teen
Movie,Epic Movie and Disaster Movie (which is the worst spoof movie
ever).

So i was thinking will be the same, but my god this movie made me laugh
so much, This movie better then others listed above better then Scary
movie 4 and 2 

Plot: In this spoof of Hollywood blockbusters, director and
screenwriter Craig Mazin (THE SPECIALS) tackles the age-old story of a
regular guy who suddenly finds that he possesses super powers. Ricky
Riker (Drake Bell) is a typical teenager, except that his luck is worse
then most. Basically, he's a loser. He's been in love with beautiful
Jill (Sara Paxton) for years, but is sure she doesn't know he exists.
Even his best friend, Trey (Kevin Hart), is willing to throw him over
for another clique. But Rick's life changes dramatically when a
genetically enhanced dragonfly bites him during a school field trip. In
a flash, he becomes the Dragonfly. He can scale buildings, and has
immense strength--though he's still a klutz. Rick isn't sure he has
what it takes to be a superhero, but it's up to him to save the city
from the villainous Hourglass (Christopher McDonald), who literally
sucks the life out of people, and threatens to harm those dearest to
Rick. Mazin, The main spoof is spider man they also spoof Batman, the
Fantastic Four, and the X-Men.

I love this movie so, well the last spoof movie I Saw was Disaster
movie that oh my god, that movie was SO bad ) (That one the reason like
this movie more then I Should) The superhero movie is one best spoof to
come out last year, I am not saying it the best spoof EVER! Love it
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The "movie" movie series was really going for a while there (All the
Scary Movies had me in stitches) it bombed for a while when Adam Seltz
and Jason Friedburg took over and here is a brief show is a list of
ratings of some of the other "movie" movies: Date Movie: 57% Epic
Movie: 50% Meet The Spartans: 48% But with this one the series gets
better with Superhero films being sent up in a playful way and it is
actually really funny. It is a little hit and miss but I think that
adds to the final feel to the "dumbness" to the film. I think that this
is worth a view for the fans of Scary Movie and haters of the later
"movie" movies. Overall this is a good and funny film good for a laugh
once or twice and I give it a fair rating of 65%.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Superhero Movie feels like you're re-watching one of the Naked
Gun movies, only there are "deleted scenes" which unfortunately feature
pop culture references and fart jokes. It's a fun movie if you're into
the genre but overall falls far too short of being as good as the
classics.

The cast is great for the material they're working with, with some
exceptions being those who are given too little screen time to show
their talents. Musician/actor Drake Bell's comedic timing is
impressive, as is that of spoof legend Leslie Nielsen.

The humor, a combination of slapstick, wordplay and sex/toilet humor,
is hit and miss, but hits more often than one would think. The spoofs
range from clever to cringe-worthy, but the story and resultant gags
follow the source material (mostly 2002's Spider-Man) very well, as
opposed to the "Hey, look! It's -insert character- from -insert popular
movie-!" style other recent spoofs have adopted. The only roadblocks
are the childish fart jokes (one of which spans minutes) and dated pop
culture references (Tom Cruise? Barry Bonds? Really?).

It's due to all of this that the movie, although flawed, can appeal to
fans of any kind of spoof movie, be it twenty years old or two. It's
also able to fulfill the expectations of the average moviegoer while
giving some clever surprises to those who don't see them coming. Simply
put, if you're a fan of any type of comedy, there's bound to be
something in this joke-a-second spoof for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the scary movie films and read reviews on here, I was quite
dubious about how good Superhero Movie was going to be. But I was
persuaded by free tickets to a UK preview.

I'm happy to say that I was astounded by the quality of the film. The
jokes and acting quality are a real step up for the series. Leslie
Nielsen consistently caused the audience to collapse in laughter.
Meanwhile newcomers Drake Bell and Sara Paxton shine as the naive Peter
Parker-type character and his love interest.

If only the originals of these movies were as good as this witty
parody. Can't wait to see a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
OK...the trailer gave me hope, the original trailer that is, that this
movie would finally bring back those awesome jokes and gags from the
great Airplane! and Naked Gun films, and it did, of course not as
efficiently. This is a great great great start for all of us who want
to see the great spoof movies make a comeback. There were some gags
that went a little over the top, not to my surprise, but there were
other gags that brought back memories of those classic movies. There
was not so much pop culture as the other vomit-enducing movies like
Meet the Spartans and other atrocities, but of course there was, but we
cant blame them, there was pop culture references back in the Airplane
movies as well. It put a smile on my face when i heard a good phrase in
this movie: "Fruitcake?" "Oh no, i just haven't met the right woman".
You have to be honest, that definitely brings back some hope that the
producers are trying to bring it back. I say give it a try, I own all
the great spoofs on DVD, i know my spoof movies, and i can guarantee
that this movie is not as bad as others may say it is, and it totally
makes Meet the Spartans and Epic movie look the garbage they are.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I've been reading the reviews on this film for quite a while now,
and I've got to say: why is everyone complaining about it? To be
perfectly honest, I saw this film because my best friend rented it, so
I hadn't had a chance of reading any of the reviews online. If it had
been the other way around, I probably wouldn't have seen it, and that
would have been just a darn shame. So what if some of the situations
are a little extreme? So what if it all seems a little "Oh, come on!" -
that's what this type of comedy is all about! I had a good laugh
watching this, and I strongly suggest this for a friend night...but
definitely not the movie I'd see on a family night.
