
Antman. When I first heard about the plans for this movie I laughed to
myself and thought, "How can becoming smaller be cool?" Sure enough,
Marvel has surpassed my expectations and turned something I thought
would be lame and uninteresting into something hilarious and actually
pretty cool. I'm not going to include any spoilers, but I will say the
fighting style of Antman is much better than I thought it would be. I
learned a lot about the story as well as the abilities he has. 

Antman gets much more interesting when doing combat. The ability to
shrink and grow at will is something Marvel has gotten very creative
with. 

The language in this film is good enough for my young children to
watch. There are no F or GD bombs to ruin the mood and the moment with
the family. I'd say I'd surely watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
AntMan is a lesser know character of marvels but by no means does that
effect the quality of this movie. First off I thought that the casting
of this film wasn't going to work, that been Paul Rudd mainly, just
because I have read a few of the AntMan comics and didn't think it was
going to work, I was wrong he is brilliant, hilarious and believable,
all of the jokes he made actually made laugh out load which doesn't
happen much. Michael Pena was great in this film, he plays the same
kind of character he always seems too, but it really works, especially
the story telling scenes were hilarious. This was a all round well cast
film.

The action and CGI Was great, on first thoughts I thought when AntMan
shrinks down that the CGI would take you out of the movie but let me
tell you it doesn't, it's awesome! Especially seeing the world from
that size and scenes where AntMan is shrinking and enlarging when
fighting i thought would get a little too much but the honestly don't.

All around I AntMan felt different to all the other MCU movies that
have come out, but a good different.    A well cast,directed and acted
film that will be a welcome addition to my marvel collection.
<|_=00=_|>
Had it been too desperate and hopeless, ANT-MAN would have shrunk its
way for admission to the almost-complete, Avengers team. But neither
such concern nor saving the world from an impending catastrophic
destruction, holds weight heavy enough to pull this miniature superhero
from his top priority: winning back his daughter. The emotional weight
of the narrative comes across as an anomalous content to the generally
comedic structure of the film, but they serve purpose for the overall
flow of the proceedings, nonetheless.

The film follows Scott Lang (Paul Rudd), who has just been released
from prison after committing burglary. He has been prohibited to see
his daughter due to his inability to provide financial support, no
thanks to his being an ex-con that keeps hindering him from getting a
job. He meets the highly-intellectual yet solitary scientist, Hank Pym
(Michael Douglas), who has a job for him: pulling off a heist on his
ex-protégé, Darren Cross (Corey Stoll), who is in possession of a
size-changing prototype, that poses massive amount of threats to
worldwide security. Using a military suit that allows him to shrink
back and forth, in size, Lang carries on with the mission with the hope
that by doing so, he would be able to reclaim and earn the reputation
and respect he lost, especially his daughter's.

It's easier to see Ant-Man as a beautiful mess, rather than a
well-crafted superhero flick with profound depth and sense . There's a
lot of illogical nonsense that always nearly sends the film to
wreckage, but there's also so much of the fun side to make up for the
eventual narrative shortcoming. At the center of its comic efforts,
Paul Rudd's Scott Lang/Ant-Man shines with his general amiability,
pulling off his role with credible wit and comic allure. Rudd is such a
delight here, and his presence and effortless take on his character
make the mostly messed-up flow of the events, extremely palatable.
There's also much to say about Michael Douglas, how his character, Pym,
easily integrates well with Lang and his daughter, Hope (Evangeline
Lily) , to provide a firm and well-knitted character framework. Corey
Stoll, on the other hand, is less impressive, barely providing the
needed threat to make his presence felt and his belligerence imminent.
But on moments where he and Lang engage in beautifully-choreographed
fight scenes, the ineptitude gets relegated below the more important
aspects of the proceedings, and once it does, the breathtaking visual
schemes work under the spotlight, capturing Lang's size-changing skill
with epic elaborateness. There's magic in every size shift, and the
visual artistry is at its peak to deliver the moment.

Perhaps, one of the most immediately-noticeable difference of Ant-Man
from its Marvel fellows is that it doesn't engage, nor rush too much,
to explosive battles that generally results to immeasurable
destruction. It is noticeably evident on the fact that its most
interesting and most jaw-dropping action setpiece, happens in a toy
train set. Most importantly, this new addition to the Marvel Cinematic
Universe places its comic prowess at the center of its general effort
to validate its entry to the franchise, and that is achieved without
putting the natural action/adventure tendency of its superhero, nor the
inevitable emotional nature of its characters, at risk of getting
overshadowed by the rudimentary elements of the narrative.

It's actually hard to gauge ANT-MAN using the same measure that made
the rest of its pack, mammoth and omnipotently powerful. But in its own
right, and sub-atomic scale, this microscopic superhero is clearly a
power behemoth, and it will surely spring back to its even bigger form,
once the Avenger call is delivered.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is incredible. A ton of fun with brilliant action and
hilarious dialogue this is another fantastic win for Marvel. Paul Rudd
plays a likable and charismatic hero who really makes you root for him
and his goals. Michael Pena is the real heist of this film as he steals
every scene that he is in. Corey Stoll as the villain was a fantastic
choice from Marvel. He can play the corporate business man and an
intimidating villain. The visuals are stunning in this film. All of the
tiny ant scenes are visually outstanding and hilarious. The are two
post credit scenes which are fantastic and really tie into the larger
universe. Ant Man is a fantastic movie which is worth your money and I
suggest that you see it in cinemas.
<|_=00=_|>
For a few brief moments, the unstoppable juggernaut that is the Marvel
Cinematic Universe (MCU) looked like it was about to grind to a halt
with Ant-Man. Unlike most other films under the Marvel Studios
umbrella, this production has been haunted by doubt and dissension.
Fans were nervous about the narrative decisions to relegate Hank Pym 
the original Ant-Man in the comic books  to the sidelines, while
killing off his wife Janet Van Dyne (who, as the Wasp, is one of the
founding members of the Avengers). Then came that hugely publicised
parting of the ways between Marvel and original director Edgar Wright,
who oozes so much geek cred that people understandably mourned his
departure from the project after years of development. And yet, the
final product  Peyton Reed's Ant-Man  is a fun, frothy delight, one
that proves once and for all that Marvel knows precisely what it's
doing and where it's going with the most crazily interconnected
movie-and-television franchise of all time.

After serving his jail sentence, Scott Lang (Rudd) just wants to
reunite with his daughter Cassie and get his life back on track. But he
soon discovers that people in the outside world  including his ex-
wife Maggie (Greer) and her new cop boyfriend Paxton (Cannavale) 
aren't particularly kind to former convicts. Beaten down by
circumstances, he agrees to pull off one last heist with his eternally
optimistic buddy Luis (Pena). It's a crime that places him squarely in
the path of Dr. Hank Pym (Douglas), a retired, semi-reclusive scientist
who decides to enlist Scott in his life-long mission of preventing the
Pym Particle  a technological breakthrough that allows him to become
the super- small, super-strong Ant-Man  from falling into the wrong
hands.

Truth be told, Ant-Man gets off to a somewhat shaky start. The tale of
an honourable rogue who's looking for a shot at redemption is a
well-worn storytelling trope, one that the film initially seems to
embrace rather too eagerly. As we watch Scott soldier through a host of
tiny indignities, the dialogue  still credited to Wright and his
co-writer Joe Cornish, with rewrites by Rudd and Adam McKay  is
uninspired, and oftentimes uncomfortably on-the-nose. There's no
subtlety here, and the sense of fun that accompanies Scott's attempt to
hold down a job in Baskin Robbins feels a wee bit forced.

But the film kicks into higher gear, and stays there, once Scott
stumbles onto or, more accurately, steals his second chance. His
discovery of the Ant-Man suit and all that entails  working with Hank,
meeting Hank's aloof but eminently capable daughter Hope (Lilly),
training to prevent Hank's former protégé Darren Cross (Stoll) from
replicating the Pym Particle for sale to the highest bidder  give the
story the shot of adrenaline it needs. In the blink of an eye, this
superhero heist flick finds its feet, and transforms into a whirlwind
of action, humour and heart. Reed's camera zigs merrily from Luis'
unique method of exposition (brilliant) to Scott's attempts to survive
Hope's training (bruisingly hilarious), before zagging into the dark,
trembling heart of Hank's troubled relationship with his daughter.

Indeed, what makes Ant-Man work so well is its insistence on respecting
its characters and taking their concerns and relationships seriously.
This provides the film with an emotional anchor amidst all the madcap
chaos and gleeful irreverence. Scott's overpowering love for his young
daughter runs parallel to Hank's own concern for Hope, and even Paxton
 initially caricaturised as the stereotypical brutish new boyfriend 
is given layers and depth beyond what might be expected of a film that
seems so silly on the surface. This culminates in the film's best
action sequence: one that manages to be utterly ridiculous, as the
camera cheekily zooms in and out of a conflict that's entirely
proportional to the size of its participants; but also deeply
heartfelt, when Scott makes a split-second decision between life and
probable death. 

For anyone concerned about Ant-Man subsisting in its own little bubble
within the MCU, rest assured that there's plenty on display here to
please even the most die-hard of fans. The film features not only a
welcome cameo from a very popular agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., but also ties
Scott firmly into MCU continuity with a hugely pleasing direct
reference to Avengers: Age Of Ultron. The subsequent semi-aerial battle
that takes place between Ant-Man and a certain Avenger proves that this
miniscule hero has what it takes to stand proud alongside the world's
mightiest champions. (Stay through the credits, by the way, for two
incredibly exciting hints at what's to come for the MCU in the future.)

As with all the other films and television shows in Marvel's burgeoning
media empire, the cast of Ant-Man is pitch-perfect. Rudd puts his goofy
and amiably sexy charisma to excellent use as Scott, allowing us to
believe that this one man can be as silly as he is strong, and as
serious as he is funny. Lilly gets the big-screen role she richly
deserves in Hope, who's acknowledged at every point in the film as
being better, stronger, and more capable than the men around her think
she is. Douglas plays a far more palatable version of Dr. Pym (who can
be tough to swallow in the comics), and does so with his trademark
charm and magnetism, while Stoll gives good psychopath as the
increasingly unhinged, patently cruel Cross.

Ant-Man may not edge out the other films that make up Phase Two of the
MCU in a straw poll  it does, after all, face some pretty serious
competition in what has been an unbroken run of truly excellent
superhero films. But it's an incredibly solid effort: smart, rich, deep
and funny, teeming with ideas, genres and the potential for so much
more. Now if that doesn't make for a great superhero movie, what does?
<|_=00=_|>
Like many people, I came into the theater wondering how Marvel would
make the audience care about such a little-known character with
decidedly unimpressive powers. It turns out they used the opportunity
to make one of their best movies yet.

Ant-Man was not at all what I expected. I have been a fan of most of
the previous movies of the Marvel Cinematic universe, but you don't
have to be a fan of super hero movies to enjoy this movie. it has good
pacing and holds your interest throughout. There are plenty of action
and the fight scenes, but unlike the previous Marvel movies, this movie
focuses on a heist. This, along with the comedy throughout, makes it a
breath of fresh air in the Marvel universe. No Marvel movie since has
so seamlessly bonded the genre of action and comedy. 

The main character, Scott Lange, is not a billionaire or scientist or
ancient god, and he doesn't have super strength or intelligence; he is
a thief who deals with holding down a job and being able to see his
daughter. This makes him incredibly relatable. Being played by Paul
Rudd doesn't hurt either. Rudd, along with the rest of the cast,
delivers a memorable performance. The idea of a father trying to
reconcile his relationship with his daughter may have been used before,
but Evangeline Lilly and Michael Douglas make it work without seeming
trite or overused. The role that really stands out is Corey Stoll as
Yellowjacket. He is, in my opinion, the most terrifying villain the
Marvel universe has seen yet. He doesn't want global domination, he
wants money and power, and that makes him a very believable villain.
Stoll's performance is more three-dimensional than one might expect in
a super hero movie, and adds to the already great cast.

Perhaps the most impressive part of Ant-Man was the visual effects. I
saw this movie in IMAX 3D, and the quality was stunning. I don't like
most movies in 3D, but this one worked well. The shrinking and growing
looked very good as well as the action sequences. Although the action
happens on a small scale, it can stand up to any of the other movies
Marvel has made. 

If you haven't seen this film yet, I would highly recommend it. The
acting, directing, and cinematography all make this film highly
enjoyable, even if you haven't seen any of Marvel's previous films.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Avengers: Age of Ultron to the cinema, and it was not
that bad. Still, the first one keeps the first position. After that, i
knew that MCU's next movie was Ant-Man, a completely new hero. But i
wasn't so excited for that movie. And it was weird, because i always do
it when a new Marvel movie is about to come out. I thought it was going
to be just fine, even boring, 'cause that particularly hero didn't look
attractive. I was very wrong.

The movie is about Scott Lang, a thief who gets a second chance from
Dr. Hank Pym, the inventor of the Pym Particle, that makes a man reduce
his size and become stronger. What Pym needs Scott to do is to destroy
the Jellowjacket, a suit similar to Pym's suit (Ant-Man's suit),
created by Darren Cross. And it needs to be destroyed because Darren's
intension is to sell that suit to Hydra. 

The story is very simple, but it's entertaining enough to make us see
it to the end. I was afraid that Ant-Man would be full of comedy, like
Guardians of the Galaxy, that had so much that was tiresome. But this
film had jokes in the right moment, it was very well used.

To be honest, i was very surprised by Ant-Man. Paul Rudd makes a very
good performance as Scott. I think that the best part of the entire
film was the battle between Scott and Anthony Mackie's Falcon in the
Avenger's new base. An epic battle with a short appearance of a new
Avenger. I recommend this movie to any MCU's fan. Now we have to wait
for Captain America: Civil War, that promises to be awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this flick not expecting much. I'm not an Ant Man fan so I
was not waiting in anticipation for this as much as I wanted to see Age
of Ultron.

The character that Paul Rudd plays in this movie is not the Ant Man I
wanted to see, and Micheal Douglas' role as Hank Pym, the original Ant
man only made me want to see him dawn the suit even more, cause Micheal
Douglas was everything a superhero should be in this movie, Charming,
really good dialog, and ready for action. 

Overall, Ant Man surprised me. It was one of the more unique superhero
movies out. Ant Man did things far beyond just punching and kicking
that a lot of superheroes are doing on the big screen and went places
no other super hero could go making for an action packed adventure. As
cool as Ant Man was when he was regular size beating up the bad guys,
was as good as when he was shrunken, riding and controlling ants in a
world only he can go to.

The villain Darren Cross was actually pretty good too. Not as good as
Loki, but just as psycho. 

Once again, not an Ant Man fan but this movie is changing my mind. I'm
so impressed with what Paul Rudd did with the character. 

Not only that, but it's a great Marvel comic movie, in how it
intertwines with the whole Marvel cinematic Universe.

Definitely recommend seeing in 3D cause it's that type of movie that
deserves it.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so I will probably target the wrath of a legion of fan-boys but as
a PhD Physicist I will categorically state that much of the science in
the Marvel universe is total nonsense. For example, it requires a
certain suspension of belief that whole cities can be levitated. But
it's called "Science Fiction" for a reason, right? "Ant Man" pushes
that suspension of belief to whole new levels. The concept that a
miniaturised man, were such a thing even possible, could exert the same
moment and force as a full sized person would make Newton spin in his
grave.

With these nagging doubts I watched the trailer increasingly
comfortable in my view that, (even with a free cinema pass), this was a
film I would avoid like the plague. That was until the final scene,
featuring Thomas the Tank engine, that was ludicrously and surprisingly
comical. Could it be that, like last year's "Guardians of the Galaxy",
Marvel had pulled its pompous head out of its ass and come up with an
'Avengers-lite' that could entertain a broader audience? I decided to
risk it. And I was glad I did.

Paul Rudd ("Friends", "Anchorman") plays ex-con Scott Lang who is
recruited by brilliant scientist and would-be superhero Dr Hank Pym
(Michael Douglas) and his gorgeous daughter Hope ("Lost" and "The
Hobbit"'s Evangeline Lilly) to steal a jacket. (No, really). The owner
of said jacket, albeit a high-tech jacket, is businessman and all-round
bad-guy Darren Cross (Corey Stoll), with evil intent. (You can tell
he's evil by what he does to a cute little lamb - this is the worst
viewing for sheep since "Far from the Madding Crowd".) By miniaturising
Lang and securing the help of an army of ants, the stage is set for a
heist of a most unusual kind.

This sounds ridiculous to even write. So why does it work? First up,
the script by Edgar Wright ( of "3 Flavours Cornetto" fame), Adam McKay
("The Other Guys"), Joe Cornish and Paul Rudd himself is as tight as a
drum, with some situations and lines that are downright hilarious. A
couple of brilliant lip sync scenes, one featuring the requisite Stan
Lee cameo, are grin-inducing pleasures.

Supporting the screenplay, the three leading players pull off their
roles with enormous panache. Rudd is hugely likable, with all of the
smart-whip humour of Downey Jnr.'s "Iron Man" but with none of the
appalling arrogance. Michael Douglas, in his one outing this year,
seems to be revelling in his role and (presumably with the help of some
clever makeup and/or CGI) looking very dapper in the 1987 version of
his character. And Evangeline Lilly enters the Avenger's world with a
bang and looks very comfortable there. In an effective supporting role,
Michael Peña ("American Hustle") adds a comic lightness of touch as
fellow robber Luis. Abby Ryder Fortson also deserves special mention
(and an Oscar for cuteness) as Lang's young daughter.

Whilst real fan-boys might object to the flippant nature of the film,
there are a number of clever cross-overs into the 'mainstream'
"Avengers" films, with one B-list Avenger guest star and (eventually)
an A-list appearance. And (as is common in these films, and notable as
80% of the audience stayed in their seats for the full credits) there
is both a mid-credits scene (that's a set-up for the sequel) and a
final post-credit scene that (so I'd told) is hugely significant for
next year's "Captain America: Civil War" (in which Rudd is set to
reprise his "Ant Man" role).

The director is Peyton Reed, whose limited movie portfolio to date
includes Jim Carrey's "Yes Man" and "Bring it On".

As I found myself thoroughly enjoying the experience, my rating,
against all the odds, is twice what I expected it to be. I can't
believe I'm saying this but I recommend you go see this for a fun
movie summer experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll grant it from the start that Ant-Man is not my first choice for a
superhero movie. Apart from Aquaman and The Wall, it was the stupidest
thing one could think for a superhero. 

As it stands, I watched the movie mostly because my wife is a fan of
Paul. So far every other movie he has starred in has been my cup of
tea. Unfortunately this one is not. 

I'll give the movie a few credits. It had some humor effects that
caused my to actually laugh out loud (instead of merely stating lol
aloud) and some of the special effects used in the movie were decent
enough. It also gave tidbits of information about ants. 

Unfortunately the storyline was awkward. Granted, the original concept
wasn't much better either so I'd guess the screenwriters had to do with
the concept of ... sigh ... Ant-Man to begin with. The shrinking /
growing up suit mumbo-jumbo is ridiculous from the start, but I
expected it and was able to get past that.

It was just that the plot had enough holes in it that were fit for a
truck to drive through. I actually laughed most when the sidekick
character was worried about the well-being of a security guard he had
knocked out earlier and dragged him off the building before it
explodes, but paid no attention to the two guys he just knocked out. 

Of course, a few days is always enough time to teach a man to fight
martial arts well enough to beat dozens of people. I attended Karate
for two years and probably could not hurt a fly with my moves. 

The villain was a stereotypical bad guy with less depth than the
world's shortest book (Swedish military victories since 18th century).
Much like any of the bad guys in the very bad Steven Seagal / Chuck
Norris / Van Damme movies I've watched in my youth (forgive me, I did
not know better). In addition, in this movie he is stupid enough to aim
for the super suit that will change everything when he already has a
gun that can instantly remove any person from the face of the earth,
leaving hardly any evidence of his/her existence behind. No, none of
the powers in the world would pay any money for such weapon. Sigh.
Supersuit has to have lasers that copy the sound world of imperial
troopers.

The idea of shrinking has been dealt in movies such as Innerspace or
Honey, I Shrunk the Kids back in the 80s and truth be told, while the
effects are slightly better these days, the story of a good movie
requires more than a guy who can instantly change his size and use his
fists to beat people up. 

Truth be told, superhero movies follow the same pattern. It would be
more interesting to watch a movie about guys who have to clean up after
the superheroes and villains have fought. They have to pick up the
pieces, clean the neighborhood and rebuild everything. Only to start
from scratch the next time the good/bad guys decide to have a go at
each other.

That said. Paul Rudd plays his character decent enough where Michael
Douglas and the rest of the cast show up just to collect their
paychecks and fail to deliver anything resembling any sort of realistic
emotion or character behavior. If you like the guy, you might check
this movie out. If not, there's better things to do for the next 2
hours of your life.
