
This is a well-made suspense film. It builds slowly, it features the
key characters in sometimes agonising close-up, it weaves an intricate
plot (a bit too intricate, in hindsight -- I'm still not sure why some
events were included), and George Clooney is masterful as the morally
conflicted character who does his best to hold his collapsing life
together, while slowly realising that his role in life is not quite
what he thought it was in any case.

There are some things this film is not. It's not an action film ... if
you expect that, it will seem very slow. It's not a warm and friendly
film that leaves you feeling good about the world -- it was shot in
winter, just to emphasise its coldness. It's not a comedy in any way,
not even through being over-the-top. It's reality rather than escapism.

If you like suspense, unflinching realism, stories of moral conflict,
criticisms of corporate America, or George Clooney -- or if you're just
in the mood to see that kind of film -- you'll love it. If you're in
the mood for a film to wash away the cares of the day (as I was),
choose something else.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Clayton is not your typical legal thriller. Oh, it has most of
the standard trappings of one: double-crossing, shady back room deals,
and a guilty client. But in the case of Michael Clayton, the film
focuses most of its attention on the questionable moral quagmire of
working for guilty clients, living your life protecting those who you
can't help but find reprehensible, wanting to get out, but finding you
are good at it and that is where your superiors want you. Michael
Clayton isn't a revelatory film, but it is a smart one that deals in
the grey world that we all live in, not the black and white one legal
films are usually about.

The central character is Michael Clayton (George Clooney), a "fixer" at
a major Manhattan law firm. His job entails him cleaning up other's
messes, not litigating in a court room. He hates the work, but the
senior partner at the firm, Marty Bach (Sydney Pollack), wants him to
stay in the job because he has a talent for it. Things are not rosy for
Michael right now: his addict brother has run a business venture that
Michael was a partner in into the ground, leaving Michael with
thousands of dollars in debt; his relationship with his ex-wife is on
the rocks, and into this environment comes a whole new caliber of
problem: Michael's friend, and fellow attorney, Arthur Edens (Tom
Wilkinson), who is a lead attorney for a major case for the firm
involving U/North, a huge, multifaceted corporation, has discovered
evidence damning to U/North, and has also, seemingly, lost his senses.

Arthur begins plotting to publicly expose U/North with this evidence,
thereby destroying them, something that U/North's lead corporate
attorney, Karen Crowder (Tilda Swinton), cannot allow. Michael is
called in to help calm Arthur and bring the situation under control,
but it becomes quickly obvious that Arthur cannot be reigned in, and
Karen begins looking at far more dire methods of containment.

When you walk into Michael Clayton, you need to be prepared for a
limited amount of action, and a fair amount of talk. It is a film about
words and far less exciting events than found in many movies. Michael
Clayton is also not the most straightforwardly plotted film. A great
deal of information is suggested through inference and requires the
full attention of the audience. But Michael Clayton is hardly boring.
It delves into the decisions that individuals make when their
livelihood depends on living in a moral quagmire. Michael is a man who
is concerned about making sure that he can make the payments on a huge
debt and dealing with the sometimes annoying and reprehensible people
that the law firm provides its services to. Arthur is in a similar
situation, but he can no longer live with himself and the protection of
clients who are obviously guilty. It is debatable whether Arthur is
mentally unhinged, or simply woken up to the reality of his actions and
what they mean in the grander scheme of things.

Michael Clayton is the directorial debut of Tony Gilroy, a longtime
Hollywood screenwriter, who crafts a film that manages to keep you
involved like a good thriller without providing many of the requisite
elements: chases, shootouts and fisticuffs. Michael Clayton is a
thriller that works at a slower pace, but still manages to enthrall
with its developments. Critical to the film's success is its
performances. George Clooney gives us a Michael who feels many aspects
of his world closing around him and tries to keep all the balls in the
air. Tom Wilkinson's turn as Arthur is that of a man who has
experienced an epiphany, seeing the world like a newborn baby. Finally,
Tilda Swinton's Karen Crowder is a woman who is all about appearance
(one of her first scenes reveals her practicing a speech so that it
will appear perfect) and ensuring that no one rocks the boat of
U/North. She has sold her soul to the devil and will do anything to
keep the company intact.

Michael Clayton is certainly not everyone's cup of tea. It requires a
strong attention span and a willingness to not have everything spelled
out for you. If you can provide that, then it is a film experience that
will provide some rewards.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing "Superbad" last weekend, I needed a grown-up antidote and
this movie is certainly that. A slow moving, adult, serious movie with
a message.

The movie has a number of themes including ageing, corruption,
principles and truth. The movie's message is that there is more to life
than making money.

The acting is uniformly good but Clooney is outstanding. His character
is complex and he's pretty unhappy with what he has become. But it's
all done very subtly. There are no obvious messages in this movie. As
another reviewer wrote, you have to pay attention.

Don't read too much into my "slow moving/slow burner" descriptions.
This movie is not boring. It just doesn't whiz along with one
implausible twist after another. It's evenly paced with an almost
complete lack of silly plot lines (there was no need for the lawyer in
crisis to remove his clothes during a trial).

Everyone involved in this movie deserves praise for producing a
challenging, grown-up, movie-with-a-message in the face of a torrent of
mindless nonsense.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
During one scene, high powered corporate lawyer Karen Crowder (Tilda
Swinton) practices answers for a coming interview. How do you achieve a
work-life balance? The question, of course, could apply to us all.

Ideals versus the reality of paying a mortgage? Trapped in a fast
lifestyle. You maybe realise what you are doing is less than perfect.
How easily can you get out? (One might also ask, how do serious actors
balance worthwhile projects against box-office returns. A question that
seems to prompt the fluctuating choices of stars like Swinton and
Clooney.)

By putting such an impasse at the heart of the movie, Michael Clayton
becomes more than an edge-of-your-seat legal drama: it is a powerful
psychological study that asks how far we will go to avoid facing
unpalatable truths.

Michael Clayton (George Clooney) is an in-house 'fixer.' He works for a
big New York law firm. He sorts out their dirty work. For instance, a
big client is involved in a hit-and-run. Or bad stories in the press
that need smoothed out. Clayton is good at his job. But discontented.
Divorce, gambling addiction, failed business venture, loads of debt. No
easy way out, even if he wanted one.

U-North is a large agrichemical company (think Constant Gardener).
Their in-house chief counsel is Karen Crowder (Tilda Swinton). Karen
wants to see off a multi-million dollar class action suit. Clayton's
firm is employed to wind it all up nicely for her. But Clayton's
colleague, the brilliant Arthur Edens (Tom Wilkinson), has an apparent
mental breakdown. He strips off during a deposition. Then tries to
sabotage the entire case. Clayton goes in to 'fix' things, yet he is
gradually forced to admit how good the firm has maybe become at making
wrong seem right.

Much in the tradition of Erin Brockovitch or even Syriana, this is a
film that tries to attack the respected authorities while still working
within the format of mainstream cinema. (More cynically, it uses high
production values and scenes that last no longer than the attention
span of passive audiences Â– supposedly the length of a TV commercial
break.)

Directed by the man who wrote the Bourne trilogy, Michael Clayton racks
up an intelligent suspense movie out of a plot nominally too dry for
mass-market appeal. It reminds us of a world of imperatives we all
succumb to. Maybe we don't always stop to question our job or its
ethics too closely? Finish our overtime. Get reports ready for
tomorrow. Close the deal. Have some private life. Let's leave
philosophy for people with time on their hands. 'Nothing to do with
me.'

This is a moral-dilemma-movie that could easily have failed and
doesn't. Two hours of lawyer-talk could be enough to bore anyone. But
the screenplay cleverly contrasts high-intensity scenes and
well-developed characters. Arthur's psychotic ranting. Clooney's
impenetrable cool. Swinton's prepared polish. These are displayed in
the boardroom. Or uncomfortably restrained emotion in family scenes.
The high-stakes backroom card game. Or the simple, almost
documentary-like portrayal of one of the plaintiffs claiming damages
from U-North.

Director Tony Gilroy is in no hurry to play all his cards. By the time
murder enters the game, we are so engrossed that it seems like a
natural progression.

Cinematography by Oscar-nominated Robert Elswit is crucial. Right from
the start, we are torn by fascinating contrasts. A long panning shot
through expensive, empty offices is coupled with a sound-over of manic
rambling. Suddenly the camera wanders into a busy room. An annoying
reporter over the phone. And the overheard phrase, "The time is now,"
brings everything together in the present. Shortly afterwards, a
horrific scene in which Clayton is almost killed. Then flashback four
days to unravel a 'smoking gun' that can overturn the lawsuit on which
lives, careers and whole firms rely.

At one point, a shadow on the lower right of the screen could almost be
an audience member standing up. As it advances, we see it is Clooney.
His 'reality-check' moment Â– one with which we have been subtly led to
identify Â– then saves his life. The subsequent soul-searching and inner
turmoil also provide one of Clooney's most rounded and complex
performances to date. (Additional casting is spot-on, with Wilkinson
and Swinton both excelling themselves.)

Clayton's ability to ask himself difficult questions is matched by
Crowder's knack for self-deception. It is a frightening depiction of
the legal mastery of words when she gives instructions for the most
abominable acts with total deniability.

Although the overly obvious Blackberry product-placement annoyed me
slightly, I found Michael Clayton a satisfying film without any of the
usual over-simplified characters. Threads are pulled together a bit too
conveniently towards the end, but it succeeds in never seeming
contrived. If you have always put off thinking a little too deeply
about where your own life is heading, it might even give you a
necessary nudge. But as all-round entertainment to a thinking audience,
Michael Clayton is one of this summer's better movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at a screening at the Toronto Int'l Film Festival.

This movie is appropriately titled "Michael Clayton" because in it we
are introduced to the man in his many life roles; father, ex-husband,
brother, son, friend and businessman. Some things he's good at, others
not so much.

Terry Gilroy's debut directing showed a controlled and restrained hand,
allowing the multi-tracked storyline to expand and grow, but always
with a pull back to the core. For a fairly busy plot with numerous
sub-characters, he did a good job of turning over pieces of the puzzle
to bring the audience back full circle to the opening scene.

Michael Clayton fixes things, but we see in his own personal life there
are a trail of problems he's dealing with. It's when he works alone
that he seems to do his best work. Once those close to him come into
his decision-making process, he lets emotions rule rather than his
head.

George Clooney always seems to have a message in his movies, wanting us
to be aware of the evil-doers out in the world. His boyish charm and
general likability makes you root for him. We can relate to him.

Michael Clayton is a flawed individual who has good intentions but
often gets beaten by the world and the people around him. Can't we all
relate to that too? This was a satisfying suspense flick. Key to
enjoying it is to pay attention.
<|_=00=_|>
"Michael Clayton" is the name of the best lawyer in the powerhouse
litigation firm of Kenner, Bach, & Ledeen. So good, he's not allowed to
waste himself in court; he's used to clean up the messes the firm's
rich and powerful clients cause -- and he's damn good at his job.
Problem is, it's destroying him from the inside out. At least...it's
doing so until he slams headlong into a problem that forces him to see
the decay growing within. That problem comes in the form of a brilliant
but guilt-ridden attorney named Arthur Edens, whose spectacular
meltdown during a deposition has thrown a HUGE class-action suit
against a conglomerate called UNorth into turmoil. Michael is sent to
get him back under control...or else, thus setting in motion what is,
in my mind, one of the most breathtaking suspense dramas I've seen in
years.

Starting with a tight, stunning script by Tony Gilroy, this movie has
every cylinder firing in perfect sync. The acting is, without
exception, exceptional. George Clooney takes a vile human being and
inhabits him with such sympathy and understanding, he becomes just
another man fighting to keep his life going who IS still capable of
decency. (The moment where, after Michael's son has seen a beloved
uncle who's an addict come groveling for forgiveness, he stops the car
and lets the boy know he's stronger than that uncle is so right and so
perfect, I nearly wept.) And Tilda Swinton's litigator, Karen Crowder,
is so desperate and unsure, you can almost understand why she makes
some of the decisions she does. And Tom Wilkinson blazes across the
screen as Arthur Edens, who has finally seen the evil within himself
and wants to make it right but who, despite all his legal brilliance,
is still naive enough to think he can get away with it.

The direction is taut, cinematography and editing cool and precise, and
all are at the service of an elegant work that uses the suspense genre
to illuminate a filthy world that has been glossed over by money and
power. Magnificent in every way.
<|_=00=_|>
In a world over-run by corporations and lawyers, the little man rarely
wins. It takes a big man to keep that world in order. But sometimes
another big man comes along to show who really is the big man. Or is it
a woman? That said, no big man would exist without the little man - the
outsider.

While you can watch this movie and see a good story develop, the story
makes an interesting shift. The people become the story once the
initial story has laid to bare the reason for the peoples' existence.

I enjoyed it for that very reason. The characters were all extremely
interesting thanks to great performances by everyone. Clooney,
Wilkinson, Pollack and especially Tilda Swinton(White Witch from
Narnia) - I am in love with her acting ability. I will be doing some
back-tracking to catch up on what I have missed from her. In Narnia,
she was deliciously evil and in Clayton, she couldn't be any worse at
being evil, but that was her character. It was fun to watch how she
made weakness such a strength.

Wilkinson is such an all around great actor and makes his character
seem lovable although pitiful and downright nasty for reasons I won't
bring up here. Wilkinson definitely delivers.

Clooney provided the best performance in a long time. I think Clooney
has long been an interesting performer but this role is just one of his
best - dedicated, sometimes mysterious, loving and charming; even funny
and sad.

You may look for more in the story line but you may miss the best part
if you don't accept that the people are the story once the movie gets
rolling.

8 of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I didn't expect much of Michael Clayton. But it has
grown on me in such a way, reassuring me with it's decided desolate
aura, that I owe a review to those in a doubtful measure.

Although it starts with some idle comings and goings, the first
reaction we have is to alienate with Clayton. He is battered down,
morally ambiguous, suffered. If one watches closely his eyes, one can
discover within how a feeling of despair takes over. Clooney is a very
happy, cheerful guy: you will appreciate his work, how he lets Clayton
dominate Clooney.

In here, the lawyer of the title must decide which side to take in an
important lawsuit after his friend changes sides and endangers himself.
Is he helping the good guys? How can he tell, deep Inside? The film
carries the moral dilemmas, the strangled fight between choosing the
good and the correct. Gilroy commanded a brilliant, harrowing script.
But Clooney is the definite star, with his sadness, empathy. His sorrow
is deeply moving. 

The Grey, moisturized environments, carefully veiled with a soft mist.
Clooney's interior acting, arising within his foggy emotions. 

This film is not cheerful, it's somehow depressing. But it's a must
see.
<|_=00=_|>
With previous works on similar subjects such as "The Firm," "A Civil
Action" and "Erin Brockovich," how can this one pull it off better? No
one would ever believe it can until they see it themselves. Tony
Gilroy, the screenwriter of "The Bourne" trilogy, revisits the
saint-or-sinner theme in "The Devil's Advocate" and brings an excellent
script that is full of precise dialog and intense sequences.

Michael Clayton, the senior lawyer in his firm, has fixed up many
troubling cases which might not be considered as justice methods. Until
another senior partner of the firm, Arthur Edens, freaked out at a
hearing, the turning point of his life comes along with it
unexpectedly.

Just like any of us, Clayton has to deal with many difficulties in
life. Besides the handful works, there are also the child support and
the dept owed by his brother. His son, Henry, is a smart kid and fully
realizes the way life is. On the contrary, Timmy, his younger brother,
just couldn't know how to stay out of trouble despite of having an
older brother, Gene, who happens to be an officer.

The case which makes Edens freak out or just pretend to is a lawsuit
involves with billions of dollars and hundreds of lives. It's not a
rare affair in the U.S. and also one of the bigger ones that makes law
firms make profits by helping big industries. But do the lawyers can
all manage the deals without their conscience? Yes is the more likely
answer.

Unlike the conscience Edens discovers within himself, the executive
spokesman, Karen Crowder, doesn't care anything else but the welfare of
the firm and, of course, of herself. But she is in fact very diffident
due to her position and her sex. The only way she can breakthrough
these odds is to make her bosses impressive.

As many have said in their reviews, George Clooney gave his best
performance to date. He portrayed this role which is the key to the
success of the movie brilliantly with every look, every move and every
line that he has to as also an executive producer. He's a strong Oscar
contender already.

The acclaimed but overlooked actor Tom Wilkinson does another great job
as Edens. The reason and insanity of the role can both be seen through
his limited but powerful interpretation.

It's even more thrilling to see Tilda Swinton in the cast. Very
different from her previous roles which are well-known as authoritative
and neuter, she dealt with a feminine role which tries to act strong
but actually weak this time.

Another executive producer and the director of "The firm," Sydney
Pollack, took the part which is only bigger than a cameo, shows his
interest in this genre once more and being an actor besides already an
acclaimed film director. Along side is Steven Soderbergh, the old pal
of Clooney and the director of "Erin Brokovich." 

With the constant dialog, it might fail to satisfy action-flick fans
easily which it seems like one in the trailer. But as a suspense
thriller, it's possibly the best one of the year or even in years. The
important topic of the downfall sense of justice is a very present
message to the society which is filled with the value that measured by
money and power. And the gripping storytelling and the dream-alike
ensemble cast shows what a good movie is made of.

As the credit shows on the right, the face of Clayton is still shown on
screen which tells more about his feeling after the immense scenes he
has just been through. Gilroy added a touch of realism to the ending
after the metaphor sequence with the horses in the mist.
<|_=00=_|>
So are spoken as some of the most desperate words- not crazy, there's a
difference- in recent movie memory. Michael Clayton is about the
character trying to deal with his hand of fate, which is pretty dire:
he's 45, working for 17 years for a law-firm where he's a "fixer",
cleaning up the problems that can't be solved through simple
litigations. Now he has a problem with the chief attorney, the "legend"
Arthur (Tom Wilkinson) who has just gone streaking after one of the
witnesses in a parking lot. The whole case could fall apart, but is
there more than meets the eye? Murder, wire-taps, cover-ups, bombs, and
at the core the placidity of a straight-laced face (Tilda Swinton), are
all apart of the not-too-complicated puzzle.

It goes without saying that there is a little more than some debt that
Gilroy owes to Network, if only in the face-value to be taken from the
characters: the weathered professional, the nut who really has ecstatic
truth in the Herzog sense, the cold and exacting woman, and the guy
working as a top dog behind the scenes. But where Network was as dark
as satires get, if there's any laughter to come out of Michael Clayton
it's only in the extremely uncomfortable moments of Wilkinson walking
in a daze through Times Square or disrobing maniacally on video, or a
couple of chuckles at the wrap-up climax. It's a paranoid thriller
where, in reality, it's not exactly paranoia in the strictest sense: if
it's really happening, then it shouldn't be something to watch out for.
But Gilroy continues to build on a sensibility of paranoia, of the
darkness creeping up behind the corporate facade, of the sinister
presence of those men in cars and vans with total access to whatever
and whenever with the target. And you thought the Bourne movies-
co-written by Gilory- were tense genre pieces.

What makes a film like Michael Clayton end up as memorable as it is,
almost essential for those wanting to go to the movies for a serious
drama without pretense or extreme melodrama, is the script and the
performances. It's indeed such a strong script that it surely covers
over the direction- as a directorial debut it feels like the work of a
professional with countless years behind the belt, with a few notes of
experimentation (the opening rambling voice-over on the looming, still
shots of the empty rooms at the office at night, and the final shot as
something that breaks away from what could be a bit more predictable
and instead kind of haunting). And it's something as literate as this
that allows for actors to go for what they can do best: for Wilkinson,
Oscar worthy to a T, it's both subtle and over-the-top with Arthur, at
one point making a masterful stroke of carrying loaves of bread;
Swinton makes the careful act of preparation and looking at a mirror
like it's everything to the character; Pollack, solid as usual, not too
much to say.

Then there's Clooney. Already one of those leading men in Hollywood
that has enough clout to probably get Sim City made into a movie if he
wanted to, when given a serious and complex enough part to dive into
(which has been frequent lately save for the Ocean movies) he's near
perfect. I love seeing him on the brink of exploding at Arthur when he
first sees him going on and on in the prison cell, or when he levels
with his kid about his druggie-bum brother, or just in the way he looks
frightened and unsure at some horses in a field. And the aforementioned
shot couldn't be done so well by anyone else- you don't want to leave
the theater even as the credits roll by, because he might do something,
something slight behind the usual super-handsome exterior as he leaves
the audience wanting to see more. It's an excellent genre film, but
it's probably one of the few near perfect performances of the actor's
career (and yes, I include Return of the Killer Tomatoes in that
group).
