
I just attended the premier of Flyboys at the Oshkosh Airshow. Enjoyed
it thoroughly. The flight scene special effects were difficult to
impossible to distinguish from the actual flying. Director Tony Bill
discussed the background and making of the film to an audience composed
largely of aviators including some of the best such as Bob Hoover, Sean
Tucker and others. A difficult audience to impress and impressed they
were.

The film does not shy away from the ugly aspects of combat nor does it
ignore the seamier aspects of the non-flying life although that is
nowhere near becoming graphic. The history has been treated accurately
- and yes there was really a black pilot as portrayed in the film. I
have read a number of histories and autobiographical accounts of the
American volunteers - they were idealistic and naive. Thats just the
age they lived in - don't judge the characterizations by todays
standards.

Anyway, a wonderful film.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) World War I began in Europe in 1914, but by 1917, the United
States had still not entered the war. However, many brave young
American men went to France to fly and fight for the Allied powers.
They joined the Lafayette Escadrille fighter squadron. The Germans had
better planes, weapons, and pilots. The average life expectancy for a
fighter-pilot was three to six weeks. Why did these Americans volunteer
to fight in France with certain death when their own country was not at
war? This was a time when men were idealistic, but naive to embark on a
great adventure. Blaine Rawlings (James Franco) was forced to leave his
home in Arizona after the family ranch was foreclosed by the bank.
Blaine sees a newsreel of fighter-pilots in France and decides that he
has nothing to lose. Briggs Lowry (Tyler Labine) can't do anything
right and is shamed into joining by his rich father. African-American
boxer Eugene Skinner (Abdul Salis) had been living in France, a
racially tolerant country, for many years, wanted to give something
back to his new country. These Americans were under the command of
French Captain Georges Thenault (Jean Reno) and American Squadron
Leader Reed Cassidy (Martin Henderson). They were the world's first
combat pilots.

(My Comment) The film was inspired by a true story. What that means is
that the writers could write anything they wanted to about the pilots'
personal lives. There were actually 38 American volunteers with an
average age of 26 that joined the Lafayette Escadrille. Thirty were
college educated and eleven were sons of millionaires. These men had a
sense of adventure and romance of war, and they believed in "dying with
honor." The movie uses a composite of these qualities of the actual
pilots, and yes, there really was a black pilot in the squadron. The
movie does not shy away from the real aspects of war or the sordid
aspects of life on the ground. After every mission there are some
pilots who do not return, and we get to see their replacements, and how
the pilots deal with the loss of their friends. The aerial combat was
exciting, tense, and realistic with the attack on the zeppelin being
the best scene of the movie. There is a love story that slows the pace
of the movie, and it was a little too long. You will love the scenes
with Whiskey, their mascot lion. I think the writers could have used
the real pilots' stories and names, and it would have been a better
movie by giving credit to those young men. If you like war pictures
this is a movie to see. (MGM Pictures, Run time 2:19, Rated
PG-13)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed the movie. You didn't have to think much about it, it
was what it was. Apparently there are some close ties to the true story
but it never seemed an issue of trying to portray something too
realistic. I am not a huge Franco fan, in fact his poutiness wears on
you in most films but he seems to do a really good job of mixing it up,
meaning he smiles in this one. I saw a pre-release screening and
everyone that I spoke to agreed that it was a good movie. The special
effects were really good, the airplanes seemed very realistic for the
most part. The close ups seemed a little fake but the tactics seemed
really good. I found a bit of cheesiness in the dialog at times but
managed to not pay too much attention too it. It wasn't deep but kept
you interested the whole time. Don't get me wrong, it was no Saving
Private Ryan but it had enough action and drama to keep you interested.
They even threw a bit of humor in to keep you loose in your seat. I
would recommend it to anyone, just don't expect to walk away a changed
person for having seen it. It was a fun movie with some good historical
point.
<|_=00=_|>
Very Entertaining. I will recommend it. Attention to detail was very
factual, such as filing the bullets so they wouldn't jam and the
Spandaus having to be hand cocked. Drideckers, the three winged
Fokkers; did not enter the war until the very end. There were also two
lions; Whisky and Soda, who were later banned to the stables because
they kept peeing all over the ch√¢teau. The characters were very well
done and told a good story. I hope it makes people look up the fliers
and read about them. There were quite a few men that made up the
Esquidrille and all were very interesting. When fact becomes legend
print the legend.
<|_=00=_|>
There are five combat sequences that make this flick worth your
ticket--maybe 20 minutes worth seeing in the entire film. The CGI is
excellent, especially the Gotha bomber. Wow. And the Zeppelin ain't
bad.

Having said that: It's riddled with factual and historical errors, ALL
of which were avoidable had the writers/director cared to pay
attention. (It probably would have cost nothing to do it right.) 

A short list would include: Nonexistent aircraft in 1916 such as the
Fokker Triplanes (all of them red except the black one!), Sopwith
Camel, SE-5, and Bristol Fighter.

The concept of training pilots to fly in a combat squadron is of course
absurd but the director apparently thought it necessary as a plot
device.

French airmen learning to fly in a British airplane (Sopwith Strutter)
is equally absurd.

For the real hair splitters, the Gotha and some triplanes have the
straight-edged Balkan crosses that appeared two years later. Other
fingernails on the blackboard include "9mm Spandau" machine guns (they
were 7.92 Mauser) and "canvas" covering on the wings when cotton or
linen were used because canvas was much too heavy.

But beyond that, the script takes a pedestrian approach to what could
have been a more evocative, even inspiring, film. There are no standout
performances, and the syrupy, chaste romance goes nowhere. The only
reason for including it probably was to draw in more of an audience as
a date flick (not quite a chick flick.) For those of us who truly enjoy
aviation films, this one proved a major disappointment but hey, within
limits, almost any WW I flying flick is better than no WW I flying
flick.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the previews and read the synopsis, I was expecting a
horrible film like Pearl Harbor. Fighter pilots in love with a girl.
Happily the love story is not sappy or sickening and actually helps
create character development. And how the love story ends is a very
nice non-Hollywood ending.

The Planes look magnificent, but could have been done better. The use
of German Dr1's (the Fokker Triplanes) as the only German fighter is
understandable as distinguishing friend from foe. However, making all
of the Dr1's (except for the main villains ) solid red is extremely
annoying. While it is up to some discussion if the Red Baron's Dr1 was
all red or mostly red, it does not mean that all Dr1's were red,
especially all red. The Dr1's came from the Fokker factory usually in
an olive drab paint scheme with a light blue underside. The film makers
could have added a red scheme to the planes but left a portion olive
drab and blue underside, it still would have made the Germans
distinctive without being clones of Manfred von Rictoffen.

The dogfights are fun to watch and are fairly exciting, however the
planes fly highly unrealistically at times. Overall the CGI is
excellent but at times it is noticeable as CGI. The planes that explode
(Explosions are such a Hollywood staple :) ) are unrealistic. The
planes are traveling 70 t0 100 miles per hour in reality, but the
explosions react as if the plane is standing still, going up in a ball
instead of being spread along the doomed plane's path.

Over all it was fun to watch and covers a historical period that has
long been neglected in film.
<|_=00=_|>
Do not expect much from the plot as you need not scratch the surface
too deeply to experience de'ja vu. (I've seen these plot elements
before in just about every war/buddy/love story flick I have ever
seen). 

The acting is decent and the special effects are superb. Do not see
this movie with high expectations regarding the plot and you will not
be disappointed. 

The effects wizards took a page from Howard Hughes as there are plenty
of clouds in the air combat scenes to lend a feeling of depth and
speed. The dog fights are pretty exciting and worth the price of
admission to see on the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the story of American volunteers who fought for the French
during World War I before America entered the war. It is based on a
true story, and largely faithful to that story. The first world war was
the first "ugly" war. It is the first war where, as one of the
characters observes, "Neither side will win. It will just end." And,
this movie does not shrink away from showing the horror, the ugliness,
and the overwhelming grimness of war.

Because the special effects made it possible, more than any movie in
recent memory, it graphically shows the excitement and the adrenaline
rush of combat flying. The combat sequences are nothing short of
dazzling; they were so good I could experience vicariously the rush of
bullets tearing through cloth fuselages, the spins and turns, and dips
and climbs, and barrel rolls, and dives, and with all that, I could
look inside myself and know I did not have the courage to do what they
did. In the end, that's what this story is about, and the love story,
the individual pilot lives fade into the background.

Still, it's worth noting, one of the movie's best moments is the
denouement where we learn what happened to the Americans of the
Lafayette Escadrille, those who survived. I won't spoil it for you,
just know that truth is stranger than fiction, and often a good deal
sadder. I enjoyed Flyboys for what it was: the chance to vicariously
experience the adrenaline rush of aerial combat. Performances were
good, and Jean Reno was great as the captain of the Lafayette
Escadrille. Nice popcorn flick.
<|_=00=_|>
When this movie hits theaters this fall it will be setting a new
standard for digital FX photography action scenes. I had a hard time
telling the difference between the real stunt flying and the CGI. It
almost makes George Lucas's dogfights in space look crude. (OK, maybe
with the exception of that fantastic first shot in Episode 3.) But
imagine that level of technological knowhow applied to a WW1 dogfight.
And like the original "Star Wars" there is a scene here involving the
German equivalent of the Death Star threatening Paris that is nothing
short of spectacular. A shame, then, that the rest of the story is less
than inspiring. Whatever the actual history, I didn't quite believe the
subplot of the black American pilot. He seemed a clich√© and just one of
several stock characters. The love story ultimately goes nowhere,
either, though James Franco and Jennifer Decker both turn in moving
performances. As innocent and naive as Franco and his friends seem,
they never get past the cardboard stage. It would've been more
interesting to me if they were a neurotic, drunken, whoring bunch of
elitists, most of whom would then never get over the experience. Rather
than tell that tale of a decadent, sophisticated flyboy of the
Lafayette Escadrille, however, they settle here for the Disney version,
appealing to the lowest common denominator and an audience of
teenagers, with Franco doing a good job playing Luke Skywalker, or
maybe Gary Cooper. Jean Reno seemed largely wasted. I kept hoping he'd
have more to do. But lest you think I had a bad time, think again. This
is a movie about "aeroplanes," and they are all terrific, be they
replicas or virtual. And the overall production design is superb.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to see a movie in which the CGI flying sequences are
cluttered and unconvincing, where the hero takes no evasive action at
all as the nasty guy in the black Fokker sits on his tail taking
careful aim, where airplanes continuously fly through the camera, where
bullets make holes as big as pie plates when they hit fabric instead of
punching though it, where our hero cannot lift the fabric-covered wing
off his friend's hand, where a girl learns English in two easy lessons,
where the Squadron CO gives the hero a medal for disobeying a direct
order, where the hero is out of uniform half the time, and where nobody
at all says a damned thing worth listening to, then by all means go see
"Flyboys".

But if you'd like to see a movie about the same subject in which the
action sequences are actually exciting, something is said about war
that is worth thinking about and the characters are well-played, go
rent "The Dawn Patrol", made in 1938.

Twenty times better than this.

No, on second thought, fifty times better than this.
