
There are movies that follow a relatively obvious plot. There are
movies where you expect every plot twist ten minutes in advance. This
certainly is one of those movies. But then, why would you go see a
comedy looking for gripping plot lines? This is one of those movies
that would have bombed, in the wrong hands. Given an average director
and a mediocre cast, this movie would have been barely watchable. But
under the care of Bob Odenkirk and a trio of skilled actors, it turns
out as one of the funnier movies of the year.

Let me be clear about one thing: this movie is all about subtle, dry
humor. The situations are, on their own, intentionally not funny.
Played a different way, many of them would be downright terrifying. But
the way the actors carry themselves through it, their timing, their
facial expressions, bring out the absurdity of the serious script.

If you go into the movie expecting it to hit you in the face with
everything it's got, you may be disappointed. But if you go prepared to
pay attention and catch the nuances as well as the broad strokes,
you'll barely stop laughing.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie to be quite funny with an original story line. The
story is about a habitual criminal who repeatedly comes before the same
judge to be sentenced. He devises a method of revenge upon this judge
whereupon his release from prison, he frames the judge's son on a crime
which sends the judge's son to prison. The habitual criminal then
commits a crime to be his cell mate and there the fun begins.

This is obviously a dark-humored comedy and it had me laughing more
than I had anticipated. It was given only a 5 star by IMDb users so I
did not expect much but it was quite good. I am surprised it did not
get that much notoriety in the theaters. In fact, I never heard of this
film at all. It's amazing that crappy comedy movies like Wild Hogs and
I Think I Love My Wife get all the attention while really funny movie
like this get passed by. But what can you do since there really is no
star power in this movie. You will recognize actors and actresses since
many of them have appeared in many films as supporting characters. It's
just that they don't have the name recognition.

The only weakness I found in this movies was the crime by with which
the judge's son was framed. The writers should have thought of a more
plausible reason for his incarceration. However, after some thought, I
figure this is comedy and the whole movie is a stretch of the
imagination so I am overlooking this weakness.

I am not saying, however, that this is a great comedy but it was good
and it had me laughing pretty much throughout the movie and in my
opinion, that warrants a 7. If you like Van Wilder, Sorority Boys, and
Harold and Kumar Goes to White Castle type of movies, then you will
like this as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie received nothing but bad reviews by internet bloggers. I
find that in this day and age, humour is evolving like mad. Look at
shows like Trailer Park Boys, Strangers with Candy, and Arrested
Development. All hilarious, but people call them stupid. BUT HOW MANY
PEOPLE FIND THESE SHOWS FUNNY!? Lots...and that's why I recommend all
those with this sense of humour to go see this movie. It's true that I
was the only one laughing out loud in a nearly empty theatre, but
obviously someone found it funny. If you like semi-twisted, fresh, edgy
as hell sense of humour than this movie is aces. All in all, it's worth
it to see, especially if you're a Will Arnett fan! Make your own
judgements though, it's not like yer forced to keep watching it if you
don't like it. But I, however, plan to see it again and again. Probably
in theatres. Also, if you smoke pot, straight up, just watch it. 10
THUMBS UP!
<|_=00=_|>
John Lyshitski (Dax Shepard) is a young guy who's spent most of his
life in prison, blaming the judge who continuously sent him them, he
hatches his plan for revenge. But he dies three days before he gets
free of prison, so John decides to go after the judge's son, Nelson
(Will Arnet of brilliant "Arrested Development" fame) John's plan is to
frame Nelson, get him sent to jail, and then get himself sent to the
same jail to bunk with him, which he accomplishes. But things don't
always go as planned afterwords though.

Personally I found this film hilarious and don't really know why
there's all this hatred towards it. Will Arnet is pretty funny and Dax
Shepard plays off him quite well. But the REAL star of the film is Chi
McBride as Barry, an eloquent rapist. Whenever he's on the screen it
had me in stitches. The film's not as good as Mr. Show was (but hell
what can be?) But director Bob Odenkirk still has a winner here.

My Grade: B+
<|_=00=_|>
Hilarious offbeat comedy. I say "offbeat" since the main love interest
is a large black man named Barry, who will woo you like you've never
been woo-ed before. This is not your normal Hollywood comedy, it's got
more of an "Arrested Development" feel - a funny script and Bob
Odenkirk's direction (and supporting player role) make this work.
Basically, this film takes every men's prison clich√© and pushes it ten
times further. If you've ever wanted to just stay in and drink toilet
wine with a loved one, then this film should resonate with you. This is
destined to end up a cult movie since it's not exactly mainstream
humor, but if you're a fan of Odenkirk and David Cross's "Mr. Show,"
you'll find a lot here to enjoy - and you'll also find the very tall
Brian Posner standing in a crowd scene near the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Putting this into my DVD player i didn't expect more than a few
chuckles but i found myself laughing hysterically rather frequently.
While i don't think every joke landed quite as well as Odenkirk would
have wanted, the overall product was rather funny. Chi McBride has by
far the funniest character in the film since he does fall in love with
one of my personal favorites, Will Arnett. Dax Shepherd was
surprisingly standable considering i'm really not a fan of his at all.
Dylan Baker's "comment in the butt hole" joke i don't think quite made
it... or maybe that was the point, so i didn't care much for him.
Koechner was as funny as usual and all the stupid quirks of this movie
made me laugh. Deep? No. Funny? Yes. What's funnier than a rich inmate
struggling with a bunch of people who want to kill him or try to have
dirty sex with him? That's funny.
<|_=00=_|>
It's rare I comment on a Film because most films in my view are average
- but this film is very funny and very well played and believable - I
didn't see it coming - but maybe I was just being too entertained by it
all - I particularly enjoyed the visual comedy of this film facial
expressions were so perfect I almost wet myself on several occasions
from start to finish this film entertained and made me laugh - even the
closing titles where the three main characters were in the people
carrier being entertained by the CD Player !! hehehe - just thinking
about it makes me almost cry laughing again - so don't be put off by
the poor rating so far - don't worry that there aren't such well known
actors - do enjoy this well constructed, very funny film
<|_=00=_|>
This movie captures and colorizes the satiric humor of prison and
otherwise predictable jail humor in a way that is completely and
thankfully watchable.

The story centers around three characters - Will Arnett is stuck in the
center, utilizing his patentable 'that guys an a-hole but I'd still
have a beer with him' persona and has it very well countered by two
great actors whose subtle humor and physical timing really cuts out a
sympathetic and f'n hilarious story that you don't want to end when it
does. Which is saying a lot for this genre.

Of course there are ridiculous and improbable twists that you forgive
because they are so damn fun. Nice touch on the epilogue and the ending
credits.

It's good. It's better than good. It's not an art movie - it's not a
fart movie - it's not even a combination. But if you've ever gone out
of your way to watch Curb Your Enthusiasm, Arrested Development or Reno
911 you'll really enjoy it.

Beeyatch.
<|_=00=_|>
Why all the negative reviews?? Hard to believe soo many of you have
bashed this movie. I understand that not all people like this style of
a movie. Kinda like Walk Hard - The Dewey Cox story. I loved both. 

Being a person who enjoys the bluntness of people like George Carlin I
must say this movie is in your face funny! If you expect to see some
teenage dukes of Hazzard style film then don't bother. This movie is
for people who like adult style laugh your butt off fun. I watch South
Park religiously and this is the one movie that makes me laugh the
same.

Don't miss all the one liners!! "Trust me - Do what I do - Keep your
mouth shut and try not to cry"!
<|_=00=_|>
Let's Go To Prison was a sleeper hit for the 2006 movie season. It came
out in November of that year and really didn't start to air previews or
TV spots until late October, so a lot of people really didn't expect
it. It starred Dax Shepard and Will Arnett. This was the first big gig
for Will Arnett and it really scored for him. This movie really is
entertaining in the since that it always has something going on. The
whole plot was put together very well and had a great form around the
prison lifestyle. Dax Shepard does extremely well as John Lyshitski and
Will Arnett gives a Grade A performance as Nelson Biederman IV. I have
to say that this is a must see for all comedy genre fans.

10/10
