
Saw this film at a film festival.. I liked it a lot. Carly did a great
job as the kid lead in the film. All the characters did their roles
very well. I know Dolphins are very smart, but it must have been
difficult to get three dolphins to perform in co-ordination the way
they did. Story line has a good moral message, and the Dolphins and the
kid are heroes in the end. This is just the kind of film I like to take
my grandkids to see. The photography of the blue Bahama waters and the
dolphins was first class. Makes you want to go there and lay on the
beach. It was great to see Catherine Ross in a film again... although
not a big part, she handled it like a pro. I give this one a 9.
<|_=00=_|>
"Eye of the Dolphin", with a title like that you would expect the film
to be a cheesy family flick or sweet adventure for the little ones.
Well, although it is a film a family can watch and enjoy together and
has dolphins swimming around and jumping about in a beautiful location,
cheesy and sweet are not words I would choose to describe this movie.

Eye of the Dolphin is an eye opening, thoughtful, and engaging
experience. With a lovely cast starring Carly Schroeder, your not so
typical teenage girl. Granted young girls like make-up, boys, and
talking but they are at a stage in their life where the slightest
troubles and tragedies can throw their whole world askew into the dark
abyss of adolescence. 

Although they are young they have an innate ability to relate and
associate themselves with those who they find similar. And who better
to do that than Alyssa, a troubled teen who has just lost her mother,
is being expelled from school, and is forced to live in a new place
where she knows no one especially the father she thought she didn't
have.

This film explores the nature of the father and daughter relationships.
At a time that is the most difficult for the majority because it is at
a period where dad and daughter are the most distant from each other.
Coming from two completely different worlds where both suddenly have to
discover new ways to relate and communicate. 

We are also given snippets of questions and ideas to ponder. How to
stand up for what your passionate about. No matter how estranged, how
important family is. What is valuable to a community? Where is the line
drawn between science and spirituality?

To add to all of this is the element of adventure Alyssa brings to the
screen. Who wouldn't love the ability to communicate with animals and
swim free in the wild with dolphins? There is also one last thing that
ties this all together for the film, its beauty. Not only is it shot on
location in the Bahamas but the cinematography is gorgeous. The colors
draw you into the tropical and underwater world of Alyssa and Rosca her
new dolphin friend.

All in all this is a film that pleasantly surprises and succeeds on
many levels. Most of all when you walk away you will say to
yourself..."I wish I could swim with dolphins!"
<|_=00=_|>
Usually I love films with animals very much, but "Eye of the Dolphin"
disappointed me. The acting of the cast is mediocre and not
interesting. Somehow I just don't like the guy who plays the father.
His personality did not convince that he was a scientist who is
passionate about dolphins. The story moves so slow and the whole thing
was predictable. The ending is not even believable. The dolphins are
cute but somehow it's just nothing different from the way we saw them
at the show. The best thing about this movie is the scenery of the
beach and its wild life. It makes me want to go visit Bahamas one day.

In conclusion, this is not like a horrible movie or anything. It's just
boring and predictable. I watched through the whole thing. I just don't
want to watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
First, for all of you dolphin lovers and anything ocean friendly
related:You will love the message that this film delivers. It
demonstrates that while people may have an interest in learning more
about dolphins and ocean creatures, that interest shouldn't let people
forget about dolphins and take them away from their natural habitats
and ways. This film says that we can learn about the world around us
while preserving its natural beauty and keeping it safe. Second, the
movie has a great story with a great set of actors. It it something
that will get the whole family to sit together in their living room,
take in the movie and have a nice discussion about it afterward. The
kids will love the dolphins,the teens can relate to the main star, the
parents will like laughing at the dad's first attempts at parenting and
everyone will just love the scenes that show what the Bahamas has to
offer. I think that a movie that can get my 16 year old brother's
attention and keep my dad awake is worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, I wasn't looking forward to this film, but I came away
from it really impressed. Even though it's somewhat corny at times, it
deals with some fairly complex issues. There was emotion, drama, and
even some well-placed humor. The film looks great, and has some
impressive performances, especially from some of the more minor
characters. Plus, there were the dolphins. Ahhhh, the dolphins. Very
cute, and very funny, as always. Granted, it's not my kind of movie,
but it's very well made, and definitely enjoyable. I would highly
recommend this to anyone into teen/family dramas, or anyone who's a fan
of dolphins.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all I think this movie gives a better vision on dolphins than
Flipper or Zeus and Roxanne. I think the purpose of the movie is to
tell the people that dolphins are indeed born to be in the wild. Yes
they are very clever and yes they are nice to look at ! Of course
dolphins are dolphins and they are not 100% controllable. You've
probably seen those "American" video clips where tamed orca's go
wild..Orca's are dolphins. 

Now, The point is, the father IS saying to this girl she can't just go
in to the water and swim with the dolphin BECAUSE this is dangerous and
he explains why. But at the end she is communicating in some way with
the dolphin. A wild horse can not be tamed but CAN accept you if it
feels you won't harm him(INSTINCT).Don't forget when we grow up, we
loose or natural instincts and we act by other influences. It's amazing
how children sometimes communicate with animals. 

In the end they do tell everyone dolphins should be in the wild but
than again for science and for understanding there is examination
needed, but this is definitely not the same as an
amusementparkattraction. 

The dolphin story is a sidestory. The story goes about a confused girl
who lost her mother and she didn't know that she had a father. She
learns to deal with mothers death.Her father learns how to be a father.
I think it's a nice film that goes with the free Willy storyline.I am
sorry for my English, this is not my native language.
<|_=00=_|>
Alyssa is a troubled 14-year old. What a surprise. 

Suspended from school a year after her mother has drowned, her
grandmother Lucy, who doesn't want to be called grandma -- doesn't that
explain Alyssa? -- at wit's end, decides to take Alyssa to her father,
James, whom Alyssa thought was dead for years. 

Some family.

He studies dolphin communication at Smith's Point, on the Grand Bahama
Island. James has not known of Alyssa's existence and is clueless about
parenthood. Amazing.

The women arrive at the same time that James may lose his research
operation to a tourist attraction. Convenient. 

Father, daughter, dolphins, and town are on a collision course. Alyssa
and James get encouragement from James's girlfriend and her father.
It's the dolphins who can teach, and Alyssa who discovers how to
listen.

What a pitch. The film is just OK, but it's not surprising it made no
money.
<|_=00=_|>
"Eye Of The Dolphin" has all the features that are tailor made to
result in a successful movie: it's set in a beautiful location (the
Bahamas), it's about animals to appeal to animal lovers, it's
specifically about dolphins and raises the question of whether they
should be held in captivity so it has a certain environmental appeal,
and it has a very pretty young star in Carly Schroeder as Alyssa. While
all those things usually work together well and result in a pretty good
movie, somehow "Eye Of The Dolphin" seemed lacking. The story was in
general just too perfect - a too easy reconciling of a father and
daughter (Adrian Dunbar and Schroeder) who had never met, a too
simplistic set-up of the problem - Dunbar's "Hawk" wants to study the
dolphins while the townspeople in the surrounding area want to use them
to bring in tourists, and the whole angle around Alyssa being able to
communicate with the dolphins just seemed to easily and too quickly
developed to be believable, and the townsfolk are converted to Hawk's
side far too quickly, just because they see Alyssa swimming with the
dolphins? You also come away from this not really knowing much more
about the dolphins than you knew going into it. They seem cute and
playful and friendly and smart. That would have been my impression all
along.

Don't get me wrong. There's nothing in particular "wrong" with this
movie. At the start there was even a sort of edginess around Alyssa
that had some promise for plot development, but that kind of fizzled.
This is fine family fare; kids will enjoy it. It's just that there are
far better and more entertaining movies you can watch with your kids.
(4/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I had absolutely no interest in seeing the film and only did so after I
was able to get some promotional tickets. Though the story sells like a
coming of age tale, it's much better than that. The beginning is a bit
clich√© but once the story begins to take hold it becomes a unique and
enjoyable film experience. 

Carly Schroeder is a fun actress to watch. It will be interesting to
watch her acting career develop in the next few years. George Harris
and Christine Adams are wonderful and tend to steal the scenes without
trying. Jane Lynch is always a welcome addition and adds some class to
the whole film. 

The story, though obviously geared towards younger girls does not
discriminate against age or sex; it's a fun film for anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
(THE SPOILER DOESN'T COME UNTIL THE END, AND IT'S WELL MARKED)

Matthew, you're to be commended for your concern for marine mammal
welfare but your comments miss the mark and are unfair to the movie.

You say: "The film portrays dolphins in the wild as friendly and
sociable with humans, in fact wild dolphins prefer to keep clear of
human contact if possible and can pose a threat."

You seem to be saying, among other things, that you view it as
implausible that a wild dolphin would behave in a friendly manner
towards a human, yet there is much evidence dating back centuries
showing that occasionally dolphins do in fact seek out humans in the
manner depicted in the movie. There is a scientific term for a dolphin
who enters bays and inlets and seeks out human interaction -- "lone
sociable dolphin". You can read an interesting summary of these cases
at http://www.mmc.gov/reports/ contract/pdf/samuelsreport.pdf -- there
are over thirty documented cases. 

As for a "lone sociable dolphin" possibly posing a threat -- Hawk is
clearly worried about that 

when he forbids Alyssa from seeing the dolphin again. He also makes the
point that this behavior is an aberration, not normal, and that a
dolphin doing this is "psychologically unstable". He says "it's bad for
the dolphins, Alyssa", and eventually "somebody gets hurt" -- which is
the other point, and that is that lone sociable dolphins frequently
become a local tourist attraction (it recently happened in Ireland, by
the way), and sometimes things get out of hand to the detriment of the
dolphin. 

The film depicts another aspect of interaction between humans and wild
dolphins when it shows the tour boat captain bringing in tourists, then
feeding the dolphins and letting his tourists swim with them. This type
of "food provisioning habituation" of dolphins by tour operators is
another thing the film, through Hawk, seems to be against. It certainly
doesn't seem to be promoting it.

(BEWARE POSSIBLE SPOILER FOLLOWS)

There's one other point to consider, and this concerns the film's
position on dolphin captivity. At the end of the movie the film
suggests that instead of captivity, it might be possible for dolphins
to be hosted by humans, and interact with them, but not be captive.
What is depicted in the film is very close to the "Third Phase
Alternative" to dolphin captivity developed by Ken Levasseur. In
Levasseur's program, captive dolphins are trained and, over time,
allowed to return to the wild and interact with humans on their terms,
not the humans. This is depicted in the movie as a solution, and thus
the film seems to be taking an enlightened position on captivity
issues. You might want to read Levasseur's "Third Phase" paper. It can
be viewed online at http://whales7.tripod.com/policies/levasseur/
levass3a.html.
