
I walked into this movie expecting something completely different than
what I got. While most people are using this as an excuse to hate this
movie, It made me like it even more. The acting was excellent. Justin
Chatwin and Margarita Levieva are incredibly believable and both seem
to really enjoy the material. I can understand why some people would be
mad. Most people were expecting the teenage horror flick. I am so glad
it wasn't. There was so much depth and beauty to it. In my opinion if
you didn't' like it either you didn't understand it or you are a horror
obsessed teen. The soundtrack also was amazing. I loved everything
about this movie. The promotion(meaning Trailers) could have been done
a lot more differently and better. Still i strongly encourage this
movie to those of you who love deep, thought provoking, beautiful, and
emotional movies!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite all the bad reviews on here, I went to see "The Invisible" and
I was not disappointed. I really loved the underlying drama and self
discovery the movie relayed throughout the story. It made you feel for
both the victim and the villain and feel their pain and sacrifices. It
went past the usual story line of romance and macho heros, but looked
deeper. And above that, my friends and I loved the main character :) He
is very good looking. Apparently the other reviewers don't have the
ability to see past explosions and fake fights in films to see the
depth portrayed in this movie. Definitely give this one a try. It made
my day and made me think very hard about life. Not to sound too
cheesy...
<|_=00=_|>
This is a remake of the Swedish movie 'Den Onsynlige' and there is no
doubt that its worth your time. One of the best movies I have ever
witnessed. There is little to no fear elements in the movie, but it's
such a beautiful story about a ghost that it can't be ignored.

If you think you can figure this movie out by the synopsis above, think
again- 'The Invisible' is a epic story about life, death and the
choices you make during your time on this Earth. For such a bright
film, it's quite Gothic in a sense of the irony the story evokes. In
the end, what really matters is making your life worth something and
taking control of it on your own- the lesson is a great one, and
hopefully this movie will entertain along with inspire. Check it out if
you can.
<|_=00=_|>
This Americanized re-telling of the Swedish chiller-hit "Den Osynlige"
certainly isn't a bad film, but it sadly is just a tad bit too
sentimental and unmemorable. The film describes itself perfectly as
"Ghost" meets "The O.C." The plot deals with supernatural themes and
sincere human emotions, while the characters (and especially the
soundtrack) seem to come straight out of a pretentious high-school TV
series. The protagonists are all beautiful and spoilt teenagers, so
it's pretty difficult to believe they're dealing with life-altering
issues like murder, poetry and spiritual redemption. But nonetheless
"The Invisible" remains an occasionally very engaging and fast-paced
thriller, admirably translated to the screen by genre-expert David S.
Goyer. Nick Powell is a popular high-school student who lives alone
with his overly protective mother ever since his father passed away.
When the local troubled girl Annie and her gang of youthful thugs
wrongfully assume Nick told the cops about Annie's involvement in a
jewelry theft, they beat him up badly and leave him for for dead in the
woods. Slowly approaching the light at the end of the tunnel, Nick
returns as an invisible spirit and painfully witnesses how the police
investigation regarding his disappearance evolves extremely slow and
frustratingly. His last and only chance is to somehow get into contact
with Annie and convince her to correct her mistake with a good deed.
David S. Goyer attempts  fairly successfully, I may add  to add as
few fancy special effects and false scares as possible and puts the
emphasis on the characters and the atmosphere. The characters of Nick
and Annie clearly gain maturity throughout the story and by the end of
the film, they evolved from annoying teenage brats to ... LESS annoying
teenage brats. The handful of sub plots, especially the one focusing on
Nick and his mother, are rather redundant and only make the wholesome
even more irksome. The performances are pretty good, though. Justin
Chatwin ("Taking Lives") and Margarita Levieva are terrific and
actually manage to make their implausible characters convincing and at
least a bit likable near the end. The obtrusive moral of the story as
well as the overly melodramatic twists when reaching the film's finale
are a bit difficult to cope with  especially if you're primarily a fan
of horror and thrillers  but I bet other types of audiences will have
tears when walking out of the theater. "The Invisible" has the same
producers as "The Sixth Sense" and definitely also shares ideas and
plot-aspects with that occult thriller hit. The little kid in the
former saw dead people who didn't really realize they crossed the line
to the other side, whereas Nick damn well realizes he's dead but
there's nobody who sees him. Decent film, at least worth one viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
The invisible is one of those movies that you walk into expecting
something totally different, and the movie doesn't fail. Loosely
following the theme of The Sixth Sense, the Invisible is less darker
and delves into deep character study of the protagonist and the
antagonist all the while providing enough twists to the plot that one
hangs onto his seat anticipating the next twist. Those who couldn't
appreciate this beautiful movie are either too realistic or
action/horror obsessed. Justin Chatwin as Nick Powell is just awesome,
portraying the frustration and desperation with finesse, extracting
sympathy for the 'perfect' teenager. Margarita Levieva as Annie Newton
is also fantastic as her character undergoes transformation and
redemption through the course of the movie. The Invisible dares to
chose a different path from the typical and comes out with flying
colors. If you liked Sixth Sense, you are going to love this one.
<|_=00=_|>
The underlying plot is perhaps do-able if it were presented with good
acting, and believable screenplay, but this one nose dives from the
start and flies lazy boring circles all the way to the pathetic impact
with the ground at the end. The characters are neither believable, nor
well acted. There are a few designated villains, whose only role is to
be villains. An uncaring mother who actually cares. Whoa, exciting
stuff eh? A bad girl who is really OK, it's just that she has a tough
family life. Even for bored suburban kids this is just pathetic. It's
not just plot holes, but the characters themselves who are
unbelievable.

One of the main characters is a boy who only seems to know how to
cringe and whimper. He's supposed to be the protagonists best friend,
but what really pulls or holds them together? Nothing that meets the
eye in the film. He gets a little cut on his hand and falls apart. The
protagonist pays his bills for him like a wimp. His Mom finds out he is
flying to London and he immediately abandons his carefully laid plans
without a squeak. He even throws/gives his ticket away. What a maroon.

What really cooked it for me is when he is standing there while Annie
takes a shower. He isn't even looking at her. OK, fine, no problem with
the idea that the audience doesn't get to see anything, but what 18
year old straight (the film seems to indicate this) male is going to
stand next to a good looking young woman and not even sneak a glance.
Unrealistic? Floridly unrealistic. He doesn't even appear interested.

Or how about when Annie pulls a gun on the cops and manages an
impossible escape, then breaks into the school with the flick of a
knife (no alarms?), and sleeps on a mat in the gymnasium. In fact, she
seems to have the run of the whole set with impunity. And speaking of
running and getting around with ease, how do you do that after a major
gunshot wound to the abdomen? We get a sappy sound track, a sappy
background story about the girl and her little brother, and a long,
drawn out, uninspiring, uninteresting plot with unbelievable characters
and plot holes galore. What's not to like about that? I gave it a 3.
<|_=00=_|>
I really shouldn't get this emotionally involved, but I was angry when
I saw this film. This is not the film I wanted to see when the trailer
broke last October. There it was in big grandiose lettering, "From the
producer of Sixth Sense and the co-writer of Batman Returns." How could
you not be intrigued with this team? I was lead to believe this was
going to be a murder mystery about some guy trying to find out who
killed him and how he was running out of time to solve that mystery. In
the trailer he encounters some old man in a hospital or something, who
explains to our protagonist that if he can solve the mystery of his own
death, then he will come back to life. I was excited to see this movie.
It was supposed to come out at around Christmas. Then something strange
happened. Instead of launching it at the lucrative Christmas season,
the inconspicuously and clandestinely delayed the film for four months.
Instead they dumped it into theaters one week before Spiderman 3 came
out and they edited the hell out of it. No longer did you have a film
about a teen trying solve his own murder, you simply had a film about
some kid who gets murdered. That's it. Nothing else. From there, while
in ghost limbo, he follows around his murderer. Not the two male thugs
who helped perpetuate the murder, but the "mysteriously" hot chick who
kicks him to death. You see, she has a dark past. She is ignored and
possibly abused at home. So naturally she decides the best way to
compensate for this is to beat up guys twice her weight and then of
course kill them. Because, you know, that's what normal disturbed kids
do. They kill people. And this is just the beginning. Because now we
have the "good guy" following his own murderer, and get this, once he
sees her take off her hat and dance at an "E" club, she becomes
illuminated to him. And then he decides that she isn't such a bad girl
after all. Of course. This is the girl that KILLED YOU and because she
has a nice rack, is nice to her baby brother and has had a few
unfortunate bad breaks in life, you fall for her. And then at the end
of the movie, it actually wants us to believe that she is the only one
that can save him. She must go to his hospital room and sit next to him
and then will him back to life. SIGH! The problem with this film is
that it suffers from a lack of everything. It doesn't make sense and I
think that is the studios fault. Maybe they screened the film for an
audience and they didn't like the direction the film was going. So
instead of tweaking it, they butchered it. They took the Sixth Sense
element out of it and what you have left is a Steven Seagal movie with
a ghost. I want to watch the movie I saw in the trailer. Where is that
movie? It's out there somewhere. It has to be. They edited it to make
is something terrible. How terrible.

Here are some other terrible plot points. After the guy is murdered,
his best friend, who is also at the scene, doesn't go to the cops. He
is too afraid of this 5'2, 98 pound girl. He just lets his best friend
rot at the bottom of a sewer or something. I mean, where is the logic
in this film. AT one point, it looked like they were going to introduce
a twit where his best friend might have been involved. But even that
went nowhere. There are literally a half dozen more plot points that
were just silly beyond belief. I really struggle to understand how
shoddy writing like this is allowed in Hollywood. 

This film could have been so much more. The idea and concept and
original trailer were very well done. The film is not.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie because it isn't the same old ghost story you've come
to memorize by now. Unlike the cliché disguised as a ghost flick such
as The Orphanage, which critics loved, this movie broke rules. It
didn't make sense, but that's what made it good. The characters were
memorable, unlike the characters in The Orphanage that are so cliché
they now have their own genres: Apathetic Dad, Angry Mama Bear Mom,
Innocent Child That Can Do No Wrong. The Invisible doesn't use any of
these clichés. It makes its own rules and then breaks its own rules.
The ghosts don't revert to the same old jump-at-you-AHHH! tactics that
we've all seen countless times. They actually try to be more disturbing
than that, by being more realistic and not scary.

I simply don't understand the critics. They trash movies like this that
actually try to be different and hail hopeless clichés like The
Orphanage. I also don't understand people who do the same.

Yes, this movie could be labeled as emo, but you'll see this movie has
a lot to say that you're not going to find in what the critics call
"deep" movies with "moral".

It's not perfect by any means. I could sit here and name countless
technical flaws with the presentation (like the opening scene), but
they're lost to the fact that this movie tried to be different. I'm so
stunned that something actually tried to be different anything else bad
about the movie fell away.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know that I can find a redeeming thing in this movie. I'm
shocked that the guy who gave rebirth to Batman is associated with this
crap. It doesn't answer any question it poses and the dialog is only
slightly better than something written by George Lucas. The characters
don't act the way we expect them to (not in the good twist sort of way,
just the horribly inconsistent sort of way). Motivations are vague at
best. The big shocker is that the evil girl is a beauty in disguise. It
feels like a movie in which the ugly nerd gets a makeover. Like we need
to see her shower? Anything that could have been interesting like the
exploration of what this limbo state in which he exists in is all
about? Including useless characters such as the little brother, the old
dieing dude, even the supposed best friend are weak superfluous dry
icons. There is nothing thrilling about this movie, nothing is
original. Seriously, there isn't a scene that makes sense. Lets take
the body which nobody can find and leave it out in the open in hopes
that it will just be washed down a river and found later? The cops are
portrayed as incompetent at best. Character motivations which are
hinted at but never elaborated; such as the stupid drug dealing
hottie's father who was a cop and "it's a long story" which isn't
explained somehow probably has something to do with the death of her
mother? It's possible they just edited this thing to death removing all
the exposition which would have helped make sense of this convoluted
story. This isn't a failed ambitious attempt, it's a lazy half-ass
attempt to be profound. I imagine anybody from the EMO generation loves
this movie. By the end every scene is laughable, multiple people are
going into this half dead world and communicating with people on life
support. I'm glad I downloaded this, I'm sick of paying for crap
movies, when will Hollywood get it?
<|_=00=_|>
David Goyer's "The Invisible", a remake of a film I have not yet seen,
and a rip-off of Hiroshi Teshigahara's "Pitfall", kicks off with an
interesting premise that it does not remain faithful to. A young
student is murdered by a trio of arrogant classmates with
pseudo-cynical attitudes. After they bury him in the woods, he rises
from his own damaged body and walks amongst them as an invisible man.
We see him, but they don't. This guy can't communicate with them or
interact with material objects (at least not initially), but he can
hang about and eavesdrop on their screwed-up lives. Obviously, he
learns why he was killed , and he eventually gets to see some justice.
The problem with this premise is that our hero does not drive the
story. He witnesses it. Because he can't be heard or seen, he's an
observer who comments on what's happening. His commentary is not
without interest, but after the forty-five minute mark, the premise
collapses. Goyer must have thought so, too, because he starts breaking
the rules he's established. Some characters become aware of our hero's
existence, and some characters start to hear him. As the authorities
get closer to solving his "murder", there's a murky understanding that
this is why our hero is becoming more visible. In the end, it doesn't
work. The film's first half hour is hypnotic, and I felt sure that I
was in for a treat, but the set-up bites off more than its third act
can chew, and the result is a very disjointed, unsatisfying experience.
