
Regardless of how faithful The Spiderwick Chronicles movie is to the
original stories by Tony DiTerlizzi and Holly Black, the film is
tremendously entertaining and thankfully resolute. Unlike the recent
flock of fantasy epics including The Golden Compass and The Seeker,
which conclude feeling wholly unsatisfactory due to an abrupt
resolution that suggests further films in the series, The Spiderwick
Chronicles easily stands alone as a complete story. With sensationally
mirthful creature designs and likable human characters, topped with
state-of-the-art special effects, The Spiderwick Chronicles is another
big win for Paramount and a high bar for family films of 2008.

The moment the Grace family moves into the dilapidated Spiderwick
Estate, strange things begin to happen. Jared (Freddie Highmore) is a
curious, adventurous boy who quickly seeks out the hidden
cob-web-covered remains of great great uncle Arthur Spiderwick's
laboratory. He unleashes a mysterious force when he locates a field
guide full of the secrets of the magical creatures that inhabit the
forest surrounding the mansion. His twin brother Simon is calm and
reserved and very much the intellectual one, but is rapidly drawn into
the fantastical world of faeries and goblins. Older sister Mallory and
their mom are harder to convince, but after the almighty and ruthless
ogre leader Mulgarath (Nick Nolte) begins to attack the home, everyone
must band together to combat the hordes of goblins and ensorcelled
creatures that lurk outside.

The Spiderwick Chronicles is, on the surface, an alluringly delightful
fantasy that blends the very best of character designs, both human and
CG, into a story that effortlessly engrosses without stumbling out of
the realm of suspended disbelief. Everything within the story makes
sense as it unfolds, and we don't question why certain things are
feasible  because as the world of goblins and boggers is defined, we
have no reason not to become completely immersed in the fantasy.
Director Mark Waters doesn't rush the process of illustrating the
multitude of magic and myths, and doesn't overload us with jargon that
we couldn't possibly comprehend. The pacing is fantastic for a family
film, and doesn't fall into the three hour trap that The Lord of the
Rings sets.

The children have more appeal and charismatic personalities than those
of the Narnia kids, and the creatures are more lovable and waggish than
those in Harry Potter. Each computer animated monstrosity and cuddly
ally beautifully blend into the forested environment, and never reach a
level of utter annoyance. The designs themselves are ingenious, with a
mix of gelatinous abominations like Redcap, the angry henchman goblin,
a furry old hamster-like man (Thimbletack, voiced by Martin Short) who
speaks in rhyme, and a mighty griffin that soars above the picturesque
clouds. Eloquently wispy faeries and an enormous horned ogre are also
substantial parts of the Spiderwick mythology, and many other exciting
creatures frequent this action-filled fairyland.

The Spiderwick Chronicles undeniably makes fantasy and magic fun. While
a few scenes of unnecessary predicaments involving the children's
divorced parents could have been cut, the film manages not to be overly
preachy, even with its many positive messages and abounding morals.
With pleasing characters, family-friendly magical adventure and a
mind-bogglingly fantastical world of faeries, goblins and ogres, The
Spiderwick Chronicles is extraordinarily entertaining fantasy fun.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
I work at IMAX theaters, and we showed an advanced staff screening
tonight. Having been surrounded by posters and trailers for Spiderwick
Chronicles for months, I was already sick of the film before I even saw
it. But I went into it with an open mind, and found myself pleasantly
surprised. The plot centers around a broken family that moves into an
old house that has been in the family for years, in hopes of "starting
over". Freddie Highmore plays two roles, twin brothers Jarod and Simon,
and does an impressive job at keeping the two personalities distinct
and different. Jarod, the angsty protagonist of the film, discovers a
book (titled, the Spiderwick Chronicles) written by his late great
uncle depicting in explicit detail the creatures of a "hidden world"
all around us. Jarod reads the book, and in the process awakens an evil
Ogre and a horde of goblins hell bent on obtaining the knowledge hidden
within the book to destroy mankind, and creature-kind as well. The
pacing is decent, and the acting works well within the context of the
film. Oddly, it's the adult actors that deliver the lamest lines, as
they seem profoundly out of place in this otherwise fantasy and child
actor filled film. The CGI effects were well implemented too, with
various characters and creatures popping up here and there to provide
comedic relief, and often, pivitol plot development. The various
supporting characters do a great job of keeping things moving, most
notable being Jarod and Simons sister, Mallory, played by Sarah Bolger,
who delivers a great performance. Having never read the books, I can't
make any comparisons, but what I saw in the film I liked quite a bit.
Not the most complex of movies, and there are some glaring plot holes
here and there, but overall, it holds up pretty well, albeit some wonky
script writing here and there.
<|_=00=_|>
The Spiderwick Chronicles is based upon the books of the same name by
Tony DeTerlizzi and Holly Black. The film centers around a mother and
her three children who move into a mysterious and creepy new house
pretty much in the middle of nowhere. The one son Jared who is the main
character in the film, finds a book written by the previous owner of
the house and Jared soon discovers that this is a magical yet very
dangerous book that a lot of goblins and little creatures are after,
but with the help of his twin brother, his older sister and some
friendly creatures he gets the book to safety and also protects himself
and his family from the evil monsters that want the book to do harm.
Ever since The Lord Of The Rings and Harry Potter films have done so
well, filmmakers are taking other fantasy books and turning them into
feature films as well. The majority of them that have been released
over the past few years I have not seen because for one thing they did
not look appealing to me at all and also because of bad word of mouth
and reviews. I wasn't sure what I would think of The Spiderwick
Chronicles, but to my surprise I thought it was pretty good. The film
is aimed at a family audience even though some young children might be
afraid of some scenes, but this is a film that I think kids will
absolutely love and there is enough here for the grownups as well. The
story sounds simple enough, but it is enhanced by a lot of creative
creatures and imaginative things going on. The young cast each did
their own and carried the film and even though I don't usually like
computer generated effects in films, I didn't feel it was overdone here
just for the sake of showing what today's new wonderful technology can
do and I really appreciated that the film didn't go overboard with
that. The running time moves along fairly briskly and the film is
involving and interesting from the start and keeps it's energy and
charm throughout the running time. There were a few repeated story
patterns and clichés in the script, but there were also a lot of
surprises and new takes on things, so that can be forgiven. When
looking at a film like this at a child you would like the magic,
imagination and the story that is woven in front of you with
interesting characters, environments and a grand sense of storytelling
that can make the make believe into a fun and entertaining film. This
is all captured very well here and works as a fairy tale for kids 8 to
whatever age. A creative enough story helped by good film-making and an
eye for what kids and adults love about these movies make this film a
generally good and above average family fantasy film of the past few
years.
<|_=00=_|>
This is being compared to Harry Potter? That is completely ridiculous.
Some idiotic critics are saying "This movie isn't like Harry Potter,
therefore, it's terrible" This movie is an amazing example of a fantasy
movie, and one that doesn't cut much out, unlike Harry Potter. This
movie has great acting, especially by the dual-part playing Freddie
Highmore, who loses his British accent quite convincingly. Also, Sarah
Bolger and Mary-Louise Parker do superb jobs with their acting
considering it's mostly a four-person cast. (Excluding voice overs) The
special effects alone are amazing. If you don't like this movie, you
have to admit, the special effects were amazing. If there were a
sequel, I would most definitely see it as long as it has the same
actors, special effects team, and director.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to a UK preview tonight and this completely took me by surprise. A
brilliant fantasy adventure which retains it's dignity and doesn't sell
out for a cute Disney style box office attack.

The issues in it were quite good and realistic and it wasn't
necessarily 'happy ever after' in the end. The scripting and the style
of the piece reminded me of 'The Princess Bride'- although this is more
of an action adventure than a comedy.

Well worth seeing, and there doesn't seem to have been much 'hollywood
tailoring' such as there was with the Golden compass and Narnia...

As to the monsters / fairies- they were very well done indeed, quite
believable considering they were computer generated.

Well worth seeing, but I have the feeling it won't get as much
publicity as the usual run of the mill children's movie...

Why do I keep saying children's movie when I am 34?
<|_=00=_|>
I truly wasn't expecting much from this movie goon in but it was the
only family movie available to watch with my 5 and 3 year old. I
figured that because it wasn't a cartoon I'd have to deal with
squirming bottoms and talking. But to my amazement the movie was not
only entertaining to both of my boys (NO SQUIRMING!!!) both my husband
and I loved it. My husband wouldn't even get a refill on the
popcorn----and believe me that doesn't happen often!!!! I have nothing
negative to say about the film. Some might think it's a little too
scarry for younger kids but neither one of mine were scarred. A couple
of times I had to explain some things to my 5 year old. The head goblin
is kind of scarry looking; but not too bad.
<|_=00=_|>
Although The Spiderwick Chronicles did fall short in comparison to
other films in the same genre, it did offer some fun entertainment for
the entire family.

Being a fan of most fantasy novels and films, I had the wonderful
opportunity to read through the entire series last year and was
actually looking forward to its adaptation on the big screen.

What surprised me the most was actually the length of the film. It was
fairly short (90 minutes) and I felt that the producers made a huge
mistake by attempting to cram all five books into one film instead of
dividing them into separate features. I had recognized a few of the
scenes from the books, but overall it seemed very rushed and excluded
many of the series most exciting moments. Any fan of the books would
probably be disappointed in the way the series was handled and
executed.

As for the rest of film, I thought it was well done. The CGI continues
to be to focal point in most of these types of family films and the
producers spent a great time with its detail and design. The fairies
looked neat, the goblins were frightening, and the big bad ogre looked
well big and bad.

Overall, I would say this film would make for a great matinée on a
Sunday with the kids. There are several moments that may scare children
under the age of five, but otherwise it should appeal to children of
all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to all those 'know it alls' who say the book is better
then the movie, so therefore, this movie isn't any good. This was a
GREAT movie! Obviously you can't fit a whole book into a kid length
movie - so they do the best they can and this was WILDLY successful! It
was a fun, suspenseful movie that engages you from the beginning. I
went with my 9 year old daughter and she LOVED IT! I haven't seen such
a good children's movie in a long, long time! It's a MUST SEE! If your
child is easily scared then this may not be the movie for them. While I
don't view it as a scary movie - the goblins and action might be
startling for sensitive kids.
<|_=00=_|>
Upon moving into the run-down Spiderwick Estate with their mother, twin
brothers Jared and Simon Grace, along with their sister Mallory, find
themselves pulled into an alternate world full of faeries and other
creatures.

I've made up a theory: People who have read books that are turned into
movies will be more harsh to judge the films unlike people who see
movies without reading the book. I think this theory is right. I was
disappointed by Harry Potter 5 at first, but watching it now for a year
later and nearly forgetting about the book, I found it the best in the
series.

The same might as well go with this film. I was disappointed. If you
don't know, this film is based on 5 books. However, the movie ignores
the 4th book, which is probably because of budget issues and/or limited
running time. Still, I can't help but complain. There could've been
more creative production designs to see, more action, and more magical
creatures.

Apart from that, I felt that the film was well put together, especially
the fact that they skipped a lot in the books. The special effects are
very good, as well as the action scenes. I also may feel this film
pushed the PG rating. It certainly is not as intense as Harry Potter 3
but there might be about 2 to 3 scenes that could make this film a
PG-13 rating.

The performances here are decent, although not captivating. The film
may be a bit fast paced, if you asked me. Overall, this is a decent
adaption to another fantasy book. If you have read the books, you might
be disappointed. If you have not, enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Spiderwick Chronicles is a dark delight of Harry Potter-type goblins,
ghouls, and griffins with violence enough to make it a howler for the
nine year old but a sleepless night for the seven.

Arthur Spiderwick decades ago wrote a private field guide to faeries, a
much sought after tome by gremlins who hate them.

Besides the usual CGI gymnastics is the now common
dad-is-gone-by-divorce-and-mom-isfrazzled motif, along with the usual
nobody-believes-me-but-I-can-see-them suspense builder. The production
design of the old mansion is Psycho-worthy, and the ever serviceable
James Horner provides the right chilling music.

Not to be missed, however, is the shape-shifting leader of the baddies
played by Nick Nolte, whose freaked out visage eclipses the shock of
his infamous California mug shot.
