
Just came out of a sneak preview for this film. It had me laughing
every 30 secs. The ending was so funny that tears were rolling down my
face and it had me wishing I hadn't bought that large coke. There are
definitely some lulls, but, overall, highly entertaining. The movie
lets Steve Carell have a chance to shine after stealing the spotlight
from both Jim Carrey in "Bruce Almighty" and Will Ferrell "Anchorman:
The Legend of Ron Burgendy" in their movies. Paul Rudd is hilarious as
always. I love that he can be so funny in these broad comedies and
continues to work in indie dramas (like P.S.). I think that Seth Rogen
should be getting more work, because he so freaking talented and
engaging. Leslie Mann also had some incredibly funny moments. I highly
recommend it for those who just want to laugh like a maniac. However,
if you're easily offended, don't see this movie. If you're a rabid
feminist, don't see this movie. And, please, not matter what, even if
you think you're one of those "hip" parents, don't take your kids to
this movie. Sure, you should let your teens go see this movie, just
don't watch it with them. It would make for some incredibly awkward
moments.
<|_=00=_|>
In the previews, "The 40 Year-Old Virgin" boasts the image of another
immature sex romp about a 40-ish Lonely Guy who suddenly feels the urge
to do the deed simply because he hasn't. Too many past bad experiences
have dampened his enthusiasm to the point that he avoids women
completely. And then the unexpected happens: he falls in love. What's
more, there's a movie out about it, and it's called "The 40 Year-old
Virgin."

The virgin of the title is Andy Stitzer (Steve Carell), who is indeed
40, works as an employee at an electronics store and collects vintage
action figures, which are displayed all throughout his nice bachelor
pad for all to see. He has a lovely home theater system and watches
"Survivor" with his two kind elderly neighbors. He's a pretty
picturesque definition of the Lonely Guy who needs to go out more and
talk to more women.

Now here's the real novelty with this picture: it does the impossible
task of actually dealing with its subject matter in a cute, mature
fashion. This is a movie that could very easily have turned out a lot
differently in the hands of a more transparent team of filmmakers. It
could have descended into endless sex gags and jokes but thankfully
this picture never stoops that low. Sure there are sex jokes here and
there and even a few prods are aimed at the gay community (which are,
in no way, meant to be taken as gay-bashing), as two of the characters
exchange insults towards each other while playing a video game ("Mortal
Kombat: Deception," no less - the ultimate testosterone-driven
fightfest for guys).

As someone who is rapidly approaching 20, collects McFarlane Toys
action figures AND has himself never done the deed, I found this film
amusing and touching in a way that a similar-themed movie could never
have been. I was able to relate to the character of Andy Stitzer more
than anyone in the theater because I was the only teenager present at
this showing; everyone else looked like they were all past 40. A bit
arrogant, I know, but would you ("you" is italicized) still be able to
relate if you were the only teen present at an afternoon screening of
"The 40 Year-Old Virgin"?

Of course Andy has never had sex and wakes up everyday with "morning
rise" (don't ask), and he's pressured by his buddies to try outlandish
methods of gaining the attention of the opposite sex. When it's first
discovered Andy is a virgin, at 40, his three buddies and fellow
electronics store coworkers David (Paul Rudd), Jay (Romany Malco) and
Cal (Seth Rogen) all at first assume he's gay because he's never been
with a woman, which couldn't be any further from the truth. The truth
is, Andy loves women, but past traumatic experiences (revealed
hilariously one after the other in a flashback sequence) have put him
on the sidelines for good.

David, Jay, and Cal each embark on a mission to get Andy laid, so help
them all. But you know that such escapades will only end in disaster,
as proved by one date with Nicky (Leslie Mann), who puts Andy through
the worst drunk-driving experience I think anyone would not want to go
through and he has a rather creepy encounter with Beth (Elizabeth
Banks), the pretty girl who works in the bookstore and is eventually
revealed to be a total sex fiend.

Things brighten up for Andy when he meets Trish (Catherine Keener), the
friendly woman who works at a store across the street that sells stuff
on eBay for people. Hmmm. And with that nice-looking collection of
action figures, you can go figure that in the end a large financial
payoff awaits him, that is if he can ever "do the deed."

At last, this is the sex romp we've been waiting for. It deals with a
very real issue a lot of Lonely Guys probably go through, not that
anything is wrong with being a virgin but let's look at the big
picture: How many of us "Lonely Guys" want to be a lonely guy forever?
The important thing we're taught in this picture is that Lonely Guy
must be himself. I don't think he needs to go through body waxing like
Andy does (which is side-splitting to be honest, and according to this
website and various other news articles, was in fact real, and so was
the blood on Carell's shirt afterward).

"The 40 Year-Old Virgin" was directed by Judd Apatow and co-written by
himself and Carell, which originated as a skit that starred Carell.
Carell is sweet and human, as his character is not some layabout who
approaches this thing with his eyes shut. This is probably one of the
most intelligent romps I've ever seen and is not offensive (a whole
lot) because its characters are treated with dignity and respect. Even
Carell's buddies, who pass off bad advice to cover up their own
relationship insecurities, can be related to on a fundamental level.

The way "The 40 Year-Old Virgin" plays out is indeed funny in the end,
but I'll leave that up to you, the viewer, to observe. Surely, if
anyone can go through the things Andy does and still have the strength
to attract a woman as sexy as Catherine Keener, then it's true: It is
never too late!

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't laughed this hard at a movie in a long time. I got to go to
an advance screening, and was thrilled because I had been dying to see
it. I had tears in my eyes from laughter throughout a lot of the movie.
The audience all shared my laughter, and was clapping and yelling
throughout most of the movie.

Kudos to Steve Carrell(who I had already been a fan of). He proves in
this movie his tremendous talent for comedy. He has a style that I
haven't seen before. And Catherine Keener is excellent as always. Thank
God there wasn't a cameo from Will Ferrell(love him, but saw him too
much this summer).

There were parts of comedic genius in this movie. Partly thanks to
Carrell, and partly thanks to the writing(also Carrell). The waxing
scene and the speed dater with the "obvious problem" were absolutely
hysterical.

I will definitely go see '40 Year Old Virgin' when it's released. My
advice: go to see it for huge laughs and an incredibly enjoyable movie
on top of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Carell has made a career out of portraying the slightly odd
straight guy, first on 'The Daily Show', and then in various supporting
roles. In Virgin, Carell has found a clever and hilarious script that
perfectly capitalizes on his strengths. Carell plays Andy Stitzer, a
middle aged man living a quiet, lonely life. Andy is a little odd, but
in an awkward nice guy sort of way. One night, while socializing with
his co-workers for the first time, Andy accidentally reveals that he is
a virgin. His co-workers, David (Paul Rudd), Jay (Romany Malco), and
Cal (Seth Rogen) initially tease Andy about his situation. But it's
clear that all three have a certain respect for the decent human being
that Andy is, and they resolve to help him out by assisting him in
ending his virginity. And so begins Andy's quest into adulthood. Andy
is the quintessential innocent, and the bulk of the humor derives from
his naivet√© to the situations he finds himself in throughout the film.
Some of the humor is crude gross out stuff, but most of it is just well
done intelligent comedy. In addition, I found some parts of the film
actually pretty touching as Andy finds himself developing both romantic
relationships and friendships perhaps for the first time in his life.
I'm not trying to portray the movie as a love story or a drama; it's a
rolling in your seats comedy. Still, every good comedy I have ever seen
contains enough heart for you to care about the characters. A good
comparison would be 'The Wedding Crashers' from earlier this summer.
Virgin has a similar humor, but is perhaps a bit more vulgar in some of
its jokes. I particularly loved the ending of the film, which I thought
was a perfect way to end the flick. Without giving anything away, it
reminded me of 'Something About Mary'. Very light and fun; it leaves
you laughing and smiling, which is exactly how you should feel when you
finish a comedy. I would highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
I got a free pass to a preview of this movie last night and didn't know 
what to expect. The premise seemed silly and I assumed it would be a 
lot of shallow make-fun-of-the-virgin humor. What a great surprise. I 
laughed so hard I cried at some of the jokes. This film is a must see 
for anyone with an open mind and a slightly twisted sense of humor.

OK.....this is not a movie to go to with your grandmother (Jack 
Palance?) or small children. The language is filthy, the jokes are 
(very) crude, and the sex talk is about as graphic as you'll find 
anywhere. What's amazing, however, is that the movie is still a sweet 
love story. My girlfriend and I both loved it.

Steve Carell is terrific, but (like The Office) the supporting cast 
really makes the film work. All of the characters have their flaws, but 
they also have depth and likability. Everyone pulls their weight and 
the chemistry is perfect.

I can't wait to get the DVD. I'm sure it will be up there with Office 
Space for replays and quotable lines.
<|_=00=_|>
Something about the 40 Year Old Virgin and the other comedy hit of the
summer, Wedding Crashers, is similar, but they are two different films
in some respects. Both are romantic comedies that have that kind of
over-the-top, crazy sensibility that keeps the teens and guys in their
20's along with the usual dating crowd to go see the films. Both have
some sort of formula to the stories as well. But by the end of the 40
Year Old Virgin, I think I found overall it was more satisfying than
'Crashers'. Although one can guess where the relationship story with
Steve Carrell's character Andy and Catherine Keener's character Trish
will go to, it isn't too basic for one to figure out like with
Crashers, and the characters both leading and supporting are realistic,
more rounded than most of the one-dimensional or unexplained people in
the other. And, perhaps, it may also depend on how much you identify
(or just find the lunacy) in both.

The thing is some people may go into The 40 Year Old Virgin not knowing
Steve Carrell as well as Owen Wilson or Vince Vaughn, as Carrell has
built up his cult status on The Daily Show (one of my favorite shows on
now) and in small but unforgettably riotous roles in Anchorman and
Bruce Almighty. This is his first starring role, but it's not treated
like some third rate vehicle. He and co-writer/director Judd Apatow
treat the character of Andy with a certain level of sincerity that
keeps the audience on his side all the way, even early on as he talks
to his action figures while re-painting them. It's also a tricky line
to walk on- in lessor hands this could be no more or less entertaining
than the Lackluster 40 Days and 40 Nights with Josh Hartnett (also
about sexual dysfunction). As the title suggests, Andy is the 40 year
old who is like the nice guy friend with still a little Pee-Wee Herman
in him (the opening over the credits of his his apartment is hilarious,
a good sign).

So, his friends (among them Paul Rudd, Romany Mancoy, Seth Rogen, all
very good comic foils) try and devise different strategies and tips to
finally break the sort of curse over Andy's head to pop his cherry, so
to speak. He almost gets with a overly drunk woman, he almost gets with
a freaky kind of girl, and almost with his own boss (Jane Lynch, also
very funny in the mockumentaries) as a (explitive) buddy. But this soon
all starts to fade as he gets into a meaningful relationship with
Trish, who works across the street from him. As they build on a
relationship not based at all on sex, one might worry that the plot
gear of "how is he going to tell her such and such" might get in the
way of the comedy. It doesn't. In fact, if anything, Carrell and the
cast build on it to a very high degree. For practically an hour and a
half of the film's two hour length, there was barely a moment I wasn't
laughing, whether big or small.

The big laughs though make up for not just any kind of formalities with
the plot, or one or two little stray stories (the fellow co-workers
have their own relationship problems as well, Rudd's being the
funniest). The big laughs come through because of Carrell's reactions,
and that the people around him can either back up with their own sort
of humor/charm, or that its with some truth. Keener gives a very good
performance and makes it so that there is a genuine spirit to their
relationship (and, un-like 'Crashers', there isn't as much that doesn't
make sense character wise). For someone like me who loves it when a
comedian can get laughs just from the way he looks on his face, Carrell
gets very high points here. And like with a Farrelly brothers movie,
the more raunchy or outrageous scenes are done with total absurdity;
the 'waxing' scene (which was done for real, by the way) and the sort
of Aquarius musical number towards the very end of the film (the way it
comes out at first is a total, uproarious surprise). But if you're
willing not to get offended by it, there's more where that came from.
This is one of the funniest films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Carell comes into his own in his first starring role in the 40
Year Old Virgin, having only had supporting roles in such films as
Bewitched, Bruce Almighty, Anchorman, and his work on the Daily Show,
we had only gotten a small taste of the comedy that Carell truly makes
his own. You can tell that Will Ferrell influenced his "comedic air"
but Carell takes it to another level, everything he does is innocent,
lovable, and hilarious. I would not hesitate to say that Steve Carell
is one of the next great comedians of our time.

The 40 Year Old Virgin is two hours of non-stop laughs (or 4 hours if
you see it twice like I did), a perfect supporting cast and great leads
charm the audience through the entire movie. The script was perfect
with so many great lines that you will want to see the movie again just
to try to remember them all. The music fit the tone of the movie great,
and you can tell the director knew what he was doing.

Filled with sex jokes, some nudity, and a lot of language, this movie
isn't for everyone but if you liked the Wedding Crashers, Anchorman, or
any movie along those lines, you will absolutely love The 40 Year Old
Virgin.
<|_=00=_|>
this is one of the funnier films i've seen. it had it's crude moments,
but they were full of charm. it's Altmanesque screenplay, brilliant
physical humour, and relaxed friendships were a pleasure to watch, and
a slice of life most of us can relate to. and i can say with a measure
of honesty that i was afraid for Steve Carell's nipple..i truly was.
surprisingly, this is a good-natured, unabashed comedy that is
essentially about love, and the many relationships we may find
ourselves in along the way. Catherine Keener was terrific as Trish, and
all of Steve Carell's friends were flawed but amiable, and so much fun.
the idea that they suspected that Carell was a serial killer is a
hilarious metaphor for a forty-year old virgin. but the simple truth
was that he wanted to be in love first. original, charming, and very
funny. highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
All right, here's the deal: if you're easily offended then you might
want to stay far, far away from this one. There are some painfully
funny moments in the movie, but I probably blushed about as much as I
laughed. Actually, I probably blushed MORE than I laughed. And if I
wasn't literally blushing on the outside, then I was blushing on the
inside. If there is absolutely nothing in this movie that embarrasses
you then you simply have no shame. Whether that's a badge of honor or
not is in the eye of the beholder I suppose.

I will not deny that I laughed quite a bit, but this is a movie that I
simply cannot give a blanket recommendation due to its subject matter.
If I were to say, "This movie is hilarious, go check it out!" and some
sweet, little old church-going lady heads to the theater and has a
heart-attack during one of the graphically explicit sex situations,
well, that's just something I don't need on my conscience.

So how raunchy is it? Hmm, try about 100 times worse than The Wedding
Crashers. Honestly. My mom would've walked out during the first scene.
I feel it's my duty to at least warn you of what to expect.

There is some cleverly intelligent comedy here, but that's what I come
to expect from the man (Judd Apatow) who had a hand in both Freaks and
Geeks and Undeclared. I'm all for making fun of Michael McDonald; the
only man whose hair and beard are white enough to give Kenny Rogers a
run for his money. Paul Rudd proclaiming, "If I hear Ya Mo Be There one
more time I'll Ya Mo burn this place down," is hilarious, but it's one
of those things that the majority of the audience won't appreciate.

And when we see a quick 3-second flashback of Steve Carrell singing
along to Cameo's Word Up, I laughed for a good two minutes after the
joke was over, whereas most everybody chuckled and then forgot about
it.

Strangely enough, despite the raunch, there's an admirable moral to the
story. The movie doesn't portray Carrell as some freaky loser just
because he's a virgin. He's really portrayed as a likable, admirable
character. Sure, he's a little weird. After all, he has a framed Asia
poster, "more videogames than an Asian kid," and a toy collection that
features the Million Dollar Man's BOSS, but we're never led to believe
that there's actually anything wrong with the fact that he's a virgin.
As odd as it may seem, there's a bit of an "it's OK to wait" message.

But man, oh man, please be warned that this pushes its R rating about
as far as it can go. That was certainly Apatow's intention. According
to him, he just let some of the guys (particularly Rogen and Malco)
improv and talk the way they normally talk, all in an effort to find
lots of new ways to be dirty. If you can handle that or talk that way
yourself, then you'll love the movie.

I'm not a big fan of excessive profanity and sex jokes. I find that
subtle, clever humor is much more entertaining than about 200 uses of
the f-word or fratboy sex discussions. But that's me. Like I said,
there are some absolutely hysterical moments here, but you have to ask
yourself if they're worth sitting through one of the most vulgar movies
you're likely to ever see at the theater. I just don't know how
interested most women will be in what's discussed by men while playing
poker. Honestly ladies, you might not want to know. If you've ever been
curious why some girls think guys are gross, well, this gives you a
good idea.

There you go - my humble, honest take on what to expect. Be that your
guide. It definitely should not be seen with your Sunday School class,
mama, grandmama, any family members of the opposite sex, children of
any age, or anybody who is easily offended by excessive profanity or
explicit sex discussion. If you'd see it with any of the above then you
apparently do not have any concept of what it means to be
uncomfortable.
<|_=00=_|>
Only once in a while do we get an R-rated comedy that gets everyone's
time and attention. It's an even rarer case when the critics will like
it. I just came back from The 40 Year-Old Virgin and I can honestly
say, it was one of the biggest laughs of my life. I went to a 10:35
showing and every row was filled. Not only that, everyone laughed their
ass off the whole time through. It's two hours of non-stop laughing. I
dare you to see this film and to not laugh.

The plot is simple. A man is forty years old and he is a virgin. Yet,
behind this simple, five second joke, we are given a deep, complex
story that is not only one of the funniest you'll ever witness, but has
genuine lessons behind it. Steve Carell stars as Andy Stitzer, The 40
Year-Old Virgin. We have known Steve Carell, as, in my opinion, one of
the best scene thieves of all time. Stealing hilarious scenes from
Bruce Almighty and especially Anchorman, Steve Carell has come a long
way, as finally, and proudly, is given his moment to shine as the star.
No one will forget his name once they witness this pervasively funny,
gut-busting, roll-in-the-aisle hilarious comedy.

The beauty about the film is it isn't 100% stupid. The brilliant
writing of Judd Apatow and Steve Carell genuinely has purpose and it's
not just one hell of a story to tell. Behind the crudeness and vulgar
non-stop ride of the film comes an important lesson to be learned.
Although not presented in the best way possible, the film gives us more
than a purely enjoyable time. Its gut-busting attitude will have you
laughing the whole time through, while we simultaneously see the real
life struggles of people like Andy and his fellow co-workers. The end
couldn't have been better. Not only does it deliver what we are
promised but it gives one of the most memorable finishing numbers a
comedy has ever seen. It would have been perfect if there was Vince
Vaughn and Owen Wilson in there cameoing somehow, but you can't win 'em
all, now can you.

Finally, I think as Roger Ebert put it, Catherine Keener gives an
unexplainable perfect performance as Trish, the one woman Andy has his
heart truly for. Not only does she also give us laughs but it is crazy
to see how brightly she fuels the story. She was cast perfected in the
role and her and Carell have terrific, not to mention, hilarious
chemistry on screen.

Canadian ratings-wise, once again, Ontario slips away with a 14A, while
British Columbia, Alberta, and Manitoba all slapped The 40 Year-Old
Virgin with an 18A. The same thing happened with Four Brothers, in my
opinion, the second best film of the year, and I can honestly say that
I love Ontario more and more so for that. To all you fellow teenagers
out there in the States: Good luck sneaking in! 

Overall, Steve Carell gives one of the funniest performances I've ever
seen and just about everyone in the cast distributes to the non-stop
laughter. Everyone will love the 40 Year-Old Virgin this summer and I
encourage everyone to see it as fast as humanly possible. It is the
best comedy of the year, hands down. It beats all over The Longest
Yard, The Wedding Crashers, and of course Apatow and Carell's last
memorable comedy, Anchorman.

It is a comic masterpiece and deserves the remarkable amount of praise
from the critics who have been loving it. Every single one of my
favourite critics loved it and it deserves a spot on the IMDb Top 250
right away. Steve Carell is a huge star. Watch one of the brightest
ones of the summer right now.

My Rating: 9/10 

Objectively ¬ñ 9/10 

Subjectively ¬ñ 10/10 

Eliason A.
