
This is an urban fairy tale. If you go to AUGUST RUSH with the
intention of poking holes in it, you can find little glitches and logic
flaws. On the other hand, if you are looking for a movie that will sing
to your soul (and show you some beautiful eye candy as a bonus), look
no farther. The casting director and cinematographer should each get an
award. This gem of a movie takes us on a journey, and the people we
meet along the way are well worth the ticket price. 

A trio of beautiful performances form the heart of this film, although
the secondary characters are also crisply compelling. A day after
seeing it, I find that specific shots of their faces still glow in mind
like pieces of a mosaic. And the music is a genuine addition, as it
should be in a film of this kind. I was genuinely moved.
<|_=00=_|>
I totally enjoyed this movie. The scenes have an appealing fantasy
element, while at the same time, the plot manages to explore
true-to-life human situations such as bullying of those who are
different.

The music is incredible, and mostly consists of original scores. It
includes gospel, rock and classical, seamlessly integrated in a new way
that works extremely well.

The plot is somewhat predictable and possibly a little "sappy", but
those elements are easily overcome by the moment-to-moment execution of
the story. Think of a modernized "Oliver" with Robin Williams as Fagin
to a group of homeless, musically talented kids...plus extra elements
of romance and intrigue, and you will have a bit of an idea about this
movie.

The three main characters are all physically "beautiful" people who
manage to convey the story with a minimum of dialog. Additional
characters, including Terrence Howard as the social worker, Jamia
Simone Nash as the young girl in the church choir, and Leon G. Thomas
as the young boy who befriends the musical prodigy, contribute strong
performances and pizazz.

Someone sitting near me stated it is impossible for even a prodigy to
learn music so quickly and at such a young age... However, this is not
true. Check out Jay Greenberg, a young music student currently studying
at Julliard. In the end, this movie is at least an endorsement and
celebration of the significance of music in our lives and at most a
transcendent, fun experience to watch.

I rarely like to see any movie more than once, but definitely want to
see this again. Take the familyÂ…this is for children, teens and adults.
Don't miss it is my recommendation!
<|_=00=_|>
If you love it, you'll LOVE it. If not, then the most you'll probably
give it is an 'ok'. The movie requires the audience to have a somewhat
willful suspension of reality as there are some slightly mystic themes
interwoven in the storyline. But as the movie is basically centered on
the power of music, the mystic elements make sense. It's completely
about belief and faith in the intangible.

Personally, I loved the story. And the music was amazing. I had
goosebumps throughout the entire movie. In fact, there was probably so
much emphasis on the music that there was less character development
than a lot of people would like. I liked this element of the movie,
though, as it requires you to read between the lines. Not even the
ending is handed to you nicely wrapped and on a platter. There's no
wrap-up dialogue or epilogue sequence, just the audience's own
inferences. Hence, if you don't have an imagination, you should stay
home.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fantastic movie. Well done. During our screening at a
particularly tough part for the title character, I heard people in the
theater say "No, no..." The level of "buy in" and suspension of
disbelief is high. 

Even the dissonance of Wizard and Lila's father was handled superbly.
Robin Williams hit just the right note in his portrayal of Wizard. The
actors playing Agust Rush/Evan Taylor and his mother and father were
amazingly well cast. 

This is truly a symphony of a film. You'll enjoy it, your children will
enjoy it, and you will walk out of the theater knowing that, for once,
your ticket money was well spent.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie "August Rush" really touched my soul. I was an orphan and
identified with this child's yearning and searching for his parents.
Near the end of the movie, I started to cry like a baby. "August Rush"
touched something tender buried deep inside my soul seventy-six years
ago.

My father was killed in a car accident three days before I would have
celebrated my third birthday. My father was also Irish and looked a lot
like August Rush's father. It was during the Great Depression and my
mother gave me up to the county's foster care agency.

I am now seventy-nine years of age. How I yearned down through the
years for my parents, especially my Irish father. My mother was French.
I met her many years later in New York City when I was in my early
twenties. She was cold and rejecting towards me. I could not understand
why. I was abandoned a second time by one of my parents.

The movie "August Rush" was healing to my soul wounded since early
childhood;and again, in my early twenties. I knew where he was coming
from as he longed for his parents. Instead of music, I used my talent
of writing to deal with the lost of my parents.

"August Rush" made me fantasize during the movie that my yearning and
searching for my parents were like this remarkable child.
<|_=00=_|>
I never comment on movies here, usually I just use this website to get
an idea of what I am about to watch but I saw this movie last night and
loved it. 

This movie is a fairytale set in real life circumstances. I really like
that the film was never advertised as an Oliver Twist take, but I loved
all of the allusions to it. It was a very creative take on the classic
story. The poor orphan boy who wants nothing more than to be loved.

My favorite aspect of the movie was how infused music actually was in
the movie. I am a musician and I liked the touches that the filmmakers
went into to make the film seem as credible as a fairytale can be. I
also like how it brought together modern rock, classic symphonic music,
and modern symphonic music. It didn't really glamorize the life's of
everyday musicians. I like all of the extra little things that were
thrown into the movie that only a musician would get. There were some
errors but for the most part I applaud the film makers for the
attention to the musical details.

Yes the movie was a bit bit corny, and a little over the top, but for
the most part I loved it and suggested it to every one.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a sneak preview tonight, not knowing anything about this film. If
you still have an inner child, and an imagination that has not been
beaten out of you by the "practical and mature" world, then you will
love this movie. I wish I had taken my daughter. The only people that I
have seen complain about this movie are people that probably consider
playing music "hard work and self-sacrifice". If you don't play the
cello, you are not going to notice how bad she fakes it. During certain
scenes, I found myself sitting way back in my recliner, with my eyes
closed, soaking up the sounds that inspired this young man. Not since
"Strictly Ballroom" have I been so moved by a film.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely loved this movie during the free screening in San
Francisco this evening. At its end, the film received claps, cheers and
shouts of approval by the majority of the audience. The child actors
were terrific, especially Freddie Highmore whose facial expressions
alone carried more emotion than any screenwriter's words could. The
music was amazing...the guitar work, incredible singing by young Leon
G. Thomas III, and the gospel singers (especially Jamia Simone Nash).
The blending of classical, rock and street-sounds music was phenomenal.
The movie was funny, poignant and a tear jerker. Heck with
realism...I'm more than ready for a little bit of magic in my
entertainment these days! Great film for families with teenage
children. Younger ones might be a bit frightened by, as someone else
said, the Fagan-like character played by Robin Williams and the intro
bullying. So this may be a film to rent on DVD to show the younger ones
so parents can discuss scenes with them or provide parental oversight
for your particular child. But no bad language, no visible sex scenes
(although we do know it occurred), and overall a delightful film. I
rarely if ever buy DVDs except for old classics but this will be one of
the exceptions. Also, the soundtrack should be terrific. When can I see
this again?
<|_=00=_|>
"August Rush" is sort of a feel good, modern day fairy tale involving a
parent/child separation and a boy's unrelenting search to be reunited
with his parents. But the primary theme is Music as a healing force in
the Universe that draws us all together. The film stars Freddie
Highmore, as the orphaned musical prodigy; Keri Russell, as the
sheltered cellist from Juliard; Jonathan Rhys Meyers, as the Irish
singer/songwriter/guitarist; Robin Williams as Wizard, the street
performer who takes August under his wing; and Terrence Howard as the
social worker who works with the orphan boy and his mother.

The acting was superb. There's not much dialogue in this movie. So the
majority of the story is told through the emotional expressions of the
actors and via the music. Although, Robin Williams does have a great
monologue where he talks about Music being the tie that binds all of us
together. Freddie Highmore (Charlie and the Chocolate Factory) is the
cream of the crop as far as child actors go. He amazed me in this film.
I can't wait to see more from him.

"August Rush" was perfectly directed and co-written by Kristen Sheridan
(In Amercia). It is so wonderful to see a work like this from a female
film maker for a change. Beautiful cinematography! The opening scene in
the wheat field is just breathtaking. The score is fabulous. Let's face
it, in a movie like this, you've got to have great music to pull it
off.

There are some exceptional musical performances, especially from
relative newcomers, Jamia Simone Nash who sings up a storm and Leon
Thomas who croons and plays guitar. But the most impressive thing about
this movie is that all of the actors really played these instruments
themselves. Meyers did his own singing as well. Highmore plays the
guitar in an unusual slap-harmonics style that reminded me of Michael
Hedges.

I enjoyed "August Rush" so much. I haven't been moved to tears like
this by a film in a long time. The story was very inspiring and the
boy's unyielding faith and will to never give up on his dream to find
his family really hit me. Kudos to the writers and director for ending
the film the way they did. Instead of a sappy reunion scene that
would've ruined the tone of the movie, they ended it beautifully with
the crescendo of the music and just the close-up on August as he sees
his parents standing there for the first time. Add August Rush to your
must see list for the holidays. It is well worth the price of a ticket
on to see it on the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an absolutely brilliant movie. I saw it at the special
premiere to the Grammy Recording Academy members a the WB studios in
Burbank. It's an absolutely amazing story with a brilliant cast and a
soundtrack that will blow you away. Apparently, both Freddie Highmore,
keri russell,Jonathan Rhys Meyers learned most of the songs and
played/sang them themselves, which is very impressive once you see the
movie. John from five for fighting wrote a few songs on the soundtrack
as well. Music is the common thread that keeps the entire movie
together and completes it into the masterpiece of a movie that it is.
Although at times, there may seem like there are gaps in the story
line/character development, the point of this is that the music is what
communicates those hidden details of the movie.Overall, this film is a
masterpiece that should be cherished by music-lovers everywhere.
