
Years on from his success in Billy Elliott, it's great to see Jamie
Bell being given a vehicle to show that he has the genuine talent to
carry a film. Hallam Foe is a fine British production; quirky,
disturbing, funny, interesting, thought-provoking and consistently
well-shot and soundtracked. At the same time, it's a little gimmicky,
heavily-influenced (Trainspotting, Rear Window et al), and frankly
far-fetched in its depiction of the unlikely love between Hallam and
the object of his affection in Edinburgh (Sophie Myles). But where the
disbelief needs suspending,Jamie Bell's performance saves the day, on
the emotional side through bringing tremendous depth to his character,
and on the physical side by making his rooftop athleticism completely
believable. For all its faults, this is a admirable and brave piece of
work, well worth-watching if you're after something dark and
provocative that will also make you laugh (the badger suit?).
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent and spot on movie. Not only is this so well directed and
acted, it has a difficult story to tell and convinces us 100% time. It
is certainly in part the performance of Jamie Bell that helps us take
this story of a peeping tom hero on board so effortlessly, but because
everything else also buzzes so authentically, we can only conclude that
, for once, we have a superb script. I didn't notice one word of
dialogue that jarred and this when we have such taboo items up for
discussion and for the doing of! Bell as mentioned is excellent but so
are all the cast and because I do mean all we have to conclude that Mr
Mackenzie has a rare actor directing skill. Sophia Myles is also well
worthy of mention, and seems capable of disarming changes that always
seem likely to catch one off guard. Funny, affecting, stimulating,
sexy, stylish and not a little alarming. Do not miss this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The seventeen year-old Hallam Foe (Jamie Bell) is a weird teenager that
misses his mother that committed suicide, drowning in a lake nearby
their house in Edinburgh after an overdose of sleeping pills. Hallam
spends his spare time peeping the locals and blames his stepmother
Verity Foe (Claire Forlani), accusing her of killing his mother. After
a discussion with his father Julius Foe (Ciar√°n Hinds), Hallam sneaks
out from his house and travels to London, where he sees Kate Breck
(Sophia Myles) and becomes obsessed for her because of her resemblance
with his mother. Kate hires Hallam to work in the kitchen of the hotel
where she works and they have a strange romance, while Hallam reaches
his maturity through the hardest way.

"Hallam Foe" is a surprisingly great and stylish little movie with an
original and erotic romance with Oedipus complex, obsession and
voyeurism. The enjoyable story is funny, sexy and dramatic and the
characters are well developed with great performances and chemistry of
Jamie Bell and Sophia Myles. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
Since Hallam's (Jamie Bell) mother died two years ago, he has detached
himself from life, watching (even spying) the people from a distance,
going as far as breaking in and searching their closets. He despises
his stepmother (a surprisingly matured Claire Forlani) who he suspects
of having murdered his mom. So Hallam takes off from the Scottish
countryside to Glasgow, where he prowls the roofs, and finds a girl
eerily resembling his mother. Revealing more of the story wouldn't do
it justice. Jamie Bell masterfully plays an angry young man,
reminiscing of Holden Caulfield. The film creates magical sequences,
sports a wry northern humour, and doesn't shy away from exploring the
feeling of loss and pain. Although the plot background relies too much
on textbook psychology, HALLAM FOE remains a kindhearted, lively drama
beyond the streamline tearjerkers. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Definitely. I even dreamt about him. Jamie Bell's performance as a
juvenile peeping tom is one that stays with you, following your
subconscious around without permission. Eliciting sympathy one moment
and astonishment the next, this teenager reeling from the death of his
mother leaves viewers similarly out of kilter. A dramatic thriller
funnier than a lot of what passes for comedy, David McKenzie's new
feature is beautifully shot in Scotland without wasting a second, the
camera lingering like Hallam's binoculars one moment before leaping to
the next vantage point. The plot often feels erratic as Hallam rushes
around Edinburgh in a haze of paranoia and confusion, but I felt this
added to my sympathy for the young crazy, and only a couple of
conveniently unfortunate incidents to ratchet up the tempo jarred
slightly. A strong soundtrack from Scottish indie heroes Orange Juice
and a host of their darker-tinged descendants helped everything along
nicely. A strong cast made for compelling viewing, particularly Sophia
Myles as the object of Hallam's roving lenses, though for me it was
Jamie Bell's impressive turn that made it real. He even overshadowed
Spud.
<|_=00=_|>
Jamie bell has certainly come a long way from that little dancing boy
'Billy Elliot', although he never seems to get any older, and here he
takes another challenging role as Hallam Foe. Hallam is introduced to
us as he skylines onto a couple having sex near his tree house, not
only is he semi-clad and wearing make-up he is sporting a rather
bizarre piece of headgear made out of a badger. It is at this point we
the audience can assume that Hallam is not only a bit mad but a bit
creepy, which apparently stems from his mothers suicide. From here on
in the story sees him leave behind his tree house sanctuary, not by
choice, and fly the nest to Edinburgh, he is homeless, jobless and
believes his step mother killed his real mother. Armed with his trusty
binoculars he scrambles around the roof tops spying on the residents of
the city and we learn that he distanced himself from people when he
lost his mother and it just turned into a kind of habit, a modern day
peeping tom. As opposed to the obsession he had with everyone before he
left home, he becomes focused on Kate, a human resources officer for a
large hotel, mainly due to the fact that she reminds him of his mother.
After conning his way into a job at the hotel he embarks on a
relationship with Kate but his spiralling madness, dark secret and
Kate's regular sex partner threaten everything and push Hallam further
down the spiral. Directed by David Mackenzie it really does have a
sense of love for the city and its people, but its Bell and Sophia
Myles (Kate), whose strange relationship forms the centre of the film,
that carry the plot along. With music from the likes of Orange Juice to
Sons and Daughters and an exclusive Franz Ferdinand track the pace is
upbeat and the David Shrigley Cartoon titles should be an inclination
to the type of quirky film this is. Bold, funny and a little disturbing
Hallam Foe is an enjoyable romp through the weird and wonderful world
of the human mind and emotions and how certain things can affect our
everything.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent performances, including a beautiful one by the city of
Edinburgh, are what make this erratic movie worth seeing. Jamie Bell is
very endearing, and demonstrates a wide emotional range (compare and
contrast dull American actors like Ryan Phillippe and Matt Damon). He's
well supported by, amongst others, Sophia Myles, Jamie Sives, that
wonderful old stager Maurice Roeves and, in an splendid cameo, Ewan
Bremner.

The story loses itself in unconvincing melodrama towards the end, which
is a pity. Up till then it's an eccentric, entertainingly wayward
affair, with a sparky script, good photography and lively editing.
<|_=00=_|>
Hallam Foe is so self-consciously a left field British Indie, at times
it seems close to self-parody. The result is a film that strives hard
to be a departure, but spoils its early promise.

The film is about an adolescent, Hallam Foe, in a Scots upper
middle-class dysfunctional family (wife recently dead, the husband
having replaced her with his young English lover) on a remote Scottish
estate. The early scenes are full of an atmosphere of unknown menace
and lurid danger, reminiscent of Ian MacEwan's early stories.

Hallam Foe is a very unusual, oedipal adolescent, one of many young
screen protagonists that seem to be the spawn of the original fictional
teenage weirdo, Holden Caulfield. After a lurid altercation with his
father's distinctly dodgy lover, Hallam jumps ship and goes to the big
city, where he quickly becomes obsessed with a female stranger who
resembles his mother, and struggles with the loss of innocence and
tensions of adolescence. But after developing a relationship with the
stranger, the film becomes slack and loses interest as the plot becomes
tenuous and spins off into improbability.

Still, on the plus side, Hallam Foe is not bad and even quite funny,
and has a real sense of place. The cast is good, particularly Jamie
Bell and Sophia Myles, both of whom give demanding performances.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably one of the most widely anticipated films of this year, "Hallam
Foe" is a weird voyeuristic drama, a mix of whodunit, romance and
family drama.

There is a great level of eccentricity that completely permeates
"Hallam Foe", and this generates right from the eponymous title
character, in an intense yet believably rounded performance from Jamie
Bell.

Hallam (Bell) is a self-absorbed outsider obsessed with his dead mother
who lives with his dad (Ciaran Hinds) and his stepmother (Claire
Forlani) in the Scottish Highlands. Hallam likes to spy on other
people, and his pasttime has descended into an obsession. Kicked out of
his house after he goes too far, he heads to Edinburgh where he gets a
job as a kitchen porter, beginning a romance with his boss Kate (Sophia
Myles), the spitting image of his mum...

The film looks great, with some great location shooting in the Scottish
Highlands and Edinburgh, complemented with a lively contemporary
soundtrack.

Bell is well supported by Hinds and Forlani, along with rising star
Sophia Myles as the luminous Kate. Jamie Sives as excellent as Hallam's
thoroughly dislikeable love rival, and Maurice Roeves and Ewen Bremner,
as his bonkers work colleagues, provide much welcome comic relief.

It can feel a bit too weird for its own good and Hallam does things
which would land ordinary people in jail, and it's only through Bell's
sympathetic portrayal that we're warming to him, when probably we
shouldn't.

For anyone keen to see what all the fuss has been about, "Hallam Foe"
is well worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
A prime example of a 'small' (or 'wee' as we say in Scotland) film. It
deals exclusively with one family and their particular quirks. This
film could be French - they are the masters of this particular genre.
Not a lot really happens and some of what does is extremely
implausible. To say the family members are dysfunctional is an
understatement. Much of their behavior bears no resemblance to the
lives of people I know. The strengths of 'Hallam Foe' are the
performances, the soundtrack and the cinematography. Action shifts
between a large country estate and the beautiful city of Edinburgh
(very strangely, though, there are no shots of the world-famous Castle
- like panoramic views of the Paris skyline that omit the Eiffel
Tower!). Jamie Bell is excellent as the eponymous Hallam - he even gets
to do a couple of runs and jumps that hark back to 'Billy Elliot'!
Sophia Myles is convincing as a hotel manager with an inability to
sustain fulfilling relationships. The central theme revolves around
sexual confusion/obsession and much of the plot concerns Hallam's
turbulent attitude to sex. Overall, this is an unremarkable film but
not without merit.
