
My reaction to Domino is about as mixed as the mixed race flowchart
that Mo'Nique presents on The Jerry Springer Show during the movie (I
know, that doesn't make much sense unless you've seen the movie). I
dare you to not laugh once she starts introducing terms such as
Blacktino, Chinegro, and Japanic. I suppose if you suck at the teat of
political correctness then you might not get the joke, but otherwise
it's one of the funnier scenes in the movie (the running 90210 joke
being the funniest). At this point you're probably wondering what in
the world Mo'Nique, Jerry Springer, mixed flow charts, and 90210 have
to do with a movie about bounty hunters. It's a legit question. All I
can say is welcome to the unconventionalism that is Domino.

I didn't mind the fact that this isn't very conventional, but at times
it does feel a little convoluted. By the end of the movie I was pretty
clear regarding what was going on, unlike the 'tard in front of me who
couldn't decipher the concept of flashbacks, but the script does feel
unnecessarily complex. Yeah, the movie kept my interest and is fairly
entertaining, but it was just begging for tighter editing. Trimming
about 20 minutes would've made the story stronger and the narrative
more fluent. My guess is that Scott was experimenting and just couldn't
bear to get rid of anything (Tom Waits' cameo especially felt
unnecessary).

Tony Scott's made a movie that appears to be something he and his
friends could most enjoy while under the influence of substances of a
dubious nature. I can deal with the frantic pacing, the quick camera
cuts, and the strange coloring, but is it really necessary to show
characters saying the same line multiple times from different angles?
Sometimes it's all just a little too weird for the sake of being weird.

One of my biggest complaints is that we mainly know that Domino is a
bounty hunter because she tells us about 24 times in her narration,
which starts to grate on the nerves after a while. I would've preferred
to see a little more focus on, you know, her actual bounty hunting.
SHOW us why she was a really good bounty hunter; don't just tell us
over and over. I was expecting some really cool scenes with Mickey
Rourke and Keira hunting down their bounty, showcasing the technical
side of the hunt, and wrapping it all up with cool, tough-guy (and
girl) bounty hunter stuff. Maybe a little sniping here, a vicious beat
down there. Sadly, it never came.

Do I remind everybody that I'm a reviewer by pointing out in every
single review that, "I'm Johnny Betts. I'm a movie reviewer"? No, I do
my job and show you what it is that makes me a movie reviewer! 

"By writing crappy reviews, Johnny?" 

Uh, well, I guess we all get mixed reactions sometimes.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked 'Domino' even though the movie felt like a total mess.
Describing the plot would be as much help to you as saying there was a
beginning and an end, so I might as well just do that. I could tell you
that Domino Harvey (Keire Knightley), once a model, has turned into a
bounty hunter under the leadership of Ed Mosbey (Mickey Rourke). Also
part of their team is Choco (Edgar Ramirez), who looks like a Latino
version of Val Kilmer. The movie also involves mafia, stolen money, a
man with an arm detached from his body, Ian Ziering and Brian Austin
Green from 'Beverly Hills 90210' as themselves, sisters named Lashandra
and Lashindra, and a Jerry Springer-sequence that could have been a
comedy short on its own.

I liked all of it for multiple reasons, its energy being one of them.
The movie feels like one long music video, even more than films like
'Trainspotting', 'Go' and 'The Rules of Attraction' (funny how they all
deal with drugs in one way or another), but it never becomes
exhausting. It is one of those films where style over substance
succeeds, maybe not in great way, but simply in a way. I also liked it
for the actors. Keira Knightley is convincing as a tough girl, even
more admirable after just seeing her as a naughty but delicate girl in
'Pride & Prejudice'. Mickey Rourke is back with extraordinary
performance in films such as 'Spun', 'Once Upon a Time in Mexico', 'Sin
City', and now 'Domino'. Not only them, but also Ramirez, Delroy Lindo,
Tom Waits and especially Christopher Walken (as the producer of a
reality show the team is doing) give the movie something extra to
enjoy. It is exactly what this movie is, enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
Tony Scott destroys anything that may have been interesting in Richard
Kelly's clichéd, patchy, overwrought screenplay. Domino Harvey (Kiera
Knightley) was a model who dropped out and became a bounty hunter. This
is her story... "sort of".

The problem with this rubbish is that there isn't much of a story at
all and Scott's extreme graphic stylization of every shot acts as a
distancing mechanism that makes us indifferent to everything in
Harvey's chaotic life.

You just don't care about Harvey. Knightley plays her as an obnoxious,
cynical brat who has done nothing to warrant our respect. She punches
people she doesn't like and sheds her clothes and inhibitions when the
situation calls for it, but she isn't the least bit real and Knightly
isn't the least bit convincing, either.

The film is boring. It's loud, too, and shackled with one of the most
annoying source music scores I've heard in a long time. The final
twenty minutes are a poor re-run of Scott's "True Romance" climax with
Domino's gang going to meet two sets of feuding bad guys who are --
surprise! surprise! -- destined to shoot it out with each other at the
top of a Las Vegas casino.

Unfortunately, this potentially exciting conflagration is totally
botched by Scott and becomes a confusing, pretentious, pointless
exercise in celluloid masturbation. This is not an artistically brave
or experimental piece; it is a failure on every level because it gives
us no entry point to the lives and dilemmas of its characters.

Mickey Roarke looks good as a grizzled bounty hunter, but he disappears
into the background as the "narrative" progresses. Chris Walken turns
in another embarrassing cameo and Dabney Coleman, always solid, is
underutilized.

Don't be fooled by this film's multi-layered, gimmick-ridden surface.
It is still a turd no matter how hard you polish it.
<|_=00=_|>
My name is Domino Harvery. {EDIT *dizzying* CHOP} My--my--my name is
Domino Harvey. {CUT, CHOP} My name is Domino Harvey. {EDIT. CUT.
Playback}

Never have I seen a director take so much flack for his style before.
By now it is evident that most people do not appreciate Tony Scott's
choppy, flashy, dizzying editing technique. If I have to choose between
loving it and hating it, I'd say I love it. It was borderline
distracting at times, but the end result was pretty good and it's nice
to see a director with a creative edge to his style and some
originality (even if it borrows heavily from MTV videos).

This stylistic edge manifests itself as Keira Knightley plays the role
of cocky badass bounty hunter Domino Harvey and even her dialogue seems
strangely choppy. Otherwise she plays her poorly because I pretty much
hated her character and did not sympathize one bit with her, no matter
how much she suffered. We follow Domino through her life as she joins
up with fellow bounty hunters Mickey Rourke, Rizwan Abbasi and Edgar
Ramirez. The crew become tangled up in the FBI and suddenly has a
reality show contract under Christopher Walken's TV production company
(what is Christopher Walken doing in every film, by the way?). I guess
that is a clever film technique, because now Tony Scott is free to use
as much flashy MTV/Reality Show editing footage as he likes. It becomes
a pastiche of MTV culture at this point.

It followes then that the story is told at an amazingly rapid-fire
pace, with lots of raunchy strong language and gun violence. There are
some funny jokes; it's all very modern and surreal at the same time.
It's a mess, but it's a rather enjoyable mess. It is ultimately flawed
in so many ways (the actors try too hard to make their characters
"cool", for one) but it works. I give it a weak 7/10 which may seem
generous when compared to the general consensus of movie-goers who
graded this film  but I feel it had some good ideas and executed them
well.

7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
" Domino " has been widely condemned on this site for its frenetic
editing style and " sickening " photography. It's detractors cite its
superficiality and criticize its deployment of " style over substance"
I couldn't disagree more. I believe that " Domino " represents the
absolute height of Tony Scott's film-making career. 

After having created the dominant Hollywood action movie style
throughout the late eighties and early nineties Tony Scott has moved
progressively closer to a more subjective style of cinema. As early as
"Crimson Tide" Scott used his stylistic talent to portray the inner
worlds of his characters- the claustrophobia and drama inherent in the
conflict on board a nuclear submarine was embodied in the excellent use
of long lenses combined with dutched-angle framing. This was then
carried through to " Enemy Of The State" and "Spy Game" which visually
represented the worlds of surveillance and espionage respectively. 

" Man On Fire" was an extreme departure , a move into an expressionist
more painterly aesthetic. Here Scott used an antiquated hand cranked
camera and flash frames to express his character's explosive rage .
Although not entirely successful it introduced the techniques which
were to find their full expression in " Domino"

Couched in the framing device of an FBI interrogation " Domino"
presents the life of the infamous bounty hunter via her narrated
disjointed fragments of memory. She grasps at memories as we all do- in
fragments, flashes and brief snatches. As Domino relays her story
verbally Scott relays it visually illustrating not only the events
which she describes but also the point of view which guides them. She
does have " traces of mescaline" in her system but her individual
vision is anyway Unusual -that of an woman who eschewed the life of
luxury for bounty hunting. 

It is when Domino begins to relate the events which lead to her
captivity that Scott really lets rip. Together with Cinematographer Dan
Mindel and composer Harry-Gregson Williams Scott orchestrates a
postmodern canvas of contemporary Americana. Gradually we begin to
realize that unusual though she may be Domino is no more disjointed
than the "90210" culture she has rejected. As she wades through this
cultural melange Scott makes his viewer more aware of the innocence
which it destroys through the underprivileged children which the
narrative introduces. Ultimately Scott portrays their salvation as the
only escape we have from this surreal trip. 

To criticize this movie for being overly stylized is akin to
criticizing a Picasso or a Pollock for not representing that which is
recognizably human. Like any great painting the meaning in " Domino" is
in the surface and the surface is everything. 

I am not in any way associated with Scott Free but have always been and
will continue to be a huge admirer of Tony Scott's work
<|_=00=_|>
Repetitive music, annoying narration, terrible cinematography effects.
Half of the plot seemed centered around shock value and the other half
seemed to be focused on appeasing the type of crowd that would nag at
people to start a fight.

One of the best scenes was in the "deleted scenes" section, the one
where she's in the principle's office with her mom. I don't understand
why they'd cut that. The movie seemed desperate to make a point about
anything it could and Domino talking about sororities would have been a
highlight of the movie.

Ridiculous camera work is reminiscent of MTV, and completely not needed
or helpful to a movie. Speeding the film up just to jump past a lot of
things and rotating the camera around something repeatedly got old the
first time it was used. It's like the directors are wanting to use up
all this extra footage they didn't want to throw away.

Another movie with Jerry Springer in it? That should've told me not to
watch it from the preview.

A popular movie for the "in" crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
From the first moment, this "thing" is just an awful sequence of
extremely short cuts of blurry camera work. While the overall plot has
every potential for a thriller, the story is so badly told that I'm
unable to buy it. From the middle of the film, the actions of
characters don't make sense to me. Stop reading now to avoid SPOILERS.

For instance, Ed's idea to have Edna make coffee for them after having
shot off her son's arm is way below his alleged experience; it's just
an extremely stupid idea. Domino not questioning the fragmentary orders
she receives from Claremont Williams over a breaking-up phone
connection just eludes me; shouldn't she be long suspicious that
Williams is turning them in? Those FBI agents seem out of their minds
showing up with just one single helicopter to something they have every
reason to consider a capital mafia shoot-out. Besides, what they do by
withholding and leaking information towards Cigliutti is pretty much
incitement to murder; it seems to me like farewell to justice if that's
they way the FBI does investigations. In reality, they'd have a case
messed up beyond repair if they acted like this. We get to see a car
accident which normally would have at least seriously injured if not
killed most of the passengers but miraculously leaves all of them with
just a few bruises. Quite the contrary, the accident is immediately
followed by Domino making love to Choco, which is from Domino's
viewpoint in no way founded by previous events but just by being
drugged to the eyeballs.

The whole sequence of scenes starting from the phone call of Claremont
Williams appears to me just as want-to-be dramatic razzle-dazzle. This
combined with the awful, uneasy camera work just makes a piece I
hesitate to call a movie. I'm sorry for the wasted effort of the main
actors, whose talent is out of question.
<|_=00=_|>
My flatmate rented out this film the other night, so we watched it
together.

The first impression is actually a positive one, because the whole
movie is shot in this colorful, grainy, post-MTV texture. Fast
sequences, cool angles, sweeping camera moves - for the moment there
you feel like you about to watch another "Snatch", for the moment....

When the plot actually starts unfolding, one starts to feel as if one
over-dosed amphetamine. things just don't make sense anymore. i would
hate to spoil the fun of watching it by giving out certain scenes, but
then again, the film is so bad that you are actually better off NOT
watching it.

First you think it is a crime story recounted in a conversation between
Keira Knightley and Lucy Liu. WRONG. This conversation provides no
coherent narrative whatsoever. Rather on the contrary, Domino's lesbian
come on on Lucy Liu's character during the second part of the movie
just throws the audience into further confusion.

Then i thought that maybe it is a movie about a girl from affluent but
dysfunctional background who grew to be a tough bounty hunter. In any
case, that is the message conveyed by the opening scenes. But after
that the question of Domino's character is entirely lost to the
criminal plot. So in short, NO this is NOT a movie about Domino's
character.

Then i thought, it's probably a story of one robbery. A pretty bloody
robbery. 10 millions went missing, bounty hunters are chasing around
suspected robbers, mafia kids are executed, hands are removed, Domino
tries to crack why this time they get no bounty certificates, etc. But
soon this impression is dispelled by another U-turn of the plot.

This time we are confronted with a sad story of an obese Afro-American
woman, who fakes driver's licenses at the local MVD and at the age of
28 happens to be a youngest grandmother. Lateesha stars on Jerry
Springer show, tries to publicize some new, wacky racial theory, and at
the same time struggles to find money for her sick granddaughter.

What does this have to do with the main plot? URgh, well, nobody knows.
Except that director had to explain the audiences where will bounty
hunters put their collectors' fee of 300,000.

Then at some point you start to think: "Oh, it is about our society and
the way media distorts things". There is reality TV crew driving around
with the bounty hunters and doing some violent footage. The bounty
hunters are also stuck with a bunch of Hollywood actors, who just whine
all the time about having their noses broken and themselves dragged
around too many crime scenes. But NO, this is not a movie about media,
they just appear sporadically throughout the movie.

Plus there are numerous other sub-plots: the crazy Afghani guy bent on
liberating Afghanistan, the love story between Domino and Chocco, the
mescaline episode, the FBI surveillance operation...

Can all of the things mentioned above be packed into 2 hrs movie? Judge
for yourself, but my conclusion is clear - it is a veritable mess!
<|_=00=_|>
Domino opens up with the title character being interrogated, and
through the voice-over narration she informs us, "This is the part
where I tell them to go to hell  that I'm not talking until my lawyer
arrives." And two seconds later she tells the interrogating officer,
"I'll tell you everything." This sets the tone and rhythm for the rest
of the movie, and lets us know the narrative isn't afraid to contradict
itself. Soon we jump to the setup of the film's ending, then we jump
back to the beginning of Domino's story, and then we jump to an
important plot point that won't come into play until twenty minutes
later. Literalists and traditionalists, please stop watching the film
immediately. So in the spirit of the film, I'll come back to this point
in a little bit and probably say something completely different. If
you're with me, you'll understand. If not, get lost.

Regarding the style: I never thought I'd see the day when I'd like a
movie with a music video meets reality TV vibe. I've hated  no,
scratch that  I've loathed films that would merely flirt with the
idea. I've stopped caring entirely about plot/characters and any
redeeming values because the style has driven me up a wall in those
other films. Here, though, Tony Scott doesn't think twice about
embracing it, and at first it didn't sit well with me as I remembered
all the failures that came before Domino. But then something happened .
. .

Mel Brooks, in describing his overboard ideas of comedy, once said,
"What's the point of going all the way to the bell without ringing it?
Let's ring the damn bell." Maybe my problem with this
MTV/Reality-series style of film-making has been the fact that every
other filmmaker was content to go part way  to just flirt with the
idea  but here at last Tony Scott rings the bell.

And holy crap! When I started to listen it actually sounds good! Real
freakin' good.

Perhaps another reason why it works in this film is because Tony Scott
understands the potency behind each of a film's individual elements.
And he's not content to let the music, editing, on screen performance,
Kiera Knightley's voice-over, and on-screen text tell their small part
of the story and work together as a whole; Domino uses each of its
given elements to simultaneously tell their own version of the tale
from beginning to end in its entirety. It's a full-on frontal assault
of the senses and gives the viewer the feeling five people are telling
their own interpretation of the exact same story at the exact same time
 talking over one another, contradicting one another, interrupting
each other, going back and correcting themselves.

You've heard of Howard Hawk's overlapping dialogue? Tony Scott gives
you overlapping cinematic narrative elements. The genius and the magic
is that Tony Scott masterfully maintains comprehensible order through
all this narrative chaos, and somehow Tony Scott makes it all work.

Also, the film's stylization has another point behind  it serves as a
reflection (dare I say an alternate, yet effective, means of character
development?) for Domino Harvey, her attitude, and the world she lives
in. This movie is not content simply telling us about the world, it's a
part of that world too, and for two hours it wants to bring us there.
Or to draw an analogy  you can listen to a book being read in a flat
monotone or you can listen to it being read with different voices for
each character, and the narrator gets up and acts out the story too.
Domino goes that extra distance.

The plot? I'd be wasting my time if I tried. Domino Harvey is a former
model turned bounty hunter. And the movie, itself, is an
action-adventure thriller. You don't need to know anything more. The
point of Domino isn't on the contents of the plot, the point of Domino
resides in the style in which that plot is told (and it is told very
effectively). Or in other words, a summarization is nearly pointless.
If you need to "get" the plot, you're not going to "get" Domino at all.

Domino is a style, an attitude, a perspective. It's a film willing to
tell its audience to either come along for the ride or get lost. Based
on a true story? Kiera's voice over says it, "If you want to know what
*really* happened . . . get lost!" (note: stated with significantly
harsher language that IMDb doesn't want to accept in a review, but you
get the idea.)
<|_=00=_|>
If you go to this movie expecting something it isn't, you will be
disappointed, as with any movie. This movie contains what Hemmingway
described as the "iceberg effect". On the surface, its simply a cache
of random movie clips smashed together to make a movie. If this would
be written in a book, it would be a short story, because the action in
the movie is very fast paced, and unless you actually try to catch it,
the reasoning behind the plot (along with some subtle foreshadowing)
can very well pass you by. Definitely a movie you will have to see
twice in order to fully appreciate. Experimental Cinematography barely
describes this movie. The camera-work and post production add much to
the overall flavour of the film, making it quite artistic at some
points and open to interpretation at others (something to be desired in
American movies as of late). Although, at some parts it may get a
little raunchy, gruesome and too heavy for some audiences, the movie
never becomes completely unrealistic. The only aspect of the movie that
I would write off as "needs improvement" is the soundtrack selection.
No movie is ever good without a fitting soundtrack, and although the
soundtrack is quite fitting, the opening is a little too long, and the
other rap songs in the film really could have been replaced with
something more appropriate (heavy, grungy rock or psychedelic
electronica would have made this film a real trip). The flooding of
imagery and dynamic... color palettes adds another "artistic" aspect to
it, also combined with the events that happen throughout the film, this
is not a movie you can miss any part of and still understand. However,
that also makes it much more of a desirable film to watch, and not one
you'll quickly get bored of. 8.5/10
