
I read some negative reviews of this movie before I went to see it.
They were completely misguided! The movie is both intelligent and
emotionally appealing. The actors are excellent. The literary symbols
are consistent and right on the mark for the destination of this very
well-made film. It is important to keep in mind that the movie is made
on a time-line of contingencies, so that what would otherwise be
inconsistent actually can make sense in light of changes introduced by
the non-sequential experiences of Sandra Bullock's character. I suppose
those looking for some kind of horror movie or brain-blank thriller
(both of which can be enjoyable in their own light) might not have
enjoyed it. But those looking for a narrative worth following, a
message with some significance, and a generally well-made movie ought
to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had expectations for what this film was going to be like. It fell
short horribly. Maybe I had too great of expectations. 

The movie starts out really well and is strong for a while. As it
progresses, there are plot holes. It goes through all the days in a
week, and there are inconsistencies between the days. A lot of the
occurrences work out as the days progress, but some of them don't, and
just leave you wondering "why did they think that? they knew what
really happened." Even if Sandra doesn't know what happened in the
previous days, everyone else does and at points they blatantly don't
seem to know about things they should. Also, Sandra will do things on a
later day of the week because of something that happened earlier in the
week. Why is she doing those activities if she does not know about the
earlier events yet? It's tough when dealing with time, to work out all
the kinks. At some points it seems like the movie works out, but then
some things don't. 

I thought Sandra's acting was solid, she gave a good performance. The
daughters were also good little actresses. McMahon's performance was
bad. He puts out nothing until the very end where it looks like he is
actually showing emotion. I don't think he was well suited to the role.

The ending seemed to negate the entire point of the movie. It's the
only ending that could make sense I guess, and yet it did not fit. It
left all of us in the theater wondering "Is that it? That's how it
ends?!" It resolves nothing and leaves you with a bad taste. The very
end of the movie is also a huge clich√© that I wish the movie would just
have avoided. 

Over all, I thought the movie was entertaining for a while. Then it
lost its steam. I will probably not see it again, once is enough. It's
a good movie if you don't analyze things. If you simply want to watch a
movie, then maybe you'll enjoy it. However, if you prefer to also think
about what you've seen, this probably isn't the movie for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a clue on how to watch this movie: If you're looking to be
disappointed based on any inconsistencies, pay closer attention to the
movie. The so-called "inconsistencies" are actually based on a series
of events that combine to actually change many of the things you end up
seeing happening early on in the movie. Remember: The events that you
see happening on the screen aren't happening linearly. The calendar
hops all over the place throughout the movie, so it is possible for
events that transpire one day to effect what ends up happening in
future days. There are two days that are especially noteworthy in terms
of what would change the events of the future and they happen toward
the end of the movie. Think of how these events will affect the other
events that happen in the future and remember that as you see what
happens at the end of the movie.

I think the reason this movie hasn't been garnering a lot of critical
praise is because movie critics don't really want to have to utilize
logic while watching a movie. Another poorly reviewed film starring
Sandra Bullock, the truly brilliant The Lake House, was an even bigger
victim of movie critics' pathetically anemic logic processing skills.
In watching both movies, you really have to keep your faculties alert
and not lull yourself into a sense of "okay, I can just turn my brain
off now." And really, even though this movie isn't as good as The Lake
House, it is equally blessed with the beautiful, talented Ms. Bullock,
on top of featuring the beautiful, talented Nia Long, the totally
likable Julian McMahon, and some very good acting by the child actors.
And the film is very beautiful to look at, too; I now understand why
Bullock was raving about the cinematography and direction.

So please do see this movie and don't be dissuaded by the negative
remarks. You really do have to pay attention to this film in order to
enjoy it, but once you do pay attention, you will be richly rewarded.
I'm glad I went to see it and so should you.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I walked into "Premonition" today expecting the worst based on the
low rating here on IMDb, but throughout the course of the movie I felt
my smile growing bigger and bigger.

It started off smoothly and nicely, and had some of the best directing
I've seen in a while. The suspense was held together well, and all of
the acting was great. There were a few good scares even.

The moment I saw the title on the poster a few months back, I thought
to myself, 'How can this do anything different that the Final
Destination series hasn't?' Well I was proved wrong. This movie was put
together amazingly and seemed very original to me.

The only flaws I see with this movie is that you seen the end coming
from 3/4 through the movie, and I sympathized more at the beginning of
the film rather then the end. But all in all, PREMONITION is a must
see. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Premonition" is one of the few films I recall seeing where I left the
theatre infuriated. Not because the movie was bad. Rather, the movie
was very good until the utterly annoying ending.

This film had it all. The script for the most part was mature and well
paced. The direction was superb. The score was excellent. And Sandra
Bullock held herself quite nicely throughout the film, putting forward
one of her better performances.

That being said, the entire film comes to a screeching halt with one of
the sloppiest endings I have ever seen. It was bad enough that I could
see the crux of the finale from a mile away. But what pounded it in
further was that this crux comprised the entirety of the conclusion.
Not only is it not enough to be the ending, but it resolves nothing.
When the screen faded to black and credits began to roll, the entire
audience where I was began to chuckle and I could hear a chorus of, "Is
that it? That's the ending?"

This is one of those films that could be enjoyable so long as the
viewer stopped before the final scene. Even that might leave the viewer
feeling let down, but not nearly so as having to watch what is surely
the sorriest excuse for a finale I've seen in a professional film in a
long time. "Premonition" showed lots of promise and delivered
throughout, but collapses just before the finish line. A wasted
opportunity for all those involved, and sadly so.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Premonition yesterday and I enjoyed it very much, so I
can't understand why people say that this is a bad film. It's a good
psychological drama with top acting and good directing. It's a movie on
which you have to focus, but that goes automatically and it's not so
hard to follow when you don't think "What the hell is going on" during
the film.

Sandra Bullock is very convincing, as always, and we also get some good
performances by Kate Nelligan, Nia Long and Julian McMahon.

So please, don't listen to the critics, they don't know what they're
talking about. And as for the rating on IMDb: the only explanation I
can think of is that a lot of people don't get this film because it's
too complicated (although it's not), or because they didn't like the
ending, or maybe because they expected too much. But this is definitely
a very good drama, and it's one of those movies that make you think
about how important life is.

Everyone who wants to see this movie: see it without any expectations
and prejudices, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
The major flaw of this movie is it's script. The idea's involved are
not well thought out and at time's it feels as though there were parts
of the movie that were written out. The character that Bullock plays is
a tool of destiny, meaning that she receives this information (we'll
get to why in a bit) and instead of trying to prevent it she takes
every step she can to move towards it. For example, early on when she
flashes to after her husband's death she finds she has been prescribed
lithium and the doctor who prescribed it to her would in fact commit
her. When she tries to find this doctor in the phone book she finds
that the page with his name has been torn out. Now, flash forward to
the past before the husband death and logic should dictate do not
contact the doctor but of course this does not happen. Instead she
immediately goes to the phone book and ~(mock)shock~ rips the page out
goes to his office and tells him that her husband is going to die and
that she knows this because she is living her life out of order and
~(mock)shock~ the doctor prescribes her lithium. This is about the time
where a normal person would think maybe I should try to change this...
Once again, no. In fact at no point does anyone try to discover if this
can be prevented. Bullock, more or less, hurdles towards the end where
~(mock)shock~ she finds she is the reason behind the husbands accident
and she can't save him because everything she has done was the cause of
it. Now on to the truly ridiculous. The reasoning that we're giving for
Bullock's problem is her loss of faith in god, however, we never see
where she looses her faith. In fact other than the priest saying it's
been a while since he's seen her we have no reason to think she even
had faith in god.

The inconsistencies in the movie are even worse. The daughter of
Bullock on Tuesday of this insane week. Runs through a pane of glass
slashing her face up however on Wednesday when we first see the girl
there is no sign of this at all. Also, Bullock is at the scene of the
horrid accident when it occurs which begs the question why did the cops
have to come and tell her. Finally the only person who believes her at
all is in fact her husband proved by that fact that he triples his life
insurance policy the day of his death... but he doesn't even ask how he
dies!!! No one, not even the man who dies, tries to prevent this from
happening until 5 minutes before it happens. The list does go on but
I'm afraid I'd have to publish a book in order to list them all. Simply
put the script was awful, the characters were beyond stupid, the camera
work brought back thoughts of the Blair Witch and it was extremely
predictable. This is basically a glorified Lifetime movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this in the cinema last night with my girlfriend. First of
all, this movie was not even close to as bad as pretty much every
review has said. This was a very interesting movie and worked upon an
original idea and executed it in an above average manner. The only
gripes I had with it were that the priest in the end and Dr. Roth were
casted very poorly and detracted from the punch in the end. Speaking of
the ending, it wasn't nearly as a let down as people say on here
either. Not quite a movie I'd see more than once, but it kept me
interested and entertained until the end- what more could you ask for?
The scenery and cinematography were excellent and the whole movie
seemed like it took place either at sunrise or at sunset, which added a
serene and quiet backdrop to it, which I noticed right away. The
soundtrack was fantastic and right up there with the Sixth Sense in
terms of effectiveness; none of it got in the way of the action.

I highly recommend this movie to families and couples- it's a great way
to forget about the outside world for an hour or so! Grade: B-
<|_=00=_|>
Relative newcomers, writer Bill Kelly and director Mennan Yapo, have
concocted a testy little conundrum of a movie titled PREMONITION:
whether the audience decides to step into their little nightmare or
reject the premise that powerful emotions can drive the brain to
peculiar directions of functioning will be the divisive break in
acceptance of the film's premise. It is a fairly well done, thought
provoking experience and is carried by some better than average
performances by a strong cast.

The Hanson family is introduced as the husband Jim (Julian McMahon) and
wife Linda (Sandra Bullock) buy their new home. Jump forward after the
credits to a family that now includes two young schoolgirls (Shyann
McClure and Courtney Taylor Burness), a seemingly mildly depressed
Linda and a workaholic Jim. Abruptly, Linda is informed by a police
officer that Jim has died in an auto accident and her close friend (Nia
Long) and mother (Irene Ziegler) help Linda through the early moments
of the tragedy. Yet Linda continues to 'relive' moments: one day Jim is
dead the next he is alive, and all of the pieces of the puzzle that
erode Linda's mind become clues to investigate information she doesn't
want to know. She encounters a warped psychiatrist (Peter Stormare) and
a possible 'other woman' in Jim's life (Amber Valletta), and as she
attempts to mold the puzzle pieces to make sense, she learns about the
possible 'why' of the mental state in which she is trapped.

The film has problems holding credibility, but then the premise is a
novel enough to allow such missteps. Sandra Bullock takes over this
role completely, gains our empathy, and in the end the film works
because of her. She is becoming an actress who is learning the value of
understatement and that aspect of her craft serves her well. No, this
is not a great movie, but it is a well-produced little mystery that
asks the audience to engage both mind and imagination, and that is a
good thing! Grady Harp
