
"Million Dollar Baby" has great characters, but it doesn't glorify
them. It has a wonderful story, but it never tries to impress you. The
photography, score and direction is superb, but never distracting. What
this movie is, if I have to call it something, is passion. Passion for
film-making, passion for storytelling, passion for its characters,
passion for its actors, and passion for its story and the means at
which it will go to tell it. Amazing.

Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood) owns a messy boxing gym which is
populated, mostly, by downbeat losers who he spends some time training.
He runs it with his friend and former student Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris
(Morgan Freeman), who now lives contently at a room in the gym. One day
a young woman named Maggie (Hilary Swank) walks in, looking for a
manager and trainer. Frankie shafts her immediately ("girly, tough
ain't enough"). Frankie has bigger things on his hands. He's managing a
fighter who has a shot at a title bout.

But Frankie is old and weathered and not an appealing manager, so the
fighter leaves him. Frankie is broken by this; it is another in a long
line of rejections and separations. We can tell that, at this time in
his life, he only gets really close with those he's training (Scrap is
the only exception). We can tell that his loneliness  and a bit of
persuasion from Scrap  cause him to agree to teach Maggie. Teach, that
is the agreement, not manage. But, by the end of the film he will have
devoted his life to her.

So the rest of the story follows these two people. There is no real
'plot' that you could describe in a trailer because it is constantly
changingit is not the inspiring underdog story you may think of it as.
No, what it's 'about' is these characters, and how they react to the
circumstances around them, which change with each scene.

Narrating the story is Scrap, speaking like he's looking back to a time
long ago when everything has passed. His voice seems flat, deadpan, but
there is a working of subtle sorrow in it. Scrap is a sad human being,
he sees himself as the result of missed opportunities in the past, and
so he spends his time helping the others, offering them his wise
advice, with a tone of deadpan humor and even cockiness. Scrap knows
what should be done, and what will happen regardless, and he is sort of
okay with everything, in a sort of passive way. But the man also knows
what's right and he has a deep, inner strength which is displayed in
one scene in particular where you just have to cheer. It is an
intriguing character, and personally I think it's Freeman's best
performance.

And Eastwood's best too. He is an elderly man; some might say too
elderly to still be working. After all, most people are retired by his
age. But if you had to guess when you're watching this film, you would
never, ever say the man is seventy-four. You would say something closer
to the sixties, because the man has such amazing energy and dedication,
and above all, he has talent. It's been forty long years since "A Fist
Full of Dollars" and film has come a long way, and so has this man. At
seventy-four, passed all those years as an action hero, nearing what's
could be the end of his career, Eastwood has made his best movie. I
really, really hope he has time to make many more.

As for Swank, well, she must have found something big that she shared
with her character, because this is not acting, it is existing. Swank
is Maggie. That's all there is too it. This could be the movie she will
be remembered for.

So, "Million Dollar Baby" is a masterpiece. I saw it last night when it
opened in my city, and everyone else was seeing "White Noise", and I
was shaking my head. Everyone who is even remotely interested in movies
should see this one, just so they can know how movies are supposed to
be made. I'm trying to think, and there is not a single thing here
where Eastwood went wrong. The acting, directing, writing, score,
cinematographythey all accomplish precisely what they're supposed to
with sublime perfection. Many of these aspects will certainly receive
Oscars and all of them should.

You may cry through this film, you may cheer. Whatever the case, you
will love it.

9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Flawlessly written, acted and directed, MILLION DOLLAR BABY is being
hymned and wreathed by the critics as the best film of 2004. They're
absolutely right. "An old master's new masterpiece," the NEW YORK TIMES
said in a review that was more of an open love letter to Eastwood than
anything remotely resembling a critical analysis of the film itself.
For once such honey-tongued critical adulation is fully merited. Dark,
edgy, subtle and at times emotionally devastating, MILLION DOLLAR BABY
represents the apotheosis of Eastwood's art - the most lucid and
intelligently limned expression of his philosophy of the outsider, the
noble loners whose personal codes of honour set them both above and
apart from the compromised, corrupt societies they inhabit. The Boxing
Ring As Metaphor For Life is a hoary trope almost as old as Hollywood
itself, employed to varying effect in films as diverse as THE CHAMP,
GOLDEN BOY, REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT, THE GREAT WHITE HOPE, FAT CITY,
ROCKY and RAGING BULL. In MILLION DOLLAR BABY, though, Eastwood the
director brings a fresh eye and an entirely fresh approach to both the
setting and characterisations, virtually re-inventing this venerable
sub-genre rather than simply recycling its conventions. Eastwood the
actor is in fine form - a commanding if increasingly weather-beaten
presence - as gym owner Frankie Dunn. A case study in loneliness,
Dunn's creased face is a map of places you'd rather not go to and
disappointment has clearly been a life-long companion. Co-stars Hilary
Swank and the magnificent Morgan Freeman, playing Frankie's unlikely
protegee Maggie Fitzgerald and friend "Scrap-Iron" Dupris, give what
are without question the best performances of their respective careers:
deftly underplayed, their roles provide emotionally overwhelming
impacts more powerful than anything glimpsed in the film's riotous
fight sequences. Forming an iron triangle forged from mutual
dependence, Dunn and Dupris school the impulsive but untutored Maggie
in both the techniques of boxing and the tradecraft of survival in a
world pre-disposed to pulverise individualism. The canvas-floored
square ring becomes the arena in which all three characters confront
their various demons, battling for both victory and personal
redemption. Paul Haggis' screenplay is itself a masterwork, improving
on its source material without betraying the concise but compelling
situations and superbly drawn characters found in F.X. Toole's short
stories. And, finally, Eastwood the composer's elegiac but unobtrusive
score is a minor classic of its kind, a requiem to both lost souls and
lost causes. MILLION DOLLAR BABY is not only the best film released in
2004 it is also the most fully realised and richly textured major
studio movie of the decade.
<|_=00=_|>
Million Dollar Baby is a movie about boxing like Braveheart is a movie
about men in kilts riding horses. What it is is a movie to experience
if you find yourself ever entertaining thoughts about loyalty,
determination, talent, no talent, age, youth, courage, fear, fate, and
the pain and joy of both living and dying.

I read reviews of Million Dollar Baby and expected to like it. Roger
Ebert can be soft on movies because he is plainly a big fan, but even
he does not lightly toss around the M-word, masterpiece. Yet he drops
it on MDB, and justly so. The story is simple and searing. A gal
(Hilary Swank) with much heart and no experience aspires to be the
champion of the world. She is Rocky in a sports bra. A grizzled fight
trainer-manager/gym owner (Clint Eastwood) reluctantly takes her on.
His best pal and wise-man assistant (Morgan Freemna) stands alongside
them, as the plot unwinds steadily, seamlessly, picking up speed, scene
by scene, act after act. Eastwood and Freeman are artists at the top of
their profession and they, along with the brilliant Swank, present you
the very worthy lives of three people you will care about and remember.
The arena is boxing, but it might as well have been boating or baking.
It is a story about values and truths that far exceed sports and
movies. I walked into the Lowes Lincoln Square theater last night
knowing Million Dollar Baby was taking me on a ride and willing to hop
aboard. What a beautiful, memorable ride it was.
<|_=00=_|>
Clint Eastwood is a man of faith. He is an artist who is confident and
experienced enough to have a deep faith in the audience that he is
trying to reach. He is also a master of omission, of the left-out
detail/line, trusting in his gut that his audience is willing to
participate in his films by exercising their imaginations; that they
never want any aspect of the story to be 'dumbed-down' for ready
consumption. In fact, his trust in the audience to use their own minds
to fill in gaps is like a gift of part ownership in the film. "Million
Dollar Baby" is a beautiful gift, and a masterpiece if film-making.

Eastwood plays Frankie Dunn, an elder boxing coach, manager, and expert
'cut man' who runs a gym and is learning Gaelic on the side. He's a
nice enough guy, but he can't seem to shake the guilt from ghosts in
his past (some we're in on, some not quite). His guilt/shame is a
constant just beneath the surface and gives him something of a cold
exterior, sometimes frozen. Yet, as played by Eastwood, you know Dunn's
aware of his own plight, but just doesn't know how to melt the ice. Or
more importantly, if he's deserving of such a meltdown.

Enter Maggie Fitzgerald (Swank). She's a thirty-something trailer trash
woman from southwest Missouri. An unlikely hero for sure. But for my
money, Maggie is this generation's Rocky. That may seem an easy,
simplistic, and over-reaching comparison, but the parallels are deep,
obvious and myriad. Like many people, Maggie's dream (being a
professional boxer) is always just out of reach, yet she cannot give it
up. She works as a waitress to make ends meet (or at least the ends are
almost touching), but spends all her spare time training. Like Dunn,
Maggie has her own ghosts haunting her, and through these ghosts they
bond tighter than super glue. The heart and work (incalculably huge
amounts) that Swank put into becoming Maggie are unnoticeable. It's a
silly phrase but it's as if she was born to play this part. It fits
like a glove. The real life parallel of her relationship to Eastwood no
doubt played a part in her ability to connect with the character's
relationship to Dunn. Yet this in no way diminishes her accomplishment.
She is brilliant.

Morgan Freeman plays Dunn's right-hand man (Scrape) at the gym, and
reprises a role similar to Red from "Shawshank Redemption". He also
voices the omniscient narration to the story, a la Red. Like Dunn and
Maggie, he's similarly bruised, but somehow less deeply. He's there
when both of them need support and helps to bring them together. I can
think of nobody acting in film today who can embody kindness and wisdom
through friendship and support better than Freeman. He also serves to
bring in another Eastwood trademark  'Banter'. Even when themes are
heavy, Eastwood's sense of humor is never entirely absent and he and
Freeman have a good time with each other, as did Bacon and Fishburne in
"Mystic River". These three characters together create a beautiful and
true, albeit small, family unit Eastwood's lifelong themes and
'blurring of lines' are on full display: good vs. evil, right vs.
wrong, the role of violence, redemption, guilt/shame over previous
acts, even god and death. Never one for easy answers, his version of
the truth lies in the shadows, quite literally. Cinematographer Tom
Stern crafts characters in shadow, shifting in and out of light. There
is a grey area between the light and the dark where something
approaching truth lies waiting, and this is where Eastwood takes us,
then leaves us there to ponder. "Million Dollar Baby" is a shadow play.
As accomplished as "Unforgiven" and "Mystic River", yet even more
personal, this film is a triumph of human storytelling. As Bacon's
character says in "Mystic River", "and the hits just keep on comin'."
<|_=00=_|>
Saw "Million Dollar Baby" in Manhattan last night. Clint Eastwood, one
of the all-time most famous actors -- and directors -- has more than
enough money where he could choose to pull the strings on block-buster,
mindless action pictures, ala Jerry Bruckheimer, or comic books. Or,
hell, in his twilight years he could just lay back and enjoy his
millions. But no. He has chosen instead to make quieter, lower-budget,
heart-felt, character driven films like "The Unforgiven" "True Crime"
"Mystic River" and now Million Dollar Baby. And the world is a better
place for it. Eastwood uses his multiple talents to make films that
have something valuable to say. In the emotionally powerful, Million
Dollar Baby, he tells an allegorical tale of boxing to subtly express
themes of hope, redemption, sacrifice, persistence, and belief in one's
self. The movie emphasizes that failure is a more honorable and
personally fulfilling trait than never having tried, while also
frowning upon laziness and leeching off others. But see the movie and
judge for yourself. I personally consider great films as the ones where
I leave the theater with a better understanding of human nature, or a
desire to improve the world by even a little bit. Eastwood's latest
more than succeeds on those counts.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why, but I went into the theater thinking I was about to
see a female Rocky Balboa kind of deal. I left the theater in a daze.
Overwhelmed by the simple truth of its conclusion. My hat to Clint
Eastwood. What an extraordinary career. An artist of enormous
proportions so well camouflaged behind a shy smile and a charming,
clumsy attitude. I remember focusing on Clint Eastwood through a very
different lens after sitting through "Pale Rider" a mythological,
lyrical western. Actors love him because he, clearly, doesn't lie to
them, doesn't kiss their asses. He quite simply gives them room to
maneuver. Even someone like Meryl Streep, felt freer and capable to
stretch herself all the way to Italy under his wing. Sean Penn, Kevin
Bacon, Tim Robbins, Jude Law, Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman yes mostly
men but there was also, other than Meryl Streep, Genevieve Boujold.
Marcia Gay Harden, Laura Linney and now Hillary Swank with a
performance that not even "Boys don't Cry" could predict. The film is a
triumph in every department. My stomach ached from feeling. That's a
compliment Mr. Eastwood. Thank you very much.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is excellent. Hillary Swank deserves to receive the Oscar for
her performance. I haven't seen much of her lately and am so glad that
she was picked for this movie. She seems a natural for this role. Like
she didn't even have to act, she just let her own emotions take charge.
She stole every scene when she was on. Clint Eastwood is one heck of an
actor and his directing of movies is even better. He is 75 years old
and hope he has another 10 years of good movie making in him. Morgan
Freeman is a great actor who never seems to receive the recognition he
deserves. Tell others to see it because it isn't in the top 10 listing
of viewed movies last week. I'm concerned the subject matter is too
deep for most people and it will be pulled to make room for some
lame-brain movie like Fat Albert.
<|_=00=_|>
If anyone had doubts about the genius of Clint Eastwood, they should
run, not walk, to see "Million Dollar Baby", perhaps the best movie
that came out of Hollywood is past year.

Mr. Eastwood has that rare quality in choosing an odd story to bring to
the screen. With this film he accomplishes what could be, perhaps, the
best movie about boxing in history. In the first place, the story by F.
X. Toole, in which the movie is based, is an odd choice. We have seen,
so far, men boxers, but there is a world out there where women boxers
compete in this sport that is not well known, or not commonly seen. The
adaptation by Paul Haggis is excellent.

"Million Dollar Baby" has a rhythm of its own, seldom seen in boxing
formula pictures. Thanks to Tom Stern almost black and white
cinematography, this sordid world of second class gyms in the poor
areas of the inner city, makes the film more interesting in its
texture. Enhancing it all is the great musical score that Mr. Eastwood,
a jazz enthusiast, has created. Music has always complimented Mr.
Eastwood's work, but never in such a way as in this movie.

If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading now.

Frankie Dunn, is a man who has trained boxing champions. He is a man at
odds with himself. He has demons within him that are tearing away at
his soul. We watch him going to mass on a daily basis, but does that
qualify him as a devout Catholic? Not according to Father Horvak, who
sees a troubled soul in search of redemption.

Frankie's letters comes back, returned from a daughter that wants
nothing to do with him. Frankie, at the beginning of the film, loses
the services of one his better boxers because a richer competitor is
willing to pay the fighter much more. Frankie keeps the older Eddie
"Scrap-Iron" Dupris employed in the gym because he feels guilty in
having let this former boxer down at the highest point of Scrap's
career.

Into this world comes Maggie Fitzgerald. She is a young woman who wants
to make it as a fighter; she comes from a white trash background and
everything is against her. The only reason she has been allowed in the
all-male gym is because she has paid six months worth of membership. We
watch Maggie as she struggles on her own without any help from Frankie,
the man she would like to interest in coaching her. Frankie realizes
there is potential in this young woman, who he sees on a daily basis
practicing, and he relents. Maggie proves she follows his instructions
well. Then we watch her progress as she wins fight after fight until
the million dollar fight with the vicious title holder.

The ironic twist toward the end of the movie arrives out of nowhere; it
shakes us up because it was totally unexpected. It makes Frankie and
Maggie become father and daughter. Because of the guilt he feels in his
own life, Frankie does the right thing in accepting the responsibility
of the situation.

The ending is the only thing that feels a bit manipulative in the film,
although it's handled with a lot of taste, as it would have been worse
in the hands of another, less capable director. The only other complain
is that Mr. Eastwood speaks in a whisper, which distracts from what is
going on, as we strain our ears to catch every nuance of the brilliant
dialog. Also, the voice over by Morgan Freeman's character is at times,
unintelligible.

This is a film totally dominated by Clint Eastwood. As an actor, he
brings to the role total credibility as the tormented soul inside
Frankie. Hilary Swank makes a brilliant Maggie, the ambitious girl that
gets much more than what she bargained for. Ms. Swank has the best
moment of her career after her work in "Boys Don't Cry". Working with
the right elements, Ms. Swank is an actress that works with little
gestures to achieve her input in the character she is playing.

Morgan Freeman is excellent as the beaten Scrap, a man who "could have
been a contender". He underplays this character with sensational
results. Brian O'Byrne, a theater actor who has been seen in two
important plays this year in the New York stages, makes an impression
as Father Hovark, who seems to understand Frankie. Margo Martindale is
convincing as Maggie's mother.

Sometimes it takes a lot for a film to be good. All the right elements
were gathered by Clint Eastwood for this movie. It makes one wonder
what will his next project be, or if he can surpass the milestone he
created with "Million Dollar Baby".
<|_=00=_|>
Wow- what an incredible movie! There are so many layers to this film,
one could almost see it 4 times and get something new out of it every
time. I loved first and foremost its message that we create ourselves
through our drive, loyalty, ambition, dedication, and work. Secondly, I
love its insistence in the good of the American Dream, and I loved its
excitement and beautiful, touching message toward the end. A movie
about violence and ambition that evolves into a movie about love,
hard-earned sacrifice, and doing something meaningful with one's life.
Grade A entertainment with a beautiful message to boot! Hilary Swank
and Clint Eastwood should both win their second Oscars for their
contribution to cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
"Million Dollar Baby" is the story of three different characters
Actually, two of them, Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) and Scrap Iron (Freeman)
are pretty much mirror images of each other

Frankie owns a rundown Los Angeles gym where he trains up-and-comers
His motto for his fighters is "protect yourself at all times." Scrap is
an elderly ex-boxer who helps out around the gym and keeps Frankie
company Frankie was the 'cut-man' in one of Scraps' fights that turned
bad Frankie still feels he's partly to blame 

But 31 year old Maggie (Hilary Swank) is totally different She works
as a waitress but aspires to be a boxer She is so poor that she has to
pick leftover meat off her customers' plates just to have the energy to
keep going 

Maggie needs boxing to make something of herself and gain respect When
she first approaches Frankie, asking to be trained, he told her he
never trains girls She continues to hang around and after much
harassment he eventually changes his mind From there, we begin to feel
some natural affinity between the twoTo say more would be to ruin a
lovely, heartbreaking film carefully layered with surprises

Beneath "Million Dollar Baby," there is a love story A deep love story
between two people with scars in their lives... Both are haunted by
family problems Maggie's family, led by her opportunistic mother is
alternately cruel and exploitative Frankie has an unloving daughter he
writes to constantly, but his letters always returned unopened, unread
and intact We never know what came between them

Eastwood handles his role with such ease that it's hard to judge
whether his acting or directing is the greater accomplishment He
stands as a challenge to his conscience when he finds the correct
answer in his heart
