
The film has its merits and is quite an accomplishment for $1 million
budget that it had. The story can be slow in parts but overall if you
like the intricate puzzle story then you will enjoy this film. It is
not a shot em up action movie so don't go in thinking that or you will
be disappointed. The acting wanes a little for the young detective but
overall the cast is good. Madsen plays a role that seems to peak at his
real life antics sometimes. The direction is good considering the
budget and limitations of being an indy. There were several times in
the film where I forgot I was watching a LOW DOLLAR indy and it felt
more like any other studio flick. I read an article that said the film
was shot in something like 20 days so for that I am impressed. It is
not the best movie this year but if you like old noir films and have a
thing for Shannyn Sossamon, it is definitely something to catch. The
last 20 minutes are GREAT if you have been attentive enough to follow
the story up to that point.

Better than most....Not as good as some.
<|_=00=_|>
"Chasing Ghosts" was a pretty good mystery. Michael Madsen stars as
Detective Harrison, who is about to retire. He only has one more case
to solve: Who is killing the crime lords around NYC? 

The best parts of the movie are the confrontations with Madsen and Gary
Busey, and the twists near the end. Meat Loaf, Michael Rooker and Danny
Trejo are underused. The style of the film also works. The
cinematography looks great but there are a little too many quick cuts.
It was shot In L.A. but the director did a good job hiding it. 

In the end: It's worth seeing for an excellent Michael Madsen
performance and the presence of the eclectic cast.

For more insanity, please visit: comeuppancereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
I actually found this film which is rated pretty low on IMDb and seen
by very few (only 337 votes) to be pretty effective. I mean it wasn't
amazing suspense film, but it definitely wasn't what some described as
"no better than a TV movie". It was much better, Michael Madsen did
very well and the supporting cast was decent too, the direction was
kinda average but the screenplay and plot made sense and actually
executed pretty well and wasn't predictable. I liked the cinematography
from Andrew Heubscher and dark score from Scott Glasgow. I also liked
the editing in this film done by the director Kyle Dean Jackson,
perhaps thats his main talent. Overall it was a movie worth renting, i
was satisfied, nothing amazing, but a solid suspsense film. ---IMDB
Rating: 5.3, my rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's a talky, alright. Think of Usual Suspects in semi-reverse when you
see it and it will still surprise. Since this went straight to DVD I
wonder how many have actually seen it. It's written to hedge; and it
makes you go back to Usual Suspects and ask yourself which script gave
out the better misleading information. Sure, US has a better score,
more meat in the casting, a higher calibre of editing, and more humour
in the lines. But Ghosts keeps on talking and talking and Madsen keeps
on sighing, shifting his feet, throwing butts all over the place, and
acting like himself. Within the first five minutes you know he's a
dirty cop, you just don't know how he is involved in this latest case.
If you make it through the first 15 minutes your're going to stay the
course till it's finished. This script is no slacker. Probably the best
"B" movie Madsen ever made. Worth renting from the VDO store, even
worth having for your own collection. Try it, you're gonna like it.
<|_=00=_|>
Madsen does Madsen like he always does, but here it fits the movie like
a glove. The cinematography is outstanding; the Director of Photography
deserves an Oscar nod for doing what he did on this budget. The music
is spotty, one minute it is near greatness, the next minute it seems
forced and mis-matched to the tension of the film. Still, the composer
did an incredible job considering his budget. He did the whole thing on
a Mac, with a MOTU Traveler using samples and a single recording
session with strings only. The kind of atmosphere the director (Kyle
Dean Jackson) was able to stir up with such a limited budget is
remarkable.

There isn't a poor performance in the bunch, save one: Corey Large.
Large has all the passion of a rice cake. The guy simply cannot emote,
which is sad because Shannyn Sossamon gives a tour de force performance
opposite someone giving her nothing. I am very interested to see what
this young director will do next, because he certainly does have what
it takes to make a good movie. Frankly I tend to believe that the
writer, producer and (uncredited) second director Alan Pao had a LOT to
do with this film's excellence. Here's hoping that we'll see many more
good things from both Jackson and Pao in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw Shannyn Sossamon in 'The Holiday', I wanted to see
what else she had done. Well, she was great in this otherwise
forgettable effort.

Perhaps it is just me, but after two viewings I have little idea of
what was going on. We have this dirty cop about to retire and held over
to finish out a baffling murder case. For unexplained reasons, he
drives around in a 1969 Ford Galaxie convertible with a police radio.
He is not undercover, so why does he drive his personal car? I suppose
he was watching too many episodes of 'Miami Vice' and 'Nash Bridges'
where the TV heroes drove their own convertibles.

Then we have the trainee partner transferring in from undercover work
in Miami. Somehow, he is immediately familiar with New York City and
the local criminal hierarchy. His understanding of police procedure and
office politics is strangely uneven. His personnel dossier is strangely
incomplete, but little interest is aroused by these discrepancies. The
police chief probably was thinking about having meatloaf for lunch.

The plot has the dirty cop turning in his badge and sending a
confession of his crime to the daughter of the undercover cop he
murdered to save himself from exposure and death. Why our man is
suddenly developing a conscience is never addressed.

After more murders and an attempt to question an informant who suddenly
and inexplicably turned homicidal toward his police handlers, we are
allowed to find out that the real transferee cop from Miami has been
held captive and a ringer is about to use his position to assassinate a
crime lord in his prison cell.

After killing his real target, the phony cop has no difficulty escaping
from prison guards and a police dragnet and boarding a private jet to
fly to freedom.

The final photographs that would incriminate the dirty cop never reach
the police and he presumably retires to enjoy his pension. The ending
of this film is just as incoherent as the plot. It would not have
strained the film budget much to provide a better script that would
allow the audience to know what is supposed to be going on.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like neo-noir and Michael Madsen, then this will be
entertaining.

First, it has a great cast supporting Madsen: Shannyn Sossamon, Gary
Busey, Michael Rooker, and the always interesting Danny Trejo.

Sossamon did a really good job in this low budget indie. Madsen was
great as a dirty cop that is handling one last case that may reveal his
secrets. Corey Large is a mysterious cop brought in allegedly from
Miami to help.

There is a big twist at the end a la The Usual Suspects.

Outstanding cinematography.
<|_=00=_|>
Slow and boring and long with the feel of a more vulgar version of CSI
with Madsen wasting his time more playing a dirty cop who's involvement
in Michael Rooker's death is apparently leaving him with sleepless
nights or something, we just have flashback shots and Madsen in bed
shots to really show for anything and he doesn't look too disturbed.
Corey Large is awful as his new partner, a typical rookie role that's a
twist that I don't mind revealing, he's the murderer. Yes, Madsen is on
his typical "last case" clich√© and it's a supposed serial killer of mob
men or people involved in criminal enterprises and pictures left to
taunt the detective and his staff. Hell they even have a funny
autopsy/coroner whatever guy like CSI too. Gary Busey is wasted, he
isn't even given a final fight scene or any dialogue besides a
flashback scene that is inter-spliced into the movie at several points
to be Madsen's nightmare. And even then the scene is not shown fully
and so don't get a full clue on what happen til the final half of
movie. And Busey is just not even given much of chance against Corey
"doofus" Large who easily murders him. That's just lame. Busey is never
one to go down without a fight regardless of the movie. And his death
in this is rather stupid and anti-climatic. 

Danny Trejo gives a good performance as does veteran actor Tom Wright
but they are lost in a sea of shitty other performances. Meat Loaf is
there too as the superior to Madsen and is also barely in the movie.
The end is bad and Large gets away with everything, why? I don't know.
This movie is dumb and boring. And I have a feeling scenes are missing
from it, like maybe nearly the whole ending is missing. 

Michael Rooker is also wasted in this movie. So many wasted good actors
in this movie, it's a shame.
<|_=00=_|>
Good Cinematography, OK plot, and good acting by Michael Madsen and
most of the cast is not enough to save bad writing, Poorly written
dialog, And the worst acting ever captured on film by none other then
Corey Large (America's worst actor who only keeps getting work because
he produced and wrote every movie that he's in such as this film
because no one else will hire him since he's the worst actor ever and
this film confirms it), the ending (which has Corey large posing like a
huge tool) is horrible and doesn't make any kind of sense what so ever,
this movie is a huge waste of time don't even bother with this piece of
crap.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie because I like several of the actors, including
Madsen and Shannyn Sossamon. Shannyn is likable enough that I am
willing to watch her in just about anything. Which is helpful, given
the roles she generally gets.

The mystery involves people turning up dead with Polaroid pictures left
behind as clues. Kevin Harrison (Madsen) is the hardboiled, jaded
detective who is retiring after this last case. Except that this case
has connections to mistakes he has made in the past. There is a new cop
working with him who behaves oddly, and the case also involves a link
to Taylor's (Sossamon) missing father.

The narrative was somewhat difficult to follow. It included flashbacks
that seemed to contradict each other and motivations that the viewer
had to guess at. Except that it doesn't really add up to a compelling
enough story to make me want to watch it again. Some movies may seem
complex on first viewing, but are rich enough to go back and examine
until you get it. I won't be doing that with Chasing Ghosts. I think
I'll re-watch L.A. Confidential instead.
