
After sitting through the entirety of Daddy Day Camp, I have to wonder
what was going through everyone's minds who were involved in the
making. The most likely reason was probably them thinking, "Is it
really possible to make a movie this year that is worse than Evan
Almighty and Delta Farce? Let's go for it!" Fortunately, Daddy Day Camp
is nowhere near as horrible as those other two films, but lord know
that it does come very close. This abomination of a movie somehow
manages to feature a great actor, Cuba Gooding, Jr., in by far his
worst role yet.

Anyone even slightly familiar with the first film will know the deal
here. Low on money, Charlie Hinton decides to open up a camp similar to
the day care service he ran in the first movie. Along the way, he must
resolve problems with his father and show his son that he really loves
him.

Yes, I know the plot sucks. While the first movie wasn't anything to
write home about, Daddy Day Camp is about a thousand times worse. In
the few scenes where there is supposed to be something meaningful
occurring, everything just comes off in the wrong way. It might be
because everything about this careless sequel is just ridiculous. Was
it really necessary to make a sequel? The first film is almost entirely
disregarded and almost every role is recast (although I haven't seen
the first one in quite some time so there might not be any of the
original cast members returning.) When Eddie Murphy turned down the
movie, they should have just dropped it and forgotten about it. He was
part of what made the first movie work, to some sort of level. His
manic energy, his great comedic timing, his general appealÂ… Cuba
Gooding Jr. is a great actor, but this role was just altogether wrong
for him. It just didn't work as well as it should have. That being
said, however, he was certainly the best aspect about this utterly
atrocious film.

Daddy Day Camp is missing much of the magic that made the first movie
watchable. None of the scene meld together very well (some of the
younger characters go from heartfelt moments, to being rude to other
kids for no reason to be rude and increasingly annoying) and the
writing and dialogue are as unbelievable as they come. The villain is
just pathetic, and the lesson that is supposed to be learned by the end
of the film is a very weak one. Since none of the younger characters
follow this lesson throughout the movie or seem to have learned
anything by the film's end, it all feels just so useless. There are
also, of course, those same old gross-out gags that you find in any
boring family comedy. Here, however, they are not done as tastefully as
in Underdog or as effectively as in the Cheaper By the Dozen films. In
Daddy Day Camp, just like with the first film, it is pretty much lame
gag after lame gag, watching flashy boring moments thrown onto the
screen in the hopes that something will stick and not come off as
completely and totally immature. In the first film, more often than
not, most of the gags worked to a certain extent. In this film, there
are very few redeeming factors, though. Barely any of those gags work.
In fact, I didn't even crack a smile throughout the whole movie, and I
am incredibly easy to please.

Another huge problem of the film was that most of the child actors were
not only annoying, but their acting was so bad that I wanted to kill
myself. Each person had their moments, but the kids mostly came off as
incredibly inexperienced. Movies as bad as Daddy Day Camp could at
least have the common decency to provide us with a semi-likable cast of
children that won't annoy us to death throughout the movie. The people
who cast this predictable shame of a movie should have learned a lesson
from the talents of the kids in the feature film adaption of How to Eat
Fried Worms. All of those kids were incredibly likable, and I loved
every minute spent with them and their childhood lives. That film is
much more interesting and complex than this simplistic bore-fest that
cannot even credit a single laugh to its name. With Evan Almighty, I
did at least laugh quite a few times. In Daddy Day Camp, I cannot even
give it that compliment. The only reason that it ended up better than
Evan Almighty was because of the story between Charlie and his father.
Surprisingly enough, it actually worked at times, and it worked very
well I must say. And not all of the kids were completely terrible.

So all in all, Daddy Day Camp was a pretty crappy movie filled with
wasted talent and some of the worst child actors I've seen on screen.
It is really obvious from the get-go that very little effort was put
into this boring sequel. I just hope that nobody goes into this movie
expecting even a relatively good movie, because it disappoints with
even the lowest of expectations. 2.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
It is impossible to have a spoiler for this movie, because it is
already rotten. At age 31, Fred Savage should know better. Directing
his first feature film after years of work in television, he allows
Cuba Gooding, Jr. to shamelessly mug the camera as if his eyebrows
needed exercise. I have had high school student directors who exercised
more restraint than this. I really don't mind fourth-grade gross-out
humor either (my wife teaches fourth grade), but the bits in this sad
excuse for a movie are merely gross without being remotely funny. Brown
(did it have to be brown?) water gushing from the most disgustingly
filthy toilet in history is not funny. Having a small boy throw up in
the camp director's tent is not funny, no matter how tightly Gooding
can clench his facial muscles in response. The most amateurish comedian
knows that jokes have to be set up. In this movie there is no setup,
there is no payoff, hence there is no joke. Having Gooding's character
take a pratfall every third time he stands up doesn't help. In a
theater full of families we were 50 minutes into an 80 minute movie
before anyone actually laughed.

It would be tedious to note every major problem in this movie. Here is
one. The big bully kid (there has to be one, of course) who looks to be
about twelve going on thirteen, turns out to have a bed wetting problem
(note the originality of this plot twist). A big, bad Marine colonel
admits that he had the same problem until he was ten. This means the
bully must be under the age of ten. But in his first appearance in the
movie this same kid complains, "I wanna stay home and watch nudie
movies." For those who may have forgotten fourth grade, this is not
normal nine-year-old dialog. I begin to wonder about Fred Savage's
childhood. Oh, that's right. He grew up in Hollywood.

There is only one exception to the annoying hyperactivity of the entire
cast: the quiet dignity of Richard Gant as Gooding's Marine colonel
father. An excellent actor who has never made it big, Gant almost
manages to make his scenes work. The problem is that even though others
are on screen at the same time, Gant is always working alone.

Not even the moral of the story - and this being a "family film" there
must be a moral - provides any redemption for this movie. The closing
scenes seem to establish that if the other guys cheat, you should cheat
right back. Let's hope director Savage watches a few good comedies
before he tries again.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first comment on IMDb, because i am not very good in
English. But seeing that this movie was so underrated, i cant resist to
write review. This is good kid-movie! It kinda remind me my childhood.
Kid's acting was not annoying, and directing - not boring. Storyline -
simple, but not crazy unbelievable. Jokes makes me smile, but not laugh
of course, i am probably too old for this humor :) But kids may like it
very much. And most important, movie is not stupid and has some moral
thoughts.

It is definitely NOT 2nd worst movie in history! I see A LOT of movies
every day and to half of them i am not paying attention too much or
just turn off after few boring minutes. Daddy day camp i watched till
the end (and with some pleasure). 5/10

p.s. but if this movie had 3/10 i am probably never would watch it :)
"Worst in the history" take my attention.
<|_=00=_|>
Daddy Day Care was a sweet and simple movie that I enjoyed quite a bit
actually, I really don't think it needed a sequel of any sorts. As you
may have seen in many of my reviews for his films, I am a huge Cuba
Gooding Jr. fan and he is MUCH better than the turds like this that he
is producing now a days. I will say I expected much worse, so that's a
compliment I can give it I suppose. The really sad thing about this
movie is that it's obvious Cuba is trying his heart out for this movie
to be good. He's no Eddie Murphy but his effort his very much
appreciated, I just wish it was in a much better movie. The kids have
no depth to them, they're annoying and they certainly can't act, they
look like that just kids. It's a film of unfunny gags for toddlers, and
it just has no real heart or soul to the movie other than the
relationship of Cuba, his son and Cuba's father which is superbly
played by Richard Gant.

Performances. Cuba Gooding tries admirably, but he's still not that
great. It's not his fault as he's stuck in a crummy movie, that
should've went DTV but he tries and I give him a lot of credit for
that. Lochlyn Munro is average, and grated my nerves on more than one
occasion. I get he was supposed to be annoying, but he overdid it.
Richard Gant is up for the task and delivered a funny performance.

Bottom line. It's not bad enough to be on the bottom 100, but it's
still pretty bad. There's a shortage of laughs and a lot of annoyance
to go through. Not recommended, stick with the cute original.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was just awful. The plot is 2 guys who run a day care decide
to take over a day camp. One of the guys, Charlie, is at odds with the
guy who runs the other more fancy camp. Charlie doesn't want that guy
to take over the older camp. Some of the "funny" parts were the
cleaning up of the camp. It's always so funny to see someone fall
through a roof while hammering or cleaning up a nasty bathroom. It will
have you rolling in the floor, NOT!! So, the ending is the predictable
competition between the 2 camps and the other camp cheats to win some
of the games. But, Charlie's kid saves the day by winning.

Why would Cuba Gooding be in this. He must have been desperate for a
check.

FINAL VERDICT: You will hate yourself if you waste 90 minutes on this.
Don't do it.
<|_=00=_|>
Really, I'm only commenting because the original "most useful" comment
was idiotic, and praised the movie. Upon seeing the case for the movie,
I realized that Eddie Murphy was not in the movie. I turned the case
around, and discovered that the same character was being played by
another actor; an actor who shouldn't be in terrible sequels, playing
an already well-known actors character, only a few years after the
original had come out. The film itself delivers a lack-luster storyline
and secondhand laughs. The acting isn't so great and the believability
of the entire thing is low, much unlike most of the first movie. I'm
going to have to say, for Oscar-winning Cuba Gooding Jr. to take a role
such as this, he may have risked his entire career's great overview.
The original itself wasn't exactly sequel prone, but at least it was
watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie when they forced us to see it in summer camp. It was a
lot worse than i expected. Most of the movie is 'pee' jokes and shallow
kid humor. It doesn't help that the acting is terrible, and even though
the movie is short, it feels as if you have been tourtered for days. If
you even want to think of getting this movie for your kids, put it down
and get the billionth season of spongebob. So if you want a horribly
made summer movie that should have won the razzie award for best
picture, go ahead and see this movie. If you want a good movie go see
juno or ratatouille for the kiddies. Well i've hope i got my point
across, do not see this movie. Bye.
<|_=00=_|>
OK first off i was put off this movie by the fact that Eddie Murphy
didn't want to be in it, which looking at the films he pumps out now is
saying something (i have Norbit in mind) i only saw this movie as a
friend had it so it didn't cost me anything, and i was sorely
disappointed.

I had always liked Cuba Gooding Jr. since i saw him in rat race, but
this has ruined my opinion of him.

I found this movie unfunny and as it develops it becomes a poor mans
cheaper by the dozen 2 (which was no masterpiece itself) truly a film
to avoid
<|_=00=_|>
A sequel, with a new cast and new theme. The movie was a utter
disappointment, for the reasons of the bad characters, bad dialog and
recklessly unfunny sequences. The opening movie Daddy Day Care was a
found enjoyment, and a nice family movie. Cuba Gooding Jr. always one
of my favourite actors, almost made me hate him for his performance.
Basically he just acted himself, and laughed or screamed here and
there. A boring, fun-made family movie that just targets towards kids
for their innovative crude and immature humor. The characters were
either too over the top and executed wrongly, or there was hardly no
character in one at all. Daddy Day Camp is an humorless piece of
garbage, that shouldn't be seen by anyone, at any time.
<|_=00=_|>
OK look we all know studios love sequels, just look at how Disney
whores out its stuff, they make money, usually. This time however the
studio and the director could get no one from the original movie to
come back. I think the preview was funny when it said "from the studio
that brought you Daddy Day Care", like the studio ever really matters.
That's like saying, "Yea we made that one and then we made Bikini Sluts
9", since studios make a wide variety of movies. Anyway, OK so you want
to make a sequel and you can't get anyone from the original, they why
would you use the same character names. I mean what are we supposed to
think that people morphed overnight. We aren't talking about like one
minor actor decided not to come back, no one would even be associated
with the film, not even for a brief walk-on.
