
Love in the Time of Cholera is one of my top five favorite books of all
time. I was so excited when I heard it was being made into a movie. I'm
one of those who approve of books being made into films, as long as
they reasonably stick to the novel, because they bring a new
perspective and life to the story.

However, I had read nothing but horrible things about this film before
I went to see it. Now that I have, all I can say to all those who had
only negative things to say is: HAVE YOU READ THE BOOK? "Love in the
Time of Cholera" retains the same authenticity and tone on the screen
as it did on the page. Yes, the characters are strange people, but that
is what makes them memorable; we see parts of ourselves in them and
parts of their culture that molded them into who they were. Bardem's
Florentino is being called a "creepy" "stalker", but his actions in the
novel are no different then those on the screen and reflect the passion
and desperation of the world he lives in. Fermina is being called
"cold" and "unlikable", but in the novel that's what she is; a haughty,
proud woman who keeps her heart buried.

I know the number of bad reviews out there will undoubtedly outnumber
the good ones. I don't care. I urge you to go see this film. The novel
it follows is a classic and is one of the greatest love stories of all
time. Its characters are not perfect, they are human. The scenery,
costumes, and overall atmosphere of the film are authentic and moving.
But at the heart of the images, there is a love story that is timeless,
character traits that hit close to home, and a happy ending that it
seems few of us find.

This is why we watch movies. It's not the entertainment, the
celebrities, or the technological feats. It is the stories that make us
think, that cause us to question the world we live in. We all didn't
watch "To Kill a Mockingbird" for the comedy or memorable performances
(though they were). We watched it for the time it portrayed, the people
it involved, and the message that made us ponder what our world was,
is, and is going to be.

"Love in the Time of Cholera" is a movie about us. The faults,
successes, failures, and dreams we all have. It is worth anyone's time
to see it at least once.
<|_=00=_|>
The film, composed by all the talents making it, does a terrific job of
capturing the essence of the book. Fantastic work! Congratulations to
all! As much as I believe that cinema has the potential to be the most
powerful and greatest art, it can only come very close to greatness
when the job is an adaptation of the most magnificent novel ever
written. The same is true when trying to adapt Shakespeare or convey
the power of any genius' work like in films about van Gogh, Pollock,
Zola, etc.

From my point of view, I felt that the challenge in adapting the book
was, for the most part, one of ellipsis, i.e. what do you keep and what
do you remove? The scenes and lines of dialogue in the film taken
directly from the book create a tapestry of brilliant surgery, if not
"the perfect essence" of the book, certainly a brilliant essence or
cinematic interpretation. 

But unfortunately for me, one who has been tortured for twenty years by
the sting of the book's many poetic details and minutia, it is hard not
to gasp at what is missing. Before viewing the film, I prepared myself
for a 138 minute distillation of an incredibly rich and detailed prose
manuscript of 348 pages. I thought then, and I realize now, that it
would take a ten or twelve hour filmed version of the book to sate my
twenty-year damaged psyche, but I am not so deranged as to hold it
against a two hour film adaptation of the masterwork. The film stands
by itself. It is a magnificent work. Maybe it couldn't be better. It
just doesn't capture all of Marquez. It can't. An American audience,
even an educated, worldly one, is still formed and informed by our
Puritan society. People don't make movies in Hollywood about coveting
another man's wife, dumping your fourteen year old lover (resulting in
her suicide) to pursue the woman you really love, and so on, and so
on... The film had to make comprises to get an 'R' rating and not cause
our repressed and fearful media, and good white Christian core to flip
out. Compromise drives Hollywood. Compromise drives the business of
movies. Compromise does not play a role in world of Marquez's
characters.

I believe and hope that, very soon, the film and book will become
organically linked as closely as any film and book can be. It may even
create a bond as strong as the Puzo/ Godfather/Coppola connection. I
certainly hope so. It could create an artistic and cultural advance
which is so vital for humankind, and becoming more difficult to achieve
in an impossible-to-believe world of re-emerging fundamentalists who
are hell-bent on pummeling us all back into the stone age.

I applaud all of principals who made this wonderful movie.

Bravo!

Viewers of "Love in the Time of Cholera" will gain more insight into
what love really means.
<|_=00=_|>
If I had to choose between cholera and sitting through this movie
again, I'd choose cholera, it's far less painful. While the
cinematography is great and the soundtrack beautiful, the rest of the
movie is the stellar opposite.

The story fails to be romantic in any way. The lead actress has no
chemistry with any of the actors she's supposed to be attracted to, and
they don't have much chemistry with her either. There are cameos
galore, but with no real purpose, except maybe that the actors wanted
their names on the the cast list for what they hoped would be as lauded
a movie as was the book on which it was based.

While the lead actress plays the same role throughout the movie, even
though she doesn't pass as a teenager, much less as a 72 year old
woman, even with extensive make-up, the lead male role is inexplicably
split between two actors - the later being Bardem who, because of the
excessive make-up and blush applied to him is supposed to pass as a 20
year old, more so than the 29 year old actor who had played the
character in his teens. This reveals another major problem of this
film, all the actors always have on too much make-up, even when it is
not needed, and this is particularly distracting when you see a
close-up on the actors on the big screen of a theatre, and all you see
is foundation and blush. The actors seem to age at different rates, and
with no dates or indication of how much time has passed between scenes,
it all becomes very difficult to follow, particularly when other
characters, such as Bardem's character's mother, don't age at all,
they're just fortunate enough to become senile.

Most of the acting is on par with a bad telenovela, and even in the few
cases where the actors give good performances, such as Hector Elizondo,
there's no depth to the character. At one point you're lead to believe
that his character has died and that Bardem's character has taken over
the business, only to have him pop up again half an hour later to
announce that he's retiring. Most of the actors muddle through strained
accents, none of which match up, and the most hilariously out of place
is John Leguizamo, who plays his character as if he's the lovechild of
his characters from Moulin Rouge and Spawn, but with a heavy New York
accent this time.

There's no sense of love between any of the characters, not even
familial love between the uncle and nephew, as the uncle is quick to
accuse his nephew of coming to see him only because he wants something.
As far as romantic love, the lead actress doesn't seem to love Bardem's
character at all, let alone her husband. And Bardem's character just
comes off as a strange, disturbing stalker, who so "loves" and is
committed to the woman he pursues, that he sleeps with any woman that
walks by, including his 16 year old niece (or some other relative).
None of the lead characters are in the least bit even likable, so it's
difficult to feel any empathy for anything they're supposed to be
feeling or going through.

I admit, there are a few laughs in this film, unfortunately, most of
them don't seem to be intentional. In the end, they hardly make up for
having to sit through more than two hours of characters you don't
really care about. I found myself envying the characters that died in
the film - at least they didn't have to stay for the end.
<|_=00=_|>
For devotees of Gabriel García Márquez this unprofessional adaptation
of his sweepingly romantic novel 'El amor en los tiempos del cólera'
will sadly disappoint. Ronald Harwood's screenplay is a patchwork quilt
that attempts to tell the story of longing for love in the manner of a
novella/travelogue and despite the presence of some very fine actors in
the key roles, director Mike Newell forgets to grasp the atmosphere
that makes the original novel ethereal.

Young Florentino Ariza (Unax Ugalde) is a poor dreamer working as a
telegraph operator and sees and falls in love with young Fermina Daza
(Giovanna Mezzogiorno), daughter of a wealthy mule trader Lorenzo Daza
(John Leguizamo) who upon hearing of the infatuation whisks Fermina
away as Florentino pledges undying love and fidelity to Fermina.
Florentino's mother Tránsito (Fernanda Montenegro), his uncle Leo
(Hector Elizondo), and his friend Lotario Thugut (Liev Schreiber)
comfort him and try to encourage his mating with another woman, but as
Florentino matures (now Javier Bardem) even the long list of sexual
encounters cannot turn his mind away from Fermina. Fermina marries Dr.
Juvenal Urbino (Benjamin Bratt), travels widely, has his child and
ultimately discovers her husband's infidelity. Florentino inherits his
Uncle's shipping wealth, becoming one of the wealthy class that would
have made him an eligible suitor for Fermina when he originally met
her. But time changes everything except Florentino's commitment to
Fermina and after the death of Dr. Urbino, he has the chance to realize
his long awaited dream of being with the now 70+ year old lover.

The story spans fifty years in an unnamed city in Columbia (here
Cartagena) and across the beauty of both South America and Europe. All
of the basic elements are in place: the important missing piece is the
magic of Gabriel García Márquez's prose. The huge cast is wasted on a
script that is less than pedestrian: Javier Bardem tries to make
Florentino a credible sympathetic character but is stuck in the mud of
his lines; the brilliant Fernanda Montenegro attempts to paste together
the pared down role of Florentino's mother; an unremarkable Giovanna
Mezzogiorno fails to make Fermina worthy of Florentino's devotion; John
Leguizamo is grossly and embarrassingly miscast; fine actors such as
Unax Ugalde, Liev Schrieber, Catalina Sandino Moreno, Ana Claudia
Talancón, Hector Elizondo and others are little more than cardboard
caricatures of the original creations.

One wonders how Newell and Harwood could have strayed so far from the
mark of the potential that this beautiful novel promised as a cinematic
transition. But what resulted from their collaboration is an overlong,
boring, and sloppy version of the original story. Sad to see fine
actors wasted in this film. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Quick, before the general release on Friday change the silent movie
line back to "My God, this is longer than sorrow". What did she mumble
instead, was it "interminable"? Why was that wonderful line changed?

I so loved the book, I cannot get an unbiased grip on the movie. My
mind elaborated it favorably but with simultaneous disappointment over
deviations like the "sorrow" line. "Forever" worked better in the book
as the boat was ordered to return upstream. I do wish it had closed
with the "ripple" video that is on the internet.

The film touched too many threads while missing the book's soul, like
trying to read Fermina's heart on her tongue. Maybe it isn't possible
for a movie to do justice to any masterpiece but Florentino's
long-standing relationships with the widows are as important as the
"body count". 

Young Fermina was too old, as was America. I would have cast a
15-year-old as the young Fermina and have had her reappear as America
with died hair or similar artifice. I cannot forgive the script for
ignoring the perversion and her suicide. I would have rather America
had been entirely written out.

Bardem was the perfect Florentino. Fernanda Montenegro and Hector
Elizondo gave terrific performances. Marcela Mar is such a heart-throb
I nearly forgive her for being twice her age. Cartagena was
underplayed. The Shakira soundtrack was ideal.

I'll reluctantly recommend the movie but won't shake peoples' shoulders
as I do when I tell them that they must read the book.
<|_=00=_|>
I never read the book, I never read a review, I had no idea what I was
getting into when I went to a film festival screening of this film.
It's not hard to imagine that the book must have been a romantic
experience chronicling a man's love for a woman spanning decades, it's
also not hard understanding why you would want to take this story and
turn it into a movie.

What is hard to do is sit through it.

There is obviously a lot of hard work and craftsman ship on display.
Whatever the budget was, most of it made it to the screen  which
cannot be said for most productions. However, it's never clear what the
tone is, is this a comedy or a drama? Films can have it both ways and
win, but here it seems to be they shot it two ways and weren't sure
which way to goso they did both. Bardem's character, Florentino, seems
to go between being Chaplin and Norman Bates with his bowler's cap &
comedic reactions on the one hand and his obsession with his crazy
mother who arranges trysts for him on the other. His character at times
seems to be brilliant and charming, and at others borderline mentally
retarded.

Complicating matters here, Florentino is played by two actors, Unax
Ugalde as a teen and Bardem later in life. The choice to swap out the
Ugalde for Bardem comes at a strange point in the story, it's when
Fermina, the love interest, has not seen him in sometime. This might
sound like the perfect point to swap out, but with Fermina played by
the beautiful Giovanna Mezzogiorno though most of the film, it's
confusing when Bardem steps in now as Florentino. It is here that the
Fermina dumps Florentino with really no explanation, but most will feel
for her decision as in a span of time that has not touched her...he as
aged horrifically! And on top of that, this old man before her seems to
be firing on a few lost cylinders. Is this a boy in love, or a
psychotic about to rampage? You be the judge. Stalker.

For his time on screen as Florentino, Ugalde is saddled with a
prosthetic nose hoisted upon him to resemble Bardem. This is a HUGE
mistake, as is, frankly ALL the make-up in this film which could single
handedly be the death blow to the film because it is uniformly so bad
that for most of the presentation you simply cannot take your eyes off
of it. That fake nose, that fake beard, and Mezzogiorno in her 70's she
doesn't look a day over 30.

As mentioned, I did not read the book, but it seems the adaptation here
may be too faithful, jamming in every aspect of the book. Part of what
makes an adaptation difficult to pull off is the knowledge of what to
leave out, and in some cases what to add! Here you're treated to so
much information, so many locations (and lots of frighteningly bad
make-up) the "romance" is left to the wolves.

When Florentino and Fermina finally do get together in the end of the
film, it's a relief, not to see them together, but to think the film
will be over soon...but it's NOT. It goes on as now he must win her
over! This film is filled with good intentions...and we know where that
will sometimes get you.

Bardem is lucky NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN opens this week, so anyone who
caught this Colombian train wreck can get the bad taste out of their
mouth.
<|_=00=_|>
The greatest challenge for filmmakers of period pieces is to infuse the
work with some degree of relevance to modern culture. Perhaps in order
to feed the current appetite for anti-hero male fantasies of social
revenge and success, Mike Newell has managed to flesh out the sexual
journey of it's retro-nerd protagonist, replete with the popular
contagion of entitlement and now-expected rewards of conquest.

Gabriel García Márquez' 1985 novel "Love in the Time of Cholera"
remains a testament to Romance as Illusion, and Love as a higher
calling to those with the maturity and understanding of humanity to
appreciate it. However, in Newell's ambitious adaptation, save for the
characters aging fifty-odd years, there is neither much maturity nor
understanding of humanity. 

When the neophyte romantic Florentino Ariza (Unax Ugalde) spies the
young Fermina (Giovanna Mezzogiorno) promenading through the plaza one
day, he is forever smitten. Captivated by her beauty, (a mystery due to
the irredeemable casting blunder), he pledges to remain a virgin until
they can be together. After a heated exchange of letters, a sweet
minstrel stroll in her courtyard, and a long-distance barrage of
telegraphed yearnings, Fermina harshly rejects him citing the temporary
insanity of youth. At this point all passion exits the film for good. 

Fermina 's father (John Leguizamo, who inexplicably transports Queens
gang-tough shtick to 19th century Columbia) manages to broker his
daughter to Juvenal Urbino, a successful doctor (Benjamin Bratt) after
she recovers nicely from a false bout of cholera. The doctor too, you
see, is so taken with his patient's beauty he must have her for his
own. Maybe there is more in the water down there than cholera--
something that addles the senses of men. The lovely Catalina Sandino
Moreno as one of Fermina's countryside ladies-in-waiting outshines
Fermina in every scene they share. You wonder why the men aren't lining
up to place a bid on her.

Fast forward to an older Florentino (now played by Javier Bardem) using
sex with women, lots of women, to alleviate the pain of his separation
from Fermina. His pain endures for more than fifty years. Did I mention
he alleviates his pain with lots and lots of women? Pain never looked
so good.

Part drama, part comedy, there is a curious tone to this movie: it's
difficult to tell where the laughs were intended. At first what seems
like a camp-romp, purposely anachronistic and self-reflexive, the movie
confounds when it appears that the actors are playing it for real. Due
to the nerdy fecklessness of the young Florentino, we're willing to
overlook some of the earlier stilted moments. Yet there is some
dialogue so unfortunate (supposedly lifted verbatim from the
rumination-heavy novel), that it's doubtful it could be uttered out
loud in any century with a straight face. 

Bardem, one of a handful of actors who can elicit our investment in his
character no matter how despicable and self-serving his actions,
carries the film. (Ugalde, who plays the younger Florentino as a puppy
dog eyed Romeo, who looks like he could be Bardem's younger brother,
deftly sets up the delusional character's obsessive nature that is
handed off like a baton for Bardem to carry the rest of his days.)
Giovanna Mezzogiorno on the other hand, must age from late teens to her
seventies, and she does so less convincingly. The filmmakers evidently
didn't trust that audiences could overlook the horror of an older
actress to take us from maturity on. 

Bratt must make the transformation across the years as well, but the
three of them seem to decompose at different rates, making for a few
jarring scenes. Some critics have lauded the make-up crew's
accomplishments. Frankly, the pancake looks as though it's in danger of
sliding from faces in the jungle heat. Bardem, alone here in the
ability to age in voice, posture, tempo and demeanor, in addition to
the cosmetics, helps provide a signpost as to where we are in the life
cycle-- just in case Florentino's ever-growing list of sexual conquests
doesn't mark the time clearly enough.

What's lacking most in the script by Ronald Harwood (so adept with his
exquisite "Diving Bell and the Butterfly") is a thriving spirit, a
transcendence, an irony. The movie is simply a superficial accrual of
loathing: Florentino's of society, of Love, of the fate that denies him
earthly happiness and which spurs his mission to bed more than 600
women in order to drive out the demon of Fermina that possesses him;
Fermina's of herself as her body has the audacity to age, of her fading
beauty, and of her husband's wandering eye. (Such is the fate of women
whose sense of self-worth relies solely on their appearance.) Even at
seventy, she still can't bear to make love with the lights on. You'd
hope that she would grow comfortable in her own skin at some point in
her life. Lucky for her, decrepit old Florentino doesn't see her as she
really is-- he's still imagining her as a youthful sprite from a bygone
time.

The novel is a rich examination of love in its many incarnations with
deeper themes underscoring how Romantic Love can disease the soul just
as the dreaded cholera ravaged humankind. This adaptation is plagued
with the endemic and dated shallowness of a tele-novela steeped in the
tradition of patriarchal virulence disguised as drama and conflict.
Interesting how Newell takes the book's passionate struggle of a male
masochist trying to reconcile his idealism, and mutates it into an
Apatow-styled adventure of a virginal lovesick loser turned lothario,
who still gets the girl in the end. 

Uninspired camera work and sloppy transitions sadly waste the exotic
locations. For all the sumptuous scenery and meticulous period set
design, the movie has the feel of a "Lifetime Television for Women"
M.O.W. Maybe there's a new cable network I don't know about:
"Mid-Lifetime Television for Men" that this project can kick off.
<|_=00=_|>
I was primed to enjoy the film because some events in the book dovetail
with my life. I wanted to see how it would be translated to film. I
wasn't disappointed.

An enormous amount of the book was inside the film. Many of the comedic
and tragic scenes in Garcia's book were included, well-captured by the
dialog. The cinematography was a superb visual equivalent to the
author's luminously written depictions of a fairytale world. 

If I'd not read the book first, and if I didn't find some elements of
my own life inside the book, I'm not sure what I would have made of the
film. I can only base my review on the fact that I've read the book,
and that the makers of the film obviously did their best to be as
truthful to the book as possible. The core belief of the film as well
as the book - that love, in various forms, can last a lifetime - is
true.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit, I was a bit disappointed. However, I knew the story that
was the basis for this film, and being well aware of Gabriel Garcia
Marquez's acclaim, I expected nothing short of a masterpiece. The
cinematography was decent; the acting, good. My main problem was the
direction and the writing.

I felt that this story was beautiful in theory: man falls in love,
woman spurns him, he continues to love her for 50+ years while finding
physical consolation in 600+ women the mean time; and when he finally
wins her over when she's widowed and in their mid-seventies, so
overtaken by age that they're heartbreaking to see, they consummate
their love on a boat. Does that sound like an insensitive capsule
summary? Well, that's what I felt this film did to the story.

I could tell it was going for a sweeping love epic of a serious nature,
trying remind its audience what love really is and how long it can last
when true. Yet, mostly, I felt that the poor man was somewhat pathetic,
that his love was forced and false, to a degree, and the woman he loved
was silly and backbone-less. My rational side kept reminding me that
it's a story, that there are other things that must be taken into
account - differences in class, differences in family situations, the
setting (early 20th century Colombia) - but emotionally, all I could
see were two very silly, selfish people. I feel like this is a result
of the way it was directed, and perhaps edited as well. The tone was
off.

Aside from that, the film was beautiful--breathtaking shots of
Colombia. If you can get past the lacking character portrayals and
simply let the story move you, you'll definitely like it.
<|_=00=_|>
The screenplay writer took much pains to try and conserve the essential
meaning behind Garcia Marquez's writing, but failed to capture the
sentiment behind each scene. Another disappointment was directors
interpretation of Dr. Urbino Juvenal character, played by Benjamin
Bratt. He seems like a soulless social clown who does not know anything
about his surroundings or of the social society of which he is apart
of. The director's portrayal of Ariza and Daza's relationship as one of
a rekindled romance during the latter part of the film, is incorrect as
i believe that Marquez' intention was to show that two characters
towards the end of their lives who had finally found a connection
because they had suffered similar circumstances that had left both
characters empty. Although it is true that most novels fail to capture
the meanings behind such sentiment, this was at most a mediocre
attempt. Out of a possible 10 i have to give it a 4, only because a
writer as masterful as Marquez should not be misinterpreted in this
way.
