
Honestly people, get over it. Stop being so damn sensitive, suddenly
people think everything is racist. People are so busy tripping over
themselves trying to be politically correct all the time, it's
ridiculous. Nacho Libre is not being racist. It's telling the story of
a guy who lived in an orphanage and became a wrestler to save it. Take
it for what is it...a movie. Yes, Jack Black's accent is annoying...but
guess what...it's a comedy, it's supposed to be one of the things that
makes people laugh. It's not supposed to be realistic so stop thinking
that it has to be.

Go watch the movie. It's funny and Jack Black is priceless.
<|_=00=_|>
Much to my surprise, as I begrudgingly went to the movies with my 12 yr
old son, I LOVED this film. I expected nothing, yet in return, I
received a wonderful 1 hour and 40 minute respite from the real world,
filled with slapstick humor and total silliness. Slapstick humor always
walks a tightrope between bad taste and belly laughs. The Three Stooges
are mind-numbingly inane: most laugh intensely and some never get the
joke. Laurel and Hardy isn't for everyone either. Nacho Libre is not
filled with Woody Allen irony, it doesn't have Christopher Guest's
drollness, and it's not James Brook slick. It's not sophisticated
humor! How can any film featuring Jack Black as a Mexican
friar/fryer/wrestler/wannabe wooer ... all for the "good of the
orphans" be taken seriously? It's simply for the 12 year old boy in all
of us who laughs when Moe hits Curly and laughs when fat guys, even
with over the top Mexican accents, are paired with skinny guys ... in a
wrestling ring ... with stretchy pants.

I originally wrote this as a reply to a poster who asked if the mean IQ
of people who liked this was 93, but the post was subsequently deleted.
But to him I say, "By the way, I'm a physician and my IQ is a tad over
93. But even if I had no job at all and even if my IQ was 93 ... who
cares ... I laughed, with my son, eating popcorn, in the dark. And
that's the joy of sharing a movie like this." No es?
<|_=00=_|>
Preface: I will avoid giving specifics on the movie in this review.
There is nothing more damaging to a comedy that knowing the jokes
before hand. Since I liked this movie, and it was funny. I shall shy
away from spoilers. 

Jared Hess shoots his movies like a funny David Fincher. His obsession
with grime and dirt and everything looking old and decrepit, is almost
fetishistic. But he has grown a lot since we last saw his work,
(shooting extreme close-ups of steak and tater-tots in Napoleon
Dynamite). Not to sound cruel, but I was surprised while watching his
latest effort, Nacho Libre, because, wellit looks like a "real" movie.
There is dynamic lighting, proper shot composition, and interesting
camera movements. I guess a budget increase from $400,000 to about 38
million makes a difference. Oh, and by the way, the movie is very, very
funny. I'm talking cola out your nose funny. Starting with the addition
of (the brilliant) Mike White to his writing staff, Hess has crafted a
much more cohesive and narratively satisfying film.Though it does keep
the skit-ish nature of Napoleon Dynamite, stuff actually happens in
this film. The movie, (apparently based on a real monk, though the end
of the credits state that the film is totally fictitious) tells the
story of Ignacio (Nacho for short), an orphaned boy who becomes a monk
at an orphanage. Nacho is in charge of "Cooking duties anddead guy
duties" and is generally looked down upon by the other monks and
priests, though the children love him. After the orphans nacho's are
stolen by a homeless man and the head priest humiliates Nacho for his
pitiful meal preparation skills, Nacho--who's greatest love in life is
masked luchador wrestlingdecides to enter a tag team match, with the
thief as his partner. They lose, horribly, but discover that even the
losers get paid. And with money, Esqueleto, the street urchin (and yes,
those are his real teeth) can live comfortably and Nacho can buy better
food for the orphans. Orphans who are hilariously always referred to as
"the orphans", as if to constantly reminding them of their misfortune.
Also, during all of this, Nacho is trying to woo the new girl,
Encarnación, who just happens to be a nun with the same name he has. 

Given the current battery the Catholic Church is taking in public
opinion, it is nice to see a movie that never once mocks the religion.
Sure, there are priests who have the hots for Ana de la Reguera. But
the she is so dumbfoundingly gorgeous, it would be silly for any man,
much less one who must be celibate, to not at very least look twice at
her. The church here is played as a wholesome, good place. There is
never any salacious undertone to the scenes between the priests left
alone with small children, and nobody "gets" the girl in the end, so
all the general morals are upheld. Also, it is nice to see a movie
about Latin culture starringgaspLatinos! Everyone in the movie,
except Black, (who is actually playing a white guy, not a Mexican as
many IMDb posters have postulated) is of Hispanic origin. And the
culture comes off well.

Beck does a few wonderfully fun songs for the soundtrack, and Danny
Elfman's score is his best in years. (ironically, shortly after I wrote
this, I discovered that he had taken his name off of the film because
he was unhappy with the way his work was presented). There is a general
irrepressible levity to the proceedings that is infectious. And though
the movie meanders more than it should, you can't help forgive its
shortcomings because it is so well natured. Oddly in contrast to this
are the wrestling scenes. They come off as overly violent, and though
this could have just been Mann's Chinese's killer sound system, I could
hear bones crunch, and things looked painful. The action scenes aren't
farcical like the rest of the film, though some of them are thrilling. 

Parents should be aware that this movie could be a bit scary for
children under 9 or 10, and though the film has a more positive role
for minorities and women than any film I've seen in a while; it does
seem a little bit inappropriate at times. There is nothing sexual, and
there are good morals to be found, but the movie does have a strong
line of toilet humor and Punch and Judy level slapstick throughout.
However, this isn't really a kid's movie. It is just a movie, that
happens to be rated PG. It is made for teens and adults, but there is
nothing objectionable enough as to keep kids out. Overall, Nacho Libre
is a pretty damned funny movie, with a good heart and lots of laughs.
Jack Black even gets to sing, a few times! And while it is less
instantly quotable than Napoleon Dynamite it is a better film overall.
If you like Jack Black, Dynamite, Wrestling, or your kids have already
seen Cars and you want to take them to something else, this movie is
about as good as you could hope for. Though not especially deep, it is
exactly what I want when I go see a big summer comedy. Now I just can't
wait for the Tenacious D movie.

Post Script: Prepare to hear "I only believe in science" constantly
after this film is released.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at the LA premiere at the Chinese Mann Theater. The audience
was laughing so much at times, it was hard to hear the film. Jack Black
may at times go over the top but he more than makes up for it with some
moments of real genius. Besides the obvious jokes there's an
intelligent, awkward humor here for those who look for it. Some critics
are saying the plot is too predictable. C'mon. This is often an issue
with critics trying to take storytelling in comedies too seriously. If
a comedy succeeds in making you laugh all the way through, who the heck
cares? Were you going to this movie to feel suspense or to pee your
pants laughing? If the latter, you'll love this film.
<|_=00=_|>
It's good to know that farce is alive and well in the world. Since the
mid 90's it feels like film makers have lost their grip on truly great
weird comedy. Movies that speak to the few and turn off the rest. It
seems that even as the tools to unlock our imaginations get flashier
and flashier, and special effect budgets grow and grown, American film
grow static and stale. Then when it seems like all hope is lost, a film
like NACHO LIBRE comes along.

Somewhere in Mexico, a young priest named Nacho (Jack Black) longs to
be recognized. He's tired of serving the same bland food to the young
boys in his charge. He's tired of being disrespected by the other
priests. He longs to be a luchadore (a Mexican wrestler), and to gain
the affections of the stunning Sister Encarnación (Ana del la Regura).
Then when all hope is lost he teams up with a new friend named
Esquelta, and takes the Mexican wrestling world by storm. Will the
orphan boys get better food? Will Nacho win the heart of Sister
Encarnación? Will he lose everything he has, on a quest to become a
great warrior? Giving this movie its due will provide those answers and
more. The movie not perfect. It's a little overlong and some of the
jokes fall flat on their face. But there is an earnestness and a sweet
gentility in the film that will win you over. You cannot enter this
movie with the wrong attitude and if you don't like weird movie its not
for you. But if you let it entertain you and if you give into the fact
that it really bizarre, it will work. You have to take every scene with
grain of salt and logic must be thrown out the window. But if you turn
off that part of your brain that strives for everything to be
plausible, than this film will entertain.

Then for no apparent reason the movie does something I didn't quite
expect, it begins to tackle a serious subject. Behind all the silliness
is a story about how legalism traps us in a place of boredom and
predictability. Whether it be religious legalism or secular legalism,
NACHO LIBRE is about a misfit who succeeds because he goes out on a
limb. He doesn't give up his religious fervor when the chips are down,
when his atheist friend tells him to give into science and logic, and
he doesn't give up on God because men of cloth treat him badly. He
stays true to his faith and not his religion. This message is not
beaten over the audiences head. This is not a religious picture. But it
gives the film a dimension that I didn't expect.

Director Jared Hess, doesn't stray to far from his Napoleon Dynamite
roots. But that's okay. It works here and he hits the right comic
tones. I can't wait for the DVD because I'm convinced that the film
really needs to be viewed a second time. Knowing what to expect allows
the audience to settle into Hess skewed comedy. The film is very dry
and if you don't know what to expect its easy to dismiss the comedy and
think the film is horrible. You have to work at it a little bit and let
it sink in. But when you get it you'll love it.

If you're looking for an hour and half of silliness you can't go wrong
with NACHO LIBRE. It's cute, sweet, and you get to stare at Jack
Black's upper torso for far too long. Trust me if you like weirdly
sweet Mexican wrestling comedies this is the film for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is based on a real priest, Rev. Sergio Gutierrez Benitez.
who has been in over 4,000 matches over the past 23 years. His ring
name is Fray Tormenta ("Friar Storm" in Spanish)and he does wrestle
under the mask in Mexico to support an orphanage. The story was on the
CBS evening news and a couple of the news magazine shows several years
ago. Every now and then you either see, or read something about him.

I watch movies to be entertained. If I wanted "deep thought" I'd go to
a library. This is Jack Black being Jack Black. The dialog is crude,
humor slapstick, and storyline so, so. But it's funny.

I wouldn't buy it for my personal collection, but it's good for an
evening of rental movies at home.
<|_=00=_|>
I make no apologies for liking this movie. It seemed everyone at the
video store, from the manager on down, all thought otherwise....but I
took a shot, rented it, and laughed my butt off watching this film. Now
I own it.

Jack Black was hilarious as the monk-pro wrestling wannabe "Nacho." The
premise alone is humorous: an overweight Mexican monk who would rather
be a famous wrestler. It doesn't say much for his spirituality, but it
made for a lot of laughs.

It's all outrageous, absurd humor, not meant to do anything but evoke
laughs, at any cost......just harmless fun. Detractors should keep that
in mind. 

I have no interest in wrestling but the wrestling scenes in this film
had me constantly laughing out loud. Black's tag-team partner,
"Esquelito" (Hector Jimenez) was just as funny as the main star, if not
funnier. Just the look on his face with all his teeth sticking out was
funny!

I have no interest in being a monk, either, but I know none of these
"monks" in here were realistic figures, especially the nun: "Sister
Encarcion" (Ana de la Reguera ). No offense, but only in the movies are
nuns this beautiful. Wow, Reguera looked like a cross between Penelope
Cruz and a young Winona Ryder. And, she wasn't just beautiful, but a
sweet lady, too.

Although it's a comedy, the story had some nice touches of
sentimentality and humanity, namely: "Nacho's" attitude adjustment, his
genuine compassion for orphaned kids that the Brothers and Sisters took
care of, and his basic desire to do good despite a very weak commitment
to "vows."

Maybe that's why there are so many critics of this film: it wasn't
mean-edged and nasty enough to satisfy them. However,those who
appreciate good slapstick will like this movie.

Also, if you appreciate bold, beautiful colors, you'll find this an
attractive movie. There was a feast of brilliant colors shown. I was
impressed how much effort was made to make this movie look nice in
addition to getting laughs.

In, a very, very pleasant surprise: much better than I ever hoped it
would be....and recommended for those wanting a bunch of belly laughs
for an hour-and-a-half.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nacho Libre" contains much of the same dry, deadpan humor that made
"Napoleon Dynamite" so much fun to watch. I'm sure Jared Hess's brand
of humor is not for everybody. We're living in an era where Dane Cook
is our top comedian. So if you're expecting the same loud, obnoxious
gags you see in most comedies nowadays, you'll probably be
disappointed. I, on the other hand, love this type of humor. Just like
in "ND," the actors don't try hard to be funny. Jack Black is not very
convincing as a Mexican. With his skin so white, he sticks out like a
sore thumb amongst the rest of the cast. But that's no big criticism.
This is a comedy farce, and if his accent didn't sound so phony, I
doubt his character would be nearly as funny. As an extra treat for all
the "ND" fans out there, his character is paired off with a soft-spoken
Mexican buddy. They make a good comic team, with Jack being so short
and fat, and his buddy being so tall and thin. I tend to just roll my
eyes at many of the crude gags I see in movies nowadays, but I even
enjoyed the bathroom humor in this movie. I found myself laughing most
of the way through, and this is one of the rare cases where I felt that
the film lived up to its trailer. Some of the funniest gags were given
away in the trailer, but there are many other funny gags that weren't.
If I have any complaints, the movie does sort of drag in the third act.
But all in all, "Nacho Libre" is good fun for the entire family. I
can't wait to see Jared Hess's next project.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this on a plane flight from Thailand to Japan, and it seemed as if
I was the only one laughing. Once I found where this movie was coming
from, it had me LOL and getting a few glances from others more
interested in the food. Let me explain. Its not gag, punchline funny
and was never intended to be. The understated dryness of visual gags
and 'dead pan' delivery of dialog makes this movie totally ridiculous
and a crack up! Black is great and pulls off some excellent poses. The
movie is clever and artistically shot, adding even more depth to the
humour. At worst this movie has a few slow spots, but it is peppered
with some great 'laugh till there is dribble running out the side of
your mouth' slapstick.
<|_=00=_|>
If you didn't know a face is the good guy in wrestling.

I'm a big fan of wrestling and I was afraid this movie might do
wrestling a injustice but I was surprised by how good this movie was.
It can be a bit slow and awkward at times but this is a excellent film.

It is hilarious at times but as I have said at other times it can be a
bit slow. It comes from the same people who made Napolean Dynamite and
School of Rock, both two of my favorite movies and so I thought this
should be similar, and it was but there were differences from those two
films in terms of humour.

Jack Black is, like in many of his other films, excellent in this. The
rest of the cast is good and most of them were unknowns.

It is laugh out loud funny and even if you don't like wrestling you
will probably like this if you liked Napolean Dynamite.
