
In recent years, Disney's Pixar division, with their monopoly over
animation, has churned out some of the biggest, funniest, most
emotional material to hit theaters in the last ten years. By this
point, the public knows their aggressive marketing campaign and knows
it well. Adult humor and themes geared not only toward the kids, but
the parent's as well. The mass appeal? Mom and dad can now take their
eight year old to the local multiplex and fork over the steep price of
admission without wasting it on a two hour long power nap. Last
quarter's CGI constructed Pixar extravaganza "Up" captured audiences'
hearts, imaginations and pocket books, raking in a less than modest 292
mil at the box office, making it one of the highest grossing animated
films of all time. Along comes "Fantastic Mr. Fox", helmed by auteur
Wes Anderson, a crack team at Twentieth-Century Fox (Yes, I said Fox)
and Indian Paintbrush, one of Wes' collaborators on his predecessor
"The Darjeeling Limited". If there's one thing that's detrimental to
the Trump-like successes of the Disney powerhouse, it's a new found
competitionlet the games begin.

"Fantastic Mr. Fox" is a pure delight. A feast for the eyes. From frame
one, it takes no time at all to draw you into its beautiful visuals of
vast countryside's, running streams and falling foliage, all in
marvelous stop motion. That's right I said it, stop motion. From the
course hair on Fox's face to the cotton ball chimney smoke of Boggis,
Bunce and Beans warehouse smoke stacks, everything's been designed from
scratch, much of which involves simple household items. After just a
few minutes in Wes Andersons world inspired by written cues from the
mind of the British children's author Roald Dahl (inspired by Dahl's
own hometown) you're dragged out of the theater and immersed in a
faraway land for the entirety of its modest and to the point one hour
and twenty minute runtime. The real treat lies in the notion of how
long it actually must have taken these top notch art designers to bring
everything to life. There are forces at play here that give one a clear
sense of the fact that stepping away from a computer screen and getting
things done the hard way pays off when witnessing the final product.
Production value is staggeringly noticeable and truly memorable. I for
one am still transfixed by the universe of Mr. Fox.

Among one of the droves of Wes Anderson fans, I had high expectations
going into the film. Anderson is one of those rare writer/directors
that manage to separate themselves from the societal norm, branch out
and go their own way. With Fantastic Mr. Fox, he effortlessly
supersedes his reputation as one of the most unique Directors of this
century. You may be asking yourself how you direct a bunch of puppets,
but Andersons 'puppets' are among some of the most realistic and
complex that you're likely to meet. With human emotions, expressions
and actions, it is clear that Mr. Anderson took great time and
preparation during the film's production and pre-production to make
sure everything came off as smoothly and impactful as possible. Look
out for a particularly funny scene during one of the nightly stake outs
portrayed wholly through images on security camera monitors. Very, very
well thought out and clever. 

Fox, for being aimed at children, is probably one of the most adult
animated films I've seen to date. Think Pixar Redux. There's smoking,
'cussing' and above all some extremely heavy handed adult humor and
themes. In Wes Andersons sharp, funny, unbelievably witty script, he
keeps all of that classic dry comedy that's become synonymous with his
trademark, the only exception being that it's coming from the mouths of
the animals he's intricately created. Parts had me gasping for air;
others had me rolling in the aisles. It's clear to me that by now Wes
has really honed in on his craft and gets marginally better with each
new picture. 

Wes Anderson, with his creative brain that can only be compared to an
Einstein of the medium, lays all his cards on the table and ups the
ante for Pixar Studios. When asked if he wanted to continue to make
animated films he commented by saying, "I would certainly love to make
other animated films in the future." Could this be his new calling?
Truly focusing on the niche market of animated movies tipping the scale
more in favor of adult audiences? One would love to think so (of course
without turning into another Robert Zemeckis and taking a permanent
vacation from live action). Fantastic Mr. Fox is something to be
experienced. Children will love its adorable characters while adults
will marvel in its ability to connect with them. After all, each of us
was a kid at one time or another and because of that there has never
been a better excuse to pretend again.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the reviews on here I wasn't put off watching this film.
As a huge fan of animation, as well as Wes Anderson films this film
definitely did everything and more for me. There's so much going on in
every scene, I found it even funnier than other Anderson films, and as
usual I loved all the characters. Anderson manages to keep all the coin
facial expressions/awkward silences between characters/quirky
background stories that appear in all his films. It's a true work of
brilliance! This film has a 'kids film' label on it, but it's not
really for children in my opinion, I urge anyone who appreciates
animation and is looking to watch something quirky and intelligent to
go for this film. Don't be put off due to the hordes of children.
Anderson films are best watched on the big screen, so go see it now
before it finishes at our cinemas.

The only criticism I will say about this is that I don't think Anderson
should have kept the original title of Roald Dahl's story 'Fantastic Mr
Fox'. Mainly because it has been adapted so much to Anderson's style
(as well as being Americanised) that it isn't really in keeping with
Dahl's story, and fans of the acclaimed writer who want to experience
the film adaptation of his story will be disappointed I feel. I think
he should have given it a different title, like 'Foxxed' or something
(that's a rubbish suggestion, but you get what I mean), as I loved it,
and wouldn't change anything else, but marketing it as an adaptation of
Dahl's book is a little mis-leading (definitely for British people
anyway).

-As a side point I think that as much as Dahl supplies a brilliant
story and tons of material to make a very good film, I think Dahl's
stories are best kept where they belong, and that is on paper. It is
his literacy genius where the magic of his stories lie, and reading
them (rather than looking at them) gives me the most enjoyment than I
could ever get from watching a film of one of his stories.

I left the cinema with a huge grin on my face and felt like bouncing
along the pavement as I made my way home. It definitely has been the
highlight of my week, and will be without a doubt one of the best films
I've seen this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic Mr. Fox is acclaimed director Wes Anderson's first animation,
specifically stop-motion, and it's, well, fantastic. 

George Clooney's voice as the head fox of an animal clan that shouts
diversity is straight out of Danny Ocean-- cool and witty with an
overlay of sentimentality that would convince you to open your hen
house door to let him have his way. That's after his little speech that
tries existentialism on for size, foxwise that is: "Why a fox? Why not
a horse, or a beetle, or a bald eagle? I'm saying this more as, like,
existentialism, you know? Who am I?"

As the animals pull a caper against farmer Bean (Michael Gambon) and
his thugs, the animation pulls away from the gloom of another winner
this year, Where the Wild Things Are, and confirms the fun of a well
told beast fable with loads of anthropomorphism to reaffirm our love of
humanity and confirm that animals, like us, will always be animals. The
ease with which Anderson/Clooney convince that this stealing and mayhem
are what animals do is a tribute to script and performance that seduce
us into the stylistic den of thieves known as the fox lair and all its
attitude and custom, sanctioned by mother nature herself.

Mr. Fox: "The cuss am I? Are you cussing with me?" Badger (Bill
Murray): "No, you cussing with me?" Mr. Fox: "Don't cussing point at
me!" 

Such an exchange is indicative of the fun Anderson has with kids and
adults by not bombarding the youngsters with profanity but winking at
the adults as if to say, "You know what I mean." And the most violent
moment comes not from scenes with guns but rather where the animals
steal chickens and break their necks, done so gingerly and quietly that
it seems what it is: Just what foxes do and what humans must do to eat
the chickens. Darwin meets the cartoons: Mr. Fox: "And how can a fox
ever be happy without, you'll forgive the expression, a chicken in its
teeth?"

That's Wes Anderson for you: Sartre and satire with a dash of dashing
fox.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit it: I love stop motion animation. From the crude Christmas
classics that are always on TV this time of year to the elegant
masterpieces of Tim Burton, I never miss the chance to see classic
animation at work. Needless to say, when I heard about Fantastic Mr.
Fox, I was excited. A wonderful Rhold Dahl book, beautifully crafted
animation, and an illustrious cast all in one package  this was
exciting. I'm happy to say that my excitement was justified as
Fantastic Mr. Fox is perhaps one of the best new movies I have seen
this year. 

The story of Fantastic Mr. Fox follows the lives of the Fox family  Mr
(George Clooney), Mrs(Meryl Streep), and their son(Jason Schwartzman) 
and their animal neighbors and friends. Mr. Fox, once a professional
chicken stealer, decides to settle down with his wife after she becomes
pregnant and instead take up a career in writing. After moving to a new
home in the trunk of a tree, Mr. Fox takes notice in three massive fowl
and fruit farms. Risking everything. Mr. Fox decides to embark on one
last big job  stealing from all three farms. What happens after that
can only be described as pure confusion and debauchery.

As with most Rhold Dahl stories, the book Fantastic Mr. Fox works to
both excite kids and humor adults. As a result, the original short
story is considered a classic for many families. Though some
adaptations of Rhold Dahl classics (see BOTH adaptations of Charlie and
the Chocolate Factory) have strayed from Dahl's dry, quirky humor, the
film version of one of his best loved stories have honored this side of
Dahl's story, projecting a humor perhaps more suited to adults than
children, but creating an overall story that will appeal to all. 

This movie would likely have been impossible without the work of
numerous wonderful voice actors. George Clooney, Meryl Streep, Jason
Schwartzman, Bill Murray, Willem Dafoe, Michael Gambon, and Owen Wilson
all provide voices in the movie, among other lesser known but still
wonderfully talented actors. As a result, the voices blend beautifully
into the animation. Instead of feeling like characters with a voice
shoved in, the voices and the characters are one. 

The animation is perhaps the most appealing aspect of the movie. The
script and humor works with the animation in ways traditional or
digital animation could not. In many instances, the animation itself
provides part of the story. By using a more traditional method,
Fantastic Mr. Fox is also able to provide very specific quirks and
personalities to each character, something often lost in newer
animation. Adding to the animation is a muted, fall palette of colors,
giving the entire film a homey, comforting feel. 

Animation has become so perverted in recent years. Throwing away
emotional appeal for visual appeal, the plethora of slick, computer
animated, shiny films are almost unnerving. In such an atmosphere,
choosing to make a use traditional animation can often spell anathema
for the film. As a result, Fantastic Mr. Fox shines, choosing to pick
traditional animation techniques to allow the viewer to relate to and
communicate with the film in a way few films are able to do anymore.
Though perhaps not for everyone, I would recommend Fantastic Mr. Fox
for anyone interested in quirky humor, stop-motion animation, or simply
a beautifully crafted and well written story.
<|_=00=_|>
To put it simply, Fantastic Mr. Fox is unlikely to leave you
disappointed.

For a start, the animation, is simply wonderful. Gorgeously designed
backgrounds and scenery full of simply incredible attention to detail,
the film is full of such loving care and attention. Each character
feels full of personality and it's refreshing to see something other
than a glossy 3D rendered animation film for a change most certainly.
It feels like a return to a day where a little imagination was expected
in films, which is nice.

Comparing Pixar releases and this film is besides the point. This film
wasn't made to be compared or compete with others, it was made to tell
a classic children's tale by one of the greatest authors at writing
them. Dahl's wife Felicity herself has described her delight at how the
film portrays the universe great author created and the modification of
the story for film length is smoothly and smartly done. It is a
beautifully told story, heart-warming and charming, witty and full of
comedic moments.

While Pixar films play like films made for children that can be enjoyed
by adults. Wes Anderson's film feels like one made for adults, that can
be enjoyed by children. Some parents may not feel too comfortable of
the less than subtle replacement of curse words with "cuss" or
"cussing" it has to be mentioned however.

The voice acting is excellently done, Anderson took the cast outside,
underground and indoors for the varying parts of the film to give it a
real feel of authenticity which pays off. The soundtrack, as with all
Wes Anderson films, is stunningly good and really elevates the film.
After watching you may find yourself searching out the soundtrack as
soon as you get home.

The film's style and direction screams Wes Anderson at the top of its
lungs and so, haters of his previous work may need to be careful, but I
would certainly suggest to give the film a try and see if it can
convert you, if not at least not make you feel like you've wasted your
money.

As a self confessed Wes Anderson fan I was doomed to love this film no
matter what, but am genuinely delighted with the end product and
believe that more than just the blind Wes Anderson lover will find this
film a charming, witty ride of enjoyment.
<|_=00=_|>
This is such an exceptional piece of work, I left the theater amazed at
how talented Wes Anderson is. While I like much of his other movies, I
was completely blown away by this. The imagination and creativity in
this film is truly impressive. I enjoyed every moment of this, and so
will you.

The plot centers around Mr. Fox (voice by George Clooney) who decides
to start stealing chickens and things from his neighbor Walter Baggis,
the owner of a chicken and agricultural empire. The battle that ensues
between Mr. Fox's gang, and Baggis' gang, escalates into an all out
war. That is the basic theme of the plot. What counts in this movie is
the execution, the humor and sheer wittiness Anderson adds to the stop
motion figures. They are rendered in a way I have never seen before.
Funny, unusual, cleaver, intelligent, I was delighted by every scene at
the inventiveness with which it was handled. This movie is so smart and
bursting with originality, you'll walk away knowing you completely got
your money's worth. I absolutely recommend this film for anyone who
appreciates talent, and loves movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Giving up his life of a chicken thief because of a child on the way,
Mr. Fox gets a job as a newspaper writer and lives underground. Years
pass, his child is older and he wants to move to a tree and not feel
poor anymore. Along the way he takes in his nephew and decides to steal
again, from the three biggest farmers no less. The farmers get wise and
start a battle against Mr. Fox, his family and all their creature
friends. 

At first I didn't know if I wanted to see this, the animation looked
really bad. But after thinking about it for a bit, I found that it fit
into Anderson's style, it was something that he would do. So I gave the
film a shot and I'm glad I did. This film has Anderson's signature
style all over it, right down to the obvious voice casting, which has
the likes of George Clooney, Meryl Streep, Jason Schwartzman, Bill
Murray, Michael Gambon, Owen Wilson, and Willem Dafoe.

A lot of people, and I'm including myself in this bunch, might think
nothing of this film. After all, it doesn't have the bright,
adventurous feel of the recent Disney/Pixar films that have been
dominating the animation scene. I'd even throw Dreamworks into that
bunch. Those films are done by people who are at ease in their field,
animated director like Brad Bird and John Lasseter know their way
around the animation style. Yet here comes auteur Wes Anderson, who has
a unique style and sense of comedy. His transition to animation, stop
motion animation no less, is smart, funny and a pleasure. Is it his
best film? Of course not, but it's one of the more enjoyable ones.

The voice cast all work well, Clooney does a good job as the lead. He
has that leadership tone in his voice, that arrogance that is needed
for the character. Streep isn't given much to do, so her role as the
wife is pretty basic, as is the character. Their son Ash, voice by
Bored To Death star Jason Schwartzman was a stand out for me, as was
Eric Chase Anderson, as Kristofferson. That name might not sound
familiar, that's because his resume only consists of Anderson films.
Bill Murray plays a badger and Fox's lawyer, who advises him not to buy
the tree house. Fox does anyway and that's why he's in this mess. The
animals are really small and live in this world where there are
apparently small motorbikes for them to use. They can communicate with
the human characters, no one seems to find it odd in this little world
they live in. You won't find it odd either, you'll just be enjoying the
fun.

Each chapter is subtitled, Fox's Master Plan A, Fox's Master Plan B,
etc. They even tell you how time passes in human years and fox years
and in a comical bit one human hour compare to one fox hour. You never
know how long these hours are in comparison to each other, you don't
want to know either, it just adds to the uniqueness of the film. At
heart, these characters are still wild animals, as Fox even says this
in the film, and the way they eat and "fight" each other proves this. 

The film has that Anderson humour and might go over some kids heads.
It's dark in some places, as one character dies, but I think they will
enjoy it. They won't jump up and down for it like Up, or Finding Nemo.
They won't want to go out and buy the latest Mr. Fox stuffed animal or
toy. This feels more like a film for adults, it doesn't really cater to
the kids, but they will have their bits to laugh at, like the possum
who stares blankly at some people for whatever reason. 

This film was made from scratch, this world Anderson creates is fun and
I had a fun time being in it. The film flies by it's running time and I
never found the film dragging. It was in and out. As stated before, the
kids might enjoy this, but it's more for adults. There's smoking and
there's even a unique way of swearing, which I found funny. The camera
movements scream Wes Anderson and if you're a fan, then you will enjoy
this very much. 

One of my favourite films of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
I made a diorama in third grade of Fantastic Mr. Fox- a book which I
loved fondly- and seeing this film brought me back to that, only better
and bolder, but with the same handmade quality of someone awed by the
world they read. It's also wildly funny and cheerfully light-and-heavy
all at once. It brings director Wes Anderson's concerns as a filmmaker
to light, as usual (dysfunctional family, idiosyncratic touches with
the characters, absurd child-but-adult-like comedy), and in a setting
that is a fantasy that anyone can attach to. Children will latch on to
it because of its cute/creepy designs, and its raucous energy. Adults
will eat it up because, like with Where the Wild Things Are, it brings
us back to a time when we just want to have a fun time and do things,
even if we might know or thing they're wrong, or maybe just to dance at
very odd moments.

Mr. Fox (George Clooney, who else?) is a sly guy with a quick mouth and
a caring manner. He is a wild animal though, which is why he breaks the
promise he made to his wife to not go out and steal chickens after
their first child is born. He can't help it really- those nasty trio of
farmers, Boggis Bunce and Bean- have all of those chickens and
deliciously alcoholic apple cider just waiting for the taking. As it
turns out, this makes the farmers angry as hell (or rather Bean mostly,
who at one point does one of those manic 'destroy everything in the
house' reactions Kane might appreciate), and they go and destroy the
Fox home and all the outlying areas.

From there it becomes a battle of wills and, sometimes, real fire power
and acorn-bombs and a rabid dog and other wild craziness. Oh, and the
stop-motion. Thanks be to someone out there: there's filmmakers still
going through the painstaking but endlessly creative process of
frame-by-frame film-making where it takes dozens of hours to get just a
few seconds of film. People like Anderson and Henry Selick seek out the
limitations so they can break through them, or toy around with them as
much as possible.

With the characterization of 'Mr. Fox', Anderson and his animation team
gives us creatures whose hair is always slightly blowing in the wind
(something that must have been hard to attain being shot frame by
frame), have eyes that are motorized and look like real human eyes
almost, and water (or apple cider) when it flows becomes rather
dreamlike and appears like we haven't seen it before. That all of the
characters have something amazing to their features, be it the way Mr.
Fox gnarls his teeth and then does his trademark whistle or to how Rat
clicks his fingers like a West Side Story villain, there's something
happening every other second. You might figure out how this is all
done, but it's not as much concern as what they do with their
creations, like kids with action figures making an epic on 8mm film.

Fantastic Mr. Fox has the childlike wonder, the modestly dazzling sets
and production design (art-Anderson is basically the way to put it by
now with his films, from the title cards of species identification to
maps and chapter-headings), and an original sense of perspective when
it comes to action scenes and simple little camera moves that comes off
extraordinary in this setting. But it's also, mostly, hysterically
funny. It's not a crude funny like the Hangover or too bizarre like the
Men Who Stare at Goats. It's sometimes just plain awkward, or just
totally unexpected, or built around an absurdity that comes up and down
like the explanation of how to play Whackbat, or Mrs. Bean and her
blindness. Or just a line of dialog ("He's just another rat found in
the back of a Chinese restaurant") sets off a belly laugh that's hard
to contain. This is, at the least, the funniest of all the Dahl
adaptations, keeping to the surrealism of animals and humans alike,
while sticking to a perfectly dry, off-handed approach by its
filmmaker.

As with everything else in the movie, the comedy feels home-grown, not
in a Hollywood lab where everything's tested. This goes too for the
excellent voice work that brings Anderson/Baumbach's dialog to
fruition. In the theatrical trailer, when first seen, the voices of
Clooney and Streep and Bill Murray almost distracted from the quality
of the animation. But in full context, they all work, even Anderson
himself as a real-estate agent creature. And the outdoor-not-in-studio
recording of the voices does add something extra: you feel like there's
something real going on, not just in fantasy, thanks to the actors and
their "on-set" work. I'm sure some extra ideas or expressiveness came
out of this, because the performances are a great part of what makes
this world so tangible: we know these people and animals, sort of, at
least as much as any other Wes Anderson movie.

And sure, they're foxes, but why not connect with the theme while we're
at it? The film is lovely and insane, smart and silly, lovable and (for
a few moments) a little scary, with a kick-ass soundtrack straight out
of a record collection (and musical store) that connects just right
right this spectacular place of someplace-England. And hey, why not
some existentialism to top it off: "Who am I? And how can a fox ever be
happy without, you'll forgive the expression, a chicken in its teeth?"
How indeed? "I don't know what you're talking about, but it sounds
illegal."
<|_=00=_|>
I'm pretty much the sucker for stop motion animation, so this naturally
comes with that wee bit of bias, because I surely take my hats off to
the filmmakers, especially the modelers and pretty much everyone who
has to painstakingly move everything a little bit at a time, which for
folks who are impatient (like myself), would already have driven one
nuts.

But this crazy effort in bringing to life Roald Dahl's story of a sly
fox, is pretty much worth every frame of it. The man hours and
intricate designs are something of an old school technique when
compared to the latest computer wizardry, but you'll be amazed at what
director Wes Anderson and his team managed to come up with, complete
with a solid story, likable characters, and plenty of fun.

George Clooney voices Mr Fox, a smug (what else, since Clooney chews
these type of roles for breakfast) and wily erm, fox whose specialty is
being the chicken thief that he is, providing for family. An incident
cutting too close to death has Mr Fox promise Mrs Fox (Meryl Streep)
that his thieving days are over, but you know how a leopard cannot
change its spots. Soon he moves his family near three farmers Bean
(Michael Gambon), Boggis (Robin Hurlstone) and Bunce (Hugo Guinness),
and crafts his final hurrah in hitting all three neighbours, only for
them to retaliate and demolish Mr Fox's lifestyle, and not to mention
his relationship with wife, family and friends, resulting in a battle
of wills and wits.

Despite the relatively short run time, the film managed to pack plenty
of subplots, characterization, and comedy into one well oiled
narrative. You'll surely be one without a sense of humour should you
not be able to laugh at anything and everything that Anderson had put
on screen, from slapstick to really smart and funny lines that make up
every moment of enjoyment in this film. The A-list voice cast also
includes the likes of Jason Schwartzman, Bill Murray, Willem Dafoe,
Owen Wilson, Brian Cox, Adrien Brody et al, some of whom you'll know
are regulars in Anderson's past works.

And if you had enjoyed his past quirky films, then you'd come to expect
the same for Fantastic Mr. Fox, with Wes Andersen's signature touches
all over the shop, where he made some departures from Dahl's book, but
manage to retain the essence of the story, and through a stroke of
luck, finding an alternate ending from Dahl's original manuscript which
got adopted here in the film. It's comical, it's smart, it's stop
motion and it won't be too long before fans will soon adopt Mr Fox's
trademarked whistle-whistle-click-click.
<|_=00=_|>
What a conundrum. It's impossible for me to give this movie one star
because in many ways, it's far from a bad movie. The merits which it
does have, and there are some, definitely exclude it from that general
category. It is, in all fairness, visually stunning, technically
brilliant, flawlessly directed, and an all-around treat for the eyes.
It's loaded with a great voice cast, wicked creativity, witty dialogue,
and a lot of clever ideas. Yet nor can I give it ten stars either.
Because in spite of all of this, its stunning visuals and innovative
imagination does not mean that I enjoyed it. I didn't. One bit.

For starters, hello? Helllooo, Road Dahl's story? Where are you? Look I
understand that when you have a fairly short children's book you often
need to pump it up with extra material in order to bring it up to the
two-hour mark. No protests there. What I DO have protests about is when
you not only add extra ideas but remove the old ones as well. Extra
material can be forgiven as long as it's still entertaining and stays
faithful to its inspiration. What isn't forgivable is when it's
anything BUT faithful, to the point of betraying the book's spirit with
its presence. Make no mistake, only a handful of references to the book
manage to make it into this rendition - and even then, it almost feels
like they're only there because the producers knew that they couldn't
really get away with dropping ALL of the old stuff, so they added it as
filler, as if to assert that they haven't forgotten what it is taht
they're adapting. So woe big fans of the original story. Fantastic Mr.
Fox was one of my favourite Road Dahl books when I was little but the
manner in which they've twisted it here ensures that the joy which I
remember is not captured. Spoilers FYI...

One of the things that made the book so heartwarming was the fact that
Mr. & Mrs. Fox had such a sweet and loving relationship. In the movie,
perhaps in an attempt to modernise it (and God knows why, it's a kid's
story people! Why the cynicism?), Mr. & Mrs. Fox have been altered into
a squabbling married couple. The sweetness of the story is almost
entirely absent here. It crosses over the line into being depressing.
It comes complete with a fight scene in which she hits him, making him
cry, and leaving a claw mark across his face which he has for the rest
of the movie (domestic violence?). Cripes, there's even a scene where
she says that she shouldn't have married him; a comment which she never
takes back. And by God, there's another scene where he goes on a
suicide mission, agreeing to turn himself in so that the other animals
can be spared, and she makes no attempt to stop him. This isn't exactly
what I would call uplifting. OK, so it has happy ending, but by that
stage I was so disheartened by what had happened up to then that it was
impossible to feel moved. This is because the falling-out scenes were
painfully drawn-out, while the make-up scenes were merely glossed over.
The result, I have to say, makes the ending highly unsatisfying.

George Clooney has a sexy voice as always, and Meryl Streep is great
for this kind of role because her voice is so maternal and
softly-spoken that it creates the perfect Ying to George's Yang. As I
mentioned earlier, the voice cast is great; Jason Schwartzman is
brilliant as the son, as is Eric Anderson as the nephew, and everybody
else fits their roles like a glove. But the charm of these characters
has been so diluted that the actors behind them can't make up for the
total lack of engagement, connection and poignancy. Even the jokes,
which admittedly can be very sharp in a number of scenes, are not able
to take your mind off just how uninvolving the story is. Basically,
this is a movie in which they've tried to be edgy so as to appeal to
older audiences. Which is fine because this CAN be done successfully;
when done right you get a film which keeps adults and children
ntertained in equal measure. When done wrong, you get the likes of
this, which tries so hard to be watchable for adults that it ends up
losing its heart.

Elsewhere, certain scenes are taken in totally unnecessary directions
before they have a chance to really get interesting in order to make
way for the story's new trappings. The best character in the movie, by
far, is Rat, who is superbly and flawlessly voiced by William Dafoe.
But what's this, Rat is in it for all of two scenes, and is then killed
off. Man. There was so much more room for him, and instead they got rid
of him early so that they could go into the all-new (and completely
pointless) suplot of Fox's nephew being kidnapped. That's the
all-around approach with this movie - bumping off things which could
have been entertaining in favour of focusing on things which aren't.
There's a scene involving a wolf which I asbolutely failed to see the
point of; conversations which don't go anywhere; scenes which ended
after two minutes without serving any integral purpose to the plot; and
who knows why Owen Wilson was given fifth billing, he's in it for ONE
scene!

So those who enjoyed the novel with have trouble with this. Its energy,
slickness, animation and special effects are of such an astonishing
standard that they're worth the five stars that I gave it alone. But
due to the way in which they warped the story with only a pedestrian
payoff at the end, that's all I'm giving it. Dahl virgins approach with
open mind; Dahl fans beware.
