
I attended the World Premiere of Nobel Son at the 2007 Tribeca Film
Festival. That's Nobel as in Nobel Prize, and it takes the festival
prize in my book. This winning film, from
writer/director/producer/editor Randall Miller (did he make lunch
too?), is on my list of Top 10 Picks from among the 30 I saw at this
year's festival.

Professor Eli Michaelson (Alan Rickman) is about to win the Nobel
Prize. His son Barkley (Bryan Greenberg) is a promising Ph.D. candidate
wanting little to do with his father's pomposity. A scheme is hatched
which is sure to pit father against son in a way to maximize their
inherent rivalry. Let the madness and mayhem begin. In addition to
Greenberg and Rickman, Nobel Son stars a troupe of talented veterans
including Bill Pullman, Shawn Hatosy, Danny DeVito, Mary Steenburgen,
Ted Danson, Ernie Hudson, and Eliza Dushku.

It's always hard to single anyone out in such an amazing ensemble cast.
Greenberg, the titular son, is a worthy protagonist. The roller coaster
ride on which he is taken is chilling, yet his upper crust background
and bravado veneer cannot hide his childlike innocence. It is that
vulnerability which sucks us in and compels us to look even when we
would rather look away.

Shawn Hatosy is one of the most prolific and versatile young actors in
the business, and he is frighteningly brilliant here. The intensity he
brings to this role never lets up from start to finish. Nobody is
better at psycho-scary. Many will be blown away by his performance. If
he wasn't on your radar before he will be after you see Nobel Son.

Alan Rickman provides most of the comic relief in a film that is much
more dark than comedic. A lesser actor could have turned in an
over-the-top performance which might have tipped the scales in favor of
the lighter side of this film. That would have spoiled the intensity of
the violent escapades these young men partake in. But he manages to
play the buffoon as only a legend can.

I was quite surprised by the look and feel of this film. It's much more
stylized than one might expect. Digital effects and clever camera work
help take what could have been a standard caper movie (a la Oceans 11)
and turn it into a psychological thriller, emphasis on the thrills. It
is such a fascinating story and an amazing script, and kudos to Randall
Miller for being able to create a work which defies categorization.
Gasps and laughs are traded back and forth, yet it manages to toe the
line between comedy and tragedy without losing its focus.

If Kubrick inhaled nitrous oxide while making A Clockwork Orange, it
might look something like Nobel Son. It will keep you on the edge of
your seat, literally. Nobel Son is a breathtaking, refreshing escape
from convention.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. "Bottle Shock" director Randall
Miller is back ... only "Nobel Son" was filmed first (you really have
to love the Hollywood system). While "Bottle Shock" was a pretty
straight forward re-telling of a wine industry break through, this film
takes us on a dark ride with blazingly quick turns. It can be taken as
a entertaining thriller/who-dunnit to who, or even as a psychological
study on egotistical, domineering parents.

Much of the "Bottle Shock" crew is back ... Alan Rickman, Bill Pullman
and Eliza Dushka. Add Mary Steenburgen, Shawn Hatosy (Outside
Providence, The Cooler), Danny Devito and Ted Dansen, and you have an
odd, but talented cast to deliver your odd, but entertaining film.

Alan Rickman plays the role he seems born to play ... arrogant
self-diagnosed genius. His family and co-workers somehow tolerate him
despite his blindness to their own talents. This is especially
problematic once Rickman becomes a Nobel Prize winner. Without giving
anything away, his son, played by Bryan Greenberg (Prime) is kidnapped
and held for the $2 million Nobel prize money ... by a guy with ties to
Rickman's character. That is the simple part. After that, the script
flies through its twists and turns creating quite a mess of fun! Bill
Pullman is the detective on the case and he draws from his voice
pattern as the odd realtor in "You Kill Me", all while pining for
Steenburgen ... who is a brilliant forensic expert in her own right.
Danny Devito takes an odd turn as the Reformed OCD gardener who has a
couple of memorable scenes. Eliza Duska (the bar owner in Bottle Shock)
is quite memorable as the stunningly dark poet who captures Nobel Son's
heart the evening before he is nabbed. Coincidence??? What I find most
interesting about the script is that it could have focused on any
number of story lines. Steenburgen, Rickman and Dushka all have
characters that could be developed further. But it really works here to
have the division and balance.

My only warning here is to be prepared for a Guy Ritchie-type
experience. There are times of rapid-fire edits and crazy techno-mod
music that will challenge your ability to follow along and keep up. I
believe it just adds to the fun in this case.
<|_=00=_|>
Nobel Son is not an easy film to foretell, and with its constant
genre-morphing subplots, psychotic characters and unordered narrative,
it will keep you guessing all the way through. This escape from
convention is not always a good thing  the first half hour of the film
tries the patience and is so disjointed and seemingly nongermane that
it's impossible to predict the relationships of the bizarre events.
Once you've made it to the second act, pieces start to fall into place
and realizations are hinted upon, but it doesn't stop there. More
twists, more complexities and one too many unlikely coincidences might
make you think twice before feeling satisfied by this suspenseful
drama/dark comedy/horror/mystery thriller. 

The opening scene consists of an alarmingly brutal thumb-severing bit
of violence that perfectly paves the way for the unpredictable and
mind-boggling adventure that follows. Eli Michaelson (Alan Rickman, in
a wonderfully despicable role that he continually excels at) has just
been announced as the winner of the Nobel Prize for his stellar work in
chemistry. He's egotistical, eccentric, uncaring and obnoxious, and has
been handing out higher grades in exchange for sex with his young
female students. His son Barkley (Bryan Greenberg) is struggling with
his PhD thesis on cannibalism (his opening line of narration quotes
Michel De Montaigne, a 16th century philosopher: "There is more
barbarity in eating a man alive than in eating him dead."). He also
struggles with an awkward romance with City Hall (Eliza Dushku), a
morbid poet and artist with her own bountiful measure of oddness.

Eli's wife Sarah (Mary Steenburgen) is a renowned forensic psychiatrist
who is fancied by Max Mariner (Bill Pullman), a somewhat crafty
detective. On the morning of the family's trip to Sweden to attend the
Nobel Prize party, Barkley is kidnapped and held for a $2 million
ransom; the money awarded to Eli. From here, backstabbing, jealousy,
lust and greed collide in nonstop twists and turns, proving that once
again nothing is what it seems.

Every character in Nobel Son is devious, shrewd, freakish, obsessive
compulsive or morally flawed (most often all of those combined) making
it difficult to side with any of the numerous antiheros. The first plot
surprise is unique and smart, but then the filmmakers try too hard and
it becomes unnecessarily convoluted. This is where the unexpected genre
confusion comes into play, at times heading down the path of taut
mystery thriller, always mixing in dark, subtle humor (and blatant
grossness with poetry reading from "Death By Drain-O" and verses
involving bathing in excrement), and eventually borrowing from films
like David Fincher's Seven, Body Heat, Wild Things and even Mission:
Impossible.

Nobel Son is definitely a shock to the system, an unconventional film
that reminds us of the chaos of those rare movies that breathe life
into the most peculiar characters and situations. It's not perfect and
its originality only comes from the amount of time that has passed
since a movie like this was presented, but it's certainly worth a try.

- Mike Massie
<|_=00=_|>
I admit that I love dark comedies. Something about the mixture of
violence, thrills, and comedy just make a perfect amalgam of cinema to
entertain my slightly off-kilter sensibilities. When I saw that the
film Nobel Son was opening up at the local theatre, I vaguely recalled
that the trailer seemed interesting and the cast recognizable. So I
said what the hey? I think that the closest cousin I can manage to cull
from memory would be the great, underrated gem Suicide Kings from a few
years back. Randall Miller's film isn't quite as entertaining as that
one, but as far as tone and feel go, it resembles it well. Rather then
a truly great story that stands up besides the jokes, a la In Bruges,
Nobel Son falls into the trap of having many kooky characters that just
happen to enter each other's lives to allow for the shenanigans. It
feels as though the people were created first and then the story
second, letting the puzzle pieces fall into place. Don't get me wrong,
the eccentric players are part of the charm, I just would have liked
them to be a bit more real than so obviously playing for jokes and
clichés.

The tale itself isn't anything really new. Take any old kidnapping plot
where the victim becomes a part of the plan and double-crossing soon
takes over upon completion; erase a few adjectives and verbs; and Mad
Libs in the blanks to freshen it up. A jerk of a father wins the Nobel
Prize for his work in the field of chemistry, whereupon a man who may
or may not be his illegitimate child, whose mother's husband is whom
the father's winning work was stolen from, decides to kidnap the man's
true son for the two million dollar purse. It's a bit convoluted and
Miller enjoys throwing in chemistry jargon throughout to impress us,
whether what is spoken about molecules is even true, don't ask me, I
kind of zoned during those passages. However, the highly coincidental
series of events and relationships does allow for it all to come
together. The kidnapped son ends up proving to his assailant that he'd
love to get back at his father any way he can, and the two hatch an
elaborate plan, involving the full reconstruction of a car within two
hours, to steal the money clean and not let anyone get hurt  besides
an innocent man soon to be without a thumb. Throw in a beautiful, yet
insane girl, who you know is involved more than let on; a detective on
the case who is also in love with the hostage's mother, a co-worker;
and a "reformed" obsessive-compulsive tenant, and you can understand
how off the wall it could potentially get.

Again, the story is pretty airtight and coherent, besides some
logistical questions like putting a working car together in that short
of time by one man, putting a car in an above the garage apartment, (I
think you have to look the other way on this one), and just the sheer
amount of photos and documents that are readily available to prove
guilt. As far as motivations and intelligence, all that is understood
and believable. No one here is really likable at all; everyone has an
agenda and whether it took the events in the film for some to act on
them or not, they definitely weren't innocents. The Michaelsons are one
messed up family that deserves the chaos, but revenge is always served
best cold, I guess. And maybe it really is more vicious to devour a man
while he is still alive then dead.

Those story elements all pretty much run their course without pause, so
one doesn't get much opportunity to question it, or care whether it is
all kosher. Instead, the real focus is on the characters. Those that
standout are the ones with the most issues. Sure Alan Rickman does his
usual smarmy best as the aging lothario professor with an ego that
cannot be measured and Mary Steenburgen plays the cerebral analyst,
always looking and deciphering things before the cops on the case can,
but that kind of stuff is expected. Even the star, Bryan Greenberg's
Barkley, the son of the aforementioned actors, does his norm. Add a few
corny, cheeseball lines, 80's music, and delete the bloodyou'd think
he came right out of "October Road". No, where the genius lies is in
the criminals and supporting roles. Shawn Hatosy, as the half
brother/mastermind, has made a career out of playing semi-intelligent
headcases that switch from harmless innocence to manic, homicidal
delinquency. His Thaddeus James is the perfect villain here because
what he does has merit, so when it all starts to unravel, his
compassion is believable. My favorites, though, are Eliza Dushku as the
love interest and Danny DeVito as the obsessive-compulsive. DeVito is
hysterical as Gastner, going through his mental checklists in a
calculating monotone and nervous disgust. But if you want true
insanity, Dushku delivers in spades. As City Hall, she is one messed up
deviant. A psychopath girlfriend type, her actions and artwork
juxtaposed with her beauty and sexuality would make any guy confused
and willing to play along.

Nobel Son is a nice entry to the genre and a character piece with a lot
of good. I appreciate that Miller tries to be creative and add his own
flair, but in doing so, the aesthetic becomes a bit ho-hum and
ordinary. The sharp cuts and blurring tricks help deflect what we see
until the truth is revealed, and the close-up camera work helps add a
layer of detail for us to enter the movie, yet it's all been done
before. Even a gimmick that works at times becomes a little overkill
with its abundance, however, that final ticker-typed name and
occupation caption made all the others before it worth the trouble.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to "Nobel Son". I was thinking, finally,
an intelligent thriller that is going to focus on the characteristics
of those found in the academic sciences. But I'm afraid that all I got
was a jumbled mess that never really accomplished anything.

The son of a Nobel Prize-winning chemist is kidnapped for ransom. There
are a lot of interesting ways to take this story. The main problem is,
they take all of them. We have an opportunity to investigate what's
really going on in the mind of the son, how has his father affected his
life, why does the father live his life the way he does, who is really
responsible for the kidnapping and why... . The ways to explore this
story are endless, and instead of delving in whole-heartedly, all that
came out was a jumbled mess that left me feeling frustrated with no
invested knowledge in any part of the story. Another review said the
problem was too many cooks. I second that, and will adapt the phrase
from "too many cooks spoil the broth" to "too many writers spoil the
story". Only two screenwriters were credited, but I'm willing to bet
there were more with their hands in it.

The actors were all quite good, I'm sure. It's the characters that I'm
more confused about. Whenever they presented a scene which echoed my
experiences in the ivory tower of science, they usually followed that
up with a scene that didn't make sense based on what we knew about the
characters. Perhaps I was focusing too much on specifics, but I was
continuously confused and frustrated by their characterization and
story ideas. Too many writers, ideas, and lack of focus spoiled "Nobel
Son".
<|_=00=_|>
Nobel Son is a labyrinthine clockwork plot that involves one of the
trickiest, slickest heists since The Italian Job or the first and
second Ocean's films, a con game with more twists and hairpin turns
than a script by David Mamet on coke, and a theme of desire for revenge
that seethes even more after dubious narrative about-faces. The heist
and con game film and the revenge story are a surefire mix for me. But
I felt like I was trying to watch a great heist movie at a rave party.
Whether techno music is good or bad, it renders you a slave to its
beat. But I wanted to be a slave to the movie's beat. It's difficult to
do both. Hence, the film is a more difficult viewing than it needs to
be.

As a philandering chemistry professor who as a laboriously detestable
character drives the story by winning the Nobel Prize in Chemistry,
Alan Rickman is the definite anchor for the ensemble cast of
characters, all of whom are pawns in the script's scheme to weave the
jazziest web the genre's seen in years. It could have easily achieved
that goal were director Randall Miller contemplative enough to
understand the effects of the audiovisual medium of film. There are not
only sequences which require a much different kind of music, but there
are several sequences which would be much more impacting to the tension
of the unraveling story's pace without overscoring at all. Nearly every
American genre film has sequences handled in the less effective way,
but few of them soar into the depths of its extreme.

Rickman is the flagship but Mary Steenburgen is no less charming as his
wife. A woman can be married to a man like Nobel Prize-winning chemist
Eli Michaelson purely by being masochistic, deranged or in control of a
deeply sophisticated feel for bitter sarcasm. But in spite of there
being plenty of pleasant surprise in bit roles by Danny DeVito, Ernie
Hudson and Bill Pullman as well, there isn't much room to talk about
their performances, which are compartmentalized into roles that serve
more as functions than characters to create a remorseless plot. Each
character's occupation has much more to do with how they could come in
handy to tie up loose ends than with who they are.

Nevertheless, this caper takes you for a turbulent excursion, because
whether or not Randall Miller or his wife and co-writer Jody Savin have
crafted a top-drawer entry into the con game genre, they remember that
confidence tricks manipulate human weaknesses like selfishness,
corruption and ego, as they are all things a con artist possesses
himself, but also exploited are merits like honor, charity or a
forthright belief in good faith on the part of the con artist.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Alan Rickman in anything especially here where he plays a vain,
selfish Nobel Laureate chemistry professor, Eli Michaelson. He plays it
beautifully. If Alan would reconsider, he should be awarded and accept
British knighthood but he has declined in the past. Mary Steenburgen is
wonderful as the long suffering wife and mother. Eli's son, Barkley,
learns some surprising facts and truths about his beloved father. Eli
isn't so keen on giving up his money. There are plenty of memorable
moments in the film like the car chase in the mall. Danny DeVito has a
features role as their tenant. The cast is marvelous and the story is
entertaining as well. It's nice to see Mary Steenburgen in a role
worthy of her talent.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie demonstrates everything that's wrong with Hollywood.

The overall story isn't that bad; it's the execution. This movie is
filled to the brim with myriad plot holes, implausible situations and
dialog, lame humor and laughable attempts at poignancy. And if that's
not bad enough, it's also crammed with clichéd sound effects, unrelated
trendy music and an array of un-called-for camera tricks and 'cool'
editing. There's so much absurd stuff here, it would take me hundreds
of pages to explain it all. Almost every aspect of this film is so
implausible, that right from the start I could not suspend my
disbelief.

It's as if the filmmakers decided to use every cool camera movement and
editing that they ever saw and shoehorn it into this movie. That,
coupled with the bad music choices, make the tone of this thing jump
all over the place. It's disjointed and lacks a unified feel.

Why are the characters introduced with typing across the screen? This
is a pathetic cliché that goes back to espionage type movies, so why is
it here? Who's documenting the case? This movie doesn't know what it
wants to be. It tries desperately to be Frank Capra, Alfred Hitchcock,
Spike Lee and Quentin Tarantino all rolled into one and it just doesn't
work. Barkley narrates at the beginning and end of this movie. If it is
supposed to be seen through Barkley's eyes, then we've been cheaply
duped, because a ton of stuff has been left out that would have been
shown to the audience. You can't have a character narrate and then hide
what he sees and hears from the audience. It's a cheap trick.

The tip of the iceberg of plot holes and implausibilities: What is the
purpose of the gardener character? He could be removed and the story
wouldn't change one bit. And why was he murdered? It seems absurd that
they'd kill him just to vacate the apartment. These are supposed to be
brilliant people; wasn't there a less illegal, less violent way to
accomplish that? And what's with linking OCD with electric cars? The
filmmakers often try to make a correlation between things that don't
correlate. The Pat Benitar thing was a sad attempt at making a poignant
link between the brothers. And how convenient was it that he left City
Hall's apartment without his shoes. No one I know has ever been in that
much of a hurry. He couldn't just carry them along with his shirt? Like
so much of this script it's unbelievably contrived.

If there's been four thumbs taken in the last month wouldn't it be on
the news? Wouldn't everybody know about it? And, if so, why is it
crucial to send a thumb, to show you mean business, when everyone knows
it's probably not the kidnap victim's thumb. And how did they get the
Mini-Cooper in the apartment? Where did the brothers meet and plan it
all? How did they know about each other? And Eli's dialog about
molecules luminescing is over-the-top sophomoric.

Thaddeus spends a significant amount of time telling us how much of a
horrible person his father is. Then, instantly, he wants his father to
be proud of him and he wants to follow in his footsteps. What? He wants
to steal other people's work and mess around with grad students and
other people's wives? And Barkley seems like a dork even after we're
shown that he's some kind of evil genius. I know a heck of a lot of
Phds and not one of them ever played a Gameboy. And his mother is proud
that he's an evil genius, because I guess, she's kind of evil too, even
though she appears to have lived a successful and upstanding life for
the past 50-odd years. Another cheap trick. OK, we get that people
aren't all bad or all good. What a revelation. I think I got it when I
was ten years old. And just in case we didn't get the message, Barkley
actually tells us that during the opening credits.

Fortunately, City Hall lit one hundred candles near her bed on the
roof, just in case, she brings home Barkley, virtually a stranger, many
hours later. And wouldn't it be funny if Barkley woke up in the morning
and stretched, but forgot that he was naked and outdoors in bright
sunlight and somebody saw him. Hilarious. If I was twelve years old
again. Who's ever heard of moo-shu? I've been eating moo-shi for longer
than Barkley's been alive.

And we're spoon-fed embarrassing amounts of exposition: Thaddeus
chronicling the gardener's history, Eli's history, etc. And just in
case we missed the fact that City hall has done something twisted,
don't worry, because right after she does it, a song is played that
tells us that she's a twisted girl. And Barkley tells his whole
personal situation to a clerk at a café. It's ridiculous. I've never
seen such bad exposition. It's just lazy writing it really insults the
intelligence of the viewer.

There's the poetry reading place, where predictably, everyone's poetry
is ludicrous, except, of course, City Hall's. I mean, this gag's got
whiskers on it.

And what's with the twisted logic of Sarah, "I hope it's Barkley's
thumb. If it's somebody else's thumb then the kidnapper is a
calculating psychopath." So, by that logic, if the kidnapper cuts off
Barkley's thumb, then he's a psychopath, just not a calculating one.
OK, I'll be on planet earth if anybody needs me.

You can't tell what's going happen because you're not given enough
information. They've stacked the deck where you can't possibly figure
it out and by the end there's so many ridiculous and implausible
situations that you don't care. A mystery must include all the info
needed to get it. Otherwise, it's cheap trick, which is what this is.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nobel Son" is one of the more entertaining movies of the year. It is
an intriguing, quirky mix of quick-cutting, edgy direction; an
outstanding cast; and some unusually literate text and sophisticated
in-jokes for the who-is-doing-it (rather than who-done-it) genre. 

Randall Miller is the MTV director, Miller and Jody Savin - each with a
rather meager resume as a writer - are responsible for the winning
script. 

It's rare and fortuitous these days to walk into a theater to see a
movie whose plot you know, and still be engaged and surprised. Such is
the case here. 

With deliberate exaggeration and advance apologies, I'd compare "Nobel
Son" to "Sleuth" both for its tit-for-tat, now-you-see-it/now-you-don't
continuous cliff-hanger nature, and the sense of amusement and fun even
through some rather harrowing action. "Son" is *like* "Sleuth" in the
true sense of that grossly abused word: having some of the same
characteristics. 

Only a great English stage actor such as Alan Rickman could make the
silly cartoon figure of Eli Michaelson believable - and he does,
becoming sort of likable in his unfettered loathsomeness. Michaelson is
rotten to the core, antisocial beyond the worst case of Asperger's,
plus a miserable human being - and the winner of the Nobel Prize in
Chemistry. 

Mary Steenburgen plays his long-suffering wife, a character with a
vaguely delineated past as a storied criminal investigator. Never too
far from her is Bill Pullman, a detective, former colleague, current
shoulder to lean on. Bryan Greenberg is the son, who - as you must know
from all the ads and buzz - is held for ransom, apparently by Shawn
Hatosy, a young actor who more than holds his own against the veterans
in the cast. Danny Devito and Ted Danson show up, unnecessarily but -
in the case of Danson - not irritatingly. Eliza Dushku has a star-turn
debut as City Hall (that's the name), a looney poet, painter, and
fornicator (their word, not mine). 

There is something inexplicable about the cinematography: everybody in
the cast looks like hell, sans makeup, sans Vaseline-smeared lens, sans
everything. Pullman wins the race to Showing All the Pores,
pasty-white, as unattractive as possible, but the others - including
the women - are not far behind. A new trend? Makeup crew on strike? Who
knows? For sure it's distracting, but "Son" is too good to allow this
stupid quirk to interfere.
<|_=00=_|>
The great movie reviewer, Gene Siskel, once said that the only way to
evaluate a movie is to start by asking yourself what the creators of
the movie intended ... what they intended here, and delivered, is a
weird black comedy, filled with fine performances by exceptional
actors, that never ever goes where you think it is going. Just when you
expected something the movie goes another way. Is it perfect, of course
not. Will you have a lot of fun if you just let it take you on its
journey ... maybe not, but in that case you have no sense of humor at
all, ... these actors clearly enjoyed playing these roles and
delivering these lines ... they had fun too.
