
I first saw Transamerica as the closing film for the Frameline film
festival in San Francisco where it won the "The Frameline Audience
Award for Best Feature". The film was obviously a labor of love. Duncan
Tucker wrote, directed and wisely cast Felicity Huffman as Bree (before
she had been cast as a "desperate housewife"). Huffman's husband
William Macy was executive producer. 

The plot line is certainly the tried and true formula of the
transformational road trip, yet the irony of Bree's concurrent sexual
transformation freshens a story that could easily have been clich√©.
Kevin Zegers and the rest of the supporting cast are superb, but
Huffman's characterization of Bree is Oscar caliber. 

See Transamerica! It's not tragic like "Boys Don't Cry". It's not about
sexuality, fetish, or camp. It's a movie about otherness,
transformation, family, and ultimately acceptance. Felicity Huffman's
Golden Globe winning and Oscar nominated performance is absolutely
astounding. Her acting skill fills Bree with insecurity, pathos,
warmth, humor, and growth which ultimately transforms the audience's
involvement from freak show curiosity to empathy and identification.

Thankfully the Weinstein brothers recognized just how outstandingly
strong this performance is and decided that Transamerica would be one
of the first films they would choose to distribute after their great
success at Miramax. 

I saw this movie again during it's limited distribution, again in
general distribution and now own the DVD. Each time I've watched it I
find even more to like. Transamerica is an indie classic.
<|_=00=_|>
TRANSAMERICA is a film where you meet people who might really exist.
And real people are not only great or terrible, they are mostly both.
It is the acting and the dialog which makes all the difference. The
film offers a blueprinted storyline of two people who don't know each
other traveling together across the US, from NY to LA. Memories of
MIDNIGHT RUN and RAIN MAN do come up once in a while. But still this is
everything but a Hollywood product. The main character is a Transsexual
named Bree, born as a man but living the past few years as a woman,
only days before her operation which will definitely make her a woman.
That subject and, the fact, that the role is played by an actress
signifies a very different approach to the old gender questions. The
film offers funny moments too, but never makes fun about a man, wanting
to be a woman. The film is very subtle, and it is really a pity when it
is finally over. It displays very well that great stories don't require
great budgets to make great films! 9 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Transamerica last night at the Tribeca Film Festival and
absolutely loved it. I was concerned beforehand that I would not be
able to relate to the characters, but that turned out not to be a
problem. The acting of Felicity Huffman and Kevin Zegers is done with
so much sincerity that I quickly came to care about their characters.
Ms. Huffman's performance is one of the best I have seen. Having not
seen any of her television or movies, I did not know anything about
her. In fact, I thought that she was truly a man playing the part of
the transsexual woman. The script was always believable and allowed Ms.
Huffman to show some wry humor. The writer/director Duncan Tucker was
there to make a few comments answer questions. The only problem is that
the film has not yet been picked up by a distributor so if you want to
see it (and you should) you may have to find a film festival somewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
The journey Ms. Huffman takes in TRANSAMERICA is one in which many will
identify with in needing to become the person you really should be. Ms.
Huffman's performance as a "man into a woman" played by a woman is a
miracle and a triumphant film performance that an audience should see
to fully understand the brilliance of what an actor can transform on
film, as well as for the warm, intelligent character, Bree, becomes on
the screen. 

Please, give Felicity Huffman the Oscar NOW!!! And, The young,
brilliant actor, Kevin Zegers, as Toby, commands the role as Bree's son
in TRANSAMERICA with just as painful a journey as Bree in wanting to
have a better life for himself. Toby and Bree are two soul mates
waiting to discover one another, ironically as father and son,as this
film brings to a wonderful conclusion.

TRANSAMERICA is a film that should be seen to be understood; a film
that presents two characters, father and son, who take a journey
together that will change their lives forever. When the Award season
commences, Felicity Huffman and Kevin Zegers should be on the stage to
receive awards for characters that warm your heart and take you back in
time with questions on your own life's directions.
<|_=00=_|>
There will be people who on viewing this film by Duncan Tucker will
find themselves repulsed by its nature, maybe fascinated a little, or
trying to nit-pick the situations that develop at the second half. But
for once, finally, like its sister film BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN, there is a
film which doesn't use the transgendered person as the butt of a joke.
At last a movie that humanizes the experience and makes it accessible
to anyone who watches it regardless of gender preference.

I'd been anxious to watch TRANSAMERICA on the heels of having watched
NORMAL on HBO which also dealt on the same subject: a man who comes out
to himself as being trapped in the wrong sex. Both films skirt away
from too much melodrama and treat the issue with the dignity that it
deserves, with the difference that TRANSAMERICA veers off into flat-out
comedy with Bree's arrival to her family's home but even that looks
welcome in a story that could have become tedious despite its risky
subject matter.

The story of Bree, formerly known as Stanley, who is "this close" to
getting her lifelong dream of being a woman, except for a little
problem: she has a son, now 17 years old, who's in jail, and she must
come to terms with him before taking this final step. She's none too
happy: this means opening the door back to her old life as a man and
she's not about to do this. The kid is a total hindrance. So she
decides to keep it a secret, bail him out, drive him to Los Angeles,
and be done with him.

And that in short is the entire set-up of TRANSAMERICA. It's a road
movie about two people involved in an uneasy relationship, but unlike
many road movies, these are two real, conscious, breathing people who
tell more about their lives than any flashback sequence. Toby, for
instance, isn't just another teen with troubles but someone who dreams
to meet his father, who doesn't want to go to his home town because of
a hideous secret that lives there. His incursion into porn remains
unexplained, but many pornstars have a history of some form of abuse
and a need to be loved but an ingrained fear of rejection which is the
main issue with Toby. He wants a father but wonders will he be
rejected. Kevin Zegers plays Toby like a quieter, but still intense Leo
DiCaprio.

Felicity Huffman, needless to say, has the meatier role. She seems to
be adept in playing real people who have real stories to tell as in her
turn as Lynette Scavo on "Desperate Housewives". Since not much is said
about Bree (except that she, like Bree from the show as played by
Marcia Cross is also a perfectionist if a dowdier one, a woman who
obsesses over voice inflections and personal appearance and social
decorum), everything is left to Huffman's body language and facial
expressions. I kept wondering what it was that made her, as Stanley,
veer off into what seems to be an underachieving life when she had it
all. Since many transsexuals have gone this path -- leaving a life of
"normalcy" and working odd jobs, trying to blend in or to live as a
"stealth" -- it didn't surprise me when I saw that Bree was a waitress
in a Mexican restaurant. Transsexuals for the majority live lonely
lives, and unless they are in gender-tolerant cities, they won't be
found in the corporate arena. Many of them go through incredible
hardships and meet violent ends. Some thrive as performers, on the
fringes of society, seen as "freaks" to be snickered at. That is what
we as a society impose on them: a friendly alienation. Huffman manages
to bring all that forth in the way she behaves among people -- even how
she is in her own home, all practiced gestures and shy manners. She is
her role, down to her private parts.

And bold, for showing them -- where most actresses over the age of
forty would balk at a nude scene Huffman dives in, and even though it's
short, because we've seen her with a fake penis on two occasions, it's
fitting to see her as the woman she is portraying. Very, very daring
without being exploitative.

TRANSAMERICA is more tolerant and compassionate than it seems at first.
Like I stated, the film does not leer at her like a freak of nature but
a real person, though she herself, her need for perfection, is the one
to bring out the laughter. It may not eventually be awarded the Oscar
for Best Actress but as of now it's going down in history as being a
sensitive portrayal of a woman trying to make it in the world with her
son.
<|_=00=_|>
This was my favorite film of the Tribeca festival. Felicity Huffman's
performance is incredible and grabs you from the first scene. It was a
smart, poignant and funny film. Some of the characters are too thinly
drawn, some of the humor too inappropriately broad but those were minor
issues for me. Though rooted in some ways in standard plot devices, the
transgender protagonist makes all the difference in the world. Which,
in a way, is kind of the point -- how we view people's differences
(with acceptance or disdain) says a lot about who we are. Of course, it
played well here in New York City. But what about the rest of Bush's
America? By the way, I was told that Lions Gate picked up the film for
distribution.
<|_=00=_|>
Huffman did a terrific job of making me forget a "star" was doing the
title role. Her performance was incredibly authentic. You could just
feel the uncomfortableness of Bree as we see her start her journey
(both figuratively and literally) and gets to know the son she never
knew she had.

Moments of this movie had me laughing out loud. Others brought me near
tears. If you see one movie this year, this should be it. It is movies
like this that give me hope that some people still care about quality
film-making.

A little gossip: the director said that Huffman enthusiastically agreed
to do this film and then when it was almost time to start shooting, he
found out she had to go to Hollywood in 3 months to shoot "some stupid
pilot." Yes, THAT stupid pilot.
<|_=00=_|>
I was excited to be involved in a film concerning trans-gendering. I
was particularly happy about the exquisite care taken by the
writer/director, Duncan Tucker, and the stars Felicity Huffman and
Kevin Zeger to NOT trivialize or titillate the issue. A very good film.
The humor and relevance of this film seems, to me, to be
self-explanatory in this global and interactive world. I think this
film could be educational, entertaining and a calming influence in a
world that is increasingly diverse. 

As far as production values, I was pleasantly surprised to see that the
film did not look "low budget". The settings, cinematography, acting
and directing was as professional as anything I've EVER seen. Very Good
Job by all involved. KUDOS!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Bree Osbourne has been a woman trapped in a man's body all her life.
She has come to the decision that will change her forever and perhaps
live a happier life, than the one she has led up to that moment when we
meet her. Unfortunately for her, fate intervenes in a way she didn't
even planned upon.

Duncan Tucker, the director and writer of "Transamerica", takes a
difficult subject and expanded on it. This is not exactly what any
Hollywood films dare to present to a general audience since it deals
with a frank approach to a subject that is not commonly seen treated so
honestly and with so much integrity. Mr. Tucker shows a respectful
restraint in the way he shows his story that is never shocking, or in
one's face.

"Transamerica" is basically a road movie. It takes us to New York,
first, where Bree has come to bail out the son, Toby, she never knew
about, but who appears to be a real person, and he stands in the way,
since Toby, the young man, is suddenly her responsibility and she must
face the consequences. "Transamerica" is a cross country trip where two
people get to spend some time together as they travel this vast country
from New York to Los Angeles.

Toby, a male hustler working the streets of Manhattan, questions Bree's
motives because he doesn't want any part of what she proposes to him.
First, a stop to see his step-father is something he would rather not
do. He doesn't have any happy memories of a man that has abused him
sexually while he lived at home. Toby, for all his street smarts,
evidently doesn't even guess what Bree is really like until an incident
where he discovers the truth.

"Transamerica" is a film about discoveries. Bree is at first horrified
when she is told about Toby. Little by little, her instincts start
smoothing things over, until she accepts the teen ager as a part of
herself. The relationship between them flourish along the highways
where they are seen traveling and make them come closer together, as
they should.

The best thing to see the film is because of the wonderful job Felicity
Huffman does in her portrayal of Bree. The actress disappears in the
role in ways one couldn't imagine. The mannerisms of the trans gender
woman are captured almost effortless by Ms. Huffman, who carries the
film on her shoulders and runs away with it. Her performance is nothing
but perfection.

Kevin Zegers plays Toby, the son Bree knew nothing about. It's a credit
to this young actor to blend perfectly with the more experienced Ms.
Huffman and making this young man true to life. The supporting playing
by Fionnula Flanagan, Burt Young, Elizabeth Pena, and Graham Greene,
among others, compliment the film well.

The credit for presenting this film belongs to the courage of Duncan
Tucker, who wrote a beautiful screen play and then directed with love
and understanding for a thorny subject.
<|_=00=_|>
"Transamerica" follows the trajectory of the long tradition of road
movies with opposites paired up on a voyage of self-discovery, with
stops along the way to their pasts.

The gimmick here recalls "Broken Flowers"s trip when another biological
father discovers a son. Here, it's not just that the person who
produced the sperm is on the verge of transsexual completion that helps
the film rise above various genre clich√©s (there was more than passing
similarity to scenes from such films as "The Sure Thing," "Smoke
Signals," and "Midnight Run" in debut writer/director Duncan Tucker's
script, plus unfortunate throwback images of the south from
"Deliverance" and way over-the-top dysfunctional families, and some
Native American commentary on transsexuals coinciding with a convenient
appearance by the ever estimable Graham Greene.) 

As graphically embodied in two terrific performances, "Bree" (Felicity
Huffman as n√©e "Stanley") and the new-found son "Toby" have opposite
relations to their bodies. Having felt like a stealth woman trapped in
a man's body, "Bree" is naive to the pleasures of the flesh and is used
to having to be wrapped up tight in her struggle to control normality
that has impeded every part of her life. 

"Toby" is an abused gay hustler who probably for good reason and profit
assumes that people of either gender or those in-between are responding
to him physically (and Kevin Zegers is such an unfettered, tousled
Adonis that he is even more sensual than Joseph Gordon-Levitt's
somewhat similar screwed-up kid in "Mysterious Skin"). 

Both have had only negative experiences with family, as we see along
the way, and both have a lot to learn about the parent/child
relationship and honesty. 

While it makes it too easy for the audience's perception to have the
transsexual be played by an actress (like Vanessa Redgrave as Renee
Richards or Olympia Dukakis in "Tales of the City" or Famke Janssen on
"Nip/Tuck" vs. Terence Stamp in "The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of
the Desert") with only two momentary reversion lapses to masculine
mannerisms played for laughs and revelation, at least for more realism
"Bree" is not in the arts or some high-powered white-collar job. 

There were a lot of chuckles throughout the film, but I was surprised
that not all of the folks at the crowded opening weekend matin√©e of a
very mixed gay and straight audience joined in. (Though the two guys
next to me who had been discussing "Lord of the Rings" just before the
film started were uproarious at "Toby"s analysis of the gay sub-text in
that story.) It was a cheap shot for easy laughs to have "Bree" be
half-Jewish.

While I thought it was for symbolism that the two have a key stop-over
in Phoenix, it turns out that was filmed at the director's parents'
house in Arizona. I presume the kid's concluding black cowboy hat and
blond hair is a bit of an homage to "Midnight Cowboy."

The soundtrack selections are excellent reflections of the environments
the characters are in, from Latin in California, to hip hop in New York
to a lovely range of Southern country and gospel, moving through Texas
with a Lucinda Williams track, Native American in New Mexico, with a
beautiful new Dolly Parton song over the credits that should get an
Oscar nomination.
