
It is rare when a movie transports me back to my childhood memories,
reminding me of the time when playing games use to be fun. Adventures
were limited by imagination, and Summer days were transformed into
magic. "Zathura", directed by Jon Favreau, based on a book by Chris Van
Allsburg, came knocking on my door and invited me to come out and play.

Author/Artist, Van Allsburg has a wonderful gift. His vision is firmly
planted in a realm of childhood experiences. More illustration than
words, his books evoke worlds of wonder. The last movie based on one of
his stories was, "The Polar Express" directed by Zemeckis. It is making
it's re appearance as a seasonal movie. It is well worth seeing, and if
you can find it in IMAX 3-D, it is phenomenal.

Van Allsburg's book, "Jumanji" was filmed less successfully back in
1995. It failed because it could not find the right tone. Zathura nails
it. Both books share the same plot device; Children find a board game
that transports them into the game. Cards are drawn that effect their
fate and their surroundings. The only way to escape the perils of the
game, is to play it through. Jumanji was a jungle game and Zathura is a
space adventure.

What elevates this film is the believable interactions of the two young
players. Jonah Bobo plays the six year old Danny, who is always getting
in the way of his older brother, ten year old Walter, played by Josh
Hutcherson. Danny is looking for friendship and attention from his
brother, who in turn considers Danny to be a pest and a nuisance,
competing for the attention of their recently divorced father, played
by Tim Robbins.

The boys have an older sister Lisa, played by Kristen Stewart. She is
living in a world of her own, between her preening and dating, the boys
hardly see her. Although she does join the game late in the film, for
most of the film she is cryogenically indisposed.

The Game itself is a marvel of brightly painted tin and wind up gears.
To play is simple, wind it up, push a button and watch a number come
up, this determines the number of spaces your playing piece will take.
Two rockets chase each other around the twisting path. After your piece
moves, a card pops up. The card describes the action to follow. Danny
draws the first card that says, "Meteor Shower, Take Evasive Action"
and the game is on.

The movie is visually stunning. The discovery by the children, that
their house has been transported to a location in outer space, hovering
above a ring of meteors that encircle a large planet, is jaw dropping.
The effects are real enough to imply danger, but logic is not a
function of children's games, so it does not matter that oxygen,
gravity and warmth still exist in the house, even as it is blasted
apart by various forces.

Along the way the boys encounter a young astronaut played by Dax
Shepard, who helps them out of perilous situations like battling
engulfing black holes, and evading Fierce carnivorous lizards called
Zorgons. Along the way the Astronaut teaches them lessons in brotherly
cooperation, and even beguiles Lisa into sharing the adventure. 

While funny and exciting, it is never preachy, Zathura is intelligently
written and directed, this is a great family film. I give it **** out
of five stars.
<|_=00=_|>
i was expecting this film to merely be a decent way to waste some time
like it's predecessor, but zathura is better. it's just as wacky as
jumanji, but just seems to make more sense.

it's a little bit on the short side and i expected a few more action
scenes, but what's there is pretty good.

the dialogue is funny, but was a little more edgy than i expected.

overall, the film moved along at a brisk pace and had some nice
unexpected twists. it was nice to see that it was filmed as a retro
"buck rogers type" sci-fi game, but with modern day action levels. it's
a nice mix.

the film offers enough action to keep your attention and enough
surprises to keep you guessing. it was a lot better than i expected it
to be. it was fun.
<|_=00=_|>
There are quite a few nice things about this film. In particular,
Zathura is an aesthetically intelligent film. The makers did a great
job of not relying too heavily on CGI; very thoughtful design and
effects. The convincing use of miniatures, real sets and
chaos/destruction really brought the story to life. True, its a kids
movie. But not so much that it annoys, there's a timeless and
attractive notion of adventure. Really hearkens back to the glory of
80's kids adventure movies. The film's gadgets and knick-knacks were
great. The house and Zathura game-board were both characters in and of
themselves, every bit as important as the actors (who did a fine job). 

Throughout I felt like I was watching a little of "Time Bandits" mixed
with some "Goonies" and maybe some "Hitchikers Guide..." or "House".

Some folks seem ambivalent to the film. That's unfortunate. Up against
a lot of the uninspired sh*t that is released these days, Zathura is
very successful in creating a fun and visually convincing escape. Half
way through the movie I realized that I was waiting/anticipating the
film's failure, that it was going to let me down. Never did. 

I appreciated the film.
<|_=00=_|>
My son (age 10) liked Jumanji and is an avid reader. When he learned
"Zathura" would be the next Van Allsburg book to come to the screen, he
made me promise we'd see it.

We nearly missed our chance (it was at the second-run theater) but I am
glad we made it. "Zathura" was excellent- we were riveted the entire
time and my son THEN made me promise we'd buy the DVD when it was
released! Since one of the main characters was a 10-year old boy like
him, naturally I knew he'd like it. But I really liked it too and
thought that every actor's performance was exactly right. Not cutesy in
that "movie kid" kind of way, but very real. I flinched at some of the
older brother's dialogue- it was so mean and angry toward the little
brother. But that's how it is!! Kids are so mean. This movie did not
shy away from it (OK, that set up the ending, but still).

Even the teen sister was great. Tim Robbins, as the harried dad (little
screen time) was spot-on. Families of divorce have a whole separate set
of behavioral rules to learn and live by, and this movie nailed it.

Thumbs-up from all of us!
<|_=00=_|>
i was expecting this film to merely be a decent way to waste some time
like it's predecessor, but zathura is better. it's just as wacky as
jumanji, but just seems to make more sense.

it's a little bit on the short side and i expected a few more action
scenes, but what's there is pretty good.

the dialogue is funny, but was a little more edgy than i expected.

overall, the film moved along at a brisk pace and had some nice
unexpected twists. it was nice to see that it was filmed as a retro
"buck rogers type" sci-fi game, but with modern day action levels. it's
a nice mix.

the film offers enough action to keep your attention and enough
surprises to keep you guessing. it was a lot better than i expected it
to be. it was fun.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're watching this show looking for science fiction, don't bother.
This is a story in the grand old Buck Rogers vein. It's for KIDS. i
never watched the show as a critical adult trying to find flaws in it
or worrying about suspension-of-belief. i watched it as i used to when
i was a kid, going to a Saturday afternoon matin√©e. Excited, thrilled
at being in the theater... popcorn and pop in hand. Fidgeting in the
seat until the lights dimmed. Then the anticipation... ready to enter
into the story. i wasn't disappointed. The movie captured my
imagination from start to finish. My advice; this is for kids only. If
you're a grown-up, leave your adulthood at the door. If you enter into
it as a kid you'll experience the wonder, the suspense, the thrills,
the chills. 

This movie will stay with me forever.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was surprised me. The only reason I went to see it was my
boys ages 8-15 begged me. This film mirrored my boys. It was like
watching them in action. For the first time they could see themselves
in living color. They could see how horrible they treat each other.
This film taught my boys a lesson they will not soon forget.

If you have children (boys or girls) who just treat each other like
crap, then take them to see this movie. It has a moral all wrapped up
in action, adventure, intrigue, and edge of your seat excitement. I
really loved how the movie inspires kids to be adventurous. My scary
little 8yr old learned that it was okay to be afraid just along as the
fear did not control or hinder your efforts.
<|_=00=_|>
Those who criticize "Zathura" for being a copycat "Jumanji" are
apparently clueless about the Van Allsburg's books. "Zathura" is a
sequel to "Jumanji", it is about what happened when the Budwing
brothers opened the game box that Peter and Judy discarded at the end
of "Jumanji". Early board games were often designed with two-sided
boards so that the game pieces could be used to play two different
games-usually of the same type. "Zathura" was the flip side of the
"Jumanji" game board and the ones the brothers chose to play (because
Walter did not like jungle games). So it is "supposed" to be like
another "Jumanji".

Having grown up with this same sibling age dynamic (six and ten) I was
not surprised at the amount of yelling, anger, and resentment that goes
on between the two brothers. I was however surprised that anyone would
find this sort of thing entertaining. While their divorced father (Tim
Robbins playing the only sympathetic character in the film) is away at
a meeting, the younger brother (Danny) finds an old Zathura game in the
basement. Based on those old 1950's tin toys it involves two tin
spaceships on a track racing around space. Each spin of the dial
determines the distance the ship will move on that turn and a card is
ejected detailing what happens to the ship at that point of space. 

As Danny and Walter face the challenges of space they discover that
they can work as a team and they even develop some affection for each
other (a more unrealistic idea than anything they actually encounter in
space). 

Like the source book, the movie adaptation of "Zathura" targets
kindergarten to Grade 5 children. Like "Sharkboy and Lavagirl", older
viewers will find very little of interest other than a fun production
design and nice effects. 

Unfortunately "Zathura" it is not as pure as "Sharkboy and Lavagirl",
which uniquely refused to compromise its "for kids only" story.
"Zathura" does compromise, as the producers attempt to expand their
audience by creating an older sister (Lisa played by Kristen Stewart)
who was not a character in the book. While Stewart is fine in this role
and even provides some comic relief, it is rather disturbing that the
producers chose to turn her into a pubescent sex object, blustering
around the house in her underwear for most of the film. Van Allsburg's
illustrations are the best part of his books but a "hot teenage sister"
is not an image he has ever published. 

Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably one of the best family movies I've ever seen. Lots of good
clean fun, maybe a little bit scary for the youngest viewers, but not
too scary for school age (I think). I intend to recommend it to my
sister for her kids. I'm a big fan of Chris Van Allsburg's books. I
enjoyed Polar Express a lot, but I loved Zathura. Definitely the best
movie from his books to date. Almost as interesting as the movie itself
was the making of the movie information from the DVD. I thought Josh
was adorable, particularly how much he loved his stunts. I heartily
recommend this movie. I watched it on a loan, now it's on my wish-list.
Definitely a keeper for me!
<|_=00=_|>
It's not often a "kids movie" will keep me entertained right through by
Zathura did just that. The actors are excellent, there are plot twists,
and it's just good old fashioned fun as well. I was pleasantly
surprised when watching this movie and at the end I wished it had been
longer. Jonah Bobo and Josh Hutcherson work extremely well together as
the two lead characters and with special effects that are realistic (as
realistic as a fantasy film can get anyway) the end result is an
excellent movie for all ages. Jumanji was good but Zathura is great and
I can highly recommend it to everybody. Take your kids to see it, take
your parents to see it - take everyone to see it.
