
With Hellboy, Guillermo Del Toro lovingly recreated panels from
artist/creator Mike Mignola's comic book stories and brought them to
vibrant life, setting a new benchmark for adaptations that respect
their source material. With Sin City, however, co-directors Robert
Rodriguez and Frank Miller have done more than just recreate the brutal
chiaroscuro of Miller's stark post-modern noir artwork, they've
captured the essence and the aesthetic of Basin City (as much a
character as Marv or Hartigan) and brought its universe and characters
to a stunning three-dimensional life. And unlike Hellboy, which
suffered from a weak, confusing script, Sin City weaves a Pulp
Fiction-esque narrative which snakes through the dark streets and
crooked alleyways of this hellish metropolis like a fever dream.

In short, Sin City delivers a blistering ballet of bullets and blood,
dames and danger at every turn. It's a kinetic masterpiece of pop
culture for the new millennium (and a case could be made that this was
the movie that CGI was invented for).

As a Frank Miller fan for over 25 years, I know his work and I know Sin
City  and this Sin City will knock your socks off whether you are a
fan or a newcomer to the dark delights of his devilish imagination and
brutal style. Exceeding my expectations on all levels, this movie ranks
as one of the most enjoyable cinema-going experiences I've had in
years.

Everything works here. From Rodriguez's cinematography and editing, to
the seamless direction (no mean feat when you consider Robert
co-directed with Miller and Quentin Tarantino joined the mix as
"Special Guest Director"), to the spot-on casting. The script gives
Bruce Willis, Mickey Rourke, Clive Owen and Benicio Del Toro plenty of
opportunity to chew the scenery  and they do, especially Rourke, who,
despite having his mug buried under a thick layer of gruesome latex,
delivers one of the best performances of his career and steals the show
as Marv, the giant thug with a broken heart. The ladies hold their own,
too. Jessica Alba, Rosario Dawson, Brittany Murphy and Jaime King are
all great in their roles, particularly Dawson as machine gun-wielding
Dominatrix/Hooker-Godmother Gail. And kudos to Elijah Wood (proving
there is life after Hobbits) and Nick Stahl who deliver contrasting
performances as vile villains, the ultra-creepy Kevin and the
disgusting Yellow bastard, respectively.

Sin City is smart, stylish, sexy and sick. It's also violent and funny.
Certainly not a film for the whole family, but for those of us who
enjoy our movies rated R, this flick kicks the head and the gut like a
mule.

Here's hoping Sin City makes a mint, for there are 10,000 stories in
the naked (sinful) city, and this is but a handful of them. I'm already
praying for a sequel.

A picture perfect "ten" for this cineast.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught the Philly sneak preview of "Sin City" yesterday, and I have
to say my hat is off. Few comic book movies have ever looked good on
screen. The X-Men and Spider Man movies have done a good job breaking
that stigma. In my opinion the aforementioned flicks have been a
perfect melding of Hollywood and the Comic book universe, but "Sin
City" elevates it to an art form, literally. It is hands down, the best
representation of a comic book turned film ever. After catching the
trailer on a TV commercial, I was intrigued, to say the least. So I
went to my local comic book store and bought the Frank Miller books the
movie is based on, and enjoyed them for their off beat humor,
incredible violence, and stories of love, lust, friendship, honor and
seedily-earned redemption in the underworld of fictional Basin City.
Upon further contact with the Comic Book store owner, he clued me in to
the sneak preview on the 16th of March (yesterday as I post this), so
like a kid on his way to pick up the latest issues of whatever comics
are popular these days, I took the day off and went to the showing.
Having recently read the stories that are included in the film ("Sin
City," later renamed to "The Hard Goodbye"; "The Big Fat Kill;" and
"That Yellow Bastard"), I was amazed at how much of the dialogue and
narration of the books actually made it to the big screen translation.
This coming from a guy whose heart was ripped out by the bastardization
of "The Sum of All Fears," bear in mind - I know what it's like to have
a book you love not be given the loving attention we feel it deserves
when it hits the big screen. The dialogue isn't always the best (it's a
comic book, not Shakespeare, people) and even the best acting in the
world won't change that. But seriously, if you're paying attention to
that minor blemish, you're missing the point of the movie to begin
with. Aside from the dialogue, the imagery in the film is something to
be appreciated, whether you like the stories or not. Equally beautiful
and gritty black and white, with occasional brushes of color that all
but explode off the screen- the comic books (graphic novels to you
purists) act like storyboards for this movie- as life is breathed into
the still images on the pages. The "From Book to Screen" section that
is no doubt going to be a feature on the future DVD release of this
movie will no doubt drop a few jaws for those that haven't bothered to
check out the source material. Cold, cruel humor and over-the-top,
audience-wince-inducing violence are blended in the style of "Pulp
Fiction" and "From Dusk 'Till Dawn" for obvious reasons, but as I
stated before, it's all direct from the books. Kudos to Robert
Rodriguez for not compromising in the making of this film and for his
commitment to the original source material; and also to his co-director
Frank Miller for his obvious contributions. And to the actors in it-
the cavalcade of them. My favorite performance was turned in by Mickey
Rourke for playing Marv absolutely letter perfect from the book (and he
demonstrates one of the best narrative voices I've heard in a movie
since Morgan Freeman in "The Shawshank Redemption"). Elijah Wood has a
non-speaking role, but his Kevin will follow you home as much as Nick
Stahl's Junior does. Clive Owen is solid as Dwight (and I know a lot of
geek fan-boys out there were upset that he was picked for the
character) and Bruce Willis does what he does best as a cop that won't
quit, Hartigan. The standout female performance is a toss up between
either Rosario Dawson for her valkyrie, warrior, hooker Gail, or (it
kills me to say it) Brittany Murphy as a "His Girl Friday" cocktail
waitress. The movie is definitely not for all tastes, and kids
shouldn't be allowed in buildings even next to theaters showing this
movie- but it will no doubt be a hotly discussed film as we creep
through Hollywood's typically "phoned-in, pre-Summer" Feb/March/April
offerings.
<|_=00=_|>
Sin City in its original serialized comic form was everything that one
would expect from the then well known artist/writer/creator Frank
Miller and more. Many would come to say that it is his best work.

For years it was a world that only existed on paper in black and white
with splashes of color, but it was enough to make Sin City live and
breath in ways that few others in the medium have ever been able to
come close to. Because Miller's dark, noir overtones painted a very
clear, and fully realized picture of every seedy back alley and strip
club, and cheap motel room in the fictional Basin City it became
painfully obvious that it was just too visceral a place to ever be real
in a way that could be encapsulated on film, or at least we, including
Miller himself, thought. We were wrong.

This is THE comic movie we have been waiting for and it does not
disappoint from the first overly dramatic voice-over to the last frame
of the credit scroll. Telling three tales from Miller's world (The Hard
Goodbye, The Big Fat Kill, and That Yellow Bastard) the comic
transitions from paper to cellulose flawlessly and believably with a
grace seldom seen. This ease is especially incredible for something so
over the top and stylized like this that it's almost hard to imagine
that these are the actors you've grown to know and love for years. But
they are and it all comes together beautifully.

The cast, crew, and artists involved in making this adaptation a
reality should be commended for their service to the idea that a true
comic book movie can, in fact, be made without making concessions to
the masses, without altering the plot or changing the characters, and
still manage to retain the feel that the ink on paper had while
creating a truly entertaining film. Much of this film's success can be
directly contributed to the fantastic casting job which encompasses an
incredibly long list of a-list and up and coming celebs plus a few
obscure but cult favorites (yes, I'm talking to you Rutger) and the tag
team direction of Frank Miller and Robert Rodriguez. Rodriguez should
be particularly touted for pushing Miller to finally do this project,
and for leading the way to make this the film that Miller always wanted
it to be and that Rodriguez knew he could make.

While I do have a few nit-picky points of contention with cut dialog or
certain actors/actresses that refused to bare it all for the sake of
keeping intact every last detail from the books it doesn't change the
fact that what was laid out on the polyester film stock before me was
every bit as entertaining as the original works, and it made a pretty
darn good flick to boot. If it's not already self-evident, the bar has
been raised for the comic movie. The next brave soul willing to venture
in had better be prepared to take on Sin City.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched the Advance Screening last night and I must say that this
movie pulls all the punches in violence. It deserves its hard R rating
in the first five minutes and doesn't let up until the end credits
roll. It has it all - bullets, boobs and be-headings - beautifully set
in a grim atmosphere that really keeps you on the edge of your seat.
All cast performances were excellent - especially Mickey Rourke's
"Marv" character. Fans of the comic will not be disappointed in this
film adaption. This movie is definitely not for the squeamish or
faint-of-heart.

Sin City grabs you by the nuts and doesn't let go! A must see!
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit that I know, or knew rather, very little about the story
or history of Frank Miller and his series of comic book novels - and
maybe that is why I enjoyed this movie so much. Although, this is still
a different type of situation where one who was a big fan of the
stories might be seriously critical of every little detail of the comic
book turned movie. I don't believe anyone who considers themselves
truly knowledgeable about Miller's work can say that this was not
represented well on the big screen. I'm now intrigued to go back and
check out some of his work.

That aside, as far as it being a movie and a work of art, I would give
this movie high marks in both categories. For it being a movie, it was
nice to see something so different as far as the approach to making it
go. Also, having such an incredible cast makes it all the more
intriguing. I don't see anyone else having portrayed any of these
characters any better than the cast that was hired to do so.

On an artistic level, it is extremely hard to think of any other movie
that comes close to being in the same league. I did not see Sky
Captain, but I would say that anyone who liked Pleasantville for its
cinematography and graphic elements, would love Sin City. The use of
black and white photography with only specific colors added later make
for a far more dramatic effect. And so much of the cinematography being
so close to a "moving picture" version of comic book art simply makes
this movie worth seeing.

Take the artistic elements of this movie, and put it together with the
amazing cast (both looks and talent) and throw it together with a very
different but coherent plot, and you've got yourself an extremely
enjoyable movie that is definitely worth seeing. And seeing at the
theater no less!

My hats off to Robert Rodriguez, Frank Miller, and the rest of the cast
and crew for putting together something different for a change. 

My only complaint about the whole movie - the use of labeling Quentin
Tarantino as a "Special Guest Director" is almost too lame to deal
with.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to a sneak preview of this movie today, and I was blown away. Over
the years people have tried to emulate the feel of comics on the
screen, and met with mild success(Dick Tracy), minor failure(Hulk), and
solid success(Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow). This is hard to
do, but Sin City hits this dead on. The film is entirely in black and
white(Except for about 20 seconds that I noticed in one scene.), except
for highlights of color(Gorgeous eyes, splattered blood, and red
Converse All-Stars to name a few.). This gives the film a feel that
immerses you into the storyline. Add to this the overly corny duologue
and scenes where scantily(And I DO mean scantily) clad women pull Uzi's
out of literally nowhere, and you have all the right makings for a
transfer of a comic book to the screen. The duologue had me laughing
almost constantly, but it's easy to tell that they wanted you to laugh,
even when they lines were incredibly corny and melodramatic...

The performances in the movie were great as well. I believe my favorite
male character was Marv, played by Micky Rourke, and my favorite female
character was definitely Miho, played by Devon Aoki. It seems that
everyone and their dog was either in this movie, or lent some of their
talents to it, and it shows.

I would definitely suggest that you see this in the theatre the very
first time, because it will NEVER have the same impact on your TV at
home as it does on a 30-foot screen in a dark theatre. I was actually
able to note a few times where the digital cameras were able to
outperform anything film could do.

A lot of violence in this movie, although most of it is either totally
cartoon-style, or off camera, and some gore as well... A good amount of
nudity in the film, ALL of it on camera, so you'll probably want to
leave the kiddies at home.

All in all, one of the best movies I have seen in a long time, and I'll
probably go see it again while it's in the theatres, so that my fiancé
can enjoy it as well...
<|_=00=_|>
I'm only a marginal comics fan - I read a bunch of stuff over the
course of a year or two in college and haven't read much at all since.
Frank Miller was my favorite writer then and the I always loved the Sin
City series. I didn't realize the movie was even being made until I saw
the notice for the preview screening (if that's an indication of how
much I follow comics these days).

This movie was as perfect an adaptation of those books as I could
imagine. The look, cast, atmosphere, everything was just spot on. The
stories were all gripping and intertwined with each other nicely and I
thought the brief Josh Hartnett spots were great bookends to the movie.
I was amazed the entire length of the screening.

If you're into comics at all you'll love this movie. You won't be
disappointed. I'm not sure how to recommend it to others but you
certainly don't need to be a comics fan to enjoy it. I loved it without
reservation.
<|_=00=_|>
If I was to use one word to describe this film it would 
have to be....Violent! if i was allowed two words I would add 
'Visceral'.

The movie is two hours long and is structured in a similar way to Pulp 
Fiction. A bunch of stories set in a consistent world, with characters 
falling in and out of each others plot lines. On the whole it works 
brilliantly, and for the duration there isn't a boring moment. It is 
High octane, million miles and hour storytelling, and it EASILY Robert 
Rodriguez's best film.

Allowing Frank Miller to write the script was a fantastic move, as the 
dialogue is edgy, witty and VERY faithful to the original material. In 
fact, many many lines are just taken straight from the pages. likewise, 
the camera behaves like a moving cartoon box out. The framing of all 
the key scenes is SO faithful to the printed page that it produces a 
truly original look that is fairly incomparable. Visually its a true 
original. Sometimes these visuals fall down, there are some very very 
obvious digital shots that don't quite gel, but on the whole the 
cinematography is jaw dropping. You could literally pause the movie at 
almost any point and just hang that frame on a wall, its that 
beautiful.

Performances are good all round. Mickey Rourke absolutely nails Marv, 
and the girls of Old Town are all as beautiful as they are deadly. The 
other standout for me was Elijah Wood, who was truly chilling. Bruce 
Willis puts in a solid, if unspectacular turn as Hartigan.

The film isn't entirely void of criticism. there's some fudging of time 
lines with Hartigans character (do we really buy Bruce Willis as a 
nearly 70 year old man?) and the jumps from story to story are jarring 
initially, but once it settles into itself the ride is fantastic.

My other main criticism is the same I have with Quentin Tarantinos 
work. That every character and every voice in the movie is the same. 
This is more a fault of the source material, but when every single 
person is a wise cracking, hard boiled tough guy (even the women) then 
it kind of distills the effect of their toughness. In a film that is 
predominantly voice over driven, it is hard to differentiate characters 
when they all sound exactly the same, both tonally, and in the language 
they use. Even Marv, who's supposed to be a meat head, talks in 
gravelly prose that would make Bukowski feel like a Nancy.

Other Minor niggles are hardly worth mentioning. From a technical 
standpoint the sound effects are WAY to loud. All of the punches, 
gunshots etc are given such ridiculous prominence on the track that 
they threaten to make mockery of the violence. I actually found that i 
didn't want any more guns fired cos it was hurting my ears! all in all 
though, its one hell of a ride, and only a couple of notches below Pulp 
Fiction on the 'Oh my god that film was cool-o-meter'.
<|_=00=_|>
Channel surfing late one night I stumbled across this film and stopped
to look because of the unusual cinematography. It's visually stunning,
mostly in b&w and that evokes a film noir atmosphere punctuated with
those brilliant flashes of color. Two minutes later I couldn't take my
eyes away. This unique film is superbly executed, the casting, the
screenplay, the special effects, everything about it. As we all know,
there is an expansive library of film work out there for a wide range
of tastes and sensibilities. If yours are delicate, if you are offended
by gore and violence, then this film will NOT be your cup of tea. Stay
away from it. But if both the horror and film noir genres appeal to
you, you'll probably find this movie as captivating as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I just came back from an advance screening of Sin City, and I can tell
you this is one salient reel of pitch of a film. Think of it as film
noir amped up for a post modern century. It comes across like most of
Frank Miller's writing, modestly fantastic for the comic environment,
but steeped long and hard in the tradition of the underground crime
writers of the '40's. Visually, the juxtaposition of the rich B&W with
digitally-hued Technicolor makes it hard to take your eyes off the
screen. This film was tailor made for most of the people who have been
following Miller's writing for the past twenty odd years, brimming with
many of his trademark elements and visual style that he, along with
Messrs. Rodriguez and Tarantino, capture brilliantly. Not for more
sensitive or under aged souls, Sin City will burn like a fire that you
have to watch for everyone else.
