
Wow. If your main prior experience of Aboriginal film is with black and
white documentary footage from the 50s and 60s or with the many films
examining the impact of white culture on black society and the often
tragic results of their interplay, this will turn it on its head. The
movies worships nature and the land in the same way Aboriginal culture
views the land not as backdrop or something to be exploited, but as
almost human itself. Without qualification or embellishment, the camera
marvels at the beauty of the landscape, and we do too. The story is set
many generations ago, but there is no sense of time; it could be
yesterday, or 40,000 years ago. Time hasn't changed the way of life of
the people we are introduced to nor the lessons the young must learn to
reach maturity, as our hero Yeeralpiril discovers. David Gulpilil's
narration is so masterful it suggests he has another twenty stories up
his sleeve just as beguiling to tell you as this one. Film-making like
this is a rare experience. Let there be more.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a truly unique cinema experience - story-telling at its finest.
The film documents Aboriginal culture, history and humor in a way that
I have never seen on-screen before. 

The voice-over narration of David Gulpilil is excellent. The
cinematography is awesome. The film oozes with authenticity and was
filmed on location in very remote areas of the Northern Territory of
Australia.

It's tragic that this culture should be so remote and foreign to
Australians (what to speak of others elsewhere in the world). 

This film is full of the dignity of this honorable race of people who
have so much to be proud of.
<|_=00=_|>
For the Australian Aborigines who are said to date back 65,000 years,
the ancestor spirits are still alive. They are a part of an Aborigine's
"dreaming" and come to life in the stories indigenous Australians have
told through the ages. Playfully narrated by Australian icon David
Gulpilil, Ten Canoes, directed by Rolf de Heer (The Tracker) and Peter
Djigirr, tells a dreaming story that acts as a lesson for a young man
in the tribe who feels that the youngest wife of his older brother
should be his. The story has elements of kidnapping, sorcery, and
revenge but is mostly about values: how a community living in a natural
environment before the coming of the White man developed laws and
systems to guide its people. The cast consists of indigenous residents
of the Arafura region and many of the visuals recreate the photographs
of Donald Thompson, a Melbourne anthropology professor who spent time
in the 1930s with the Yolngu people of the Arafura Swamp.

Set a thousand years ago in central Arnhem Land near the Arafura Swamp
in northern Australia, east of Darwin, a group of Ganalbingu tribesmen
embark on a hunt for magpie geese, a wild bird used to sustain the
tribe. To navigate the crocodile-infested swamp, elder Minygululu
(Peter Minygululu) leads the tribe in building canoes made out of bark.
When he discovers that Dayindi (played by Gulpilil's son, Jamie) has a
crush on his third wife, he tells him a story set in a mythical time
after the great flood that explains how his people developed laws to
govern their behavior, the same laws used by the tribes today. To
distinguish between the past and the "present", De Heer uses muted
color to show the ancient landscape and black and white for the more
modern story.

In the beginning, Ridjimiraril (Crusoe Kurddal) lives with his three
wives, Banalandju, Nowalingu (Frances Djulibing), and Munandjarra in a
camp with others, including Birrinbirrin (Richard Birrinbirrin), an
overweight elder whose sole pleasure in life is to eat honey.
Ridjimiraril's younger brother, Yeeralparil (Jamie), who lives in the
single men's camp, fancies the beautiful Munandjarra and spends much
time stealing visits to the other camp, hoping to catch a glimpse of
her. When a stranger approaches without warning, the men are
frightened, especially when he tells them that he wants to trade
objects of magic.

The local sorcerer warns the men of danger but life proceeds normally
until the jealous Nowalingu disappears after a fight with Banalandju.
Though the others believe that she simply ran away, Ridjimiraril is
convinced that she was abducted by the stranger and receives
confirmation for his fear when an old uncle appears and says that he
saw his wife in a camp with the stranger. The men are galvanized into
action and a war party is prepared. Through myth and illuminating
visuals, Ten Canoes generates a greater awareness and understanding of
indigenous Australian culture and acts as an impressive counterweight
to the argument that Aborigines should give up their past and join the
modern world. That the film is entertaining and deeply moving as well
as informative is a very welcome bonus indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes, who lived to be 92 and spent
much of his life in the aristocratic splendour of Hardwick Hall,
Derbyshire, famously opined that the life of primitive man was
"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short". Jacques Rousseau, on the
other hand, in direct contradiction of Christian theology, was
convinced that man had been born good, and that primitive man was
indeed the "noble savage".

Rolf de Heer, a maker of small, quirky and interesting films ("Bad Boy
Bubby", "The Old Man Who Read Love Stories", "The Tracker"), probably
doesn't subscribe to either notion. In this exquisitely photographed
tale from the mythical past he lets the aboriginals of the Arafura
wetlands, Arnhem Land, tell their own story. Apart from David Gulpilil,
who provides a gentle, teasing voice-over, and his son Jamie, all the
parts are played by non-professional actors from the district. Apart
from the voice-over, all the dialogue is in the local aboriginal
language (don't worry, there are sub-titles).

While on a goose egg hunting trip, Older Brother , who has noticed his
younger brother's interest in one of his wives, tells Younger Brother a
story from a much earlier time, of another younger brother who yearned
after his older brother's wife. Without giving the story away, the
moral is "be careful about what you wish for, you might get it", but
much happens in between. It becomes evident that these "savages", as
well as possessing a robust sense of humor, have a legal system that
minimizes the damage done by crimes. It seems that neighboring tribes,
whose language our tribe scarcely understands, will play by the same
rules. Once honour is satisfied, the matter is at an end. The story
gives us an insight as to how aboriginal society remained stable for so
long prior to contact with Europeans.

It is hard to comment on the acting, other than to say the characters
seem completely authentic. The tribe's sorcerer, for instance, likes to
choose a bone to wear in his nose to suit his mood or the occasion,
just as your local GP might like to select a bow tie before opening his
surgery. But I have to mention Crusoe Kusddal as Ridjimiraril, the
older brother in the myth. His language means little to us, but his
expression everything.

The scenes on the goose-hunt, which book-end the main story, are in
black and white, a tribute to earlier photographers in Arnhem Land, but
most of the film is in colour, which does full justice to the
landscape. This is no Garden of Eden  the necessity to build tree
platforms while camping in the swamp is evidence of that (though we see
no actual crocodiles). Yet the aborigines manage to live within the
environment without despoiling it or each other. Theirs is a
patriarchal society but women are protected by the rules as well as by
their menfolk. The movie is a fascinating glimpse into the culture,
told in a disarmingly humorous fashion, by the people themselves. One
should not be too misty-eyed about this  the cast probably watch "The
Simpsons" via satellite at home  but they have given us both a droll
tale and some food for thought.
<|_=00=_|>
An outstanding movie. Storytelling at its finest. Ten canoes is a story
within a story and delves into a world that people rarely no about.
Away from the clichéd Aboriginal art and instruments - we are propelled
to live by proxy with two generations and experience their world, their
humour. This was one of two most outstanding movies at this year's
Cannes film festival. The only shame was that it was not in the
official competition section but in the un certain regard. /however,
showing great wisdom, the jury did realise and rightly so award for the
first time ever a special jury prize to Ten Canoes. Written, shot and
directed with a deft touch. Sheer class.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS THROUGHOUT. I saw 'Ten Canoes' at Cannes, and I was absolutely
awestruck. Even now, almost precisely a year later, I've difficulty
writing about this film without being emotionally overcome. Yes, damn
it, the movie's that good, that wonderful, that miraculous.

I feel a deep attachment to this film and its subject matter. As you
might guess from my email address -- Borroloola (an aboriginal
settlement in the Northern Territory) -- I spent several of my
formative years in Australia's outback, notably the Red Centre, Arunta
and the Northern Territory, not far from where 'Ten Canoes' was filmed.
I've been privileged to live with, or nearby to, members of several of
the indigenous tribes from that part of Australia. The people in 'Ten
Canoes' (both the actors and the roles they portray) are of the Yolngu
and Gunwinggu tribes, whereas most of my own friendships in that region
are with members of the Nunggubuyu and Gunbalanya groups. All of these
tribes are centred in the Arnhem Land region, so I recognised much of
the land (and language) in this wonderful movie.

I was surprised that this film's English title has a number in it,
because the Arnhem Land natives did not use number words until
recently. They quantify an object by naming it as many times as needed.
For instance, the Nunggubuyu word for 'day' is 'jami', so 'three days'
would be 'jami jami jami'. This system works well enough for quantities
of as many as five (a hand's worth): for more than five of anything,
they use a word for 'many'.

It turns out that the title 'Ten Canoes' is largely irrelevant and
mostly symbolic. Ten Yolngu warriors are on an expedition to steal
goose eggs from their nests (insert 'poached eggs' joke here). To
travel by water, the warriors must construct one canoe for each man.
But the title refers to the ten men themselves, or their physical
bodies: vessels (canoes) in which their souls travel the (river)
current of existence. (The press kit at Cannes said that this film's
title was inspired by a photograph ... yet that photo is never seen in
this film. My own explanation fits the circumstances just as well.)

The film's narration by David Gulpilil is perfect. He speaks his lines
in an accent containing just enough Strine to link the action to modern
Australia without evoking Mick Dundee or any Ocker stereotypes.

Several supernatural events occur during this film, but they're
conveyed in native Australian terms, not Hollywood clichés ... so,
don't expect any CGI f/x mucking up this wonderful story. The beautiful
photography is entirely at the service of native Australian
story-telling techniques. Even the subtle manipulation of colour, which
could have been just one more gimmick, adds a dimension to the
narrative.

The aboriginal actors, with their distinctive Dravidian facial
structures, photograph astonishingly. Unfortunately for the film, one
or two of them have modern dentition, spoiling the effect that we're
witnessing events occurring thousands of years before white men's
arrival in Australia. The main Gunwinggu character has a moustache just
a bit too neatly trimmed. More favourably, I was delighted by a scene
which shows (accurately) how these ancient men, who have no metal, are
able to shave their beards.

Very credibly, their preoccupations are much as we might expect:
flatulence, sex, physical urges.

Because I've done continuity work on several films, I compulsively
check every movie I view (and its soundtrack) for continuity errors or
anachronisms. As I watched and enjoyed 'Ten Canoes' and the beautiful
footage of Arnhem Land flora and fauna, I kept checking for jet
contrails, rabbit fences, bird calls by imported species, or any other
signs of modern life in this movie's depiction of dawntime Australia.
The flawless teeth of a couple of the actors were the only flaws in
this film.

I wept with joy and delight at the beauty and narrative power of this
unique and precious film. A rating of 10 out of 10 isn't good enough,
but it'll have to do. If you have any passion at all for anything
outside the usual Hollywood or Bollywood clichés, you must see 'Ten
Canoes'.
<|_=00=_|>
On a recent visit to Melbourne, I came across a poster for the movie
Ten Canoes. It described a film about Australian Aborigines and claimed
to portray them authentically. The film sets a new standard for
cross-cultural understanding. Ever since Whale Rider I have been
entranced by movies about aboriginal culture. This film extends the
genre onto a higher plane.

The narrator tells a story about men hunting for goose eggs in canoes
while one tells a story from the ancient times. Both stories are woven
exquisitely together to form a dream-like telling. The cinematography
captures the actual remote locations the tribe inhabits. The characters
are portrayed as authentically as can be, probably because they are.
(At least, it seemed that way to a white guy from Boston.) I don't know
if any are actual actors.

If you have interest in any aboriginal culture or anything Australian,
you should see this movie. If you love great story telling, you must
see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I encourage you to also read the other comments on this site for TEN
CANOES as each also will add to the clear understanding of this
astonishing Australian film by master film maker Rolf DeHeer. He is a
Dutch immigrant to Australia whose unique look at this country has now
produced a superb library of films each different, that contribute to a
fascinating movie spectrum of impressions of Australian life. TEN
CANOES is an Aboriginal parable set possibly ten thousand years ago. It
has hilarious casual dialog and familiar situations depicting tribal
family and community life that humanizes this people in a heightened
way so accessible to audiences of 2007. At this time in a new century
we are now blessed with a sequence of Australian aboriginal themed
films I encourage you to find and view in their production order: JEDDA
directed by Charles Chauvel in 1956, WALKABOUT d: Nicolas Roeg in 1970,
STORM BOY in 1976, THE LAST WAVE d: Peter Weir in 1977, RABBIT PROOF
FENCE d; Phil Noyce in 2003, THE TRACKER d Roldf De Heer, and now TEN
CANOES. Incredibly and as a bonus celebrated Aboriginal actor David
Gulpilil features in all of them except Jedda... and as a bonus in
theme, his son Jamie is the lead actor in TEN CANOES with David
narrating. TEN CANOES will take you to a reality and a community unlike
anything ever depicted in any film ever. As alike those above, it is
presented and magnificently filmed in cinemascope differently to any
Australian (or 'primitive') feature I have ever had the fascinating
engrossing pleasure of seeing. Just to study the timeless faces alone
is a peep into history and often delivered with very funny and
genuinely suspenseful and heartwarming results. De Heer is now a film
maker par excellence now finally getting major recognition in this
country with a broad range of different and arresting films unlike any
other film maker I can name. just for starters, check out the comments
for BAD BOY BUBBY, ALEXANDRA'S PROJECT, THE QUIET ROOM, alone for a jaw
dropping range of themes. Even if you see TEN CANOES and find the
journey into the Australian stone age initially difficult, you will be
astonished at the visuals presented and in awe of the fact this was
ever captured on film with such humor and accessible humanities.
<|_=00=_|>
Ten canoes is a remarkable film which I am sure will take its place
amongst the classics in history of movie-making. As usual he allows the
subject(s) to speak for itself and the result is marvellous. The
audience I saw it with did not seem to want leave at the and no one
moved or made a sound until the end of the credits. i don't know how to
interpret this reaction. In my own case I had a sense of hoping for
more which may have been due to the nature of th final 5 minutes during
which there was a sort of false ending with some self effacing humour.
The participants were excellent and their 'naturalistic acting was
outstanding. The music and editing contributed to the elegiacs quality
of the movie. Rolf de Heer never disappoints!
<|_=00=_|>
This story begins with an aerial flyover of Arnhem Land in northern
Austalia. A narrator comes on saying that he is going to tell a story,
his story. His story starts with the recounting of a tale about his
ancestors of a few generations back who are making canoes to traverse a
crocodile-filled swamp in search of goose eggs. Within that tale a wise
older man is telling another, somewhat parallel, tale to his younger
brother dating back many generations to "the ancients." In a clever
plotting device the ancestor's tale is shown in black and white while
the ancient's tale is shown in color. This technique has the dual
effect of allowing director Rolf de Heer to duplicate scenes from black
and white photographs taken in the area by an anthropologist in the
1930s (photographs that motivated the making of this film), as well as
helping the viewer keep the stories straight.

The cast consists of a few dozen modern day aboriginals playing the
parts in the two stories. They try to capture the reality of the times
portrayed, and you can believe that this was the way it could have been
thousands of years ago for a tribe of early humans. The earlier
Astralians have their own customs and language and the cast speaks in
their native language, with English subtitles. I kept thinking of how
the basic emotions driving the stories are still with us--fear,
jealousy, lust, love, trust, distrust, pride, humor, courage, loyalty,
honor. The culture presented is indeed not mine, but it is perfectly
understandable. Sorcerers keep the tribe stirred up and mystified with
special knowledge of "magic," just as modern religions do (with equal
effectiveness). There are laws that must be obeyed, even if unwritten.
The young men relish showing prowess in hunting and war making. A
creator is deemed the prime mover. Marital relationships are not always
harmonious, especially if polygamous. And so on. 

It appears that no matter how it manifests itself a culture will wrap
itself around basic human emotions and desires. It would not be a
stretch to recast these stories in a modern setting.

The photography of the landscape is beautiful and sensuous; it
contributes greatly to the stories by showing what an intimate
relationship early peoples had with the land and its fauna.

This movie helps us better appreciate where we came from and what we
are.
