
I was really surprised by how entertained I was by this. There were
many negative reviews of this film and after watching the film I
realised how many critics are actually quite lazy. They derided the
plot as convoluted but actually I found it complex but understandable.
To dismiss it as a heroes knock-off is also unfair. It's a sci-fi film
but that doesn't mean all sci-fi films are the same. The film makes
good use of its Hong Kong location more so than any recent film I've
seen and the characters were memorable. The special effects were there
for the story and not the other way around. I usually read film reviews
but am glad, in this instance, I ignored them.
<|_=00=_|>
PUSH is one of those movies which really got me excited after the first
viewing of the trailer, and now that I've finally watched it, I'm glad
that I did.

The storyline was rather good and believable, didn't leave me confused
or bored at the end. Although more time could have been spent
explaining certain things in detail instead of the constant scenes of
standing around and pondering the next move.

The visual effects in this film are pretty good. And the acting isn't
too bad either. Applause for Dakota Fanning and Chris Evans. Also, I
really enjoyed the way the movie was shot, there was somehow this sense
of realism to the whole thing.

However, I didn't enjoy Camilla Belle's acting. Although I did enjoy
her performance in The Quiet, she just seemed really off in this movie.
Either she wasn't given enough screen time, or she was outshone by
Dakota.

By the way, those who are comparing this show to HEROES are
preposterous. Telekineseis and all of these special abilities have been
around long before then! Though I am a huge fan of HEROES, I think it's
really nothing in comparison to PUSH.

By the way, this show had me glued to the sit even when I really had to
use the toilet. In other words, I hope there's a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't see why this movie has been turned down by so many people or
why such a bad word has been spread about it.

Push is one of the better modern superhuman-themed movies you will
find. It won't be your top five of the year and you won't watch it a
million times, but you should really like it. It won't blow you away,
but it won't disappoint you.

I give my opinion on this movie not as a fully fledged movie expert,
fully up-to- date, premier-going, Oscar-loving critic - but as an
artistically natured, deep- rooted film lover. And I say this movie is
worth watching. It has a bit of everything that is to be desired in a
good movie. While a lot could've been different, and you could've
improved it in many ways, it's still fine just as it is.

The story in this movie is excellent. How it is portrayed and told is
great. The actors all fulfill their role, some with splendor. And no
matter what anyone might have told you; this movie is greatly
artistical.

I believe Push is quite unique in many ways, foremost for its unusual
lack of hierarchy of the powers you see in the film. You're used to see
a lot of people possessing powers, but only one of them - Magneto for
instance - being the one standing above all else. But in Push no one is
the obvious stronger one.

Push uses a lot of twists, and not in the first-Saw-movie way which
blows you out of your seat, but it still manages to keep the movie
interesting, even tough the twists are all quite predictable.

Push is also, as I said, greatly artistical. It has a lot of fantastic
colors and utilizes lighting very well, it's set in very beautiful
environments, and there are a lot of other great cinematic techniques
being used. I especially like the choice of soundtrack in this movie.
It reminds me a lot of the way they choose to use music in The Dark
Knight. Instead of some really catchy, noticeable soundtrack there's
been a very diligent work done with a subtle yet powerful soundtrack
that emerges only when necessary and gives an indescribable force to
the movie.

All in all, Push is a quite non-mainstream, entertaining, good movie
worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
While there have been superhero genre films, there is something about
the way that Push takes you through the back alleys, fish markets and
pint-sized hotel rooms of Hong Kong that sets it apart and makes it
palpably exciting. It is exotic, but this is no fantasy world, it is a
dirty reality that the characters inhabit.

Fitting perfectly with this is the lack of a clear hierarchy of super
powers. In most superhero films, there are clear levels of powers, and
you know exactly which characters should be stronger than others, but
Push has a perfectly muddied picture  we're on the edge of our seats,
because we don't know who should win. It feels oddly realistic.

Chris Evans rises to the occasion as usual as the semi-powerful
protagonist, Nick, mixing in his trademark cocky funny attitude with a
subtle melancholy outlook. Dakota Fanning is definitely growing up, and
she is highly likable as the adolescent future teller. Camilla Belle is
gorgeous, and Djimon Hounsou is as intimidating as ever as the primary
villain.

It's weird to see people compare this to Jumper, because while Jumper
was filled with cheap tricks, Push has you talking about the movie when
you leave theaters, and thinking about its concept long after. I really
like the universe it created, so I really hope we'll get to see it
again with a sequel!
<|_=00=_|>
"Push" is the best movie from a recent new genre of science fiction
movies. This new genre of movies, which includes "Jumper" and "Wanted",
generally involves characters with psychic or psionic abilities, a
conspiratorial shadow group, and an unlikely anti-hero, set against a
banal or dystopian realism. "Push" blows these other two admittedly
weak offerings out of the cinematic water.

Both the visuals and the action in "Push" are quite good. "Push" is set
in Hong-Kong. The city has enough exotic flavor to be interesting and
enough grit to provide a realistic backdrop for the more fanciful
elements of the film. The filmmakers captured the feeling of a William
Gibson novel without having to set the film at night in the rain for
the entire movie.

The action sequences are excellent. "Push" does not suffer from the
hyper-kinetic, shake-the-camera-until-the-viewer-is-confused action
sequences of "Bourne Ultimatum" or "Quantum of Solace". In "Push", you
know who is punching whom and you can tell who is winning.

Visual effects? Here is what sold me on this film and on this
filmmaker's vision: When a "mover" (a person with telekinetic powers)
uses his ability to push something away or to enhance the power of a
punch (yes, I said TK-enhanced fight sequences...don't drool on your
keyboard) the visual effects people were smart enough to consider the
effect on the nearby air. The air gets...crimped, and as a result the
light refracts in a split second rainbow pattern at the moment of
impact. That level of forethought and detail is what "Jumper" and
"Wanted" lacked.

Another element that this movie possesses that "Jumper" and "Wanted"
doesn't is a focus on the characters. Any movie or show about psychic
powers or "superpowers" lives or dies on the relationships between the
characters. The male lead and Dakota Fanning are excellent together and
quickly establish a rapport that gives the film more depth. Honorable
mention goes to the enemy "watcher"--she is genuinely threatening,
lollipop notwithstanding. I also loved the tip of the hat to the anime
genre exhibited in Cassie's (Fanning) wardrobe.

This movie is worth every bit of the matinée price I paid. And I will
probably watch it again.

A few points: One, this is not a superhero movie. While people who like
"Heroes" and some of the Marvel films might enjoy this movie, one
should not go in expecting that kind of experience.

Two, I do wish that the producers had about 15 million extra dollars.
The extra money would have allowed them to show more of the story and
neatly tie a couple of loose ends, rather than telling the audience. I
sincerely hope this film does well enough to garner a more expansively
budgeted sequel.

Three, this movie has some minor plot issues, especially a small deux
ex machina cum Toyota, that might bother some. But, if you choose to
buy into the experience, "Push" will take you on a fantastic ride.

-Blindcurve
<|_=00=_|>
Push offers a very interesting premise with its wide variety of
psychics and the agency trying to keep it all under control and use
them. Hong Kong offers an exotic background for the action to take
place.

The movie makes an interesting attempt at being half action thriller,
reminiscent of a Bourne movie, and half super-hero blockbuster, in the
tradition of the X-Men. But director Paul McGuigan is never able to
make us fully feel for the characters and their ordeal and the action
sequences, while pleasant to watch, never instill emotional response.
We're not scared for anyone, our blood does not pump during chases
either. 

The two stars of Push are an unlikely duo of actor which surprised me
somewhat. Chris Evans has often been derided as being just another
bland pretty face. Here, he is paired with young Dakota Fanning, who
has been revered by many as a child prodigy actress. What's interesting
to me is that, had I not seen previous films from these two, I wouldn't
notice much difference in quality between the two. They both give a
suitable performance. Neither Oscar-worthy nor garbage.

Unfortunately, the support cast is very weak. Camilla Belle is pretty
but bland as usual. Cliff Curtis and Djimon Hounsou are both amazing
actors but here they have very little to work with. I blame McGuigan
and writer David Bourla for not providing them with opportunities to
shine. 

What makes this movie a 5 rather than a 6 is its confusing and botched
conclusion. As if somehow the production ran out of time and needed to
wrap things up on the spot. Perhaps hoping for a sequel? Push has an
intriguing premise and more than enough basic material to be stretched
into a trilogy or even a short TV series but as is the rule of thumb
with those sort of things, it is doubtful things will get better should
sequels be produced. 

I wish the premise had been used to tell a better story, in a better
way.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer for "Push" did not give me a desire to see it in the
theater... It was actually a last minute choice to go see it in hopes
to see a good action movie. I was certainly surprised -- I have heard
some bad reviews of this film, but I must say the choice to go see it
was WORTH my time. The story was excellent and pieced together very
well. The way it was written was something I rarely see in movies
anymore. Most directors rely on special effects and explosions anymore,
but "Push" used it's action/CG as a companion to the plot. The plot's
structure was on the line of "The Jacket" or "Burn After Reading" where
details, no matter how subtle, seem to twist and mesh into a
well-thought-out idea. The little visions of the future and appearance
of random characters are not meant to be simply passed off. You are
allowed to think in this one... What a nice change! Switches between
the gritty and crisp, colorful filming worked well in bringing a
certain mood to the appropriate scenes (which also looks brilliant on
BluRay). The actions scenes were great as well... With the company of
the Pushers' powers and the manipulation of people and objects around
them, those scenes did not usually go in the direction I anticipated.

This is not fair to call "Push" a "super hero" movie. It is not really
a super hero movie, nor is it a traditional action movie; I believe
this was the intention. The bolder science fiction basis kept the plot
focused and within the realm of "its own" feel and stayed away from the
"everything everyone else is doing" feel. Actions scenes were powerful
yet short; I was left wanting more, so when the next series of
craziness began I was more involved and appreciated it more. 

Sure there were some editing flaws, but even major blockbusters going
back to "Jurassic Park" have issues. Even still, I have found that some
of these reported "flaws" in "Push" are incorrect after viewing it for
a second time on BluRay. 

As a final note, the entire cast held their roles wonderfully and left
a lasting impression of each of their characters. I guarantee that if
the original cast chose to return, I would be in line for a "Push"
sequel on opening night.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer of Push,I thought it was going to be one of
those cheap movies made at low cost in order to getting a release
during the low seasons of the cinematographic industry from the
year.The fact that this movie went completely unnoticed when it was
shown in cinemas from the United States confirmed my very low
expectations with this movie.However,I won some enthusiasm for this
movie when I knew its director was Paul McGuigan,whose previous movie,
Lucky Number Slevin,was an entertaining rehash of the formula which was
popularized by Lock,Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and its many
imitators.When I finally saw Push,I took a very nice surprise with
it.It's not a great film,but I found it to be a solid and very
entertaining thriller with an ingenious screenplay and interesting
characters.The story from this movie is developed on Hong Kong and it
was an excellent decision to do that,because the exotic taste from that
city makes the movie richer,not to mention the obvious possibilities of
comparisons with the popular TV series Heroes go down.McGuigan's
direction is perfect.He puts to this movie a good level of energy and
dynamism,but he recognizes the moments in which the narrative requires
a more subtle and controlled work.The direction is,by my point of
view,the best element from this movie.I also appreciated the sober use
of the special effects,because they only appear as authentic
auxiliaries to the story.The cast is very competent.Chris Evans shows
energy and conviction on his role; Dakota Fanning confirms she has left
behind her past as a mini-adult,for becoming into an excellent juvenile
actress; the great Djimon Hounsou brings a lot of style and energy to
his character; and Ming Na is also pretty good on her role.The
important fails from this movie appear on the ending.On that moment,the
movie shows absurd exaggeration for finally concluding on an ambiguous
and not too satisfactory note.But,in spite of that,I had a very good
time watching this movie.I took a very nice surprise with Push and I
recommend it because,although it is not a great movie at all,I found it
very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
This little bit of cinematic junk food is moderately entertaining if
you're not looking to exercise any brain cells. It's about a bunch of
people -- some good, some bad -- with special powers in pursuit of a
suitcase that contains something that everybody wants. I could go into
what the suitcase actually contains, and why it's important, and why
everyone wants it, but I don't have the energy, and it doesn't matter
much anyway, because the film is more interested in its style than it
is in its plot, which isn't in this case a criticism.

The film reminded me of a jacked up version of one of those 1940s crime
thrillers, where everyone speaks in a hard-boiled patter and what
happens isn't nearly as important as how it all looks happening. So
what if this film's plot seems needlessly complicated, and so what if
there are way too many narrative threads that don't ever get completely
developed, and so what if the whole thing is edited to within an inch
of its life? It's still pretty fun if you're in the mood for it.

Chris Evans and Dakota Fanning are the nominal stars, and Djimon
Hounsou makes an appearance, proving yet again that what he really
needs more than anything is a better dialect coach.

The crazy color palettes and art direction in this film reminded me as
I was watching it of "Lucky Number Slevin," another bit of entertaining
B pulp. How funny then that I look at this film's director's (Paul
McGuigan) resume only to find that it includes....you guessed
it....."Lucky Number Slevin." If nothing else, his films certainly have
a visual style in common.

Grade: B
<|_=00=_|>
The old saying goes, "all style, no substance" but the same cannot be
said for Push. If anything, this superheroesque sci-fi actionier is
more like "all substance, no sense". I have found one of the carnal
sins of movie making is trying to smarten up a movie that doesn't need
to be bumped up a peg. In place of break-neck action, director Paul
McGuigan (who helmed the 2006 cult hit Lucky Number Slevin) has opted
to cram more information and back-story down our gullets then an
unlucky turkey on thanksgiving, yet without ever really accomplishing
anything but convolution. 

To be fair, there is still a good lot to recommend about this film.
Nobody could accuse Push of being unoriginal and to McGuigan's credit
the characters are more fully realized then those in most films of a
similar ilk (McGuigan himself said he was more concerned with the
character element then the action). Yet from the confusing opening to
the splurge of character introduction in the opening act, many will
find themselves drifting off and losing interest. Thankfully, by the
final act the mood has settled, the heroes and villains drift in and
out enough to become familiar and the supernatural element becomes
significantly less convoluted. (Although some post-film research helped
further yet) Cementing the movie in the realm of watchability is a
spectacular final battle, shot almost entirely with stunt-work and the
gritty effect is quite enticing. 

The world is not as it may seem. Psychics are very real and they are
both a blessing and a curse to a shadowy and sinister organization
known only The Division (oooh, scary). Heavily monitored, some of those
with special gifts work for The Division, others are on the run, some
in hiding, but some become part of secret experiments to harness their
unique gifts as weapons. Among these unique individuals are varying
varieties of skills; there are Bleeders who can emit high frequency
screeches that cause death, Movers who can move objects with their
mind, Pushers who can insert thoughts and memories into others and the
list goes on to include Shadow's, Shifter's, Sniffer's, Stitcher's,
Watcher's and Wiper's. (You can see where confusion could set in) The
story begins with a young Mover named Nick Grant (Chris Evans) who is
attempting to avoid the Division and its shady leader Carver (Djimon
Hounsou) who wants to keep tabs on him. He crosses paths with a young
but gifted Watcher named Cassie (Dakota Fanning) who unfortunately has
the nasty propensity to predict their deaths. Leading them to a high
value subject of The Division's (Kira, coincidently an old flame of
Nick's) Cassie, Nick and Kira try to prevent the powerful agency from
getting hold of dangerous and powerful drug. I won't go any further
into the plot then that, because otherwise I'm fairly certain you would
never read my reviews again. 

Of the countless films in recent years, Push reminds me the most of
Jumper in more ways then one. They both feature a small population of
gifted individuals being hunted by a powerful and secretive
organization, and with both securing the skills of a ruthless African
American agent. (In Jumper's case it was Samuel L. Jackson) More
similar yet is the clear indication that the films are intended to be
the first in a series of many (I will say that Push does an infinitely
better job of wrapping up its chapter then the shamelessly gaping
ending of Jumper) and with both I feel that any subsequent instalments
will be a large improvement over the set-up and confusion of the
original. So when push comes to shove, here is hoping that studios feel
this inventive but uneven chase adventure was enough of a success for a
sequel. 

6.5 / 10.0

Read all my reviews at: http://www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
