
But at least Transporter 2 was fun. Robert Patrick is the only actor
worth watching in this film, and even he had some wacky forced lines
that made no sense. If you've seen the trailer you've seen it all. I'm
so serious! I've seen every B movie out there and this is a C for sure!
Also being a Marine, I was at first blown away by how pathetic the
"Marine" background footage was that they gave Cena. But about 1/3 of
the way through this poor excuse for an action film, I was very happy
that they had him wear a camouflage Army cover (hat for you
non-military types) instead of a cornered Marine issue cover when he
saluted that officer because neither he nor his character deserved to
wear a Marine uniform. By the way, a high ranking officer would never
salute a Sgt. first. It's always the other way around! Apparently there
were no real Marine advisers on this movie set. Even if they had all
the Marine details in order, the action was extremely stupid and I was
left severely disappointed. Neither Cena nor Cena's character in this
movie deserve to be called The Marine. One last thing. I've seen some
people say the action is so realistic in this film. That is the
furthest thing from the truth. I saw at least 300 bullets (I'm not
exaggerating either) unloaded into the car Cena was driving during a
chase and not a single flat tire as a result. Need I say more!?!
<|_=00=_|>
Now, don't get the wrong idea. I am a wrestling fan. However, this is a
movie review. I review a movie on how I think of this. I'll tell you
why The Marine is not worth seeing.

First off, the movie has a weak plot. Not exactly original. Kidnapped
wife, not the best. We got a few talented people here. Kelly Carlson
and Robert Patrick. However they are supports. Okay, can they save
this? No. 

I have to say without any anti-Cena and all honesty that John Cena is
one of the worst actors I have ever seen. He is more wooden than a log
cabin. His tough guy facials are hilarious. How did he get this role?
And how is it that an experienced actor Robert Patrick have to play
second fiddle? To Cena no less? Ouch. Cena's acting made the Marine
hard to watch.

Also, When a movie sucks, the only resort to try and win over people is
to....yep, explosions. Forget the plot, forget the story, forget the
bad acting, as long as we have explosions, the movie is saved! Right?
Right???? 

The Last Word: Utter garbage. How Cena nabbed the starring role here is
going to be one of the biggest mysteries of the world. His acting is
awful. The movie's script is lame, too many explosions, and did I
mention Cena? I hate to say this, but Cena, don't quit your day job.
Acting isn't your style.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely the worst piece of crap my brother and I have seen. The
movie looked to be an interesting action movie early on, but became
totally unbelievable and stupid as the movie progressed. It simply
insults the intelligence of the viewer! People in the audience were
laughing at how dumb, and I mean dumb, this movie was. The acting was
horrible. The plot, what plot? The "marine" was indestructible. The bad
guys fought among themselves and acted like a bunch of morons. After
intense fighting scenes, the characters didn't have scratches or torn
clothing. Everything was predictable. I honestly can not recall seeing
a movie as bad as this one. The producer of this movie should be
ashamed! Absolutely do not recommend wasting even a dollar at a dollar
theater for this one!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge John Cena fan, so I'm not writing this just to pick on him.
But "The Marine" is the worst film I've ever seen, and I've made a
habit of seeing bad films.

*May contain SPOILERS* The short version: See John shoot. Shoot, shoot,
shoot. See John run. BOOM! Run, John, run. See John drive. See John
swim. Swim, swim, Boom! Run, swim, hit, BOOM, hit, hit, kiss - The end.

The long version: I'll skip the cheesy opening credits and the bizarre
soundtrack (which at more than one point seems to be channeling Celine
Dion). The movie was supposedly directed by one John Bonito; I wouldn't
say that the movie was directed so much as it wandered along aimlessly,
occasionally bumping into scenery. Even the scenery refused to "act"
(Queensland, Australia is NOT South Carolina, Mr. Bonito). Mr. Cena
ambles along through the famous jungles of "South Carolina,"
occasionally stopping to glance around, never conveying the slightest
hint that he might actually be thinking something. Five minutes into
the movie, I apologized to the friend I dragged along with me to see
it. Ten minutes into it, I officially began imagining a completely
different movie. By the end, I no longer cared who lived. I wouldn't
have minded if the characters had simply begun shooting themselves,
just so that we'd all be put out of our misery.

I wanted this to be a fun movie - I like a fun, cheesy action film as
much as the next person - but this movie didn't even try. I was so
disappointed ... Mr. Cena, you owe me $9.50!
<|_=00=_|>
As a real fan of action movies I was looking forward to a great action
movie from seeing the previews however I found it disappointing. First,
the whole story line with the Marine Corps is very unrealistic (don't
want to spoil anything here), there a lot of big explosions, but acting
is just very wooden. While I don't look for a heavy complicated plot in
an action film, it is always helpful to have something to hold it
together. The story line is very linear and predictable. In the theater
I was in, the audience actually started laughing out loud at the
predictability and clich√© lines. So go for the explosions and the star
is good looking (although we only see his body in one scene
unfortunately) but don't expect too much from a movie produced by the
WWF.
<|_=00=_|>
Plot line is weak? Yes. The acting is bad? Well... you can't expect
much acting from such a weak plot line anyway. But what I liked about
this movie is that it is NOT an action movie, it is a comic action
movie. Just sit back and enjoy some great explosions, fighting scenes
and snappy comic remarks. I couldn't stop laughing through the whole
movie. At least it looks like they didn't try to make a "serious"
action movie. They tried to make a movie for those who enjoy WWE, I
guess. And that is why I'm giving it an 8/10, since I think the movie
fulfills it's purpose.

It has some of the greatest explosions I've ever seen in a movie,
seriously, kudos to the SFX team. The comic remarks vary from silly
things like the "I hate rock candy" to references to other movies (when
you see the movie you'll understand). That is why I say this isn't a
"serious" movie.

To watch this movie I suggest a few friends, some beers and turn off
all brain activity. I did that and had a good time watching it. And I
still use quotes from the movie to grab a quick laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
The Marine is just a silly film by WWE simply to entertain it's fan
base and further it's empire.For one to judge The Marine you need to
take into account that this film was intended to entertain action fans
with a no brainer,cheesy,action,popcorn flick and as a popcorn flick
The Marine succeeds.John Cena is actually a good actor and he played
his invincible,heroic,one man strike force character to perfection as
did Robert Patrick with his absolutely hilarious character.The Marine
has the most unbelievable stunts and at some times they are almost
unbearably bad.The fight sequences are great,very intense,very
hardcore, but the explosions and special effects are brutally
unrealistic and cheesy.The film also has some of the most
annoying,campy,corny, dialog ever captured on film.It's so bad you feel
like you're re-watching 1997's Batman and Robin.As a follower of pro
wrestling I'm aware that John Cena currently has a love/hate
relationship with WWE fans.Females and Adolescents love Cena while
Males hate him.My guess is that The Marine was made in order to change
male fans opinions by making an action film that generally appeals to
them.However judging by the overall IMDb rating WWE failed to do so.I
wouldn't necessarily say THe Marine is a bad film but it is
incomparable and can't compete with mainstream action films like The
Transporter,Crank,or District B13 however if you enjoy direct to DVD
action flicks that have a thin storyline but some great action scenes
like Special Forces or Belly Of The Beast than The Marine is more
suited to you.It's definitely not the worst film ever made and I think
for the most part it's because it doesn't take itself seriously and
admits it's a popcorn flick.Overall The Marine is just silly action
much like wrestling and much like wrestling the characters are whacky
and at times unbelievable.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie on TV and it left me in a state of confusion. I simply
could not understand why the people making this movie, made so many
misstakes. And what was up with those opening scenes? I got Rambo
flashbacks during that. I consider myself to be within the target
audience, boys who like action movies with guns, babes, car chases,
fights and so on. The problem with this movie IMO is that it
underestimates its audience. Just because we like action movies, does
not mean we like movies with just action scenes. Nor does it mean that
you do not have to make any sense.

10 years ago i would have thought that this movie was tha bombe. I
would have thought that it was cool. However this is not 1999, it's
2009 (yes, i know the movie is from 2006). After all the things that
have happened in the last couple of years, you simply can not show such
unbelievable stuff as getting shot at a 120 times from 3-10 meters away
during a car chase and not get hit once (outside the Matrix of course).

This movie made me doubt myself. Have i learned so much about combat
tactics, guns and ammo, warfare, law enforcement, crime and human
frailty (from watching Discovery Channel and National Geographic) that
i am simply incapable of enjoying a simple action movie? After thinking
a lot about that i concluded that the answer is yes. Yes, i know to
much to enjoy a simple action movie. And The Marine is about as simple
as it gets. A bit more work on the script to make it more logical and
coherent and this movie would have scored at least 1 more point
(probably 2). I know the marines are tough guys, but i also know
marines are not dumb. Stubborn yes, but not dumb. The marine in The
Marine is tough and dumb.

The Marine is fun to watch, but only when you have nothing else to do.
If you need to kill some time, then The Marine will kill it. And you
will watch it all the way to the end because of Kelly Carlson. If you
are a man you want her to be your lover or hostage. If you are a strait
woman or gay man, Kelly Carlson's hair will make you go "oh wow, look
at that, that is hot". But remember, if you want to enjoy it for more
than Kelly Carlson, dumb yourself down a bit.

I gave this movie 5 stars. 1 for Kelly Carlson and her hair, 1 for
Robert Patrick and his lines, 1 for the guns, fights and explosions, 1
for the cat-fight and 1 for giving me hope that one day someone will
give me a multimillion dollar budget to make my own action movie.
<|_=00=_|>
About 2 decades ago, people witnessed the age of when the action genre
in films was at its finest. The world was given some of the greatest
action entertainments ever (Terminator's 1 and 2, Die Hard, Predator,
Robocop etc). And all of that was shamefully thrown away for the cheap
rip-off's just so Hollywood can make a profit. And here we get WWE
starting to finance and distribute films in hopes of expanding their
fanbase and their publicity. And they start by throwing their superstar
John Cena in his horrendous, over-the-top debut.

"The Marine" follows John Triton (Cena) who has been recently
discharged for disobeying direct orders and he now has a lousy security
job (but at the end, the problem of having a job he hates isn't even
resolved, but what do we care?). Later on, a group of diamond thieves
who are trying to evade the authorities after their latest heist kidnap
Triton's wife. Triton decides to do the usual in a dumb action flick;
he decides to go after them and take the law into his own hands. But
the plot itself is too weak for us to care about what's going on. I
mean the problem basically occurred by chance and coincidence when
Triton and his wife just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong
time at the gas station. And all the plot elements don't mesh together
very well.

And of course its action because the WWE wrestlers just want to prove
their masculinity. And overall, the action sucks. There's explosions
and gunfire, lots and lots of explosions and gunfire. But the special
effects team must've been on crack because the blasts look like
splashes of Sunny Delight, and the gunfire looks like it was made from
a home computer with just that stupid orange X and the annoying
sparkles that we see.

And the acting performance by Cena is atrocious and more wooden than a
redwood forest. Robert Patrick as Rome is sub-par since he wasn't as
threatening as he used to be in Terminator 2 and even in Die Hard 2
which he appeared in only 2 scenes. He's pretty much just spewing out
dumb one-liners and acting goofy. All that, rather than the
intimidating silence he's known for.

And the rest is just a bunch of badly timed jokes, dialogue and
scenarios. Especially the part when Morgan is telling about his
experiences with his camp counselor and Rome ordering him to find the
generator. That part was WAY outta place, badly acted and awkward and
it felt like it was never gonna end. And towards the end when Triton
surely kills Rome in the blast, then after reviving his wife, Rome
suddenly rises again with severe burns and then Triton kills him for
good, VERY VERY B movie, if you ask me. And the "The Marine" is chock
full of moments like those.

I didn't give this the lowest score because some of the fist fights
here were alright and I liked some of the pop-culture references such
as the ones to Terminator and Scarface here.

But don't waste your time, this is for John Cena die-hards only......
<|_=00=_|>
WWE champion John Cena makes his acting debut in WWE Films' "The
Marine". No matter what all the other critics say, this film is not all
that bad! I grew up during the 80's watching and loving such action
flicks as Commando, Cobra, Tango & Cash, Action Jackson, and The Marine
is no worse than any of those cheesy 80's films we all know and love. I
believe that is the appeal of this film to me! 

John Cena plays a marine by the name of John Triton. After disobeying a
direct command during active duty in the Middle East, he is discharged
and returns home to his wife in South Carolina. Bored with his new
found freedom from the service, little does he know that some unwanted
action is waiting for him.

Like I mentioned before, this is a fun action flick in the vein of the
old 80's action movies. A very predictable plot, but a lot of fun! Who
says that every film has to be like The Lord Of The Rings, or The
Godfather to be enjoyed by people on a boring Sunday afternoon. The
Marine does what it was meant to, it entertains the audience with
unrealistic action and explosions.

John Cena can not act outside of the squared circle. In my humble
opinion, he is not even a great wrestler, so I expected his wooden
acting skills. Still, in this type of movie, who cares? Van Damme can't
act either, but his early films were fun like this.

Overall, I give this film a 5/10. Great for a boring rainy afternoon,
and a definite must for all 80's action fans.
