
We saw an advanced screening on Sept 22. I thought it was going to be
another one of those cheesy, campy, not really believable, warm fuzzy,
type of underdog/rags to riches movies. I was actually surprised. It
had some great plot twists, it had a real story line. And while yes,
there is some language sprinkled throughout, it did make a good family
movie for older kids, 10+ (my opinion). The ending wasn't quite what I
was expecting, but looking back I think I liked it better for that. Who
wants an ending they can see coming the entire movie?

It had some great comedy moments. The relationships between the actors
felt genuine and not overdone or forced. 

The robot animatronics was good. The robots themselves were fun and
imaginative and definitely made me wish we really had this sport. I
would so be there!
<|_=00=_|>
Any movie that gets the audience involved in a positive way and leaving
cheering is an excellent movie. It is like Rocky on adrenaline and with
a whole lot better acting. Hugh Jackman, Evangeline Lilly and Dakota
Goyo all have great performances. Dakota who plays the son really makes
the movie, but all the actors performances are great. The guy who
thought it boring... well, you lack passion and your soul must be dead.
Real Steel is the absolutely hands down best movie I have seen in a
long time. You will cheer, cry, laugh and be thoroughly entertained. I
had to sit and watched the credits at the end just to catch my breath.
Great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Real Steel" is the cheesiest movie I've seen in quite some time. After
a promising start, flick starts getting over confident in telling its
story. A Story we've already seen before in "Rocky" and its many
clones.

Set in a future where the only difference seems to be fighting robots.
Hugh Jackman plays an out off work boxer and grade A a**hole, who is
hopeless at getting new robots fighting. Jackmans life is supposedly
turned around when the son he abandoned as a baby turns up and helps in
finding an old robot, who ends up being great in the ring.

As I wrote above, the film starts off well. Jackmans playing a
character that only cares about money and winning until the kid turns
up. Even the kids doing well until he starts teaching the robot how too
dance (and yes he even teaches him "the robot," sigh!) and like most
over confident child actors, becomes the irritating c*cky kid in the
movie.

I don't think I'm spoiling anything by saying that the old robot wins
and Jackman ends up caring about more than just himself by the end off
the flick, but the way they go about this is seriously corny, and the
way in which Jackman started out makes me not want too root for him so
much by the end.

Overall the films story maybe isn't as predictable as you'd think, and
is saved from a worst rating by this, and its light sprinkiling off
funny moments and cool robot designs. Round one though is better than
round two. Which seems determined to out-do "Rocky" and all its many
imitators, in an attempt to win the award for corniest movie ever.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much when I saw this movie - and I'm not really a
fan of movies where kid's are the lead - but, I was pleasantly
surprised with this one.

Even though this was a "formula / underdog" type of movie, it had me
cheering for Atom, Hugh Jackman was great and so were the cast of
characters.

The CGI was excellent, I really connected to the characters, and it was
just a fun, guilty-pleasure (c'mon, boxing robots - who DOESN'T want
that !) type of movie.

Not quite "A Space Odyssey:2000" but then again, it's not supposed to
be.

FUN. ENTERTAINING. GREAT ACTION.

Recommended !
<|_=00=_|>
I only found out this movie was a Spielberg production when i saw it on
screen. I immediately knew i'd be faced with a lot of cheap kodak
moments and teary-eyed kids wrapped in a formula of family-fun Steven
has been repeating since ET.

I wasn't wrong. But i had no idea how bad it was going to be. At least
Goonies 2, i mean... Super 8, managed to actually be entertaining. This
movie has no surprises, it's just predictable turn, after predictable
turn.

The acting is terrible across the board, but i can't blame the actors
for not putting an effort into such a depressing tale. Goyo is a
promising talent, unfortunately the lines he was given are so
out-of-character and cheesy for a kid his age, no amount of talent
could be convincing. He likes Robot boxing and he's so into video games
he's even fluent with Japanese, but he's no nerd, he's all grown-up and
can haggle like a moroccan couscous salesman on a couscous black
Friday, and to top it all off he looks like the coolest kid ever, even
though his mom has just died days ago. And, like that's not horribly
incongruent enough, he spends half of the movie showing off his dancing
skills like a Bieber wannabe. That's one seriously schyzophrenic kid!

But the bad acting and atrocious storytelling doesn't end there. Some
of the people in Real Steel are more cartoonish than the robots: Ricky,
Tak Mashido, Farra, look like villains out of a Disney Channel Show.
Most of the footage of James Rebhorn and Hope Davis should've stayed on
the cutting room floor. They are lost on screen, clearly with no
chemistry as a couple and not enough lines on the script to work with.
Every time they're interacting on screen you can actually crack a laugh
at how they flay their arms at each other clueless, like two
crash-test-dummies in slow motion. But the way they keep awkwardly
eyeballing Hugh Jackman during every lousy dialog like they're asking
to be put out of their misery just makes you terribly sad again.

The final scene with everyone crying in rapture at Hugh Jackman
performing video-fitness, had me ripping hair out of my head! I'm in
awe of all the positive reviews this movie is getting. Either this
movie premiered on IMDb's opposite day, or i had no idea this site had
such a huge userbase of 9 year olds.
<|_=00=_|>
What a little gem Real Steel could have been. Well before its release,
and before any intricate plot details became known, this sounded like
an intelligent film in which robots are forced to engage in brutal
fights for the entertainment of their human masters. Where the story
would've gone from there is left to the imagination, but it appeared to
have all the makings of critically acclaimed, self-conscious science
fiction. The final product differed heavily from initial expectations,
however, and we are left with a hollow, albeit bearable alternative
prompting those such as myself to ask: What could have been?

In the very near future (2020, according to director Shawn Levy) the
human art of man-to-man combat has become obsolete. One-time fighters
have been replaced by robots that do the dirty work while their human
controllers reap the rewards. Charlie Kenton (Hugh Jackman) is one such
promoter, recently down on his luck and who lives not for the bright
lights, but to make just enough money to survive. At this most
inopportune time, he is forced to take care of his estranged son
(Dakota Goyo), whose burgeoning friendship with an outdated sparring
'bot named Atom convinces Charlie to give the big time one last shot.

For a movie that has the skeleton to accommodate exploring the concept
of human qualities in machines, a la Blade Runner or Artificial
Intelligence, as well as (warning: pretentiousness ahead) the theme of
'ethics and morals of humanity', it actually does everything it can to
avoid those topics entirely. My hopes for such a film were all but
dashed with the casting of a child- a sure sign that the story would be
strictly focused on Max and Charlie's relationship, and in that respect
the plot seems unnecessarily restricted. This results in an inherently
out-of-place scene in which Atom, all alone before a big fight, gazes
into a mirror as if to question his existence. Its inclusion into the
final cut is sure to whiz above the heads of its pre-teen target
audience, while more mature viewers might interpret it as a cheap
attempt to inject some heart far too late into the story.

Indeed, its family-friendly status is the biggest letdown of Real
Steel. At the forefront is the misguided characterisation of Charlie's
son, who is portrayed as, in my opinion, a spoiled brat who's so
cocksure of himself all the time that a little part of you wants to see
him fail. The child as an authority figure may appeal to those of Max's
age, but it detracts from the contrasting, gritty realism of Jackman's
character, and shuts down any hope of character-based realism in the
process. Other attempts to please the male tween market include obvious
allusions to toy lines and video games, as well as a mind-boggling
assault of product placement, which becomes more than a little
irritating during the second half.

The script is not disastrous. The writers dabble in clich√©s
occasionally, but not quite to the point where it numbs the mind. On a
more negative note, the screenplay does allow for an assortment of
cringe-worthy moments (which some might call 'heart-warming', depending
on personal perspective) that include dancing robots and the
introduction of more than one excessively cartoonish side character,
again limiting the level of engagement one can make with this movie.

The action set pieces in the film were visually pleasing, exploiting a
decent amount of camera angles to give the viewer an intriguing look
into the mechanics of robot rumbling. The CGI is impressive, and the
clunky (as opposed to slick) movements of the robots actually work
well, reflecting what a realistic fight between two heavy machines
would look like. Jackman does his best as always, but he alone can't
salvage a once-promising prospect that instead settles for being the
very definition of blockbuster mediocrity.

*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So
drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you
thought of my review.*
<|_=00=_|>
This movie starts out well enough, hugh jackmann at his best: quietly
driving a truck along a dusty road. his character, Charlie, is the
clich√© boxing, two-timing douche-bag roadrunner type, in this case set
in a futuristic time (although the only futuristic pieces in the movie
are robots and cellphones, and a truck that for some reason has windows
where the driver's feet are), where robots do the boxing for you.
Charlie is trying to win fights with the robots he buys or puts
together from scraps, but does not demonstrate any skill, interest or
dedication. He gets distracted and has no heart for the machines he
uses. When he gets the news that his ex-girlfriend dies, he shows no
emotional reaction, except for trying to swindle her rich sister for
the custody of their only son, which he agrees to take on for a summer
in order to receive a paycheck. The rest we can predict from here, and
does not deviate from our most boring projections. 

What could have been nice about this movie? almost everything. The
script could have been smarter, funnier, sharper. The characters feel
unnatural, especially the lead Charlie. He doesn't seem to know is he's
a good guy or just a loser going along with the success of others. In a
good movie, the protagonist classically undergoes a life-changing
transformation, in this case the bonding of father and son, which
changes the father's attitude towards life in general. However, the
change has to be believable. In this case, it lacks severely. 

When willing to forgive the corny story, the action also leaves a lot
to complain. Where is the cool slow-motion tearing apart of metal?
where is the cool martial arts / mma type fighting? the makers could
have gone completely NUTS on this, but instead it's not very exciting. 

BAD, BAD, BAD. Want action and entertainment? not here..
<|_=00=_|>
Real Steel is directed by Shawn Levy and collectively adapted to the
screen by John Gatins, Dan Gilroy and Jeremy Leven from a Richard
Matheson short story called Steel. It stars Hugh Jackman, Dakota Goyo,
Evangeline Lilly, Anthony Mackie, Kevin Durand, Hope Davis and James
Rebhorn. Music is scored by Danny Elfman and cinematography by Mauro
Fiore.

Set in the near future, robot boxing is a big crowd pulling sport.
After a struggling robot operator is introduced to an 11-year-old son
he has never known, they stumble upon a discarded robot at a junk
yard....

We can all moan about the mimicry of an idea and the clich√©s that
dominate Real Steel, but you really got to hand it to the makers for
what they have achieved. They have crafted a family film that's perfect
in this day and age. The story is one that any adult Sylvester Stallone
fan can acknowledge and appreciate, the human heartbeat pleasingly
steady, while the premise of big colourful robots beating the crap out
of each other delights youngsters and us adults who are young at heart.
Film pretty much does what any other film of this type does, lays on
the syrup in the last quarter where second chances and family strife
come thundering through the plotting. Undeniably it's hugely
derivative, events are joystick operated to get an emotional response
from a family audience, while product placement reins and the script
often sags under the weight of unoriginality. But it does uplift the
spirit and getting to the end is easy since it's so much berserker fun.
Yes it's Atom the people's champion, yes it's David V Goliath and yes!
It's Balboa V Creed. Nothing wrong with that really.

The cast don't really have to offer up much beyond being adequate
within the context of the material, though a muscular Jackman finds
good paternal chemistry with young Goyo. In fact Goyo is pleasingly not
annoying, always a bonus is that. Inevitably the robots are the stars,
they're a triumph of design and visual effects and a sight for sore
eyes, while Levy has a good handle on staging the fight sequences; even
when cribbing from Balboa. The near future look is terrific as well,
with Fiore's colour photography very appealing. Coining in over $290
million at the worldwide box office (over ¬£180 million in profit), Real
Steel found the family audience it was looking for, proving once again
that there is a market for simple and effective popcorn carnage. It's
not high art or intelligently scripted, but was anyone seriously
thinking that was going to be the case here? If you want brains with
this premise then seek out Twilight Zone episode "Steel", starring the
excellent Lee Marvin, otherwise just sit back and enjoy the ride and
let the botty bots and human interest raise the pulse and gladden the
heart respectively. 7/10

Home format release is a sparkling print, extras are annoyingly short
but the blooper reel is fun, we get a stunt deconstruction, and we
learn about the influence a certain Mr. Spielberg had on the
production.
<|_=00=_|>
I had low expectations and I am sure many people did so too, however I
did rather quite enjoy the movie for various factors in which I will
List: Every scene had purpose - No pointless scenes which have no
impact on the audience. The Ending - Original and Motivating, showed it
had a moral to the story (If you watched the movie, you would know)

HOWEVER, unfortunately the kid put me off immensely. I appreciate his
confidence in acting but his screaming and his cheesy lines were just
off putting. I also noticed that his technological understanding was
ridiculously high, which is rather unrealistic...And that is an
understatement.

That being said, I can sense a 'Real Steel 2' and would hope it turns
out as good as this first one. Sequels are very hard to perfect
especially for this movie, but I digress.

This movie is worth watching and if you plan on watching it, be sure to
prepare your tissues.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that something is happening to IMDb's
credibility. If you see the reviews on the "Immortals" you'll think the
distribution companies are trying to deceive people. Same here.

I gave this movie a 6 after much thought cause a) The robots looked
real and b) I'm a nice guy.

I'm not saying it is that bad. You won't get bored and it is not as
stupid as it could have been if you know what I mean. It's that there
is NOTHING ORIGINAL about this movie. Every scene till the ending, we,
as viewers, have chewed and swallowed over and over again. I would have
mentioned a few examples but i don't want to spoil the movie for some.
Read all the other negative reviews if you like.

Plus, what's the deal with the kid people saying he acts good etc? He's
not so bad but I am really surprised that so many people mention how
good he is in their reviews and almost no one is saying that he does
not sound like an 11 year old talking. He reminded me of Justin Bieber
to give you an idea who they probably had in mind when they wrote the
script.

I am also surprised that although many refer to movies they copied in
this one, no one mentions an 80's anime called "Plawres Sanshiro" which
to me is obviously where they took the idea from. Maybe this anime was
not released in the west.

So, if you are stoned and have nothing else to do, you can watch it but
keep in mind that it is in my opinion one of these movies that will
very soon be forever lost and forgotten in the sea of uninspired movies
that Hollywood pays it's lackeys to serve to us.

p.s. There is no way the last fight's outcome was fair!
