
I didn't expect too much from this movie after watching the trailer.
Judging from the cast and the trailer I thought that it would be at the
very least a little entertaining or just an okay movie. It is actually
very entertaining and the performances from the entire cast are solid.
I laughed a lot and more than I expected. It also has quite a few
twists and turns which I wasn't expecting and which should keep you
interested. The chemistry between Ben Stiller and Eddie Murphy is very
good too and they both provide a couple of very memorable scenes. If
you are looking for something to pass the time this movie would be a
very good choice.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see one of the first screenings of Tower Heist last
night. I went in just happy to see a free movie two weeks before its
release, but at the same time I was not expecting this movie to be that
funny. With that said, it was a lot better than I expected. 

Eddie Murphy's character was an over-the-top funny type of guy and Ben
Stiller had his moments of over-the-top humor too. The plot itself is
obviously not that believable, but let's be honest, if you go into this
movie expecting an "Italian Job-like" heist plot then you might as well
not even go. 

The supporting roles in this movie were really good and the film is
filled with great one liners. There were a couple of lines that didn't
really turn out as funny as the writer probably thought, but all that
said it is worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Heist movies have hit the screens with regularity in every language and
generation. You know how it all ends: the smart thieves get their booty
despite all odds and twists. But, very few are actually smart and slick
enough like an 'Italian Job' or an 'Oceans Eleven'. On a comparative
rating, 'Tower Heist' doesn't even get close.

'The Tower' is a luxury high rise apartment (actually filmed at Trump
International Hotel and Tower in Manhattan) where the hard working
staff led by Josh Kovacs (Ben Stiller) make sure that its high profile
tenants are pampered. 

In the backdrop of difficult markets and people losing jobs including
one of the Tower's tenants and Wall Street trader Mr. Fitzhugh (Matthew
Broderick), FBI arrests the wealthiest tenant Arthur Shaw (Alan Alda). 

Just then, Josh realizes that his pension along with that of his staff
have been wiped out in Shaw's Ponzi scheme. To make matters worse, Josh
and two others are fired for their outburst at Shaw. When the drunken
FBI agent (Tea Leoni) reveals that Shaw could be having cash hoard in
his penthouse, Josh resolves to steal it. 

For all practical purposes, a film starring Ben Stiller cannot be an
action flick. Thus, comedy is written into it. And Josh's conspirators
aren't professional thieves, but a concierge, Charlie (Casey Affleck),
an elevator operator, Enrique (Michael Pena), Fitzhugh and Odessa a
cleaner (Gabourey Sidibe). So, they hire Slide, a small-time thief
(Eddie Murphy) to teach them to do the job and Murphy adds a few
laughs.

How the bunch of simple folk handle the heist forms the rest of the
story. Contrary to other Heist flicks playing on the difficulty of the
job or employ 'Mission Impossible' style technology or stylish actors,
'Tower Heist' tries to differentiate itself as a comedy where amateur
thieves bungling up on something or the other. But, comedy is forced
and feels as if someone is holding an 'Applause' or 'Laugh' board for
the audience.

Going by the star power that 'Tower Heist' had, one would at least
expect a decent comedy. But alas, such is not the case and you don't
see concrete stuff till it gets to the end, which, in contrast to the
rest of the movie is smartly written. Well, you won't mind watching it
on Cable TV; but coughing up bucks for a movie ticket is a no-no.
<|_=00=_|>
Not as dull as its title suggests, but still somewhat flat caper flick.
It has a consistent string of laughs, but never quite hits the heights.
Brockerick's down-and-out businessman is a good start but lands few
jokes, and the plotting seems to meander. Stiller is a highlight, and
Affleck and Murphy are good solid, but Aldo is a standout.

With that much star power, you'd think the comedy would make itself,
but the actors feel confined. Weirdly, I think the movie could have
been better if it had foregone the heist and explored the Stiller
character and his buttoned-down-but-flexible managerial style. More
tower. Less heist.
<|_=00=_|>
"Tower Heist" is a movie that's never going to win awards. But if it's
playing on your television during a rainy day, you will find it is an
acceptable way to pass the time. And you'll find the movie has some
positive features. Alan Alda makes for a good slimy villain, and Ben
Stiller, Eddie Murphy, and Matthew Broderick (as well as their
co-stars) make a likable bunch of people with a goal that you hope they
will be able to reach. The actual heist has some unexpected twists as
well as some genuine suspense. Certainly, the movie is not perfect.
There are some parts of the movie when the movie seems to be missing
footage, especially at the end where not all the plot points are
resolved (though the two alternate endings on the DVD have this missing
material that was for some reason removed from the theatrical print.)
While I wouldn't say this is a movie to seek out, if you stumble upon
the opportunity to see it, it will probably give you an acceptable
amount of entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Great Cast , and direction. Eddie Murphy shined in this movie even
though his frame-time was less when compared to Ben Stiller. Still I
would've thought you could've made the plot even more

interesting by adding a car chase/action sequence which could've put
the cherry on the top. Since the movie was shot in New York , one
could've added cameos by the icons of New York like Donald Trump ,
Diddy , Jay z etc .One other thing that is lacking is the spontaneity
in the Movie , This movie could learn somethings from movies like
Ocean's Eleven Franchise where the pace is never dropped . I would say
the lack of pace was easily masked by the dialog delivery of Stiller
and Murphy. On the whole , your money is well spent nevertheless.
<|_=00=_|>
I hadn't seen a good Eddie Murphy movie in some time and when I saw the
trailer I thought it was going to be a very predictable story line. But
on the contrary...it was fresh and very entertaining! The beginning
kept me guessing how the plot was going to set up. Then, when it all
came together, their plan started to unravel...It was nice to see
Matthew Broderick acting again and in full quirk mode...He played a
great nerd! Alan Alda was a joy to hate as the bad guy and Ben Stiller
was his usual perfect lead man! The casting was perfect and the music
kept the excitement going until the end! If you are looking for a fun,
"feel good" movie with good acting, then this is a must see! Long live
Robin Hood!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Josh Kovaks (Ben Stiller) is the perfect employee. Managing a high end
apartment skyscraper in New York, his team look after and cater for all
the foibles of their rich charges.

Living in the penthouse suite with a rooftop swimming pool emblazoned
with a Dollar Bill mosaic is Arthur Shaw (Alan Alda), a wealthy
financier with Steve McQueen's Ferrari in his living room.

How did it get up there, they took it apart and moved it piece by
piece, subtle this is not.

Josh plays online chess with Arthur, likes him and entrusts the
employees pension fund to him to "double their money", unbeknown to his
work colleagues.

With a story ripped from recent headlines, Shaw is soon in trouble with
the FBI, notably pretty detective (Tea Leoni). Subsequently, the
employees are left searching for their lost pension funds turning the
movie into a "let's get even" escapade.

Josh is largely loyal but when rattled he can and does takes matters
into his own hands, vintage car aficionados should look away.

Following subsequent events, we are left with a larcenous but
incompetent gang of six. Likable and nominally in charge Josh, Charlie
(Casey Affleck) who is not much good at anything but has a pregnant
wife and extreme motivation. New boy Enrique (Michael Pena) who is not
the brightest bulb, Slick (Eddie Murphy) supposed criminal mastermind
but none of the above. Odessa, a chambermaid with a bizarre Jamaican
accent and a handy sideline in safe-cracking (Gabourey Siibe) and
lastly, Mr Fitzhugh (Matthew Broderick), depressed, straitlaced,
crumpled ex-banker and ex-apartment owner.

We are all set for a decent farce with elements of drama, however the
movie is set for fun and mostly delivers.

This a rare Hollywood comedy that is actually funny. Whether the group
are planning their heist using Lego, getting distracted with Female
Sexuality issues or breaking off mid heist to walk a residents pet dog.

Overall of course it's all very silly and preposterous but it is good
to see Eddie Murphy funny again, his sequence with Odessa, as she
teaches him the in's and out's of safe-cracking is well done. Stiller
largely plays the straight-man, allowing the others to bounce their
comedic lines off him. Matthew Broderick is perhaps the standout,
managing to make Mr Fitzhugh both sad and funny at the same time,
Broderick's comedic timing used to great effect.

It is good to see Judd Hirsch on the big screen, getting a few good
scenes as the overall building boss. Alan Alda also lifts the film with
his considerable talents bought to bear on the smarmy Mr Shaw.

Like any comedy caper, the tone needs to be right and the project is
very much a light souffl√© but Director Brett Ratner manages to pull off
the various elements, to make this a fun night in.

Summary 

That rare event, a Hollywood comedy that manages to both entertain and
provide a light sprinkling of social commentary.

The film is largely designed to be a crowd pleaser and largely fulfils
that role admirably http://julesmoviereviews.blogspot.co.nz/
<|_=00=_|>
Tower Heist is a comedy. I know it just by looking the casts,
especially Eddie Murphy. The real tipping point of the comedy is when
Eddie shows up a lot and join the group. Other casts like Ben Stiller
usually plays comedy with serious faces and as I predict, also in this
movie.

Indeed, this movie brings so much comedy in it that I can't stop
laughing so many times. Clever comedy in dialog , scene and even when
the action began, totally brought me to a fresh moment. It's a
refreshing comedy. I like it.

There are several twists in this movie which makes the story even
better. In things I even didn't think of, the story bends a little bit
and make a slight confusing moment. But not in the end, I don't know
why but I knew that the car must be in the pool. I knew that because
it's typical. You see the pool the very first moment of the movie but
then you didn't see it a lot till the end. The director surely gives
clue but in the end He didn't want it to be seen clearly that the pool
is the key where the car is hidden.

I thought it'll be more tougher than that to break into a tower's
penthouse. With all that security camera and protection explained
before, I don't think it'll be that easy to break in. I think it'll be
more interesting if there was more tension in it.

Great story. Didn't get bored at all. Perfect plan for a robbery. Good
ending even not the best.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Just to let you know where I'm coming from: As usual I avoided reading
anything about the movie before seeing it. A film is ALWAYS better if
it's like a book by an unknown author that you picked up off a
bookstall as you were heading to the airport. Seriously, why do film
companies essentially blurt out a film story's secrets that will take
any surprises out of the first hour of a film? Maybe this is why I
enjoyed the first half so much compared to other reviewers. It's a good
yarn that is not as obvious as some would have you believe. Ben Stiller
doesn't go too far from his safety zone playing Josh Kovacs, a
reliable, serious, not-exactly-happy-but-putting-up-with-it manager of
a ritzy apartment block. You like him. He's decent, loyal and almost a
slave to the wealthy, privileged tenants who hold a great sense of
entitlement to the things the majority of us don't have. Here's the
subtext. He's like most of us today who live in a society that is
convinced those less well off should get the "trickles" that come down
from government payouts to our betters (BTW, didn't anybody in power
look up the word "trickle" before okaying this?). And Stiller does it
very well. He's getting older and greyer. He's fit and precise but a
shade weary, repressed by a life of looking after the wishes and
feelings of others and foregoing his own. (Probably coincidence but an
almost interesting one: Kovacs backwards is Scavok. Sciavo in Italian
is 'slave'). Alan Alda is the initially affable Arthur Shaw, a big guy
on Wall Street. You like him too. He's friendly, avuncular and a man of
the people. Director Brett Ratner gives us a sharp and snappy whirl
through the characters and milieu with Dante Spinotti's strong and
glossy cinematography hitting all the right notes. There's a great
support cast of workers of an ethnic rainbow who we already like from
their film histories that include Michael Pe≈àa and Gabourey Sidibe,
rising sufficiently above their paper stereotypes to just about forgive
the cynical choices in creating them. Matthew Broderick is overly
convincing as a crushed and ruined investment banker, a personality
that exhausts your patience but must have seemed a good idea at the
time. Casey Afflek shows a great talent for comedy timing as Josh's
unreliable brother in law and Eddie Murphy steals scenes by his
observations on "Lesbian titties" or by simply smiling. The romantic
interest is FBI agent Tea Leoni, who is invariably wonderful in
anything and doesn't fail here, giving depth to words that are
sometimes as thin as the ink they were written in. She's not a
twenty-something anymore and the camera irritatingly avoids real close
ups. Ah well. That voice. I'd be happy just to listen to her but would
have preferred if they didn't worry so about showing the forty-ish
female lead as anything less than airbrushed. Like Eddy Murphy she
ultimately seems grossly underused. I'm not giving much away in an IMDb
review to say that Alda's Shaw turns out to be a Bernie Maddoff
character callously looking to get away with ripping off thousands of
investors and cheating justice as well. The pensions and savings of
tower staff look to be lost and when Josh sees first hand Shaw's
indifference to the plight of his fellow workers he gathers a team of
unlikely robbers to regain the usual 'hidden stash' in the penthouse
apartment. So we come to the big flaw of a film that needed one last
rewrite: the director and the script writers get us to the top of the
building, but they don't know how to get us down safely. They are
altogether deft and efficient up to this point but run scared when
presented with the job of bringing all the threads of action and
personality to their just ends. We get resolution without closure. I
understand there are other versions of the ending. As is now becoming
familiar perhaps the DVD will be the finished product, where we are
allowed to have several alternatives mingle into a whole and satisfy us
beyond the clean-cut simplicity of the screen version. (nb. There is
yet another reference to a chess game between villain and hero that
like dozens of others in recent times sounds like the writers'
knowledge comes from a single Wikipedia article. Enough with the chess
motif!)
