
This movie relates more than just a story of "Vengeance". Besides
proving that killing begets killing - it consists of numerous fine
details that reveal the hard work done at getting to the depth of
things:

For instance, only characters that get shot in the head slump to the
ground. The rest take time to die - they walk a few steps, spurt blood
and express a look of helplessness and inevitability before going out.
Yes its horrifying to look at, which is the point, but it is also real. 

Every character is different, and though common in their desire for
vengeance, their temperaments are clearly distinguishable in the way
the hit men approach their task. Even the terrorists are not
stereotyped into hysterical, screaming lunatics. They range from the
visibly nervous to the cool Abu Salameh with the movie star style. They
are poets, intellectuals and guerrillas each with his story of the
conflict. They speak passionately about home - a recurring theme, along
with "family". Moreover, Spielberg does not attempt to mitigate the
grotesque manner of their deaths, for the blood of the targeted men
flows as freely as that of their victims - and when they are blown up,
their body parts dangle from ceiling fans. You are not here to feel
satisfaction over anyone's death, Spielberg says to the audience. Or as
Caine would say in Kung Fu: "The taking of a life does no one honour."

There are no easy "shoot-em-dead" eliminations. There are neighbors,
bystanders and obstacles that must be avoided and protected - with
variable success. Innocent people may be harmed - and one has to live
with that.

There are no mathematical certainties about the potential damage a bomb
will cause. 

Perspectives and convictions can change, sometimes regrettably. "Don't
think about it - just do it" says Avner at one stage when a member of
the team expresses doubts about a target's guilt. But at the end he
wants evidence that the men he despatched were justifiably killed.
Implausible? No; it is only when he has been reunited with his family
and experiences the affection of wife and child that he allows himself
to reflect from a different perspective - their targets had families
too - what if he had killed the wrong men?

The paranoia that permeates the world of spies and assassins is built
up gradually - to the point where every survivor mistrusts everybody
else. One is doomed all one's life to walk with ears strained for
following footsteps. The length of the movie creates the right
atmosphere for this idea. 

The end dissatisfies many because they would like a reassurance, a note
of optimistic finality - but Spielberg rightly offers none. It would be
dishonest of him to offer a false but comforting illusion.

It is interesting to contrast this movie with "Paradise Now" that has
no violence, a modest budget, and views the conflict from the
Palestinian camp. Both narrate completely different stories - yet, in
their respective ways, both humanize their subjects, defuse myths about
glory, and arrive at the same conclusion: "There's no peace at the end
of this."
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Spielberg has absolutely everything at his disposal, he can make
an epic in no time at all. But, even he must know that films, most
films have a soul and that can't be rushed. Why the need to rush this
film into screens? For Oscar consideration? If there was a film that
needed nurturing and thought was this one. The length is a flaw in
itself. It makes it appear self indulgent and, quite frankly,annoying.
If one could, and one should, put that aside, "Munich" is a remarkable
experience. Tony Kushner and Eric Roth deal with people in all its
complexity - a welcome new detail in a Spielberg film - and that gives
"Munich" its most powerful aspect. Eric Bana is extraordinary and the
humanity of his gaze is confusing and recognizable at the same time.
His crying at hearing his child's voice over the phone is as real as
his hardness when he massacres his targets. The controversy raising
after the first public screenings seems pre-fabricated by a marketing
machine. The questioning of Bana's character and the appalling nature
of revenge can't be controversial it's at the base of human nature. To
call Spielberg "no friend of Israel" is as absurd as it is suspicious.
No, this movie is a thriller, based on actual events, directed by the
greatest craftsman of the last 30 years in a record amount of time. Go
see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading over the comments and message board postings for Munich on this
site, I get the impression that at least 75% of the people here are
less interested in discussing the film and its message than the
Arab-Israeli conflict in general. I've read a lot of baseless
criticisms, and I honestly think that the whole point went over most of
these people's heads. The ones who have actually seen the movie, that
is.

This film was a masterpiece, and it's refreshing to see such a heavy,
thought-provoking film released by a major studio. Anyone who claims
that the film is pro-Israel or biased in either direction really has
brought their own baggage to the theatre with them, or they haven't
actually seen the film firsthand.

To anyone seriously interested in seeing this film, PLEASE do not
listen to the pseudo-intellectuals who are posting their ignorant,
uninformed opinions of the film at IMDb. Don't go to the theatre
expecting to have your own personal bias (whichever it may be)
reinforced. The only bias you will find in this film is your own.
<|_=00=_|>
'Munich' is, on the whole, a straight forward hit-man movie. The
assignments are handed out; the team is assembled, each with their own
specialty; and they travel about Europe plotting and carrying out their
hits. We have the inevitable paranoia, the double agents and suspicious
loyalties. So far, so familiar. Only 'Munich' is wrapped in the thin
veneer of 'history' and 'fact', and mob bosses and corporate espionage
is replaced with Middle Eastern politics and Israeli-Arab relations. I
mention this because the politics of 'Munich' are really nothing more
than a topical plot devise, used the same way as cold-war relations and
soviet villainy was used thirty years ago.

What prevents 'Munich' becoming just a generic updated-cold-war
thriller, is the sheer quality of the production. From the flawless
recreation of European capitals in the early seventies to the
impeccable costume design to the beautiful cinematography Â– 'Munich' is
a visually fascinating movie. The performances are universally
outstanding, with Bana in particular bringing a sense of tough nobility
that seems to be his forte. The script is intelligent and
thought-provoking, and it is Kushner's focus on the emotional and
psychological landscape of his characters rather than the details of
political contract killing, that ultimately lifts the movie above the
generic. The kind of self-consciously poetic prose for which he is
known, so often seeming unrealistically erudite, is kept to a minimum,
and when it does appear, is so beautifully written and performed that
all reservations are forgotten.

Ultimately, the greatest praise must be reserved for Spielberg, who
has, with 'Munich', created perhaps the first truly adult movie of his
career. We see no signs of his trademark sentimentality, his descents
into fantasy, his childish simplification of motivation. With 'Munich',
he embraces ambiguity and complexity, and as a result, has invited
criticism from those who prefer their drama simplistically black and
white. Above all, one can't help but wonder what the Spielberg oeuvre
would look had he not dedicated his career to kid's movies, fantasies
and feel-good sci-fi.

'Munich' is an intelligent and gripping thriller that is a major
contender for award recognition, and deservedly so. An outstanding
achievement.
<|_=00=_|>
In an interview given shortly before the release of "Munich," director
Steven Spielberg discussed his film in the context of world terror
today, as follows: "Somewhere inside all this intransigence, there has
to be a prayer for peace." 

I personally recall the tragic events of the 1972 Olympic games in
Munich, as I had just graduated from college and was following closely
the moving and graphic images on television, as described so vividly by
newscasters Jim McKay and Peter Jennings. The opening scene of "Munich"
recreates the attack on the dormitory and the subsequent killing of the
athletes at the airport. Those were ten minutes of taut and riveting
drama.

But the main dramatic impetus of "Munich" is the retaliation on the
Palestinian planners of the "Black September" massacre. The strike
force is led by the character Avner, a zealous and patriotic member of
Israel's Mossad. Along with Eric Bana in the role of Avner, the entire
cast of "Munich" is superb. Geoffrey Rush is a standout as the Mossad
handler of Avner, and in an all-too-brief scene, Lynn Cohen turns in a
charismatic performance as Golda Meir.

But "Munich" is not a film to discuss in terms of star performances,
and much credit should go to Tony Kushner and Eric Roth for the
thoughtful ensemble screenplay. The most memorable moments in the film
are those involving the hit team led by Avner. In the planning and
carrying out of the assassinations by a small group of men, it becomes
clear that the participants are no more than ordinary people who become
obsessed with killing. Thus Avner, who would prefer the domestic world
of living with his wife and newborn daughter, descends into a virtual
state of madness as a result of the killing frenzy.

The Greek poet Aeschylus wrote one of the most expressive works of
literature on the theme of "an eye for an eye" in the revenge trilogy
"Oresteia." That epic work dramatizes the culmination of the long cycle
of murder within the ill-fated House of Atreus in Greek mythology. The
killings finally end when the goddess Athena establishes the law court
in Athens to provide human justice, as opposed to blood vengeance.
Orestes succumbs to the pursuit of the furies and spirals into madness.
That was the precise tragic journey of Avner, as depicted in "Munich."

Mr. Spielberg's concept of "intransigence" gets to the heart of the
matter in our own modern tragic experience. In the Oxford English
Dictionary, the word intransigence is defined as "uncompromising
hostility; irreconcilability." Like the "Oresteia," the film "Munich"
provides a balanced and powerful commentary on the human impulse of "an
eye for an eye" revenge. The ancient Greek concept of justice meant
something like "scale" or "balance" used to resolve a seemingly
irreconcilable conflict. The thoughtful and powerful film "Munich"
offers us the opportunity to meditate on this concept, not for the 5th
century B.C. world of Aeschylus, but for our own.
<|_=00=_|>
Gandhi said, "An eye for an eye only makes the whole world blind." What
distinguishes justice from vengeance? This echoes throughout Steven
Spielberg's "Munich". "Munich" is powerful and perhaps Spielberg's most
compelling and thought provoking work. He weaves a tapestry of
political and social threads focusing on terrorism and the cost of
violence. "Munich" is truly amazing in balancing linear storytelling
and horrific acts of violence, demonstrating the impact of the
aftermath. Spielberg's "Munich" seen through the eyes of Eric Bana's
Avner is a powerful allegory that even in the most just and noble
fights against terror we eventually become that which we despise.
"Munich" really serves as a reminder. Mossad team leader Avner played
by Eric Bana is absolutely riveting as the man who begins this
righteous cause only to find that the cost is his soul. Anver asks,
"When does it ever end?" 

At the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, Palestinian terrorists brutally
murdered the Israeli wrestling team. This political statement was seen
around the world and depicted in gory detail by Director Spielberg.
Based on the book "Vengeance" by George Jones, the screenplay by Tony
Kushner and Eric Roth tells the story of the aftermath of this tragedy.
A great Lynn Cohen who plays Prime Minister Golda Meir says, "Every
civilization finds it necessary to negotiate compromises with its own
values." Poetic words for what follows are a search and destroy
mission. The Mossad assembles a team lead by Avner (Bana) to track down
and kill with extreme prejudice all those involved in the terrorist
action in Munich. 11 names are identified for execution. These
executions are also intended to serve as statements. Anver though an
inexperienced operative and not an assassin is selected for the covert
mission by Ephriam (the great Geoffrey Rush) for being a strong and
effective leader of men. The assassin team is composed of Steve (Daniel
CraigÂ—the next James Bond), Carl (Ciaran Hinds), Robert (Mathieu
Kassovitz), and Hans (Hanns Zischler). They are dissociated from the
Mossad, i.e. they technically don't exist.

In accepting the lead, Avner must leave his beautiful and pregnant wife
Daphna (a very strong Ayelet Zorer) for what could be a number of
years. Carl has his doubts about Avner, telling him that he was chosen
because he is a "good soldier". Soon Carl respects Avner for his quiet
force and conscience. Attack of conscience and paranoia soon engulf the
team as they become entrenched in the world of underground intelligence
for hire. Avner pays large sums of money for information on the
whereabouts of his targets from Louis (wonderfully shady Mathiew
Amalric) and his wealthy Papa (weary and noble Michael Lonsdale). Avner
soon finds that whomever he kills is eventually replaced, and that he
and potentially his family is now a target for the terrorists he was
assigned to hunt down and kill. The realization is that it truly never
ends. Bana is amazing as a trapped animal in the scene in his thrashed
apartmentÂ—searching for weapons of his demise. Paranoia sets in, and
the path of justice and vengeance become blurred. In a poignant scene
Robert pleads to Avner, "When I lose my righteousness, I lose
everythingÂ…" 

Nothing about "Munich" is easy, though it is simple. I believe that is
Steven Spielberg's intention. "Munich" could be tighter in spots,
though this does not diminish the movie's power and impact. Eric Bana
emerges as the noble hero battling to salvage his own humanity and his
very soul. "When does it ever end?" Perhaps even in the current context
there is no real answerÂ—maybe what Spielberg is getting at. It is a
reminder of our humanity, that even the most righteous cause may cost
our souls. "Munich" is truly a powerful movie worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a big Spielberg fan, and find he often goes for cheap
emotional manipulation in his films, especially his endings. I was
there fore amazed at the unflinching control he exercised in Munich,
his utter unwillingness to flinch at complexities, his ability to
dissect the ideological and moral sureties of all sides within the
natural rhythms of the thriller genre. There is so much to praise in
this film, because it is utterly seamless film-making with a keen eye
for every little detail that never reveals the intense precision behind
its construction.

While some have found the film "disengaged," I found that it pulled at
the viewer's conscience through the central characters, not only Bana's
Israeli agent Avner and his cohorts, most of who slowly find themselves
gnawed by doubts of their mission's morality and effectiveness, but
also smaller characters as well, drawn with indelible deftnessÂ—the
weary ex-French Resistance fighter now a trader in deadly information
to stateless agents because of his cynicism about recurrent corrupt
regimes replacing each other, or the PLO operative who debates
Palestinian strategy and justification with Avner, who he wrongly
believes to be a German left-wing terrorist who is "soft" on Jews
because of the Holocaust. The economy of Spielberg's film-making is
breathtaking in hindsight, so that what at first seems a relatively
flat and emotionless exercise in historical recreation slowly seeps
into one's subconscious and then moves upward, in quick bursts of
sudden bursts of emotional and intellectual recognition by the viewer.
These are real human beings, these are fighters in a war they believe
in desperately and whose people have suffered terribly yet can find no
real peace.

For this Kushner and Roth's screenplay must get much credit, the crisp
narrative development intertwined with intellectually rigorous set
pieces and flat-out armrest-clutching actions sequences. John Williams,
who has managed to be understated in the past, is equally adept at
building (or feinting) tension and subtly commenting on character
development. Check out the slightly dissonant piano in the last scene
to see what I mean. Longtime Spielberg collaborator Janusz Kaminski
creates some amazing framing devices, especially as the action
sequences are about to unfold and during moments of intimate
conversations imbued with tension. Michael Kahn's editing is crisp and
occasionally startling, as in the way the conclusion of the
horrifically bungled Munich "rescue" is related. The retelling of the
entire event from break-in to conclusion is doled out in bits and
pieces in what seems at first an attempt to soften its impact but in
the end, entwined as it is with all of the complicated issues, is
finally revealed as a masterful means of achieving the fully deserved
emotional impact within a complexly rendered ideological, moral and
strategic matrix. There is not a false note in any of the acting, and
the casting is uniformly spot-on.

About the politics. The radicals on either side will reject the film
out of hand because it dares to render both sides as human and worthy
of understanding. But attempting to understand choices of violence and
vengeance as strategies does not in any way mean condoning them.
Certainly, anyone who feels that the film somehow allows a viewer to
walk away thinking that Black September was justified in its attack is
probably projecting his or her fears about how some imagined uninformed
viewer might react. Instead, the film demonstrates that whether one
feels either or both sides justified it doesn't mannerÂ—neither side can
win through violence at this point. This was Yitzhak Rabin's great
insightÂ—you don't make peace with your friends, you make peace with
your enemies. His Israeli Jewish murderers wanted violence to continue,
believing that only a continued state of war would keep Israel from
giving back land they saw as bound up with their faith but which
international law, historical study and the basic "facts on the ground"
reveal to be bound to be returned to the Palestinians. Ariel Sharon, of
all people, came to understand this, though without the larger vision
and magnanimity of spirit that his fellow warrior Rabin discovered.
Spielberg's message is clearÂ—the extremists will choose war over peace,
but must so many of us side with the extremists because of our fear of
appearing weak or "giving in"? A last note on politicsÂ—there is clear
relevance to the United States' current predicament post-9/11. One can
almost here Cheney or Bush making the speech made by Israeli premier
Golda Meir in the film (an extraordinary piece of recreation that
transcends mere imitation), only probably with more moral surety and
less sense of resignation. Anyone paying attention to world reaction to
Guantanimo, Abu Gharib, the bombing of Afghan and Iraqi villages and
the spiriting away of suspected terrorists through "rendition" for
torture in "friendly" nations must be aware that whether one leans hard
or soft on such matters, there is going to be a price to be paid. The
hardliners believe we will just keep punching and slugging and
eventually the bad guys will go down; that they will not reproduce
themselves like the many-headed Hydra or germinate and reproduce by the
thousands in the fetid waters of our perceived hypocrisyÂ—whether you
think it justified or not it doesn't matter. As Spielberg makes clear
in this film, all that matters in the end is peace or violence, and
whoever ultimately desires the former had better be damn sure that
their use of the latter is measured by the awareness that it use will
create debts that will need to be repaid in the end, and the debtors
will most likely be the generations to come on all sides.
<|_=00=_|>
Another dip in the Spielberg pool and I come away drenched in emotion.
I was a freshman in high school in Texas during the Munich games. I was
stunned by the events and understood little.

Today, I am still stunned by Munich and every terrorist act that
followed, but I understand so much more and grieve. Spielberg gives us
a powerful glimpse into the meaning of home, family, honor, history,
ethics, and faith. The movie is not about the Jews and Arabs. It's
about human beings. It's about us.

The narrative is driven by our connection to Avner. We watch as Eric
Bana opens himself up in a way that the likes of a George Clooney in
Syriana only dreams of.

This is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think the "perfect" movie has been made yet. I don't know that
a masterpiece is necessarily perfect, so, viewers will undoubtedly find
faults in this movie, some of which have already been expressed in the
comment section. But masterpiece or not, I really liked this movie. It
told a particular side of the story and told it well. And if you
witnessed any of the tragedy of Munich in the summer of 1972, you feel
a connection to the events portrayed in this movie. We, the audience,
become a member of the hit squad able to empathize with the angst in
becoming assassins with consciences, as collateral damage does matter.
But the trouble with trying to maintain a conscience is that each notch
on the belt is another slash of your humanity ripped from your soul.
You squirm from living in the uncertainty of trusting people you are
suspicious of in order to fulfill your mission. You nervously plan the
pathway to the next target. You seethe with the frenzy of the kill. You
perpetually twitch in the paranoia of becoming the hunted, "sleeping"
with one eye open and a finger on the trigger. In the beginning you are
swept away by your sense of duty to God and country above all else. In
the end you are cynical, angry and afraid about what you have done and
what you have become.

There are many other sides of this story. It is left to other movies or
media to tell those versions. I won't take this one as a definitive
history lesson on the subject. Instead I'll take it as a captivating
tale of a struggle of life and death played on a complex stage of
geopolitics.
<|_=00=_|>
If you ask me who was the most talented director working in film today,
I'd hesitate for a while. Then I'd look at you and say, "Probably
Steven Spielberg'. A lot of film directors in Hollywoodwho are
well-known are overrated (Oliver Stone, Sofia Coppola, Anthony
Minghella, etc), but one that is not overrated at all is Spielberg. The
man is obviously a cinematic genius who thrilled and enthralled us with
his grim but unimaginably powerful WWII epic 'Saving Private Ryan', his
still-frightening 'Jaws', his severely underrated 'Amistad' and of
course, his heart-breaking masterpiece that still remains one of the
twenty best films of all time 'Schindler's List'. I can't even begin to
describe to you how jazzed I was about the controversial vengeance
drama 'Munich', which was Spielberg's first Oscar-contending movie in
seven years. After viewing it I have to say I was a bit let down, but I
still got what I predicted I'd get going into the theater -- the best
film of 2005. Spielberg challenges our beliefs on justice with his
intense but painfully realistic bone-chilling masterpiece. You have to
see this movie.

Almost around the age of 45-50 remembers the 1972 Olympics incident
that happened in Munich. On a gloom September day, eleven innocent
Israeli athletes were abducted and taken prisoner by a mob of
Palestinian terrorists. The terrorists held them hostage at the Munich
airport, then based on a mistake by the Munich police department many
terrorists were killed and took all of the unfortunate hostages with
them. The film starts after these events when Prime Minister Golda Meir
(Lynn Cohen), secretly decides to start a small mission to find the
Palestinian's responsible and murder them. She hands the case down to
case officer Ephraim (Academy Award Winner Geoffrey Rush - Shine) who
hands it over to Meir's ex-bodyguard Avner (Eric Bana - Troy). Avner
must leave his family to undergo this mission and form a team to help
him complete it. The team is; Steve (Daniel Craig - Layer Cake), the
trigger-man, Carl (Ciarin Hinds - HBO's Rome) the clean-up man, Robert
(Mathieu Kassovitz - Birthday Girl), an ex-toy maker turned explosives
expert, and the elderly Hans (Hanns Zischler - Undercover) who is a
forging expert. They five go on a mission of vengeance, but are soon
faced with unexpected problems in the process and feelings of guilt
which lead some to believe maybe what they are doing isn't righteous.

When creating 'Munich' Steven Spielberg could have sided one way or the
other on issue 'revenge killing', but he doesn't, and I strongly admire
that. Instead, Spielberg does what any intellectual would do, he
presents situations and historical truths and makes you decide for
yourself. That's something you can't expect nasty politically-slanted
morons like Michael Moore to do. Spielberg provides us with the best
film directing in two years with his quiet stroke of genius that is
Munich. Spielberg's directing is both electrifying during the action
sequences and beautiful during the poignant and thought- provoking
scenes like when Kassovitz's Robert questions Bana's Avner about the
good of what they are doing in a subway station on the way to
assassinate another target. Munich's film editing and cinematography
both should win Oscars, while the acting (which isn't getting much
acclaim from award mediums) is frightfully close to perfect. Eric Bana
gives the performance of his career as Avner that will no doubt impress
you, while Kassovitz, Zischler and Craig exceptional also. Rome's
Ciarin Hinds turns in an outstanding performance as the ultra-cool
clean-up guy Carl that should also win an Oscar nomination, while
Geoffrey Rush does wonders with a small role as Avner's case officer
(so does Lynn Cohen as Golda Meir). 

If Spielberg's 'Munich' doesn't tug at your chest at the end, I would
question your humanity. Spielberg doesn't butter this up so it goes
down easier, he aims straight for the gut with his razor sharp realism
and rubs salt in the wound. 'Munich' isn't a fun film, but there is no
question it is a riveting and nearly flawless one. You will have a lot
to talk about after the film has ended. With 'Munich', Steven Spielberg
gives us one hell of a history lesson. Grade: A (screened at AMC Deer
Valley 30, Phoenix, Arizona, 1/7/05)
