
Took my 5 year old son to see this one at a Saturday Matinée.

I can't remember the last time i saw a more un-engaging kids flick.

My kid was noticeably bored from the word go, but i'll give him credit
he was a trooper through the first half. I've seen him get restless
before in the theatre, this one he was more or less falling asleep.

When we got to the scene where Gargamel peed in the restaurant i was
ready to check out, but i would brave it if my son was having a good
time.

Wonder of wonders, at that point he turned to me and said "Dad, i have
to go to the bathroom, but when we're done there can we not come back
into the theatre and just go home?"

Tells you all you need to know about this one.

Don't waste your time or your money.
<|_=00=_|>
Clever producers and marketers have known it ever since: when in doubt,
take some beloved children's comic-, cartoon- or toy-franchise and put
them into a 'hip' contemporary setting (that's NYC or Los Angeles to
you and me). This has worked many times before, having produced such
monumental box-office hits like "Masters of the Universe", "The
Neverending Story 3" and the record-breaking "Howard the Duck". Not to
forget that epic events when Jason went to New York or when Mr. Bean
went to Los Angeles. To paraphrase a currently fashionable comedian:
all those films were "WINNING"  and so is "The Smurfs".

Hollywood, we understand that a buck means more than anything to you
but please  pretty please  stop raping our childhood classics. Mr.
Spielberg, if you happen to read this, please: "LEAVE TINTIN ALONE!" So
as to not let this review degenerate into a complete rant: the acting
was alright (for your average children's TV-show ala Sesame Street) and
Frank Azaria, well, let's just say that I liked his various voices in
"The Simpsons". The real problem is the Smurfs themselves, who seem
soul- and lifeless as, almost as if they had been created by a
computer.

How would I grade this calculated, corporate train-wreck? Well, I'll
give it a finger but it certainly isn't the 'thumbs-up' one. Save a few
bucks, rent the Hanna-Barbera "Smurfs"-series or treat yourself with
the original, "The Smurfs and the Magic Flute".

I'll be seeing you next year for the Hollywood remake of "Asterix the
Gaul". I'll let you in on a secret: Asterix and Obelix go through a
mystical time-gate and end up in New York, where they'll be playing
Guitar Hero  with a former child-star  and it's in 3D! But all that's
top-secret inside information. Now excuse me, I'll have to go and pass
water over the grave of Peyo.
<|_=00=_|>
I know film makers never set out to make an awful movie. In their heart
they start the production with the hopes the final product will be a
good one. But after seeing this, I wonder what they really had hoped
for. Even during pre-production someone, a producer with some ounce of
talent, should have hit the breaks on this one. In the end they all
must have realised what a huge pile of toxic waste this is.

If you're going to make an animated Smurf movie, then do so and let it
be animated in it's own Smurf world. Don't involve real humans,
animals, locations etc.

The final product stink and everyone involved should be thoroughly
ashamed of themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched The Smurfs with my wife, my 10 year old son, and my 5
year old daughter and we all enjoyed the movie very much. I had
promised to take my kids to see this after seeing the first preview
several months ago and I was concerned with the poor ratings on IMDb
and poor critic reviews. However, I have to say that I was pleasantly
surprised at how good the film was. It had a good story line and was
much funnier than I expected.

The live characters were cast very well with Hank Azaria playing a
perfect Gargamel and the smurf voices were good as well, especially
Jonathan Winters as Papa Smurf and Katy Perry as Smurfette (my
daughter's favorite).

Bottom line, if you have small children or you were a fan of the
cartoon growing up, you will enjoy this film.
<|_=00=_|>
What was I thinking? I knew this movie was going to be bad, but yet I
felt compelled to go see it for myself. I was never really a big fan of
the Smurfs cartoon but yet I remember I wanted that Smurfs Atari game
so bad. Later I found out that it was horrible but I'm sure I would
have loved it as a kid. Why did I go see this?

It's not completely terrible. Hank Azaria did a very good job playing
Gargamel and I could actually see the cartoon counterpart that he was
based on. I didn't see this in 3D but I can imagine it would be pretty
entertaining to watch in that format. I just didn't pay for the 3D
because I didn't want to pay more for a bad film, and I had been
suffering with headaches lately. I didn't want to make it worse.

With that being said, the film centers around the Smurfs escaping from
Gargamel who found them in their village. In some weird way, they come
across this portal they knew nothing about until that time, and they
are forced to go into this portal in order to escape from Gargamel and
his CG cat Azriel. There, the Smurfs stumble upon New York City where
they find the care of Doogie Houser and his cute, pregnant wife. They
must find a way back home while being hunted by Gargamel on the streets
of New York, and Doogie is trying to not to get fired from his
cosmetics job.

One of my biggest problems is that I never felt connected to the
Smurfs. The only ones that I really knew was Papa Smurf (who can ever
forget Papa Smurf anyway), Smurfette and Clumsy Smurf who the only
reason why I knew him is because they always reference how clumsy he
is, gets left behind, and I knew that he was going to be the hero by
the end of it all. Movie 101: If a character in your film is the
underdog, he will always prevail in the end. This film is no exception.

The film is basically sloppy writing through and through, especially in
the ending. The film could have ended easily by having the adults
handle all the work but we couldn't have a Smurfs climax without having
them be the center of it. So they basically just have the adults just
stand around somewhere as the Smurfs get their butts kicked by
Gargamel.

It's a kid's film and this film knows it. The kids will eat this up
despite probably never seeing the cartoons. It wasn't the worst film
I've seen but certainly not the greatest of kid's films. It was
directed by Raja Gosnell. I should have stayed far away. Smurf you,
Raja.
<|_=00=_|>
The Smurfs 1/2 Star

Of all the bad movies based on cartoon series and comic strips, this
has got to be the worst I've ever seen, the story is simple, the smurfs
try to get away from gargamel when all of sudden they get time traveled
to what you believe New York City of all places then they meet a man
played by an embarrassed Neil Patrick Harris who has so good in Clara's
heart and TV shows like doogie houser m.d. and how I Met you mother and
some other woman to protect the smurfs or else gargamel will turn them
into gold for what reason. Now the smurfs I Remember from the cartoon
was funny, amazing and had a good heart, this one is just absolutely
nasty, truly dreadful and truly, absolutely unnecessary.

The Acting is in this one is either horrible, waste of talent, (what
the hell is katy perry doing in this piece of junk, truly terrible),
the screenplay is simply a big mess, the CGI effects are horrible, the
3D is trash, the musical score is full of crap and everything else is
truly stupid and here are some things that I Truly hated about this
movie

That one smurf would shake his ass, one smurf would fall into the
toilet after he blew his bubble, that the smurfs would also look at a
Sony electronic billboard and guess who release this movie,You guess it
Columbia pictures, the makers of this film and the same ones who did
two dreadfully bad films like Leonard Part 6 and Ishtar almost 25 years
ago. the makers of this piece of truly dreadful trash oaught to be
ashamed of themselves, shame on them and shame on this movie.

and who is owned by Columbia Pictures, you guess it Sony. Kids might
like this, because they haven't seen the original cartoons.

Peyo, Don Messick, Hanna-Barbera and others are rolling in their graves
as we speak.

This is the worst movie of the year and one of the worst movies I've
ever seen.

A Pure absolute dead zone.

They outta to be ashamed of themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
Thank goodness The Smurfs was not the god-awful trainwreck everyone
made it out to be, or else I would have wasted thirty minutes in line
to see another failed cartoon adaptation.

I won't say it's good, but it was surprisingly not bad. Of course, The
Smurfs does not exactly have enough substance to hold a full-grown
adult's attention for all of its 86 minutes, but it is a surefire hit
with the kids. The linear and simple plot follows a small group of
Smurfs that get accidentally sucked into a portal to the human world
while trying to escape the evil wizard Gargamel (Hank Azaria). The
little blue people quickly enlist the help of married couple Patrick
(Neil Patrick Harris) and Grace (Jayma Mays) to protect them from
Gargamel, who plans to harvest the Smurfs' essence for magical power,
and to re-create a portal that only happens once in a blue moon

The movie includes some emotional subplots with Papa Smurf and Patrick,
who feels he is unready to start his own family; though it all becomes
pretty unnecessary in the face of the Smurfs' main goal to return home.
Humor, again, mainly appeals to the kids, sporting sight gag after
sight gag, but every once in a while there's a clever reference thrown
in for the older folks in the audience. Hank Azaria gives about the
most cartoonish performance as any villain could, resulting in an
upsetting mix of interest and annoyance. On the other hand, where it is
used the CGI is incredibly high-quality (i.e. the Smurfs, Gargamel's
cat, etc.), and the special effects are designed more specifically for
3-D viewing than in most movies as of late.

I know some people have proclaimed this film to be a bastardization of
a childhood cartoon favorite, but I argue that it isn't. The film is
very aware of its origins with Peyo and respects that fact. They
actually pay direct homage to the creator towards the end of the story.
An exact imitation of the cartoon series this movie is not, but it is a
fun and well-intentioned take on the story.

The Smurfs is mildly entertaining, at its best, but it is written with
the right spirit and is in no way an injustice against the original
series. It offers a nostalgic throwback (with a modern twist) for the
adults and an amusing show for the little ones. For the ones in
between, I advise avoiding this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I am biased, as I am a super fan of smurfs, but I still want to
give my nod for this movie for three reasons: VERY GOOD 3D: At some
point, both I and my friend felt that we are really in the scene. We
never really felt this way from other 3D movies even we paid up to view
the effect. And they have made efforts even to the final credits. They
are enjoying playing around 3Ds. I enjoy it too! 

VERY TOUCHING STORY: I cannot disclose much here, but i was in my tears
towards the end of the story. Several good points about how we should
treat life, treat the people around us and treat ourselves have been
mentioned. To some extent, this movie is probably more suitable for
grown-ups who are trapped by the modern life and got lost from what
they really want.

JUST VERY SMURF: if you are like me, grown up with the company of the
SMURFs, the connection is there. They are alive now on the screen! 

Of course some parts need to be improved, so I am looking forward to
the SMURF 2 in 2013.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't have any children of my own, but I am a big child myself. Born
in the 80s and having grown up watching The Smurfs cartoon on
television I was really looking forward to seeing The Smurfs on the big
screen and for me it didn't disappoint.

This movie has got so many awful reviews but let's be honest, it was
never going to win an Oscar but it can win the hearts of people who
want to enjoy a lighthearted movie with silly giggles along the way.

The Smurfs stayed true to their cute and happy selves throughout, and
the voices of the characters were extremely well suited, especially
Jonathan Winters playing Papa Smurf and Katy Perry as Smurfette. 

I had a lot of fun watching this movie and would definitely recommend
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I am amazed that the average Mark for this film is so low. The film is
very much made in the spirit of the cartoons and the live action mixed
with cartoon special effects works really well. The key thing though is
the performance of Hank Azaria as Gargamel. He is perfectly cast, a
panto villain. I loved him. Doogie Howser is perfectly likable as is
his screen wife. It's a nice film to watch, entertaining and surely
ideal for young children. Unfairly ridiculed. It is really quite an old
fashioned children's film and it is very colourful and with a lot of
goodness. I think that maybe today's cynical world doesn't welcome
something like this but that's a shame. If you want a nice easy to
watch film for your innocent younger children then this is definitely
for you or for adults who have never lost their inner child.
