
I have a plea out on the message boards for someone to please explain
this movie to me. I love movies and I am not one of those who insist on
only being hand fed obvious characters and plots. I enjoy movies that
make you think and use symbolism. 

But I honestly did not understand this film. Im not saying its horrible
but I will say I don't think it deserves the ratings it is getting. I
personally rated it a 1 because I feel compelled to balance out the
absurd over ratings it is getting.

What I saw was two men fighting over the same two million dollars. One
who is somewhat good and obviously poor and the other who is this
maniac psycho killer. Im not even sure its his money, how he knows
about it or why he even wants it. None of that was clarified.

The good guy is running with the money the bad guy is chasing him the
sheriff seems like he is supposed to be chasing them but doesn't really
want to and would rather be some sort of hillbilly philosopher about
the whole thing.

Then the good guy suddenly dies. The bad guy escapes death by the skin
of his teeth AGAIN the money disappears and the sheriff retires but not
becoming so philosophical that the whole movie just ends right there at
his dinner table with him rambling on about some dreams he had.

Again I would love to figure out this movie.

I am a 40 year old movie buff Academy Award trivia expert I own over
700 movies I've been a member here for 6 years And I have a college
degree.

Maybe I ate too many milk duds or something but it went right over my
head.

If you are looking for a Donnie Darko, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless
Mind MUST SEE A SECOND OR THIRD TIME TO FULLY UNDERSTAND kind of movie
then go for it!

If you think you are going to see a Titanic, The Green Mile or Silence
Of the Lambs kind of movie where the plot unfolds at a normal pace and
doesn't make you search for answers and meaning then don't go see this
thing. 

Again, not a bad movie. Great acting, cinematography, pace.... the
works... just incredibly difficult to understand after the first half.

In fact the first half is very good, suspenseful.. second half does not
fulfill. Leaves you hanging and wanting more.

OK Im done. Thanks for reading.
<|_=00=_|>
If this doesn't end my year in the top two films of the year then we
are in for one hell of an awesome year of movies.

The new film from two of the best filmmakers working today No Country
For Old Men shows the talents of the Coen Brothers on top form. After a
couple of disappointments (Intolerable Cruelty had flashes of Coen
genius but felt more of a Coen imitation than the real thing;
Ladykillers had the odd funny moment but was the blandest film the
brothers ever made, and there's just no excusing Marlon Wayans!) they
knock this violent western drama out of the park.

More in the vein of their superb early mostly-serious efforts Blood
Simple and Miller's Crossing (my personal favourite of the Coen back
catalogue) No Country For Old Men is a slow-moving, character-driven
masterpiece about uncompromising and uncompromised characters. It is
very violent and bloody and not always for the squeamish.

Shot through with moments of humour these come, as in life, from real
situations and observations so don't be fooled into thinking this will
be the serious film with goofy-characters Coens of Fargo. No Country
For Old Men is a tough, gritty story.

The unrelenting pace may take its time but you are gripped every
moment. This is a thriller that genuinely thrills.

Javier Bardem gives the best performance of his career. And, yes, I
have seen The Sea Inside and he in superb in that but here he is simply
extraordinary. It is a portrayal of unrelenting evil, of true
derangement, of a human being with no shreds of humanity that ranks at
the very top of studied film psychopaths. And I say film not movie
because this is not a clichéd character. This is not a character whose
lunacy you enjoy over popcorn. This is one of the most frightening
performances ever committed to celluloid. I felt truly nervous of what
was going to happen every time he walked on screen.

Josh Brolin essentially carries the bulk of the movie and he is
excellent in a role that challenges him. I have never seen him perform
to this level and if Bardem didn't steal the film you'd be talking
about Brolin all the way home. As it is this gives him a showcase for
his talents that should see him get a lot more attention.

Tommy Lee Jones is used sparingly but to great effect. Sounding more
like Michael Parks than ever before his scenes pepper the movie with a
wearied view on a world he doesn't really like or understand to great
effect.

I did find Stephen Root a little distracting as i have never seen him
in a serious role before and he just looks amusing but he is in very
little.

Roger Deakins' cinematography is breathtaking as usual and the Coens'
script is superbly crafted. There are moments, almost asides from the
main plot, that would be superfluous in most scripts and excised in
most studio films but which work perfectly in the overall context of
the movie as only the Coens can achieve. One scene featuring Bardem in
a gas station is up there with the best scenes i have ever seen on
film.

I have not gone into the plot here because I saw this film having not
read Cormac McCarthy novel and knowing little other than the basic
log-line - a man out hunting comes upon a scene of dead bodies, guns,
drugs and money on the Mexican border and comes to the attention of
both those behind the scene and a local world-wearied sheriff - and i
think that's the way to see this film.

Go in knowing as little as you can but knowing at least this: this is a
serious, violent, slow-paced character piece from the Coens. This is
not a Fargo. If you are squeamish don't see it. If you have a
short-attention span don't see it. If you only love the Coens for their
fantastic comedies like O Brother and Big Lebowski and the
comedy/thriller Fargo don't see it. But if you want to see an
intelligent, superbly acted, powerful, beautiful cinematic treat that
will remind you of the true power of cinema see it, see it, see it.
It's a masterpiece. Bravo Ethan and Joel.
<|_=00=_|>
"No Country for Old Men" is for the kind of film fan who remarks, "Gee,
wasn't that murder a clever mise-en-scene?" and who asks, "What kind of
lens do you think they used in that strangulation shot?" The skeleton
of "No Country for Old Men" is a cheap, 78-minute, gun-monster-chase B
movie. Javier Bardem plays Anton Chigurh, the monster. He is
Frankenstein; he is Max Cady from "Cape Fear;" he is from your
childhood nightmares. He may be death personified.

One of many completely implausible scenes: an arresting officer,
defying any logic, turns his back on Chigurh. Chigurh, displaying the
supple sinuosity of a Cirque du Soleil contortionist, or an orangutan,
slips out of his handcuffs. This is done out of camera view, because
for Bardem it would be impossible; thus the scene's implausibility.
Chigurh then, in real time, strangles the young police officer to death
on camera. This is an extended sequence. This is the payoff for "No
Country for Old Men": watching one human being kill other human beings,
in scene after scene after scene, using various weapons, including a
captive bolt pistol usually used on livestock. Guess Chigurh couldn't
get hold of a Texas chainsaw. This is a slasher flick for the
pretentious.

Early on, there are well-done, if standard, chase scenes. A man outruns
a car: not believable, but fun to watch. A pit bull chases this fleeing
man down a whitewater river. The man reloads his gun at the very last
moment (of course) and shoots the pit bull dead just as it is about to
sink its teeth into the man. Later, in a hotel, a beeping transponder
informs the killer where his prey hides. Your pulse may race and you
may think that this is all leading up to something interesting. You
will be disappointed.

Tommy Lee Jones, whose ear lobes appear to be metastasizing as he ages,
wanders aimlessly through the film as Sheriff Ed Tom Bell, delivering
cornpone, homespun, cowboy poet ruminations that are more or less
opaque in meaning. No doubt the film's fans are even now feverishly
compiling a companion volume that decodes Bell's dreams and conveys
their depth.

Woody Harrelson, late the bartender of the TV sitcom "Cheers," shows up
for a completely pointless half-hour role that yanks the viewer right
out of the movie. "What is Woody Harrelson doing here?" Some years
back, some bored English majors decided that conventional narrative
structure was not intellectual enuf, and decided to play games with
narrative. "No Country for Old Men" plays these sorts of games. The
viewer is invited to invest time getting to know characters who are
eliminated from the plot in ways that convey no meaning and are not
moving. The narrative flow is truncated and yet the movie keeps going;
viewers ask themselves why the movie is continuing -- sometimes out
loud, even in a movie theater -- this is supposed to be a deep,
intellectual experience. It is not. It is merely annoying.

Other than bratty English major head games, pretty much the entire
substance of "No Country for Old Men" is a series of murders and
tortures committed by Chigurh, who may symbolize your high school's
worst bully  a bully so terrifying exactly because he targeted English
majors. His victims are often courteous; their likability makes
watching them be humiliated and then murdered an uncomfortable, and,
given the film's structure, ultimately pointless exercise. Not only are
the Coen Brothers torturing their characters, they also torment their
ticket-buying audiences.

Chigurh's nice victims are often poor, rural, Southern, whites, the
kind of people often not featured as positive, lead characters in
Hollywood entertainments. They are often villains  witness films like
"Deliverance." Here they are murder victims. Chigurh is associated with
Mexicans, part of a rising "dismal tide," as one Anglo character puts
it. No matter how you feel about immigration, you may find this
association of Mexicans with a rising tide of evil to be offensive.

The film's boosters insist that the movie offers three deep and
shocking lessons: life doesn't always follow a neat narrative
structure; evil often triumphs; and the old days were more peaceful
and, nowadays, things are getting really bad. In truth, everyone
walking in to the theater already knows the first two "lessons." No one
needs the Coen brothers to inform him that life doesn't always follow a
neat narrative structure, or that evil often triumphs. We expect
filmmakers, and all artists, to offer us a more substantial thesis. As
for the third "lesson," that the old days were more peaceful and things
are getting really bad today -- have the Coens, or Cormac McCarthy,
heard of Attila the Hun, or any number of other less-than-peaceful and
courteous personages from our common human past? One might well be
dubious about "No Country"'s "lessons." Visit internet discussion
boards devoted to this movie, and you will find fans asking, not "What
is fate?" or "What is the role of a good man in a bad world?" but
questions like, "If Hannibal Lector and Anton Chigurh were locked in a
room, who would come out alive?" Given such reflections, one is safe in
concluding that the appeal of this film is its emphasis on graphic
violence, rather than on any more advanced intellectual or artistic
merit.
<|_=00=_|>
. . . by the most overrated filmmakers ever.

"No Country for Old Men" shares with other wildly overrated movies,
like "Pulp Fiction" or "Collateral," a ludicrous setting in which
criminals engage in wild shootouts and murder sprees lasting for days
and days without any noticeable effort on the part of law enforcement
to put a stop to it. NCFOM takes place in an alternate universe where
an insane madman can travel across Texas murdering several people a day
without the slightest hint of the FBI, DEA, U.S. Marshals, Texas
Rangers, or any other authorities lifting a finger to stop him. The
only cop who seems to be on his trail is an aging small town sheriff
played by Tommy Lee Jones who doesn't actually try to catch him but
just passing amiably through life making philosophical reflections on
evil.

This movie has no interesting or sympathetic characters. Our supposed
"hero" only gets in trouble because he commits an unbelievably stupid
and selfish act -- stealing $2 million in cash from a drug deal gone
wrong in which several people have already been murdered. Does he think
no one will come after him? Then he compounds his idiocy by returning
to the scene of the crime. Why should we care what happens to him after
this beginning? He has what appears to be a very nice, likable
girlfriend, whose life (along with his own) he endangers -- for what?
Some blood/drug money that if the drug dealers don't kill him for
taking, the cops will bust him for spending. Stupid. Besides which, the
character has no backstory, no interesting qualities. He is a cipher.

The character of "Chigurh," over which all the critics are having such
orgasms, might as well be an extraterrestrial, he bears so little
relationship to actual human life. He appears to be in his late
thirties -- killing people at a rate of two or three a day, as he does
in this film, he must have murdered close to 10,000 in his adult life,
without ever being apprehended. This man is almost on a par with
Stalin, Hitler, Mao, and Pol Pot, except instead of killing people en
masse as they did (using subordinates, secret police, and soldiers to
do the dirty work), he appears to do every killing himself, many of
them with some kind of oxygen tank (how clever, and how convenient it
must be to lug around an oxygen tank to kill people with instead of,
say, a handgun). And there is no FBI team on his tail, no worldwide
manhunt to catch the biggest serial killer of all time. It's funny how
many "professional assassins" there are in movies like this (and "Pulp
Fiction" and "Collateral") and how few there seem to be in real life.

The plot of this movie is so unbelievably trite, clichéd, and hackneyed
that it is simply boring. Of course, a trite story can still make a
great movie if it is well done. But the Coen brothers are far above
actually putting in the effort to make their story work effectively on
a nuts and bolts level. For instance, why bother to show the ultimate
confrontation between the hero and villain? Why would the audience care
about that? On some level, the Coen brothers must be laughing at all
the sycophantic critics falling all over themselves to heap orgasmic
praise on this joke of a movie. This film, and its ecstatic critical
reception, represents the ultimate elevation of style over substance --
the appearance of meaning over actual meaning, quirkiness and moodiness
for its own sake rather than in the service of a genuinely engaging
story and characters.
<|_=00=_|>
No Country for Old Men is as exceptional a mix of two creative talents-
the Coen brothers, Joel and Ethan Coen, and author Cormac McCarthy
(recent winner of the Pulitzer for The Road, his own masterpiece) as
one could imagine, as they converge on a story that in lessor hands
would be just a B movie. The story concerns an average Joe out hunting
one day in Texas who comes across a bunch of dead bodies, heroin, and a
satchel with 2 million in cash. He takes it, but without knowing that a
true embodiment of a psychopath (Javier Bardem) is on his trail, and as
he evades him it becomes more and more clear the fatalism that lies in
store, as a weathered sheriff (Tommy Lee Jones) is also on the trail
with perpetulally sad eyes looking on from his stolid demeanor. 

More than this, it's also about as good a morality play as one could
ask for, because it plays and tools and makes very serious questions
about what is moral, or what isn't, or what is so ambiguous that it's
all up to the toss of a coin or a chance ride out of town. There are a
few interpretations to Bardem's character Anton that could be taken,
but one thing is certain- he's less a symbol than a real presence, a
"ghost" as Jones's sheriff calls him that can come around at the drop
of a pin, usually in the dark, and strike the utmost fear (or confusion
if you're a clerk) in the hearts of men and women. You'll never look at
a coin toss the same way again. Or an air-gun. Or fixing a bullet wound
in a leg. Or a hunt at a motel. Or even the aftermath of a car crash.

But at the same time it's the purest time of cinema, recalling
Hitchcock and Leone and Welles's Touch of Evil and the best of noir and
westerns. There are so many exceptional shots and lighting, so much
depth to the perception of the characters through the mis-en-scene, so
much tension, that through this it's all up to the actors to make or
break the near-perfection that is the McCarthy source. Bardem embodies
Anton like no other could- you can't look at his eyes, often steel-cold
and horrifically professional (to what professional who can say), which
occasional tear- and it's obviously worthy of an Oscar. And Josh Brolin
and Tommy Lee Jones are also fantastic; we see Brolin often in the
midst of an action scene, a moment of 'save-your-life' going on, and
one can finally see an actor of his caliber completely breaking out in
a role that doesn't require him to ever totally "emote". Jones, on the
other hand, gives a compassionate turn in a film that's about the
struggles of desperate men in a land without law and order. He's gone
through so much that it comes out completely in his voice and eyes,
sorrowful but holding back, and he reaches a level of connection with
the character that makes the Fugitive look like simpleton TV. Kelly
McDonald, who plays Lleland's wife, is also excellent when called upon,
especially in a crucial scene later in the film.

It's gut-wrenching, bleak, violent, super-tense (I clenched many a
knuckle during some scenes), surprisingly funny in a darkly comic
manner not seen by the Coens in many years, and artistically fashioned
to a beat that is meditative (watch the opening moments with Jones's
voice-over), simple, and doomed. It's beautiful and terribly tragic,
for McCarthy fans it finally strikes at what is truest to his material-
even if you haven't read the book itself the Road will give an
indication of the mood and atmosphere at hand- and at the moment I
can't think of any other film that would be the best pick of the year-
maybe one of the best films I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I say spoilers but with no plot, a loose story line, random
characters, no resolution to story line, saying this review contains
spoilers is a compliment I don't want to give this movie. 

When I went to see this movie I did not know, believe it or not, it was
a Coen Brothers film. However after the first scene and the visual of
the boot marks all over the floor and I guessed that it was. It left me
with the same feeling of the blood stains from the wood chipper in the
snow from Fargo.

Not the same imagery, mind you, but the same sense of feeling. A sense
of something violent and chaotic happened looked at from an obtuse
albeit familiar image with contrasting colors of something that
shouldn't be there.

Next the dialog came about and I knew for sure. 

This movie is just plain misguided. When directors start to be
identified by their techniques they are losing the plot and forgetting
what film making is all about. To tell a story and to express ideas,
not to showcase their quirks and be identified by them. 

They should be in the background and not center stage.

The Coens, granted in my opinion only, took a step towards the over
indulgent David Lynch and a giant leap away from becoming great
directors based on their earlier works. The genius of Raising Arizona
or Joel's The Hudsucker Proxy is a distant rock of film work casting a
giant shadow on this current piece.

So many are saying that Javier Bardem's morbid and "deep" character is
the real gem of the movie and brings originality to a type of role
never seen before. Hell, take a look at another Tommy lee film, Batman
where he played Two Face. The quirky and annoying Anton Chigurh is
simply Two Face in an adult movie and like any bad guy, should not have
gotten away.

Then there are the random characters being introduced in the movie for
no apparent reason. I mean, just what was Woody Harrelson's character
in the movie for? Seriously, without dipping into film school hogwash
about stereotypes and archetypes of moral choices and bit characters to
drive a moral choice. Or the old guy in the wheel chair towards the
end? 

By that time I was just rolling my eyes and getting more confused and
upset that I was actually trying to make sense of this non-sequitur
story line.

Then it hit me. 

There was no point. There was no reason for this movie at all. It is
just one long Coen self back patting cinematic journey and a movie to
praise their own, self recognized, film making skills. What Blazing
Saddles was to westerns this movie is to their previous works. It is
quite ironic, and knowing the Coens deliberate, that it ends with Tommy
Lee speaking of dreams. You know that feeling, the sense when you first
wake up from a weird dream but in your half asleep mind set the fact
that a pink dog was playing Tchaikovsky on the piano while sipping a
martini and explaining why hot dogs come in 10 packs while buns come in
8 somehow can relate to your entire life plan and future goals. 

As you regain your senses and become fully awake you realize that it
was only a dream and sometimes a cake is just a cake.

Directors should not take center stage and simply let their films speak
for them. This movie only speaks about the directors. Those that say
this film is genius are still half asleep. When they wake up they also
will admit they were stupefied by the Coens and didn't dare to question
their "talent". 

Well, I am begging you to indeed question it and see this movie for
what it really is: Self indulgent nonsense.

Bottom line is that No country for Old Men (even the title is
ridiculous and misleading) is a film one can easily skip. When someone
comes out and tells you about this film and how great it is, watch them
start talking about the Coens and their amazing talent. For if any
other director made this heap of trash you would be renting this
directly off the shelves as it would never have made the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
Days after seeing it, I am still haunted by No Country for Old Men.
There is just something so effectual and uncompromising about it, that
mere words will only begin to skim the surface of the cinematic
excellence on display.

At its most simplistic, the film is a game of cat and mouse. The mouse
here is Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), a hunter who stumbles upon two
million in cash after a drug deal gone wrong, and takes it thinking
nothing of it. He tries to cover his tracks, but ends up letting the
group looking for the money, figure out his identity. The cat is Anton
Chigurh (Javier Bardem), a hit-man hired to find Moss and the money.
But Chigurh is unconventional at best; he also happens to be bordering
on mentally insane. And another man, a law man this time, Sheriff Bell
(Tommy Lee Jones), is on the trail of both men as they criss-cross
around Texas.

Right up until its dénouement, the film is simply brilliant. Taut and
thrilling, it blows right through the majority of its two hour runtime
with ease. Even during moments of slowing down, the film stays right on
track and never feels like it has run its course. It engages even when
it appears that nothing is happening. The Coen Brothers truly crafted
what appears at first glance to be a masterpiece, even if it is their
first real shot at something that is not indelibly and inarguably their
own. Even without reading Cormac McCarthy's novel, I know that the
Coens have done it justice, even with their bitterly twisted and dark
sense of humour scattered throughout the film.

But all of that comes to a standstill as the film concludes. The last
twenty or so minutes feel like hours as the film wraps itself up, and
it almost feels like these scenes belong to another movie entirely (one
that borders on being pretentious and monotonous). I realize now that
McCarthy's novel probably ends the same way, but it does not help
provide closure to the fact that the movie is so break-neck paced right
up until this happens. Its brilliance is shattered by what looks to be
a series of tattered events thrown together to provide closure for all
of the characters, alive or dead, and for its audience. It speaks
volumes to the film's title, but it just does not feel satisfying
compared to the rest of what we saw. Even with its enigmatic devices at
play, I still cannot come to terms with how the film closes. It does
haunt, and in a way, it may prove to be a significantly stronger ending
as time rolls on. But as it stands now, it just feels weak.

What is also a bit of a surprise, and only seems to appear as the film
concludes, is the music. It is not so obvious at first, but the
majority of the film is audibly shown with just the sounds the
characters make and no background music to speak of. This element is
brilliantly used, as it helps intensify every situation and makes the
film downright terrifying in some cases. It just helps truly make the
film come together, and only helps establish the quick pacing even more
so. It was definitely a surprise, and one that will probably help the
lasting impact of the film become even stronger.

The lush and bloodsoaked visuals also help to define the film. Despite
the film taking place mainly in deserted areas, or the desert itself,
the camera manages to capture just the right essence of what the
writing and acting is conveying. The isolation and the terror almost
become characters themselves through these visuals, and are sure to be
recognized as the award season rolls in.

The film's acting is also very well done. Brolin anchors the film and
even when it is just the audience reacting to his attempts at saving
his life, he manages to deliver the best performance of his career. He
breathes life into Moss, and truly brings a sense of pathos to the
character. We feel for him and his greedy mistake, and as he develops
into a man unwilling to go down without a fight, he only manages to up
the ante for himself countlessly. Jones, as the law man stuck on the
fringe of every event, also does very well for himself. Most of his
work is simply delivering dialogue, but it is delivered in such a
fashionable sense that you feel like he is speaking to the bigger
picture of things, and not just himself. I would have liked a bit more
development in his character, but what little there is helps his
performance greatly.

Supporting turns from Woody Harrelson and Kelly Macdonald are also done
well, but are overshadowed by the main cast by both Brolin and Jones.

And even more of an overcast is Bardem as the ruthless Chigurh. He
absolutely nails this character down to his very bones. If anyone is
merely toying with the idea of seeing the film, it should be
specifically for Bardem. His performance is calculating and plagued
with petrifying silence. When he chooses to talk, his words sound like
they are being given by the essence of evil. This is a man with a plan,
but it is one that only belongs to him. His enigmatic presence is
developed throughout the film, and never once does it feel particularly
appropriate to understand where this menace comes from. Watching him on
screen is a jolt to the heart, and will go down as one of the best
performances of the decade. His terrible hair only helps to make his
character that more scary and formidable.

No Country for Old Men is one of the best pictures of the year, even if
it is flawed. Its brilliance and lasting impact with leave you haunted.

8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
There's very little "good" in No Country for Old Men beyond the
mesmerizing acting and viciously dark screenplay. Instead, the unholy
trinity of temptation, cynicism and pure, dark, evil take center stage
in this modern western directed by brothers Joel and Ethan Coen.

Based on the 2003 novel by Cormac McCarthy, the movie unfolds in the
dusty Texas borderlands as hunter Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) stumbles
upon the remnants of a desert drug deal gone bad, complete with a case
containing two million dollars. Succumbing to temptation, Moss makes
off with the money setting in motion a chain of events that leaves a
trail of blood spattered carnage across the State as he is pursued by
the ruthless, coin tossing hit man Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) among
whose killing weapons of choice is a pneumatic air gun.

Bearing little in common with pretty much any previous Coen film with
the possible exception of Blood Simple, No Country for Old Men is a
dark, bleak, ode to the baser elements of the human soul, and a spit in
the eye to the noble ones as well.

With a structural trademark hinging upon breaking the conventional
norms of predictability, No Country is a movie that will unsettle you
at successive turns - in the way deaths are dealt out; by its palpable
tension that can almost be cut with a knife, and its periodic
deviations from the narrative norm  the latter likely the only Coen
brothers "quirk" for which their movies are renown.

Switching back and forth between the game of cat and mouse being played
out by Moss and Chigurh and the investigation of unfolding events by
cynical aging Texas Sheriff Ed Bell (Tommy Lee Jones), the Coens weave
a web of dangled threads that one can't help but expect will be neatly
tied together at story's end, only to tie them up in ways that buck the
storytelling norm and manage to be both unsatisfying and true to their
nature at the same time.

Unforgettable among this tableau is Bardem's Chigurh. The Spanish actor
who has also appeared in Love in the Time of Cholera and Goya's Ghosts
evokes the most amazing presence of a ruthless killer with his own
twisted adherence to a bizarre code of ethics that nothing short of
witnessing his performance can do it justice.

Sadly, however, justice is one of the few items in abundance in this
movie. And yet, as unhappy as I am that the Coen's screenplay defiantly
refuses to cater to the audience's inherent desire for satisfaction, I
grudgingly have to admire them for opting for the unpredictable.

Consider the movie akin to one big coin toss  will it be heads or
tales? Call it - you've been calling it your entire life.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like films that literally take your breath away, then this goes
to the top of the list.

As stated elsewhere, Javier Bardem is so spectacularly evil and
menacing that, if I were Mrs Bardem, I'd be worried about him coming
home at night. The man exuded controlled evil, and I found myself not
breathing when he came onto screen, yet couldn't take my eyes from him
- a truly mesmerising presence.

Tommy Lee Jones turns in a belter of a performance, and mention should
also be made of Kelly MacDonald who nails a faultless Texan accent
alongside a multi-layered performance (despite the paucity of her
screen time).

Beautifully shot, as you would expect, and with some (welcome) moments
of humour amongst the gore, this is a very very fine film. Miss it at
your peril, because when those little golden men are being handed out
next year in LA, I predict a lot of them will be going to this film. A
belter.
<|_=00=_|>
My vote of awful may be a little exaggerated, but I can tell you when
this film ended, the audience literally groaned. The story is about
some guy who we don't know happening upon a drug deal that went
horribly wrong then finding $2 million in cash and taking it.

This guy who we find out is called Lewellen (I don't know how to spell
it sorry), suddenly grows a conscience and decide to help a dying drug
dealer by bringing back water, almost getting himself killed in the
process. I honestly as I watched, did not understand why he went back,
it was only after we left that my wife explained that he went to take
that water to that poor drug dealer.

Next we meet our bad guy, a man who has been arrested, escapes and can
continue to kill literally dozens of people, even having shoot outs in
hotels and main streets, without anyone either caring or phoning the
police. This sort of thing must be perfectly normal in Texas, because
at one point you have one guy firing a shotgun on the street and no one
could care less, let alone phone the police.

There's the Sheriff, who's "trying" to help the "good guy", but
couldn't really care. I mean wtf was he doing all day apart from lazing
about reading the paper. Apart from anything else he's got a psycho
running lose and like 10 dead Mexicans as well as two dead police
officers. You'd think he'd be quite busy, but he's really not.

Anyway our bad guy is hunting the thief for the money, and then in
steps Woody Harrelson who you assume is going to save the day, but gets
shot within five minutes. Honestly even after he was shot I thought he
was faking it and would come back and help our "hero", I honestly
couldn't believe it. Then they have both hero and wife murdered off
camera, and again you honestly cannot believe that it happened.

The worst thing of all though is the ending, you keep thinking that the
bad guy will get caught, but no he gets away, after killing like 1
million people, and the film closes with our Sheriff who's done jack
anyway talking about some dreams he had. I was literally astounded by
this film, it started off well, but just when you were waiting for
something to happen, like a showdown between psycho and thief, nothing
happened. If you want to waste your money go watch this, otherwise pick
something else.
