
As a husband who has a wife battling for her life with recurrent
ovarian cancer, this movie struck very close to home. We a both in our
late 20's and I am facing the possibility of burying my wife far to
young, so suffice to say we both went to the movie and had a hard time
keeping the eyes dry. There is nothing worse then prospect or actuality
of burying your lover and your friend. I know this movie got a lot of
negative reviews but when you see your life mirrored on the big screen
you can't help but be moved by her struggle to move on and his undying
love for her. I see another reviewer said to keep the
boyfriends/husbands home, these people obviously have not faced such
tragic circumstances. Usually I'd be the first to tear apart a click
flick, but this didn't feel as cliché as most and I liked how the
ending wasn't as predictable as click flick movies usually are.
<|_=00=_|>
In a poignant scene Gerald Butler's spirit of Gerry confesses to Hilary
Swank's Holly, "I'm not asking you to remember me" and to move on.
Although being a little too long, Writer and Director Richard
LaGravenese's "P.S. I Love You" is a whimsical and surprisingly
touching romantic comedy about life continuing forward. Swank and
LaGravenese have collaborated before on "Freedom Writers" as evidenced
in the movie's comfortable and sturdy feel. Hilary Swank is great in
this romantic comedy, an edgy departure for the actor. Swank
thrives--she never forces the humor, completely natural. She embodies a
humanity and spirit in Holly that makes her vulnerable and funny in the
story's context. Gerald Bulter is boldly charming as Holly's late
husband Gerry, the Irishman full of life and dreams. Swank and Butler
have a wondrous chemistry that smooths out the rougher edges of
LaGravenese and Steve Rogers screenplay based on the novel by Wendy
Finerman.

Even with its over wrought indulgences, "P.S. I Love You" rewards the
narrative payoff. Wisely on the part of LaGravenese and Rogers, the
catharsis opts for the lyrical and realm of possibility. The
performances are stellar. Academy Award Winner Kathy Bates is awesome
as Holly's mother Patricia. Seeing fellow Oscar Winner Swank and Bates
together is truly something special. There is a heartbreaking scene
where Swank's Holly breaks down to her mother saying, "I'm alone!"
Later Bates's Patrica says to her daughter, "If you're all alone,
we're all together with you in that, too." So even with its intentional
quirks and cheesy trappings-- all is forgiven, because ultimately "P.S.
I Love You" is about the courage to love again and live life.

As "P.S" opens Holly is furious that Gerry told her mother at dinner
that they are not planning on having kids right now. Although accurate,
Holly is still livid. Holly laments that she is waiting for her life to
start. Gerry reminds, "We are in life" Transparent to us: Gerry and
Holly are soul matesthe great love of each other's life. Fast forward
several months, Gerry has died of a brain tumor. After the wake, Holly
discovers that Gerry has arranged for the delivery of his letters all
making requests of Holly. Unable or perhaps unwilling to move on after
her loss, this may not be the best thing for Holly. Or is it a way for
Holly to discover life anew? 

Much of the movie's charm derives from Holly's trip to Gerry's Irish
homeland, and her loyal friends. Lisa Kudrow plays Denise, Holly's gal
pal who is crassly determined to hunt down a single, straight, and
employed mana crusade seemingly more difficult than it seems. Kudrow
is at her scattered and hysterical best. Hot and sexy Gina Gershon
plays other gal pal Sharon. Gershon is deceivingly strong and smart
with the apparently vapid Sharon, who really possesses a depth of
character. In a surprising moment in what initially feels like a
frivolously long fishing scene with all three women, reminds Holly that
her friends are moving on with their lives. Holly's trip to Ireland is
a beautiful interlude that represents an eloquent return to the
traditional and solid. Here LaGravenese brilliantly orchestrates his
story of love everlasting and regret. Hilary Swank amazingly balances
the suffering and resolute spirit in Holly. She too is brilliant and
absolutely beautiful. Her smile just lights up your soul, and her
anguish strikes an emotional chord. Gerald Butler is at his charismatic
best. Butler also expertly tempers his charm with a touching and gentle
compassion.

"P.S. I Love You" is one of the best romantic comedies in a long while,
that has a great love story. Richard LaGravenese tells a wistful and
touching tale with amazing performances and chemistry by Hilary Swank
and Gerald Butler. Take a chance on "P.S. I Love You".
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie on a girls-night-out to the movies, and we chose it on
the basis of the previews, which had billed it as a romantic comedy.
Wow, were they ever wrong! The basic plot is this: Woman loses husband
far too early and tragically. Woman grieves for husband, hard. Husband,
through a plan pre-arranged before his death, sends woman letters at
set intervals, each one causing a fresh stream of tears to fall.

The acting was great. Hillary Swank was particularly good in her role,
and let us see her vulnerability and conflicting emotions. The
supporting cast was all excellent, and ladies, there is more than
enough male eye candy in this movie to go around.

But - and I strongly warn all of you considering this as a light comedy
or a date movie - it's sad. Very very sad. Even the happy parts are
sad. If you go see this, wear waterproof mascara and bring lots of
tissues. Don't say I didn't warn you.
<|_=00=_|>
My most favorite romantic chick flick the last two years!! What makes
this movie so great is if you have no expectation. Because of reviews
and not thinking Hilary Swank could pull off romantic made this movie
shine. She pulls it off and the movie is way better than the reviews.
Tear Jerker! The shining happy moments are definitely the comedy relief
Harry Connick Jr. brings. He is good in this movie... sexy... charming
and hilarious. This movie has a great ending and just is so beautiful.
I read half the book and wow, the movie makes the book look bad. The
movie is better than the book!

Now I love seeing girly movies, mostly they have disappointed me or
been just okay. This one was better than all the rest.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Holly (Hilary Swank) has been married nine years to a wild
Irishman, Gerry Kennedy (Gerard Butler), and her one true love.
Unfortunately for Holly, Gerry is diagnosed with a terminal brain
tumor. Knowing he only has a short time to live; Gerry writes Holly a
series of letters that will guide her through her grief. The first
message arrives on Holly's 30th birthday. Gerry has sent her a birthday
cake and a tape recording explaining the letters that she will be
getting in the mail. Over the next year, Gerry wants Holly to follow
the orders in his letters by going on new adventures and to celebrate
life by finding herself. Holly's best friends, Denise (Lisa Kudrow) and
Sharon (Gina Gershon), accompany her on her journey. Gerry always signs
off each letter with "P.S. I Love You." 

(My Comment) This is definitely a chick flick that will not only make
you cry, but make you laugh, plus the women will fall in love with
Gerard Butler. Gerard was excellent in his part and Hilary did a fine
job as well. At first I didn't think Hilary could pull off the romantic
comedy role, but in the end you get use to her doing it. Hilary
actually makes you feel her pain and how devastated she was when her
husband died. I guarantee you that you will tear up during several
scenes. Overall it was an enjoyable chick flick that you can take a
date. (Warner Bros. Pictures, Run Time 2:06, Rated PG-13) (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to get advance screening tickets to go see this
movie. I loved it! It is very funny and very romantic. It stars Hilary
Swank and Gerard Butler (that gorgeous hunk of man who starred in 300,
if you haven't seen it--go rent it).

At the start of the movie, Holly (Hilary Swank) and Gerry Kennedy
(Gerard Butler) are married and they are having a marital spat, which,
trust me, is hilarious. Let's just say they end the fight with him
doing a very funny striptease. In the next scene, we find that he has
died. Holly is so bereaved she is unable to function but soon letters
start arriving--from Gerry. He spaces the letters about a month apart
and in each letter he teaches Holly how to get on with the business of
living.

Her ensuing adventures with best friends, Lisa Kudrow and Lisa Gershon
are hilarious. Along the way, she meets Harry Connick, Jr. and Jeffrey
Dean Morgan (who played Denny in Grey's Anatomy). The supporting cast
is wonderful (especially the hilarious Lisa Kudrow). The movie is very
funny, much more funny than sad. And Gerard Butler is quite terrific in
it (and I am not just saying that because I am a fan). He is romantic,
sexy, and just plain sweet. The striptease scene alone is worth the
price of admission. I never laughed so hard.

Hilary Swank is very, very good. She and Gerry have really great
chemistry. In the scenes they have together, you totally see how much
in love they are with each other and why Holly is so bereaved when he
dies. Although the movie does stray from the book at times, in my
opinion it's an improvement. For example, Gerard Butler is not only in
the first 10 minutes or so of the movie, but he is also in it quite a
bit through flashbacks and such. Plus you get to hear him sing (which
he has not done in a movie since "The Phantom of the Opera").

So if you get a chance this holiday season, go see this wonderful
romantic, funny movie. You will love it! Amy V.
<|_=00=_|>
People change in time, relationships change in time; Love doesn't. A
man expresses his feelings of his love to his wife, through several
shocking surprises after his death. This movie would tell why love is
the only power that connects people, if no one could tell anymore what
it really means. Gerry and Holly's relationship is a good example of
how couples bring their love to the end quickly. 

Leading actors Swank and Butler accomplished wholeheartedly acting
jobs. A true success with Harry Connick Jr.'s role playing Holly's
first flirt, but poor acting from Jeffrey Dean Morgan(whom we'll see
him in "Watchmen" next year) playing as her second. As a novel
adaptation, the screenplay is effectual. Some parts of the script is
totally noticeable that hold our attention continuously. I liked the
editing job very well after I've seen the deleted scenes from the
special features of the DVD. The music score is so relaxing and
emotional. Everybody keeps telling this film is a tearjerker, which I
disagree; it's only because of the sensational existence of Hilary
Swank. Her talented way of expressing psychological trauma just catches
eyes, that's all. 

There are 5 of my favorite scenes which I rewind each time I watch:
1*One of the greatest opening scenes for a romance of all time. In that
scene just in 2 minutes, we get what type of personalities each
character has. Lovers find a quarrel over a straw. They yell at each
other, and Gerry leaves Holly getting out of the door. A minute passes
or not, Holly comes back from bathroom and Gerry back from the door.
Then they wildly lock in a close embrace after running towards to each
other into the middle of the living room... 2*After the funeral of
Gerry, at a time when Holly's longing of him hits the top, she can't
help herself calling the home-phone from her cellphone just to listen
to Gerry's voice from his answering machine record; while trying to
sleep... 3*Holly's receiving of Gerry's first P.S.I Love You letter and
his true guesses of what Holly is going to say in respond after his
each time of gaffes... 4*Gerry's calling to memory of their first
meeting in Ireland, from his words... 5*And best of all, my best
favorite scene: Holly's return to karaoke stage singing "Love You Till
The End" and imagining as if he is there forming a lonesome audience.
This scene is the one I burst into tears. I don't remember myself
crying because of a movie, or because of someone else's sadness ever;
including the end of Dr.Zhivago or Love Story or The English Patient.
Yet it just reminded me of a photo of my fiancée with whom we were
parted away. In that photo she was standing on a step of an
amphitheater watching my mockery of a stand-up show at the stage,
forming the whole audience herself. 

This is a therapeutic relationship movie. Watch it with your partner
and you'll be able to see the missing, lacking or the incomplete part
of your unity. Strongly recommended for couples who used to be in love
before. Find out why love is eternal.
<|_=00=_|>
Generally speaking, I dislike the romantic American tearjerker dramas
especially films like 'Titanic'. So i tend to avoid them. A few that I
have liked include 'Far and Away' and 'The English Patient' (which was
much more than the average movie of this genre). What interested me
about 'P.S. I Love You' was the interesting ensemble cast. Now that I
have watched the film, I must say that it came as a pleasant surprise.

I found it very fresh: the cast which brings together talents like Lisa
Kudrow, Kathy Bates and Hilary Swank; the idea of shooting in Ireland
was very refreshing and the beautiful locations were so wonderfully
shot that it just makes one want to visit the beautiful country; the
screenplay, yes it is flawed as there are a few corny moments and some
of the situations are a little too convenient but most of the dialogues
are great, the comedic undertone is mostly welcoming and not misplaced,
the ending is different from what one would expect; the soundtrack
which adds more life into the moments.

It's ironic that just the other day I watched 'Reign Over Me' which
also dealt with 'grieving over' lost loved ones. Both films were
totally different but it was interesting to see how the central
character of both films deal, or more correctly, fail to cope with
their losses in different ways. Both the writer and director
LaGravenese put a lot of heart into 'P.S. I Love You' and the film is
strengthened by the chemistry of the actors.

Both Hilary Swank and Gerard Butler are excellent. The chemistry
between them is electric. Swank gracefully shows Holly's transition
from the whiny but loving working wife to the lonely widow. In a
flashback scenes we see her brilliantly pull off the naive teenager.
It's no surprise that the woman can act. Butler is terrific as the
charming, lively and funny Gerry but his grasp of the Irish accent is
disastrous. Lisa Kudrow provides comic relief. The actress gives a
natural performance with shades of her famous Phoebe Buffay character
(which I didn't mind as I miss Phoebe) but I wish she was given more
screen time. Even Gina Gershon springs a surprise with a decent
performance. Kathy Bates's acting is beautifully restrained. Harry
Connick Jr. too adds some comedy (which might not appeal to all).

'P.S. I Love You' makes for a good rainy day film. It might not appeal
to all as there are a few fluffy corny moments but the film does make
its point well and for me it was worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so glad I went against the many negative reviews of this movie...
because it was fantastic! It has stuck with me in the several hours
since I've seen it. Claims that Hilary Swank and Gerard Butler have no
chemistry just are not true- the characters are different, and they
clash at times, but this shouldn't be misconstrued. One can definitely
see the love they have for each other, though the ways they express it
are very different. Never has a movie pushed me to the brink of tears
so many times! Sure, in Titanic we all (or was it just me...?) cried
when we realized Leo's character had died, but P.S. I Love You brings
that feeling several times over. It is so relatable- how would we act
if we were completely grief-stricken with nothing to comfort us? I love
this movie- both my friend that saw it with me and myself fully intend
on buying it on DVD when it is released. Highly recommended. Don't
forget Kleenex! *Kudos to Kudrow who is freaking hilarious!*
<|_=00=_|>
Okey ladies i went to see P.S. I Love You last night with a girl friend
now that we are both back in the OC for winter break. I have to say
this movie is all i hoped it would be and more. I sobbed for a whole 2
hours, not kidding. It was sad yet uplifting and made me really think
about life.

I'm 19 and a freshman in college, i went to an all girl's catholic high
school. So personally this movie really hit home, and made me think
"What if i don't ever find my Gerry?" I mean I'm 19 and I've never been
kissed or been on a date. It just got me thinking about the fact that
life is short and i want to be happy. I want my Gerry (obviously he
doesn't have too be this romantic) but someone to love me with their
whole heart as Gerry loved Holly. It also gave me some hope, maybe
there is a Gerry out there for everyone. My friend and i went to
chili's for dinner after and i pretty much cried through dinner but
like i said this movie really hit me.

It was absolutely perfect and even the scenes that our Gerry wasn't in,
his presence could be seen and felt every step of the way. All i can
say is that GB has moved me in a way i never thought possible with a
movie. I think this one has actually changed my life for the better or
at least pushed me in the right direction.

Even after seeing JDM nekkid bum i must say our man still wins my
heart. His voice is so amazing, and many times that all there was in a
scene, just his voice yet it had me busting out into tears every time.
I am still letting this amazing experience sink in but all i can say
is, if i ever could say one thing to our Gerry, it would be that, he
has truly made me love my life and hope that the love of my life is out
there somewhere.

Oh, and Gerry's singing is amazing too, as are all his witty remarks
and comments.... i can still hear his voice in my head! Erinne P.S. I
Love You.... Till The End
