
Steve Carell reprises his role as Evan Baxter in this sequel to Bruce
Almighty.

Evan Almighty jumps right into the mix of things with little build up.
Right off the bat we find out that news anchor Evan Baxter has segued
his career into one of political aspirations. Soon after being elected
to the United States Congress under a slogan painting him as a
politician out to change the world, God (Morgan Freeman) commissions
Baxter to build an ark in the midst of one of the worst droughts in the
history of the area.

In a predictable move the area townspeople antagonize Baxter as he
begins the construction of the ark. Baxter's reputation is further
soiled by the fact that his political career is being looked as a joke
when he starts wearing sack cloth on a regular basis, and animals of
all kinds are following him around in pairs. Baxter's boss Congressman
Long, who once supported him quickly, becomes the antagonist as the
people begin to turn against Baxter.

Evan Almighty is predictable on every turn, and has enough humor to
satisfy. The animals do their part to provide a fair share of fecal
humor. Morgan Freeman offers up plenty of wisdom in the role of God.
Steve Carell does an exceptionally adequate job of delivering very
humorous dialogue, which in his style is sure to be adlibbed in great
part. The sheer amounts of animals in this film are overwhelming and a
treat to behold. Overall the storyline and humor feel very clich√©. Evan
Almighty was a mild success, but just does not offer anything special
apart from a few good laughs. Parents with children will get their
money's worth out of this, but for everyone else it is a worthwhile
rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Carell returns as prissy newsreader Evan Baxter, a little less
mean-spirited this time around unlike his previous small turn in 'Bruce
Almighty'. Of course, Carell was up and coming then but as his
box-office success shows, the character responsible for arguably the
only really funny scene in 'Bruce Almighty' deserves a film of his own.
Shadayac and co. have approached it with a novel (if potentially
expensive idea) to make God (Morgan Freeman) appear this time to
instruct Baxter to build an Arc and, as Noah did before him, load it
full of animals to protect them from an for an oncoming flood. It's an
idea that's very entertaining, even if the jokes are less easy than the
previous premise. Evan's transformation of appearance and being pursued
by eager animals are the main areas of humour here, which means at
times the film is thin on the ground. Sentiment comes in the form of
Evan's neglect of his family; the audience will know exactly where this
will be going, but fortunately the sentiment isn't as annoying as you
might believe. It's also very much a family affair, the humour and the
language very much for family audiences. Disappointingly, Shadayac,
responsible for bringing out two of Jim Carrey's worst performances
(namely 'Liar Liar' and 'Bruce Almighty') by letting Carrey overdo it
by seemingly telling him to do the whole thing as an impression of
William Shatner, mistakenly this time opts to take Carell down a notch.
Carell's trademark hysteria and bizarre reactions are in short supply
and we have an all together calmer 'Little Miss Sunshine'-esquire turn,
which also means the film loses some of it's potential in this
instance. Wanda Sykes and co. are merely stock characters needing
better dialogue. Does this make it a bad film? Not at all. It's
religious tie-ins (if rushed) are quite smart and it's very well
directed visually with a great use of music and keeping a steady pace.
It is what's on the label, but with a jaw-droppingly impressive final
act which will really take you by surprise and could be up there as one
of the sights of the summer! You could do a lot worse than enjoy 100
minutes of easy-going fun but if it's a laugh-out-loud roller-coaster
you want, you will leave short-changed!
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't seen Bruce Almighty. Unlike just about everyone else who went
to this movie I had nothing to compare it with and no expectations
based on the earlier movie.

I have a feeling what people were expecting was a frenetic, high
strung, giddy, laugh a nano-second experience. If that is what you are
expecting, then you will be disappointed.

What I was expecting was based on what I saw in the trailers for this
movie - ordinary guy is visited by God, God tells him to build an Ark,
the guy's beard and hair grow and animals show up. I was also expecting
some funny stuff.

The film delivers on story, on character, on relationships. It has an
element of menace and anticipation. It has funny stuff and it has
heart. It is also a movie you can take your kids to, which is kind of
rare these days.

I really enjoyed this movie. Set aside your Jim Carrey expectations and
you may enjoy it, too.
<|_=00=_|>
Did some one say comedy... this cannot be categorized as a pure comedy
and it doesn't come under the cadre of Bruce Almighty and Steve Carell
though he tried hard is not match to Jim Carrey. This is not a pure
comedy and has its own emotional scenes to counter your comic feelings
while watching the movie..... Buy your popcorn and drink before you go
to the movie and don't expect to have a pain in your gut because you
don't do any big laughing exercise in it. Still it has kept with its
pace, being a smaller movie of less than 100 minutes adds to its
advantage.

It has a good script and quite a happy feeling at the end of the
movie... It is good to see these kind of movies as a family outing and
feel good when you see your family members smiling after the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
'A comedy of biblical proportions!' Those masters of hyperbole, the
movie-tag-line-writers, at it again; the sequel to 2003's Bruce
Almighty, raises barely a chuckle. The only thing which raises my
interest in this movie above total indifference is its dogmatic
Christian undertones. Sorry, make that overtones.

Steve Carrel, ignoring Jim Carrey's good sense to decline a role
reprisal, plays Evan Baxter, the smug news anchor from Bruce Almighty,
who has just been elected to congress. With a new life in Virginia and
the stress of moving into a house the size of the Acropolis, the
pressure of all the change takes its toll on his family. His wife
(Lauren Graham), evidently airlifted in from Stepford, and three sons
(Jimmy Bennett, Graham Phillips and Johnny Simmons), who do a stilted
job of looking sad to a piano accompaniment, pray for the family to
become closer, and almost out of guilt, so does Evan.

In what must be the greatest shock of all time, God (Morgan Freeman)
actually shows up, but does the whole pesky 'working in mysterious
ways' thing all over the place by telling Evan to build a Noah-esquire
ark in preparation for a great flood instead of just giving him a pool
table or and X-box or something. And in true mischievous deity style,
he also forces Evan to grow a beard, long hair and wear worn and tatty
robes. Now, back in the day I'm sure razors were hard to come by so the
beard was somewhat of an inevitability for Noah, but I'm almost certain
it had nothing to do with spirituality. Same with the robes; a massive
construction job is surely made all the more difficult by such
impractical clothing. Couldn't God have conjured up a pair of steel
toed boots and a hard hat for the poor guy? Apparently not.

To paraphrase Bill Hicks, I find the idea that God is messing with us
somewhat unsettling, and so does Evan who fights him every step of the
way. And who wouldn't? God essentially gets him fired, drives away his
loved ones, makes him a laughing stock and at one point actually
threatens him. Of course God turns out to be right, and the rational,
hard working family man who was getting on fine by himself is forced to
eat a large slice of bittersweet humble pie. It's almost as if to be
left alone by God, Evan had to tolerate and humour him. What kind of
message is that? 

Evan Almighty does have a highly commendable environmental slant, with
the underlying theme being that the Federal Government is blind to the
damage being done to the world around us. It is also the first film
ever to offset its carbon emissions and this should surely be
considered a landmark achievement by a Hollywood studio. Were it not
for the trite, condescending banner of American Christianity flying
high above it, Evan Almighty could have been an inoffensive family
movie, with a praiseworthy environmental record. But with its confused
religious dogma and relentless 'blind faith' message, it ranks as one
of the most repugnant movies of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
If you go expecting to see a gut-busting laugh-out-loud comedy like the
usual Jim Carrey-Tom Shayac production, you'll be disappointed. (But it
also doesn't have the bathroom humor -- a relief to me.) 

But INSTEAD I suggest you think back to those great religious epics of
the 1950s -- but with many light-hearted moments (instead of the heavy
melodrama those movies had). I think then you can just sit back and
enjoy this movie.

Steve Carell is a master of subtle comedy -- the comedy of character
nuances. He's not a big broad over-the-top comedy actor like Jim
Carrey. So it's not really fair to compare him to Jim and the Ace
Ventura movies.

It must be a lot of pressure on him: "You're the star of the most
expensive comedy ever made! Talk out of your butt or something!" 

They have him doing some slapstick while clumsily building the ark, but
it isn't really funny. The film is stocked with expert comedy actors,
but only Wanda Sykes got any laughs out of the audience. (But then,
it's said Wanda Sykes can get laughs just reading a phone book.) 

Sadly John Goodman is wasted as "the heavy". Over the closing credits,
you see a moment of him comic dancing and you remember how funny this
guy is.) 

I was amazed to find tears rolling down my cheeks about halfway through
-- when God disguised as a waiter has a little talk with Evan's wife
(who thinks her husband has lost his mind). It happened a few more
times till the end.

So if you turn off your laugh-o-meter expectations and just look at it
as a sweet story of faith with a few smiles and a lot of delightful
animals and some great disaster effects, you'll enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
One hundred and seventy five million dollars is a hell of a lot of
money to spend on even the biggest summer blockbuster. Not even Michael
Bay had a budget that big for Transformers, so exactly how Universal
Pictures spent that much cash making Evan Almighty is a mystery. They
certainly didn't spend it on the script for one thing as the film is
not so much a classic comedy as it is Christian flag waving and bar one
or two quiet chuckles, you're most likely to spend the duration
wondering where the budget went or why Steve Carrell felt the need to
slum it in a decidedly average movie at the exact moment when his star
profile has begun to rise.

A sequel to the Jim Carrey comedy Bruce Almighty, this film sees former
supporting character Evan Baxter (Carrell) moving up the ladder into
the main player slot. The story opens with him leaving the news desk to
become a public official and moving to Washington with his wife and
three generic sons (slightly weird primary school moppet, spirited
middle schooler and sulky teenager). Evan's bid to change the world
through politics however gets a spanner in the works when God (Morgan
Freeman) appears and asks him to build an Ark.

In other words, it's an updating of the old Genesis story, with Evan
fighting off cynicism and naysayers to build the immense boat.
Unfortunately, while the premise is reasonably promising, it sadly does
not provide many laughs. There's a bit of fun to be had in the early
going where Evan's straight-laced MP tries to juggle the demands of
public service with the unwelcome packs of animals that follow him
around and a beard that resists all attempts to shave it, but as soon
as he accepts his divine mission, the film takes a nosedive.

From this point on, it turns into a message movie. Evan begins
preaching with alarming regularity and Morgan Freeman keeps turning up
to offer kind wisdom, while gently prodding his chosen in the right
direction. Without Evan's resistance though, the only trace of comedy
left comes in the form of a few rubbish animal-feces jokes and John
Michael Higgin's role as Evan's exasperated right-hand man. Higgins may
show the same rich comic potential that he did previously in Arrested
Development, but his enthusiasm cannot save the sinking vessel,
especially seeing as Carrell has all but placed his formidable improv
skills on the back-burner.

In some respects, it's slightly similar to the Passion of the Christ,
but unlike Mel Gibson's movie which encouraged everyone to believe in
God through blood letting and guilt tripping, Evan Almighty tries a
more gentle approach. The movie simply tells us that we should have
faith in God, because He has faith in us. Unfortunately, this movie is
just as likely to make you laugh as the Passion is. Carrell is on
autopilot, the jokes don't exist and Wanda Sykes makes a bid to become
the most annoying person on the planet. It might be sweet, but somebody
just tossed $175 000 000 overboard.
<|_=00=_|>
Although I enjoy Steve Carrell's work, Evan the Almighty, like so many
other overdone films turned out to be a lot worse than I hoped it would
be.

This turned out to be a cheesy family movie, the kind that employ
famous comedian to improve their image, but ultimately fail to deliver.

The usual Carell's dorky humour is almost absent from the movie and
though he did make me chuckle a few times, there was nothing hilarious
about him in Evan the Almighty.

His 3 kids, although were probably somehow important for a biblical
character, were really quite useless in the movie and terrible actors.
Even his wife, was somewhat of a third leg for such a simple storyline.

Spending so much money on making a comedy was a huge mistake. Although,
Carell's career might profit from this movie, there's no real reason to
go see it.

If only there was a little less of his family, a little more of Carell,
Molly Shannon and maybe some other SNL cast, it could have actually
been a lot more entertaining.

4/10 for a few chuckles here and there.
<|_=00=_|>
Evan Almighty generated a lot of hype before its release. A lot of
people loved Bruce Almighty, and were expecting something just a zany
and hilarious in Evan Almighty. Most of them were disappointed: this
movie was received negatively by most critics and audiences alike.
Well, I liked it! First of all, this movie has been misunderstood,
because it was mismarketed. It was marketed as a hilarious sequel to
Bruce Almighty (and the trailer made it look that way, too). But, to be
perfectly honest, this is more of a family film than a comedy. But it
is a really good family film.

This film had a lot of potential for comedy. It delivered at times, but
not consistently. It also had two very crude toilet humour jokes
involving male genitalia (just the word, though, nothing beyond that).
I will freely admit, this isn't nearly as hilarious a comedy as the
original. But it's good in its own right.

Morgan Freeman's scenes as God were excellently written and performed!
One scene in particular, in a restaurant, was really touching and
moving. Freeman is really a terrific actor, I'm glad they cast him as
God. The performances in this movie were, overall, great. (Although
it's a lot of fun watching the young kid unable to resist looking into
the camera when pointing out two doves to his dad.) So, all in all,
Evan Almighty is not "almighty" but it's still "alrighty".
<|_=00=_|>
Well, for this abomination of a film, I wasn't expecting anything good.
I find Steve Carell annoying, and Bruce Almighty was pretty good but
there is absolutely no reason for it to have a sequel. Somehow, this
film was even lower than my expectations, even when I didn't have any. 

Does anyone remember the Disney movie Noah with Tony Danza? Well, let's
just say that Evan Almighty completely ripped it off in way too many
ways for the movie to remain justifiable. Actually Evan Almighty was
had the EXACT same plot outline as Noah, with the exception of a few
technicalities, it was nothing but a carbon copy of a far-superior
movie that was actually FUNNY. 

Another thing, did anyone get sick of Wanda Sykes' stupid, unfunny,
redundant, one-liners that were literally in every single scene? It was
completely ridiculous and just dragged the movie down more and more. 

Despite the fact that I basically had already seen the film ten years
earlier(Noah), Evan Almighty has to be the most predictable movie I've
ever seen. I figured out the entire movie from beginning to end within
the first five minutes and eventually realized that it was ripping off
Noah left and right. 

In conclusion, if you're a little bit unsure of whether or not you want
to see Evan Almighty, and are already sick of Jonah Hill playing the
same role in every single movie he's in, liked Bruce Almighty, and
don't want to see a predictable, dry, unfunny movie with Steve Carell
trying to act like Jim Carrey, then please, don't see this piece of
garbage.
