
There is something both enchanting and disorienting about watching a
Christopher Guest film that features conventional camera angles and a
narrative structure. It is a brave, and ultimately, a rewarding choice
for a director who has built his impeccable reputation on the strength
of his mockumentaries.

Like its predecessors Waiting for Guffman, Best in Show, and A Mighty
Wind, For Your Consideration is largely improvised, and reunites the
same winning cast. Gone, however, are several of the conventions of
Guest's previous films. For Your Consideration avoids the need to give
every last character an extended 'interview' segment and instead weaves
minor characters naturally into the fabric of the story. The narrative
structure also prevents Guest from relying too heavily on cuts to
b-roll sight gags that, while funny, are never more than gags. By
challenging himself to tell this story in the absence of these and
other mockumentary techniques, Guest is allowed to focus instead on
scenes that show how his characters really respond to one another in
the moment.

Half the fun of course is waiting for all the familiar faces to show
up, and discovering what crazy character they have inhabited this time
around. All the usual suspects are back in For Your Consideration,
playing a colourful array of Hollywood types. Insecurities, foibles -
and just a few quirks - are in full display.

Jennifer Coolidge is a brilliantly clueless producer, and Eugene Levy
has a nice turn as a somewhat smarmy agent who has no faith whatsoever
in his client (Harry Shearer's Victor Ann Miller). Guest himself is
hilarious playing director Jay Berman, and one only wishes that we got
to see more of his rehearsals with the actors, as these are some of the
funniest scenes in the film. Mike McKean and Bob Balaban are a fun team
as the cowriters of Home for Purim, the movie-within-the-movie. Making
his first appearance in a Guest film, Ricky Gervais grabs perhaps the
biggest laugh of all with a line that I won't spoil here. And while
Fred Willard and Jane Lynch are dealt very broad characters, their
send-up of Access Hollywood is laugh-out-loud funny, and provides the
perfect vehicle for Willard's boorish shtick.

John Michael Higgins is in amazing form as Corey Taft, sporting surreal
philosophies on actors and life that outdo even his colour-worshipping
character from A Mighty Wind. And the doe-eyed and endlessly endearing
Christopher Moynihan tosses off several absolute gems in response to
the inanity going on around him. Much like his character in the film,
he's likely to go unnoticed in favour of some flashier performances,
but deserves accolades of his own. He and Parker Posey have a sweet,
unrehearsed chemistry playing actors in puppy love.

While it is impossible to give due screen time to all of the troupe's
mainstays, some deserved better. Jim Piddock is dealt a potentially
juicier part than he's had in the past, as the irritable AD who is all
too aware that he's surrounded by idiots. But his screen time is far
too short to let it amount to much, and fans wanting to see him play
against type are better advised to check out his brilliant performance
in See This Movie. Meanwhile, Ed Begley Jr. is hideously miscast as the
film's token flamboyant gay man. Furthermore, having such recognizable
actors as Claire Forlani and particularly Sandra Oh show up for bit
parts in For Your Consideration is more distracting than anything, and
breaks the illusion of the self-contained world that worked so nicely
in Guest's previous efforts.

Despite all of the comedic talent on display however, this is Catherine
O'Hara's show, and she more than delivers in her role as fading screen
star Marilyn Hack. Her insecurities, dreams, and vulnerabilities are
handled with such poignancy and humour that O'Hara fully deserves
whatever accolades may come her way in the months to come. She is
luminous.

If For Your Consideration comes up a little short, it is in the story
department. The outline devised by Guest and Levy suffers somewhat from
a lack of focus. If, as Guest insists, this film is not intended as a
satire of Hollywood but is rather the tragicomic tale of what happens
to someone when they are told that they deserve an award, we should be
spending less time on all the Hollywood in-jokes and parodies, and more
time with the characters themselves.

We don't learn quite enough about our main characters  those portrayed
by Catherine O'Hara, Harry Shearer, and Parker Posey  to really
understand how monumental it is for them to be caught up in the Oscar
hype. We see that, professionally, they desperately need the break. But
we get no perspective on how this effects their personal lives, or
changes the way that they relate to the people closest to them. Where
are their families? Their friends? They don't seem to have any. And if
that was the point in and of itself, it wasn't brought across clearly
enough.

Whatever the film's shortcomings, it is the smaller details that are
purely Guest which make this film a triumph and future classic: Guest's
perfect intonation as he instructs one actor to deliver his line as
though "Mommy is going now?", Jennifer Coolidge jumping in at the
absolute perfect moment with "But what about me!?" in the midst of a
heated argument that has nothing to do with her, or the sight of Harry
Shearer suddenly wearing Rachael Harris' hat to help him get into
character. These are the small moments that give Guest's works the rare
distinction of being films that get progressively funnier with each
viewing.

My hope for the next Guest film is that it continues to stretch the
troupe in the way that these last two films have done. Ideally, we'll
see an improvised, narrative comedy with some heart, all the expected
hilarity and a little more plot structure. Until then, here it is, for
your consideration
<|_=00=_|>
I'm surprised by the number of negative reviews here for what I thought
was in many ways Christopher Guest's most developed movie yet. Granted,
you either like his movies or not, but as someone who loved Waiting for
Guffman, Best in Show and Mighty Wind equally, I was in no way
disappointed by For Your Consideration.

Maybe some of the humor here is easier to appreciate if you're Jewish,
but that can't account for more than 5% of the jokes, and all of the
actors were great. Particular kudos to O'Hara (as usual), Shearer,
Lynch and Posey. The ET/Charlie Rose/Ebert & Roeper spoofs were
hilarious and dead-on. The ending of the movie was truer than that of
his previous films, and the ever expanding cast of Guest players made
the viewing experience more fun than in the past (Sandra Oh, Ricky
Gervais etc.).

My theory is that it's hard to approach a new Christopher Guest movie
without justifiably expecting a lot, and great expectations often lead
to disappointment. I was anxious to see For Your Consideration, but
found it to be rewarding, very funny, and a little more poignant than
usual (a good thing). Give it a chance and it'll grow on you.
<|_=00=_|>
I truly enjoyed this film, as did most everyone else at the World
Premier in Toronto. Firstly, I haven't seen Spinal Tap, but of all the
rest of his films, this is my favorite. His decision to depart the
mockumentary format worked wonders in his favor. He didn't change his
format so dramatically that you're unaware you're watching a Guest
movie, it still carries his stamp. What he's done with this format is
find a way to shave off all the somewhat boring bits that his other
movies had durring the middle. Every second of this film was completely
entertaining and will have you on the floor with laughter. The way he
pokes fun of the silliness surrounding the Academy Awards is hilarious.

Guest himself probably gave my favorite performance as the director of
"Home for Purim", with Jennifer Collidge coming in second as the
producer. I truly can't wait to see this movie again when it goes wide
release.
<|_=00=_|>
I look forward to Christopher Guest movies in the same way Ralphie did
for his much beloved Red Ryder BB Gun in "A Christmas Story". Drenched
with his deadpan wit, Guest's mockumentaries have been such
well-targeted show business satires that it's hard to know when the
script stops and the improvised reality begins. But that's a lot of the
fun with his films, even though his newest is easily the most
structured of the bunch. Along with constant co-writer and co-star
Eugene Levy, Guest picks a target ripe with possibilities in this 2006
comedy, the Oscar-baiting season prior to the nominations, and
surprisingly foregoes the direct interview format in favor of a more
traditional narrative. I have to admit I miss some of this dynamic
because the on-camera realism resulted in some of the funniest moments
in the previous films.

Gratefully, what has been kept from his other films is Guest's stellar
ensemble company of comic actors, and this time an even larger cast has
been gathered, none of whom disappoint in this outing. The plot focuses
on the production of a low-budget studio-bound film, "Home for Purim",
a WWII-era family melodrama about a Jewish family in Georgia coping
with the mother's terminal illness and the daughter's emergence as a
lesbian. Directed by an authoritarian nebbish with an Art Garfunkel
hairdo named Jay Berman, the film looks to be an overly sincere piece
of tripe, but a blogger on one of the movie sites has predicted leading
lady Marilyn Hack, a resigned, over-the-hill B-actress, will be
nominated for an Oscar. This starts an Oscar buzz that engulfs the two
other nominal principals of the movie, hot-dog pitchman Victor Allen
Miller and "serious" actress Callie Webb, and the tidal wave of
publicity drastically changes the direction and marketing campaign of
the movie even before it's completed.

Guest and Levy fully capture the superficial pandering that occurs when
the buzz is in full swing, and they particularly ridicule the ignorance
and outdated thinking of those who find themselves in this
lightning-in-a-bottle situation. There are acidic jabs at all the
infotainment programs - "Entertainment Tonight", "MTV TRL", "The
Charlie Rose Show" and "Ebert & Roeper"  but this is character-driven
farce, and several stand out. In a brave turn as Marilyn, the wonderful
and ever-dependable Catherine O'Hara superbly captures the almost
overnight evolution from forgotten, timeworn actress into
botox-infused, cleavage-squeezing A-lister wannabe. Harry Shearer gets
his best showcase yet as the put-upon Victor whose mouthy agent Morley
Orfkin refuses to take his calls until the buzz hits them. As Callie,
Parker Posey is more in reactive mode here, though she has a funny
Sandra Bernhard-like bit with her character's one-woman show, "No Penis
Intended".

Everyone else gets less screen time, but they all provide memorably
riotous contributions  Guest as Berman, Levy as Morley, Jennifer
Coolidge as clueless producer Whitney Taylor Brown, John Michael
Higgins as bromide-spouting publicist Corey Taft, Don Lake and Michael
Hitchcock as the Love It/Hate It movie critics, Michael McKean and Bob
Balaban as the academic screenwriters, Ed Begley Jr. as Marilyn's fey
hairdresser (and biggest fan), Ricky Gervais as the oily studio honcho,
and best of all, as the entertainment TV co-hosts, Fred Willard as
mohawk-moussed Chuck Porter and Jane Lynch as gam-showcasing Mary
Hart-knockoff Cindy Martin. I imagine Guest's reputation is the reason
you see such high-profile actors like Sandra Oh and Craig Bierko in
nothing more than bit parts here. The film takes a sharp turn toward
the end that adds surprising vitriol to the laughs, and the
vituperative tone makes the proceedings all the more devastating and
resonant. More like "A Mighty Wind" with its dramatic undercurrents,
this one is not as laugh-out-loud as "Waiting for Guffman" and "Best in
Show", but it shows a continuing maturation in Guest's film-making
technique that is most welcome.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm also surprised by some of the negative commentary around 'For your
Consideration'. The satire seemed to me to be to be quite precise -
particularly in its analysis of the average actor's life - which is a
lot more like "For Your Consideration" or Ricky Gervais's brilliant
"The Extras" than anything you're likely to see on Entertainment
Tonight that is for sure.

Having studied method acting over several years (a long time ago), and
having worked as an extra at different low points in my life (never
ever again), I have to say that I laughed till I cried. Without giving
the ending away,Marilyn Hacke's closing scene is so on the money - what
a cracker!

Acting, actor training and film are all open to exploitation of the
gullible because so many people are desperate to be part of it;
consequently it's an area ripe for satire. For me, this was more on the
money than "Waiting for Guffman" although I enjoyed that too. For your
consideration has sharper edges. I think it's great that Ricky Gervais
performs in this film. Gervaise is such an 'English' comic whilst
Guest's sensibilities are very American - but in the shared fascination
with human idiosyncracies, banalities and foibles, they both create a
very contemporary form of the comedy of manners.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this acting troupe. They are a well tuned machine. Though this
movie is perhaps a little "inside" of the Hollywood Movie Industry, and
the publicity machine on which it is driven, all of the regulars and
the new faces invited into the fold give wonderful performances and
play their parts with just the right amount of camp with their tongues
in their cheeks. I mean after all. don't many of us WANT to know about
the inside of the industry? The duo entertainment reporters ( Jane
Lynch and Fred Willard) are hilarious and Catherine O'hara's
performance is masterful. (do I hear Oscar Buzzzz?) But that is not to
say any of the cast's performances were not noteworthy. My whole family
had a great time. This is not meant to be a Great panoramic epic, this
is good clean hilarity from some of our favorite actors.

If you are a fan of "Best in Show", Waiting for Guffman etc, or you
just want to get to know these gifted actors, DO go see this film, nap
before you go so you can be happy and rested and hear the inside jokes
that spark the guffaws heard throughout the theater. Zaina
<|_=00=_|>
Sooner or later, it was bound to happen. In an impressive string of
wonderful mockumentary farces over the past few years, guiding lights
Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy, and their brilliant comedic acting
ensemble, have joyfully savaged the self-important cultural "worlds" of
small town amateur theater ("Waiting for Guffman"), dog shows ("Best in
Show") and folk music ("A Mighty Wind").

But a winning formula can't go on forever unchanged, nor should we
expect it to. Inevitably, the group have hit a bump in the road with
their latest film, "For Your Consideration," a send-up of Hollywood
movie making and the assorted vanities of movie makers. Not that it's
bad. But compared to those earlier works, it isn't inspired; it doesn't
grab you with its efforts to lampoon; and the performances of the
actors - always uniformly of a high caliber in most of their movies 
is highly variable in this new movie. Perhaps the theme hits too close
to home: it's hard to gain the distance necessary to properly ridicule
your own ethos, your own cultural world. Or maybe it's just that the
recipe Guest and Levy have used to such delightful advantage has just
gotten old, for viewers and for Guest's company.

The plot, for what it's worth, concerns a film within a film: the
making of a new movie, the ethnically freighted "Home for Purim," which
is later rewritten and retitled "Home for Thanksgiving" to broaden its
commercial box office appeal. All the stereotypes one expects are on
hand: the avaricious executive producers; the harried director; the
screenwriters, pained by the incremental decimation of their work; the
aging stars in decline; the young up and comings; the vain chase after
that holiest of grails: an Oscar, the hangers on  the parasitic,
disingenuous talent agent, talk show hosts, film critics and
entertainment reporters. They're all here.

Parker Posey (young actress possibly on the way up), Catherine O'Hara
((veteran actress on the way out), Jennifer Coolidge (ditzy producer),
and Eugene Levy (actors' agent) provide decent turns but none of these
superb talents gives a truly inspired performance here. Harry Shearer
is better as a long-suffering actor who is glad enough just to star in
a feature film after years of making commercials, Oscar or no Oscar.
But the comedic scene stealers in this movie are three pairs of actors
who play off each other to wonderful effect: Fred Willard and Jane
Lynch as a TV entertainment reporting duo, Bob Balaban and Michael
McKean as the beleaguered screenwriters, and Don Lake and Michael
Hitchcock as Siskel-Ebert style TV critics. There are several competent
cameo contributors as well, the best of whom is Carrie Aizley, a movie
journalist. 

This is decent fare, but I think Guest and Levy need to re-imagine
their formula for successful farce. I never thought the day would come
when I would regard a comedy written by David Mamet as superior to work
by Guest & Levy, but here's a tip: if you want to see a good send-up of
movie making, try Mamet's 2000 film, "State and Main." My grades:
6.5/10 (low B) (Seen on 11/15/06)
<|_=00=_|>
I don't have much to say about "For Your Consideration," except that I
liked it, in spite of the negative reviews it received, and I wanted to
say that here in case other viewers, like me, put off viewing it
because the reviews put us off.

"For Your Consideration" is a small, brief (86 minutes), sweet, funny
movie. It's not as laugh-out-loud funny as "Best in Show" (few movies
are) but I liked it better than "Mighty Wind," which I also liked.

Christopher Guest's usual crew is in its usual fine form. Catherine
O'Hara is funny in a whole new way, with at least one scene that is
quite poignant and unforgettable, at least to struggling artists. John
Michael Higgins does a very funny William H. Macy-like character. Jane
Lynch is dead-on as an "Entertainment Tonight" style tabloid
"journalist." 

I even liked the ventriloquist Nina Conti -- and I normally run from
the room when a ventriloquist comes on.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a gigantic "Waiting for Guffman" fan. I also really liked "Best In
Show." I thought "A Mighty Wind," while not great, was creative and
tender. I saw "For Your Consideration" today and while there were funny
moments peppered throughout, the film comes off as half-baked. I sat
there until the last credit rolled trying to like this film, and
couldn't.

I appreciate that so many actors have joined up with Guest to be in his
movies, but there are now so many Guest "regulars" that there is barely
any character development. "A Mighty Wind" tried to remedy this by
giving each character one big quirk. "Consideration" seems to use this
tactic sparingly... both a blessing and a curse. What I miss is the
intimacy of "Guffman," where we got to know 5-6 characters very well.
"Consideration" comes off less as an ensemble cast, and more as a long
string of cameos.

Catherine O'Hara gives a brilliant, nuanced performance~ I wish we had
gotten to know more about her character.

*Definitely spoilers here!* As other reviewers have pointed out,
"Consideration" has a very similar ending to "Guffman." But whereas the
ending of "Guffman" is somewhat bemusing (Corky talking about his
shop), I thought the ending of "Consideration" was cruel, predictable,
and saddening.
<|_=00=_|>
Guest seems to be pushing the envelope with Hollywood in this feature,
but it isn't funny  it is random, chaotic, and emotional when it
should not be. Being a fan of Guest's earlier work, I was initially
excited about this outing, but upon viewing it just didn't gel together
 emotionally or passionately like Guests other work. This seemed like
Guest made a film to spoof the industry, but instead created a dismal
look at how comedy can self destruct, even with your regulars trying to
make us laugh.

Guest announced in 2005 that he would stop making the "mockumentary"
because he thought they were not funny any longer. Hoping to see bigger
and braver things from this pioneering director, I hoped "For Your
Consideration" would be a fresh chapter in his repertoire of films, but
alas, it was nothing of the sort. To begin, the characters seemed stale
and uncharismatic. As a "mockumentary", the audience may have had the
opportunity to see these actors consume their roles, to build unknown
back stories, or to challenge themselves to take their character to the
limit, but it never happened as a full-feature film. This was a regular
comedy that fruitfully never picked up speed, never pushed the limit,
and tried to use similar Guest techniques that would have only worked
as a mockumentary. It began to implode with the characters, since we
couldn't see them talking directly to us, we had to follow their moves
 watch them as they failed, and attempted to make us laugh with their
irregularities. Again, what would typically make us laugh in a
mockumentary-styled film failed at this level. To demonstrate the
error, let's begin with Catherine O'Hara. In Guest's work, she is
typically a staple of comedy. Her portrayal of Mickey Crabbe in "A
Might Wind" was phenomenal, but in this film it seemed forced, unfunny,
and catastrophic. From the opening scene, O'Hara never really defines
her character. Is she pushing for freedom, is she ignorant to the
truth, or is she trying to fit within the Hollywood scene? Valid
questions that never quite get off the ground as we are bombarded with
more and more "guest" characters that push this little film into
non-existence. Harry Shearer is another example, typically he is
genuine in his roles for Guest, but in this feature he just felt stale.
He wasn't trying to be funny, nor did he push any level of comedy. The
entire hot dog bit was cliché, as was Eugene Levy's performance as his
agent. I think that is where problems occurred in this film  there
wasn't anything original about Guest's characters in this film, and I
think the actors knew it. Fred Willard was the only humorous element to
this film  giving us the exact same performance as he did in "Best in
Show". This may not have been a mockumentary, but it would have been a
mockumentary that would have saved this little feature.

Guest had trouble behind the camera with this film. His camera work
seemed staged and oblique. There was no questioning scene that pushed
the limit or forced us to see Guest in a new light. He teased the
audience, giving us hopes that midway through this film he would
transform it into a mockumentary, but alas it never happened. The
stages were set, but nothing happened. I couldn't tell if it was the
actors that weren't as funny, or Guest's vision was just weak. As a
viewer, you find yourself standing outside of this film. You know what
Guest's potential can be, yet when you watch this you know that there
are just actors playing actors playing preset roles. The addition of
Ricky Gervais, Sandra Oh, and Rachael Harris made this Guest film feel
like a downtrodden Woody Allen film. Was it a homage to him? The
building blocks of this story were weak, thus the entire structure
seemed to fall when the pieces fell apart. Comedy was horrible, the
story was non-existent, and the actors just seemed used and tired of
the time, place, and story.

One other aspect that bewildered me, is anyone else tired of the sad,
unsung heroes of Christopher Guest's films seeming like they are being
stepped on each minute of the feature. They were fun in "Waiting for
Guffman" and "Best in Show", they were endearing in "A Mighty Wind",
but in this film they just felt hurt, and at times violent. While I did
chuckle at Willard showing up at the non-nominees doors the next day, I
thought that crossed a line from funny to violently sad. Again, I did
laugh, but not in that boisterous "Christopher Guest" sort of way. I
think that best defines this film, it had its moments, but overall it
just felt bland. There was no flavor. The actors realized this, but
Guest continued with this sad little project. Not a positive mark on
his report card.

Overall, I wasn't impressed. This late in the game there is a level of
necessity needed, either step up your choice of films (like direct a
drama or science fiction) or continue growing the genre you have
exploited. "For Your Consideration" will have some chuckling moments,
but nothing that screams amazing. Guest could have strengthened his
role as a comic genius by creating this same film under the guise of a
mockumentary and it would have been phenomenal. There was a lacking air
of originality with this film and the actors genuinely didn't fit their
parts. This was a sad film that could have been more. I saw the
potential, but nothing came out of it. I will continue to give Guest a
shot with his amazing back list of films, but a continuation of this
type of film will lessen his appeal. Watch it once, but not a film to
keep in your collection.

Grade: ** out of *****
