
Earlier this year, I tore the re-make of When A Stranger Calls apart,
and said at the time, that if Hollywood won't bother making new horror
movies, but instead simply re-make old or foreign ones, then just stop.
I stand by that.

However...

Black Christmas actually surprised me. First, it was actually a lot
more brutal and violent than I was expecting, considering it's 15
rating (UK). The other, was the way it re-worked the original.

The original, which I haven't seen for awhile was as much a whodunit as
anything else. Here we're spared that. We know pretty much from the
start who is killing here.

What the makers have done, is simply turn the story into a stalk and
slash movie, which as I said is quite brutal in areas. For me a movie
of this type stands or falls not on the killer or how they kill, but on
the potential victims in the story. If you care about them, then you
feel bad they are killed. If you don't, then give me an axe, I'll do it
myself!! Black Christmas does enough to make you care about each
character, by making each one a little different, but yet, having
enough in character to make you believe they could get along normally.
So when the killing starts, you do care about them, and begin to wonder
who, or how many will make it to the end alive.

The death scenes are well set up and done, which isn't surprising
considering the makers also did Final Destination 1 & 3. If I have a
problem with them is that the film is maybe a little over-edited so at
times, you aren't sure if certain characters have been killed or not.

This movie has been getting a critical mauling in certain areas. But I
found on watching it, that it's fun, enjoyable, with a black(!) sense
of humour, some very nice looking actresses in it!, and for it's
(admittedly short) running time very entertaining. And when I go to see
a movie like this, that's what I want.

Enjoyable late-night fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I know I will get heat for having enjoyed Black Christmas 2006. Hell, I
can't really even call this a "good" movie. It is severely flawed in
many ways, and it's not even closely comparable to the original.
Monster holes are present in the story line. The cinematography at
times is choppy, dark, and grainy. And, most of all, there is ZERO
suspense. How can a movie with such negativity possibly get a 7 out of
10?Well, technical goofs aside, there is a lot of fun to be had here! 

It has a completely different atmosphere and tone than the original
had, as well as a completely different approach at it's villain. For
one, the violence and murders in the 2006 version are much gorier and
more over the top! Okay, so the original's approach at implied violence
worked much better, but I appreciated the filmmaker's aiming for
something different! I had a lot of fun watching Billy maim and
dismember all of the sorority girls and their boyfriends! The kills
were absolutely crazy! A lot of blood splashing! 

Unfortunately, the characters here, unlike in 1974, are purely
2-dimensional and unforgivably stupid. However, the performances were
very well done, and there were some truly witty lines of dialogue! One
thing this film reaped was dark humor! Much appreciated! I especially
LOVED the performance done by Billy's mother! She was the best actress
in the film and unfortunately had the least screen time. 

Also different from the original is the fact that Billy is identified
and his origin is revealed. Again, this completely takes away the
suspense and mystery of the killer like the original's had. BUT, the
flashback scenes were very well done! It really got to you and was
disturbing to say the least. It also did a very good job of portraying
a morbid family. Well done on that part!

Again, as I said before, there is NO suspense here! The violence and
scares are pretty much laughable, but that's why this film is fun! It's
so bad and flawed that it's a riot and a good time! My advice: Think of
it as a completely different film. In no way does this hurt the
original. The 1974 version still exists. The 2006 version will go
nowhere, but it will always remain a fun little piece of cheese to
watch whenever anyone wants to have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
Black Christmas is the remake of the 1974 horror classic about a group
of sorority girls who are menaced by a killer on Christmas Eve.
However, where the original had a simple plot that involved a killer in
the attic making creepy phone calls to the girls before the killing
starts. Well, I guess the makers of this version decided that wasn't
hip enough. That wasn't "2006 generic slasher movie" enough, so they
added a bogus back story and some twisted elements, and we got
worthless, mindless dreck.

Everything that made the original good was gone in this movie. The
first movie had everything. Point of view shots for the killer so we
never actually see him. In the original we know nothing about the
killer or his motives. We have to piece together our own back story
through his phone calls. There are suspects throughout the movie who we
think the killer could be. There's a detective investigating the calls.
All of the girls are likable. In this version we are treated to a
handful of unlikeable characters. We know who the killer is right away,
and a ridiculous back story is spoon fed to us. It involves Billy (the
killer in the original) witnessing his mother kill his father. His
mother remarries and keeps him locked in the attic until one night she
decides to have sex with him. Billy fathers his little sister, and then
when she's six he stabs her eye out and kills his mother and step
father. Agnes ends up in the sorority house and ends up committing most
of the murders, and Billy, who is SUPPOSED to be the main killer, plays
second fiddle and does basically nothing. Even the "calls are coming
from in the house" twist is gone.

The writing is just god awful, and it shows what the writers think
teenagers are like nowadays. It's wonderful seeing such brilliantly
thought out dialogue as "Guys, it's, like, Christmas Eve". The acting
isn't any better. The only remotely okay acting comes from Andrea
Martin who is in here to pay respect to the original, but it's useless.
This is the worst acting I've seen in a horror movie since the Saw
trilogy.

Stay far away from this mess. It's complete disrespect to a classic
horror film.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
I had very high expectations for this film. I thought that this might
be the one "Re-make" that is the exception because of the involvement
of the original film maker, Bob Clark, serving as assistant producer.
BOY was I wrong!!! There are some exceptional murder sequences in this
flick but that is not enough. Once again, as is the case in so many
"Re-makes" the storyline has been almost completely changed! The
producers do not seem to realize the elements that made the original
film scary in the first place which are now missing! Such as the fact
that, in the original you were never quite sure who the killer was and
they never revealed it. Now not only do they reveal it, but they add an
entire background that is so laughably unbelievable that it dilutes the
film's ability to frighten the viewer. The over-the-top gore sequences
alone do not make for a frightening movie and the "twist" ending is
quite laughable! What they add to the ending of this movie is utterly
ridiculous and absolutely unnecessary! Aside from exceptional gore
effects, the only other saving grace is the presence of Andrea Martin
from the original film as Mrs. Mack but they should have really tried
harder to make the characters from the original more like those in the
original...and the phone calls, a crucial element to the terrifying
experience of the original, are absolutely laughable! Skip this one and
watch the original.
<|_=00=_|>
I know by now that when you watch a teen slasher movie you cannot set
high expectations. If I go into it expecting the usual formula (a
deranged killer separates the hapless youngsters and kills them
one-by-one in horrible ways) then it should be fine. Somehow, though,
Black Christmas managed to disappoint me anyway.

I don't, for example, expect the acting to be stellar. Honestly, even
if there are a few skilled actors hidden among the T&A the typical
slasher script is not going to lend itself to them flexing any dramatic
muscles. But, please. Oliver Hudson played the Kyle character so
laughably wooden that it was really annoying. And, what happened to
Lacy Chabert? She was touted at one time as being "one of the most
promising young actresses" but we find her in this dismal mess as not
only one of the generic victims, but also one that gets offed halfway
through the movie. No, even by slasher standards, the performances are
uniformly horrible.

Ah well, there's the gore right? That's the real reason to watch a
slasher flick. Strike two for Black Christmas here. And I watched the
"Unrated" version. I can only imagine how tame and unimaginative the
theatrical "R" version must have been. The one big thing seemed to be
the eyeball. Everyone had their eye plucked out, or poked out or even
shoved through the back of their head. But, if you're going to make
that your central gore theme, at least know the eye. They're actually
pretty delicate organs, easily punctured and drained. In Black
Christmas they were plucked out and waved about on ridiculously fake
looking stalks or, as mentioned, shoved through heads, all the while
remaining perfectly intact. The eyes held up so well that the killer
used them as Christmas tree ornaments. There was a scene in Alias
(Season 4 I think) where, because the writers understood the nature of
the eye, Marshall's plucking of one caused far more discomfort without
the viewer actually seeing any of the gore than all of Black Christmas'
fake splatter combined.

Okay, well, how about the story? Your slasher flick needs a killer with
a background so twisted that, in retribution, you can only imagine the
terror he or she is going to visit on the victims. Strike three, and
Black Christmas is out. Billy Lenz is never going to have to worry
about being mentioned in the same breath as Vorhees, Myers or Krueger.
He was a kid whose mother, with her boyfriend, murdered his father. She
knew Billy witnessed them burying the father but we didn't see her do
anything violent to him. She made him stay in the attic and even went
up to have sex with him. Eh that's twisted but not in the way to spawn
a slasher-flick villain. Oh wait, Billy was also born with a rare liver
disease that made his skin yellow. This didn't really matter as most of
his scenes were far too darkly lit to notice. Okay but he did have a
daughter/sister from his union with mom. She also turned into a
slasher-flick villainess. *yawn* It's all really just weak. Including
the movie's catchphrase, hissed repeatedly by both killers, "(Insert
victim's name here) is in our family noooowwww!" Okay. Whatever.

After the credits finally rolled we hopped over to the bonus features
as I always like to watch the theatrical trailer after I've seen a
movie. I don't like to watch them beforehand, as trailers now tend to
give away plot points. That wouldn't have been an issue here of course,
but I enjoy seeing the trailers to see what key elements they decided
would be the most useful in convincing folks to see the movie. I
noticed in the bonus features that they included an "Alternate Ending".
I didn't bother watching it but it made me wish they had included a
link to an "Alternate Movie". A better one.
<|_=00=_|>
BC is precisely what the dumbed-down masses deserve. I have no idea
what the original is like, but it can only be better than this
incredibly uninvolving and dull garbage.

A bunch of bickering females, realizing they're in danger, refuse to
leave the house - even though it's a house in which mass-murder was
committed - and instead decide to hang around so that they can be
butchered one-by-one. (It's the old Eddie Murphy "if the house is
haunted, get the f*** out!" line.) Everything that occurs in this
typical slasher film, the worst of all horror genres, is cretinous and
no amount of "spicing it up" with cannibalism and incest can change
that.

The supposedly major twist at the end is that the killer's
sister/daughter is in the house, too; only a moron could not see that
coming. Even worse, Agnes is played by a man, and rather large man. I
have no idea what they were thinking. Agnes was shown to be an ugly
girl at 12, but not MANLY. There is no explanation as to when or why
this creature decided to have sex-change surgery, accompanied with
massive, almost Mickeyrourkian (or Cheresque) facial surgery.

Nothing makes sense, but even a silly little slasher film needs to have
a semblance of logic. It isn't quite clear why Agnes decided to help
Billy kill utter strangers, when she has every reason to avenge her
lost eye by chopping off Billy's own head. So basically Agnes was
grateful to her brother for having attacked her so viciously, is
she?... 

However, if you think the makers of this crap-o-rama were satisfied
with boring you only with cretinous house activities, think again. The
movie decides to drag on by resurrecting the
brother/sister-father/daughter couple in a hospital morgue, after which
the two proceed to find the only remaining survivors with ease that
even those who designed the building couldn't muster. Plus, I never
quite understood why they'd so single-mindedly go for the blonde and
the brunette, when they had a plethora of staff and other patients to
kill.

Did you know that an ice-cone falling from only a meter above you will
pierce your flesh like soft butter? Apparently, the women all had very
soft heads, which is something I can't disagree with...

I also love the way Billy escaped the lunatic asylum. If all madhouse
guards were this dumb then all such asylums would be empty all the
time.

Apparently, when a madhouse guard is killed, it takes about ten weeks
for anyone to find the body and alert the police.

If it was snowing that much and the roads were blocked, then how the
hell did Agnes and Billy get to the house? Surely they never had the
time to learn to drive. Or maybe they just took a bus. Or grew wings
and flew. Or maybe both of them were locked up in hospitals that were
conveniently close to the house. Mere meters away...

Surely a candidate for one of the worst horror film of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
Many years ago, a mistreated boy named Billy Lenz slaughtered his
family in a one-house killing spree. Not surprisingly, this had him
committed to an asylum. Since then, his house has been converted into a
sorority house. And this Christmas, Billy wants to be home with his
family to celebrate.

Let me say a few nice things before I start venting. First, I have to
say I must have been a very good boy this year because I can't recall
such an attractive cast in the recent past. Three of my all-time
favorite young ladies show up here: Michelle Trachtenberg ("Eurotrip"),
Lacey Chabert ("Pleasure Drivers"), and Mary Elizabeth Winstead
(numerous recent horror films, including "Final Destination 3"). It was
quite the visual feast!

I also enjoyed the inclusion of Andrea Martin as Ms. MacHenry, the
house mother. Martin was one of the college girls from the original
film and I think it's important to pay some sort of tribute like this
(as well as the use of "Clark Sanitarium"). She was a good pick, better
than Margot Kidder.

And the use of incest and cannibalism is always a plus (both of which
were absent in the original)... and the gore was decent (though not
great) with the constant eye-gouging thanks to a glass unicorn. I do
love unicorns, as my embroidered unicorn pillow might suggest. While I
do not think it was intentional, I appreciate how the unicorn reminded
me of another great classic, "The Abominable Dr. Phibes".

But let's start the ripping: Glen Morgan was probably the wrong guy to
direct this. He brought along cast members from his prior films (again,
such as "Final Destination 3") which was fine, but seemed to put very
little thought into any of this. And his films have more of a teenager
quality to them, making even the gore, incest and cannibalism seem very
youth-oriented, if that makes any sense. R-Rated or not, this was meant
for teens to watch. He could have really stepped it up a dozen notches.

The girls get little or no personalities. I don't think I learned half
of their names and had difficulty keeping them straight. Maybe reduce
the number by one or two so we could at least see them for ten minutes?
On the flip side, the film focused almost entirely on Billy Lenz,
providing his entire back story. The original never touched on this at
all, which made him creepier and more mysterious. Here, there's nothing
strange about him (besides the yellow skin and eyes, which play no
importance). Obviously, Morgan never learned the secret of good horror:
don't show the killer.

Furthermore, they wasted the character of the boyfriend Kyle (who was
named Peter in the original). Here, he is briefly thought by the girls
to be the killer, but the audience knows the whole time that he's not.
In the original, you never know whether or not Peter is the killer (in
fact, many people who watched all the way to the end still aren't
sure). If Kyle isn't a red herring, and his only purpose is to bring up
some sex tape which was not important to the story (despite being shown
again and again), then what the hell was he doing in the movie at all?

Other great elements from the original were toned down: the police
station scenes, the drunk girl (who now passes out right away). And a
shower scene was added, but no explicit nudity, making it almost a
complete waste of time.

I'll stop before I start frothing at the mouth. Because, seriously, I
was let down. Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed this movie, but it
was clearly the teen remake (not unlike the newer "When A Stranger
Calls"). If you need a fix of girls getting strangled with a plastic
bag and stabbed in the eye (and that's really all you'll see), check
this out. Otherwise, you'll find plenty of great slashers out there on
the video shelf. And, of course, you simply cannot beat the original
"Black Christmas", one of the best horror films ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a fan of all sorts of horror films including stalker / slasher
type movies and this is perhaps the worst modern example of one of
these I have ever sat through. None of the characters are likable so
you do not care if they are murdered, in fact there is so little
character development that they are all interchangeable. Despite some
reasonable gore there is so little tension that it drags on for what
seems like hours.

In the end it simply does not work because of so many unbelievable
situations. They are stalked around a sorority house that is miles from
anywhere (are you not supposed to share these to live NEAR a campus ?).
Even when dead bodies start to pile up they still go off into the dark
on their own to check out noises !!! Every situation is ridiculous, how
the killer fools the guard at the asylum for example. No one would ever
act in the way the guard does and this theme follows the whole film
through. 

You do wonder how the inept script was ever green lighted. One to
avoid, even for fans of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Some movies are very confident in their ability to do many things
right, thus ensuring an intriguing experience. A movie like "Black
Christmas," however, is mostly confident in its ability to do many
things wrong, yet still remain watchable on some bizarre level.
Needless to say, it's an overhaul of the seminal 1974 slasher of the
same name, in which a lonely sorority house is besieged by a killer
making obscene phone-calls from the attic over the holidays. The 2006
version takes this premise and attempts to build a backstory around
murderer Billy Lentz, who remained a shadowy specter throughout Bob
Clark's film. I have to give writer-director Glen Morgan credit: while
this bit of character development is wildly uneven (including giving
Billy a sister-in-madness), it is consistent with the wildly
inconsistent rest of the film. Morgan brought a strong sense of macabre
humor and visual style (I dare call it "Burtonesuqe") to his
exceptional remake of "Willard" (helped by Crispin Glover's
delightfully wacky performance), but his stylistic leanings are simply
the wrong match for a "Black Christmas" remake. There is not a single
suspenseful scene to be found, and the violence is so exaggerated that
it defuses any horrific effect (seriously, a killer who eats
eyeballs?); additionally, the characters are so ill-defined that it's
hard to keep track of who's who (had the number of girls been whittled
down the point where they had actual personalities, we might have
actually given a damn about them). And, for a slasher film coming in
the wake of "Scream" and its kindred, "Black Christmas" just shows a
general lack of common sense when an obvious threat is lurking (can you
really feel sorry for a security guard who lingers in a maniac's room
long enough to get knocked off?). But in an odd way, "Black Christmas"
avoids the oblivion of crappy horror remakes due to Morgan's
impassioned, assured sense of visual stylethat being said, it's
nowhere near as good as its predecessor.

4.5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
It was not a bad idea to attempt a remake of Black Christmas. The
original, with all its scurrying around in a pre-historic telephone
exchange, was ripe for updating. The new version, however, brings the
technology up to date and keeps the creepy chocolate box setting, but
loses just about everything else that was decent about the original.
The storyline for the first film was slow, but successfully built up
suspense as Billy picked off each of the girls one by one, while the
police gradually tracked down his whereabouts. In the remake, the
police are irrelevant - they can't help because there's too much snow -
and so the whole thing after the first twenty minutes is focused on
establishing a dreary line-up of red herrings while Billy, or whoever
it is, quickly takes out each of the girls. One of the genuinely creepy
things about the original was the way Billy's identity and motivation
were never explained. Who was he? What was his connection to the house.
Who is Agnes who he keeps groaning on about? The end of the film left
the audience unsettled as Billy remained undetected and we still didn't
know anything about him. For the new film the writers make the mistake
of going all out to tell us everything and more about Billy and his
uninteresting backstory. The flashbacks take us away from the tense
situation in the house and are ultimately only confusing. Given their
screwed up childhood, shouldn't we feel sorry for Billy and Agnes? Yes
- but no, they want to eat your eyeballs.

It's not only Billy and Agnes who are one dimensional. None of the
girls is given anything more than the most obvious of personality
traits. Most of them even look the same, so except for the blonde
"final girl," I couldn't tell you anything about what distinguishes
each of them from one another. Again, this is in stark contrast with
the original film in which the main characters are interesting and
memorable. Margot Kidder in particular was striking as the loudmouth
proto-feminist who drinks too much and suffers a memorable asthma
attack. And then Olivia Hussey brought real credibility as well as a
strange kind of Virgin Mary sexuality to the central role. Remarkably
her arguments with her boyfriend focused on her wanting to have an
abortion while he wanted to get married and start a family. Unthinkable
in modern Hollywood - so this has to be turned into arguments about her
boyfriend cheating on her with one of the girls. Depressingly
unimaginative.

The endings of the two films are again worth comparing. The original
ends with a striking but subtle twist. The ringing of the phone as the
camera slowly zooms away from the attic window provided a genuinely
"black" ending, signifying the death of everyone in the house even as
we see a policeman guarding the front door. The new film has the
predictable - "s/he's not really dead - look behind you" - moment. And
then it all just ends, as if the film-makers knew that by this time no
one in the audience would really care anyway.

For a movie that sends you to bed over Christmas locking your doors and
shivering at the creaky sounds coming from upstairs, settle down with
some sherry and mince pies with the DVD of the original Black
Christmas.
