
I was really excited for this film. Betsy Palmer and Pat Hingle back on
a movie screen? The lovely Emmanuelle Chriqui in a lead role? And then
I sat in the theater on 11th street and 2nd avenue in New York City. I
was alone...literally, in the movie theater. The film had opened only
the night before. The movie is poor. Technically poor to boot. I'm
talking about the kind of poor where some shots are even out of focus.
Scenes don't cut together well. Bad sound recording too. Sometimes,
they seem to cut to a reaction shot just so they could poorly dub over
the other actor's line in post production. Were they changing the
script? Was the acting and directing so off the mark it rendered the
film confusing in spots and they tried to clear it up with added lines?
The sound mix (i know I keep harping) is crude and seems unfinished,
poorly mixing songs over montages and transitions. Student films have
this problem. These guys should know better. Speaking of these guys,
there's the lead actor. Who is this guy? Who would offer him this lead
role? I've just learned that this film was his project. That would
explain a lot. A vanity project. I honestly don't think anyone else
would ever cast him. As an actor, he's terrible. He comes across like
he believes he's way more charismatic and charming than he his. It's
embarrassing. And, not to a total ass, he's got one helluva speech
impediment that needs tending to before writing himself another lead
role. Didn't anyone warn him away from casting himself?

Betsy and Pat deserve better. Film-making is hard. Not everyone can do
it well. Over-reaching ambition, take heed!
<|_=00=_|>
I recently went into a blockbuster looking for a movie to rent. The
girl working at the counter would sometimes recommend movies to me if I
couldn't decided. She suggested a movie titled WALTZING ANNA. She said
it is a small independent film but it seems to be catching interest. So
I rented it. I must say I thought that this was one of the best movies
I have seen in a long time. It was a funny emotional film filled with
great performances. The 2 leads Emmanuelle Chriqui and Robert Capelli
Jr did a wonderful job. Emmanuelle gave a strong performance as a nurse
who worked in the nursing home and Robert Capelli Jr. displayed the
range and emotion of a solid leading man, giving an unyielding
performance. Rounding out the cast was Pat Hingle, who's performance of
a broken down man living in the home brought me to tears. It is an inde
film so the quality is not as good as a 100 million dollar budget film,
but its heart is in the right place and accomplishes to do what movies
should do, entertain.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw the film, and it had its ups and downs...It was a very
predictable, but extremely cute film. There were some technical
problems, but overall the film moved nicely. If you like feel good
movies about the elderly, then I would recommend this film. The
supporting cast was hands down the best part of the film, all of the
older actors really pulled out the audience's emotion...Pat Hingle
really did an amazing job portraying the feisty old man in the nursing
home who kept trying to escape. The topic of corrupt nursing homes is
one that should be touched upon more in contemporary media and film
making. Overall, I enjoyed the film for what it was: a low to medium
budget independent film with a nice heartwarming story that the film
makers seem to have cared greatly about.
<|_=00=_|>
While following the tales of local filmmakers, its usually fun to find
Jersey films in Jersey theaters. Not this time. I read the "user
comments" that have preceded mine and I noticed something odd. The
positive reviews all came before the movie opened. Were these
privileged viewers part of the "premiere" screening. If so, its likely
they were part of the crowd that made this misfire. This film was
average at best because of the fantastic, underused supporting cast.
The always real Pat Hingle, the subtle Betsy Palmer, the hilarious
Grant Shaud, the gorgeous and steady Emmanuelle Chriqui, the rock
Marcella Lowery...and the list goes on. You could see the editors
trying desperately to hide the blemish - Robert Capelli, Jr. They would
obviously cut away from him often, leave him out of focus, dub his
lines. Nothing worked. I notice this guy's done 3 movies in which he is
the lead! I also notice he is either the producer or director on all of
those films. Coincidence? He's either really wealthy, or a really good
salesman. Give him credit for continuing to try. I admit I'm jealous.
I'd love to have others financing my quest for fame. Hey, don't take
our word for it-Check out Village Voice, Daily News, NY Post,
Cinematical, etc. Can they all be wrong?
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a sneak preview of WALTZING ANNA and I truly feel this was one of
the most enjoyable films I have ever seen. It was a breath of fresh air
compared to what the studios are putting out. I can't remember the last
time I cried in a theater and was so touched by a motion picture. I was
moved by every performance and cared for every character. Robert
Capelli Jr and Emmanuelle Chriqui, who co-star in the film, had
excellent chemistry. The give and take between the two reminded me
Tracey and Hapburn of years past. Pat Hingle, who plays a resident at
the Nursing Home, gives a performance of a lifetime. He should be
nominated for a Best Supporting Oscar.

WALTZING ANNA, a heartwarming tale of a doctor who is sent to an old
age home to work on his bedside manner, was a true delight. The first
half of the movie was light hearted and touches on subjects that we
deal with on the surface. But the second half was the pay off. Midway
through you are captivated by the story line and find yourself caring
for every character. The subject manner was deep and emotionally
driven. The payoff was truly honorable. I found myself walking away
from the theater feeling better than I ever felt when exiting the film
. I am glad to see filmmakers touching on topics that deal with elderly
care. It sounds clich√© but you'll laugh, you'll cry, and walk away with
a smile on your face. It was a beautiful movie and hope it gets the
attention it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
First things: I am one of the last people to comment on this movie, but
i also was the one who put up a plot summary and synopsis so that other
people can get an idea of the story. All of the previous slams on
technical terms are basically true. This is not a finished picture like
a Sandler, Ferrell, or Scheider flick. I don't waste my time on those
guys. This is a story movie first, and an acting/directing movie
second. There are no guns or car chases, and it starts off somewhat
slowly. This is a story about a tired old man who loves a woman back to
life, and a greedy Harvard doctor who falls from glory and needs to
re-order his priorities. It also has some nice piano music in the
soundtrack, and as mentioned, a good supporting cast. Yeah, it's a love
it/hate it movie. You'll just have to find out for yourself. All I can
say is that it keeps showing up enough on my channel guide that someone
else somewhere believes in it enough to program it.
<|_=00=_|>
I stumbled on this film while flipping through channels and when I saw
Betsy Palmer's name I was interested. The interest ended when I began
watching it. The script is awful, the lead actor, terrible, and a
complete waste of the talents of Betsy Palmer, Pat Hingle, George
Morfogen, and the very talented Emmanuelle Chriqui. Robert Capelli Jr.
who stars and wrote the script really needs to think about another line
of work. His acting skills are terrible and he suffers from a speech
impediment that is very jarring. The dialog is forced and the script is
very poorly written. They could have at least done some research on
what long-term care facilities really are like. I didn't believe the
doctors were doctors, or the nurses were nurses. There was not even
care to to the set dressing. There is a hallway with crumbling wall
over the floor, and no matter how many shots it is used in it is never
cleaned up, despite one scene when you can see a housekeeping person
cleaning the floor! But the worst thing is that the storyline is so
contrived and unbelievable. Please Mr. Robert Capelli Jr. don't write
or appear in any more movies!
<|_=00=_|>
WALTZING ANNA is a breath of fresh air about a subject that goes
largely ignored by not only the the film industry but society in
general: the plight of the elderly who are left to languish in corrupt
nursing homes. While this may not be the finest script ever produced,
it has a strong purpose and wonderful veteran actors to flesh out the
plot and make it both charming and poignant. Beautiful Betsy Palmer and
the marvelous, versatile Pat Hingle as two residents who keep a secret
from the home administrator are absolutely the heart and soul of the
movie. Their performance had me in tears a number of times. The film's
resolution is terrific--truly a "bravo" moment. 

I think a lot of reviewers here seemed to miss the credits where Robert
Capelli dedicated the film to his grandfather, who inspired this
project. One idiot called it a "vanity" film. I call it a labor of
love. My grandmother died in a nursing home that employed the horrific
practices of sedating the elderly in order to hasten their demise (she
died three days after she was admitted). This film was made to
memorialize people like her who didn't get the chance to be rescued
from the misery and the abuse one finds in most nursing homes. 

WALTZING ANNA should wake people up to the fact that a nursing home can
be an active, useful, cheerful residence for living, rather than a
corrupt, smelly, dreary place where old people are dropped off to die
or be killed by money-hungry administrators. Palmer and Hingle subtly
but effectively prove to that true love can come at any age, to the
elderly as well as to dewy-eyed youngsters. I applaud Capelli for
making this film. Again: Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
It seems Mr Capelli is the lead because he is banking the project. He
is perhaps the worst actor living today and I have been unable to find
anything about him other than he's from Hobokon and becomes an
executive producer out of nowhere. Mob money? who knows? The fact is
the movie is really bad and for the most part because of him. I rented
the "film" due to the fact that Emmanuelle Chriqui was in it. She's one
of the most beautiful actresses working today and generally good in
everything she's in - with what she has to work with here she's OK.
Artie Lange, in his brief appearance, is good and his acting skills
appear godlike compared to the clownish Capelli.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd like to support indie filmmakers as much as the next film fan, but
let's be honest please. The Good: Great supporting cast - Pat Hingle,
Betsy Palmer, Emmanuelle Chriqui, George Morfogen, etc. The Bad:
Average story, a formula weeper, underdeveloped "romance", Not enough
Artie Lange. The Ugly: A Harvard Doctor that can't pronounce
"Alzheimer's." Whose fault is this? I can't believe with 2 directors,
they could both let that slide. They are as much to blame as the
"star". "Convincing" is hardly the word I'd use to describe this
performance. It was a nice try, I bet they all cared deeply about this
serious subject, but when the lead can't lead, or even follow, he
should stay out of the way. 4, out of ten, for effort.
