
And I mean the actual definition of "literally." I was lucky enough to
catch an advanced screening and I wish I could see it 100 more times.

It's hilarious. It's offensive. It's actually pretty smart as well.
Sacha Cohen is so ridiculously consistent and never seems to break
character, even when he turns an entire rodeo against him in less than
5 minutes.

I really don't want to speak anymore of the film, because part of the
beauty of it is being surprised by what you see on the screen. I only
hope they don't edit the hell out of it, because it really was a joy to
see as it was.
<|_=00=_|>
Sacha Baron Cohen comes to America in the guise of Borat Sagdiyev and
wreaks his own brand of Kazakhi havoc in this very very funny film.

In our age of uber-political correctness, "Borat" comes sweeping
through like a brisk and refreshing wind, completely bounding over
every cultural taboo we've erected around ourselves. Thus, no one is
safe: Borat takes on Jews, blacks, gays, feminists, middle-Americans,
religious fanatics, frat boys. The only weapon against the bumbling
Borat is a sense of humour, which this movie shows most Americans
painfully lack. Indeed, if there is any message to be had from "Borat"
(and I'm not sure there is much of one, beyond its fascinating cultural
experiments), it's that everyone needs to lighten up and not take
themselves so seriously.

The image of Americans projected in this film varies from the
heartwarming to the downright frightening. New Yorkers threaten Borat
with physical violence when he approaches them on a subway. Feminists
walk out on him when they find his views on women too much to tolerate.
Folks out in the heartland commiserate with him over his hatred of gays
and Jews; a gun shop owner even helps him pick out the best weapon for
shooting Jewish people. A sweet Jewish couple give him a place to
sleep, and bring him a homey meal (that is, before they turn into
invading cockroaches). A group of manic Pentecosts help him find Jesus.
An RV full of frat boys make complete asses of themselves by espousing
their hopelessly ill-informed views on minorities in our country and
the need to revert to slavery. The majority of people treat Borat in
the condescending way of those who want to think of themselves as being
culturally aware without really knowing anything at all about other
cultures. These people become rude the second Borat offends their sense
of propriety. On the other hand, the disenfranchised of America greet
Borat with open arms, and we see a group of gays and a group of blacks
interacting with him as if no cultural boundaries existed at all. The
film's sweetest (and most unexpectedly so) moments come from Borat's
befriending of a black prostitute.

Of course, this is a carefully crafted work of fiction, and Cohen only
lets his audience see what he wants them to see. I would probably react
much the same as many of the people in this film if this crazy-looking
and sounding man appeared out of nowhere and began to antagonize me.
But the movie does make Americans look like a bunch of awfully
self-important, uptight stiffs, and I've been to enough places in this
country and met enough people to realize that the way events play out
in this film (even if they are manipulated or staged) probably come
very close to the real thing.

Thank God for movies like "Borat." If nothing else, they remind us that
our cultural boundaries only matter as much as we let them, and that
all of the fears that govern political correctness are mostly
ungrounded. After all, virtually every person in this film was offended
at one point or another, and as far as I can tell, all of them lived to
tell about it.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
Borat proves to be the Python of our generation. 

I say this as a die-hard Monty Python fan  not because the humour is
on the same level or follows the same guidelines (in fact, the common
ground is here is that it follows no guidelines)  but because both
comedy teams mask their sketches in a feature film, passing them off as
a story when it becomes glaringly clear that the latter is an elaborate
pretext under which to have outrageous, absurdist and side-splittingly
fun in a series of genius gags.

Yet for all of Borat's subsequent disorganisation and warped narrative,
we are first served a gorgeously condensed introduction to our
character in his village in Kazakhstan. This segment was possibly the
biggest crowd-pleaser in my theatre and perhaps rightly so, for I would
call it the film's goldmine in terms of sheer laugh-out-loud humour.
Here we are introduced to Borat's sister ("She is number-four
prostitute in whole of Kazakhstan."), whom he kisses on the mouth, his
main interests (ping-pong, sunbathing and "watch ladies make toilet")
as well as a wide variety of hilarious native Kazakhs. Undoubtedly the
success of the introduction stems from a combination of novelty and a
culture shock.

Once the sprawling surge of Kazakhstani culture subsides, Borat flies
to New York City to make a movie-film about the glorious US and A. The
booming Russian ethnic score melts into Harry Nilsson's "Everybody's
Talking' At Me" and the film gets ambitious: it spoofs Jon Voight's
incongruous cowboy character walking down Manhattan in Midnight Cowboy
(1969). This I found a pleasant surprise, but the referential spoofs
end here and the rest is all Sascha Baron Cohen  and we couldn't be
happier.

The second half of Borat is arguably less compelling. It is hard to
tell why, for the humour remains consistently good and there is an
almost exponential stupidity with our Borat character as the sets out
to go to California to marry Pamela Anderson. I would not go as far as
to say the novelty "wears off", but we are a little more settled now
and Borat has found his safe footing. Next, however, the film totally
floors whatever safeness you may have with one of the most unspeakably
graphic hotel room scenes I have ever seen. I won't give anything away,
but rest assured that some viewers (*males*) will watch in horrified
silence while others will literally cramp up from laughing so
violently. I belong more to the latter category.

As Borat travels through America, there is a wealth of juxtapositions
to be found when he interacts with the people  members of the white
house, television broadcasters, etiquette teachers, Christian
fundamentalists and Jews  all offers layered hilarity and a consistent
cloud of laughter kept hovering in the air. Sadly, it was not always
directed toward Borat (but most of the time) but toward some truly
idiotic hick Americans. When I was informed the film used many candid
takes, I can only hope the unreasonably creepy Jesus convention was
*not* one of them.

In conclusion, "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit
Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan (2006)" is a towering comedy achievement.
It is apparent that Sascha Baron Cohen has done something truly cool
here and has created an anti-semitic, misogynist and bigoted character
that aptly embodies all racy taboos. As an actor he is unmistakably
brave and uninhibited, which makes it easy for the film to lose itself
in a tornado of gags, spoofs, bizarre one-liners and graphic jokes. The
most fun I've had in a theatre since...forever!!!

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is more deep than it appears to the general crowd expecting
a laugh on a Sunday. Most people will go to watch it as a funny movie,
but it is not a funny movie in that sense. It is a Satire about how
people in many parts of the world still feel about homosexuality,
equality of women, need for a woman's consent to a marriage,
prostitution as a profession, racism, and so on. It also portrays how
even some westerners feel about religion and Jesus. The scene may
seriously bother you if you are too much into Jesus (It is supposed to
bother you, if you really get it).

People who say this movie is disgusting, just do not get it at all! If
this is disgusting, then Charles Chaplin's "The Great Dictator" was
disgusting, "because it glorified Adolf Hitler, and expressed hatred
against the Jews".

If you want to feel sad about how stupid, clumsy and ignorant still
many people are in the corners of the world, you should watch this
movie to open your eyes. But if you are too classy to understand how
people live, think and get used to sufferings in backward countries,
you may call it "disgusting". 

Watch it with a true open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I go on and recommend EVERYONE to see this movie I want to
remind you of one thing. This movie is satire and if you don't
understand that then there's absolutely no point in watching.

Much like Spike Lee's "Bamboozled" it is made very clear that this
movie is a satirical piece. Their lampooning, spoofing, however you
want to put it there just kidding around take that in account before
you go mad because Borat makes jibes at women and Jews.

Cohen has once again had me in tears with laughter as he examines the
American way of life. If you haven't seen any of Cohen's TV material
then you will definitely be shocked by what you see.

Cohen manages to create genuine laugh out loud moments. Yes they are
often at the expense of others but so what?!? No one was harmed during
the making of this movie and if they didn't want to be involved they
didn't have to sign the release forms. But beyond the laughter Cohen
does hit a political nerve whether you like it or not. The footage of a
Texan talking about Gays and immigrants is both humorous and extremely
alarming. As is the conversation between three frat boys (who clearly
have the social intelligence of a two year old combined). It's a stark
realisation to see the backwards world we are still living in.

If satire eludes you then this movie isn't for you but if you can sit
back, relax and really take in whats going on and have the cop on to
realise that Cohen isn't Borat (Cohen comes from a strict Jewish
background) then you will be able to take this movie at face value.

Remember ITS SATIRE! Rent it now and just sit back and enjoy the ride!
<|_=00=_|>
From all the hype I was expecting an hilarious comedic masterpiece.
Turned out to be Latka from Taxi does Jackass. Like all bad "comedy" or
satire it drops to the lowest level, i.e crude sexual innuendo,
bathroom humor, foul language, cheap laughs at the expense of others.
There's some laughs in this, but they are strained and infrequent.This
could have been a much better movie, but save for the few humorous
moments, it relies on making fools of unsuspecting people for most of
its laughs. This is its main flaw, and I found it uncomfortable to
watch.Save your money. There's also nothing really original here. This
is a DVD movie, and only when there's nothing else to rent....
<|_=00=_|>
Many people have practically no idea who Sacha Baren Cohen is, besides
his small role as the gay French Nascar driver in 'Talladega Nights'.
This is because the show he had, Da Ali G Show, was a very unpopular
show. Mainly because it was on HBO and late hours of the night.
Unfortunately, many people never watched the show not because they
didn't like it, but because they didn't know it existed. Da Ali G Show
was an incredibly original variety/reality show featuring Cohen in
three roles including Borat (whom is the main character of the movie).
Cohen, posing as these different characters would interview politicians
and such who were unaware the interview was a joke. The reactions Cohen
would get out of people including one politician telling him to 'go
f*ck himself', were priceless. Going into the one-month early
sneak-preview of 'Borat', I was expecting a funny movie, but was
skeptical on how funny the movie would be. Usually film adaptations of
short five minute skits don't work so well, examples include
'Superstar', 'Night at the Roxbury', 'The Ladies Man' and 'Coneheads'.
All are pretty much loser movies with a few funny scenes but not much
more. However, when the ending credits started to roll and I walked out
of the 'Borat' screening I was sore from laughing so hard. To be
honest, I never laughed so hard during a movie in my entire life.

There is not much I can tell you about this without spoiling it for
you. Basically the plot is a Kazakhstan news reporter taking a trip to
the United States to win the love of Baywatch's Pamela Andersen, whom
he thinks is a virgin. HA! All I will tell you is that Borat travels
across the country from New York to L.A. doing such crazy stunts as
taking a dump in front of the Trump Towers, publicly masturbating in
front of a NYC Victoria's Secret store, singing an Anti-American
Kazakhstan National Anthem at a rodeo in Nebraska, buying weapons to
protect himself against 'the jews' (whom he believes were responsible
for 9/11 Terror attacks) and trying to kiss just about every guy he
sees, which brings about homophobia in many of the real people featured
in the movie who don't know it's a movie. Some may call 'Borat' the
funniest film ever made, and that's not and understatement.'Borat' is
without a doubt one of the most original and ingenious comedy in the
last three years, and maybe, just maybe, the funniest film ever made.
Grade: A- (screened at Harkins Arrowhead 18, Glendale, AZ, 9/04/06)
<|_=00=_|>
In terms of pure unadulterated cringe-worthiness, this film just about
outshines them all. It is brilliant, horrific, hilarious, sad,
outrageous, revealing, and incredibly clever. It shows up people's
narrow-mindedness, their racism, their inability to accept or
understand different cultures. It makes me scared for the future of the
world, and delighted that someone actually sees most people for what
they really are - blinkered and uneducated.

Go and rent it, and enjoy. It will make you want to be a better person,
make you laugh until you almost cry, and undoubtedly make you hide
behind a cushion at times.

Sacha Baron-Cohen is a genius. A definite 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I, too, caught this early screening in Marina Del Rey. Thought the film
was great... the ending could have had more kick to it and been a bit
more drawn out, but I was laughing so hard throughout that I barely
noticed. Unlike the other comments I read, the nude scenes and the
naked wrestling repulsed me. But there were so many other scenes where
I felt like I was going to pass out from the pure ridiculousness of it
all. Again, Cohen cleverly draws out the ignorance of so many people
from the "U.S. and A." and we're left shocked, humbled, more aware, and
having stomach pains from the hilarity of how he does it. He again
proves what people will do for the camera and how people's true colors
shine when they meet someone with more radical beliefs than their own.
I left the theater saying "wow wow wee waaaaa"!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The laughter is genuine even when I was appalled at what I was laughing
at. Is Sacha Baron Cohen a genius of sorts or the biggest smart ass to
hit the screens in a long, very long time? He makes John Waters appear
like an (old) Disney product. The nastiness works because it is
immediately recognizable and his targets live next door if not with me
between my four walls. It is a social-horror-documentary. The three
guys talking about women between beer and beer was so horribly real
that I wanted to leave the theater laughing and screaming at the same
time. Borat is not tender about his own background either. He is an
equal opportunity offender if I ever saw one. The world is a cesspool
and nobody is immune. Even his innocence is corrupt. I've been
considering seeing it again, as the whole thing in one single
disgusting lump was too much to take but I'm not sure I want to. I'll
wait for the DVD where I'll be able to select and discard. My only
question is now, what will Sacha Baron Cohen do for an encore.
