
I really wanted this movie to be good. Really. I think Jessica Alba is
an extremely talented actress, and I had high hopes for this movie. J
horror remake, interesting premise, Jessica Alba...sounds good so far. 

But this movie left me disappointed in when I saw it last night. The
movie relies on cheap thrills that aren't frightening to the mature
moviegoer. I should have expected this, as it was rated PG-13, but the
theatre full of screaming 11 year olds at every jump was quite
irritating. 

When it was all over, The Eye left me wanting more. The only thinking
and mystery in the movie is done for you and the "science-talk" from
Alba seems unrealistic. It relies on loud noises and horror movie
clichés at every turn. The Eye is a definite popcorn movie. It may be
entertaining for younger viewers, but if you want a deeper and more
engaging story, look elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
If you watch this movie, be aware that Gin-Gwai (The Eye)came first.
There have even been two sequels. The third one was called The Eye 10
as a marketing ploy by the US director. It is truly awful, so avoid it
like the plague.

That being said, the thing that both US influenced versions have are a
total lack of creativity, suspense, or originality. It is a pity that
Ms. Alba chose this role, as it was merely a shell of the original
film. Every scene was reproduced in a typical US-dumbed down format,
with typical cheap Friday the 13th scares thrown in. This version
ironically lost sight of the original vision of the Pang Brother's
classic. Instead, they change key plot elements to "add to" the
suspense, IE: American audiences can't think, so we have to hold up a
sign that says "SCREAM".

Do yourself and others a favor and rent, or even better buy a copy of
the original. You will not be disappointed. Sadly, the same cannot be
said for yet another cheap, unimaginative, 80's camp pile of garbage
rip-off in the mold of The Grudge, Hide and Seek, and Dark Water. Don't
even waste your time downloading this tripe.
<|_=00=_|>
The Eye (2008) I knew going into the theater that this would be a bit
scary. OK, maybe traumatizing. I had a LASIK procedure done a couple of
years ago, and although I wasn't blind beforehand, I did have pretty
bad eyesight. I know a bit about the trepidation - perhaps even
outright terror - one feels before undergoing an operation on one's
eyeballs. I still get a little skeeved when I see a closeup of eyes,
come to think of it.

Jessica Alba plays Sydney, a blind concert violinist who has a double
corneal transplant, and of course things go wrong. Not with the surgery
itself, but with the psychological aftermath - she sees dead people.
And dead things. And undead. And so on; it looks like she's tapped into
a spiritual world, or something. No one else can see what she's seeing,
which is par for the course in movieland, but all of the demons and
smoke and fire and other sfx seem extremely, utterly, real to Sydney.

Alba is excellent, showing that she has more than just two (or three)
talents to show the world. Her Sydney is appealing in her
vulnerability; Alba, a beautiful young woman, manages to make you feel
as if her character could, indeed, live in your world: less glitzy
starlet, more three-dimensional person. Of course, she's still a
knockout, and she IS a supremely talented musician, and she DOES live
in a super-posh apartment in a high rise, but still. Alba shows
wonderful range, from tender to fragile, without giving up any
sincerity. The movie hinges on her ability to sell the audience on her
character's Everywoman (to a point) status, and I think she delivers.

Some of you may be thinking you've already seen this movie before, when
it was called Blink. In Blink, Madeline Stowe played a young woman who
lost her sight as a child (as did Sydney) and then grew up to be a
talented violinist; after a new eye operation temporarily restores some
sight, she sees things. Just like Sydney. Huh. Still, this isn't a redo
of Blink, it's a remake of a Chinese film called Gin gwai. Asian films
have made the rounds of Hollywood in recent years (The Ring, The
Grudge, Dark Water), and although the remakes usually don't have the
subversive bite of their original counterparts, some of them hold up
rather well when inundated with high-tech CGI. The Eye does use special
effects, but it uses them - pardon me - to great effect; you're not
overwhelmed with attention-grabbing CGI.

The biggest debit in the movie is the love interest, Sydney's doctor,
Paul (Alessandro Nivola), who seems dull and unimportant, although his
believing in and trusting Sydney is a linchpin for moving the plot. He
just seems vacant and stiff, hardly a commendation of Nivola's acting
abilities. (Think of a younger Dylan McDermott.) On the other hand, a
good counterbalance to Nivola is Parker Posey as Sydney's concerned
sister, who, although she doesn't immediately buy into Sydney's
rantings, does empathize and attempt to understand a bit better than
the hunky doctor.

Overall, The Eye is a tense, shudder-filled movie that manages to dress
up a recycled plot with dead-on performances and evocative
cinematography.
<|_=00=_|>
In this era of stem cell research, where genetic re-programming results
in human heart cells beating in a Petrie dish, perhaps The Eye's
premise of cellular memory is not so far-fetched. Blinded during a
childhood accident, gorgeous and gifted first violinist Sydney Wells
(Jessica Alba) undergoes a corneal transplant. Previously confident in
the dark, sweet Sydney's secure world becomes terrifying when she finds
she can see not only dead people, but the prophetic visions of the
former owner of her newly restored vision.

Everyone around her thinks she's going mad, from her unsympathetic
maestro to her concerned sister Helen (played poorly by an underused
and under directed Parker Posey) to her conflicted doctor in an
underwritten and choppy character arc. (Is Alessandro Nivola playing an
eye doctor or a psychoanalyst? Is he a staunch professional or driven
by love to cross the line?) Sydney feels compelled to decipher her
visions, sensing that if she does, the troubled spirit of the original
donor may finally find peace.

Directorial flaws aside, The Eye's strengths lie in its superb visuals,
effective scares and, above all, the impressive and convincing
performance of its leading lady. Appearing in virtually every scene,
Alba has you blinking tears when her eyes sting and second-guessing
your own eyes when you see what she sees.

A remake of the Pang Brothers 2002 Hong Kong hit Gin gwai, The Eye is
actually a Hollywood rip-off, traversing the familiar territory of
recent thriller Blink, 1978's Eyes of Laura Mars and even Roger
Corman's 1963 horror pic X: The Man With X-Ray Eyes.

The Eye has satisfying echoes of J horror plus ghost stories such as
The Sixth Sense and The Others.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so it isn't the best horror movie ever made, but it also isn't the
worst.

The premise is reasonable (for a horror) and despite a few plot holes
the film manages to build the suspense. Alba's acting is not exactly
award winning, but she does enough to avoid you disbelieving the
character.

The biggest gripe I have is that the ending is a bit of an anticlimax.
After the build up (I think there should have been a bit more with the
apartment residents) it just fizzled out.

Overall I wouldn't rush out to buy the DVD, but if there isn't anything
else on, you could do worse.
<|_=00=_|>
With virtually every successful Asian horror movie of the last few
years having already been remade by Hollywood, it was only a matter of
time before Gin gwai (AKA The Eye) got the treatment, despite the
original not really being all that great (I found it fairly
entertaining, but unexceptionalmy rating: 6/10).

Jessica Alba plays Sydney Wells, a blind violinist who receives a
cornea transplant only to discover that her new set of peepers allow
her to see much more than she had originally bargained for: Sydney can
see dead people!! Aided by her doctor, she attempts to unravel the
terrible secret behind her scary supernatural power.

Directed by David Moreau and Xavier Palud, The Eye is a totally
unnecessary and dreary remake that copies parts of original verbatim,
alters scenes that should have been left well alone (the creepy cafe
meat-licking scene has gone, and the downbeat ending has been swapped
for a typical Hollywood crowd pleaser), and totally botches what should
be the scariest bit of the whole film (the lift scene is VERY
disappointing).

Take my advice: If you've already seen Gin gwai, then stay away from
The Eye.
<|_=00=_|>
The Eye (2002) is an excellent horror film.That movie had a great
atmosphere,an excellent performance from the main actress,some creepy
moments which produced me some jumps and a disturbing but perfect
ending.And the remake of The Eye lacks of all that important
elements.If I have to summarize this movie in a few words,I would
say:another crappy remake.This remakes MUST be stopped.This film does
not have a good atmosphere,Jessica Alba does not show any of
credibility on her role and the ''scary'' moments produced on me
unintentional laughs.But,the worst element from this movie is that they
changed the brilliant ending from the original film for a pathetic
one.Alessandro Nivola is the only one of the cast who shows some
enthusiasm and he added some points to this poor movie.Maybe,the people
who did not see the original movie will appreciate the film
more.But,for me,The Eye (2008) is a crappy movie with cheap
thrills.Like I said before,these remakes MUST be stopped.
<|_=00=_|>
The infinite monkey theorem states that a monkey hitting keys at random
on a typewriter for an infinite amount of time will eventually produce
the works of Shakespeare. Coincidently, this same theory applies to the
onslaught of Asian horror remakes that is stomping Hollywood into
submission. If enough of these films are remade, then eventually one
will be acceptable, and alas it has happened.

The Eye, starring Jessica Alba is directed by two relative first timers
by the names of David Moreau and Xavier Palud, and they can certainly
create a film that boasts certain elements of stylish direction.
Unfortunately, along with the good, it seems that all of this style of
remake fear deviation from a backbone template. Not to give anything
away to those who are not familiar with Asian horror remakes, but one
element that is consistent is that the basis of all the evil happenings
is from a spirit looking for salvation of some sort. While The Eye,
does choose to spin this cliché slightly, it is afraid to go all the
way.

Suffering from total blindness after a childhood accident, young beauty
Sydney Wells (Alba) is given a chance at an eye transplant that will
allow her to see for the first time in decades. Not surprisingly, she
begins to see things that ought not to be. Aided by an appointed
shrink, played by Alessandro Nivola, they confront the visions and try
to track the donor eyes back to their sinister source. This journey is
bounds more intelligent then the average horror story, and the standard
for dumb decisions is cleverly hidden by the fact that Sydney is fully
or partially blind for most of the film. This presents a cushion of
forgives per se, as her lack of sight can lead her into frightening
situations, without appearing ignorant.

And there are certainly some frightening "boo" moments; uniquely
accentuated by a well used pallet of sound. There are also exactly
three expertly executed scenes, worthy of recognition. The first is a
scene in which a blurry eyed Sydney looks into the mirror for the first
time with creepy consequences; the second features a member of the
un-dead accompanying her in an elevator and the third takes the form of
an intervention between a mother who has recently lost her son. If The
Eye had presented more scenes of this Claiborne, it certainly could
have been something special. Instead, the ending descends into the
mediocrity, which at first seemed more then acceptable, but took off
into a sixth sense meets final destination action spin off; which
although still thrilling, did not fit the tone and atmosphere of the
former acts. The "blurry vision" that is used early on with some skill,
is overused by the end, the flashbacks replace the more effective quick
cutbacks and it simply does not hold onto its success.

This is however Alba's best performance, and although not saying much,
this shows there is hope for her future acting career. While more films
like The Eye would be welcome, I think it better to forfeit the Asian
remakes all together, then to wait for the monkey's second draft.

Read all my reviews at: http://www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer made it seem so terrifying,but watching the movie was an
eye bleeder.There was no boo factor anywhere,because you saw it
coming.This is basically a total hash of The Sixth Sense and Final
Destiantion,and the Japanese original looks so much better (I didn't
see it yet,but I should).

Plot:Sydney Wells is a happy-go lucky violinist,who is calm,cool and
collected.She has been blind since she was five,due to a firecracker
accident.When she got a cornea transplant,everything is blurry,and she
sees shadows and ghosts taking people away.Now she has to find out who
her donor is and why this is happening.

The plot is interesting though,but the suspense is rarely there,unless
you are easily scared.The build up to the end is nice,but there is so
much unnecessary stuff in it.The only cool scene was the climatic
ending on the boarder.

Overall,this move had so much potential but didn't pull all the way
through.

Rating ***/***** Overall:4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers in post: 

I was so bored. Nothing happens in this movie until the last ten
minutes. You get a few random ghost sightings, but nothing happens with
them at all. Most of the movie is made up of really boring scenes where
nothing happens. You keep waiting for something real to happen, and it
just never does. Too many nightmare shots.

This movie is a lot like Sixth Sense, only nowhere near as well done.
It also feels like it was trying to copy some elements from Ghost.

I really couldn't wait for it to be over. It felt like just another bad
remake of a Japanese film where they lost too much in the translation.

Wait for it to show up on cable. You're not missing much.
