
I just took my 11 year old daughter and 8 year old son to this movie
and I can't remember a movie where I laughed SO hard -- literal out
loud, deep bursts of laughter because this movie is hilarious. Granted
the story line is predictable but the ride is so extremely enjoyable it
doesn't matter that you know how it's going to end. The actors' comedic
senses of timing were impeccable. The actors were perfectly cast. My
children mentioned that Amanda Bynes seems to be the last of the young
women actresses who aren't ruining their lives. She is so refreshing.
My children said this is now their favorite movie of 2006. Our money
was well spent on this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie today (opened yesterday here) and was simply
delighted.

I saw a review that said something to the effect that the reviewer
thought this would be just another teen movie, but then found it was
based on Shakespeare's Twelfth Night ... and then started trying to
justify liking this flick on Shakespearean grounds. I really think this
is going way overboard: the only connections I could see with Twelfth
Night are (a) the basic conceit of a girl masquerading as a man; (b)
the extensive male-female humor arising out of that basic conceit; and
(c) some of the names (including Viola & Duke).

Aside from those names, the thematic commonalties (a & b) are really
great themes for any script, and this movie's script is no exception.
Beyond that, though, this really is a simply delightful and very
contemporary/traditional teen flick. And that's a perfectly legit genre
even if highbrows have to find an excuse to like it ... like alluding
to Shakespeare.

The movie is bright, fast-paced, emotive, stylized, funny ... full of
teen hormones and teen humor and male/female humor suitable for all
ages. And that's really the best part IMHO: really just about every
male stereotype and every female stereotype is depicted in roundly
appealing over-the-top fun. Those stereotypes are parodied relentlessly
but affectionately, with such a complexity of invention that I'm still
a little bewildered ... but really don't feel at all disappointed in
that regard, it's not that kind of a movie: things come at you fast and
fun and you get a laugh and a groan and then move on to the next
split-second happening.

Amanda Bynes really is just delightful as Viola / Sebastian; Channing
Tatum makes a wonderful Duke; David Cross does a wonderfully over the
top Principal Gold. All of the acting and characterizations were fine
and on target. Cinematography was excellent.

Wonderful entertainment from beginning to end ... check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
I got a chance to see this movie at an early screening in Brea and I
have been crazy for it ever since. The film is based on Shakespeare's
Twelfth Night which I have read and loved and seen on stage a few times
so I certainly liked the references. But whether you like Shakespeare
or not it won't matter - the movie stands on it's on. It is super
funny, witty and charming. Amanda Bynes is hilarious and so was David
Cross. Actually the whole cast is great - I just happen to be a huge
David Cross fanatic. The cast is hot and the soundtrack kicks lots of
cool bands and a few I hadn't heard before but I know they have a CD
coming out so I will definitely buy it. Everyone in our audience
laughed from start to finish - all age groups. !!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Though I hate to admit it, Karen McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith have
scored again. "She's the Man" is a ridiculous but ultimately
entertaining teen movie which takes the gender-bending action of
Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night" and drops it in the middle of a
modern-day American boarding school. The premise should sound familiar
because screenwriters Lutz and Smith also penned "10 Things I Hate
About You," another twist on Shakespeare, starring the likes of Julia
Styles and Academy Award nominee Heath Ledger (before he was an Academy
Award nominee).

It's more of the same, of course, but seeing Shakespeare's work go
Hollywood, and, thus, be ripped to shreds, continues to amuse. "She's
the Man" also focuses on a decidedly less bitter heroine than the
shrew, Katarina, played in 1999 by a very stilted Styles. If that makes
the film less witty, who cares? Not half of this film's target
audience, who came mostly to see Channing Tatum with his shirt off.

Like Kat in "10 Things," Viola (Amanda Bynes) is a tomboy and a soccer
star on the women's team at Cornwall Prep. Her life is soccer, which
becomes a problem when her school cuts the women from the sports
program. Better than most of the boys, Viola wants to suit up with them
but is snubbed by both the coach and the team's captain  her
boyfriend. So it's "end of discussion  end of relationship." Viola
hatches a plan to pursue her sporting dreams at rival school Illyria,
where her twin brother has just enrolled. Twin brother, Sebastian, is
skipping off to England for two weeks and nobody at Illyria has ever
met him.

If you missed the set up, read "Twelfth Night." It's pretty obvious
what happens from here. Viola disguises herself as her brother and
moves into the dorms where she meets her roommate and fellow soccer
player Duke (Channing Tatum). She begins to gear up for Illyria's
season opener against Cornwall and has to navigate a complicated
love-triangle, in addition to other challenges like taking a shower
alongside her male teammates, without them finding out about her girl
parts.

In reality, nobody who looks like Bynes could get away with
impersonating a 17 year-old male. Viola is too pretty to be a boy; in
other words, dressed as her brother, she makes Orlando Bloom look like
a frost-bitten lumberjack. This fantasy aspect doesn't detract from the
film, though. Viola puts on her wig and fake sideburns and, suddenly,
she's the most socially awkward nerd-boy you've ever seen. Suspension
of disbelief works.

The Sebastian disguise doesn't have to be convincing. What matters is
that all the other characters are oblivious to facts that are obvious
to the audience. The laughs come from seeing Viola get away with a
ridiculous scam. In one scene, Duke and fake Sebastian hug each other,
but Viola slips out of character and gets a little too friendly. It's
not that homoeroticism or homophobia are inherently funny, it's the
knowledge that Duke is disturbed by being frisked by someone who is
actually a girl that makes us laugh.

Other than that, "She's the Man" offers audiences the simple pleasure
of Amanda Bynes who seems to be a natural in comedic roles. Her
Sebastian/Viola is definitely a caricature but it's a perfectly
illustrated one. From her mixed-up half southern, half Canadian drawl
(her misguided version of the typical teen boy cadence), to her crotch
grabbing and Eminem-like posturing, Bynes has a lot of fun and, as a
result, the jokes land.

It's a teen movie, so the ending is typical and cheesy. While sister
film "10 Things I Hate About You" had a wild feminist streak in it and
touched on somewhat weighty issues, such as the pressure to have sex,
"She's the Man" lacks a serious undercurrent. But this is probably a
good thing. "10 Things" was, at times, too earnest and moralizing.
"She's the Man" doesn't pretend to be more important than it is. It'll
earn a spot on the shelf, in between "Bend It Like Beckham" and
"Legally Blonde." (And, like Reese, maybe Bynes will win an Oscar in 10
years. Anything is possible  just look at how "Crash" won Best Film.)

Copyright (c) 2006 by Lauren Simpson
<|_=00=_|>
She's The Man was everything I wanted it to be and maybe even a little
more. I love the teen type "chick flick" films and I knew this one
would be great!! In the same vein as 10 Things I Hate About You (one of
my all time faves) She's The Man is a unique, well written, very well
performed comedy with some of the funniest lines, and physical comedy I
have seen in a long time. It's probably the funniest movie I've seen
this year (with the exception of the hilarious Pink Panther.) But She's
The Man is actually a more intellectual funny and most of the humor
relies on the witty script, "Three's Company" style story of mistaken
identities, and mixed messages, and the cast.

Amanda Bynes is a star!! Even since the days of the horribly campy (yet
strangely entertaining "The Amanda Show", she has shown a brilliant
talent for comedy. She's probably one of the most talented comediennes
out there. Her style of physical comedy, impersonations, and witty
dialect makes her hilarious. Previously her big screen debut (where she
was the star) was the rather hilarious and well made "What A Girl
Wants." If that wasn't her break out vehicle than She's The Man takes
care of that hands down. Bynes is really the ultimate girl next door.
It's a shame she doesn't do more big screen work because she could be
the next "It" girl. She is the All American, cute, down to earth,
bubbly teen (although she's twenty now) and whether or not she'll be
able to carry her talent and style over to being an adult actor will
remain to be seen. But for the purpose of this film she is perfect!!
She actually legitimately pulls off the rather outlandish plot of her
impersonating her twin brother and makes it believable. Not
entirely...but believable enough. Most of the script relies on the
comedy of her errors trying to be a guy but it's just hilarious, non
stop laughs. Channing Tatum redeems himself from his deplorable
performance in 2005's "Havoc" by plays Duke. He's the jock, the captain
of the soccer team, and eventually Bynes' object of affection,
unfortunately he's also Sebastian's room mate (who is Bynes.) He's a
good leading man, and the chemistry is perfect between them. Laura
Ramsey is Olivia, who happens to be attracted to Sebastian (who again
is Bynes.) She does good as well although her part is small and she
doesn't really effect the rest of the cast one way or another. James
Kirk is great in his small role as the real Sebastian. His resemblance
to Amanda Bynes is astonishing...they are absolutely believable as
twins and further more, from a distance you could understand someone
believing Bynes is Sebastian. The rest of the cast all fit in there
somewhere and their roles range from brief to more supporting but
essentially they are all supporting the story between Bynes and Tatum
but everyone is more or less supporting Bynes terrific performance. She
easily carries the film with no hesitations and makes it worth while.

This is one of those films that shows so much in the trailer and yet
it's not one of those films that when that part comes up it's not funny
anymore. The parts in the trailer that make you laugh are even more
hilarious in the actual film. Relative newcomer director Andy Fickman
does such an incredible job on this film. He weaves together a
potentially complicated storyline and makes it flow naturally and makes
everything fall together. The story which is loosely based off of
Shakespeares Twelfth Night but it's remarkable how much they managed to
translate over to this modern day film. It's seemingly completely off
the wall but more exact to the classic comedy than you'd think. There
isn't too much to say about a downside except that the last half hour
drags a little and also becomes a might predictable but it doesn't
change the hilarity of the first half of the film. Nonetheless you'll
be laughing to tears and it's one of the funniest films in the theater
right now hands down!!! 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was absolutely hilarious. I already knew it was
going to be a funny movie, but it was funnier than I expected. Sure
there were some lame jokes, but they cracked me up. I thought the
actors were going to turn out to be pretty bad, but the actors were
good in acting out this comedy. I have to give kudos to Amanda Bynes,
she looked surprisingly like her brother and pulled off an awesome
performance as a boy. As for the other actors, they were funny as well.
Of course there were moments where you yell at the screen "how can you
not tell?", but that's all part of the fun. In the end the plot turned
out pretty well. There's a happy ending, but what'd you expect. 

Overall,just hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
Now I would just like to say that I love this movie for what it is.
Namely, a smart and hilarious teen flick that is at its best when its
staying with "the funny", and completely sappy and or cheesy when it
attempts anything else. "She's the Man" had solid comedic acting from
Amanda. She has really grown as a comedian, and I look forward to
seeing her in future roles. The film also had enough pretty people to
make the setting nothing like any normal person's high school. I don't
know else I can say other than this movie made me laugh way too loud,
even for a movie theater, and I had to stifle my chocking laughter
numerous times with my coat. i highly recommend this movie to anyone in
need of a few laughs and some mindless dialog
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at a special screening. At first I thought the movie
would be like a typical Amanda Bynes movie, but I was wrong. The movie
is based on the Shakespeares book "The Twelth Night" This movie tells
the story of a girl who lives to play soccer. Well when the girls team
is cut she has to go to great lengths to get on the guys team at a
different school to get revenge on the egotistical guys team at her old
school. On her way she gets caught up in a long tangled web of love,
lies, and deception. This movie is this years Mean Girls. I think it
shows some great new actors abilities and there are defiantly some big
stars to be featured in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a great movie, however it is, as most movie highly
predictable. The greatest highlight of the movie of course is the star
character Amanda Bynes, who is absolutely gorgeous and hilarious. She
is one of very few people in this world who can use all 53 muscles in
her face to make the most strangest and gut-busting faces ever made.
It's good for the kids, and contains upper male nudity and suggestive
nudity towards the end. All in all, they did a good job updating an old
classic, and deserves to rest on the movie stand along with O and 10
Things I Hate About You. The other actors also do a swell job, in many
of their first time debuts.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to be honest, I really had a good time watching She's the Man.
Despite it being a typical teenage comedy or if you will the switching
of the sexes movie, it had some pretty decent laughs that I think
anyone could get. Adults and teens alike would over all enjoy this
movie.

Amanda Bynes is your typical rebellious teen who dresses and acts like
a guy, and when she is turned down to try out for the boy's soccer
team, she decides to take over her brother's appearance to prove
herself worthy of being on the boy's soccer team. Of course, love shows
itself when she meets another guy who thinks she's her brother. She
also has a girl who is chasing after her. Well, the tag line says it
all.

This is a fun little teen drama that I think will be remembered for a
while. Amanda Bynes did prove something in the film, it's really hard
to really act like a guy. :D Well, it's true! 

8/10
