
I went to see an advance screening of "Transformers" tonight, and I
walked out of the theater in disbelief. Not because the movie wasn't
what I thought it would be, but on the contrary, it was so much more
than I had ever expected.

Going into the theater, I was expecting a corny kids movie with decent
acting and a fantastic, unrealistic plot. Needless to say the plot was
indeed fantastic and unrealistic, but it was all kept in check with
solid acting and the most incredible display of visual effects that I
have EVER seen. Most...actually almost all of the acting credit in this
movie has to go to Shia LaBeouf, whom is quickly becoming a Hollywood
star after recently giving an excellent performance in the thriller
"Disturbia". It was another great performance from Shia in
"Transformers", with his clever wit still ever present.

However, the most impressive aspect of "Transformers" was most
certainly the special effects. The robot vs. robot fight scenes were,
in a word, remarkable. I didn't know that modern day special effects
could produce images so fantastic AND realistic, to the point where the
robots didn't seem computer generated at all. The interaction between
human and robot was beautiful and flawless. It seemed like the actors
were actually interacting with real, 50 foot tall robots during the
movie. "Transformers" will, without a doubt, be the pioneer for future
cinematic visual effects.

The plot may have been a little unrealistic and some of the acting a
little sketchy at times, but it does not in any way override what was
truly an entertaining movie. The plot simply stayed true as best it
could to the cartoon story without becoming overly ridiculous or corny.
When I say unrealistic, that does not mean "cartoon-corny". In fact, I
would recommend that ANYONE over the age of 13 go to see this movie. I
promise you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
When the announcement came for a new Transformers movie for Summer, I
was pretty excited. I wasn't a major Transformers fan, but I had fond
memories of the cartoon and toys. However, I hated the re-designed
Transformers, thinking that these new designs were an overly busy cross
between Lego's Bionicle toys and expressionist modern art sculptures. I
also heard the script was poor, so I decided to skip this one.

However, I started hearing movie reviews about what an amazing film
this was. "The greatest film of all time!" people proclaimed. So I came
to terms with and accepted that these weren't the robots I grew up
with, this was a "new" version, and I'd at least find interest in
robots transforming into cars and beating each other up. I'd even go
see this even though I don't like Michael Bay films.

How was it? Transformers is a disgustingly bloated and self-indulgent
piece of crap. I understand that I'll get rated down for my review, but
I'm prepared to accept that. Sadly, my theater must not have gotten the
euphoria inducing gas that apparently other theaters got, causing me to
gush over this film like other people.

Even the 1986 Transformers film wasn't perfect. It was basically one
fight scene after another, and was a means to replace the old toys for
a new line, but the action was good, showed the consequences of war,
and featured the death of a beloved character. It kept true to the
mythos, even though it was different. This movie makes reference to so
many other films that it feels like a mishmash of 30 films you've seen
before.

Bumblebee sends up an "Autobat Symbol" to summon the other Autobots
like Batman. There's a scene in an underground bunker which felt
totally pulled from Terminator 3 (and a few scenes later, uses the
exact drumbeat from the "Terminator Theme"). The fight scenes with
their out of focus cameras and "shaky cam" style seems like they are
trying to treat the battles as if they were "Saving Private Ryan"
caliber. When Bumblebee gets captured during a scene, the music swells
up so mournfully and overdramatically, that it makes the tragedies
found in "Schindler's List" seem modest.

The biggest problem in character design lies in the fact that they all
really do look alike. The worst offender was the Decepticon Frenzy,
which looked like a 3D rendered pencil scribble, and acted like the
Zuni Fetish Doll from "Trilogy of Terror". During the final battle, I
was having problems telling who was who, and when the robots collided,
it was hard to see where one began and the other ended. The car forms
were presented as blatant product showcases, ripped straight from a
commercial. Then again, there was so much product placement in the
film. eBay must have made a fortune.

The slow set-up to the action or even any real glimpses of the title
characters felt like "The Hulk". I pay for a movie about transforming
robots, that's what I want to see.

Why would they keep a deadly robot under Hoover Dam, a major water
source and tourist attraction? Why would they bring this "All-Spark"
out of the desert and into a heavily-populated city where property
damage and civilian casualties could run their full course. The
dialogue was painful, sounded like it was written for teenagers, by
teenagers in a really bad fanfic like what they thought people would
say. What really irked me is how the Autobots couldn't seem to kill a
Decepticon, but a lone soldier skidding on his back could dispatch one
with a single shot. Why were the Autobots even there if the humans
could do it better? How is it that they can save Bumblebee, but they
can't repair Jazz? What was the difference? The
government/military/robot/anyone dialogue was totally unrealistic, with
officials willing to "bet their ridiculously high government paychecks"
on hunches. Every line smacked on bad puns, clich√©s, or just sounded
stupid. There was an extended conversation about masturbation between
Sam and his parents that felt really awkward and extended far too long.

The personalities were also way underdeveloped. Transformers has over
two decades of history that wasn't touched upon. The Starscream and
Megatron rivalry, where Starscream tried to usurp Megatron for
leadership was not mentioned or covered at all. Jazz was cool and
fun-loving with a sense of style, while in the film he sounds like a
ghetto thug. His first line is profanity, and I felt insulted. Not
because of the language, but the fact that this was apparently the best
the writers could do. Decepticons were introduced and blown away within
minutes. The Autobots weren't much better. Did the people who wrote the
story know anything about the subject material besides the fact that
robots changed to vehicles? And then Optimus Prime. Obviously, Bay's
madness knew better than to totally ruin this character, as he was the
only robot who looked even remotely familiar to any previous version.
And the personality was fairly accurate... up to the backyard scene,
where Prime's personality suddenly shifts, breaks character, and he
becomes a clumsy comedian. The next scene, he shifts back into a
"leader" personality.

The saving grace outside of Prime was Sam Witwicky (played by Shia
LaBeouf), who brought a credible "gee whiz" performance to the film,
and yet I felt sorry for him using such ham-fisted dialogue.

Summer 2007 has been really mediocre for "blockbuster" films, as we're
apparently supposed to lower our standards, "sit back, not think and
enjoy" with these types of films, but how is one supposed to do that
with with film devoid of heart, personality or no focus on the main
characters? As a stand-alone film, this is a really bad movie. As a
Transformers-licensed film, it's a God awful embarrassment. I'm
avoiding the sequels unless they drastically overhaul the franchise and
get a script not limited to high-school level online fanfic.
<|_=00=_|>
This deafeningly loud, obnoxious, usually stagnant and glorified epic
disaster of a film was presented with too many opportunities to be one
of the all-time greatest summer flicks ever. However, despite the
advancements in today's special effects, it being inspired from the
highly popular 1980's Hasbro toys and cartoon, with Steven Spielberg
overseeing the production as an Executive producer, Michael Bay and his
writers were still guilty of making this a "steaming pile." I can
effortlessly breakdown at every level why this film didn't work for me.

The story was about a teenager name Sam (Shia LaBeouf) who purchases a
car that happens to be a robot in disguise from another world. Sam is
then caught in the middle of an ancient battle between two groups of
these alien robots, the heroic Autobots and the Evil Decepticons. Both
are seeking a mysterious cube known as the "Allspark" that contains
their "life source." This central plot intertwines with the story of a
special ops team being attacked by one of the Decepticons in the
beginning, the pentagon enlisting teams of computer hackers to decode a
signal they detected that ultimately came from the Decepticons and a
hokey love story between Sam and Mikaela, the gorgeous bombshell in his
class.

As intriguing as all of this may sound, besides the many battle scenes,
car chases, attempts on Sam's life and Decepticon attacks, nothing
happens to move the story along. Whatever layers of stories that were
suppose to be happening beneath the unimpressive action sequences were
uneventful and slow. So, all you're left with is the action, which by
the end was boring and tedious to watch.

The characters were flat and moronic. The humans were one-note,
soulless caricatures. They were also more than capable of damaging the
robots, which took away from the extraordinary antagonism the original
cartoon presented for our human heroes. The humans were helpless
against the Decepticons and this made the Autobots necessary. In this
absurd film, the humans didn't really need the Autobots to take out the
Decepticons.

And whatever happened to characters like Jorge "Fig" Figueroa and
Maggie? They sort or left this film halfway to the end to join the film
playing in the theater next door.

Also, part of the cartoon's success was the personalities of the
Transformers. They were emotional beings that were capable of
treacherous, loyal, courageous, cowardice, morose and optimistic
behavior. They weren't just giant piles of junk destroying an American
metropolis. Whatever happened to the ongoing struggle for power over
the Decepticons between Starscream and Megatron? This would've added
some real complexity to this paper-thin story. Instead, Bay and the
writers settled for hinting at it with a laughable one-liner from
Megatron that rang falser than the action. Wasn't Bumblebee the
kindest, frailest of them all? He was essential for his undying
compassion for the humans in the cartoons. Not in this film, where he
obviously fought in many battles and, when annoyed, can urinate on a
human being at any given time. Now going from the true character to the
characterizations of the robots, the looks of the original were more
engaging and attractive to the eye. In this film, they looked like
metal scraps of junk.

Then the films auteur had to take it there by making Jazz the
Transformer with the Black-American soul, screaming, "What up,
b****es?" Ironically, he was the only Autobot that easily gets killed
as well. Now, a lesser minded person would pull the race card for this.
I would just blame it on lazy, unimaginative, sloppy, hack writing and
directing. In the end, I couldn't care less about any of the
characters, human or Transformer.

The original Transformers could be chastised for wooden dialogue.
However, when the characters weren't trying to be funny in this film,
the dialogue was ten times worse than that of the cheesy words spoken
in the cartoon. It was absolutely ridiculous, with zero subtext. The
quality of the dialogue was lessoned in scenes where exposition was
inappropriately forced in, like the ineptly written scene when Agent
Simmons (John Turturro) was questioning Sam and Mikael in the backseat
of the SUV, revealing Mikaelas' weak back story. And how many times did
Optimus Prime have to tell us his name? At one point, I thought he was
forgetting the many times he said his name previously. Besides, the
whole introducing-yourself-thing from the Transformers, especially the
Decepticons, was extra cheddar cheesy to me: "I am Megatron!" Yeah,
and?! The monologues underscored by the sappy music could've gotten the
collective "heave-hove" from this film as well.

The special effects were cool but could've been better. Most of the
time, the Transformers looked animated instead of real in my opinion.
And the confusing, unorthodox way they transformed, not to mention
detailing that made them look like piles of scrap metal, revealed most
of the flaws in the cartoon like computer generated images. As a
director, I wouldn't be satisfied with the end result.

The most entertaining thing about sitting through a screening of this
film was the hordes of people that were going ballistic over it. They
laughed at anything and applauded for everything. From Bumblebee
shattering all the glass in and around the car dealership to the
Autobots skidding in unison on a U-Turn, these people thought every
little thing deserved a standing ovation. Okay, maybe they were not
standing. But it was all so laughable to me.

In my opinion, Bay, Spielberg and the writers massacred what could've
been one of the greatest sci-fi films ever made. The only thing amazing
about this experience was my girl sleeping through most of it with me
nodding off right along side her. Bay has proved himself to be one of
the worst, overpaid film directors in the history of Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
Transformers is a very mixed bag. There are great things about it and
there are some not-so-great things about it...

The good:

- The visual effects. Perhaps the best special effects I've ever seen
in a movie. The transformations are amazing not to mention
super-awesome. The CGI fits in seamlessly with the live action and it's
easy to forget how logistically difficult a lot of it would have been
to film.

- The sound design. The sound effects complement the action perfectly
making everything twice as exciting. Probably less acknowledged is the
alien atmosphere created by some of the score which heightens the
tension very effectively and probably without the majority of the
audience noticing.

- Shia LeBeouf. Without him the movie wouldn't be nearly as engaging.
He has natural comic timing and is probably second to none in
expressing disbelief of the "holy crap, there's a giant alien robot
transforming in front of me" variety.

- The humour. Transformers is funnier than most good comedies which I
was not expecting in the least. The transformers themselves are often
funnier than they are impressive.

- The Decepticons. Man are they cool. The opening scene is particularly
kick-arse.

The bad:

- Megan Fox. If hot means "can't act and doesn't weigh much" then yes,
she's very hot. It's not a good sign if you want one of the main
characters to die or at least get out of the way and stop trying to
act. Her performance just seemed very shallow and probably wasn't
helped by her dialogue.

- The script. Although the overall storyline is good, some of the
dialogue is terrible. Too much of the film is spent on mumbo jumbo
technical explanations the audience just doesn't care about. The less
serious parts of the script work very well though.

- Michael Bay. Although some of the action scenes are very well put
together and the humorous parts are timed very well, Bay can't help but
ruin some of the scenes with unnecessarily flashy editing and over the
top drama accompanied by none-too-subtle dramatic music. It's not that
Michael Bay's style is too loud, it's that it's too clich√©d.

- The music. Nothing new here (other than the alien sounding parts).
Practically rips of Batman Begins and is otherwise forgettable. The
music should enhance the film by bringing out interesting themes or
emotions, not force feeding us the drama we can plainly see on the
screen in super slow motion.

The ugly:

- Megatron. He's ugly. And super cool.

So, my verdict? The good outweighs the bad pretty comfortably. If you
took out the bad you might even have a classic on your hands. Instead
you get revolutionary action scenes and some great comedy with Michael
Bay's unique brand of mediocre directing sprinkled throughout.
<|_=00=_|>
What a concept it was. Two rival factions of transforming robots crash
land on Earth, and are re-awoken in 1984 to continue their epic
struggle amongst a vastly inferior race. One side, the heroic Autobots,
battles to save their homeworld from the evil Decepticons.

Humans took a back seat in this war. Seen by the Autobots as life that
should be protected and by the Decepticons as insignificant obstacles,
the characters that made Transformers so popular were the transformers
themselves.

Alas, Michael Bay's vision was obviously something quite different.

After an outstanding exposition in which we meet the lead and
supporting characters, the movie goes downhill. Fast. Full of plot
holes that invalidate half the events of the movie, and stupid writing
that just doesn't make sense, Transformers severely makes me doubt the
abilities of its writers (then again, one of its writers did do
Catwoman AND The Core - two more stupid movies).

Plot flaws? That's right! The better part of the movie is spent
following the two factions as they race to find a map Megatron made to
the 'Allspark'. Naturally, we later find out that the Allspark was
moved by the humans AFTER the map was made, to a place specifically
selected to prevent the transformers from finding it. But does that
stop them from using the now invalid map to find it? Not at all! The
map leads them right to it. Somehow.

So now the Allspark is found, but entrusted to Bumblebee. And what does
a US special forces operative decide to do? That's right - drive it
into the middle of a large city, where hundreds, if not thousands of
people can be killed in the inevitable battle between 20 foot tall
transforming robots.

A good story can be set in the present day, or in Shakespeare's time,
or Ancient Rome, underwater or in space. Your characters can be humans,
farm animals or robots, and if it's a good story, little will be lost.

So why did Bay find it necessary to give the transformers barely any
lines or decent screen time? And why were half their scenes just petty
jokes (I refer to the far-too-long scene in which the transformers act
like complete idiots as Witwicky searches for his Grandfather's
glasses. It was funny for about 2 minutes. The other 30 minutes were
just painful.)? 

I don't think I could ever run out of bad things to say about this
movie. Seriously, don't see it - especially if you care about
Transformers and have more than one brain cell.
<|_=00=_|>
(This comment was deleted by IMDb based on an abuse report filed by
another user, so I'm guessing it was pretty abusive; maybe it spoiled
some aspect of "the plot," if you can call it that, for some poor soul)

I think it was about four or five words into the opening narration when
we burst into laughter. "Before time began..." Ouch. When a film can't
go 5 seconds without a clich√©, it doesn't deserve to be watched, at
least not with a straight face.

Michael Bay's Transformers is hilariously awful, a sub-Ed Wood affair
all the way through, a camp classic in the making. If Bay is the new
Edward D. Wood, Jr. then Transformers may be the new Plan 9 from Outer
Space. Let me count the ways: 

1. Incoherent narration/ incoherent plot? Check.

2. Laughably bad dialogue? Check.

3. Pompous aliens with inexplicable plan to conquer Earth? Check.

4. Day turns to night in an instant? Check.

5. Copious use of military stock footage? Check.

6. Epic numbers of continuity errors? Check.

7. Dramatic confrontations solved via fistfights? Check.

8. Dramatic scenes that fly straight out of left field? Check. ("I'm so
glad I got in the car with you.") 

9. Formerly respectable older star sinks to a new low? Check. (Poor,
poor Jon Voight) 

10. Incredible overacting that is obviously encouraged by the director?
Check.

11.Character who cannot speak for no apparent reason? Check.

12. Rampant stereotyping (not just the racial ones but stuff like cops
acting dumb, doing a lot of shouting, and eating doughnuts, and
military officials being all secretive one minute and spilling said
secrets the next)? Check.

13. Characters with a lot of face time who end up playing no important
role in the "story?" Check. (What useful purpose did Duhamel and the
troops in Qatar serve after the first ten minutes?) 

14. Heavy handed social/political commentary/references? Check. (eBay,
eBay, eBay;imagine how much trouble could have been avoided if they'd
just BOUGHT THE DAMN GLASSES OFF OF EBAY!) 

15. A flying saucer catches on fire then crashes? Check.

16. Sudden flashes of light appear from nowhere and knock characters
over? Check.

17. The action in some shots is hopelessly muddled? Check.

18. A character's hilarious death scene is matched only by his
hilarious eulogy? Check.

19. The action halts suddenly so that someone can explain the
back-story? Check.

20. Random bursts of laughter fill theater during screening? Check.

21. Gaps in dialogue perfect for Mystery Science Theater 3000-esque
commentary? Check.

22. Inevitable cult following? Check.

Only these three things are missing, keeping it from true Ed Wood
greatness: 

1. No giant octopus. (Though Scorponok comes pretty close.)

2. No transvestites. (It has the prefix "trans-" in the title, though.)

3. No ludicrously campy speech made by the main villain. (Just " I AM
MEGATRON!!!", which is plenty campy but not much of a speech.) 

Maybe these'll be in the director's cut.

Except, of course, Ed Wood's movies had heart; even at their worst they
feel like more than exercises in feature-length product placement. Bay
doesn't have anything even remotely resembling a heart in his chest -
that's why he's not even in Wood's league as a bad director, no matter
how many laughs his terrible films get. And at least Wood's films
didn't cost $150 million to make.

I'm a Transformers fan from way back. I've got an Optimus Prime and a
Megatron atop one of my bookshelves. I have ancient videotapes of the
fondly remembered cartoon series and a copy of the 20th anniversary
movie DVD. I had worried that this film would damage my childhood
memories beyond repair, like Star Wars Episode I did. But the film is
just TOO bad and TOO stupid to have any real effect on me. The old
animated movie, bad as it is, mops the floor with this one. If
anything, it is a more mature(!) and entertaining work. The music in
the old movie is terrible, but it fits. The music here is just
terrible.

There are good points, but none anywhere near enough. John Turturro is
the only actor who escapes this mess unscathed - his great over-the-top
performance suggests that he actually understands how Z-grade the
script he was given was. He's a lot of fun to watch, even as he's
quickly reduced to a non-entity by the plot mechanics. Turturro is a
great actor and this part only serves to elevate his status in my eyes.
I hope he got a serious paycheck.

I can't stand CGI as a rule, but the special effects here are
moderately convincing, at least in those rare moments when the camera
isn't performing idiotic cartwheels to obscure them. I honestly like
the models for the new TFs (the Autobots, anyway - I can barely tell
the Decepticons apart), but the fact that they have little personality
isn't so endearing.

Maybe the sequel will be up to the lofty standards of Ed Wood's Night
of the Ghouls. But I doubt it.
<|_=00=_|>
Tripe. Filth. Mud. Worthless. Blunt. Stupid. These are six words that
aptly describe the idea behind Michael Bay's latest smash-fest
"TRANSFORMERS." 

As one of those "poor saps" (as I was called while waiting in the
theater) who had never seen the TV show as a child, I went into the
movie expecting nothing, especially considering that Michael Bay is one
of the least artistic, most pandering directors of the present. But
once the movie started, it was all right. Shia LeBeouf was charming, as
was the quirky teen-humor that pervaded the first 45 minutes. In fact,
the Transformers were pretty bad-ass.

...Until minute 46, when they began to talk. Not only was their
behavior evocative of stoners and idiots, they lumbered around his
backyard, and, later in the movie, peed on a federal agent. There was
even one transformer (I forget the name, and I am all the better for
it) that talked like he was from the "projects." The plotting was
puerile and idiotic. There was even a subplot where Shia LeBeouf's love
interest was discovered to have a criminal record, but that subplot was
handily absolved five minutes later when Shia LeBeouf cuts a deal with
the government. SO STUPID AND POINTLESS! Not to mention, the movie
abounded with Michael Bay's never-ending car chases and slow-motion
hoohah. Very very bad scripting like "I'm not leaving without
Bumblebee!" and the leader of the good Transformers saying "Oops, my
bad" made for a horrible experience.

The bulk of the movie was terrible. The acting, aside from noticeably
realistic screams from Shia and others, was stilted and just perfect
for the sort of film that doesn't even hide that it relies wholly on
special-effects and the toy franchise itself, the kind of things that
Michael Bay loves to beat over movie-goers' heads like a blunt object.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is ACTION. I say this first because if you think this movie
will be anything more than this, you will be disappointed on some level
(as I was). Frame for frame this movie screams Michael Bay.

Now that's out of the way, there's a lot of stuff here that works and a
lot that doesn't. It's a good thing that the robots do work. Seeing
autobots and decepticons in glorious photo-realistic CGI is enough to
wring out any childhood fantasy from anybody (not just boys from the
80s). Watching these robots move is to realize a revelation to what is
possible with modern movie effects. Whether it's transforming on the
move, bashing the living daylights out of each other, or just standing
and talking, these guys alone make the movie work. And unlike the other
blockbusters that have came out this year, these effects have a sense
of weight that adds so much to the visual satisfaction.

As for everything else, well... that's when things start to go
downhill. In typical epic fashion, this movie contains a sprawling
cast. Along with this however, are a large number of writing and acting
issues. With such a large number of underdeveloped characters, names
are pretty much luxury. Also, most of the human related humor gags miss
badly, which makes it hurt more considering a lot of the characters
were unnecessary. Jon Voight's Secretary of Defense character
completely baffles me, which makes me think that audiences responded
positively to the President in Independence Day doing aerial dogfights.
Any positives from the supporting cast (including the strange yet
entertaining overacting of John Turturro) are outweighed by the large
set of negatives.

However, the cast has got it where it counts. Shia Lebeouf plays an
important part in selling the reality of the robots as the lead
character Sam, and also carries an easy likability factor. Megan Fox's
acting does a reasonable job bringing some interest to her character to
beyond her looks. The voice cast also does an overall superb job. Peter
Cullen IS Prime, and although his dialogue does border on the
ridiculous, he always has a sense of gravity to his lines. Hugo Weaving
also does an equally commendable job as Megatron (His booming entrance
will forever be embedded into the minds of little kids everywhere). The
rest of the transformers don't say much, which is a shame because I
wanted to see so much more interplay between them (The taunts that
Optimus and Megatron yell as their fighting is great stuff).

Another major gripe I have is Bay's ADD editing. Although it does keep
the movie constantly moving, it creates some issues with continuity and
distracts from some of the action (probably the biggest crime committed
in the movie).

I could go on and on about the good things (Bumblebee, Frenzy) and the
bad things (Anthony Anderson and his family, forgotten Barricade) and
the downright weird things (Dubya's cameo, Sam's friend climbing in a
tree). Overall, the film delivers where it really matters. Although I
was disappointed, the amount of potential for the sequel (which just
got greenlighted) just gets me giddy (is it too much to ask for a
tighter script and better acting?) 

(Also, the Autobot Assemble scene is one of the coolest things I've
seen in theaters in years.)
<|_=00=_|>
Summer action flicks should never be seen with the preconceived notion
of high expectations. The reason for this is simple: eye candy films
that are released when school is out aim for a youthful demographic who
are simply looking for good way to kill 2 and half hours. These films
can be instant blockbusters even without a coherent plot or compelling
dialogue. Films about massive robots based on a toy line which wreak
havoc narrow the demographic further (and lower the bar of cinematic
standards), but throw in wannabe epic director Michael Bay (Armageddon,
Pearl Harbor) and you can guarantee the trailer will pull in other
audiences. I never played with the toys or watched the cartoon, but it
can be assured nothing more meets the eye than CGI goo and decent Foley
artists on sound in Transformers.

The basic plot involves the benevolent Autobots and their archenemies
(Decepticons) dragging their robot war on Earth, as if humans didn't
have enough of their own war mongering to deal with. The Decepticons
are looking for their cube which is powerful enough to create new robot
life or destroy Middle Earth..err...the universe but the Autobots are
willing to have Frodo...I mean... Sam (Shia LeBeouf) sacrifice the cube
(and new transformer life) for the victory of the human race. The
stereotyped prodigies give hope to nerds everywhere: teenage
intelligence agents, a computer hacker, even a car mechanic with too
much make up. Sam probably feels left out as the average kid, but is
reassured later that "you're a soldier " too. Michael Bay, who is only
good at directing big locations blowing up on camera , struggled to
find a logical reason for the final battle. He fails at doing so and
consequently has a character suggest (with knowledge of an impending
robot onslaught) to rendezvous in a major human population area.
Everyone else, including the Secretary of Defense (John Voight),
quickly agrees to this idea of jeopardizing the safety of an entire
city. I have this to say to Michael Bay: No, pushing the story along so
you can have your 20 minute destructo-scene isn't going to make me
forget about that line earlier in the movie. You know, the one where
the boy films the Autobot simultaneously crash landing and yells, "Wow!
This is cooler than Armageddon!" I didn't sit down in the theater
expecting fine cinematic quality, but I don't want to see a movie where
the director services himself for what he believes to be past
"accomplishments."

At least there were a few well done casting elements. Shia LeBeouf was
good as the quick witted underdog student, but I'm afraid he is in
danger of being typecast. Didn't I already see him play this role in
Disturbia? John Turturro as the oddly likable top secret agent also
makes the monotonous dialogue scenes more dynamic. Most importantly,
the film lacked Michael Bay's favorite fan boy Ben Affleck (It was
reported that for this reason, the crew had to stop production for a
week because Bay locked himself in the bathroom, sobbing
uncontrollably.) Hugo Weaving (The Matrix, The Lord of the Rings) was
in the film voicing Megatron but you wouldn't know it considering his
two lame lines. Then there's Sam's caked up love interest (Meagan Fox)
who, besides the horrible acting, loses points for actually saying,
"Sam, whatever happens, I'm glad I got in the car with you." It must
have been a homage to every poorly delivered, cheese ball romance line
in the the history of cinema.

At least Bay, who sold his soul to corporate America in this film,
didn't force her to to replace the word "car" with "Camaro." It
wouldn't have been surprising, considering I counted 11 different
products being shamelessly placed throughout the entire film. Ebay is
not the only online auction site, I'm not letting Bay have that one. As
for the rest, was it really necessary to show the words "GMC" and
"Camaro" as if the movie was a car commercial? Was it really necessary
to include the words "Blackberry", "Nokia", and "Energizer" in under a
minute of dialogue? Did John Turturro feel as sold out as I did for not
walking out when I heard him say, "...your little Taco Bell dog?"

I only stayed for the duration of the movie to write this review, which
will never happen again if I witness such disgusting product placement.
A summer action flick about fighting robots is tolerable, but the
special effects weren't even that great. A shot without any movement
other than the CGI spectacles, isn't live action, it's animation. The
music sounds stripped from another Bay film. Take away those elements,
Bay's pathetic direction, the typecast characters, the poorly written
plot and all you have left is the sound, which actually made the film
audibly pleasing. I salute you Erik Aadahl and friends of the sound
department. Michael Bay, please take the advice of Matt Stone and Trey
Parker and stop making movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly don't know where to start with this movie. I will say
however, that - like many other people - this is the film I've been
waiting 20 years to see.

I suppose it's sensible to start with what should be the foundation
stone of any cinematic experience - the script. It's cheesy,
clich√©-ridden, and poorly-structured. Characterisation (especially of
the Autobots/Decepticons) is non-existent. Optimus Prime uttering the
words "My bad" must go down in history as one of the worst moments in
movie history. Actually scratch that - the "lubricating" scene is
definitely worse. The writing of human characters is lazy at best,
sticking with stereotypes such as the beautiful code-breaker, fat
computer whizz, bumbling government agent etc etc. The performances
(Shia aside) are instantly forgettable, but a great deal of that comes
down to the script and direction. Megan Fox may be a great actress for
all I know, but she may as well be a stripper for the purposes of this
movie.

The effects are incredible (although not helped by Bay's erratic
editing style), but when you've no reason to care about them it results
in an empty experience. Effects DON'T MAKE A MOVIE.

With Spielberg as part of this project I allowed myself a little
optimism, but it's patently clear that Bay and Co. had no understanding
or respect for the Transformers franchise. GIANT "FLIPPING" ROBOTS
BLOWING "STUFF" UP this may be, but it is most certainly not
Transformers.
