
This movie was stunning in many aspects. Visually in terms of
locations, inside and out, there was great consistency and a nothing
seemed strained. The story weaved fluidly through these locations and
seemed to make the locales a vital part of the story. Ed Norton was
mesmerizing, a superb performance that allowed the story to unfold
seemingly at his discretion. Jess Biel was very believable and
stunningly beautiful. Paul Giamatti (sp) played an admirable role and
took the viewer by surprise in many elements of the story. The story
was fresh and imaginative, very intriguing. Not as predictable as you
would think. We saw this at a Sundance screening and the entire theater
of 500+ seats was full and when the movie was over all you could hear
was excited and happy chatter, lots of applause as well. Director came
out for a Q&A after and was very amiable in answering questions. Highly
recommended!!!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Illusionist" is a unique film that combines two often stale genres
into something fresh: the lush romantic period piece and the "AHA!"
mystery thriller (a genre M. Night Shamalyan has single-handedly run
into the ground recently). Helmed by a first time director (Neil
Burger), based on a short story, and featuring an eclectic cast, "The
Illusionist" had the perfect set-up to be a monumental disaster. With a
graceful slight-of-hand, it ends up being something very good.

As with any run-of-the-mill period piece, there's a lavish attention to
the set designs and costumes, here representing late nineteenth century
Vienna. Director Burger puts a nice spin on the same-old, same-old with
an acute attention to lighting (especially in the dreamily over-exposed
flashbacks) and old fashioned camera techniques (witness the circular
camera's eye closing to transition from scenes) to give the film the
feel of being a fond memory of a classic movie from a bygone era.

The central romance where Edward Norton's title character and Jessica
Biel's Dutchess are star-crossed lovers kept apart because of class and
society, had all the makings of a snore-inducing cheese-athon. Executed
in an understated manner that services the greater plot, it ends up
being anything but. Norton's performance, especially in the second half
of the film when he turns into a man of very few words, had the
potential to be one-note. As an actor, he speaks volumes with his eyes.
Biel, a former teen idol and TV star, seemed a horrific choice for this
role. She pulls of the nifty trick of being quite good. Even better are
Rufus Sewell as the tyrannical crown-prince and Paul Giamatti as the
chief inspector. Using a short story as the source material,
characterizations had the potential to be paper-thin, but these
seasoned veterans make the most of their lines and scenes adding
terror, humor, and gravitas through their vocal and physical deliveries
where lesser actors would've been wooden and cold. The entire cast also
worked together very well utilizing their odd, vaguely European and
aristorcatic accent. Everyone used it so consistently and earnestly, it
didn't seem to matter after awhile that the accent was unnecessary.

A more over-eager or pretentious director may have completely sabotaged
the fantastic ending to "The Illusionist" and cheated the audience.
Handled deftly by Burger, the grande finale where "all is revealed" is
a wholly organic and satisfying conclusion that rewards the patient
viewer and fulfills the lofty promises of the themes presented
throughout the work.

"The Illusionist" boasts an excellent music score from minimalist
composer Phillip Glass that easily rivals his great work done in
"Candyman" and "The Hours." Norton and Giamatti treat us to some of the
best "staring" since the days of silent films. The look on Giamatti's
face and the positioning of his raised eyebrows as he watches Norton
perform his illusions coupled with Norton's eyes as he pulls off his
tricks are priceless.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a long time fan of the old theatre magicians and have been
fascinated by the wave of spiritualism that swept both continents
around the turn of the last century. This movie plays off those real
life happenings, with the added twist of court and political intrigue.
The movie is lush - as a period piece should be - with terrific
performances from a true ensemble cast. Edward Norton has the
charismatic gaze that makes you believe in every thing he does.
Jennifer Biel is tragic and compelling as a woman trapped by society
and dubious duty. Paul Giamatti - who seems to be in every other movie
these days - is wonderful as a conflicted man unsure of whom he serves.
Rufus Sewell, as the Crown Prince Leopold, is that man, and he embodies
the boo-hiss villain. Vain and driven, he is larger than life and not
one to cross, as the illusionist comes to find out. The music of Philip
Glass fits the scenes and add just the right amount of tension. Plus
the horses are very old world with large hooves and a heck of a lot of
presence. A compelling and beautiful film.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this wonderful film at the San Francisco Film Festival as a
surprise entry. Beautifully shot and realized, it keeps you guessing
until the end as to the true outcome. It was throughly entertaining and
innovative. This movie has it all: romance, suspense, star crossed
lovers and supernatural illusions. Edward Norton is perfectly cast as
Eisenheim The Illusionist. His accent flowed seamlessly and he simply
disappeared into the role. The real revelation to me was none other
than Paul Giamatti. Paul's richly accented role was not altogether
unlike Tommy Lee Jones' role in The Fugitive. I found his scenes with
Norton full of respect and begrudging admiration. It was an absolute
joy to see these two pros at work. I will definitely be paying to see
this one again when it's released theatrically.
<|_=00=_|>
The Illusionist is a very entertaining movie. The beginning of the
movie sets an awesome foundation for the rest of the film to work with,
without making the rest of the movie predictable and pointless.
Although the basic story of boy gets girl, boy loses girl may not be
original, the way the plot is presented with the excellent magical
imagery keeps one interested in Edward Norton's character. My only
complaint would be that the movie needs a little editing towards the
end as the creators seem to show basically the same scene over and over
in an attempt to drive home Norton's character's emotional distress.
Unfortunately, this gets a little monotonous for viewers. Still,
Norton, Sewell, Giamatti (and surprisingly Biel) provide excellent
performances that, along with the beautiful cinematography, make a
great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this see this film knowing only the names of the actors,
having seen no trailers and having read no reviews. It is one of the
best movies I've seen in years! I was completely captivated, as were
almost all of the others in the audience, judging by the loud applause.
I love magic shows and was delighted by the authentic look of
Eisenheim's illusions performed on a stage having at most a chair and a
table, lit by limelights. Other reviewers have described better than I
the beautiful scenery, music, visuals, and acting and have given the
movie high marks..

Then there are the reviewers who post spoilers and others who claim to
have "figured it out" way before the end and therefore give it low
scores. They are kin to those in a magicians audience who cannot
appreciate the illusion but spend all their time guessing how the trick
is done and must tell everyone they know the secret. Ignore them! Go
see the movie and be drawn in to a fascinating story!
<|_=00=_|>
I love movies of all type for different reasons. Action movies to
become stimulated physically, comedies to laugh my troubles away,
suspense to sit on the edge of my seat. But mostly, I attend movies to
escape from a humdrum and dangerous world. "The Illusionist" is the
ultimate in escape movies. It is gripping from he opening scene and the
grip lasts until the final realization. The story is masterfully
crafted and the screenplay intriguing. The special effects and
illusions are entertainment enough. But all of this surrounded in the
backdrop of the story, it's movement from one idea to another is an
added treat. First there is the marvelous acting of all the major
actors, surrounded by great support. The cinematography and music are
awesome. This movie is filled with entertainment, suspense, romance,
sensuality tastefully done, treachery and surprises. I have not been so
entranced by a movie since the first Banderas Zorro movie. I didn't
look at my watch once and the one hour and forty-five minutes flew by
in delight. I want to see this movie over and over again. and I will
still marvel at its perfection. You all must go and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. It's just that simple. I've seen it several times
and the charm never wears off. Yes, it ultimately is a 'feel good
movie', but is that so wrong? It keeps you mesmerized until the very
last scene. This film is destined to be a classic.

As I read some of the other comments about this movie on IMDb, I
realize that cynicism can easily get in the way of just enjoying a
movie for what it is. This is a magnificent film! Edward Norton and
Paul Giametti are terrific and so is the rest of the cast. The
cinematography was stunning. The script was superb. The direction was
outstanding. I really can't say anything bad about this film. I
thoroughly recommend this movie! I could give it no less than a 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Hats off to director Neil Burger. He bit off a big challenge with The
Illusionist, and he pulled it off admirably. This is a very liberal
adaptation of a Steven Millhauser story about a magician in Victorian
era in Vienna. Shot entirely in the Czech Republic at gorgeously
befitting locations, this is a beautifully made period piece, complete
with genuine turn-of-the-century illusions, a wonderful soundtrack,
lovely cinematography and an intriguing story.

Edward Norton plays Eisenheim, the magician who lost his first love as
a young boy because they were separated by classes, but years later
when he is touring Vienna rediscovers her in the form of Princess
Sophie (Jessica Beil). Unfortunately, Sophie is engaged to be married
to the unseemly Prince Leopold (Rufus Sewell), who immediately takes a
dislike to Eisenheim, chiefly because he fails to debunk his illusions.
Prince Leopold, not one to do his own dirty work, relies upon Chief
Inspector Uhl (Paul Giamatti) to handle Eisenheim.

Edward Norton is great as Eisenheim. (That shouldn't be surprising as
he's turned in some truly remarkable performances in the pastFight
Club, American History XXX, Rounders and The Score.) And of course Paul
Giamatti is excellent as well, although his role is something of a
departure for him. But perhaps most surprising is Biel, who is not only
radiantly beautiful in this movie, but shows surprising talent as well,
and holds her screen presence toe to toe with Norton.

Burger has managed to pull off really a remarkable film. The plot moves
along steadily. There is also a very consistent tonality--a foreboding
dreariness that perfectly matches the subject matter and the period.
(In the same way that David Lynch did with The Elephant Man.) The
illusions are captivating and almost believable. The love story is
touching. And Eisenheim is a compelling and sympathetic hero, blessed
with such unconventionally heroic talents that the entire movie feels
fresh and alive.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me say this was a beautifully-filmed movie, just
gorgeous from first to last frame. That gets big points with me. Just
as impressive was the story, a fantasy-mystery- romance-drama
combination set in Vienna, Austria, around the turn of the 20th
century.

It is a story that should keep most viewers intrigued all the way and
perhaps surprised quite a bit at the end. Edward Norton does his normal
job of making you fascinated with whatever character he's playing, this
time a magician with almost supernatural powers: "Herr Eisenheim." The
character he plays, and the tone of the movie in general, is pretty
low-key with next to nothing in (on screen) violence or profanity.

It's simply a classy film and a modern-day one that older folks would
very much enjoy as well as younger adults. Paul Giamatti also is very
interesting as the police inspector, torn between his allegiance to the
villain crown prince and to the truth and what is the right thing to
do. The movie, however, belongs to Norton.

In a nutshell: good stuff, classy film. I haven't talked to anybody yet
who watched this and didn't like it.
