
If like me you are an old curmudgeon, who often makes Scrooge seem like
Mother Theresa, then I strongly suggest you go watch this beautiful
enchanting film on the life of Beatrix Potter.

It is extremely rare in these days of overblown special effects and
"Written by Number Scripts" to come across a film that has
intelligence, innocence, excellent acting, and beautiful music and
cinematography.

I have seen other reviews that said Renee Zellwegger was wrong for the
role of Potter, but I felt she had clearly understood the nature of the
world in which Potter lived and the inner nature of a woman who had
enormous talent, yet was determined to fight against the confinement's
and mores of Victorian Society. There really was not one performance by
any of the actors in the film that was out of place.

In these days when we educate our children with cynical reality shows,
in which instant and short lived fame is more important that working
hard to achieve your dreams, "Miss Potter" took me back to my childhood
of innocence and imagination where simple but beautiful stories created
so much warmth and good feeling.

This is a film for all age's, and all people. Absolutely beautiful from
start to finish
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on December 17th, 2006 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival's Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

This is the story of Beatrix Potter, the author of many classic
illustrated children's stories such as "Peter Rabbit." She was raised
in the latter part of the 19th Century in an upper middle class, stuffy
family. And worked in the early part of the 20th Century.

It is a story of rebellion, and one woman's liberation from knowing
one's place, settling on an arranged marriage, and quietly raising a
family in the shadow of a man. Beatrix (Renee Zellweger) would have
none of that. She had a dreamy artist's imagination and talent and
temperament from an early age and simply rebelled and lived in her own
created world. When the world recognized her talent, she slowly became
a part of the commercial world via the book publishing industry and a
mentor/love interest (Ewan McGregor) and the mentor's sister (Emily
Watson).

The cast is brilliant. You go back in time with them a 100 years and
live with and understand their stilted social mores. The art direction
and cinematography are stunning and are worthy of Academy Award
nominations. 

There is one neat trick of animation that appears throughout this film.
The drawn animal characters occasionally become animated, but only to
Beatrix. It sounds hokey, but it is a clever way to demonstrate how
real these characters were to their author. And, it's why they have
rung true to children and to adults for many generations.

Beatrix is a model for determination and pluck and steadfastness. This
is a beautiful story beautifully told. Undoubtedly, this film will be
compared to "Finding Neverland." "Miss Potter" is of the same high
quality. 

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fine movie. It has exquisite beauty, love, aspiration and
dreams--- and meticulous historical vibes. It is very true to the real
story of Beatrix Potter. It is also a solidly interesting and
entertaining movie as well. Far from being only a mere confection and
therefore meaningless, 'Miss Potter' is meaty and solid.

In addition to being a great dramatic movie and true to life, it also
possesses charm and grace. The very selective animation of the
watercolour characters she drew--- and animated only for Miss Potter's
eyes, mind!--- are sweet, and totally in line with the original
paintings she made 100 years ago. It is truly as if the characters come
alive for her, and we get to share her passion, intimacy, and love for
them, rather than the audience merely seeing a 'cartoon' of some kind.
A welcome and pure delight!

The movie, in being faithful to the real Miss Potter's life, reflected
her actual world. Note that she had a chaperon at all times, even when
in her own garden, or shopping. Social mores and what was proper or not
occupied her mother, who herself was only a generation away from being
one of those odious and lowly creatures she so despised--- 'a
tradesman'. Heavens!

Anyway--- given the life and times of Beatrix Potter, a movie about her
will have certain degree of that as well--- a certain gentility. Note
also that her children's books were also the very soul of discretion
and refinement. She painted watercolor bunnies, for goodness' sake. I
found the life she did lead, and which was amply depicted in this
movie, to be as dramatic as any. Consider what she endured, and what
she went through. As well as what she didn't go through. She was
healthy, and rich, so we won't see a lot of struggling with survival.
She was kind and refined, so we won't see a lot of violence and
judgement and hatred, etc.---- those things were simply not in her.

She was, nonetheless, truly inspirational. She was bold, and a free
thinker who displayed a lot of courage. She wasn't a prostitute or a
criminal or a resistance fighter or a herion addict or any 'dramatic'
thing like that. Maybe she didn't have to agonize over each piece of
literature she produced, but the process of creativity and perseverance
she did go through was inspiring to me.

Renee Zellweger did a remarkable job. And just think--- she comes from
Texas! The fact that a Texan pulled off a spot-on portrayal of a great
English artist seems to have bent the noses of a tiny few English
folks--- maybe they are jealous, and stuck in some old and fetid dream
of a long gone Empire? Dunno. But I loved Zellweger in this, and I
think you will too. She masterfully and expertly did Beatrix Potter,
and the English society of the turn of the last century, proud.
<|_=00=_|>
"Miss Potter" is a wonderful movie caused me to coo, "AwwWWwwWw..."
rather often. My friend and I thought it was such a heart-warming
movie, through every scene, we kept wondering, "Wait, when does the
climatic bad part happen?" This movie shows the inspiring journey that
the successful author of Peter Rabbit, Beatrix Potter, undergoes.

Beatrix loved drawing woodland animals as a girl and telling stories
about them to her maid and younger brother. Despite her mother's stolid
opinion against her adroit hobby, Beatrix displays her fortitude as a
young woman trying to get a publisher. She is introduced to the
youngest son of a publishing company, who is played by the urbane and
charming Ewan McGregor (Moulin Rouge). Miss Potter's only friends were
her drawings of her forest creatures, until she met the young publisher
and her comical sister. Her drawings come to life (you see them
animated whenever Beatrix looks at them) and are reflections of
characters in her own life and feelings.

Reoccuring themes such as friendship, anti-marriage in the early 1900s
in the views of suffragettes, and attainment of one's dreams.

Highly recommended for anyone who's been wanting a poignant, feel-good
film. :)
<|_=00=_|>
Very much enjoyed this lovely film at the San Francisco screening this
evening and so seemed the audience who clapped enthusiastically at the
end and delayed to read the credits and listen to the closing music.
How nice to be in a theater when your fellow attendees give heartfelt
sighs of delight at seeing the desired outcome of a scene play out...or
who wholeheartedly laugh at the witty script. Throw in stunning Lake
Country, Cumbria, and Isle of Man scenery with surprises from the
artist's sketch pad and you have a wonderful film. And, at last, a film
for adults and young people that leaves out the unnecessary foul
language and gratuitous sex scenes. How refreshing! A wholesome romance
with beautiful stories of friendship and challenging family
relationships in late 19th/early 20th Century England. Funny...I wish
Hollywood and its screenwriters with high-school-peeping-Tom
mentalities would understand that these are the kinds of movies we're
craving! Very high recommendations for this movie and its talented
actors.
<|_=00=_|>
Only the most curmudgeonly won't delight in this tender, inventive
movie -- Miss Potter.

There aren't many movies that one can recommend to all of his or her
friends, but Miss Potter may be the rare exception.

It has flair, style, and humanity.

Rene Zellwegger -- not everyone's favorite -- only occasionally simpers
in her sensitive, forceful performance as writer Beatrix Potter.

Ewan McGregor and Emily Watson fit perfectly into their very likable
characters.

The direction, screenplay, and art direction are all first-rate. And
the sparing use of animation is wonderful. Peter Rabbit never looked so
charming.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Miss Potter on the premiere night and as a devote fan of Beatrix
Potter I was extremely impressed! As a previous comment said that they
would not watch it I feel sorry for them as Renee, though she isn't
English did a spectacular job. Judy Dench would not match her and is
after all too old and would have lacked the vitality Renee brought to
the part. Ewan and her have so much chemistry especially in the scene
were he proposes. Their performances were tender, genuine and extremely
believable. It is the most perfect film I have ever seen. As for the
supporting actors and actresses, they gave as good a performance as the
leads! I especially loved seeing the Lake District which myself and my
family visit a lot looking gorgeous as always. The added bit of
animation was so beautiful, it was used very well as I was worried it
might look out of place but it brought the story and animals to life.
Loved it when Jemima shock her tail feather at Norman! Altogether the
film was faultless.
<|_=00=_|>
This is genuinely one of the best films i have seen for a long time. It
is superbly acted all round, and makes brilliant use of the locations
really allowing the viewer to understand and appreciate the beauty of
the Lake District. Ordinarily i would have been more sceptical of the
casting of an American actress in a role such as Beatrix Potter.
However, Renee Zellweger is such a good actress and embraces this role
so well that i have no qualms in this area here, although i did read
one comment which said Emily Watson (Millie) would have made a better
Beatrix - and am in complete agreement that she too would have been
wonderful ( i mean aren't there enough British actresses to go
round?!), but as i say i couldn't fault Renee Zellweger either. One
thing that was nice to see was a good British supporting cast, not one
of whom put a foot wrong. The story was brilliantly scripted too, with
a good blend of fact, fiction, innocence, romance and fantasy touches.
The film just really left me smiling - its a great reminder of what we
go to the cinema for.
<|_=00=_|>
"Miss Potter," based on the life of Beatrix Potter, the best selling
author of children's books of all time, is an enchanting film.

Directed by Chris Noonan ("Babe") and written by Richard Maltby, Jr.,
whose theatrical background is no doubt the reason the 94-minute film
has such a jaunty pace, "Miss Potter" is not a standard biopic in that
it has the ability to appeal to pretty much everyone, with the
exception of the very young, which I'll get to in a moment. 

Opening images of a pair of hands carefully choosing the pencils and
brushes that are the tools of the writer/illustrator's craft, paired
with a voice-over that tells us that "there is something delicious
about writing the first words of a story," reveal Potter's passion for
her craft. Her affection for what she calls her "friends" -- the
bunnies, frogs and ducks who are the subjects of her tales -- is
equally strong. So strong, in fact, that we wonder, as do the two
gentlemen who agree to produce her work, if Miss Potter (Rene
Zellweger) isn't just a little daft.

This notion is quickly laid to rest, however, when we see the author,
escorted by fledgling publisher Norman Warne (a sedately sweet Ewan
McGregor), confidently direct the printing of her works, an endeavor
not generally expected of single women in 1902 London, and not deemed
acceptable by its society. 

Among those who find this effort distasteful are Potter's parents
(Barbara Flynn and Bill Patterson), a pair of "social climbers" who
seek to marry their only daughter to a man of means. That she refuses
these overtures is the crux of their often contentious relationship.

In lieu of marriage, Potter immerses herself in her work. As her
success blossoms, so does her relationship with her champion, Mr.
Warne, who introduces the author to his sister, Millie (Emily Watson),
another spinster. The two women develop a palpable bond, based
primarily on their like-minded philosophies about life. 

Precisely how Potter developed her ideology is never told, but
flashbacks to her childhood reveal an independent girl (charmingly
played by newcomer Lucy Boynton) with natural storytelling abilities
and a love for drawing the small animals she encounters while summering
in England's bucolic Lake Country with her family. It is from these
experiences that Potter fashioned her famous "Tales of..." series.

In an effort to bring Potter's experiences with the books to life on
the screen, Noonan incorporates a series of technically adept animation
sequences. These are completely effective in delivering the sweetness
of Potter's tales, and they will appeal to even the youngest viewers.
But the film offers too few of them to be satisfying. As a result they
become a tease, a sort of trailer to get us to buy the books. While
there are many reasons to buy and read Potter's books, using a film to
get us to do so feels like too much manipulation.

In all other ways this is sound and pleasurable film-making.
Performances are what one would expect from so seasoned a cast, with
Zellweger bringing her natural cherubic quality to the role of the
author. Production design (by Martin Childs), which incorporates a
color palette that matches Potter's work, and cinematography by Andrew
Dunn ("History Boys," "Mrs. Henderson") are elegant but not
ostentatious, and are reminiscent of the look of "Finding Neverland,"
another film set in turn-of-the-century England.

In the hundred or so years since Beatrix Potter created her venerated
children's series, a lot has changed in the world. One thing that
hasn't, however, is that we still love a good story, particularly one
that warms our hearts and makes us feel good about the world. "Miss
Potter" does precisely that.
<|_=00=_|>
Renee is perfect in this role, sweet, touching, funny and amazing as
usual. I have a feeling that a release just at the end of the year has
something to do with the Oscar season...And I wouldn't be surprised to
see Renee in the nominations. The drawing and special effects when she
talks to her "friends" are funny and well done. Great supporting roles,
especially Emily Watson and the chaperone part...Beautiful landscape. I
really hope the movie will attract a big audience, even though, I'm not
sure who the audience will be. Peter Rabbit and Co. are part of
everybody's childhood and it brings back a lot of memories. I'm sure a
lot of people will relate to the story. And to finish, the song at the
end is beautifully sung by Katie Melua. I totally recommend this movie!
