
I had a conversation with a friend earlier this week, regarding the
lack of effort being put into films these days. In the 21st century,
there are very few films worth seeing, in comparison to the earlier
80's, and 90's. Back then, there weren't 100's of movies being churned
out a week, with only 1 or 2 being even half decent. This is the reason
that this movie took me entirely by surprise.

The movie is centered around Chris Pratt ( Josepth Gordon-Levitt), a
partially handicapped man, in his earlier 20's. Chris used to live a
great life, have great friends, and amazing talent on the ice. Now,
after a car accident that changed his life, he suffers from slight
mental handicaps, although they are prominently random, and don't have
a major effect on the movie. Chris is still recovering from his car
crash, and trying to move up in his job. He works at "Noah's Central
Bank" as a Janitor, but has been pushing to be a teller for ages.
Desperate for companions, Chris jumps at the first person to befriend
him, and slowly falls into the wrong crowd. As Chris gets deeper and
deeper in with his group of friends, he's pressured to help them with a
robbery. Only catch: The heist is taking place at his bank.

Although the movie seems pretty straightforward, the plot can be
deceiving. First of all, if you are going to this movie expecting a
movie based solely around a bank heist ( a la Inside Man), go to
blockbusters and rent "Dog Day Afternoon". This movie focuses, for the
most part, around Chris, and his decent from an innocent, hard working
Janitor, to a confused, misled, and frustrated individual. Although not
of the same Hollywood callibur as movies such as Inside Man, it is
still easily worth the ticket. Which brings me to my next point.

After seeing this movie, I felt refreshed. I went into a movie,
expecting explosions, poor dialogue, and close ups of bodies being
blown away. I couldn't of been farther off. This movie veers away from
Hollywood, and it pulls it off miraculously. The dialogue is crisp, the
violence existing, but not overused, and the characters deep. I may
only be so impressed by this movie because of what I was expecting, but
I none the less recommend it to anyone willing to actually think during
a movie, rather than watch a bunch of cars blow up.
<|_=00=_|>
This is incredibly entertaining and solid piece of film making, by
Scott Frank. The film travels on a road that its laid out for the
audience to see steps ahead, but that never matters, b/c you are
constantly in suspense over what will happen to the incredibly well
drawn characters in the film. Frank also shows tons of directorial
flair to accompany his writing prowess. The whole cast was amazing,
Matthew Goode is completely unrecognizable and is perfect in the film.
Jeff Daniels again dons a Beard and steals his scenes, every line of
his dialog either makes you laugh, think or just compels the movie
forward, and Joseph Gordon Levitt again proves why he is capable of
being one of the next great movie stars. Go see this movie and tell
your friends to do the same.

This is the kind of film Hollywood should be making,
<|_=00=_|>
When you look at Scott Frank's writing credits --especially "Minority
Report" and "Out Of Sight"-- it is really no surprise that this is an
unusually smart and entertaining crime drama.

It is an "adult movie" in the best sense of that term.

This is a beautifully bleak looking movie where all the color is in the
characters and their behavior. The acting is top notch. I've never seen
this Levitt kid before, but he captures emotional and intellectual
numbness with a finesse I haven't seen since Guy Pierce's work in
"Memento". It is a tough role and he hits it out of the park. Jeff
Daniels is Oscar-worthy as his best friend and Matthew Goode plays a
guy who you know sheds more than one skin each year. Isla Fisher is a
welcome ray of sunlight in this dark tale.

It is the anti-"300" (which I liked a lot). This movie really sneaks up
on you, it doesn't bludgeon you but before you know it you are totally
spellbound by it.

I'll be looking forward to the next movie directed (and written) by
Scott Frank.
<|_=00=_|>
So you want a good heist film? See Dog Day Afternoon, as tense a study
in botched robbery and kidnapping to come out of the '70's as any.
Don't think the sweet Lookout will carry the same tension because it so
heavily relies on the character exposition of its protagonist, Chris
(Joseph Gordon-Levitt), that the heist is just an artful ending to an
absorbing study of depression and rehabilitation.

Chris, a rock-star hockey player in high school, terminates that
celebrity with a reckless accident that leaves him impaired emotionally
and physically. So he's easy prey for a gang that entices him to help
them rob a rural Kansas bank, where he is a janitor. Up to the point of
the gang contacting him, Chris tries heroically to perform actions in a
logical sequence. But even his family, especially his father, is
impatient with his arrested development, although they are generous in
financially supporting him as he goes on the mend.

Writer/director Scott Frank rarely lets Chris out of the frame, to good
effect, because the actor and his lamentable past draw us into his
narrow world in sympathy but not pity. Chris is determined to arrange
his life in a sequence, with the help of his notebook and roomie, a
blind and perceptive, bearded, guitar-playing Jeff Daniels, whose lines
provide humor and balancing perspective as Chris slips into the heist.
Both actors exude realistic, humorous, world weary personas that
perfectly reveal the ambivalence Chris brings to this life-defining
crime.

The Lookout is a small film, released at dumping time right after the
Oscars, but an invigorating study of humans under stress. It begs all
of us to "lookout" where we are going, either on a lonely road with our
lights turned off or in a plan to steal from farmers who have made life
possible.
<|_=00=_|>
The Lookout was an amazing movie with splendid performances all around.
It's hard to believe that Joseph Gordon Levitt was once on "3rd Rock
From The Sun". He's come along way.

After a horrible accident which killed two people, seriously wounded
another, and left Chris Pratt (Levitt) with a brain injury which makes
it nearly impossible for him to remember things without writing them
down in a notebook that he carries with him, he is no longer the cocky
hockey player. Instead he now lives his life while working as a janitor
in a bank and living with a blind roommate named Lewis (Jeff Daniels in
a fascinating performance).

While drinking at a bar, he meets the charismatic Gary Spargo (played
by Matthew Goode) who then introduces Chris to the lovely Luvlee Lemons
(Isla Fischer.) They later asked him to serve as lookout while they rob
the bank he works at. Chris at first doesn't agree, but Gary plays the
other people in Chris' life against him in subtle ways, and after Chris
finds out that some of what Gary said seems true, he agrees. The story
goes on from there, but I will not even discuss the ending.

The lookout is a strong movie, and it is the phenomenal acting which
holds the movie together the best. Scott Frank has a way of getting the
best out of his actors here, and what we get is a psychological drama
that holds your interest. At a brisk 99 minutes, it seemed over much
too quickly. Some of the later scenes in the movie felt a little
contrived I agree, but even they pale in comparison to the welcoming
acting where even the main villain (Goode) doesn't seem totally utterly
evil. Of course I can't say the same thing about his quiet henchman
with the glasses. 

I liked this movie a lot, but I do wish we could've gotten to know more
about Luvlee Lemons. Her character seem to be pushed out later in the
movie, and I found myself a little disappointed in this. Still, overall
this was a very good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
What was interesting about going to see The Lookout, for me, was the
uncertainty with Scott Frank, the screenwriter who makes his
directorial debut here. It would be one thing if he were a screenwriter
whose work I've seen was all original. If his previous screenplays had
been great original works, I'd be absolutely sure that he'd be a great
director, but because the only films he's written that I've seen have
been adaptations of Elmore Leonard novels and a Philip K. Dick story,
it was not only the first time I'd see his direction by also the first
time I'd experience his own story.

I found that the script was great. I enjoy heist films possibly more
than any other genre, and even though the heist itself is not so
intricate and clever the way I prefer them the premise that sets up the
gimmick used in the heist is quite clever. Really though, the film is
not about the heist at all. It's about a very young person whose life
is now completely different because of a car wreck that was all his
fault. He has short term memory loss and deals with its shortcomings
accompanied by horrible feelings of guilt for the deaths of his two
friends and the maiming of his girlfriend. The movie at times seems a
little uneven, because the makings of a thriller are intercut
estrangedly with the makings of a slice-of-life drama. But both sides
of the story work and it's generally fulfilling despite not being so
tightly done. The movie is, upon reflection, reminiscent of realist
films from the 1970s in its story and directorial style.

The cinematography and editing are adequate, yet strangely, in many
scenes, particularly those that take place at the main character's
family's home and those that takes place at the bank, have great
atmosphere, a coziness.

What I admire about the movie is that it avoids clich√©s that seem on
the very brink of being outrageous displays of them. For instance,
there is the friendly airhead patrol cop that stops off at the bank
every night to check up on things, bringing doughnuts and all, and we
feel as if we know what will happen with him, and even now, one can't
truly say it was or wasn't expected. The almost unbearably riveting
climax, for instance, is for heist movie fans, a near-clich√©, but wraps
up with a fresh and new take on what we would expect. The characters
are all inventive actually, and quite realistic.

Joseph Gordon-Levitt, a very young face without a name, will perhaps
have a name now due to his deep, impressive performance in the title
role. Jeff Daniels, however, has reached the point in his career where
he steals every scene he is in, a la Michael Caine or Al Pacino,
playing the sagacious and outgoing friend. Matthew Goode, playing the
lead villain, is also a major plus for the cast. Leave it to an English
actor to portray the villain with such a whispering convincing
disposition that even we almost like him at first even though we are in
on his scheme from the beginning. Greg Dunham, who plays another
would-be clich√©, the stoic sunglassed killer of only about five words
in his vocabulary, avoids clichehood by somehow drawing such intense
hatred from the audience that we are spared nothing by his cold and
ruthless behavior.
<|_=00=_|>
In 2003, in Kansas, the popular and reckless high school hockey player
Chris Pratt (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) goes to a party with his girlfriend
and two friends on the backseat of his convertible through the old
Route 24. In a moment, he turns the headlights off to admire the bright
sky and has a tragic car crash. Four years later, his head injury still
affects his memories and he uses a notebook to help him to recall his
activities. He is no longer admired and works as night janitor in the
Noel State Bank & Trust due to his mental incapacitation. He lives with
his only friend, the blind Lewis (Jeff Daniels) that he met while
recovering in a medical center, and helps him in the daily activities.
When he meets Gary Spargo (Matthew Goode) in a bar, he is introduced to
the sexy Luvlee (Isla Fisher) and has sex with her after a long period
of abstinence. Chris gets closer to Gary, and sooner he is invited to
help his gang to rob the Noel Bank. Chris is upset with his lifestyle
and sees the chance to change his life, convinced that whoever has the
money has the power.

"The Lookout" is an excellent dramatic thriller, in spite of the common
theme "bank heist. The screenplay builds perfectly the lead character
Christopher Pratt from a successful and promising teenager to a
frustrated mentally incapacitated and with remorse and guilty complex
young man, with a total lack of professional perspectives and no-longer
successful with women. The result is quite predictable, but the way the
plot is disclose is amazing. The resemblance of the talented actor
Joseph Gordon-Levitt with the recently deceased Heath Ledger is
impressive. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
This quiet, understated drama-thriller may take a while to get going,
but the characters are fascinating and Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Jeff
Daniels have a wonderful chemistry that lends the film an unexpected
heart. As a brain-damaged student and a blind wannabe entrepreneur
respectively, their relationship is very sweet and would probably work
well in a buddy comedy. 

There's a neat Fargo-like quality to a lot of the characters and
dialogue and while it covers few locations it has that convincing small
town feel.

Gordon-Levitt is a night janitor at a local bank who's targeted by a
gang and finessed into acting as a lookout while they rob it. Things -
as they must - go wrong and he has to summon all the faculties of his
fractured mind to save himself.

Isla Fisher is quite revelatory in her small role. As Luvlee she's
either rather dim-witted or incredibly cunning. Fisher's performance
hints at the deeper recesses of her character but doesn't reveal what
they hide. Luvlee is one of those rare characters where you find
yourself genuinely hoping they won't turn out to be something other
than what they appear. Ultimately there's something curiously
redemptive about Gordon-Levitt's journey, where there really shouldn't
be. It's a testament to the quality of his performance.

Overall a satisfying drama with sustained tension and some fine
performances.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those slightly odd-ball heist movies which manages to
carry off the down beat vibe and still be more-or-less convincing.
Think of it as a Fargo-lite. Gordon-Lovett, following on from his
excellent turn in "Brick",plays a College Ice Hockey star player, whose
reckless "gift" to his girlfriend ends with her maimed and two other
friends dead. Four years on, he is partially brain-damaged, confused
and a self-loathing young man, going to "special needs" class to help
deal with day-to-day tasks. No longer functioning as he was, he
maintains a part-time janitor job at night in a small town bank. The
nearest he gets to his dream ice hockey career now is using the mop as
his stick and some urinal disinfectant blocks as pucks; shooting them
into the waste bin. If he thought he had problems now; just wait until
his new found "friend" reveals why everything in his life is starting
to look up.... This has that mix of oddness that works for the most
part, such as Gordon-Lovett's dependence on his a blind friend and
flat-mate; played really well by Jeff Daniels. The main bad guy has
value, although the femme fatale, played by Isla Fisher is probably too
good to be true- and her character arc is left open-ended.

Roped and corralled into helping to rob his bank, he starts to sense
all in not right-but its too late to back out now.............

All in all, I really enjoyed this until the top-and-tail ending. In a
few narrated scenes at the end, the writer conspires to undo a lot of
the hard work. The writers pen is dropped for a broad stroke "rainbow"
paintbrush , resolving a lot of issues quite flippantly and totally
ignores others. Perhaps the director should have got a re-write, but as
he and the writer are one and the same, this was not to be!

Still, it was a good character driven piece of film-making overall and
Gordon-Lovett is one to watch. He also bears a striking resemblance to
Heath Ledger both in appearance, as well as ability.
<|_=00=_|>
Apart from the many logic holes, this movie is simply boring in a
rather unpleasant way.

Our protagonist (Chris Pratt) can't handle the lifting of a spoon at
the dinnertable, can't remember to pull out the car-key before exiting
and has a general impediment when it comes to sequencing events (sound
familiar?). Yet he is allowed to drive a car (albeit most of the time
under the supervision of a blind man) and is forgiven that he drives
around at night without the lights on. This thanks to a card he carries
around which reads that he suffered a head injury but despite the fact
that driving without lights got him his injury in the first place.

I would like to have one of them cards, I wonder what I can get away
with. Maybe robbing a bank? 

We passingly see our protagonist dealing with his life being mentally
impaired. But never is his world really explored. Never are the people
he encounters really focused on. Some flimsy scenes in some
rehabilitation centre, a hasty conversation with a therapist and some
repetitive scenes in which he can't remember how to perform everyday
actions. With subplots that go nowhere for most of the show, the movie
finally picks up some speed as the heist comes closer but this is
almost already at the end of it. I wont spoil the ending by telling you
what happens but I can safely say it's not up to much either.

The look and feel of this movie is that of plastic and so was the
acting of many of the young actors including that of leadsman Joseph
Gordon-Levitt who's performance was skin-deep throughout the whole
ordeal, never showing us anything other than confusion or acted
frustration. Jeff Daniels was the only actor able to put some weight
into his role as Chris's blind roommate Lewis, the only 'real'
character in this movie. 

At no point during this movie I was even slightly entertained and with
it's formulaic plotpoints failing to give this film some momentum and
absence of clever dialog, the viewer is rocked asleep like a baby.

The lionizing reviews here, with popular usage of the term
character-study, are uncalled-for and the current 7.5 this movie scored
here on IMDb surely will not last. At best this movie is mediocre and
had it been made in the early 90's before we had films like Memento and
the overdose of films dealing with bank robberies, it might have scored
a small 6 in my book. It being 2007 and all, I will give it a 4 in
stead.
