
Twelve years have passed since we last caught a glimpse of the
waterlogged Samara clambering out of the well; twelve years. I want you
to remember that because evidently the makers of Rings, the newest
installment in the series forgot. They forgot that the origin of their
vengeful specter has already been told and the supposed rules of
Samara's curse need maybe a refresher at most. Yet given the fact this
film simultaneously ups stakes and downplays expectations I have to
ask, what are we supposed to be looking at: a reboot? A sequel? A spin
off? I can't honestly tell you what we're supposed to be watching, but
what it looks like is a really s***ty horror movie  one that plum
forgot to bring the scary. Jump scares abound in this movie and if
that's all it takes to jolt you out of your seat then watch out for the
loud claps of car doors closing and umbrellas bursting open. Otherwise
the second scariest thing about this movie is it makes an entire rural
Georgia town look like the McPoyles from It's Always Sunny
(2005-Present).

After an absurd opening hook provided by the single worst in-flight
movie ever, the film begins with a young teenage couple inexplicably
agog about the legend of Orpheus. Male Meatbag #1 (Roe) is headed off
to college leaving Female Meatbag #1 (Ingrid Lutz) to wait for the
inevitable turkey drop back in their hometown. The film insinuates
she's taking care of a sick family member but we never see them and the
plot thread drops as soon as Male Meatbag #1 stops answering his phone.
Female Meatbag #1 becomes upset and makes her way to the guy's college
where we meet (or rather re-meet) Male Meatbag #2 (Galecki). #2 is a
biology professor who in addition to barely teaching classes also
somehow managed to start an experimental death cult to protect himself
from the cursed tape he recently found. Male Meatbag #1 is involved;
Female Meatbag #1 sees the video, Female Meatbag #2 (Teegarden) dies
and we all go on a glorious adventure to stop our flat screens from
attacking.

The main problem that every film in the Ring Series (2002-Present) has
to try to overcome is finding a second act that matters. The concept
all but requires the main source of fright and threat to bookend a
narrative dead zone whereby victims anxiously await their fates. The
Ring (2002) accomplished this with an engaging mystery. The characters
were given a clear time clock, elevated stakes and clues within the
cursed video to give the audience something to play with.

Rings attempts the same thing, but since the audience should have some
context (again it's been twelve years), we're all just twiddling our
thumbs waiting for the characters to catch up. The mystery is a
slightly different take on the curse (it's also a slightly different
video), but it hardly justifies this airless, soulless cash grab.
Especially since the Gothic atmosphere of the first is completely
absent and all we're left with to mull on is a late appearance by
Vincent D'Onofrio.

For what it's worth, supporting players Vincent D'Onofrio and Johnny
Galecki outshine the leads in this insipid film like rusted tin cans in
a rubbish tip. They're not by any means good, but they wisely play to
their strengths unlike Ingrid Lutz who looks like she's about to burst
a blood vessel trying to fake an American accent. Of course in
comparison to Roe, she actually looks like she's trying to sell her
role. Roe ambles onto the screen like a last place relay racer who
suddenly decided "I just don't give a f*** anymore." This film is a
redundant farce lacking any of the inspiration that made the first
American remake not just good but a J-horror trendsetter. The chills
and thrills are non-existent and story can't help but flounder in a sea
of inattention and indecision. What is Rings supposed to be? I honestly
think it might just be a bad joke twelve years in the making.
<|_=00=_|>
Sequels are watched based upon the strength of their predecessors. It
is known that most sequels aren't as good but sometimes the first
installment was so good that the sequel can never live up to it and nor
does it have to to be appreciated. The Ring was the scariest movie I'd
seen in 20 years. I remember being genuinely spooked when watching that
movie. Part two wasn't as good but it was watchable. Rings, on the
other hand, was trash.

We all know the premise by now: watch the video, get a phone call and
then you have seven days to live. We all know who Samara is and we all
know what she does to her victims, so that avenue is cutoff as far as
generating scares. Where do you go from there then if you want to try
to cash in on the Samara craze one more time? 

In Rings a professor discovers the Samara video and watches it. He also
finds out that in order to stop the impending death all he has to do is
record it and have someone else watch it. He then decides to turn this
into an experiment in order to answer some elusive metaphysical
questions. He ensures that all of his subjects are able to shake the
Samara curse by recording the video and having another person watch it.
Of course this would be a never ending chain of video watching but
whatever. In steps the main characters, two lovebirds that are prime
scary movie age (18-25).

The writers completely mailed this one in. There was no real thought
given to how they would revive the Samara story. There was no
legitimate path for the main character, Julia (Matilda Lutz), to be
inserted into this movie yet the writers clumsily shoe horned her in
there; which meant I had to be assaulted by her poor acting the entire
movie. In fact, I'd say that was the scariest thing: her acting.

With no fresh and innovative means to scare its audience the director
relied on cheap jump scares: suddenly opening umbrella, barking dog,
truck horn, breaking glass, etc. Not one of these lousy attempts at
spooking the viewer even managed to register a single uptick in heart
rate. This movie was lame from the word "go".

They did attempt to legitimize the movie by casting actors such as The
Big Bang Theory's Johnny Galecki and veteran actor Vincent D'Onofrio
but their talents were wasted. This movie was an abysmal failure and
even though Samara may not be dead and gone this franchise certainly
is.
<|_=00=_|>
Seven days! A simple phrase that struck terror in our hearts oh so many
years ago. Certainly, you know I'm talking of The Ring, the horror
movie about a death delivering video tape certain to scare you to
death. Samara's tale has fallen on to the backburner for some time, but
like the cursed video, the series has resurfaced to the modern world to
once more have you cowering at your screens. Will Rings live up to the
potential? Robbie K here, once more sharing his opinions on yet another
film. Let's get started. 

LIKES:  Decent acting  Nice blend into the modern era  Strong story
for a horror

Summary: Okay, this movie is certainly not going to win awards for best
performance, but Rings' cast has some skill in their performances of
college kids plagued by an evil spirit. Matilda Anna Ingrid Lutz and
Alex Roe are the leads of this tale, doing a great job of balancing
romance and detective work, finally a power couple who wasn't annoying.
And Johnny Galecki trades one nerd role for another, though this time
his scientific qualities had a little darker twist to the mix. Overall,
the cast gets a pat on the back for establishing some good characters
to hook on to. Yet the major things this reviewer liked involved the
story components of the movie. Rings has jumped into the modern area,
dropping the outdated VHS tapes for modern day MP4 files. It will help
bridge the generation gaps, and add a new element that the other
installments were missing. And the story was much stronger than I
anticipated. Rings has more mystery to it, trying to find the answers
to the elusive mystery of Samara's origins. Where it fits in the grand
scheme of things is a little up in the air, but at least there is some
character development and drama to spice things up. And as for the
ending, it too is a little ambiguous, providing some delightfully dark
closure, but still leaving it open for future installments. Not the
strongest finish, but also not bad. 

DISLIKES:  Scare Factor at A Low  Some plot elements lackluster  Not
the same Ring

Summary: Rings story may be on target, but the scare factor still
didn't reach the same levels that the first movie was able to achieve.
This installment resorted to jump out scare moments, mainly trying to
make you jump with sudden loud noises and hallucinations appearing from
out of nowhere. Many of these moments weren't well timed, and to be
honest many of the objects just weren't scary. Think of the first film
and how creepy everything was, the unknown always teasing you until
something sprung out of nowhere. All that was very diluted in this
installment. Even though they finally show you how she kills her
victims, the team didn't quite make it as horrifying as I thought it
would be (think ghost rider's soul stare without the flashy fire).
Rings was lacking this element, and had more of a mystery theme to it
than an actual horror. In addition, there were also some plot elements
that didn't shine as much as they wanted. For this reviewer, there is
still some questions they still haven't fully answered that you have to
draw yourself. The bottom line of the dislikes is that Rings didn't
quite hit the same level the first movie had all those years ago. 

The VERDICT:

In conclusion, Ring is not so much a horror movie in this round, but a
mystery film about uncovering the origins of Samara. While the cast is
decent, the story is mostly thought out, and we have some answer, it
still didn't feel like the Ring series we've come to know. If you are
looking for a movie to scare the pants off of you, sorry this isn't the
film to do it. And you can probably guess, but yours truly doesn't
recommend this one for the theater and implores you to wait until it
hits home rental stands. Only people who might enjoy this one in
theater are those who care about the story element of the movie, but I
still think you can wait for home (I mean we have been waiting twelve
years for this one right?). 

My scores are:

Drama/Horror: 6.5 Movie Overall: 5.0
<|_=00=_|>
Not much to say, after watching the "Rings". If you have seen the first
two movies, then you should just skip this one. It's a disgrace for the
series. Repiod.

Awful story, terrible acting, not even a single scary scene. Even when
Samara appears, you are not scared, but sad... Not because of her
story, but because of the series falloff...

Personally, I loved the first movie and enjoyed the second, even though
I found it mediocre. This one, however, is one of the least interesting
movies I have seen in my whole life. 

Shame, shame, shame...
<|_=00=_|>
...to not waste yours.

Remember the writers strike of 1988?

How bad a good pie recipe is without a cook? How poorly your car runs
with no gasoline? How your puppy seems lacklustre and not at all
playful since he died?

There was more suspense on Teletubbies when I didn't see the green one
for a few seconds. Remember Duckman? I did, after I struggled thru 46
minutes of this I borrowed my parents VCR and watched it instead.
<|_=00=_|>
Me and my girlfriend went to see this together, expecting it to be bad.
We are both big horror movie fans. I loved Friday the 13th, Hellraiser,
and I seriously enjoyed the new Ouija movie also. (so did my
girlfriend) anyway we went to the theater expecting a "meh" and mostly
bad movie, but this was just HORRIBLE. The acting was beyond cringe,
and we had more fun laughing and making fun of the movie then we did
actually watching the movie. Nothing made sense and it felt like they
were making it up as they went. It was not even slightly scary, long
and boring, bad acting, horrible plot, and pointless things happening
that had no connection. It also basically just re told the first story
as well. I do not recommend wasting your money on this horrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked The Ring, I even liked The Ring 2, neither were the best horror
films ever made but they had suspense, they had scary parts, and there
were some scenes I genuinely jumped. Rings was dull. While the teasers
hinted there would be more then one Sammora.... this movie barely had
one, and when she was in the movie it wasn't out of no where or scary
and much of the story is about the protagonist trying to "Save her". On
top of that the ending isn't just bad... it's predictably bad... adding
to the boringness. There was no reason this movie needed to be made and
watching it actually falls into the category of sequels that ruin a
franchise (Son of the Mask, Home Alone 4, Halloween Resurrection, Ace
Ventura Jr, Christmas Vacation 2 etc).
<|_=00=_|>
'RINGS': Three Stars (Out of Five)

The third installment in the American supernatural horror franchise,
following 2002's 'THE RING' and 2005's 'THE RING TWO'; the series is
based on the 1998 Japanese horror movie 'RINGU'. This sequel has a
college student, and his girlfriend, trying to survive the curse of
Samara Morgan; which haunts you for a week, before death, after
watching a mysterious video tape. The film was directed by F. Javier
Gutierrez, and it was written by David Loucka, Jacob Aaron Estes and
Akiva Goldsman. It stars Matilda Lutz, Alex Roe, Johnny Galecki and
Vincent D'Onofrio. The movie has been a hit at the Box Office, so far,
but (of course) it's received mostly negative reviews from critics, and
fans alike. I found it to be pretty disappointing. 

A college professor, named Gabriel (Galecki), discovers the curse of
Samara Morgan; after buying an old VCR at a garage sale, with a
mysterious tape in it. He creates a college experiment out of the
curse; where he assigns students to watch the tape, and then he finds
them someone else to show it to (which saves their lives). Holt (Roe)
is one new student that's unlucky enough to get the assignment. When
Holt's girlfriend, Julia (Lutz), doesn't hear from him, she comes
looking for him.

The film starts out pretty promising, and it's creepy enough (like the
others), but it loses it's way pretty quickly. There's definitely some
cool, and somewhat frightening, scenes in it; but they're mostly all in
the first half of the movie. This sequel is definitely not as original,
or as memorable, as it's predecessors; but it's worst crime is that
it's just boring. The first half is mildly amusing, but the second half
is definitely a bore!

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' review at:
https://youtu.be/RO7ghqXHCCY
<|_=00=_|>
Like someone already wrote on here Rings 2017 is the untimely end of
the American branch of "The Ring". And that may actually not be such a
bad thing...

This franchise killer features a cast of lame characters, that you hope
will fall prey to Samara rather quickly before their annoying screen
presence becomes too much to bear. Sadly they mostly last all the way
till the ludicrous end.

Rings 2017 is based on a poor script with a re-imagined story. Thus
this production is a rather dumbed down Reboot of the Gore Verbinsky
classic.

The camera here is flat, the music doesn't fit, the editing rushed and
uninspired. The below average acting in Rings 2017 leaves much to be
desired.

Even if this was just an American TV re-imagination of The Ring, it
would still be a bad production by those standards. 

Bottom line: if you like The Ring, you better stick to the Japanese
films. Samara is finally dead, much to the delight of her older
Japanese sister, Sadako Yamamura. Good riddance!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not really sure what I just watched but this was a far cry from the
previous two movies. The worst offense that this movie has to atone for
is the fact that it wasn't scary. Not even in the slightest sense. Keep
in mind that this was supposed to be a Horror movie.

Right from the get-go it was pretty much clear "who would make it out
of the movie alive" ["The Chosen One"-trope]. And that's why the whole
movie flopped. There was no real danger. The entire movie felt like a
"documentary" about the origin story. Also, Samara was barely in the
movie, which for the record was the main reason for my disgruntlement.

Final verdict: This movie is more of a filler. It's main purpose is to
connect the links from the past to what is yet to come. This may sound
wrong but the end of the movie was actually the best part (and it
wasn't because the movie ended. It's because we were left with an
intriguing cliffhanger. I like that). I remain hopeful for the upcoming
movie in the franchise.
