
this is a review for anyone who doesn't care that ashlee simpson is in
the movie or what it made at the box office and just want a movie to
rent because they are bored.

with that being said i found this movie entertaining. there was no
point that i felt like i wanted to turn it off or watch another movie.
i paid four bucks to rent it, do i regret it? no. i rented the movie
despite the negative reviews because most of the people commenting on
it had not seen it.

the performance of the lead actress is effective but nothing special. i
think its a crime they had shannyn sossamon cast for the movie and used
her as the worst character in the entire movie. she could have been
much better in the lead role. ashlee simpson was fine in the movie. she
wasn't great but she was just really in a sidekick role, nothing
demanding.

the plot was good enough to keep my interest, the music was really good
so i'm probably going to investigate the soundtrack and the direction
was music video-esquire, i guess you can decide for yourself if that is
a plus or a minus.

so overall if you like movies that can be classified as 'cute' but
aren't corny, if your someone who watches the OC on occasion or if you
are just looking for a movie with feeling but isn't too heavy then i
say go for undiscovered.
<|_=00=_|>
Cheesy plot? Check. Mediocre acting? Check. Stilted lines? Check.
Clich√©d Hollywood characters? Check. Undiscovered had everything you
would expect to find in a mostly bad teen movie. But it did have a few
redeeming qualities as well. Like great music, a really funny
supporting character, not to mention a lead actor who can really work a
pair of leather pants. I went to see a sneak preview of Undiscovered
expecting to make fun of it, but I walked out of the theater mostly
wanting to check out the soundtrack. The main male character, played by
Steven Strait, is a want-to-be rock star who has a ten second encounter
with a pretty girl on a New York subway. Fast forward two years, the
two meet again in Hollywood. Then, in what seemed to be a highly
contrived plot point, the girl, now a successful model, decides to
fast-track the guy's career, all while pretending she doesn't like him.
Fast forward a few months, the guy's career is taking off, but the pair
are still in limbo. I won't say anymore about the plot. Suffice it to
say that while the script and story seemed a little forced, and I was
pretty sure the director/photographer wanted to make me throw up with a
lot of shaking hand-held close-ups, Undiscovered had a pretty good cast
of up and comers and a great soundtrack. I was really surprised by
Ashlee Simpson, and actually walked out of the theater with more
respect for her than when I walked in. Who knew the girl could actually
sing.
<|_=00=_|>
Luke (Strait) and Brier (James) are two beautiful young people who have
a chance encounter on a New York subway. Shortly later, they both go to
L.A. to find fame, he as a rock star and her as an actress, but when
they run into each other again, they have to decide whether their
relationship is strong enough to withstand "the business." Undiscovered
was named by many as the worst film of 2005. I can't say I really agree
with that. The movie is kind of weak but it's still tolerable and it's
also pretty harmless. The premise is fairly interesting even if it's
not very original. The execution is only average but still much better
than expected. The romance is pretty weak though and just not very
interesting. The two leads don't have enough chemistry to make the
movie work. There are a few moments of intrigue and some nice
performances but the end result is still unsatisfying. The reason the
film is kind of lackluster is because of the writer and the director.
John Galt wrote the screenplay and he fails to really add anything new
to this movie. Also, Meiert Avis just keeps everything by the numbers
without adding any surprises.

The acting is only okay with Carrie Fisher giving the best performance.
She isn't given a lot of screen time but she still manages to give a
few funny lines. Pell James is pretty good as Brier Tucket. She has
that "model" look and she has an engaging quality that kept focusing my
attention to her. Steven Strait is only okay as Luke. He's a little
dull but he has that "rock star" look that suited the character. Ashlee
Simpson plays Clea and she is actually only a supporting character in
the movie. Her performance is surprisingly average (like the film) but
she should stick to singing. Shannyn Sossamon was just annoying and not
funny while Kip Pardue was only okay.

I think the supporting characters really kept this movie moving. The
scenes between Clea and Brier were pretty nice and engaging. Most of
the characters were also pretty likable so the viewer at least cares
for a happy ending. The ending was surprisingly good but very obvious.
The music wasn't as painful as I was expecting it to be. I don't really
like the type of music that was performed in the film but some of the
songs were decent. Of course, there were a few cheesy songs but they
can't all be winners. I think the movie was unfairly bashed because of
Ashlee Simpson's appearance. However, she didn't bring down the movie
and the film itself wasn't horrible. In the end, Undiscovered isn't
worth checking out but it's not a travesty either. Rating 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Undiscovered" tells the story of an up and coming musician who happens
to run into a model once in New York then two years later after they
have both separately moved to L.A. The two have a loose relationship
and the film is more detached than anything, be it bad acting or bad
writing I felt I did not get to know the characters true feelings. I
felt that the film had a good story but was just not portrayed the way
I think it should have been. These characters should have had tons of
emotions but it just never came. It seemed that they were not moving
and feeling the way they should have been,especially with the
reoccurring scenes where the two who,I was supposed to be convinced,
where in love coming together again and again. The film was not totally
what I expected it to be and I believe that it could have been better
taken advantage of by use of character emotions and camera movements at
the right time.
<|_=00=_|>
OK lets just sum it up for everyone boy meets girl in corny subway
scene then they meet up a couple years later they sleep together then
they break up he makes it big time as a singer and he becomes mean (it
was shocking NOT) then he becomes nice they meet at the airport and get
back together and he decides to become a writer WOW that was sooo lame
and boring i left to go to the bathroom and i actually looked for a way
to escape lol. o and of course ashlee simpson sings b/c then the movie
wouldn't of even made it to theaters. and the main characters name is
breyer why didn't they just name her turkey hill or edys. and wat ever
moron played Breyer did a terrible job i mean horrid.i clapped when it
was over i think i was the loudest in the whole theater.
<|_=00=_|>
Although not the most sophisticated movie. Storyline is cute and Steven
Strait, Pell James and Ashlee Simpson were pretty good. Some line
didn't make sense and the sceen where he's acting like a rock star on
stage not even noticing the groupie and Josie fighting over him was a
little ridiculous and tacky. It may not be up to par with other really
good romantic movies such as Notting Hill, Sleepless in Seattle, Pride
and Prejudice, The Princess Bride, Pretty woman, When harry met
sally.(I can add a lot more but I be sitting here for a good solid hour
or so)Aside from all those movies it still is cute feel good (if you're
a sap like me) movie. PS. The soundtrack's awesome too.
<|_=00=_|>
Undiscovered was a typical romance drama/coming-of-age film for
20-something's with no backbone or intrigue. I watched it for Shannyn
Sossamon because she's played these great characters in the past with
very little going on in their lives, but in this film, she's this
Brazilian model-type who seems very much in the wrong film (the
character does anyways).

I don't know what US Weekly was smoking when they proclaimed on the
back of the DVD "Ashlee Simpson shines as a punky inspiring
singer-actress." Simpson was basically playing a girl with no real
depth and a horrible nasal voice. I do however believe in what the New
York Post said about Pell James, that "(she) is adorable and winsome,
she's a romantic star in the making." She might be a not-so-well-known
actress, but she was a well cast lead girl for this film. But the main
"dude," Steven Strait, is just a big baby with too much of his heart on
his shoulder, and his knack for writing lame songs in the movie just
puts the character in the ground.

I really only liked a few things about the movie. 1) Carrie Fisher. She
hasn't been in a whole lot of films as of late, so it was good to see
her as a lead role in the model/actress' career. 2) The chick fight in
the Viper Room scene. That's always killer. And 3) The small joke about
the main singer guy having arachnophobia (told by his agent at Tantra
Records).

The rest of the film has been done before by better actors. There was
boring music (which consisted of acoustic sets and U2 ripoff songs), a
ridiculous back and forth love story which makes you want to turn the
DVD off ahead of time, the dude acting like a baby through most of the
film because he finds out that his contract was helped out by Brier
(the main girl) and it wasn't because of his lame songs, and there was
even a ridiculous chant that the Tantra Records' associates go into
after deleting this guy from the label. I really didn't get the line
when she calls up this musician guy and adds "I know. This is
borderline stalking you." Hello? He's been obsessing about you the
whole movie, not the other way around.

I had to give the film a 3/10. It was shot well, but their was no
driving force that kept my attention to the screen without reminding me
of how much of a cable TV movie this is. I hope this was just made to
give Ashlee Simpson a film career because if the writer really felt
depth in this script, I would start to lose hope in the future of film.
<|_=00=_|>
The fact that Ashlee Simpson was booed off the stage at last years
Orange Bowl should have provided plenty of evidence as to her lack of
singing talent and abilities . Now we have Undiscovered as proof that
she cannot act either . As Clea she is without a doubt clueless on what
an actual actor does. Inhabit the role and make it your own not simply
mug for the camera. This is another effort from a music vid director
Meiert Avis. Where do these people get their names ? Of course the
script is hideous and story threads disappear at an alarming rate .
Dropping a glove in a train station one of the protagonists drops the
other one in a moment of foreshadowing that 'real' ;ove will develop
with the mystery man . What a joke ! It won't be long before the
Simpson girls are back living in their daddies double wide trailer out
in hicks ville .
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is called UNDISCOVERED, and it should have stayed that way.
We find totally uninspiring characters, a weak plot and some
self-conscious acting. It fails to ignite, never making it's mind up
about what it really wants to be and in the end leaves the viewer with
total indifference. There are obvious attempts a edgy camera-work and
innovative cinematography but in the end that also fails miserably. Due
to the aimless script the viewer never develops any sympathy or empathy
for any character. This movie lasts roughly 90 minutes, which is about
88 minutes too long. The best part of the whole thing is one or two
Ashley Simpson songs, and that's not even overly impressive.
<|_=00=_|>
Thought the plot, the characters, the setting, and especially the music
fit in every way the tunes, especially "Smart In A Stupid Way" and
"Boomerang". Undiscovered has a musician's feel that non-musician's
could easily miss. Life of musicians is hectic enough, as in all areas
of performing arts. Add to that formula an attempt at true romance
while trying to pull it all off with an artist's feel, even by actors
playing musicians, and that's quite a feat. This movie was obviously
not meant to be some chromed rich kid glamor story about rock
musicians. It's a picture of real life in the quest for fame and
musical discovery, which in final leans more to the side of musical
creation than performing. Thus its setting has that raw quality of down
to earth smelly club carpet intermixed with a glamor chase, eventually
resulting in neither, but instead a down home one on one relationship
with one's music and one's lover.

The soundtrack is excellent, the pop song composition is rich, and the
musical performers are 'tight'. Some of the AR record scouts are slimy,
which is not totally accurate in the real world, but enough to get the
point across in the movie that songwriting carries many more benefits
than performing.
