
Rarely have I seen animated family sequel movie that's as good or
better than its predecessor but speaking as a movie freak who didn't
like the first installment, I gotta say I'm very much entertained by
MADAGASCAR: ESCAPE 2 Africa and it way funnier than the original movie.
Dreamworks has a habit of doing this what it lacks in its story and
overall animation (Pixar still rules in those departments!) it makes up
for it in its sense of humor. This is the movie that every age can
enjoy and it has only a very, very few silly, lame moments but for the
most part, you just got to move it, move it! The whole team is back, it
doesn't take long for you to remember what each character is all about,
there's no need for re-introduction but there is a bunch of new
characters thrown in to the den without having to take us in
unnecessary complication of having to understand what they are. The
concept is simple and the jokes are funny. Here you see all the
characters stranded in Africa and meet a their own kind. It's the
freedom they've always wanted but don't really want at the same time.
They have trouble fitting in and getting in touch with their heritage,
all the while friendship and feelings are being put to the test
resulting in an exciting adventure at the end that brings them closer
together again. Kids will love it, Parents will be glad about it, and
the rest of us will find it to be very amusing.

MADAGASCAR: ESCAPE 2 Africa will feel like too short of a movie, but
that's also something that I can appreciate because I don't think it
has any intention of trying to be all Oscar worthy, it's nothing more
than telling a light, enjoyable story with good moral value lesson and
that's about it. If the running time were any longer, it would lose
some of its target audience. Hands down, without dragging this review
any more than it has to, the best part of this movie once again, are
the penguins! Those dudes are hardcore gangsters and freakin'
hilarious! They should have their own spin-off, stand-alone movie, just
about them scheming something deviant and mission impossible-esquire. I
could watch them work together and hear their smartass, cocky
remarks/attitude about a thousand more times and they'll still crack me
up. If you find no reason to watch this movie, then at least watch it
to check out those awesome penguins.
<|_=00=_|>
Ben Stiller, Chris Rock, David Schwimmer and Jada Pinkett Smith are
back in their animated animal roles which 3 years ago saw their zoo
animals being transported to Madagascar in a typical fish out of water
tale, where they had to rely on their street smarts and friendship to
survive in an environment they do not fully understand. While it's the
usual pop-culture jokes and witty one liners that plague recent
animated films, there were some gems in that movie, the ones which
stuck suck as the crowd favourite penguins stealing the whole show, as
well as the madcap rave party tune Move It!

Beginning directly where we last saw Alex the Lion (Stiller), Marty the
Zebra (Rock), Melman the Giraffe (Schwimmer) and Gloria the Hippo
(Smith), the penguins have finally built a plane that ought to bring
our merry crew back to New York, together with Julien the lemur (Sacha
Baron Cohen) and his sidekick (Cedric the Entertainer), but of course
should that happen, there'll be no sequel to begin with. So we have the
crew crash land into the continent Africa, thereby guaranteeing yet
another tale of being from the outside, but now having a habitat that's
much closer to their natural environment, one which sees the animal
types in question grouped together into one reserve for storytelling
convenience.

Directed by Eric Darnell and Tom McGrath, who also provided the voice
of Skipper the head penguin, the storyline might seem like a poor man's
cousin to Disney's The Lion King, what with exiles and alpha-lions
battling it out to be king of the habitat. The filmmakers had taken the
opportunity to craft the backstory for Alex a little more, so that the
main plot of his return to his home could be dwelled upon, with sub
plots for the others to fall into place. You have Alex's return and
reunion with his parents, with adversary coming from an earlier
generation, there's Marty who discovers that he's no longer unique but
the same as every other hundredth zebra out there, Glora looking for
love with other hippos now that there's no lack of suitors, and Melman
fighting his own cowardice to reveal his feelings for Gloria, as well
as being appointed the witch doctor for the land.

And if you think that the primary voice cast is already A-list, the
film piles on to that list with the likes of the late Bernie Mac
voicing Zuba the alpha-lion, Alec Baldwin again in a villainous role as
his rival Makunga, and Will.i.am of Black Eyed Peas in a hilarious role
of hippo-Casanova Moto Moto (the name's so good you have to say it
twice!) The songs department falls up a bit short this time round,
though thankfully "Move It!" wasn't conveniently and lazily played
ad-nauseam. Given the army of illustrators working on the project, you
can't expect quality to drop from its predecessor, though there's
nothing new to be injected into a mature presentation.

Despite the plundering of the same old family values / theme /
storyline and the importance of establishing strong friendships, this
new Madagascar managed to deliver on multiple fronts, joining the ranks
of the few whose sequels are superior than the original. The comedy
which got piled up here managed to work through the punchlines, leading
to a number of characters like the monkeys and even the tough-cookie
granny to steal some limelight from the lovable penguins. If you liked
the original, then you'e likely to fall in love with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought that the first Madagascar had promising characters and a
decent premise, but it was very poorly put together. My son, who was 8
or 9 at the time loved the movie, however. We saw the sequel this
morning and we both agreed - it was much better than the original. And,
since part II begins with a brief summary of part I, there is no need
to see the first one to understand what's happening in the new movie.
All the main characters are back and there are many new ones as well.
Going in, the big question on my mind was "do the penguins play a
bigger role in the sequel?"... answer is "Yes, but not much bigger".
All in all an enjoyable movie that outshines it's predecessor!
<|_=00=_|>
As with the comment ahead of mine: it's all about the penguins. They
should have their own movie.

We were chanting: more penguins, more penguins. At the screening we
just saw, people who loved the first Madagascar movie waited excitedly
for the magic to begin... I LOVED the first one. Interesting note: I
liked the first one better, but my BF thinks this one has a better and
deeper plot and pointed out in particular that while in the first one
Gloria (the hippo) was the butt of many fat jokes, in this one she is
celebrated just for being beautiful.

The whole movie is breathtakingly beautiful. We didn't see this on IMAX
but I bet the IMAX version will be a treat.

Sascha Baron Cohen's King is again the hands-down favorite, I heard a
ripple of joy murmur through the theater at everything he said and did,
although my personal favorites (after the Penguins) are Maurice and
Mort, the King's cohorts.

BF was also teasing me mercilessly because (and I'm nearly ashamed to
admit it) there's one scene that had me totally teared up! Yes, I
cried. Can't spoil it - go see the movie and tell me after if you know
what choked me up! The film did not hold the attention of some of the
very small children at the screening we saw, because some portions of
the film only involve adult storyline concerning the adult star
characters (Alec Baldwin, Jada Pinkett Smith, Chris Rock, and so forth)
but when the little characters are on screen (the baby lion in
particular is DARLING) the children present were absolutely captivated.

It's fun. It's not the greatest movie of all time, but it's very fun
and children will want to watch it again and again.
<|_=00=_|>
The original Madagascar was a break from the typical mold in family
animated entertainment; it was fearless, didn't slow down to teach a
lesson, and was not afraid of entertaining solely on physical humor.
The content was light, but it was so satisfying that it wound up being
Dreamwork's second best animated movie of them allbehind Shrek. The
zany cast of characters easily exceeds the number of memorable
characters in Shrek, and contained more humor and creativity than all
of the other Dreamworks animated flicks before and ever since.

In the second installment, you see the writers trying to give the
franchise a dosage of heart and sentimentality, which is what made
Shrek the instant classic it became. A bit of heart can definitely
propel an animated movie into masterpiece status (see Toy Story and
Finding Nemo) however this is not the franchise to do it. Madagascar is
about the cast and how they interact with each other and the conflict
that is presented onto them. While the laughs are definitely here, the
attempt for emotion constantly makes this film slows down and keeps it
from being a superior installment when placed against the original.
That being said, it's still a fun, entertaining, and unpredictable
movie that continues the zaniness that made the original a personal
guilty pleasure of mine.

In Escape 2 Africa, we follow the New York zoo animals, the psychotic
penguins, the monkeys, and the lemur leaders as they unexpectedly are
stranded in the middle of Africa. While at first the main four (Marty,
Alex, Melman, Gloria) are rather happy at their new environment, they
quickly realize that it's not all that it seems, and that their new
temporary home is splitting the four apart. In the meantime, the
penguins attempt to repair the plane that they accidentally destroyed.
The writers did a good job in presenting all sorts of new gags and yet
again refrain from referencing pop culture too much (although the
Twilight Zone nod was hilarious). But, they couldn't deliver the
emotional impact because of one main reason: this franchise wasn't
meant to ever slow down in terms of pacing. Like a roller coaster, this
movie moves sometimes extremely fast, and then can grind into a halt in
the next scene. Lastly the main four don't interact much with each
other, but more with the environment. There literally are at least 8
plots happening at oncesome of them are good, some of them aren't.

The voice acting remains decent, but there are fewer lines by the
original cast, and more from supporting characters and new characters.
Bernie Mac, rest in peace, but his performance was rather bland and
could have been done by anyone else. Alec Baldwin didn't have much of a
chance to lend his comedic skills either. Yet again, the penguins and
Sacha Baron Cohen steal every scene they are in, no matter how mediocre
the previous scene was. Cohen (as Julien) has an obvious knack for
comedy, and delivers every line perfectly for two movies in a row; not
bad at all. Ben Stiller had fewer chances at being funny, as they had
to handle all the major slower moments. Chris Rock's role was
surprisingly limited, especially for someone who did so well in the
original.

The one major improvement from the original was the animation, which
was crisp, fluid, and flowed better. Surely it's undeniably no Wall-E
(Or even 2007's Ratatouille), but it's still respectably an improvement
over previous work. The jokes themselves are hit-and-miss like the
original; the only difference is this one has more misses. Plus it's
the recurring jokes that are missing; the hula girl, feisty tourist,
repetitive herd, and lion-dancing bits all didn't elicit much laughter
from the audience, nor from me. We just needed much more Julien, and
much more penguin-action. Maybe in the future the focus will shift; in
the meantime they are just grabbing all the spotlight and attention.

Bottom Line: Exactly what Scrat did to Ice Age: The Meltdown years ago,
we have minor/supporting characters becoming the main hit and running
the show. While the original four characters take a backseat and add
emotion to a franchise that's too fast-paced for this sort of stuff, we
have the penguins and Julien taking over the movie and keeping it from
being another totally disappointing animated sequel like every
straight-to-video Disney sequel, the ugly Shrek sequels, or Ice Age 2.
The entertainment level is still magnificent the second time around,
but it won't age as well as the first Madagascar did. Leave the heart
to Pixar, because those folks have nailed it perfectly for years.
Dreamworks can serve as the escapist cinema in terms of animation, but
if they continue imitating and try to outdo Pixar, it will just dampen
the quality of all their movies. Madagascar 2 is the prime example of
this: purely fun and entertaining until it tries to distribute family
values. Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa is also proof that those hilarious
penguins need their own movie, pretty much immediately.

Yes, right now.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a fan of the first Madagascar film, I know there are a lot of
people who dissed it, but I thought it was cute. So when I saw the
trailer for Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa, I was excited. I saw it on
Friday and I absolutely enjoyed this fun family film. I think this even
had a more coherent plot as well, plus how could you not love the
penguins? They are absolutely hilarious and need their own movie, maybe
a Full Metal Jacket with penguins! Anyways, I loved the characters so
much, they're back and better than ever. They even ended up giving the
little old lady from the first Madagascar who fought Alex the Lion, she
has a bigger role and was so awesome to watch and listen too. I think
the jokes were even funnier than the first Madagascar, my favorite
scene without a doubt was the plane sequence in the beginning. But the
whole story was just a blast to watch.

Alex, Marty, Gloria, and Melman are still looking to go back to Africa,
everything seems to be a good and they start to fly back with the
penguins as well as Julien. But the plane runs out of fuel and crashes,
they are still in Africa, but bump into an animal pack where Alex finds
his long lost parents, Marty finds out that all zebras are like
him(imagine being surrounded by 1,000 Chris Rocks*shudder*), Gloria has
a hunky hippo who is crushing on her, and Melman becomes the giraffe
witch doctor of his group. Alex is about to be initiated into his
pride, but one lion does not want him part of the group and will do
anything to become leader.

Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa is definitely worth your watch, it's not
the animated film of the year, but it was a lot of fun to watch. It
kind of reminded me of The Lion King a little bit, it has a similar
story. It's a great family film and is fun for both the kids and the
adults as well. Although I still think it's funny that Alex is voiced
by Ben Stiller and his dad is voiced by Bernie Mac, but it's all good,
who knows, maybe Alex's dad just had a little more soul in him. I would
recommend this film, it was a lot of fun to watch and I suggest we
write in a script for those penguins! They're a blast to watch on
screen.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie really will give you a good laugh. It is about a new
adventure of the four friends: Alex the lion, Melman the giraffe, Marty
the zebra, Gloria the hippo. On the trip back to New York, they had an
air crash and came to Africa instead. There, they found their roots and
also came across some difficulties. In this movie, there are many
supporting roles. And among them, the four little penguins played an
important part and even covered the other main roles for their genius
and humor. From the very beginning, the four penguins spoofed the
DreamWorks icon. As for their popularity, the DreamWorks even planned
to make a film about the Madagascar Penguins. I'm really looking
forward to it. In this movie, the film makers pictured us an amazing
Africa with wild animals and beautiful landscapes. The visual effects
are pretty good and impressing. And I like the theme song "Move It",
really making me full of energy and feel the desire of dancing with the
characters. The last scene when Marty said that "Love has no boundary",
I can't agree more. And I think that this does not only apply to love
between lovers but also apply to love between friends and family. All
in all, this is quite a funny movie and worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really excited about seeing the sequel to Madagascar, because I
really loved the first and thought it was one of the best animations of
the decade, regardless of how underrated it is, and this looked just as
good, and in my opinion it almost was. Both of them are excellent films
that are nothing but fun and are super energetic from the moment they
come on screen, and this just made me appreciate the first even more
than I already did, and am even looking forward to a third installment.
The quality of this film might seem more fast paced and careless, but
it is just as lovable. 

When it started up, I was immediately sucked in, and I never became
uninterested and it never stopped entertaining, because they did an
excellent job at keeping your attention just like the first. There were
some parts in the movie where I felt as if they tried too hard to
please the audience and then others it got a little dumb and boring,
but overall I laughed insanely and was very pleased. When it was over I
wanted to watch it again. It's a great sequel to a great movie and I
enjoyed watching it as much as the first, as I have said. Some
hilarious scenes like the plane crash, any scene with Moto Moto and of
course Mort are lovable too. It's story is touching and fantastic as
well, go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this at a discount movie theater ($2.50 a seat) and that's
about what it's worth. Don't watch it expecting some major innovative
work of art - it isn't, nor was it meant to be. It's purely fun fluff.

Without a doubt, the penguins steal the show. Their banter and antics
are just downright hysterical. Granny on the other hand, needs to be
retired. A cameo of her might have been funny, but she is overused to
the point of irritation.

The ill-fated aircraft ride is a raucous ride, but after that the story
splits into four or five (at least) concurrent sub-plots, so enough
time isn't really given to each, and the pacing tends to jerk along in
spurts. Basically it seems as if the filmmakers just strung together
scenes of the funniest supporting characters from the original then
tried to wrap it around a Lion King send-up.

All that said, I actually liked this one better than the original. Not
every movie is intended to be a piece of ground-breaking cinematic
artistry and this certainly isn't. But it IS just downright fun to
watch. Now if Dreamworks would just give the penguins their OWN
full-length picture...
<|_=00=_|>
Well, so far "Madagascar" is two-for-two in the laughs department. This
is just as good, if not better, than the first film.

It's another good example of the "new" (last 10 years) kind of animated
feature film that adults can enjoy just as much as the kids. In some
cases, perhaps like this one, adults would laugh even more because many
of the gags might over the kids' heads. I'm not talking sexual
innuendos, just references to things older people could recognize.

It isn't just the writing that is excellent; the artwork is
spectacular, especially on Blu-Ray. The colors and the detail are just
amazing! More than once, my jaw dropped at what I was seeing on the TV
screen. Like the first Madagascar, the high-def images are truly
spectacular.

The combination of humor, drama, family and friendship ties and romance
all make this a wonderful animated movie and the 90 minutes zip by.
