
A truly heart wrenching story, "Margaret" reiterates Kenneth Lonergan's
gifts for dialogue, story, and his ability to treat the most dramatic
themes with artful humor, awareness and perception. The acting is
exceptional; even relatively small parts, (played by actors such as
Matthew Broderick, Matt Damon, Mark Ruffalo, and Allison Janey)
showcase both the actors' own remarkable abilities as well as
Lonergan's attention to detail. It is Matthew Broderick's character who
is the only one to utter the movie's title as he recites a poem by
Gerard Manley Hopkins. J. Smith Cameron and Anna Paquin, who play
mother and daughter, both deliver fierce performances which form the
relationship that serves as the backbone of the film. Taking on issues
from abortion, divorce, and death to the inherent isolation of being
human, the movie has a life and humor to it which cannot be brought
down by the weightiness of these issues.
<|_=00=_|>
With the A-list cast, it is incredible that no one noticed that this
film makes very little sense. 

There is so much wrong with it, it is hard to begin. Scenes run on and
on without advancing the story. Scenes are cut without reason. This
film is badly in need of editing. Margaret is a very long movie with
very little story to tell. 

The story wanders everywhere. It is essentially a story about a
17-year- old woman, Lisa Cohen, who is partly responsible for the death
of a pedestrian in New York City. The heroine, played by Anna Paquin,
is annoying from the beginning when she is caught cheating on her math
exam by her teacher, played by Matt Damon. He indulges her belief that
she is entitled to do so.

Later that day she distracts a bus driver, played by Mark Ruffalo, in
order to find out where he bought his cowboy hat. Instead of watching
where he is going, the driver kills a woman in the crosswalk. The woman
dies in Lisa's arms. She lies to the investigating officer at the scene
and reports that the bus had the green light. She later experiences the
discomfort of guilt.

The rest of the film involved this young woman making a nuisance of
herself to pretty much everyone she meets. She changes her story. She
wants to meet the family of everyone involved in the tragic death. She
wants the bus driver fired. She wants to move to California to live
with her father. She has sex for the first time without really knowing
her partner. She tries to have sex with her teacher at school. She
argues with everyone. 

Jean Reno adds contrast to the ensemble. He plays a nice, interesting
man who injects a little reason and depth to the story, so you know he
has to die unexpectedly so that there are no agreeable people left in
story.

The script is about unhappy, ethically-challenged, unpleasant people
bickering about morality, about Israel and Palestine, about whatever,
and then there is psychobabble. These people go after each other at the
slightest provocation. 

At some point, a civil lawyer is retained. The lawsuit makes no sense.
The involvement of the heroine, who was partly responsible for the
death, in every aspect of the suit goes beyond incredible. The
beneficiaries of the suit lie about how much they liked the dead woman.
The lawyer encourages this. There are speeches about morality made by
people aren't very moral. 

It is a long, long movie that makes you wish you were hit by the bus
instead.
<|_=00=_|>
MARGARET is and has been a troubled movie - sophisticated examination
of one girl's post- traumatic transformation as part of a larger point
about how one's notion of importance is dwarfed by the larger
worldview. Written and directed by Kenneth Lonergan and shot in 2005 as
a three-hour film, the movie has remained on the shelves since its
completion in 2007 over legal problems and finally is available for
viewing in a 150-minute version. Though it has flaws it contains some
of the most sophisticated dialogue and philosophical points about where
we are in our society today that the editing glitches become secondary
background noise in a compelling film. The title (no one in the film is
named Margaret) references the Gerald Manley Hopkins poem 'Spring and
Fall: to a young child' which is quoted at the top of this review.

MARGARET focuses on a 17-year-old New York City high-school student
Lisa (Anna Paquin) who feels certain that she inadvertently played a
role in a traffic accident that has claimed a woman's life, Monica
(Allison Janney): Lisa was chasing a bus whose driver Maretti (Mark
Ruffalo) ran a red light because of Lisa's distraction trying to
discover where the Maretti bought his cowboy hat. Monica dies in Lisa's
arms while asking for her daughter also named Lisa (we later learn
Monica's daughter died at age 12 from leukemia). Lisa at first feels
sorry for Maretti, thinking that if she tells the truth Maretti will
loose his job and his family support. Lisa's actress mother Joan (J.
Smith-Cameron) encourages her to not give accurate testimony to the
police, a decision Lisa follows and spends the rest of the film
regretting, and in making attempts to set things right she meets with
opposition at every step. Torn apart with frustration, she begins
emotionally brutalizing her family, her friends, her teachers, and most
of all, herself. She has been confronted quite unexpectedly with a
basic truth: that her youthful ideals are on a collision course against
the realities and compromises of the adult world.

The world that Lisa occupies includes teachers - played by Matt Damon
(who crosses a forbidden line when Lisa seeks his advice as the only
truly adult man she knows, Matthew Broderick whose class discussions
over literature are brittle and acerbic and deeply disturbing - her
introduction to adolescent needs and physical incidents at the hands of
John Gallagher, Jr. (now of The Newsroom fame), Paul (Kieran Culkin) -
her relationship with her needy single mother Joan whose newly dating
Ramon (Jean Reno), her contact with the deceased's friend Emily
(Jeannie Berlin - brilliant), and the deceased's only family - all in
an attempt to somehow set things right but Lisa admitting that she is
as responsible for Monica's death as is Maretti. But the world outside
can't cope with anything but financial compensation as the resolution
to Lisa's angst.

There are many other characters brought to life by some VERY fine
actors and the stunning musical score by Nico Muhly includes moments at
the Metropolitan Opera where we actually get to see and hear Christine
Goerke as Bellini's Norma singing 'Casta Diva' and Ren√©e Fleming and
Susan Graham singing the Barcarolle from Offenbach's Tales of Hoffman,
allowing the opening and closing of the film to be accompanied by a
quiet guitar piece, as well as proving Muhly's very highly accomplished
music to underscore the moods of the film. The cinematography by
Ryszard Lenczewski underlines the tension - form the imagery of slow
motion crowd movement in New York during the opening sequences to the
stabilization of important encounters between the characters. A lot is
said and screamed and the level of communication and actions by Anna
Paquin's Lisa alienate the audience at times, but the film makes some
very solid statements about how we are acidly interacting or not
connecting in our current state of society. That deserves attention.
The film requires a lot form the audience, but in this viewer's mind it
is well worth the time. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
On the day of its cinema release, Kenneth Lonergan's long-gestating
drama was the most successful film in the UK. Problem was, it only
opened on one screen. The story of Margaret's production is likely a
fascinating story in itself, not least because of Martin Scorsese and
Thelma Schoonmaker's input into the final edit, which was presumably a
return favour for Lonergan's work on the screenplay for Gangs of New
York. But I'll focus on the fascinating story that Lonergan has told
with this film.

Ostensibly the tale centres on a New York schoolgirl named Lisa (Anna
Paquin, defining her young adulthood just as she defined herself in
childhood with The Piano), who inadvertently causes a fatal road
accident. What follows is the emotional aftermath, fought outwardly
with her mother, as a moral and ethical war wages within her
hormone-ravaged body.

The performances are excellent throughout, particularly Paquin and J.
Smith-Cameron as the daughter and mother caught in gravitational flux.
Jean Reno gives fine support as the sad-sack Ramon, while Matthew
Broderick delivers the poem (by Gerard Manley Hopkins) that provides
the film's title, while suggesting the entire life of his character by
the way he eats a sandwich. It's that kind of film. 

I recently wrote a review of Winter's Bone, which I described as an
anti-youth movie. Margaret could be a companion piece in this regard,
cautioning against the bright-eyed naivety of youthful independence,
and promoting the importance of family. Like Winter's Ree, Lisa is a
lost soul; unlike Ree, Lisa is not someone we admire. But she is always
in focus; Lonergan expects not for us to like her, only to understand
her. In maintaining this focus, Lonergan himself achieves the
admirable: weaving a narrative whose minute details and labyrinthine
arguments mirror the broader existential vista against which they are
dwarfed. 

Margaret goes deeper than Winter's Bone, delivering something
pleasingly unexpected: a kind of Sartrean modern fable about the
isolating nature of subjectivity. Like her actor mother on the stage,
and like us all in our semi-waking lives, Lisa is the main player in
her great opera. She performs the social functions that enable her to
cling to a sense of belongingness, but something gnaws at her soul. And
when, after the accident, she seeks some kind of meaning, she is met at
once by indifference, before being seduced by those very institutions
that make indifference normal. Nothing in the material world satisfies
Lisa; nothing can match her aspirations. The suggestion here, I feel,
is that our despair emerges from the disparity between that which we
hope for and that which reality can deliver. 

No wonder it took so long to find its way to a single UK screen: a
three-hour existentialist play is a tough sell. Ten years after the
towers sank to Ground Zero, Margaret joins There Will Be Blood, The
Assassination of Richard Nixon, and (for some) Zodiac in the pantheon
of modern classics that map the American psyche in the post-9/11 world.
<|_=00=_|>
Note: This review reflects the 149 minute version.

A privileged New York high school junior literally shepherds a dying
woman to the other side after she's hit by a bus. The driver,
distracted by the junior, Lisa (Paquin), runs a red light and flattens
the woman. "Margaret" is Lisa's reconciliation of a youthful outlook to
one more adult. It's a premise sounding far more promising than the
result.

The title derives from the Hopkins' poem, "Spring and Fall" (1880)

"To a young child 

Margaret, are you grieving / Over Goldengrove unleaving? / Leaves, like
the things of man, you / With your fresh thoughts care for, can you? /
Ah! as the heart grows older / It will come to such sights colder. . ."

A talented filmmaker, Mr. Lonergan crafted "You Can Count On Me," a
sharply observed tale of two siblings in crisis. He also wrote the
entertaining yet trivial "Analyze This," "Analyze That," and the
disappointing "Gangs of New York." "Margaret" is an attempt to thumb
his nose at those trivialities. Instead, he rubs intellectual snobbery
and pretense into the audience's nose; the attempt at drawing parallels
between Lisa's quest and world politics arrives at the table still raw
and is uncomfortably didactic. 

Some reviewers crowed, "Masterpiece! Masterpiece!" ("The New York
Times" printed a feature article about "Margaret.") A troubled history
and abysmal box office are the counterpoints. While at times masterful
and somewhat intriguing, "Margaret" is, at its gooey center, an
overlong meander with a theme cobbed from a poem. One wonders what the
36 additional minutes in Lonergan's cut (for an astonishing, snoozy 185
minutes) add to this already plodding misfire.

The completion of this film has been the subject of a few lawsuits. The
legal wrangling led to a film wrested from Lonergan's hands to be
edited by Schoonmaker and Scorcese. Fear not, Masochists. The DVD
features both cuts.

Wasted! Wasted! Wasted! Broderick, Damon, Reno, Ruffalo, Janney
(particularly the wonderful Janney - the accident victim). The hapless
characters could easily have been handled by lesser-knowns for the
material is far too shallow for the combined star power. Adding insult,
Lonergan wrote himself in as the divorced dad living on the left coast.
His scenes are beyond expendable.

Paquin does fine, yet, at 24, she's long-in-the-tooth to be believable
as a 17 year old (at first glance she appears passable as a college
junior). There are fireworks between Lisa and her mother, an excellent
J. Smith-Cameron. However, they become shrill and muddied through
repetition.

This script was in process for many years (and exhibits the associated
constipation).

There's an unspoken trust between filmmaker and audience. The
expectation is the story has clarity and a through-line to reward we
popcorn munchers in the dark. Mr. Lonergan broke the trust through
reversal by expecting the audience to help him understand "Margaret."
If this is where Lonergan is headed as a Director, authoring "Analyze
The Other Thing" should be the next entry on his resume.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is just over two and a half hours long and while it doesn't
fly on by--it doesn't slowly crawl on by either. There are a lot of
scenes that flow really really nicely into other scenes that might not
have to do with the main plot line but seem to belong in the movie all
the same. I can kind of see why the writer/director had trouble
trimming it even at two and a half hours, its hard to tell where or
what to trim since the main plot line of the movie isn't really the
point so much as all the establishing things that contribute to Lisa's
mood and state of mind as the movie progresses. (i think) If you're
reading this you probably already know the main plot line--teenage girl
Lisa causes massive bus accident resulting in a single death, and
spends the rest of the movie both breaking down emotionally and trying
to right what she feels she did wrong. (the accident is really, really
not entirely her fault, but she feels enormous guilt just the same as
she should) Anna Paquin gives an incredible performance here--i don't
just mean that Paguin's performance is really emotional (which it
is)--or that she feels like a real life teenager here (so confident in
her rightness, so prone to outbursts when her rightness isn't so right)
i mean that Paquin's performance really, pretty much completely
single-handedly holds this entire jumble together into one coherent
narrative--and for that she's almost like Kenneth Lonnigran's
equivalent to Ben Gazzara here. We follow her as she runs into all
sorts of people, and we follow her thru all of her mood swings and
somewhat pointless arguments that she picks with some of these people,
and completely well reasoned arguments that she picks with
others...she's the kind of well intentioned but guilt racked
protaginist you would expect to find in a novel or a play, or maybe a
really good ongoing TV series--but definitely not a film with a
definitive arc which is what makes her character that much more
surprising.

The film really did call to mind some of John Cassavettes' films in
both its rambling yet always moving forward (but never exactly straight
forward) narrative and the many, many set pieces consisting of minute
characters just talking....not to mention all the natrualistic scenes
of Lisa just hanging out in her element. (meaning in school, with
friends, arguing with her mom, etc) Movie is very very dialog heavy and
yet somehow it never comes across as trying to strong-arm you into a
specific point of view, at least until the last half hour or so--as its
main character eventually and forcefully takes one on of her own.

This is a movie that for all of its strengths has plenty of weaknesses
in it as well. For one thing I'm not sure what the heck Jean Reno is
doing here exactly. I'm only slightly less curious about what the heck
Matt Damon is doing here also. (was he supposed to be Lisa's moral
compass? because his character doesn't really make any sense really. If
there's one character who seems like he should have had more screen
time it would have to be him) i'm not enitrely sure why we keep cutting
back to Matthew Broderick who outside the scenes of him moderating
English class debates (?!?!) doesn't seem to have much of a character
to play. i'm not entirely sure the ending justified the extreme
buildup--i'm also not sure how realistic that ending decision actually
is either, but i'll let that go just because the movie had to have an
ending. Even tho I enjoyed the constant cutting back to Lisa's mom's
storyline (J Smith Cameron is pretty good here too i should point
out)--i'm not even sure all of that was necessary to tell Lisa's story
so thoroughly--even if the relationship between the mom and the
daughter i think is supposed to be the backbone of the movie...and yet
with all of these questionable elements just kind of thrown on in there
one on top of the other, (like they're all so tightly wound together
that it would be hard to pick one off without feeling like something
was missing i should add)--- the movie does remain really quite
watchable right up until the end--anchored very nicely by the excellent
work of Anna Paquin so really that's a feat just by itself i think.
This is a film that will be overrated by some, and too easily dismissed
by many others...yet this definitely is a challenging film and one that
i think should make a pretty good civics lesson to some high
school/college students in the years ahead--provided schools are still
teaching civics in the years ahead.
<|_=00=_|>
Margaret is a well written coming of age drama, but the protagonist is
not a sympathetic character, which is going to alienate a lot of the
audience right off the bat. The girl behind me as I left the theater
didn't like it, telling her friend, "I just couldn't stand Anna
Paquin's character." The screenplay is deft at shorthanding
idiosyncratic, complicated personalities with naturalistic dialogue. It
also helps that every role in the film, including almost every minor
part, is cast with a top notch actor. But for all the big Hollywood
names, my props go to J. Smith-Cameron for a theater-grade performance
scaled down to fit the intimacy of a close up shot. The movie explores
the milieu of affluent teenagers attending an upscale school in New
York City, and one of the other reviewers here is right in saying it
resembles a French film in that it takes an mature approach to
depicting adolescents, showing them as smart, complicated, sexual,
uncertain. Most mainstream reviewers seem puzzled as to what they
should think about it. I think it's over their heads, the elliptical,
dialogue heavy, character driven narrative style, as well as the lack
of an easy, simple take-away moral, seems to have befuddled them. Maybe
we should rope in some theater critics' opinions instead.
<|_=00=_|>
The travails involved in getting this movie released at all are well
enough known by now that the fact that it is a flawed masterpiece
shouldn't come as a surprise. Above all, it is a masterclass in how to
write dialogue. Virtually every character is given a credible and
compelling voice, from the bus driver to the lawyer, from the mother's
suitor to Lisa's "boyfriend". As the father of a daughter, now in her
early 20's, I can say that Lisa Cohen's character is as realistic a
portrayal of the insecurities and self-righteousness of female
adolescence as I have seen. All aspiring screenwriters should be forced
to watch this movie and then be given a 3-hour oral and written exam
before being allowed to put pen to paper (or finger to keyboard).

The acting is also superb. The feel is more of a stage play, an
ensemble piece, than a film. Perhaps the fact that one of the
characters - Lisa's mother - is a stage actress struggling to support
her daughter is partially responsible. But you can tell that this team
of seasoned actors relished the opportunity to stretch out with an
intelligent well-written script and a supportive director.

The only flaw in Margaret has already been well expressed by others.
The film does meander and, while I recognize that this is partly the
point of the exercise, there are times at which you long for a more
conventional, and taut, storyline. I would gladly have spent more time
in the company of these well-drawn, articulate and interesting people.
Maybe next time HBO wants to do a miniseries it will let Kenneth
Lonergan loose on a story rather than subject us to another preachy,
wordy effort from Aaron Sorkin.
<|_=00=_|>
I never known of a another movie that I've watched that I hated the
female characters so much. It leaves a bad taste in the mouth. I can
only guess that the writer wants females to come across as horrible,
nagging, b's, while the guys are the easy going common sense
individuals. There is no way I can see anyone giving this movie more
than one star and even that's far reaching.

In addition, the movie doesn't even make sense. You have a girl running
along the side of a bus repeatedly trying to get the bus drivers
attention to the point where I thought she was going to run into a
pole, and she then goes on a one man crusade to get him arrested for
something she caused.
