
After viewing Perfect Stranger, I went on the film's page at the IMDb,
and found out that there were three different endings filmed, each one
with a different character being guilty. This does not surprise me at
all. This is a movie that jerks us around simply for the sole fact that
it wants to jerk us around. It doesn't want us to figure it out, and it
doesn't play fair. When I realized that there was no point in following
the clues and the movie simply plays to the demands of the filmmaker
and which ending worked best with test audiences, it made me hate this
shallow and silly excuse for a thriller even more.

The film centers on an investigative journalist named Rowena (Halle
Berry) who specializes in going undercover and exposing corporate and
political frauds with the help of her creepy best friend and co-worker
Miles (Giovanni Ribisi) who seems to have a certain unhealthy obsession
with her that is painfully obvious to the audience, yet Rowena seems
blissfully ignorant to. Rowena's having a tough time after she quits
her job due to one of her stories falling through and a childhood
friend of hers named Grace (Nicki Aycox) turns up dead. The two women
just happened to have a chance meeting in a subway shortly before
Grace's murder, and she told Rowena about how she had been having an
on-line affair with a powerful New York ad executive named Harrison
Hill (Bruce Willis). Grace had mentioned that their relationship had
recently soured, and that Harrison was no longer talking to her. When
evidence pops up that Grace may have been pregnant, Harrison becomes
all the more suspicious to Rowena, especially since the man is married
and has a long history of past affairs. Deciding to investigate on her
own, Rowena turns up at Harrison's corporate office as a Temp and tries
to get close to him, with Miles trying to dig up more dirt on the guy.
Naturally, things are not what they seem, and the movie has more red
herrings than a fresh fish market to keep us guessing in sheer
futility.

There's nothing exactly wrong with the concept behind Perfect Stranger,
and director James Foley certainly gives the movie an attractive look.
The problem lies with the screenplay by Todd Komarnicki. He seems to be
trying to make an erotic murder thriller along the lines of Basic
Instinct, but the movie is not very erotic nor is it very thrilling.
The pace is leisurely to the point of being nearly stagnant, and the
few sex scenes contained within the film are completely and instantly
forgettable. I guess we're supposed to be enthralled by the twisting
plot that casts everyone who plays a major role into a shadowy light.
The movie stresses time and time again that everyone has dirty secrets,
and yes, many secrets are exposed. The problem is almost all of these
secrets exist simply to throw us off course. Not one leads to the
correct answer. The answer exists simply in whatever of the three
endings worked out the best. A thriller like this has to be planned out
and lead to one true answer, not whatever answer the filmmakers feel
like. 

Long before we find out that the movie doesn't even want to play fair,
Perfect Stranger never truly captures our attention to start with. The
characters are murky at best and, as previously mentioned, exist simply
to lead us in multiple directions. They are victims of a plot that
knows it's clever. They have no personality and no real motivation
other than to act as red herrings. A good example is the character of
Harrison Hill, who is slimy simply because he is supposed to be slimy
for the sake of the story. He cheats on his wife, he threatens his
business enemies, and when he finds out that one of his employees has
been leaking info to an outside source, he physically abuses him right
in front of all the other employees. None of these actions truly
matter. They have no motivation and they do not drive his character to
any sort of goal. We can't become attached to these people, because
they're not even human to start with.

Since winning the Oscar for Monster's Ball, Halle Berry seems to be on
a strange single-minded quest to kill her career. Chalk up another loss
for Berry. She's passable at best, but just about any other actress
could have filled her shoes, and she brings nothing to the character.
Same goes for Bruce Willis, who has absolutely no charisma, and we
cannot understand why he is such a ladies man except for the fact that
the movie tells us he is. The only performance that does stand out is
Giovanni Ribisi as Miles, and it's for all the wrong reasons. He is
immediately suspicious to us, because Ribisi plays up the weirdness of
his character almost from the instant he walks onto the screen. This
makes the fact that Berry's character does not even seem the least bit
unnerved by him make her come across as a total idiot. 

I will not reveal the ending of Perfect Stranger, but I will say this.
When the ending comes, did you personally see anything during the
course of the movie that could have led us to the conclusion it wants
to lead us to? We don't get the full story beforehand. All the clues,
all the evidence, all the paths it had led us down had nothing to do
with anything. The movie is a great big exploding cigar that laughs at
us when everything blows up in our face. There are no right and wrong
answers. Just one very uninteresting movie that doesn't even have the
nerve to play fair.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched Perfect Stranger at a preview at my local theater this past
weekend, and next to the scantily clad Halle Berry, there was no reason
to go watch this movie. Don't get me wrong, there's nothing wrong with
movies with twists, but as long as they're done with thought, taste,
and creativity. The problem in this movie is writers have all the
freedom in the world to guide a viewer's mind and place where the
twists lie. It is too easy for writers to trick the audience, and to
some audience members, the simple trick in itself is good enough to
make the movie "great." Well, this doesn't cut it for me. I want a
movie that connects, makes me think, has me connect with a character,
or even teaches me something. Perfect Stranger lacked meaning, taste,
and creativity and is just another one of those "movies with a twist."
FYI: The movie was a long advertisement with way too much product
placement. Even if the movie does bomb, the movie industry would have
made up for the loss with the amount of advertising they put in the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
What in the world has happened to Halle Berry? Can't she act any more?
Judging from this movie I'd say: Yes - she can't... And Bruce Willis is
... well, he's Bruce Willis. And why does she have to participate in a
mediocre thriller like this one? Because it is very mediocre. The
beginning is quite promising, and I was ready for a nice, clean
thriller. But what followed was like a bad version of some Michael
Crichton novel. Oh, and the filmmakers filmed three different endings
to the film, each with a different character as the killer? Then they
must have chosen the worst ending. The film is not creative, not
inventive, implausible, sometimes ridiculous. No, it's not a disaster.
But a major disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read all the negative comments and I'm starting to think someone
who hates Halle Berry has created multiple accounts. I hadn't intended
on seeing it, I just felt like going to the movies this afternoon. The
movie I wanted to see didn't start until later so I said 'what the
heck, I'll give it a try'. This movie was a pleasant surprise for me.

I called it noir-ish because that's the feeling I got from it. And I
have to say that sitting in the theater I thought, 'Gee, it's nice to
see a movie with two real live movies stars in it.' You get all kinds
of weird combinations these days with stars and starlets and rap
artists that it's no wonder that most movies are awful.

In this case you have a story about a woman played by Halle Berry who
is an investigative reporter for a major newspaper. She has a great
story that her paper decides to not use. In anger, she quits, and at
the same time a maybe even more important story, involving an
advertising giant played by Bruce Willis, falls in her lap. So the
movie is about her trying to get to the bottom of this story along with
the help of her friend/colleague, played by Giovanni Ribisi. Now I'm
purposely not including any spoilers because I personally like to know
as little as possible going into a film.

I think a good number of people who like movies like The Usual Suspects
or Lucky Number Slevin will like something like this. Now where I think
we can really tell is if you also saw and didn't hate the Black Dahlia.
A lot of people didn't like it. I loved it. But being very specific
there were people who didn't like it because they felt the ending was
too quick and that there was no way you could have figured it out with
the information at hand until the movie explained it for you at the
end. I disagree but those people may have a problem with this. Anyone
who wants to figure mysteries out before the end and doesn't want to go
along for the ride may have the age old complaint of "how are we
supposed to figure it out if they only told you (insert important plot
point) at the end?" I'm not one of those people. I like to go along for
the ride. That being said, I do think there is enough info that if you
really want to guess at the ending you could do it.

The acting was great. I'm not that big on Halle Berry but she did the
best job I've seen her do in a while. Bruce is becoming someone I
definitely trust with my money. And, imo, it's Giovanni Ribisi who
stole the show here. He's getting better all the time.

This movie is for adults, not that it's too much for a teenager to
handle. I just don't really think it's something your average teen
would be interested in. And it's an R for a couple of reasons. So I'm
going to recommend it for older mystery and/or noir fans who don't mind
not being able to figure out the ending.
<|_=00=_|>
"Perfect Stranger" is quite thrilling but the finale simply absurd,
moronic. It doesn't lack thrills and pshycology, being it a
phsycological thriller. Played intensely, with moments of entertainment
not delicious but decent though, everything's spoiled by the foolish
and outrageous ending - the mystery resolution is too convoluted. It
looks like a pre-packedged thriller, "homogenized" I'd say, with much
part of it taking place in chats. Bruce Willis and Halle Berry have
acted much better in past, but are watchable regardless, as well as
Giovanni Ribisi; suspense thriller is made bearable but eventually
degenerates..
<|_=00=_|>
Perfect Stranger I had read really bad reviews of the movie on the
internet and I was not sure whether I should go to see this movie or
not. I had to choose between a 1918 Austrian silent movie and this. I
chose this, just because it was a new movie.

The story is about a journalist  played by Halle Berry, who does sting
operations on rich powerful businessmen. With one mission unsuccessful
due to politics and power-play in not covering the sting by the news
industry and she quitting her job; she pursues Harrison Hill  played
by Bruce Willis  to expose the murder of her friend. She takes the
help of her colleague Miles  played by Giovanni Ribisi. I would not
disclose the expose and let the last frame suspense let out.

The movie is quite engaging throughout, and I found the reviews a bit
harsh and lopsided. It is not such a bad movie as made out to be by
film critics. The mystery quotient shifts from one character to
another, I had guessed one when the murder took place, but due to the
course of engrossing events and incidences  I lost that thought; only
to re-emerge as the mystery I had guessed in the first place.

The ending was a bit lame, and there are lots of loose ends hanging.
Halle Berry looks good and tries to act sincerely. At times she has
captured some emotions perfectly. Bruce Willis does not have much to do
and as usual he mumbles his way through the movie and at times displays
his whimsical temper. The surprise pack was Giovanni Ribisi  as the
colleague and close friend of Halle Berry  who has a huge crush on her
and manipulates Halle's effort to solve the mystery.

James Foley  the director, lost the plot in the end, but leaves behind
an engrossing story overall.

(Stars 5.25 out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason i can see for this movie to be released is because
celebrities are in it. But, Halle Berry over-acts a choppy and
shallowly developed character. I spent the whole movie waiting for the
plot to really get going, but instead what i got was a whole bunch of
disconnected plot points and irrelevant characters. It is supposed to
be suspenseful, but mostly i just wanted it to be over. When the end
came, yes, it was a surprise, but by that time I did not care about the
story at all. And it was only "surprising" because the whole story is
random events all loosely, very loosely connected to the end. It was
almost...amateur. The story does not give enough background on most
characters to evoke sympathy, emotion, or interest...ESPECIALLY Willis'
character. It's a movie that is good in theory, but wasn't focused
enough to be held in the same esteem as other psychological thrillers.
The most developed and well acted character is really Ribisi's. His
performance is noteworthy and enough to warrant the 3 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the relentless attacks on this movie particularly by critics
are just totally unfair. Reviews are running about 10-1 against it in
some major publications. It is frequently referred to as "conventional"
or clichéd. In the first place, they criticize it for pandering to
public interest because it is partially about computer sex, and also
about a congressman who has illicit affairs with boys, and an
investigative reporter who tries to find the lowdown on a powerful ad
executive who is cheating on his wife. The Congressman/boy scandal
actually happened last year in Washington,D.C. In many movies nowadays
computers and cell phones play a role ("The Departed" for example) and
at least two recent highly-praised movies ("Me And You and Everyone We
Know" and "Hard Candy") are specifically about computer sex. Sex always
sells (there are numerous sexual references as well in "Blades Of
Glory", but this is just Will Ferrell showing his Saturday Night Live!
background, it is funny, and to a large extent "Blades" rises above
this) and to criticize "Perfect Stranger" for being sleazy for this
reason is hardly fair. Then they criticize the acting performances. I
think Halle Berry should be allowed to do her thing. With this movie,
she should become an even bigger box office draw. 

The movie's fast pace really impressed me. It was somewhat like "The
Departed" in this respect, and "The Departed" won an Oscar for editing.
You have to stay on your toes to understand what is happening. I
thought the detail about Harrison Hill's wife's connection with
belladonna was interesting, and it is historically accurate that serial
killers have used atropine for years to kill people. I thought Giovanni
Ribisi's character as a sleazy computer geek who has his secret lust
for Rowena was well-done. There being all types of abnormal psychology,
from multiple personality to neurotic, this one seems somewhat
middling, perhaps above average, on a scale of 1-10. and the movie has
many interesting minor characters, like Rowena's mother, who in the end
plays a significant role. I enjoyed the arrest, trial and conviction of
Hill--but things are not as they appear to be. Certainly not a movie
for rubes or farmers or children, I think this is a sophisticated New
York thriller worth the $6 price of admission, though not perfect. I
also enjoyed both "Premonition" and "The Reaping" which movies were
likewise trashed by critics for the same reasons.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never commented movies here but I just had to write a word of
warning to anyone who's planning on watching this. The movie is slow,
boring, without suspense or tension. The story is lame, nothing new nor
original, nor even interesting. One is under the impression that they
just threw ideas on paper not bothering to shape them into a coherent
story (and I use the term "idea" in the broadest possible meaning).
Hence all the holes and illogic places in the plot. Sorry guys, but a
few close-ups of Halle Berry's ass aren't going to make up for the
terrible story. The characters are so underdeveloped that they are not
even two-dimensional. Acting is just terrible and even though none of
the actors did well, Halle Berry must be singled out as absolutely the
worst of them. She just can't act. Even when she forces herself to
change facial expression nothing really changes in her acting. She
might as well be reading the phone book out loud. Scenes which should
be dramatic and emotional are just plain ridiculous. Plus, she's too
old for the role she was playing here. Curiously enough, she's not the
one wearing the most makeup in this movie. Cue Bruce Willis. He is now
running neck to neck with Sylwester Stallone in the "who's wearing the
most makeup" race. Apart from that, he's just being there doing his
thing, being exactly the same as in any other movie he's acted in. One
wonders why they even bother to change the name his characters, because
he portrays them all in the same way.

As for the "twist" in the end, it would be equally sensible to blame it
all on the Monty Python's killer rabbit. No, wait, that would actually
make more sense.

I was going to give this movie 1 star but I'm giving it 2 so that
people wouldn't say that my only goal was to lower the movie's rating.
If you're into masochism don't watch this movie. Hurt yourself in a
more humane way.
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing "Perfect Stranger", I was hoping for another hidden gem
like "Twisted" (2004), which was also a murder mystery with a female
lead and other big names in the cast and also got bad reviews; sadly,
this film isn't it.

The film starts off poorly - it's a whodunit, but the victim is a
character who appears in just one scene before getting bumped off, so
we don't have enough time to like or even hate (as it usually happens
in, say, the Agatha Christie mysteries) her; so it's harder to find a
reason to care who killed her. The film improves somewhat in the
middle, with a couple of tense scenes (like the one in the car with
Willis suspecting Berry of being a spy, or Berry's entrance into
Ribisi's "secret room"), and a few interesting (if brief) views of the
net-chatting world. But then the ending comes, and it's a cheat - the
perfect planning required for it is simply too far-fetched (IMDB trivia
says they filmed three alternative endings with three alternative
killers: the one chosen in the final cut was probably the worst).

Halle Berry is GORGEOUS in this movie - I personally think this woman
is getting more beautiful every year - but her acting is a bit forced,
especially at her "big" moments. Bruce Willis has a couple of good
scenes, but the rest of the time he pretty much sleepwalks through his
role. Another problem is that both their characters are not very
interesting, and yet another one is that there is no erotic heat
between them, because Bruce is too old for Halle - although their age
difference is only 11 years, he would even be more acceptable as her
father than as her lover! In a supporting role, Giovani Ribisi is
marginally more interesting than the two leads.

All in all, this movie is between a 4 and a 5 out of 10, mostly rental
material.
