
I don't usually bother with reviews but when I logged into IMDb and
searched for Furry Vengeance I was astonished to find the movie was
actually lounging in the bottom 100 of all time I was simply stirred
into action to defend this movie. I have put two and two together and
decided that the low rating this movie has accrued has probably
everything to do with a bunch 20 something nerdy tech heads who have
yet to enjoy the pleasure of having children, I watched this film with
3 young children of various ages and they had a ball as I did, there
was several laugh out loud moments and not just for young children but
adults too, but if you're a twenty something adult you might find it so
uncool inverted commas! so seriously you view life. When you have
children of your own movies like this will become so much more
enjoyable believe me!. I'd give this movie a 7 rating from an adult
with children perspective but I rated it a nine because the children in
my presence absolutely adored it and would probably have gave it ten if
they could rate it themselves. Some people should really learn to enjoy
life sometime?
<|_=00=_|>
I won't give away any plot, but to be honest if you've seen the trails
you've probably seen the only good bits of the movie and the rest is
watchable if nothing's better on.

I initially gave this movie 4/10, but as I wrote this downgraded to 3.
I'd say this movie would be ideal for anyone between the ages of 5 and
9. I'd not buy it on DVD except from the bargain bucket, or watch for
free on regular TV. I regret having spent good money to see it at the
cinema.

We saw this at the cinema as a family; we are middle-aged parents with
a son, 6, and a daughter, 4.

We adults thought it was slow to get started but managed to pick up a
little bit of pace. It was quite predictable with the same jokes
repeated, and there were no plot twists at all to give it any interest.
The bored teenager role was acted with little imagination, the
girlfriend just about imagining a soupçon of character. Brendan Fraser
managed to make a reasonable deal of a weak plot, and his wife Brooke
Shields had a few moments of believable acting as a wife.

The script writer lacked imagination, the budget was probably quite low
too, there were times the poor CGI punctured the suspension of
disbelief (I imagine this would not be one to enjoy on blu-ray unless
they fix things up in the transfer). One novelty was that the animals
didn't speak, instead thought bubbles appeared with pictures. If I was
being cynical I'd say this was as much a way to avoid the costs of
voice character actors and dubbing into foreign languages as to give
the movie a twist.

This could easily have been an episode of a any standard sitcom about a
family relocating to the country, and could have been edited down to 45
minutes... and then perhaps the reuse of jokes might not be so bad, but
they quickly became stale.

So, the movie failed from an adult perspective. Did it succeed to keep
the kids entertained? Our 6 year old enjoyed it, he's at that age where
adults being stupid, animals being smart, and lots of mess and stink
are funny. He's able to follow quite complex dialogue so was able to
grasp the point of the movie.

Our 4 year old found it hard going, as it was slow to start, there was
too much dialogue with too little action, she enjoyed the slapstick
humour, but was frequently restless - she'll re-watch Finding Nemo with
more attention and she's seen that 10+ times!.
<|_=00=_|>
Brendan Fraser has uprooted wife Brooke Shields and their teenage son
to some unspecified rural area, where he's overseeing the construction
of a McMansion community in a formerly pristine natural area. This
angers the local wildlife, headed by a cackling raccoon, who set off to
humiliate, injure, and presumably kill Fraser and other human
interlopers.

Now, I'm all for the stupidly funny. I wasn't expecting Oscar material
and certainly didn't expect it from this. But even on its own low
terms, this movie just fails to be funny, and in my eyes, there's
little worse than a bad comedy. Bad efforts at other genres can be
great for laughs, but when comedies fail to elicit laughs, they're just
painful and dull.

Fraser's goofy amiability has levitated other films before, but this
time he's just not up to it. There's too much bottom-of-the-barrel
slapstick, an overpopulation of stupid characters, and predictable
family drama. Also, frequently weirdly inconsistent. At one point
Fraser is flung into a bee's nest and is covered with stings, but the
next morning he's shown without a scratch or swelling on him. Early on,
another character suffers an animal-induced auto accident that's rather
appalling since it would be clearly fatal and later we're told the
character "disappeared." There quite a bit of wet-crotch and
groin-injury humor; I remember a time when that was considered too
risqué for children, and now is standard for kid flicks. At any rate,
they're cheap laughs.

Fraser looks bad; he's gained weight and looks pudgy and uncomfortable.
Brooke Shields can be a great comic actress but spends most of the time
playing the straight man, so her talents are underused. She also
doesn't look her best, either. They're basically playing second fiddle
to the cutesy animals, which range from real animals to poorly-done CGI
stand-ins. Also has nocturnal animals, like owls and raccoons, running
around in the day, and daytime animals, like crows, active at night.
Not to mention seagulls suddenly showing up in a clearly inland and
mountainous locale. At one point the flick attempts to set up some sort
of mystical/magical reasoning for the intelligent animals (who not only
understand human speech, but seem every bit as aware of human pop
culture as the humans are), but then it's quickly dropped and
forgotten.

I saw this at a preview screening; there were a number of families
there and I could tell the very young found it funny, but older kids
and adults were clearly not amused and unimpressed. I guess they wanted
a sort of live-action cartoon here, but amidst all the mayhem they
forgot to make it truly funny...and contrasting it to a halfway
realistic family drama doesn't help. You're better off staying at home
with some classic Warner Brothers cartoons. FURRY VENGEANCE is to be
avoided at all costs, one of the worst things I've seen in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
What a waste of a talented and versatile actor! Fraser has fattened up
for his role as a very unpleasant character who deserves all that
happens to him, but the broad slapstick and second-rate predictable
script gives Fraser no chance to display the sly wit of the Mummy
movies or the subtle emotion of Gods & Monsters. 

Even Dudley Do-Right was better than this: at least Fraser looked like
he was having a good time, unlike in this sorry excuse for a film. This
role smacks of desperation. He must have really, REALLY needed the
money.

The CGI is OK but it's not at the top of the tech, and the supporting
cast are cardboard cutouts.

Give it a miss.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have seen the trailer and gone ahead and bought or rented the
movie, then you know what to expect. This isn't Bergman's The Seventh
Seal, or Welles Citizen Kane. It is what it is, a funny family movie
with lots of forest critters causing trouble for Brendon Fraser.

Of course Brendon has done better more artful movies, of course he's
done more adult-themed action, but why all the hate for this movie?
Sometimes I want a sophisticated cerebral comedy with witty satire and
subtlety, just like sometimes I want a fancy meal. But there also times
I just want to kick my shoes off, sink a beer, scoff a pizza, burp and
watch a fun film. This is what you get with Furry Vengeance, and it
delivers what it sets out to deliver.

The performances are exaggerated sure, and yes, you can tell no-one has
spent months refining the CGI. But what the hell, the movies makes you
smile throughout, with a few laugh out loud moments thrown in too, and
the extras on the DVD prove that everyone had a good time making the
film.

Chill out all you negative reviewers, appreciate this movie for what it
is.
<|_=00=_|>
Furry Vengeance (1:30, PG)  Other: Talking Animals, 3rd string,
original

Brendan Fraser 1st endeared himself to SF fans as the thawed-out
missing link in 1992's Encino Man. Since then, he's turned in a lot
solid performances in genre films, notably as gentleman adventurer Rick
O'Connell in the Mummy series. So, while he does doofus really well, he
can also sell himself as a big, beefy guy with a soft heart or as a
serious actor in a serious role. The one thing he's never attempted is
villainy; like Will Smith, he's always aimed for (and largely hit)
likability. Last year he reached new heights in Inkheart, which I thot
was magnificent. (I'm a sucker for books.) This week the law of
averages reasserts itself as he plummets straight to the bottom in the
role of suburban developer Dan Sanders, beset by the woodland creatures
he's preparing to displace, in Furry Vengeance.

Just to put things in perspective about the relentless, unremitting
awfulness of this movie, I gave Beverly Hills Chihuahua a higher rating
(2). Speaking of relentlessness, Edward Shearmur's score is both
ubiquitous and manically perky. An appearance by the world's least
helpful librarian is only about 54th on this film's list of sins.

Screenwriters Michael Carnes and Josh Gilbert have provided an
abundance of plot and dialog, so you get a lot of substance in the 90
minutes you spend squirming and covering your eyes. I think they took
pride in breaking new ground in the icky-fluids department. In addition
to the abundance of poop, pee, fart, barf, and crotch jokes, they've
upped the ante with skunks. And, just to be sure you didn't miss this
brilliant innovation on their part, they repeat it 3 or 4 times.

Searching desperately for something positive to say about Furry
Vengeance, I must commend director Roger Kumble for getting the entire
cast to buy into the premise of how it should be overacted, as every
single one of them gives it everything they've got, from beginning to
end, without pause or apology. I can imagine Kumble's pep speech at the
kick-off meeting: "All right, we're making this film for an autistic
audience that doesn't read human expressions very well. Also, we think
it'll probably play well with space aliens who know nothing whatsoever
about carbon-based life forms. So don't hold back, OK? Exaggerate
everything. Everything! Actions, expressions, vocal intonations,
emotions, the works! Just to help you out, we've prepared this little
drug cocktail we'd like you to take daily, consisting of LSD, PCP,
speed, and whatever it is that gets your eyes to bug out like that guy
in the Staples commercial."

I categorize this movie under "talking animals", even tho they don't
engage in actual human speech. Instead we get a variety of churrs,
coos, and gurgles, apparently from the throat of one Dee Bradley Baker.
But the various different kinds of critters can all understand each
other, and they pass along stories via cartoon thot balloons running
flashbacks (or, in one scene, Mel Gibson in Braveheart). And they've
developed tool use, which we see in the opening scenes, as a Rube
Goldberg contraption turns a huge boulder loose on the SUV of an
arrogant developer who has just thrown his cigar stub into a pile of
dry leaves.

Philosophers who have long sought the elusive white crow (as an example
of trying to prove a negative) will be delighted to know that the
producers of this nature epic did not blanch at depicting one,
apparently figuring nobody in the audience would notice ... or maybe
care.

This film reminds me of nothing so much as the conservative political
pundit William Kristol. He's bright, well informed, charming,
articulate, thotful, and well intentioned. And you know that every
single time he's opened his mouth for the last quarter century,
whatever comes out of it has been dead wrong. Reliably. Consistently.
Every time. Without let or regret. And he just keeps on doing it!

I cannot imagine what anybody ever said to the participants in, or
financiers of, this train wreck that made them think it would be a good
idea. Redeeming thot? As long as you're still alive, things can always
get worse.
<|_=00=_|>
Keep in mind this is a KIDS move so the standards should be lowered a
bit but still to an acceptable level. I really do not understand how
this movie ranked a 1.8 unless the same couple posters are making up
screen names and writing bogus reviews.

This movie had the theatre cracking up, especially kids. Brenden Fraser
is so lovable as a real estate developer who has ticked off a raccoon
and his forest of friends to stop a development from going up and
destroying the forest. Brooke Shields is his faithful do good wife who
stands by him as he gets his butt kicked by mother nature.

A few pretty funny moments including the outhouse scene.

If your goal is to see a movie that your kids will understand and laugh
at, this is a good one.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was insultingly bad next to Land of the
Lost(2009). In fact watching the kind of movie this was, I wonder if it
was written for Will Ferrell, but he was not available, so they went
with Brendan Fraser instead.

This movie can't decide if it wants to be a family film, or edgy adult
comedy, it blurs the line quite badly. Brendan Fraser is unfunny and
uninteresting to watch, he is oftener enjoyable to watch, but he just
was'nt this time. Usually I like movies about smart animals, but
everything was too precise in this film. Not to mention the comedy was
badly written, resulting to unfunny written slapstick. Brooke Sheilds
who plays Frasers wife, looks amazingly bored through most of this, not
to mention there is no chemistry between Fraser and Shields.

So if you are looking for a funny entertaining film, it's not Furry
Vengeance
<|_=00=_|>
All other reviews have been giving 1 out of 10, and proclaiming it as
the worst movie ever. The movie is not as bad as that, and the kids
enjoyed it and got a few laughs. As an adult it seemed aimed at the 6-8
crowd and worked as that. There have been children movies out recently
that the kids did not manage to sit all the way through, for example,
Chipmonks squeekle, Princess and the Frog, Planet 51, Aliens in the
Attic and so on. Perhaps it had an advertising campaign that gave a
different idea of what it is, which disappointed most viewers. The plot
is simple enough and follows the classic 'protect nature' without being
rammed down the viewers throats too much. Brendan Fraser appears to
have put on quite a bit of weight for the role.
<|_=00=_|>
Furry Vengeance features talented people making fools of themselves as
they lazily try to collect their paycheck. It follows the same route as
Daddy Day Camp making stupid jokes about skunks and poop that don't
even appeal to kids. At least Daddy Day Camp thought that kids would
like these jokes, while Furry Vengeance is significantly more annoying
because it knows that kids won't like this, but continue to make this
so they can all make money. During this film, nothing in the actually
film made me laugh, but I did laugh seeing the target demographic, a
5-year old boy falling asleep, not from fatigue, but from being plain
bored. Brendan Fraser has actually been a talented actor in his career
when he wants to be. Don't believe me? If you don't, watch Gods &
Monsters, Crash, The Quiet American, With Honors & School Ties. If you
want to prove me wrong, watch this film. Other talented people such as
Ken Jeong, Brooke Shields, Angela Kinsey, and Wallace Shawn show up,
but just blandly read their lines, walk off screen, and if I were to go
out on a limb, collect their paychecks, and walk out of the studio. The
animals don't talk, which should be refreshing, but is even more
annoying than talking animals in live action films, and that's saying a
lot. This is the worst film I have seen this year, and yes I have seen
The Back Up Plan, The Bounty Hunter & Leap Year this year.
