
I'm confident that "Snakes on a Plane" will prove once and for all that
Internet culture and mainstream culture are not one and the same.

Because, my friends, the Internet will tell you that SOAP (as those in
the know call it) is a classic film - the best "bad movie" ever made.
But I think any more sensible member of the general public will tell
you that SOAP is nothing more than a mildly competent action movie.
It's not hysterically funny. It's not scary. It's occasionally
exciting. And it sure ain't a "10" on the IMDb scale.

Don't misunderstand me; I had fun watching the movie. I was even
willing to be generous, until I saw the outrageously high rating on
this site and all the strangely gushing reviews. Frankly, I'm a bit
astonished. Why heap such praise on this particular film? If you love
camp, over-the-top action movies, then why not worship a camp action
film that's actually good? ("Wrath of Khan" springs to mind - also
"Batman.") 

The truth is that parts of SOAP are pretty lame. Samuel L. Jackson is
good, but his role is weirdly small. And, aside from his one power
catchphrase, most of his dialog is banal and dull. The rest of the
actors aren't even worth commenting on, since they're stuck with stock
and boring "funny" characters.

Speaking of dull, how many different ways can snakes really kill
someone? They hiss...they lunge...they bite...over and over and over
again. It's not particularly cinematic. And most of them are fake CGI
anyway, so they're not even remotely frightening.

Face it, the only reason to see this is because it's camp and bad. It's
part of the whole culture of worshiping lame junk that's prevalent
right now. It's hip to like terrible garage bands and lame movies
because people are either too impatient, or too unsophisticated, to
take the time to absorb entertainment that's actually artistic. So we
watch and listen to junk, and imagine that we're superior to it, and
that makes us feel good. Apparently. 

Is there anything wrong with liking junk? Not really - I review and
praise junk on this site all the time. But putting junk on a pedestal?
That's very, very wrong.

Sermon over.
<|_=00=_|>
A small part of me has died today. I realized something when I exited
the theater, fresh from the prescreening of Snakes on a Plane (SoaP) at
the cinema at which I work, that I may never again see another film
that rocks this hard. If you are looking for a deep introspective look
at the horrors of airborne terrorism and reptilian exploitation, look
somewhere else, and don't complain about it. If you are like me, and I
would assume you are since you are reading my review, and are looking
for a solid hour and a half of ass-kickery, then congratulations. You
just hit the jackpot with SoaP. I can honestly say that the film lived
up to my every expectation. I was so pumped by the end of the movie
that I threw my shoes across the (empty) theater in a fit of ecstasy. I
kid you not.

Boiled down to its very essence, SoaP is the pretty much the essence of
all that is manly. Think of it like an anti-chick flick. If you enjoy
any of the following, then this movie is for you: gruesome deaths,
breasts, cheesy physical humor, Samuel L. Jackson, or venomous
reptiles. If not, then you clearly have a vagina, but may still manage
to enjoy SoaP.

Plot is pretty thin, something generic about a kid (Nathan Phillips)
who witnessed a mob murder and has to be transported to L.A. to testify
in court, but I doubt anyone will mind. We know the basic story. There
is a plane in the air that has both venomous snakes and Samuel L.
Jackson on board. Samuel L. Jackson defeat snakes in a number of
thoroughly awesome ways, which I will not reveal as to not diminish
their awesomeness, and simultaneously deals with whiny, stereotypical
frightened passengers. Trust me though, seeing the snakes rampaging
through the plane and wreaking havoc on said stereotypical passengers
is indeed sweet.

The acting is as solid as one could hope for from this cast. Jackson
takes front and center stage, obviously. He saw the called the pitch,
took a beefy swing and hit one into the upper decks. As for the rest of
the cast, they did a decent job. Keenan Thompson actually doesn't suck,
Nathan Phillips was solid enough, and Julianna Margulies did a fine
job.

Honestly, I can think of no reason not to see Snakes on a Plane. Sure,
the critics will lambaste it left and right. There's no doubt about
that. However, coming from someone who is ready to accept the film for
what it is, I can honestly recommend it to anyone who can appreciate
its nostalgic, cheese-ball appeal.

All things considered, Snakes on a Plane will undoubtedly be the most
enjoyable, and the most unlikely blockbuster of the summer. A solid ten
out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of people on IMDb have given Snakes on a Plane a 10/10 rating and
left comments like "omg this is best movie ever lol." Unfortunately,
most of these people had come to this conclusion before seeing the
movie, and are still high on the Internet hype that built the movie up
to be something it's not.

I guess there's no real point to writing a review of Snakes On A Plane.
With a title like that, you've already made up your mind about if you
want to see it. But keep this in mind...

Snakes On A Plane isn't a comedy movie. It isn't a horribly cheesy or
bad (intentionally or not) movie, either, or one that's "so bad it's
good," which is a phrase that gets thrown around a lot in SOAP
discussions. Also, the movie's not all about Samuel L. Jackson being a
badass or swearing a lot, although it happens. Snakes On A Plane is a
entertaining mid-grade thriller movie that pretty much delivers what
you'd expect from a Hollywood movie about snakes on an airplane. No
more, no less.

Don't see this movie if you're expecting to constantly laugh at Samuel
L. Jackson showing off how cool he is. There are plenty of moments
where Sam kicks ass and gives some great one-liners and does amusing
things, but he is offscreen just as often as he is on it.

Snakes On A Plane isn't the best movie of the year. It's not the
funniest movie of the year or the scariest, but it is a good movie if
you're looking for mindless fun involving a lot of snakes on an
airplane, some gratuitous gore and nudity, and a few great Samuel L.
Jackson moments, check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my god. I think I might still be a little excited, since I just got
back from the advance screening of Snakes on a Plane. I want to preface
this review by saying that IT'S NOT SERIOUS. DO NOT go to this film
expecting to see some great, dramatic film because you'll be let down.
However, if you want to go and see Samuel L. Jackson kick the holy sh*t
out of snakes (on a plane) then this is the film for you. It's dumb
B-movie summer fun, and it delivered it by the truckload. It knows it
isn't serious (with that title, how could it be), and honestly, the
whole time everyone involved is just having FUN with it. So go, sit
back, have fun, and see some snakes (on a plane).

The plot on this bad-boy is razor thin with a pathetic, throw-away
villain. After witnessing a murder, Sean (Nathan Phillips) is taken
into protective custody by the FBI and more specifically, Jackson's
Neville Flynn. He has to be flown from Hawaii to LA to testify and
blah, blah, blah. Who cares, right? No one, seriously, NO ONE. Our
villain, Eddie Kim, is worthless. We get two minutes or so of screen
time from him. He's not the villain; the SNAKES are the villains!!!!!
The real fireworks start when we GET ON THAT PLANE. You all know what's
going to happen, so they don't waste (much) time building up to it.
Eventually the snakes (on the plane) are released. People are bitten in
hilarious and very painful fashion. Samuel L. Jackson has to control
the situation in that bad-ass way that only he can, and he disposes of
the snakes in downright hilarious ways (which I won't spoil, you have
to see it to believe it). Most of your characters are generally
stereotypes and some of the acting is wooden. Most of the characters
are very clich√©d and stupid as well, and they don't do the most logical
things in the situations they are presented. But that's not what you
care about. THAT'S NOT IMPORTANT! What is important, is the fact, that
there are SNAKES... ON A PLANE! It's cheesy, B-movie fun, and don't let
anyone tell you any different. You want to see snakes on a plane,
you're going to see snakes on a plane. Period. It also plays homage to
some Jackson flicks of old, I'll let you decide which ones, since the
scenes are obviously set up in that way. Try to think of other films
Jackson has been in with reptiles.

The special effects were PRETTY good; it was obvious when you were
looking at a CGI snake or a real snake, that much I can tell you. But
it didn't matter. It doesn't take you out of the movie at all. The
action is as good as you can expect from people whooping snakes and
vice-versa. It was a good thriller, they kept it moving and didn't slow
down, and they kept the tension riding high throughout the film. And
it's FUNNY. It's funny if you expect it to be cheesy fun, and it is,
and I was constantly laughing throughout. Even as snakes (on a plane)
are killing people, you're laughing at it. It was just that good.

I don't know what else I can say about this, except that if you have
the chance, SEE THIS FILM OPENING WEEKEND. Get a crowd in there that
wants to have good, dumb, popcorn-movie fun and you will have a blast.
My theater was off the hook, and it's seriously the most fun I've had
at the movies in longer than I can remember. Go into this film knowing
what it is and watch it with exactly that in mind and you'll have a
GREAT time. Expect nothing from it and just let yourself have fun for a
couple of hours. This film won't be the darling of the critics; it
wasn't pre-screened because the makers KNOW what this film is and what
they expect from it. I can't think of another instance where a film
drew this kind of buzz on its title alone, and where everyone who went
to see it completely knew it was going to be "so bad it's good." And it
really is. Kudos to the studio that ordered re-shoots after all the
buzz on the internet kicked in, it really shines. And thanks for the
"line" which is quoted at the head of the review. Everyone in my
theater said it with him, and EVERYONE was cheering.

Snakes on a Plane has landed. And it's good summer fun. With snakes. On
a plane. Eight out of ten stars.

- Sgt. Fluffy
<|_=00=_|>
The title says everything you need to know. You're in a 200 foot long
aluminum tube flying at 35,000 feet with snakes loose everywhere and
Sam Jackson is getting very tired of them. I thought that this film,
which wasn't screened for critics, lives up to the hype that has buzzed
around it. It's entertaining and delivers, unabashedly what it
promises. Snakes, some gore and Sam Jackson. The plot is simple enough.
A man is witness to a murder by a crime lord and Sam Jackson is an FBI
agent protecting the witness until he can get to LA from Hawaii to
testify. Snakes are released on the plane in mid-flight and chaos
ensues. I would recommend this film. It's fun, funny and extremely
entertaining. It's a rare film that delivers straightforward what it
promises. A good time, Sam Jackson yelling and lots of snakes on a
plane.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say? I'm a secret fan of 'over the top' action and horror
films. Especially when it comes with a lot of lots of humour and
innuendo, but I'm not a fan of Snake on a Plane.

There are three potential draws to this film: ¬ï The comedy of the
situation; ¬ï The horror; and ¬ï The novelty of hundreds of snakes being
of a plane. 

Firstly, this film isn't written as a tongue-in-cheek horror or a
comedy, and there are only 1 or 2 points in the film where you'll smile
to yourself. If you want to get the feel of the film, the trailer
genuinely represents the movie, a horror.

Secondly, if you're expecting a film full of action and shocks, you
won't be disappointed. It doesn't stand out above other movies, but it
always keeps your attention.

Thirdly, Although the novelty of Snakes of a Plane doesn't wear off,
but you'll leave the cinema thinking "what was all the fuss about".

I know this movie has a high rating, but it doesn't add up. A) Many of
the reviews where written before the film was released and, B) The
breakdown of user ratings has a lot less variation than normal 77% of
people rating the movie 10/10, with only 7% of people giving it 9/10 -
Why such an enormous gap?
<|_=00=_|>
If you got at all caught up in the hype of this movie, even so much as
chuckled at any of the viral videos inspired by its epic title (or at
the title itself!), you will LOVE this film. It was everything I had
hoped for and more. Sex, drugs, violence, gore, guns, other unlikely
weapons, deadly reptiles, predictable plot, occasionally questionable
acting, tacky CGI, factual inaccuracies, physical impossibilities... I
mean, this movie has something for anyone with a pulse.

It has achieved the perfect balance: it is bad enough to be funny, but
good enough to be great. If you ever find yourself less than thrilled
to be watching it, all you have to do is remember the title and
suddenly it's amazing! Really the best thing about it (other than the
concept/title) is that, on the whole, it's not a terribly made film.
Plus, at least for the screening at our theater, the whole audience was
completely into it. People were cheering and clapping and everyone was
psyched just to be there.

If you think the idea is lame, if you don't "get it" and don't want to,
well, I don't know what to tell you. You've already made up your mind
what you're going to think about this movie. But even if you've never
heard of it, approach with an open mind and you won't be disappointed.
GO SEE IT!
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised at how much i was NOT disappointed by this movie. I was
expecting the cheesy lines, and the predictable actions (and
re-actions) of the characters, but knowing I was going into a movie
that was hyped as "so bad, it's good!" made it easier to ignore logic
and just enjoy myself. Seeing it with a big gang of friends certainly
didn't hinder that enjoyment either. In fact, I don't think i would've
enjoyed it as much if I didn't have 6 other people laughing their asses
off right along with me! And having the entire audience yell out THAT
line along with Sam Jackson was incredibly amusing. "Snakes on a
Plane"- I don't know if I'd label it a "Best Worst" movie (it's no
Deathrace 2000); I think I honestly liked it too much for that. I found
it hilarious, campy, and gratifying. It's a must-see for B-is-for-bad
movie fans, and mainstream followers will get a kick out of it too.
Just for fun: bring along a pocket full of rubber snakes. I'm sure
you'll think of SOMETHING to do with them!!
<|_=00=_|>
I'd give this a negative rating if I could. I went into this movie not
expecting much, but I had an open mind. The whole thing is stupid! The
snakes are obviously fake and the first two things they bite are a boob
and a guys johnson. Oh how original; if I were a 12 year old boy I
might laugh at that. I have no idea how this movie became so popular.
Seriously,the worst thing I've ever seen. I wasn't entertained, it
wasn't funny,I wasn't even bored! I wasn't anything. It wasn't even so
bad it was good, it's just bad. Ridiculous actually. Please do not
waste your money on this movie. Don't even rent this movie. No clue how
it's getting such a high rating.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm calling this an "experience" rather than a "review", because a
review wouldn't really encapsulate how enjoyable this movie is. If I
was forced to review the movie, I'd talk about how slow it is in the
beginning, how although some of the dialog is witty quite a lot of it
is hackneyed (a scene with SLJ telling JM to "Be strong" was especially
cringe-worthy), and the climax didn't have a lot of tension and was a
bit disappointing. Five stars out of ten sounds about right, and is
perhaps a bit generous.

But I came out of the movie with a smile on my face, because it was
fun. The audience was really, really into it. When the title of the
movie appeared, everyone cheered (I haven't seen that happen in a movie
theater since Episode 1). Every over-the-top "death by snake" was
cheered and applauded. The people who were going to die were fairly
easily identified, and people eagerly awaited their death scenes. (In a
nod to the movie writers, I expected one character to die for being a
complete jerk, and they surprised me by having that character survive.)
And, as could be expected, when SLJ delivers his much-discussed line
towards the end of the film, the audience cheered throughout its entire
delivery. I laughed; it was just fun to listen to the audience.

This is not a movie you download via BitTorrent. This is not a movie
you watch on cable, or rent via DVD. This is a movie you watch in a
crowded movie theater. Because only then will it be fun; only then will
the energy of the movie and the audience make the experience
worthwhile.
