
We saw this tonight. It was wonderful. My husband took one look at all
the little girls seated in the theater and said, "Did you choose the
right movie?" But he laughed from start to finish, as did all the other
men in the theater.

The story is about a selfish star quarterback who plays for the Boston
Rebels NFL team. (Ah, if only it were so). He has a fabulous bachelor
pad and a bulldog. He adores Elvis and has adopted his nickname,
calling himself Joe "The King" Kingman. A wee eight year-old girl shows
up on his doorstep and says she is his daughter. This throws him off
balance to say the least.

The Rock plays the part very well. I heard a LOT of sniffles during
emotional parts. The little girl who plays his daughter is adorable.

I highly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a child of the 1960s, and grew up seeing many of those classic
Walt Disney films when originally released. After Walt Disney passed
away, the Disney films decades later didn't seem to have that same feel
to them. "The Game Plan" seems like one of those classic Disney films
from the 60s, but up to date rather than in days gone by. I saw a Sneak
Preview on Saturday. In "The Game Plan," Boston Quarterback Joe Kingman
is quite surprised when he suddenly learns that he has a 6 year old
daughter from a previous marriage. It is a story on how his life
changes from the playboy lifestyle of perhaps the most eligible
bachelor in the NFL to that of a high profile dad. It's a light hearted
comedy. My call on "The Game Plan" is that it will be #1 at the Box
Office this weekend. It's a good movie. Go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was very good. A great family movie with the only purpose of
entertaining people with that unique touch that only Disney can give.
It has a very simple yet enjoyable story about a famous football player
who's life is all about football, parties, women and his dog apparently
a very good life but also a very lonely one when someday a girl appears
at his door telling that he is her dad and there's where he must learn
how to be a parent and at the same time to live. The cast is good. The
Rock proves that he is more than an action hero, he also can do comedy
in a very good way, the little girl Madison Pettis is so cute and his
acting is great, she looks very natural. Roselyn Sanchez delivers a
good supporting role as the girl's ballet teacher and Kyra Sedgwick
although it was a short performance it was also very convincing. In
conclusion, a very good family that you will enjoy
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I got to see this tonight as a sneak preview. I went in excited
because the trailer cracked me up and wasn't disappointed. It was cute.
Some of the lines are corny but some of it was serious stuff. You get
to see some emotion from Johnson. The beginning cracks you up, you see
this guy basically in love with himself trying to make it to the big
one of his football career when he has a little girl thrust upon him.
He doesn't know what to do, how to handle her. I think that the
background relationship with his father could have been fleshed out a
little better,you only get a hint of it, but otherwise it was a good
movie. Some of the parts are HILARIOUS!! The little girl in the movie
has got definite attitude and it cracked me up. Overall it was a decent
movie, a good one to see.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I know that The Game Plan was very cheesy and extremely
predictable, but who cares? What were people expecting? It's Disney,
it's supposed to be this kind of a film. I saw The Game Plan with my
friend yesterday and we both liked it, we got a few laughs from it and
it was over all a well made movie. We were both very impressed with the
little actress, Madison Pettis, who played The Rock's daughter, she was
incredibly believable and didn't over do her role or was too cute that
it made you sick. The script may not be Oscar material, but it was
perfect for a family film and the story while it may not be the most
original, still had it's funny and touching moments.

Joe is a quarterback on Boston's football team and they are about to go
to the championships. His personal life is usual the same each night,
party all night with his buds and party all night with the good looking
women. But all that changes when there's a stranger at the door, a
little girl who claims to be his daughter, her name is Peyton and that
she's his daughter from a short marriage he had. With his expensive
home and party life style, Joe may need to make some changes to his
life, as hard as that may be. But he ends up gaining something more in
the end, a loving daughter to call him "daddy".

Like I said, this is a Disney film, don't expect Oscar worthy material,
it's just a fun little family flick. No one will ever get sick of the
"big guy with muscles" trying to relate to the little one's, just look
at Kindergarten Cop or The Pacifier, both films were good and have a
lot of fans. Besides if someone can tell me the honest truth that they
were not laughing at The Rock's allergic reaction to cinnamon and
started speaking like Daffy Duck, they really must not have a funny
bone in their body. The Game Plan is the perfect family film for the
season, it's a cute film.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This was a thoroughly enjoyable family movie. Saw it with my wife and
10 year old son and we all had a great time. The Rock is improving as
an actor and was quite funny, especially in the Ballet... The little
girl was very cute. The humor was squeaky clean and the message was
clear and sweet. Loved it. Kyra Sedwick was funny in places which I'm
not used to seeing. The supporting cast of football players was well
done. There isn't much football in the movie so it won't turn off
non-athletes. I think the Rock's charm will continue to drive his
career as he is able to always bring the charm while pulling off the
tough male ego.
<|_=00=_|>
In "The Game Plan" after being high-jacked to the mall by his 8
year-old daughter Peyton (adorable Madison Pettis) and her ballerina
crew, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson as Superstar Quarterback Joe Kingman is
held captive at a "Make Your Own Doll" shop. Roselyn Sanchez as
Peyton's ballet instructor Monique arrives to the rescue. "The Rock",
crammed in children's chair, is combing out the hair of the doll he
made. "The Rock" humbly tells Monique, "Thanks for saving me" Joe
wistfully concedes that he is not at all good at thisbeing a Dad.
Monique reminds him that women being better anyway, are better at this
sort of thing. Then in a touching admission, she tells Joe that fathers
are important in that they teach daughters courage, and "They make us
brave." Director Andy Fickman's "The Game Plan" is surprisingly both
touching and sweet. Sentimental is a givenif you have a problem with
that, you need to crawl back under a rock, because the sunshine emerges
shamelessly in "The Game Plan". "The Game Plan" works, because of The
Rock's undeniable charm, and his natural chemistry with Madison Pettis.

Film critic Richard Roeper commented that The Rock has squandered the
opportunity of being the next huge action star, with his recent roles.
I don't think so. For one thing: Action star roles are not very
interesting. The Rock is a smart guy, and he is choosing roles with
career longevity in mind. The Rock's gift is light comedy. He is
incredibly charming and has amazing comedic timing. Granted this comedy
leverages the incongruity of his physicality and athleticism offset
against cute little Peyton "P" and gorgeous Monique. The Rock is a
strikingly handsome man, and standing 6'4" with the ripped body he is
imposing. Note the great CGI work seamlessly covers his tribal tattoos.
I am a huge fan of The Rock. Here in "The Game Plan" he is funny,
charming, and charismatic. As cute and adorable as Madison Pettis is as
P, The Rock is never over shadowed. His evolving relationship with
Peyton is poignant and endearing. Pettis is stellar, not overplaying
cute-- she just is. She also displays amazing restraint on the whole
precociousness little girl deal. Although the audience is a little
shaky on Peyton's real story, her mission to know her father (Joe)
lands as genuine. Among the interview questions she asks trolling for
the desired answer, "What is best thing that ever happened to you?" The
initially selfish Joe says that it his limited collectors release of
his athletic shoe. Wrong answer.

The Rock plays Joe Kingman, All-Pro Quarterback for the playoff bound
Boston Rebels. He revels in his celebrity lifestyle. Joe is rich,
good-looking, single, and lives with his bulldog Spike in his mega
bachelor pad. His agent Stella (taut and hilarious Kyra Sedgwick) tells
Joe, he is about to make "Tiger Woods money". He parties with
supermodel Tatiana (good vapid Kate Nauta). He hangs with his player
crew (hilarious Hayes MacArthur, Brian White, and Jamal Duff). Arrogant
Joe mercilessly tells his wide receiver Sanders (solid and charming
Morris Chestnut) that he needs to retrieve his "Man Card". That is the
way Joe rolls. Joe is also a greatness poser. Joe is all "I am great.
You're not." Joe's world immediately alters when little Peyton (Pettis)
arrives at Joe's door, announcing that she is in fact his daughter.
Peyton tells Joe that she is staying with him for 4 weeks while her mom
is doing humanitarian work in Africa, and can not be reached by cell
phone.

In recap, Joe is now a Dad, and leading his Rebels to the Super Bowl.
Clearly he has a clue for only one of these responsibilities.
Fortunately, Joe finds a dance school for little ballerina Peyton. To
his utter disbelief the instructor Monique (beautiful and feisty
Roselyn Sanchez) has no idea regarding Joe's celebrity. Monique soon
enrolls Joe into his responsibility as a parent. The resulting
aftermath is Joe's participation in a ballet production. There is a
hysterical scene as Monique hands Joe his ballet tights. Joe dismisses,
"Oh, no! I am a freakishly large man!" Will Joe knock it off, and
surrender to his innate greatness becoming a leader for his team and a
loving father for Peyton? No worries. Thankfully "The Game Plan" is a
Disney Pictures movie. "The Game Plan" is also the rarity in
contemporary timesa family movie that is smart, sentimental, sweet,
and all heart. The Rock is awesome. In my older age I'll embrace cheesy
and sentimental, when stories celebrate the very best in people. Take a
chance on "The Game Plan".
<|_=00=_|>
Big Joe Kingman is living the all-American dream: he's a superstar
quarterback and living large. His team loves him and big sponsorships
are flowing thick and fast.

There's only one little hiccup for the big man: an 8 year-old girl
shows up on his doorstep one evening. The King's entire life is turned
upside down within a month.

Joe discovers that this peppy little gal is none other than his
daughter. Dad and daughter have to make up for lost time, often with
hilarious results.

The Rock shows yet again why he is an all-American superstar: he's
bright, brawny and full of talent. Madison Pettis does a sterling job
as Peyton Kelly, his sassy little daughter.

The duo has brilliant on-screen chemistry and Disney has compiled a
sure-fire family winner in The Game Plan.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally, it was the trailers that made me want to see this movie
from the start. Let's get serious, this was not supposed to be
'Shindler's List' or something. It's a comedy about a football player!
If anyone expected anything more they were deluded from the start. "The
Rock" was very decent in this role, but he wasn't supposed to be the
superstar of the film, just the superstar of the team -- that a big
difference. Pettis was amazing, as was Kyra Sedgwick. And the
team...the team of knucklehead football players stole the show in every
scene they were in. The comedy had its slapstick moments but for the
most part it was heartfelt and warm. I took my 7 and 6 year old
daughters to see and they loved it. Definitely a must-see family film
and certainly a DVD buy!
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone knew the Rock could act but this was a major stretch that he
handled amazingly. The cast was terrific and the chemistry between him
and Madison was adorable. I think what I liked best was the story line.
Disney actually branched out with something different and gave it a
wonderful cast. There's a lot more to this then meets the eye so don't
just judge it but the trailer or reviews go decide for yourself. It was
a treat to sit there and watch this. It's one of those movies you look
forward to seeing and it doesn't disappoint. The dog especially is one
reason to see this because it's adorable and played a big role in a
way. The music was great Elvis all the way and Yes the Rock can sing.
Recommended for anyone who likes a great family movie!~!
