
I was lucky enough to attend the first UK screening of Shane Meadows'
latest offering, THIS IS ENGLAND, last Tuesday at the London Film
Festival. Having been a fan of Meadows' work since seeing
TWENTYFOURSEVEN in 1998, I have anticipated each of his new films with
excitement and great interest. Meadows' films defy categorisation and
always exceed expectation, as anyone who has seen A ROOM FOR ROMEO
BRASS or DEAD MAN'S SHOES will attest. THIS IS ENGLAND had a lot to
live up to 

Set during the summer of 1983, THIS IS ENGLAND is the story of Shaun
(Thomas Turgoose); a precocious twelve-year-oldcoming to terms with the
death of his father. Shaun is soon inducted into a group of local
skinheads; a fun loving bunch who spend days committing petty vandalism
and listening to ska records. Although much younger than the other
members of the group, Shaun endears himself upon them with his sheer
determination and defiance, and is quickly embraced as their mascot.
However, the frivolity and naivety comes to an abrupt conclusion when
ex-member Combo (Steven Graham) is released from a spell in prison.
Combo soon causes a rift within the group and becomes the catalyst for
them becoming a militant, racist force.

Anyone familiar with Meadows' earlier work will notice many parallels
between this and A ROOM FOR ROMEO BRASS; the film is told from a
child's perspective and the corruption of youth/innocence is an
underlining theme. Like ROMEO BRASS, THIS IS ENGLAND manages to balance
the light-hearted and often hilarious, with menace and tension that's
excruciating to endure. Many British films that attempt dramedy falter
because one or the other/both is unconvincing, but Meadows manages to
combine comedy and drama seamlessly; the laughs come thick and fact but
the jolts come harder than a kick to the head.

Typically for a Meadows film, THIS IS ENGLAND is exceptionally well
written with some infectious dialogue and fully-fleshed characters,
though one of the film's stand-out attributes is that of Danny Cohen's
cinematography. Being a film set during the 80s, its look plays a
significant part in the audience buying into the film. Many 80s-set
films have been betrayed by garish lighting and ultimately end up
looking like contemporary people parading around in 20-year-old
clothing. Cohen's photography really manages to encapsulate the bleak
feeling that was evident of the time, and is both gritty and dour. THIS
IS ENGLAND is a film without polished aesthetics and one that has the
raw visual style that's not be seen since the films of Alan Clarke
(SCUM, MADE IN Britain, THE FIRM).

In addition to the film's look, Meadow's has raided the vaults for a
whole host of archive footage leading thirty-something viewers on a
trip down memory lane. The credit sequence alone features footage from
Roland Rat, the Falklands and Knight Rider; As a child of the 80s, I
literally sat in the cinema beaming  It's a great hook into a
wonderful film.

As assured as Meadows' writing and direction is, the film benefits
greatly from its ensemble cast. Predominantly made up of teenagers, the
cast of THIS IS ENGLAND excel beyond belief, without one putting a foot
wrong. A ROOM FOR ROMEO BRASS' Andrew Shim is superb as Milky, as is
Stephen Graham as Combo - who gives a terrific and complex performance.
However, THIS IS ENGLAND belongs to Thomas "Tommo" Tugoose  for a
débutant child actor he is astonishing and effortlessly conveys the
array of mixed emotions the material requires.

In conclusion, THIS IS ENGLAND is essential viewing for anyone with
even a passing interest in film. Once again Meadows has set a precedent
for British filmmakers and has eclipsed many of his contemporaries.
THIS IS ENGLAND may not make for comfortable viewing but it is cinema
at its best.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw "This Is England" at the Berlin Film Festival where it was
screened in the section "Generation 14P". This section is an extension
of the former "Kinderfilmfest" for teenagers between 14 and 18 -
dealing with more mature issues.

I had no clue about it, just that it would be about skinheads in
England and that it takes place in the 80s. I wasn't expecting much,
hoping for something like a British version of "American History X" - I
got a lot more.

When I left the theater I was absolutely stunned! Cast and script were
outstanding. I loved the rough editing and grainy camera style that
made the movie look a real 80s flick! And last but not least: the
soundtrack is a blast! And coming from a director who used to be part
of the real scene, it might be the most authentic picture about
skinheads ever made.

Although it didn't get as much attention as the Hollywood films that
had their premiere at the Berlinale Palast, it's a lot stronger than
almost all the films in competition.

I hope it will make its way the movies and not end up as a
direct-to-video-flick... 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
After the success of 'Dead Man's Shoes' local filmmaker Shane Meadows
returns with 'This is England' a story of absence and isolation,
belonging and the power of persuasion. Set in 1983 with a backdrop of
the war in the Falklands the film opens with a montage of relevant
images everything from Maggie Thatcher to Knight Rider that really take
you back and put you in the right space to meet Shaun. Shaun the films
central character (played superbly by newcomer Thomas Turgoose) is a
typical eighties kid, riding round on his griffter, washing neighbours
cars for cash to buy a catapult and being constantly picked on for
being different. When we first meet him we quickly learn that his
father was a victim of the war raging at Maggie's command. Enter the
gang Woody, Milky, Pukey, et all, a rag tag bunch of mods and skinheads
complete with crimped haired girlfriends, with the absence of his
father and any real sense of being part of something Shaun is quickly
welcomed into the group and takes up not just the mannerisms or clothes
but drinking, smoking and growing up to quickly. Things go OK for a
while until Combo arrives on the scene. Straight out of prison and a
British blooded skinhead through to his core you can sense trouble on
the horizon. Soon the gang becomes segmented because of differences of
opinion and fuelled by the war and the council estate mentality of
accepting foreigners' things start to spiral out of control and Shaun
finds himself in way above his head. A brilliantly written script that
can at times have you laughing out loud and at others sitting nervously
on the edge of your seat as the tension builds is delivered well by all
the cast. The music is fitting, mixing eighties chart hits with
haunting piano pieces and the cinematography is close to a previous
Meadows outing 'A Room for Romeo Brass' which gives it a feel like it
was filmed in the eighties. The attention to detail is brilliant as
shop shelves are laden with products we no longer see or have long
since upgraded there packaging. One of the scariest things was it was
hard to imagine that time in this country because any of us who lived
through it have almost chosen to block it out completely, but it was
done so well and had me fishing in my memory to fit things into the
time scale being used. There is defiantly a more matured Meadows at
work here but he's lost none of his cheeky charm and observational
skill and the characters he's created could have easily have lived next
door to me growing up. The metaphor of the country getting behind
Thatcher in the Falklands juxtaposed with that of the skinheads,
including the initiated Shaun, getting behind the slightly off kilter
Combo is handled with a great sense of poignancy and it is moving to
see both stories unfold from within the film and library footage.
Racism and intolerance are by no means behind us but here we are shown
one of the skeletons in the Great British (sic) closet through the eyes
of a child and one who would grow up to represent the next generation.
Meadows has said in interviews that it is partly based on his
experiences growing up and he sees a lot of himself in Shaun, I saw a
lot of me in the character but I also saw memories I'd have rather
forgotten. Funny, British and bleak Meadows is slowly climbing the
ranks to join the Mike Leigh's and Ken Loach's of this world and if
this film is anything to go by it wont take him very long. Any fan of
Meadows previous work will love it and no doubt delight in his
continuing growth as a filmmaker but everyone should see it regardless
as it is another fine example of British film at its rawest and best.
<|_=00=_|>
Fellow Midlander Shane Meadows has produced not only his finest work to
date but one of the very best films to come out of Britain that I have
ever had the pleasure of viewing. Just as the effectively chilling,
bloody (yet arguably flawed) "Dead Man's Shoes" showcased a passionate
return to low budget, focused film making, "This Is England" sees him
perfect his technique. It is a seemingly effortless achievement that
matches a warm, humorous portrayal of a young lad growing up with his
experience of the cold brutality that came with the 80s skinhead
culture. The way in which Shane blends these two aspects together
without compromising on either is most impressive.

Delivering a surprising, enchanting performance in the lead role as
Shaun, Thomas Turgoose portrays a youngster of incredible warmth and
charisma. He is befriended by a relatively harmless gang skirting with
the skinhead culture rife at the time. His strength of character in the
face of the adversity life throws his way is truly unforgettable, a
credit to both Shane as the writer and Thomas as the performer. As
Shaun discovers the joy of "belonging" in the gang, the viewer takes a
similar journey. Through sublime use of another excellent soundtrack
(an ear for music in relation to visuals is one of Shane's most loved
and respected trademarks) the joy of youth and life literally springs
from the screen.

What is particularly successful is Shane's restraint where it comes to
grounding the film in reality. It would have been all too easy to
escalate these events above and beyond the core group of characters,
creating a power struggle on a much bigger, thrill friendly scale.
Instead the film remains focused and convincing, not once do you doubt
the likelihood of events. The canvas may be smaller but emotionally
"This Is England" resonates more powerfully than ever before, taking
the harsh, greys of a story like "Dead Man's Shoes" and enlightening it
with a central character full of warmth and honesty. In the end this
serves to engage the viewer on a much greater level.

It is in comedy that "This Is England" truly surprises, not the usual
splash of dark humour but humour of much broader appeal. Thomas'
performance brings the sharp dialogue to life with a wonderful physical
range, the first half the film is crammed with delightful comic moments
that really draw you in to the character, making future events all the
more affecting. Much is made of Shaun's romance with a much older girl,
the scenes are tear-jerking in their tender, wonderfully observed
realism. There is much in the film that will trigger moments of
recognition in the viewer, especially (but not exclusively) those who
were young in the 80s.

As big time skinhead Combo (the other stand out performance of the
piece from Scouser Stephen Graham) comes out of jail the film takes a
U-Turn, presenting a troubling, unrestrained view on racism through
extreme nationalism, getting deep under the skin to question the source
and nature of such hatred. It is in this that we realise this is a
study of human nature as Shaun is presented with more extreme acts that
drive him to question the moral behind such irrational prejudices.

Book ending the film is real news footage of the political climate
surrounding the events depicted, prominent among which is Maggie
Thatcher's invasion of the Falklands (a conflict that's consequences
prove key to the central narrative) When asked "Will we ever talk to
the Argentines again?" on a radio interview Thatcher purrs "No I don't
think so" The parallels are fitting and thoroughly engaging. Inspired,
shaped and formed by Shane's own childhood, "This Is England" is
ultimately an honest, confident piece of film making right from the
heart. The film is a wonderful example of what British cinema has to
offer the world. The film may be grounded in period authenticity, but
the narrative is ultimately applicable to all of us, having experienced
the inescapable process of growing up. Shaun's quality shines through,
his experienced may be unique but the messages conveyed are most
certainly universal.
<|_=00=_|>
There is no doubt that this film is a truly great piece of film-making.
Shane Meadows crafts films in the same style as Martin Scorcese. We are
given a glimpse into the lifestyle of a group of characters over a
short period of time. It is very much a fly on the wall type of movie.
The point of these films is to understand the actions of the characters
rather than judging their actions. I have no doubt that there will be
some people that tag this film as being racist which is rather missing
the point.

The film follows Shaun a 12 year old being borough up in early 80's
England. He has lost his father in the Falklands war and suffers
bullying and isolation until he is befriended by a group of skinheads.
The happy band are challenged when Combo is released from prison.
Thomas Turgoose is magnificent in the lead role and the
direction/screenplay are also spot on the mark. For anybody that lived
through the period there are lots of reminders about the period. The
film is based on Meadow's own childhood and is quite mesmerising at
times.

I was gripped throughout the film and it also gave me plenty to think
about afterwards. What more can you ask for when going to the movies? I
suppose if you go to the movies for escapism then go watch something
else, but if you want a gripping thought provoking drama then it
doesn't come much better than this. Outstanding!
<|_=00=_|>
'This is England' is a must see for the type of persons who enjoy a
good old 'innocence of youth' narrative (including a very comedic,
almost cringe inducing, 'first kiss' scene) layered with powerful
retrospective British realism reflecting early 1980's societal issues
of the type that you wont see on any saccharin dipped 'i remember 1982'
clip show.

Based largely around the 'skinhead' activities of the early eighties
its interesting to note that the story really draws distinctions
between the types of skinheads - the nazi/racist and the two-tone/soul
loving skinheads.

Much like Mr Meadows other outings which tend to include a lot of
relatively unknown and TV only actors/actresses, they all throw in
sterling performances, particularly Stephen 'snatch' Graham as
'Combo'(sp.?) and the unknown Thomas Turgoose as young 'Sean'(sp?).

The soundtrack is as usual strategically lined up to help convey with
the overall look and feel, with musical styles ranging from reggae
(toots and the maytals), punk and two tone. It does however include new
music presumably for a soundtrack album sales point of view, what with
the most underrated Clayhill covering The Smiths(?).

overall: its as retrospective sharp as it is thought provoking, so if
you lived anywhere near this time then see it: you may just like it. I
you didn't then learn from this time in history when skin heads were
either very open minded or very closed minded.
<|_=00=_|>
The skinhead culture fascinates many directors and it's understandable.
It's one of the few remaining subcultures in the West, much because of
the Nazi connections.

But the skins in this movie aren't political and no racists to start
with. One of the gang members is even black. They live in a happy
community in the early 80s, having fun and being together in a totally
grey unfriendly working class environment. It's very hopeful and the
12-year-old finds himself accepted for the first time in his life. His
longing for the dead father of the Falklands war is somewhat replaced.

But darkness arrives with the skin veteran who comes back from jail.
And there are conflicts between the racist fraction and the others. But
whatever this is, it's not black and white. The characters are much
more complicated.

Much has been said about young Thomas Turgoose as the 12-year-old. He's
very good but the great portrait is by Stephen Graham as the old/new
gang leader. Absolutely brilliant work.
<|_=00=_|>
I wouldn't normally bother inflicting my opinion on others via this
database. However, I felt compelled to re-iterate all the positive
reviews and comments I've seen here and elsewhere for this truly
wonderful film.

I was lucky enough to be given a free ticket for the BFI Festival
viewing last Tuesday. A wonderful woman (now known as Lily) collared me
in the queue for tickets and generously offered me a spare.

We sat down and I knew things were looking good when the cast were
introduced but eschewed the usual Q&A session by quickly introducing
themselves and asking us to simply enjoy the film adding that if anyone
had any questions at the end they'd be milling around for a chat.

Anyway, enough of the preamble, to the film - it's an exemplary piece
of work beautifully encapsulating the feelings of the eighties. The
avarice of that time (both political and economic) juxtaposed against
the heightened sense of revolt against a Thatcherite government that
truly didn't seem to give a toss about anyone who wasn't on the gravy
train.

The script is razor sharp and the acting excellent! I'm not going to
waste your time reviewing it but I will say, please go and see it for
yourself (especially if you were growing up during the eighties)...

You'll be rewarded with a superb soundtrack, laughter, sadness and at
times real, palpable, tension.

Love & Rockets, Lord E.
<|_=00=_|>
A snippet of life in 1983- told through the eyes of an impressionable
12 year old-against the back-drop of the Falklands War.

This film shows Director Shane Meadows at his best, a new generation
Mike Leigh/Ken Loach. Gritty, ultra-real story telling (not least
because it reflects time and events from Meadows own childhood.

From the outside this movie might look like an all out "Doom and Gloom"
exercise (akin to Nil By Mouth?), but it is so much more! It has a
great sense of love and nostalgia for the time and place-not too
mention the Skinhead culture. However, it also shows how the initially
innocent fashion trend of the Skinhead- which came from the "Mods" and
"Ska" music scene- was twisted and subverted by a racist element from
within. Fashioning a striking look (near bald heads with imposing Dr
Martin boots) a perfect foil for those wanting to make a clear
impression of aggression for the National Front.

Performances are great- Turgoose as the young fatherless lonely boy-
searching for someone to lead the way. Special mention to Stephen
Graham as the aggressive, neo-Nazi, Combo. He is a horribly violent
man, but played with such depth by Graham, you can see he has his own
issues which have destroyed him. Ultimately, he is the saddest and most
tragic of all the characters in it.Graham's is an Oscar/Bafta
performance if ever there was one! Summary- A brilliant slice of life
from the 80's reconstructed with love , affection, humour and a dash of
"Venom"- eat your heart out "Spideyman"!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film last night with anticipation, but really wasn't
very impressed.

With the exception of 'Combo', I thought the acting was poor and the
narrative was limited. It came across like a 'made for TV' drama.

I felt that the film was very contrived. The whole set up of hammering
in the context at the start (yes, we get that this is 80s Britain - you
can stop now) was tiresome, and gave a very one-sided view of what life
was like in 80s Britain - poverty, war juxtaposed with royalty,
Margaret Thatcher, yet nothing in between? There were actually
middle-classes who existed back then - just ordinary working people,
with a decent wage and a mortgage. The Falklands clips also seemed to
be added randomly towards the end, for 'dramatic effect', I presume.

The sequence of events felt a tad disjointed, as the characters moved
one one action to the next without us seeing how their mindset could've
changed so quickly.

The relationship between 'Shaun' and 'Smell' was toe-curling. I
couldn't even look during the snogging scene. I find it very hard to
believe that she would've been attracted to a boy who was not only so
much younger, but also looked so much younger. I know there were only
four years between them, but four years is nothing once you reach your
twenties, yet it's a huge difference in your teens! In my experience,
that kind of teen age difference only occurs when the girl is the
younger one, since girls mature so much quicker, and are more on the
wavelength of boys a few years older. Sorry, but I didn't buy it - an
unnecessary plot point created for shock value.

The ending was somewhat abrupt and, again, contrived. If the flag
throwing incident was supposed to be iconic, then it fell somewhat
short in my eyes.

It bugs me that British films only concern themselves with either the
upper classes or the poverty-stricken. Don't get me wrong, I love
Trainspotting, and Four Weddings has its charms, but can't we Brits
come up with anything different? Why are our films always so hung up on
the class system? I was born in 1973, so wasn't much different in age
to 'Shaun' would've been in 1983. I grew up in a single parent family
on a fairly down-trodden council estate in a city in England. However,
my childhood experiences were vastly different to those portrayed in
the film - I don't even remember racism being an issue (although i'm
not saying it didn't exist). 'This is England'? Not in my experience.

The bottom line is that I felt this film lacked substance, and I was
completely bored and unimpressed throughout.
