
Let me start off by saying that I was introduced to the films of
Terrence Malick in 1998 when I watched and was blown away by 'The Thin
Red Line.' It is one of the best war movies ever made and while I can
rant about it at length, that review belongs on a different page. It
was with great anticipation that I waited for 'The New World.' I was
lucky enough to get tickets to an advance screening and the theatre was
full of people like me. Their take on the film was almost as
interesting as the film was.

'The New World' is a film that will draw out one of two very powerful
emotions: Love or Hate. I really don't believe there is a middle ground
in this case. I think it is quite possibly the most beautifully
photographed film I have ever seen. It is astonishing. The score from
James Horner is, in my opinion, his greatest work. He's a wonderful
composer but he has exceeded himself on every level. This is a movie
that can be watched like art (because it is) and listened to as a
symphony (it might as well be one). Very few movies leave me stunned
and 'The New World' is so luscious that I think it is worth the
journey, even if it is only to look at how beautiful it is and listen
to how glorious it is. Is that a superficial way of looking at things?
Perhaps, but they are the film's two most brilliant qualities.

'The New World' does have problems and I think it falls very much into
a 'buyer beware' category. Malick's movie is long -- very long -- and
feels every moment of it. I don't mind these things because I found it
enchanting; many in the audience with me did not. These are not people
who are 'dumb,' or who 'don't get it.' They are people who are used to
99% of the films that you will see. 'The New World' is very
self-indulgent at times. No one can reasonably defend the pace of the
film. I want to and I can't. This is a movie so full of substance that
it is detrimental. It is so rich and textured that it would be hard to
say where things could have been improved, but aside from the first
forty minutes which deal largely with the question of whether or not
the Europeans can survive the first winter or not, the dramatic
'action,' that is, the engine of a script that pushes one scene into
the next, is idling at best. 'The New World' has a plodding pace and it
took me on a nice quiet stroll that I enjoyed immensely. I can not, in
good conscience though recommend to the man on the street that he go to
see it. If less than a third of the theatre I was in walked out, I'd be
stunned. I lost count because so many people left. Mostly the middle
hour and a half of the film is to blame. Scenes drift from one to the
next -- they're stunning and textured and personally I enjoyed them --
but they involved a lot of hanging out. Two people hanging out in the
woods. I understand that the film has deep meditative and philosophical
meanderings about man's relationship with nature and how one impacts
the other. I get it. But a lot of the love story is about two people
hanging out in the woods. All the time. If one of them had said 'Let us
go watch the grass grow for the afternoon,' it would have been the most
honest line in the entire film. It is the only thing I will fault
Malick for here because it really does kill the film for a lot of
people. His intelligence should not be questioned. I wish only he'd
tried to focus the script a bit more and been specific rather than
general. Can two people from different cultures be together? We get it
already. We got it an hour ago. Oh, more grass growing ... must watch
... ha! Forgive my little joke.

The argument to be made though is that this film has not been made for
everyone (the studio is no doubt surprised to learn this and will be
scrambling to recover their money -- they did a good thing in making it
but they're going to lose their shirts). It was made by Terrence Malick
for Terrence Malick. I'm glad to have seen it but I spoke with twenty
people who were not. There will be constant arguments on the user
boards here at the IMDb. The film is going to have rabidly fanatical
supporters who think everyone else is just too stupid to get it. And it
is going to be criticized by many, many others who died a thousand
deaths just trying to sift through the movie.

Two final thoughts: the first is that I hate myself for having to say
anything negative about Malick or his film. He's a special film-maker
and his films make it worth going to the theatre. 'The New World' is
great but flawed and it is dishonest for anyone to pretend otherwise --
such behaviour is deceitful and pretentious.Thought number two is that
although the film is equal parts challenging and rewarding (as great
movies should be) it is especially important in the case of 'The New
World' to see it in the theatre. It is so majestic in scope that I
don't believe the greatest home theatre can do it justice. It is truly
epic in its cinematography and score. If it doesn't win Oscars for both
we will have witnessed a massive artistic injustice. NOTHING this year,
NOTHING has come close to being a threat to 'The New World' for either
of those two categories. Appreciate them as they were intended to be
seen.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was everything I had hoped for and infinite volumes more.
Writer/Director Terrence Malik simply refuses to see film-making as
anything short of an art form and handles his brushes (not to mention
every frame) with the tender care and command of an artistic master.

The warnings are true... if you're looking for standard Hollywood fare,
then run away. However, if you were trying hard to remember what
film-making is supposed to be about, then this film is an absolute MUST
SEE. While it is not forcefully spiritual in its aural narrative, I
found this film to be a deeply religious experience in ways that words
fail to express.

True to form, Malik affords the world of this film as much character as
the humans themselves possess. Long stretches of nothing but ambient,
nat sounds. Stunning snapshots of the peripheral influences to each
scene (i.e. blowing grass, running streams, towering trees). Even an
ending title sequence that lives beyond the narrative... breathing the
last breaths of a tale that has managed to regularly transcends words.

Sharp. Detailed. Purposeful. Bold. Brilliant.

I have not been this happy about a film in a very long time. Well worth
the money. Well worth the time. You will leave better for having seen
it.

I could not recommend it more!
<|_=00=_|>
First, let me applaud this film. I have been waiting for Terrence
Malick's fourth film ever since I saw The Thin Red Line. Arguably,
Malick is one of the most adept and deliberate filmmakers right now.
The New World is nearly flawless, and the beauty of Malick's direction
adds to the argument that film can still be considered aesthetic. Much
has been lost in the last 30 years, but Terrence Malick sticks to what
he knows. What some people may complain about this movie are the long
silences, the action-less movement, and the poetic voice over. This is
what Malick does. He is a modern transcendentalist. What he does with
film is comparable to what Emerson did in writing. The color is
naturalistic, and the sounds are earthly. It helps that Malick uses
natural light for his shots, giving the scenery more life and texture.
As for the substance of the film, what isn't pantomimed in subtle
gestures and movements is brought to life with flowing poetic voice
over. This goes all the way back to Badlands for Malick. But here, we
get varying minds contributing. There are some moments in this film
when the viewer has to understand the characters by their facial
expressions instead of their words. I think that will be hard for a lot
of people who are expecting a more vocative and kinetic film. As for
the acting, I was very impressed with all involved, particularly
Q'Orianka Kilcher. This young woman played the part of innocence
beautifully. I also have to give some credit to Colin Farrell,
considering I never expect much out of him. Unlike some of his other
movies, he was not in it to steal the spotlight. Everyone played their
parts without any excessive over-acting. This movie is a historical
drama, but I feel like the history aspect is merely a backdrop for the
Terrence Malick play. In his production, the flowing waters and the
forest canopy are the actors, and the gentle reflections of troubled
minds are the words. Truly, this is an incredible film. I have waited a
long time for Terrence Malick to wow me again, and he has done exactly
that. If you want a movie that tears at your heart strings, then go see
something recycled like Brokeback Mountain. If you want a
transcendental experience, one that challenges you to go deeper than
the surface of the film, then The New World is waiting.
<|_=00=_|>
The New World 

reviewed by Sam Osborn rating: 3.5 out of 4 

Filing out of The New World, completely speechless and without notes, I
could fathom only single adjectives to describe the experience. Looking
at these listed words on my memo-pad now, they read "Thunderous, True,
Beautiful, Solemn, Forceful, Gripping, Honest, and Slow." And for those
who watch The New World with a calm countenance, an open mind and a
ready cache of patience, Terrence Malick's long-awaited picture will
have a similar effect. The film is a masterpiece thirty years in the
making. 

His goal is plain enough: to affectively and honestly portray the love
Pocahontas experienced in those first years that Europeans cut their
first, fresh swath from the New World. But Malick goes far beyond a
simplistic love story. I was at the screening for Casanova a few days
earlier, where the film's objective was essentially the same: to
portray the love between Casanova and Francesca in the days of
Inquisition Venice. But where Casanova approaches love at a bubbly,
comedic perspective, The New World throws itself into a headlong
narration of love's sorrow. Every frame of The New World reflects this
painful, aching emotion, utilizing the sounds and images of environment
to incredible, innovative effect. The first shot of the film--an
extended shot several minutes in length--finds the camera staring into
a river. It's clear and pristine, carefree and surrounded by the
blissful sounds of an unperturbed forest. Soon ripples begin forming,
and we notice the quiet droplets of rain pit-pattering around us,
causing the water to flow a little, bringing about a contented
onslaught of lily pedals. The scene continues on, drawing us farther
and farther into Malick's deafening reality with only the sounds and
images of nature. He creates a calm within us with these images, a kind
of serene canvas for him to later paint the vivid brush-strokes of
human love later in the film. In this entire first act, little is even
said. But these scenes rarely grow tiring. He finds rich beauty with
every situation. His forest is lush and his settlements picturesquely
Dickensian. Malick shows great and rare confidence with this picture.
Few filmmakers would have the cool audacity to create a film so
primarily reliant on nothing being said. 

The first and most important of Pocahontas' (Q'Orianka Kilcher)
romances is with the infamous John Smith (Colin Farrell). He's brought
to the New World bound in a cage, punished for earlier mutiny. But
because he's the only soldier of the expedition, Captain Newport
(Christopher Plummer) opts to let him free on a strict probation. Their
first encounters with the Naturals, as they're called, go coolly
enough, with curious interest from the Naturals and tense hesitation
from the settlers. And even here Malick plays with flights of romantic
whimsy. These scenes of first encounter are shot in windswept,
overgrown grassy fields, with Pocahontas dancing and twirling about
them with her brother, catching the spry interest of Smith.

Soon the settlers hear of a great city of Naturals down the river, and
Smith is sent to investigate. Things have been going badly for the
settlers and Captain Newport has left back for London and a new store
of food and supplies. Smith's expedition is cut short, however, when he
runs into a narrow, maze-like complex of swamps and is ambushed by
warrior Naturals. He's taken prisoner by the Naturals, but granted life
because of Pocahontas' curious interest and her favoritism with Chief
Powhatan (August Schellenberg). This catalyzes our entrance into The
New World's most prominent territory. The scenes of Smith's time with
the Naturals are Malick's best. They're those first strokes of paint on
his canvas and the seeds of that palpable, historical romance.

But admittedly, even with The New World's supreme sense of confidence
and slow-moving progression, it sometimes wanders into the realm of
self-indulgence. It especially grows tiresome in the final act, when
we're brought from Virginia to London, our beloved Smith left behind to
be replaced by John Rolfe (Christian Bale) and his stonewall courting
of Pocahontas. I'd even venture to say that Malick could have left 30
minutes of these segments on the editing room floor, re-attaching them
later to the Extended Cut DVD release that's sure to come. But
movie-going patience is the mantra of the Awards season, and so some
bottom-dragging in films is what's to be expected.

What was not to be expected, however, was Q'Orianka Kilcher, the
debuting actress playing Pocahontas. Few words she says, but dialogue
is not always what makes a forceful performance. Her body language and
expressions are allowed to do the speaking for her. She's advantaged
also by her strong, muscular features that often betray hints of divine
femininity. Farrell also does well, particularly in his somber
narration. He reads it as though he speaks the words to himself,
whispering them almost, for only his imagination to hear. But his
physicality is manipulated nicely as well, exuding bubbly chemistry for
Kilcher. The two mix ideally. Their sorrow and love and deeply
resonated emotions are echoed about with their strong performances and
Malick's supreme direction. And although Christian Bale strides into
picture in the latter parts of the film, our hearts lie with Smith and
Pocahontas, and we find ourselves resentful of Rolfe's advances. But
this is just Malick's narrative trickery. We find ourselves raggedly
torn between these two equally honorable men, and put almost into the
same position as Pocahontas. It's precisely the reason we go to the
movies. We've let the director take his grip on us and lead us down the
path into characters and identities of his own creation. And with
Malick leading our way, and with characters as tastefully dimensional
as these, movie-going becomes a deep artistic pleasure.
<|_=00=_|>
A quite-literally breathtaking 120 minute montage of sights and sounds
evoking the first British contact with North America. The narrative is
minimal, even inconsequential, as perhaps it should be in a story that
is predominantly about the human need to communicate even when language
is a barrier rather than a vehicle to understanding. The performances
are universally outstanding, the cinematography and editing award
worthy, and the use of 'Das Rheingold' the most inspired use of Wagner
ever in a movie. 'The New World' is a genuinely poetic, lyrical,
visually stunning and heartbreaking movie. About as flawless as cinema
gets. For those still unsure of my feelings, I loved this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I finally saw "The New World" yesterday. It was quite an
experience.This film is miles away from any other that I've ever seen
before. It's a feast for the senses. Senses are the key to this movie.
You either let them guide you or you've missed the whole point. I
cannot blame anyone who has complained about how slow, boring or even
irritating this picture was. This is not the kind of movie that can be
appreciated by intelligent reading. Neither does it belong to the
category of highbrow artistic films that aim to an intellectual elite
of an audience and shut out the rest of us, poor lesser mortals. You
don't have to "understand" this film, you have to "feel" it. Just open
up your heart and let the emotions carry you away and elevate you. The
plot is simple and far from original. Adam and Eve, paradise lost,
human greed and personal ambition coming face to face with the beauty
of nature and the joy of pure living. Clash between illusion and
reality, dream and fact. The originality of this film lies in the way
that these themes are depicted. Muted glances, forbidden touches, light
and darkness mingle with the murmur of the river and the rustle of the
wind  the breath of mother nature. Dialogs are scarce. Mainly voice
overs run through the whole picture. I found them neither irritating
nor useless. They are uttered in the form of inner thoughts, secret
longings, muted prayers and they add to the dreamlike effect of this
movie. Acting was actually very good. That was an extra bonus for a
film like this, where actors are meant more to help the story and the
images unfold, than astound us with their memorable performances. The
actors' success in this movie lies in their ability to express their
feelings through minor gestures, glances and body language. Q'Orianka
Kilcher is a magnificent creature that embodies the essence of nature
and beauty. She bends, she submits to the inevitability of assimilation
but she never loses her freedom of spirit. Farrell's sad eyes speak
volumes of emotion that could never be expressed in spoken words and
Bale's kind-hearted demeanor is just perfect. "The New World" is like a
poem. What I got out of it was a bitter-sweet taste in my mouth, a
swirl of images and sounds in my mind and a wealth of emotion in my
heart
<|_=00=_|>
This was incredible. I'm living at the moment in the awful urban sprawl
of Dublin , Ireland and took myself right into the inner city to see
this and, to my surprise, found myself being transported not only to
another land but also to another time. When I came out, I was in a
trance for the rest of the day, pining for a land and society that is
no more and dreaming sweet dreams of angelic Pocahontas, gentle John
Rolfe and ruggedly genuine John Smith. All three of course excellently
played by Q'uiranka (is that right), Christian and even Colin who,
though the accent may have been shaky, captured perfectly what it would
have been to be in John Smith's situation. Mallick, of course, is a
genius and when his films are this good they're well worth the decade
or so of waiting. Also, I don't know who the director of photography
was but what a job they did, possibly the most beautiful film ever put
on screen. All in all, a masterpiece which I'll carry with me every
step I take in this ofttimes sorry world.
<|_=00=_|>
Malick's method is to frame films as remembrances. Remembrances of
romantic notions, whether freedom, peace, war or love (as his four
films trace). This way, he can exploit a languorous floating through
remembered reality that never is that gentle or considered in actual
reality. He can use his narration as things remembered, floating over
the sights. To make this as effective as possible, he plays all sorts
of tricks with the sound, having different boundaries of different
types between what you see and hear.

Added to this is a considered approach to framing. You may have noticed
that most filmmakers stage the action as if the world arranged itself
to fit nicely in the window the camera sees. It makes for nice pictures
and clear, precise drama, but we know it for what it is, a theatrical
device. Malick is like Tarkovsky; he likes to discover things and if
the way the world frames things so that they are off the window we see,
so be it. 

That's why his battle scenes are unique. With most directors, you'll
have smiting and dying nicely so that we can see it. Or alternatively,
we'll have point of view shots that are hectic as if we were a
participant. These two battle scenes have the camera as a disembodied
eye that shifts about as if it were the eye of dreams, or nearly lucid
recalling or even retrospective invention. Sometimes hectic as if it
were point of view, but never looking at what a combatant would,
instead having a poetic avoidance.

I first met Malick when he was a lecturer at MIT and I a philosophy
student. He spoke of French Objectivism, and was clearly bothered by
how the notation and language constrained the ideas. At the time, I was
doing my thesis on Thomas Harriot, who is the hidden motivator behind
everything in this story  the real story. Malick never saw the thesis
because by the time it was finished, he was off to explore this
business of experiencing from the "outside" in cinematic language.

But Harriot is likely the inventor of the "external viewer of self"
notions that Malick liked (as they reappeared in the French '60s) and
uses in his philosophy of film. Harriot suggested he got it from the
Chesapeake Indians. So the circle closes: a film about a people using
their own mystical memory-visions.

If you take a little time to tune yourself to Malick's channel, you
will find his work to be transcendent. I consider this one of the best
films of 2005, despite its apparent commercial gloss and the mistaken
notion that most will have that it is a love story. It is about
remembering and inventing love in retrospect. A world is always new so
long as the imagination of recall is supple.

+++++++++

The rest of this comment is of an historical nature. The love story is
made up of course, but that's apt for a movie that is about invented
memory. The Indians are mostly wrong, the body paint, hair and dress;
according to the only document we have, the John White paintings, men
and women were mostly nude even in winter and prided themselves on
tolerance to the cold. There is no mention of the famous local
hallucinogen, cypress puccoon which was widely traded and how a stone
age people were able to survive in a land a hundred miles from the
nearest stone.

(My original comment was deleted, presumably because there was a note
about the unpeaceful nature of the people. Readers may want to consult
good histories for that.)

Harriot (a scientist and mage) wintered over with a nearby "holy" tribe
in 1585, and after he left, Powhatan destroyed the tribe lest they
combine their magic with Harriot's and overcome his stranglehold on
taxes. He married the wives of the chiefs he murdered. Matoaka
(Pocahontas) was almost surely the offspring of this union and it is
why he sent her as a naked 10 year old to negotiate with the Jamestown
settlers, who Powhatan thought was Harriot returning.

Powhatan never exiled Matoaka. When negotiations with the settlers
failed, he married her off to a satrap in the north to expand his
empire. From there she was kidnapped. When he knew that Rolfe had
shamelessly promoted his marriage to an Indian princess and arranged an
audience with the King, Powhatan sent the two holy men to accompany and
protect her, those you see here. She presented to James, her father's
cloak that is also shown in the movie. It was designed by Harriot for
the his host, the husband of Matoaka's mother.

The scenery is very accurate and was filmed where things actually
happened and in a few spots within a few hundred yards of where Harriot
wintered over (and I now reside).

The Harriot/Matoaka story is a key source for Shakespeare's "The
Tempest," and it is likely that Shakespeare actually met Matoaka when
she visited Harriot. One of the accompanying Indian priests had an
argument over God with a Nixon-like cleric who subsequently published a
list of all the demons thus mentioned. You can see that list of demons
appearing throughout "King Lear."

Viewers interested in racial matters may be interested to know that by
the time of these events, Spain and Portugal had already imported over
a half a million African slaves to South and Central America.

Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3: Every cineliterate person should experience
this.
<|_=00=_|>
"The New World" has an opening five minutes where Natives rush to the
shore to get a view of the massive British ships that are about to land
on what would become Jamestown that are every bit as fantastic as any
of the scenes in Kubrick's "2001: A Space Odyssey". It's a perfect
marriage of sound effects, music and visuals that literally paints
itself onto the celluloid as a jaw dropping work of art. The nature of
"discovery" and the power of film is boldly on display in Terrence
Malick's brave "New World." 

Some viewers will undoubtedly get lost in the visual and aural poetry,
while others will be annoyed at the lack of a focused narrative and the
sometimes sketchy character motives. This is a historical drama, and
the amazing sets, costumes, and make-up attest to the wonderful
attention to period detail, but there's also a dreamy surreal nature to
the pacing that will lull some to sleep who were expecting a more
traditional docudrama. This is more about the myth of Pocahantas and
channeling ghosts than it is about the actual history behind the story.
The dialog is as evasive and minimal as the visuals are overwhelming
and painstaking. Plotting is secondary to the mood and meditations on
love, discovery, curiosity, innocence, and the clashing of cultures.

Malick does a great job at showing the civilized and barbaric sides of
both the Natives and the British. It's a wonderful testament to that
first realization that there is intelligent life outside of one's own
world. Central to this discovery of the "New World" is the romance
between John Smith (a modest Colin Farrel) and Pocahantas (an amazing
Q'Orianka Kilcher) which is displayed with just as much wide
eyed-wonder and innocence as Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden.
Christian Bale as John Rolfe and Christopher Plummer as Captain Newport
are also very good when they are allowed to act amongst the lush
scenery. Composer James Horner, who is probably second only to John
Williams in creating unforgettable movie music, outdoes himself as his
rousing symphony (coupled with divine music from Wagner) perfectly
matches the reverence and awe with which Malick uses his visuals to
paint the myth on screen.

Some judicious editing may have benefited the middle portion of the
film, which amounts to scene after beautiful scene of two people
falling in love while worshiping nature, but there are two more series
of scenes (one in the middle and one at the end) that are every bit as
uplifting as the opening one and serve as a perfect synergy of visual
and aural delights that completely transported this patient viewer to
another realm. I'm not so sure that this is what it was really like to
live in 1607, but I have no doubt this is what the people of that time
dreamed about.
<|_=00=_|>
Quite possibly the most boring "epic" ever envisioned; If you like no
dialog, lots of trees, swirling random cameras, trees, grass, silence,
and trees, this is the movie for you. It's a mind-numbing 2+ hours that
you'll never get back. You might actually hate yourself.

I'm sure the actual story of John Smith and the Native American girl
(never called by her name) is somewhat interesting. This version is
not. In fact, it's awful. 

When I could no longer take it, I killed the DVD and lo an behold - I
found 'Under Siege' on the Encore Action channel (for the 47th time
this month). Despite being a joke of a movie, it held my interest in a
gross kind of way. And it buried 'The New World.'
