
Alas, it appears that, based on other user comments here at IMDb, I am
in the minority on this film. I found it to be tedious and exhausting,
and the effort I put into sticking with it far outweighed any sense of
closure I received from it.

Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu appeared at the screening I saw and
introduced his film as the final entry in a trilogy that includes
"Amores Perros" and "21 Grams." Inarritu, in a comment that surprised
me, said that his intent with this trilogy was not to focus on politics
or social commentary, but rather to look at the modern family and what
it means to be a father, son, mother, daughter, etc. This may have been
his intention, but I don't feel that over the course of three entire
films Inarritu did say much about these issues. Instead, he has painted
a portrait of the world as he apparently sees it as a pretty bleak,
uncaring and unforgiving place to live. I thought "Amore Perros" was so
pessimistic as to border on nihilism; "21 Grams" came closer to finding
a sense of peace and redemption among the general human crappiness.
"Babel" sticks closer to the sentiments of the first film than the
latter.

"Babel" is of course about communication, or more exactly
miscommunication, in the modern world. It's a theme that has engaged
the interest of many a filmmaker lately -- the idea that technology has
made instant communication so much easier, yet people seem to be more
than ever incapable of understanding one another. It's a conceit that
greatly interests me, but Inarritu doesn't exploit its potential here.
"Babel" consists of a monotonous series of scenes in which people
shout, storm, fight and talk over one another, always in a hurry to be
understood without taking the time to understand. Very well, point
taken. But Inarritu makes this point within the film's first half hour
-- you only need see one or two scenes of this kind of frustrating
verbal gridlock to understand what he's trying to say; after that, the
frustration just mounts without any kind of pay off. People are mean to
one another, some are unbelievably callous (I didn't buy for a second
that the group of tourists who accompany Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett's
characters to a remote Moroccan village after Blanchett is accidentally
shot would be so uncaring as Inarritu depicts them). In Inarritu's
world, all authority figures are to be justifiably feared, as they go
around beating everybody up and pulling guns on innocent people.
There's no nuance here; Inarritu pounds his message into you. For
example, he obviously feels strongly about the mistreatment of illegal
immigrants, especially those from Mexico, but instead of engaging in an
intelligent debate about the topic, he sets up such an implausible, not
to mention one-sided, scenario in this film that you can't help but
agree with him.

The biggest disappointment in "Babel" is his failure to fully utilize a
couple of wonderful actors he has assembled. Cate Blanchett is utterly
wasted as the caustic American wife whose shooting sets off the chain
of events. And Gael Garcia Bernal likewise gets nothing to do as a
hot-headed Mexican whose attempts to run from border patrol creates a
sad ending for one of the major characters. Brad Pitt does better than
expected with the frenzied, frustrated husband of Blanchett. But these
people have no history. We know virtually nothing about anybody in the
film, yet are expected to care deeply about what happens to them. Maybe
that's part of Inarritu's point -- that we're all connected to one
another even if we don't know it, and that the world has become so
small that there are no longer such things as strangers in it. But this
is a film narrative, not real life, and you can't build a compelling
one out of anonymous characters.

After "21 Grams" I thought I was warming up to Inarritu, but this film
has sent me back to the detractors' camp. He certainly knows how to put
a movie together, and he finds engaging ways to tell his stories. But
his attitudes and approach to the modern world are so depressing and
fatalistic that his films push me away rather than draw me in.

Grade: C+
<|_=00=_|>
Babel is one of the most intelligent and artfully made films of 2006.
The film has two central themes - culture and communication. It also
exposes the connections between these themes in the arenas of politics,
religion and geography sensitively and intelligently. The tag-line,
though intentionally obtuse, sums the film up well - "If you want to be
understood... Listen" - The parable is designed to speak to people all
over the world who seem to believe that the meaning and importance of
political boundaries somehow supersedes the value of humanity. It has
especially important messages for Americans, however. And its release
was well-timed to coincide with an election (2006) which may, in the
long term, provide some hope for American foreign policy.

The film brilliantly weaves four deeply interconnected stories engaging
five cultures on three continents. The cultures are North American,
Mexican, Moroccan, Japanese and Japanese/deaf. At the heart of each
tragedy is an inability to communicate. The tragedies begin with bad
decisions that spin each plot somewhat out of control once cultural
interference and miscommunication kick in.

Brad Pitt and Kate Blanchett play a troubled American couple having
very little fun on a vacation in the Middle East. Susan (Blanchett) is
shot by a young boy practicing with a gun (The two Middle Eastern boys
who play the brothers in this film give Oscar-worthy performances,
unfortunately I can't get their names out of IMDb easily). Three crises
are simultaneously set off, as the Americans' nanny must find a way to
attend her son's wedding in Mexico while Susan's medical crisis
unfolds, and the poor Islamic family responsible for the gun begin to
undergo a devastating crisis of their own. Of course the United States
executive branch (not the government - sorry, we are still a
democratically organized republic regardless of who sits in the oval
office) interprets the crisis as an act of terrorism and a political
crisis threatens to doom Susan to bleeding to death in a small remote
town in the desert. Finally, in a seemingly disconnected story, Chieko
(Rinko Kikuchi), a young, deaf, Japanese volleyball player is coming of
age. Her mother has committed suicide and she seems bound to work out
her problems with her father by devoting herself to a lascivious
lifestyle.

The performances are, all around, excellent. The directing is exquisite
- perfectly paced and visualized. This is a great film which, despite
its commercial pedigree and big budget, achieves a rare level of
artistry - proving that blockbusters do not have to be sold short.
Babel will make you think, and think well. Make sure you bring your
attention span and brain, however.

Very highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Alejandro González Iñárritu's direction is brilliantly layered and
intricately woven. He deftly uses different film stock, imagery, sound,
and stories to weave a single tale out of four disparate ones, a talent
he's shown in other films.

The story by screenwriter Guillermo Arriaga and Iñárritu has one
incident ricochet around the globe, and peeling back the layers of
culture to show the frustrating inability to communicate, and the
poignancy and universality of familial love.

Each story is complete, but a series of snapshots that leave as many
questions as answers. As the stories unfold, the backstories and the
futures of the characters are chock full of possibility and pain. As
one commenter during the Q&A said, it was frustratingly beautiful. Each
storyline deals with family and conflict from the inability to
communicate or to understand.

All the performances are incredible, and very touching. Brad Pitt did
an excellent job, and the always outstanding Cate Blanchett, a
powerhouse actor if there ever was one, has the least screen time of
any of the leads. Few can do so much with so little. But the really
outstanding performance is Rinko Kikuchi as a deaf-mute Tokyo teen.

To say any more would possibly lesson the experience, so let me just
say this: it may seem confusing at times, but by the end, it will seem
like poetry.
<|_=00=_|>
Babel is my film of the year, and probably the best film I've seen in 
quite a few years.

The film looks at relationships, from husband/wife, parent/children, 
brother/sister and plays around the themes of love in adversity. The 
characters are all interlinked in a very random way, it's a little like 
10 degrees of separation.

The film is set in Morocco, Mexico, Japan and the US, and the director 
makes full use of the different backdrops to bring the picture alive.

The characters are deep and insightful, each has a problem to face up 
to and the subtle, naturalistic way their issues play out make for 
truly emotional cinema. This is not a film about heroes, it's a film 
about trying to make the right choices when your back is to the wall, 
and the doubts that go with this.

Great movie, especially if you're a parent as your protective instincts 
will kick in at least once during this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
"Babel" represents director Alejanrdo Gonzalez Iñárritu's conclusion to
a trilogy that begins with "Amores Perros" and continues with "21
Grams". That being said, if you have seen either of those films and did
not like them, it is probably fair to assume that you will not like
"Babel" either. Thematically and stylistically, this film continues in
the same direction, but increases in scope, illustrating that one
incident can trigger a devastating series of events all around the
globe.

Like "21 Grams", "Babel" is constructed as a puzzle, with different
pieces transpiring during different times and in different places. Many
viewers will no doubt see similarities to Paul Haggis' "Crash" which
explores similar issues; however Iñárritu's piece places more emphasis
on human emotion and requires the viewer to be much more participative
in the interpretation of themes and ideas.

The film is set into motion when the young sons of a Moroccan goat
herder get careless with a new rifle and accidentally shoot an American
tourist (Cate Blanchett) traveling with her husband (Brad Pitt). This
one act sets off a series of tragedies with global implications.
American officials interpret this as an act of terrorism and of course
the media reflects this accordingly. There is a story of the couple's
undocumented nanny who juggles taking care of their kids while
attending her own son's wedding in Mexico. In my favorite story, a deaf
Japanese girl (Rinko Kikuchi) struggles with her mother's recent
suicide and a father who is emotionally distant. This story doesn't
reveal its connection to the others until late in the film, but it is
undoubtedly the most poignant.

At its core, "Babel" is about the difficulty of human communication and
even though stories unfold in four different countries and in five
languages (English, Arabic, Spanish, Japanese, and Sign); language is
far from the principal obstacle. This film is more concerned with
cultural assumptions and biases that tend to obscure reality and how
our perceived differences keep us from connecting to each other. There
are many reasons to recommend "Babel", but most of all because of its
astounding ability to cope with issues of global importance while also
presenting characters whose individual struggles are no less
compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
If you  like me, and so many others  found 'Crash' (2005) offensively
finger-wagging and dumb (its inherent message was: "Racism is bad."),
Alejandro González Iñárritu's Babel will make it up to you with
refreshing intelligence, respect for cultures and crisp acting. The
plot outline is difficult to do justice in one sentence but much like
Crash it explores culture clashes in life by navigating multiple
interweaving story lines.

One of these is the story of the married couple Richard and Susan
Jones, played by Pitt and Blanchett, who travel to Morocco 'to get
away'. Theirs is a remarkably complex and bruised marriage at first but
once the plot gradually unfolds the root of their problems becomes
apparent. What is most remarkable about their storyline is that Brad
Pitt actually emotes as an actor (although is he is grossly facilitated
by heartfelt circumstances) and that Cate Blanchett regrettably never
gets the chance to shine in her performance.

Cut to two young Arabic boys in the barren craggy hills of the outback
of Morocco. They are brothers whom have just been given a rifle by
their father to protect their goats and now they are having fun in
learning how to fire the weapon. There is refreshing gritty honesty in
the portrayal of this storyline  from the dirt and heat on their
clothes to the realistic dialogue  and many heartrending moments due
to the aforementioned. But be warned, this is no glossy or romantic
depiction of North Africa...

Another storyline takes place in colourful Tokyo in Japan, detailing
the teenage life of a deaf girl called Chieko. Hers is arguably the
most compelling story especially in terms of sheer fun to be had. Being
a teenage girl is hard enough and Chieko finds that her disability
distances her from other people  the boys she is interested in looks
at her like she is a monster  and frustrated and desperate to be
loved, she indulges in teenage clichés like partying and drinking in
the modern mess that is Tokyo. Here I found the single most vivid disco
sequence completely sucking me in and not letting go until the
fast-paced euphoria of Chieko finally subsided. There is absolute gold
to be found in this Tokyo story.

Finally, the last storyline takes place in Mexico and the main
character is a woman called Amelia (Adriana Barraza), who also happens
to be Richard and Susan's nanny. When her son is getting married in
Mexico and she cannot get a day off, she takes the kids with her across
the border. Big mistake. I'm sure many will be able to identify with
the sprawling surge of Mexican culture at the wedding and indeed the
music and pace made this storyline both beautiful and enjoyable to
follow. It is evident that director Alejandro González Iñárritu feels
most at home in this setting and as a result, the story shines and its
characters emote.

Although there is a lot to keep track of in 'Babel' owing to its many
story lines, there is such a fluent and seamless intercutting of these
segments that it is impossible not to be entranced in the entirety of
the film. There is a wealth of juxtapositions of culture to be found
and much fun and visual stimulation to be had because of it. From the
dramatic barren landscapes of Morocco to the fast-paced teen world of
Tokyo, Babel treats contrast with remarkable sensitivity and skill of
the subject matter. In other words, it gives a nonsentimental yet
compassionate insight into the lives of different people whose stories
orbit around the kaleidoscope that is 'Babel', sewn together by
unsparing and uninhibited performances. 

Better yet, you get so caught up in each story that when it cuts to
make room for the next you feel almost a little offended  and that is
good film-making. Babel, given its content, is everything Crash was
not. Finally, it offers a satisfying and humble conclusion to an
otherwise epic film. Although I cannot help but remark, Iñárritu, come
on  you could have made a good movie in less than 2½ hours... *hmph*

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
BABEL is better than I'd expected it could be. I've heard the
beginnings of the backlash ("it's another CRASH") coming on the heels
of the Cannes Film Festival triumph... and I kind of bought it. I
respected AMORES PERROS and 21 GRAMS but neither really connected with
me... So I was totally unprepared to be as impressed by this film as I
was.

I wasn't a fan of CRASH -- I thought it was an overly-simplified take
on a complex issue and that the characters were drawn in cartoony,
larger-than-life strokes. BABEL, for me, is the complete opposite: as
dense and complicated as the current state of world relations (between
countries, between strangers, between family members and friends),
filled with complex characters who are never reduced to stereotype. The
performances are uniformly excellent, from the non-actors to the
unknowns (here in America, anyway) to Brad Pitt, Gael Garcia Bernal and
Cate Blanchett (all of whom give completely unflashy, ensemble
performances). And the technical film-making is astounding -- not just
the direction, but on every front (the editing and the amazing score
deserve particular attention).

The most remarkable thing for me is the way director Inarritu and
screenwriter Arriaga capture the different rhythms of life in Morocco,
America, Tokyo and Mexico. Rather than using some kind of clear-cut
stylistic device (like the color-coding in TRAFFIC), they establish the
distinct flow and feel of each country early on and maintain it
throughout the film. It's that kind of depth that makes BABEL such a
unique mainstream film.

My best advice is to go into this film with as few preconceptions as
possible and enjoy an experience that's become increasingly rare since
the heyday of the 1970s: an intelligent Hollywood film with something
important on its mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu's Babel weaves four disparate and seemingly
unrelated tales into a distinct, gritty narrative about the importance
of communication - and what can happen when it goes awry. The movie is
oftentimes difficult to watch, with ultrarealistic cinematography and
gutsy, honest performances from its entire cast, particularly
Oscar-nominated actresses Adriana Barraza (Amelia) and Rinko Kikuchi
(Chieko).

Told nonlinearly, the movie describes the travails of a troubled
married couple with a tour group in Morocco, played by Brad Pitt and
Cate Blanchett. Something in their past has driven them apart, and to
help deal with the problem they have taken a trip together. Meanwhile,
the sons of a shepherd fight over who's the better shot with their new
rifle and fire a blast at the couple's tour bus, critically wounding
Susan (Blanchett).

Richard (Pitt) calls home in San Diego to notify the nanny of their
children, Amelia; Amelia is in a bit of a bind, because she expected
the parents home so she could attend the wedding of her son in Mexico.
With Richard and Susan not returning soon, and with no one else
available to watch the children, she takes them with her to the
wedding.

In Japan, a deaf-mute Japanese girl acts out in reaction to her
mother's suicide, which she discovered; the virginal Chieko becomes a
huge sexual flirt, even removing her panties in a crowded restaurant to
flash older boys. Chieko craves human contact but feels that the
world's even more shut off to her now than ever before, and she
sullenly shuns even her father's attentions.

It should go without saying that this film really isn't for everyone.
It's gut-wrenchingly tough to watch at times, especially when Susan's
wound is being treated. You can readily imagine how it'd be if you, an
unworldly American, were suddenly in dire need of expert medical
attention in a part of the world that wasn't really famed for it.
That's enough to strike terror in me already, and I haven't even
mentioned how Richard and Susan are awaiting help to arrive in a small,
impoverished village with no running water or electricity - and only
one person who can speak English to them.

How exactly these stories are commingled becomes evident as the movie
progresses, but it's not all elegantly laid out for the viewer to
immediately grasp; this is accomplished in part by the nonlinear
storytelling. We see a scene near the end of the movie that is a mirror
image of one from the beginning, except told from a different
character's perspective. That's a tribute to the wonderful camera-work
and editing by, respectively, Rodrigo Prieto and the team of Douglas
Crise and Stephen Mirrone.

Barraza turns in a powerful, heart-breaking performance; at one point,
she's stranded in the middle of the Sonoran desert with her two young
charges clad in her dress from the wedding. Dazed by the blistering
heat, Amelia cannot gain her bearings in the blazing heat, and she
despairs. Then she makes a critical decision with devastating
consequences.

Kikuchi is absolutely mesmerizing as the silent Chieko. Without
uttering one word, she's able to convey a vast array of emotions, from
loneliness to hostility to love to lust to affection. She's alternately
serene and violent, in charge of and captured by her impediment. Chieko
resents her father, her volleyball teammates, and most of all every
so-called normal person who looks at deaf-mutes as monsters, creatures
to be scorned and taken advantage of. Like Barraza, Kikuchi's role
called for a difficult sacrifice: plenty of nudity.

Babel is a spellbinding, multifaceted story with towering, passionate
performances by all of the leads. It's full of moxie and stark realism,
and despite some minor plot implausibilities, it's a true feather in
the cap for Inarritu.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved "Amores Perros" It was revolutionary in so many ways and
smelled like the real thing even if I couldn't quite put my finger as
to what the real thing really was. "21 Grams" had gigantic intentions
and superb performances but didn't feel quite revolutionary because we
had kind of seen it before - and better - in "Amores Perros". Now
"Babel" and, my goodness, the first thing that comes to mind is, what
an extraordinary filmmaker Inarritu really is. I suspect that his
universe, even if it feels infinite, it is framed - beautifully so -
between the walls of biblical references. His methods may be way ahead
of the times but the roots are as ancestral as fire itself. I'm not
sure where I want to go with all this but the question is, Inarritu is
taking me places and that's what I long for in a filmmaker. He's not
taking any of us for granted and I'm very grateful for that. His movies
are experiences and I for one can't wait for the next one.
<|_=00=_|>
I admire Gonzalez Inarritu's balls and his talent of course. He opens
himself up for a barrage of criticism and ridicule but at the end his
genius wins. I saw the film months ago and I still think about it. I
haven't seen it again because the recollection is so powerful and I
don't want to mess it up by seeing it again intentionally. The Mexican
woman with the white kids in the desert has become part of my
nightmares. What an enormous thing for a movie to accomplish. I'm
giving it a 10 and not because I "like" the film so much but because I
saw myself coming to the conclusion that the film is a masterpiece all
on my own. It inspires respect. Christ! I can't believe I'm saying that
but I am and I'm meaning every word. In a way it reminds me of Bunuel's
"Viridiana" a film that I hated so much it has become one of the most
important films of my life. Go figure. To be disturbed. I mean deeply
disturbed is a strange experience and I suspect that it has to do with
being confronted by the truth.
