
R.V

My rating: 6.5/10

I went to see this movie with extremely low expectations, thanks to all
the negative predictions which had been circulating for the past few
weeks, and I have only one thing to say; DO NOT avoid this movie only
because your favourite critic has said that it is an unprecedented
flop, or because you think the title is unappealing  watch the movie
for yourself first, and be the judge yourself without being influenced
by any other guy who probably hasn't even seen the film. Only then you
will realise the true significance of this movie.

First off, it's a great movie to watch with the whole family, which is
saying something since most of the comedy movie nowadays are filled
with raunchy jokes from start to finish (not that I don't enjoy those
movies, but it's cool to watch a nice simple family movie every now and
then  "The Pink Panther" is a good example of the latter). Contrary to
rumours, Robin Williams does NOT let us down, in fact I think he is
just as funny as he was in his previous flicks  and if some
obsessively observant viewers do notice a change in his performance,
then give the guy a break, he's getting older he isn't what he used to
be 10 years ago!

I think it's a pretty good movie mind, it isn't a piece of genius but
as I said, if you wipe out all biased thoughts from your mind before
watching this flick and without the skeptical attitude, there's a good
chance you will enjoy this movie as much as I did, just give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer does this film no justice. My family wanted to see it and I
must admit it looked pretty stupid from the commercials. I've always
liked Robin Williams though and went along for the ride. It turned out
to be a vacation trip full of laughs.

The entire theater was howling throughout the movie. Williams was at
his quick witted best and the entire cast just seemed to fit the film.
Granted, this is a "roll with the comedy" kind of film. There may be a
little bit too much "potty" humor, but it isn't anything raunchy like
Wedding Crashers or other films aimed at teens. This is good for the
entire family and will have them all laughing.

Some of the plot and a few of the jokes are telegraphed from a mile
away but the strength of the performances and a troop of likable
characters transform it from a film you merely wouldn't regret watching
to one you'll actually enjoy."
<|_=00=_|>
I take my younger daughter to the movies every Friday night, along with
another dad and his girl. The movies are chosen to be kid friendly. and
so 'RV'was selected. This particular evening the other dad's girl
friend was with us.

The adults were resigned to a glum two hours of tedium, but - surprise!
Surprise!! - it turned out to be kinda fun. No one will confuse it with
Citizen Kane, but it was lively, funny, and not at all boring. It is
obviously a pay check movie for everyone involved - but they are all
solid professionals and deliver the goods. I was particularly
interested that Kristin Chenoweth, the Broadway star, was in the cast.

Sp we had a good time with this movie, which is really all you ever ask
on Friday night. The entire case does an ensemble version of 'Route 66'
over the closing credits, which is worth staying for.
<|_=00=_|>
Bob Munro (Robin Williams) has been planning to take his wife Jamie
(Cheryl Hines) and his two children Cassie (JoJo) and Carl (Josh
Hutcherson) to Hawaii. But at the very last minute his boss Todd
Mallory, (Will Arnett) calls him up and tells him that the biggest
sales pitch of his career is going to happen in a few days. Bob gets
the idea that if he rents an RV, he can take his family across country
to Colorado on vacation and also attend this business meeting. Funny
and bizarre moments ensue

Going into "RV" I didn't know what to think about it but when I walked
out of it just about an hour or so ago I must admit I liked it quite a
bit. "RV" is a family road trip comedy, a genre made famous by
"National Lampoon's Vacation." While no one will come out of this film
feeling that they saw an original comedic masterpiece. I think if you
look at it for what it is, a silly family comedy, you will be able to
enjoy it. Personally, I found the film to be very amusing, more so than
most others in the theater. There is just something about Robin
Williams' comedic facial expressions that make me chuckle. 

The whole idea of this rich upper class family traveling in an RV is
just amusing. You can't picture this class of people taking a road trip
which is why this film is funny. The film features some really strong
laughs including the scene where Bob tries to drive the RV over the
mountain. I won't deny for a second, that there isn't much thinking
involved when watching this film because that is clearly out of the
question. But honestly some of the stuff that happened in this film is
extremely amusing and I think in this case, it's amusing because it was
over the top. Unlike most comedies when they try to drag out a joke, it
doesn't work but in "RV" the longer the joke goes, the funnier it gets
in my opinion.

I also like how this film at times left it up to the audience's
imagination. There are a couple of scenes that would have been really
stupid and wouldn't work if they actually showed what was happening.
The whole raccoon scene is a perfect example of this. I also like that
although the humor was very low brow, it wasn't over done. What I mean
by that was the jokes are funny but they are somewhat spaced out. Not
like with "Scary Movie 4" where you have a new joke every other minute. 

It's nice seeing Robin Williams come back and do comedy. I personally
think he is one of those actors who can do both comedy and drama. He
played the father figure very well here and like I said his facial
expressions are always amusing. Also his little rap that he did in this
film was hilarious. Robin is truly a talented actor. As for the rest of
the cast, they were all fine was well. JoJo, who I actually never seen
in a film before, was decent as the rebellious daughter and Josh
Hutcherson was good as the rap loving son. Cheryl Hines who played
Robin Williams wife Jamie was also good. Also a very amusing appearance
by Jeff Daniels was also a lot of fun; he really knows how to play
those redneck characters. 

Barry Sonnefeld was the director of "RV" and I am not sure what to
think of him. While some of his films are good, some of them are not.
It's hit or miss with his films. I personally like the fact that a lot
of his films including "RV" have the dark comedic touch to them, I pick
up on these things and I seem to be one of the few people laughing when
this happens but hey I find dark humor to be amusing. Mr. Sonnefeld
does a good job in the directing chair here and he really creates all
these weird and awkward obstacles that the Munro family has to
overcome. Also the way he never allows the film to become overly sappy
with family moments is also a nice touch.

So in the end, "RV" is a fun time. It's not a masterpiece by any means
but just a funny little comedy that most members of the family can
enjoy. Robin Williams steals the show the entire film and I feel
without him involved this movie would have been really bad. When you
see this movie, just take it for what it is, a silly family road
comedy. If you take it for what it is, you shouldn't be disappointed.
This movie is just like the trailer and TV spots lead you to believe so
if you like the television spots or trailer, see this movie. "RV" is a
movie where you should be able to have a few hard laughs and be able to
smile the entire time. 

MovieManMenzel's final rating for "RV" is a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see RV with my husband and my two daughters (5 and 10 years
old) and all the family enjoyed it so much... It was FUN. The jokes
were smarter than in average American family comedies, though, at the
same time, they worked in different levels for different age ranges.
Robin Williams was not annoying this time, he was warm and communicate
truly desperation. And the weird Gornicke were just adorable. It is an
excellent family comedy (a genre that I like a lot, despite the fact
that I can't stand other mainstream Hollywood movie genres). I would
recommend it to anyone who wants to spend some quality and extremely
fun time with his or her family.
<|_=00=_|>
Once again, Robbin Williams doing what he does best. It is refreshing
to see Williams getting back to his comedy roots. I was kinda reluctant
to see this film after reading some of the other User Comments on
IMDb...but knowing that Sonnenfeld directed, and of course, Williams in
the lead, I knew I had to take the family to see it, and I'm glad I
did. My 12 and 13 year old kids, my Wife and myself laughed from
beginning to end. Our family could also relate to the "RV" lifestyle,
as we are RV'rs as well, and it is nice to see a movie made that
centers around this ever-growing hobby/lifestyle. Either see the movie
now, or wait till it releases on DVD, but see it...you won't be
disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie's advertising poster somehow made me think this film was
going to be like the Lucille Ball, Desi Arnaz classic, The Long, Long
Trailer, a movie I had long loved. As it turns out, this film really
wasn't like that one, but I enjoyed it anyway. While it was loaded with
sometimes predictable slapstick comedy and was kind of heavy on potty
situation jokes (but definitely not entirely, there was adult humor,
too), there were some lines in there that were really great,
particularly the ones uttered by Joanna Levesque (whose delivery was
such that I found myself laughing again over some of her lines when I
thought about them later), who played the daughter, and who was
beautiful, by the way. Cheryl Hines as the wife had some great lines,
too, and I enjoyed her quirky beauty and great personality. Josh
Hutcherson, whom I first saw and enjoyed in Zathura, playing the son in
this movie, is revealing himself to be quite a good actor, and I see
that he has been cast in the upcoming film based on the award-winning
children's novel, Bridge to Terabithia, which is likely to be a plum
role for him.

Robin Williams in his films can sometimes be irritating, but he can
also be extremely funny, particularly in the way he uses his voice, and
in this film, I didn't think he was ever irritating, and I particularly
liked his "hip hop" or "homeboy" routine in this film.

I mostly enjoyed this movie for the pleasure of being with the people
in it, including all members of the Gornicke family, whose generosity
of spirit I appreciated, and I thought they had a real cool bus. The
truth is that a road trip in an RV like this can be lots of fun for a
family, and exploring what America has to offer is a great thing to do.
In this film, the stunning "Colorado" scenery (really Canada) was quite
appealing and made me want to go to the Rockies this summer.

The movie had a great soundtrack and I also noticed some clever sound
effects that made the comedy situations even funnier.

All in all, this movie has a great heart and is a lot of fun, and I
enjoyed it a lot, as did the audience in the theater when I saw it.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife dragged me to this movie and I was planning on completely
hating it from the start... but, a funny thing happened on the way to
the end of this movie. I actually didn't hate it!! Now, it's nothing
special and I would suggest waiting until it's released on DVD, but I
did giggle throughout the silly pratfalls and goofiness. 

Kristen Chenowith played an over the top redneck wife that came with
big hair, ample bosom and too much makeup to boot! Jeff Daniels, always
completely likable, didn't back down from his "Big Texan" character
with hat, boots and thick bushy mustache. They stole the movie, and
made it somewhat fun in the process.

Don't go see this movie if you're wanting side splitting laughter, but
for an hour and a half of silly fun, it's a nice distraction! 

AGAIN, JUST WAIT FOR IT TO COME OUT ON DVD!!! You'll be happy that you
did!
<|_=00=_|>
For all of you fans of Ockham and Heidegger, this is a film for you!
Hilarious, intriguing, often mesmerizing, this is a film for the entire
family. I laughed so hard, the neighbors almost called the police. It
is almost as funny as "When The Whistler Blows".

If Orson Welles were alive, he would be directing comedies like this
one. I particularly liked the scene of the RV. Do I smell a sequel?
Anyway, if you enjoy the easy writings of Thomas More or Therese of
Avila, this film is your best bet.

The woman from Arrested Development was great too. It is a film that
really makes you think. It was almost as good as Click, and as
insightful as Man on Fire.
<|_=00=_|>
The executive Bob Munro (Robin Williams) is stressed, feeling
threatened of losing his job and his lifestyle, since his abusive boss
Todd Mallory (Will Arnett) hired the Stanford's geek Laird (Richard
Cox) to work in their soda's company. Bob has promised his wife Jamie
Munro (Cheryl Hines), his teenage daughter Cassie Munro (Joanna 'JoJo'
Levesque) and his young son Carl Munro (Josh Hutcherson) to spend
vacations in Hawaii, but Todd demands him to prepare a presentation and
attend a business meeting with the owners of a family company in a
merging operation scheduled in the same period. Bob hides the truth to
his family, rents a recreational vehicle and tries to convince his
dysfunctional family that a road trip to the Colorado Rocky Mountains
would be good to bring old values back to their family. After many
incidents and while in the trailers parking area, the rookie Bob is
helped by the bizarre but friendly Gornicke family. They escape from
the Gornickes and initiate a journey of difficulties and leaning,
retrieving their forgotten family bonds.

When I decided to watch "RV" on DVD, I had lower expectations, but I am
still laughing while writing my review. This hilarious movie has many
unforgotten sequences, but my two favorites are in the very beginning,
when Cassie promises to love her father forever, and when Bob complains
that the family watches television in four different apparatuses and
needs Internet to communicate among them. This family entertainment has
good messages relative to family bonding, pressure in the job and true
friends. There are some gross, but also funny scenes, and in the end I
really liked this comedy. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Férias no Trailer" ("Vacations in the Trailer")
