
British playwright/screenwriter Alan Bennett, whose scintillating wit
first surfaced in his contributions to the 1960 satiric stage revue,
"Beyond the Fringe," wrote "The History Boys," a play set in the early
1980s about English secondary school students and their teachers,
academic competition and the purpose of education, and the chaotic
developments of adolescent sexuality and coming of age.

Specifically, eight boys qualify for the Oxbridge entrance exams, an
unprecedented number for this particular school. Proud of this but,
more importantly, out to capitalize on the enhanced prospects for the
school's future that could follow if all eight are accepted into Oxford
or Cambridge, the Headmaster hires a special tutor to prepare the boys
for the exams. It is in the midst of this cram course that the drama
unfolds.

Produced by Britain's National Theatre, and led by NT Director Nicholas
Hytner, "History Boys" became a smash stage hit in London (in 2004) and
New York (in 2006). In between the launching of these two productions,
Hytner, with his theater cast intact and working from a screen
adaptation by Bennett, directed this filmic version of the play.

Most such segues from stage to screen don't work out well because of
the vast differences between these two mediums in their requirements
for effective dramatic expression. What may be spellbinding stagecraft
can become deadly stasis in the movie house, to everyone's dismay. I'm
absolutely delighted to report that the film, "History Boys," is a
glorious exception to this general tendency.

One major reason is the stupendous cast, led by Richard Griffiths as
the porcine, motorcycle riding, gay English teacher, Hector. Other
teachers are played quite brilliantly by Frances de la Tour (an acerbic
history teacher, Mrs. Lintott, lone advocate for women's achievements
in this testosterone tinged cloister), Clive Merrison (the cynical,
dyspeptic Headmaster, a classic administrator, utterly out of his
element among scholars), and Stephen Campbell Moore (Irwin, a hired gun
brought in to coach the boys for the Oxbridge exams, whose appeal to
them is not only to lie to get ahead, but, more positively, also to
recognize one's uniqueness, one's special qualities, and play them up).
Mr. Griffiths and Ms. De la Tour have reaped numerous theater awards
for their roles. The student contingent is led by Dominic Cooper
(Dakin, the pretty boy), Samuel Barnett (Posner, the fretful one) and
Russell Tovey (Rudge, the jock).

I think the film works primarily because of the snappy interactions and
byplay among the ensemble of the eight students whose odyssey is the
principal subject of the story. The boys are dissimilar types but all
are energized as only high spirited adolescents can be. And it is this
energy - the constant quipping, antics, and small dramas of daily life
among them and in their encounters with their teachers Â– which so
richly infuses the movie with the active pace and rhythms of movement
that film demands.

Bennett also helps the film's proceedings immensely by avoiding the
drawn out speechifying that can succeed on stage but kill off a movie
in nothing flat. His screenplay sparkles with laser-like little
zingers. Examples. Dakin is described by a teacher as "cunt struck."
Rudge, who appears more dull witted than is in fact the case, when
pinned down to define history, gives the notorious reply that has been
used in adverts for the productions: "History is just one f***ing thing
after another." Or this one, uttered by a teacher during a class field
trip to inspect the war memorial at Coventry: "While we may speak of
'Remembrance Day,' the real purpose of war memorials, like Coventry and
the Cenotaph, is to aid forgetting (of the realities of war), not
remembering." (I immediately thought of Maya Lin's Vietnam War Memorial
on the D. C. Mall, which so presciently violates this formula.) There
is also plenty of suspense here to keep film viewers attentive.
Naturally there's the question of whether the boys will succeed on the
exams, what the future holds for each. There's also philosophical
tension, embodied in the clash of pedagogic values and motives between
Hector (the quintessential scholar, the advocate of mastering knowledge
for knowledge's sake) and Irwin (the pragmatic, win-at-any-cost,
success coach, for whom victory most assuredly trumps truth seeking).

And there is sexual tension aplenty among this group as well. Bennett
deftly explores a variety of sexual expressions, primarily homophilic,
among the teachers and students. There is Hector's frank attraction to
the boys, never mind the presence on the scene of his "unexpected"
wife. And Irwin's more latent homophilia, which is not the only
important matter hiding in his personal closet. Among the students
there is Posner's dawning, hesitant realization of his queer impulses,
and Dakin's more confident and polymorphous sexual appetites. "History
Boys" is a triumphant reflection on the adolescent quest for truth and
authenticity, about the world and about oneself. My grades: 9/10 (A)
(Seen on 12/22/06)
<|_=00=_|>
So many moments in this film struck a chord with me. As a grammar
school student applying for Oxbridge, I have to disagree with the
previous reviewer. The worries and pressures, as well as the arrogance,
humour (and sheer smart-aleckness) that surround the boys' dialogue
perfectly capture the hilarity and torture of adolescence. The dialogue
is a little stage-y, but that doesn't seriously tarnish its impact. I
think this film expresses the uncertainty and risk involved in life in
a way that is both poignant and witty; often both at the same time.
Ideas about what education should really be could not be more
beautifully expressed than in this picture of young boys with their
whole lives stretched out in front of them, and old teachers still
unsure of what it's all about. Subtle and brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the good fortune to see a preview of this film at Picturehouse
Greenwich - the best cinema in London. I had seen the play in London so
was expecting to be disappointed at seeing the film of the History Boys
on the screen. However,I am pleased to report it is a fantastic film.
Great characters, far too many good performances to pick any one person
as best actor. The boys and staff of the school were fantastic and
totally believable. Not quite how life was when I was at school, but I
imagine many grammar schools in the 1980's were the same. 

I laughed out loud and cried and left the cinema with a smile on my
face.

A must see
<|_=00=_|>
A certain transcendence beyond ordinary language could, in one sense,
said to be the goal of every artist, communicating, inspiring, or
perhaps teaching us something within ourselves that goes beyond the
immediate form. Music can arouse feelings and aspirations, stories
might evoke similar events in our own experience and throw new light on
them, and great paintings can reach out to the sublime within us,
taking us beyond the mundane for a brief moment of time. There is a
creative element in each of us that goes beyond reasoning; the flash of
inner genius; the illumination of the soul. The question of how to
awaken that in adolescents preparing for Oxford or Cambridge is one
that admits of no straightforward answer, though the teachers portrayed
in The History Boys approach it from a number of angles, provoking
philosophical challenges to the audience about the nature of education.
Add to that the theme of awakening sexuality and at least one teacher
who confabulates both strands with his personal sexual desires, and you
have an entertaining story, even before adding the side-splitting,
intelligent humour.

The beauty - and also the shortfall - of The History Boys is that
people who are steeped in theatre made it. With the modern genius of
playwright Alan Bennett transferring stage to screen we can be grateful
that his masterpieces will reach a wider audience. But this is
Bennett-lite, and almost makes us long for the original, full-length
work. There is a notable absence of cinematic flourish - use of
lighting, camera-work, images and subtleties unique to the silver
screen that could have lifted the spirit of The History Boys to
something that is beyond the physical limitations of the original
stage. There is nothing here that could not have been portrayed equally
well there - which leads us to conclude that, apart from it being a
more accessible medium, the film is nothing more than a shortened and
only mildly adjusted copy of the play. All the actors have the same,
excellent projection of voice and perfect intonation that carries well
for a live performance but that lacks the sense of intimacy which the
camera can bring. Facial expressions are slightly overemphasised, as
befitting the stage, but lacking the subtlety usually required for good
cinema. At times it sounds too much like a recitation or performance,
resulting in an audience detachment that comes from not quite being
able to believe in the reality of characters before us or the emotions
they are going through. Director Nicholas Hytner (Center Stage, The
Crucible, The Madness of King George) also has his roots firmly in
theatre, yet his choice of subject matter has generally been so
outstanding that he has reaped awards in spite of this clunky, stagey
style (the one exception being The Object of My Affection - which was
less well critically received). The History Boys is obvious BAFTA-bait
but, like the Madness of King George, its pluses fortunately outshine
its weaknesses, and the story, humour and intellectual substance are so
engaging that you can be guaranteed lots of discussion afterwards with
your fellow filmgoers.

In 1998, Bennett (who graduated from Exeter College Oxford in Medieval
History) refused an honorary doctorate from Oxford in protest at its
links with press baron Rupert Murdoch. If anybody has the background to
tell an outrageously authentic and rebellious tale of a-list history
students with homo-erotic leanings it must surely be Bennett. He
skilfully navigates the ground between appealing to a predominantly gay
audience and a mainstream one by sublimating much of the homosexual
content beneath the time-honoured stiff upper lip of English public
school tradition, and then including hilarious heterosexual content
that makes seducing a woman into a war-game. Gilded epigrams, quotable
quotes and the most stylish of double-entendres ('gobbets') flood our
ears as the boys' literary skills are augmented with the most ingenious
of schoolboy deceptions. An ad-libbed enactment of a brothel scene for
a French class (where one of the lads removes his trousers for added
realism) is transformed seamlessly to a battle front drama when the
headmaster makes a surprise appearance. Literary references leap from
Thomas Hardy and Keats to Brief Encounter and Carry On films, and this
mind-enhancing (if questionable) juxtaposition is faultlessly analysed.
The question of 'what is history' is pursued with some vigour, from the
idea of 'subjunctive history' to Rudge's down to earth if academically
challenged definition - just one effing thing after another. Different
intellectual approaches are personified by teachers Hector (knowledge
for its own sake, whether it seems useful or not), Irwin (flashes of
insight and creativeness that stand out from the usual interpretations)
and Mrs Lintott (who suggests radical reinterpretation from a feminist
point of view, instead of history being the story of men's inadequate
responses told from the point of view of other men).

If all this sounds like an overly cerebral experience, be assured that
it races past so quickly that paying attention to the academic content
is an optional extra. Lighter viewing can tune in unashamedly to the
in-your-face humour, a great soundtrack (The Smiths, New Order, The
Clash, The Cure) and additional musical interludes as the lads leap to
an old piano and acquit themselves admirably with camp song routines.

Like the similarly highbrow Dead Poets Society and The Browning Version
or the more basic Dangerous Minds, The History Boys relies for its
emotional ballast on the familiar themes of seeing a successful adult
in a promising student, and the frailty of the teaching process,
especially when the teachers need to propel students to heights that
they themselves have never reached. For all its failings, that it does
so with the brilliance of one of our finest contemporary playwrights is
reason enough to see it. With its classic portrayal of English
institutions and education system it also, perhaps less justifiably,
makes one kind of proud to be British.
<|_=00=_|>
It's Sheffield, early 1980s, and eight talented students have achieved
top grades at A-level and have Oxbridge in their sights. The problem?
"They're clever but they're crass." So along comes Stephen Campbell
Moore, a radical History teacher to change their manners, style, and
even teach them to change History... Sadly, the boys' new found
adoration for History and the musings of Nietzsche mean that their
interest in the lessons of homosexual teacher Hector (Richard
Griffiths, excellent) is displaced, and this film, with its many themes
lined up, examines the school, its students and learning History.

The History Boys is a film I connect and love for many reasons. The
performances are stellar, and Stephen Campbell Moore and Samuel Barnett
are standouts in the film, for their portrayals of the creative,
innovative teacher and the sweet, sensitive gay teenager respectively.
Samuel Barnett especially; he basically owned this movie, and every
scene that he was in, I adored. He gives his gawky character such a
tenderness of spirit and kind soul that it's impossible not to love
him.

But every member of the cast is a treat to watch; Dominic Cooper
embracing the lead with vivacity, charm, and that raffish charm of an
80s teenager. Richard Griffiths is also excellent, and lends some
warmth to his potentially disturbing portrayal of a man with an
unnatural penchant for groping his students in return for a student-led
lesson such as "How to use the present subjunctive in a French
brothel". The cast bind the wonderful Alan Bennett script together
beautifully, and the chemistry and rapport between all the characters
is unmatched, natural, and a total delight to watch. This by-the-book
adaptation of Bennett's play doesn't add anything to the play, but
that's simply a good thing, because the genius and vibrancy of the play
is fabulous already.

Though depicting a High school in the 80s, I could still connect with
this movie with my 21st century ideals. The teacher/student frictions
and development of their relationship and respect is well-drawn and
intelligent. The wit in which the process of getting into Oxbridge is
shown, is reflective of nowadays, and there are one-liners here that
are bound to raise a smile ("History? It's just one effing thing after
another, isn't it?). Lastly, a cool 80s soundtrack guides our
protagonists through the story with ease and warmth.

A fantastically enjoyable, uplifting experience, The History Boys can
be enjoyed by everyone, from a Cambridge-educated boffin to someone who
just wants a laugh. You'll end up being drawn in by each character,
hoping for their successes, and being moved by the relationships
depicted in the movie. The best film of the year so far; it even makes
you remember the good things about History...
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who can watch the rolling credits at the end of THE HISTORY BOYS
without tearful eyes simply hasn't been paying attention to this
intelligent, richly comic, philosophical and tender tale of eight boys
ostensibly preparing for exams but also preparing for life. The writing
by Alan Bennett closely adapted from his prize winning play that was on
the boards of theaters around the globe before being captured for
posterity on film is 'rich and strange' and so full of those values of
achieving a true education that it serves not only the audience well
but presents a gold standard for educators pondering how to transform
their pupils into thinking, creative members of society.

Very briefly, THE HISTORY BOYS are eight brilliant but 'crass' young
men in Cutler's Grammar School, each coming from backgrounds not
considered 'quality' by the British class standards. These boys are
rowdy but committed to gaining admission to Oxford - a step toward
erasing their class standing and proving their worth. The headmaster
(Clive Merrison), himself not too well educated, is bound to get these
eight bright boys into the best schools and in that light he hires a
new teacher Irwin (Stephen Campbell Moore) to buff the boys into a
classy group who will be able to pass their essays and oral
examinations. The existing teachers are the testy, frank Mrs. Lintott
(a fine Frances de la Tour) and the massively obese Hector (Richard
Griffiths in a stunning performance) who teaches 'general studies', a
time when he lovingly coaxes the boys to embrace poetry, music,
sentimentality, drama, art, and in general everything that allows them
to take the moment and live it fully. The boys are torn between Irwin's
pragmatic 'teach them how to take exams' approach Hector's teach them
how to embrace intelligence and life. Hector is known among the boys
for fondling and the knowledge is accepted by the lads until Hector is
seen fondling one of the boys on his motorbike and reported. This opens
all manner of avenues of introspection, one of the boys confides to
Irwin that he is homosexual, another of the lads declares that Irwin is
gay and attempts a physical liaison with him, and the permutations move
an down the line. But the exams come and the joy of accomplishing goals
puts a different twist on matters and the ending is a touching as any
on film.

The entire cast is the original group that started the play and in
addition to the fine performances by the adults, the boys are
extraordinarily fine: Dominic Cooper (Dakin), Jamie Parker (Scripps),
Samuel Barnett (Posner), James Corden (Timms), Sacha Dhawan (Akhtar),
Samuel Anderson (Crowther), Russell Tovey (Rudge), and Andrew Knott
(Lockwood). There is an obvious camaraderie among the actors that
obviously grew from their long association with the roles. But the most
impressive performance is the polished veteran actor Richard Griffiths
who has created a role that will long remain in everyone's heart long
after the movie has passed playing. For this viewer this is one of the
very finest films of the past year! Highly Recommended. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
The History Boys is a very very challenging film for any audience. One
of these reasons is that it is driven by extremely eloquent
conversations between younger and elder intellectuals, each
conversation delving aggressively deep into the corners of conventional
logic and subtexts and fleshing them out in what different characters
arguably believe are the most truthful ways. Many characters are quite
confident and extremely extroverted and the ones who are not so
confident are defensively so. Alan Bennett's remarkably clear analysis
of the human condition is intimidating.

The other reason is because the story is one beyond social judgment.
Perhaps this is purposeful because being written, produced, directed,
and acted by English people, class-consciousness is surely existent
among them. But that's what I love so much about this film. The
audience, in order to understand and enjoy it, must release themselves
from the scrutiny of general culture over many, mostly sexual, aspects
of life. The film is not about homosexuality, but homosexual goings-on
exist prevalently in the story. It's also treated very nonchalantly,
and many straight boys are free of any personal sexual burdens that
would inhibit them from partaking. The very talked-about homosexual
element of the film exists as the most direct example and also the core
of the basis of the story, which is the pressure of society's
judgmental and devastatingly interfering nature with many things that,
if one were truly understanding, would not judge or interfere with.
This extends to greater and more complex idealism in the script, such
as the philosophy and meaning of education, the satisfactory or
unsatisfactory pursuit and outcome of success, the importance of art
and poetry, and the point of studying history.

I believe that The History Boys is an extremely important movie, and
the fact that it lasted for a single week at a small theater here in
Cincinnati is despicable and glaringly, stupidly contradictory to its
message.
<|_=00=_|>
A very good film - not setting black against white but looking at
flawed people and complex arguments. Also brilliantly funny.

Not quite as good as the play because some balance was lost - I think
this was due to pressure of time, A lot of the classroom debate and
argument was shortened, the glimpses into the present were omitted so
that Irwin's descent into pure spin was not seen and a couple of the
boys characters weren't fleshed out enough. This combined to throw the
obviously shocking scenes, such as Hector's behaviour, too much into
the centre of the film. The classroom performances also jarred as a bit
too theatrical, whereas on stage they were believable, apt and very
funny.

Worryingly realistic sets Â– I thought I'd put the smell of school
classrooms well behind me - and memorable performances from the entire
cast. Jamie Parker, Andrew Knott, Samuel Barnett and Frances de la Tour
were the standouts for me, but I still can't decide whether it was
their performances or the characters they played.
<|_=00=_|>
Plot: A group of Yorkshire schoolboys in 1983 try to get into Oxbridge.

Alan Bennett is a celebrated playwright who has written for the screen
several times. However on previous occasions he was telling a story,
whilst in this instance he is trying to preach. He wants to pass on his
knowledge. To tell us of the value of education, of knowledge for the
sake of knowledge, of constantly striving to extend one's appreciation
and understanding of high culture. It doesn't work.

Because Bennett started out as a working class Yorkshire lad this film
is set in Yorkshire, in 1985, despite the complete absence of Yorkshire
mannerisms, patterns of speech and period attitudes. Because Bennett
went to Oxford University (which, like so many others, he has never
gotten over) the characters all indulge in constant, faux-witty,
intellectual wordplay rather than conversations. It is difficult to
escape the belief that Bennett, rather than characterising them,
instead uses them like puppets to show the audience how clever he is
(every character, in effect, sounds like Alan Bennett). The result is
deeply annoying. Furthermore because Bennett is gay the schoolboys are
all deeply homophile and there is plenty of what can only be described
as homosexual letching over young, fresh boys. One teacher, Richard
Griffiths in full charm mode, is a serial groper of his pupils whilst
another teacher, in a revolting scene, is propositioned, quite out of
the blue and out of character, by one of his pupils. And as Bennett is
both homosexual and an intellectual we get villains like the grasping
headmaster obsessed only by league tables and the moronic PE teacher
who is also an overbearing Christian (and therefore anti-homosexual).
Both are, at best, shallow stereotypes. To win praise with the
chattering classes there is a scene conducted entirely and pointlessly
in French. Bennett, like an unruly child, seems determined to shout,
"Look at me! Aren't I clever?" at the audience.

There are other flaws. The cinematography is beyond dull, the pacing
non-existent, many characters have strikingly little to do and for a
film about the value of knowledge there is a surprisingly ignorant
section on the First World War that happily repeats falsehoods that
were disproved decades ago. The ending meanwhile is deeply
unsatisfying. The serial groper dies, cue melodrama, whilst all the
boys get into Oxford, cue collapse of what little drama remained. In
conclusion: pretentious tosh for metropolitan boobies.
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine a bizarre world where the school's top students sing and dance
for their favorite teacher in their underwear and allow themselves to
get molested by him on a regular basis. That's History Boys in a
nutshell.

I am still stunned at how so many IMDb reviewers regard this sort of
behavior as normal and seem to believe that it was also a part of
English school life. Now, which school was that? Penisular Glamor?
Buttwarts High?

First off - this is not a criticism of homosexuality - this reviewer is
horrified by the glorification of the abuse of the high student/teacher
relationship as portrayed in this film. Its like propaganda of
pedophilia.

If this film was about an elderly male teacher rubbing the genitals of
his protesting but yet compliant young female students the whole media
establishment would express outrage and crucify the entire cast - even
the best boy ; although perhaps the media elite might find it
acceptable if it was directed by Roman Polanski. 

This film was touted as another Dead Poet's Society, a story about
working/middle class boys making good.

What utter rubbish. Its not.

Its a film whose main aim is to glorify a fat old teacher who enjoys
regularly molesting his students who worship him. The same students
also randomly break out into a Vaudeville song and dance routine and
quote poetic passages from Auden and apparently enjoy prancing around
in their underwear in front of the same teacher. Wow, what kind of
pervert dreamed up this fantasy?

Predictably, the new history teacher is also of a similar sexual
orientation. And the only teacher who finds the fat teacher's behavior
objectionable is portrayed as a vile creep who is instantly vilified
when he touches a female staff member.

The climax of the movie is when one of the students offers the new
teacher a sexual service and when he hesitates - the boy criticizes the
man for his timidity. Carpe Dickus! This is nothing other than a
pedophile's fantasy - to have high school boys offer blow jobs to
reluctant teachers.

Wow! What kind of sick old pervert dreamed this sick fantasy up?

I've read this sort of story before - but it involved female porn
actresses and a male star. They didn't win any awards but it was
certainly a lot more honest than this piece of pedophilia propaganda. 

What I found really shocking was the advertising and reviews for this
film which were just as disingenuous as the blurb of this film. Few
mentioned the homosexual pedophile aspect of this film.

This is like advertising Jurassic Park as a pleasant family adventure
in a nature reserve and totally ignore the man eating dinosaurs or
reviewing the Jaws as a fishing trip involving three happy men in a
boat with no mention of the man eating shark.

That History Boys received so much acclaim and awards from prestigious
groups seems a sad indictment on the film industry: virtually no
reviewer dares to reveal the honest truth about this film - that its a
pedophiles fantasy. I wonder why?

If the story had been about a fat teacher who was feeling up his female
students' genitalia, the outrage from the movie industry and other
lobby groups would have destroyed the film, film's directors, actors,
producers and even the best boy. But instead - because its written by
Bennett rather curiously, the reviewers and movie industry praise it
sky high and call the student molesting teacher "a flawed hero". What
utter hypocrisy.

As for the History teaching aspect - a perverse twist has been added.
The new teacher advices his pupils to say positive things about two of
the most evil men in history, Hitler and Stalin, to get admission to a
prestigious British university. Those two were directly responsible for
the deaths, rapes, tortures, and enslavement of uncountable number of
men, women and children.

Just great, perversity in logic too.

Bennett and the whole cast of the show, including its producers and
actors ought to read out the names and details of all the people Hitler
and Stalin killed, and for good measure Mao, Castro, and Pol Pot too.

If I could give this film a -1000 I would. 

In summary, History Boys is a film which glorifies the sexual abuse of
high school students. Its a male pedophiles' fantasy.

It also demonstrates the utter hypocrisy and perversity in the media
industry who choose to downplay this central theme of the film. Their
sense of moral judgment is so far off its not even on the same planet,
possibly on Uranus.
