
The Express was one of the best sports movies I have seen. It tells the
story of Ernie Davis, who was the first African American to win the
Heisman Trophy and his relationship with his coach, Ben Schwarzwalder.

It is set in the late 50's where there was still a great deal of
prejudice against African Americans, even in the northern states where
segregation was not overt. Ernie's optimism and willingness to be the
best football player he can be, not just the best African American
football player was portrayed perfectly by Rob Brown. He was inspiring
and you couldn't help rooting for him to succeed.

Ben was a crusty, set in his ways coach, who couldn't see beyond
winning the game. Ernie helped him see that a football team is made up
of individuals who have to pull together to achieve their goals. Dennis
Quaid is an excellent actor, who can say so much with just a smile or a
raised eyebrow. He is so natural, it is as if he isn't acting at all.
Dennis & Rob have a very good chemistry, and they made every scene
believable.

The Express was similar to the Rookie, another great film that Dennis
Quaid starred in. Both films had just the right amount of drama, set
off with little bits of comedy to relieve the tension.

At the showing I attended, the audience was very moved by the film
because when it was over, there was much applause, something you don't
hear much in movies these days.

You don't have to be a football fan to love this movie. I highly
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I saw EXPRESS yesterday and truly enjoyed this movie. We
love movies based on true stories and also enjoy sports so this was a
winning combination! We found this movie to be truly captivating and
beautifully told. The acting was superb.....everyone did a fantastic
job of making it all very real. We didn't know anything about Ernie
Davis and feel so privileged to know his story. Of course we knew Jim
Brown, but Ernie never even had a chance to show his real talents to
the world via the Cleveland Browns. What a gifted young man he was and
all the difficulties he had to face made him even more special. As far
as the people who don't appreciate WV being shown in that light, my
husband was in the Army in 1960-1963, and whether it was WV, NC, SC, or
any other state in that vicinity that is exactly how it was and he
experienced that type of hate first hand. Thank you for bring us such a
meaningful film. We hope it is a huge success.
<|_=00=_|>
The Express was a wonderful sports movie with lots of drama. It had a
ton of emotion and great feelings in it. Me watching the movie I felt
like a fan. This movie will make you love sports even if you don't. It
was inspirational in so many ways. The whole movie keeps you
entertained and on the edge of your seat at the end. Each one of the
football games were fun and exciting to watch. When their wasn't
football in the movie the director found ways to keep the movie good
and interesting. This movie had emotion. love, heart, tears, and
inspiring moments. Their are many different scenes in this movie that
are sad to watch and upsetting for the viewers. The thing that makes it
so upsetting for us to watch is the thing they do to blacks in this
movie. I think that everyone should see this movie just to see how life
was. The life the blacks lived in this movie wasn't good. I think this
movie will teach people to respect everyone no matter who it is. This
movie was one of the best movies of the year. It was the best sports
movie of the year and ever. It will honestly have you on your feet. It
was such a great movie and was so inspiring and should be seen by
everyone. It was great for kids, teens, adults, and even grandparents.
It was so exciting and fun to watch all around. Their weren't any flaws
pretty much. The movie has so many different messages that were great.
The thing that is mostly the best part of the movie is that Ernie is
the most unselfish person on and off the field in this movie. He shows
everyone how to be a better person. The coach played by Dennis Quaid
did a great job and was a good person and coach as well. The movie was
based on a true story also. Overall this is one feel good movie. It is
the must see sports movie. Go see it and have a fun time cheering and
clapping.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very well acted movie. Dennis Quaid did a great job of
playing the coach and Rob Brown was the perfect choice for Ernie Davis.
The ratings this movie has received so far are not in line with the
quality of this film. This movie in no way presented a political point
of view. The only thing political was what happened in real life. This
was the recognition given to Ernie by the president of the time. (which
was JFK) Other than this movie was more inspirational. It showed the
character of Ernie Davis and the faith he had in his own abilities, his
coach, family and his God. Ernie Davis has reshaped College sports. Due
to his ability to cope with hatred and racism in a positive way. The
game of college sports has vastly become more professional. The talent
of teams today is far greater than the past. Ernie opened the door foe
all races in sports; thus increasing the abilities of the teams. I
highly recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the non-fiction book Ernie Davis: The Elmira Express, by
Robert C. Gallagher, The Express: The Ernie Davis story seems to lose
itself in it's own title. The name change signifies a young culture and
generation completely unaware of the legend of Ernie Davis. Wait a
second... there's a good title.

Off the bat, I have to credit Rob Brown. At 16 years old this kid was
squaring off impressive verbiage with Sean Connery and held his own.
Now, his confidence shines even more. As Davis, Brown emotes without
saying a word and strides through a script that tries but sheds little
light into Davis's mind.

Coach - er, Dennis Quaid disappears into the father role, replacing
Davis's grandfather Pops (Charles Dutton) and polarizing every scene.

God, I wish they had more for Clancy Brown to do. I mean, come on -
it's Clancy Freakin Brown.

So anyway, with most sports films, we get the basic hero plot wrapped
around big game action scenes and the occasional fistfight. By the
third act, the protagonists/ pioneers have broken through barriers,
stumbled through plot twists and plot holes like a paint by numbers
series and after winning the big game, celebrate - with hands high,
flashing Colgate smiles and cheer into the epilogue.

The Express follows the same formula until one remembers the nose
bleeds. Wait a sec, it happens more than once? Yeah. That a loose plot?
Not really. That was the relationship between Davis and Jim Brown or
Davis and his girlfriend. What's her name? Sarah. There's just not
enough depth invested into these relationships. So anyway, the nose
bleeds are symptoms of acute monocytic leukemia. The hints are there
like after-school special bookends and we, like Davis, have no clue
what's happening. We want to dismiss it and move on - just like he
does. That's the inspiration in this film. And it feels good.

Overall, this is a film for the masses. It's strength is the push of a
young man who was unaware of his own limitations in any event. Be it
secure confidence or misguided pride, without that awareness - Davis
could proceed and achieve to no end. The filmmakers stretch what they
have to cover what they don't. All the facts are here. The history is
too. But I wanted more. I wanted to see his struggle with the Big L -
the unseen antagonist we waited for. Arrogant teammates, West Virginia
racists, or even the slew of em in Texas (before the seemingly rushed
ending) are nothing comparable. We move past it, onto the big night in
Cleveland. But, that might be the writer's intention.

I didn't have any sense about this film other than football. I had
heard of Ernie Davis however I couldn't recall any significant details
of his life to save my own. The details of Jim Brown and the Heisman
Trophy are lost on non football fans. Even the fact that Davis led
Syracuse to it's first national championship becomes a mute point. This
film is about a man... not a football star.

Brown and Quaid shoulder this film. The performances are so strong and
touching... how Davis infects his weary eyed coach with his wisdom is a
joy. The whole student teaching the master clich√© is good. Oh yeah,
there was this whole white/ black racial politic thing and everything
(and anything) racist hits the front burners. Still, the meat of what
drove Davis is key here. What caused this man to tick? What kept him
focused and determined? When did he forget he was black? 

I have to big up Mark Isham's tender, yet powerful score. There were
cues in this film that bring tears to one's eyes. Other good notes are
any scenes with the wonderful, fresh faced Nicole Behaire as Davis's
wife Sarah and Darrin Henson as a firm, but less formidable looking Jim
Brown and again... Clancy Brown.

Ernie Davis's story is remarkable to discover. The Express does it's
best to give us the stuff of this young man's legend. Even through the
gloss and shine of Hollywood's spin... it just feels good.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Express', though based on Ernie Davis's life, is given a very
Hollywood treatment. The story is uplifting and even inspiring to some,
especially how Davis chooses to fight racism, not with violence, but
with American football. Yet, the film itself is sugarcoated and has the
deja-vu feel. For example, it is easy to predict which team will win
(as is the case with most sports film). However, the last 20 minutes
were handled well. Those scenes could have easily been melodramatic but
the director chooses to play it down here. The background score is very
intrusive at times. I thought the issue of racism was well tackled.
This isn't 'just another movie about racism' because the conflicts are
well depicted and dealt with (like one would think it would be in the
50s). Dennis Quaid definitely moves a step forward from his usual
average acting. It's impressive to see him get under the skin of the
character rather than play the usual formula. Rob Brown does a fine job
and holds his own. Overall, 'The Express' tells an important story
about a man who made a difference in American history even though his
name is not known to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
When studios turn back the clock in movies, they expose the excessive
baggage which accompanied our bigoted and ignorant past. Audiences
living in the present decade can observe all of the social ills of
those bygone eras. Social problems in America have all but been buried,
yet irritatingly they surface when our society is reminded not every
American has learned the lessons of the past. Thus it is with this
superior movie called " The Express." The great Ernie Davis is played
by Rob Brown as an adult and Justin Martin in his youth. Both actors do
a incredible job. Dennis Quaid plays Ben Schwartzwalder, the
inspirational coach who does an exceptional job. The icon Jim Brown is
played by Darren Henson and Charles Dutton is William Davis Sr.
Although the film traces the life of Ernie Davis, it only highlights
the major events, tragedies and triumphs of the all star player at
Saracues University. The movie is inspirational on many levels and
touches the viewer with the most dramatic obstacles such as racism and
segregation. Indeed a personal meeting with the late great John F.
Kennedy is sure to evoke positive memories. Throughout the entire movie
one is offered a blunt eye-view of our most brutal social affliction
and one can only hope our great nation will one day make it obsolete.
Easilly recommended to all audiences. ****
<|_=00=_|>
Ernie Davis whom I remember as a kid as the most promising college
football player of his time made quite the impact on the world of
sports back in the day. But is impact during the Civil Rights era in
which he played is equally compelling a story. Both are united here in
a wonderful sports film, The Express with young Rob Brown playing Ernie
Davis. 

Brown plays Davis well as the idealistic young kid who takes as his
ideal Jackie Robinson and the significance he had breaking the color
line in professional baseball. Black people were already playing
professional football at this time also, but the sport was not what it
is today or in fact would shortly become starting in the middle Fifties
when Davis was in college ball at the University of Syracuse.

A guy who had a lot to do with that was Ernie Davis's predecessor at
the University of Syracuse Jim Brown as played by Darrin DeWitt Henson.
Brown's place among professional football immortals is quite assured
and he came to the Cleveland Browns with the reputation from college he
more than lived up to. 

In fact it's Brown that Coach Ben Schwartzwalder uses to recruit Davis
to the Orangemen of Syracuse. Dennis Quaid plays the coach and he gives
one of his best performances in his career. In fact it's right in line
with another football film Any Given Sunday where he plays an aging
quarterback with heart and guts, but losing a step or two in the field. 

The film is about Quaid almost as much as about Rob Brown. The coach
learns that he's living in extraordinary times for America, most
extraordinary for black America. His players are not separate and apart
from the social changes going on, they and the game cannot be kept in a
vacuum. Proof of that comes when the Orangemen of Syracuse go south to
play West Virginia and later the University of Texas in the Cotton Bowl
which was more of a war than an athletic contest.

Ernie Davis beat out Jim Brown in two special categories. He was the
first black man to win the Heisman Trophy for Best College Football
player and probably earned it by dint of the fact that he unlike Brown
led Syracuse to a national championship. It was a fact the Heisman
Committee could not ignore.

The football sequences as in Any Given Sunday are done incredibly well,
choreographed would not be a bad word to describe them. Davis did in
fact say he would let his field exploits do his talking and they spoke
loud and clear.

I hope some Oscar nominations are in the future for both Quaid and
Brown. The Express will go down in history as one of the best sports
films ever done and it goes along way towards keeping the story of
Ernie Davis alive for generations to come.
<|_=00=_|>
I grew up following Syracuse sports. I remember Ben Schwartzwalder
being interviewed on Sunday mornings on channel 3 in Syracuse.

The film was a disappointment for me.

Have the director or cinematographer actually ever played football? The
football scenes were very contrived and not realistic. As football
movies go, The Express looks like girls' field hockey.

The writing was corny. This story needed more of an edge, dealing with
racial tensions and sports glory. It comes off as a made-for-TV movie
of the week.

Dennis Quaid, although one of my favorite actors, is miscast. Ben was a
hard-nosed guy, Dennis is just can't pull off the scowl.

As much as I thought I would like this film, that's how much I dislike
it. By the way, how did the film end? I left early.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was not about Ernie Davis,this film was about Jim Brown.
Using Mr. Brown as a source on this film was a mistake. The film save
for a few notable scenes is mostly Hollywood fabrication. I pity Dennis
Quaid ever going back home to Texas after his participation in this
film! True facts of racism are one thing but to fabricate them for
Hollywood are even worse. Read the true stories of Ernie Davis and you
will see a much different person than the one depicted in this film.
Ernie Davis described by teammates and fellow students paint a much
different one than the one Jim Brown made up!Perhaps the directors
should have just made a film about Jim Brown and his experiences with
racism which he truly endured. There was none of the trash throwing,
racism laced hate speech, and other racist events portrayed at West
Virgina. There was a brawl at the Cotton Bowl in 1960 and Syracuse was
asked to leave the after game awards ceremony but they went to the
Dallas Athletic Club and had a great time according to players. Why
does Hollywood always have to embellish the truth? If this movie had
been about the true Ernie Davis it could have been a very nice piece of
college football history! All of the living teammates agree this film
was not the history or the Ernie Davis they remember! I believe them
and the facts not this movie!
