
This movie blew me away - I have only seen two episodes of the show,
never saw the first movie, but went to a pre-screening where Johnny
Knoxville himself introduced the movie, telling us to 'turn off our
sense of moral judgment for an hour and a half.' He was right. As a
movie, this would probably rate a 2, given it has zero plot, no
structure besides randomness, and very little production value.
However, that isn't the point. Everyone in our theatre was laughing and
gasping the whole way through - not only were some of the stunts
creative (see trailer if you need to know but they hid some of the best
(or worst depending on how you want to look at it)), but some of the
stuff they did took us completely by surprise. These guys do some stuff
that won't make it into your newspaper reviews (and probably can't even
be published here), involving lots of things below the belt. However,
almost 3/4 of the stunts are fantastically hysterical (even if morally
condemnable, but remember Knoxville's statement), and if you are in the
right mindset this movie is hysterical to watch. Only about 20 minutes
of this movie could have actually been shown on TV, so consider
yourself warned of what you're getting into - some stuff is disgusting,
but instead of being repulsed by it you end up laughing at the sheer
stupidity of it all. As a person who thought Jackass the TV show was an
over-hyped fad with only a few funny sketches and lots of unnecessary
pain, the amount of fun I had at this movie has made me realize that
having no boundaries is the best environment for these guys to work in.
It's a lot of fun and should be a great comedic fix until the Borat
movie comes out. With this movie, you may think you know what you're
getting, but these guys are a few steps ahead of you - I guarantee
you'll be surprised by the 3rd sketch. So enjoy, and don't worry: you
won't want to perform almost any of their stuff at home.
<|_=00=_|>
The sequel is exactly what you will expect it to be. And it is good
enough that everyone who would have wanted to watch this should leave
it happy.

This is not a movie that will win an Academy award. But it does take
what made the Jackass TV show and original movie a success, and it
turns it up a notch. It is funnier, more brutal, and more disgusting
than the original. And I loved every minute of it.

The original had a few notorious stunts, and there is at least one
stunt that this movie will be remembered for. You will wince, cringe,
look away, and laugh very, very hard.

In any event, you probably do not need to read this review, or any
others, to know if you will like this movie, unless you have never
heard of Jackass.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I begin? I sat down ready to laugh a bit and I was blown away!
This movie is just perfect, it's indescribable. Jackass Number Two in
all honesty was grosser, more obscene, funnier and more entertaining
than the first. This was just what I needed tonight.

There are so many scenes in this movie that will make you say "Oh My!
No Way!" or "Ouch!". Perfectly mastered and set up, each event and
scene were coordinated way before and therefore made it even more
perfect. I loved every minute of it! I'm just going to say that there
was even a scene where it was necessary to censor particular footage in
order to prevent an NC-17 rating! It was so hilarious that they had to
put it in anyway! Amazingly good.

9/10. Incredibly funny, Do Not Miss Out!
<|_=00=_|>
Yes. Bam cried a couple times and so did Englund. And most probably you
will too. The whole cast is back in action and Knoxville has stepped up
to become the true leader of this gang of messed-up retards (I mean
this in the best possible way). I first thought, maybe Bam or Steve-O
were the main go-to guys....nope, the main man is now Johnny. Don't get
me wrong, everybody, and I mean everybody is great in this flick! Right
from the get-go you're laughing, and believe you me, don't plan on
resting that smile of yours. I personally think the movie definitely
has better moments than the first. You know when you go into a theater,
and you kind of don't want to have high expectations for it.....well,
this movie blows all expectations away. If you love Jackass, you can go
into this with gigantic expectations. No matter what you'll laugh your
ass off. If you're not laughing, the reason is most likely someone has
a gun in your face telling you if you laugh you die or maybe you are
embarrassed about the sound of your laugh or the highest probability is
that you were eating Jack Sh!t for breakfast and Jack left town. All I
have to say is, prepare yourself to have a sore face after the movie.
:)
<|_=00=_|>
This film tops the previous incarnation by a mile, taking everything to
the next level. As always the JackAss guys are purely unbelievable, and
I personally laughed harder in that theatre than I have in a long time.
Like the first JackAss, this isn't so much a movie as an eighty minute
long string of stunts and pranks. It is pure circus entertainment taken
to the highest level. Essentially these guys are clowns, debasing
themselves for the amusement of others. And its great. The shenanigans
are so low, outrageous, and often disgusting that they transcend into a
higher form of entertainment.

You can't rate this along other movies, its in a class of its own. And
it shines. Go and enjoy it for the pure spectacle that it is.
<|_=00=_|>
It's what you expect. It induces laughter, cringing, and dry-heaving,
not necessarily in that order. It's over-the-top. You will see things
that you may never be able to erase from your mind's eye. " Jackass
Number Two" is better than the first; the actors definitely took more
risks while filming this movie. There are many stunts which could have
killed the actors, especially Johnny Knoxville. The treatment of
animals was suspect, but other than that, the movie achieved what is
was made to achieve. If you like the preview, see the movie. If you
don't, steer clear! 

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Knoxville has gone insane.

In the first Jackass he delighted in practical jokes more so than the
physical stuff  his opening car rental gag and the later bit involving
an air horn on a golf course were more akin to some type of extreme
Candid Camera  but in Jackass: Number Two he's really off his rocker.

Beginning with a sequence where he is chased through a living room by a
bull, or later when he rides a rocket (a stunt which almost cost him
his life due to an unexpected explosion from the side of the rocket),
and especially when he stands willfully in front of a defense mechanism
and takes a spray of pellets to the stomach, Knoxville is a madman. In
the first film Bam Margera and Steve-O  notorious party animals  were
the daring ones, but you know it's pretty bad when you see Knoxville
enticing them to do a stunt.

This is essentially a series of stunts pulled off by guys consumed by
testosterone, constantly trying to one-up each other. It will
eventually end in death for one of the cast members  in Jackass 2
Steve-O nearly loses a leg to a shark, Knoxville (as aforementioned) is
nearly impaled with an explosion from a rocket, and so on and so forth.
Jackass 3 has already been confirmed owing to the success of 2, and
frankly I can't imagine any stunt out-performing the bull run in the
opening scene of this film  that's incredible footage. It's almost
unbelievable, and I wondered whether it had been faked, but apparently
it was 100% genuine. (Which is actually kind of frightening.) And in
terms of extremes Jackass 2 far outdoes its predecessor  it also feels
more cinematic than the first film, with less of the cheesy titles
preceding stunts that were made famous on the original MTV television
show.

Unfortunately, the boys were given too much freedom here, and a good
number of the gags are simply lame exercises in crudity  I can enjoy
the occasional poop gag, but watching a man relieve himself on a
miniature toilet, or see Steve-O take beer up the butt (yes, honestly),
gets grating after a while. Even the frat boys in the screening I
attended  who were enthusiastic when Wee Man took a playing card up
the rear and got zapped by a rigged chair  were disgusted by some of
the scenes in this film. It's not a matter of getting away with as much
as possible  it's a matter of saying, "Is this even entertaining or
funny?" Many times, sadly, it really isn't.

But for every lame stunt involving fecal matter and farting on people's
faces, there are some brilliant hidden-camera bits. Wacky director
Spike Jonze ("Adaptation") dresses up as an old woman and hits the
streets naked, with sagging breasts and no shame. And my personal
favorite skit involved Knoxville as an irresponsible old man, out for
lunch with his grandson, letting him drink alcohol and smoke and swear
and insult people. That's classic comedy taken to new extremes with the
liberties of an R-rating. It's a shame they had to ruin all the great
stuff  including a final segment involving an elaborate terrorist
prank  with poop jokes along the way.

Still, there's enough sheer spirit and craziness in this film to merit
a viewing, and it's really taken the concept of extremity in cinema to
new heights.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got out of an advance screening, and wow was this movie hilarious.
Possibly better than the first one, but at least its equal. If you
don't like jackass, or really unnecessary amounts of male nudity(way
more than in the first) then stay far, far away. But if you dig the
whole Jackass thing, then this movie will not disappoint. Toro Totter
is the greatest invention ever. OK. so my review wasn't long enough...
All else i have to say is poor, poor Dunn, they really kick the crap
out of him in this. So if you enjoy masochistic humor, and prolific
male nudity, and by far the most disgusting female nudity ever (John
Waters is involved, need i say more?) then this movie will keep you in
stitches for it entirety. I never stopped laughing, and actually came
out drenched in sweat.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Knoxville and the boys of Jackass go over the top for "Jackass
Number Two." At a press screening, the laughter was so loud and raucous
it was hard to hear all the dialog. The stunts are over the top and the
pranks are funnier and more outrageous than ever before.

All of the guys put their limbs on the line to make a great film, and
they succeeded. If you like this genre, you'll love this film. If not,
don't bother.

Some of the funniest bits are the pranks the guys play on themselves,
and they have no regard for what happens to them. They'll do anything
to make a stunt work. 

Many critics panned Johnny Knoxville for a less active role in the
first film, but not to worry, he is front and center in Number Two, and
they have enough footage in the can to be half way through a Number
Threee.

This is a must see for fans of this type of humor.

Chris Sansone, Entertainment Editor, Fort Bend Herald
<|_=00=_|>
Like the first one,the team of JACKASS are back to try to kill
themselves with whatever manner they see fit.Either,it's fitting
yourself in a tractor tyre and rolling down a slope.Or getting yourself
deliberately smashed by a bull.Or something even worse.

The first one was crazy,and that's how you can describe it.It was also
really hard laughing film.But this one is completely nuts.It's got even
more dangerous stunts,and even harder laughs.So,I think watching dumb
idiots getting themselves killed is gonna be the funniest thing this
week.

So,before BORAT comes out,I shall laugh my A** out.
