
I thought this movie was going to be just AWFUL. However I was
mistaken, it was actually pretty good. The acting, as I would've
expected was mediocre, but no one in the cast was destined to shine in
this film. I also had a good time watching the film, I was really happy
how the Piranhas looked. Don't go in expecting a masterpiece like
Citizen Kane or Schindler's List, cause you'll definitely be
disappointed, but with a movie title like this, who would? Just go in
expecting some laughter and have some fun with it. Also there's a lot
of nudity and gore, so I don't advice parents to take your kids in
theater to watch this film. Piranha 3-D lived up to its title,
featuring Killer Piranhas with 3-D. It isn't in any way perfect, but
then again, it doesn't need to be.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Splatter flicks of the 1970s and 80s tend to have a real fun factor to
them, as opposed to darker gore films like the 'Saw' franchise. Once in
a while a group of filmmakers will attempt to homage those films, some
succeeding and others not. Peter Jackson blew us away with his 'Dead
Alive,' which piles on the blood, guts, and goo to the point of being
hysterical. There have been some pretty graphic Horror films since, but
who knew that the remake of the 1978 Joe Dante cult classic would rival
Jackson's over-the-top gorefest? We're not talking about great art here
people, but pure and simple trashy Horror fun like we haven't seen on
the big screen in some time.

Pros: The cast does it's best with the minimal material they have. Lots
of gorgeous underwater and above water photography. Apart from one
section of the film, the pace just zips along. Fantastic special and
visual effects. Ample amounts of blood and gore. Also some great gore
gags. Made with a real sense of fun. Occasionally pretty funny. The
massacre sequence is actually pretty terrifying and stomach churning.

Cons: With a movie like this you don't expect brilliant writing, but it
still could have been better. Plot is almost non-existent. There's a
section of the film which includes divers going into an underwater
cavern and the filming of a "Girls Gone Wild" style video above that
really drags. Goes by so fast and is so short that there's no room for
any real tension, which would have given the film some extra oomph.

Final thoughts: This film seems to have come at the right time. Not a
bad way to end the summer. Sure it's all pretty mindless, maybe too
much so, but who doesn't enjoy a good 90 minutes of pure bloody goofy
fun now and again? 

My rating: 3.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
Films rarely deliver on the promises of their trailers. Even their
synopses can indicate a promise of something the final film has a
problem making truly happen. Some movies come close, others fail
miserably, and others deliver a different experience entirely. Piranha
3D is the rare film the delivers exactly what the trailers, synopses
and every ounce of marketing promises  buckets of blood, campy humour
and boobs  lots and lots of boobs.

The plot, or what little semblance there is, revolves around the small
town of Lake Victoria, which explodes with activity every Spring Break.
An earthquake tremor shatters the lake's floor, and lets loose hundreds
of prehistoric piranha. And as the trailer suggests, not even local
Sheriff Julie Forester (Elisabeth Shue) can stop the mayhem in store
for the unlucky college students and residents who venture into the
water.

Despite a rather threadbare plot, Piranha 3D survives on an alternating
scale of maniacal destruction and sheer glee. It is clear from the
opening moments of the film that Alexandre Aja is having loads of fun
creating this throwback monster movie. And in a year where just about
everything seems like a nostalgic reference to films from other decades
(specifically the 1980s), Piranha 3D fits right in. It makes no
argument about the type of film it is at any point. It knows it is not
going to be the next Schindler's List, and it knows it has no chance of
even remotely being a "good movie". What it strives for, especially if
you are the right audience for it, is to be the funnest film of the
summer. After all, this is a movie that makes a joke about a severed
CGI penis.

The film is fun for the sheer fact that Aja does not seem to care about
the line between good and bad taste. The aforementioned severed penis
aside, there are quite literally hundreds of people who are murdered by
these prehistoric killers by the time the film reaches its credits. And
Aja just seems to revel in the destruction he creates at every turn. I
lost count of how many people perished in one grisly attack near the
beach that makes Jaws look about as menacing as Bambi. And somehow, the
attacks even vary at how successful they are, and just what gets
attacked. Various body parts are ripped out and eaten in detail, and
many people end up more mangled than the trailers suggest. Aja has a
go-for-broke style that we rarely get a chance to see in modern horror,
and pushes the limits of what he can show at any given moment. I have
heard there were cuts made to the film, but as it is, I cannot even
fathom what could have possibly been chopped out in comparison to what
they left in.

But the buckets of blood are only the beginning. This is also a film
that revels in having bare breasts appear almost every five minutes.
Hell, there is an entire five minute underwater ballet-like scene that
borders on soft porn. But again, it does not seem like Aja cares. He
just wants to revel in how much he can possibly get away with, full
frontal nudity and all. It almost feels exploitative at times with just
how much these female actresses show off, specifically Kelly Brook and
Riley Steele (who is just one of a handful of porn stars who appear in
the film). Aja knows his audience, knows his genre, and knows the films
that inspired it. It almost comes off like he wanted to ensure he had
enough bare breasts so he knew he did not do a disservice to all of
those expecting gratuitous amounts of nudity.

The film's ultimate success comes from its humour though. With just how
ridiculous the film quickly becomes, it never loses sight of its tone
and lack of seriousness. It may get extraordinarily gruesome, but it is
never serious or horrific enough that you will have trouble laughing at
what is going on. The campy one-liners are all very effective, as is
the film's nostalgic sensibilities. Even better are the cast members
who provide them: Christopher Lloyd as an aquarium owner two steps
short of Doc Brown; Jerry O'Connell as a coked out porn producer; Ving
Rhames as a bad ass deputy; Eli Roth as the host of a wet t-shirt
contest. Everyone brings their A-game, and maintain their deadpan
humour throughout. They all look to be having just as much of a blast
as Aja is.

But there are issues with the film. For one, some of the special
effects are lacking. The explicit shots showing the piranha destroying
their victims all seem to look awful, as do the piranhas themselves (3D
effects do nothing but make them look even worse). The makeup effects
are working at full throttle in every single case, but the effects of
how these people are being ripped limb from limb seems to have not been
too much of a concern for anyone. I realize the campy style of the
film, but its style does not excuse its shoddy special effects. The
character development is also a little stilted, much like the
performance of main star Steven R. McQueen. Had Aja sacrificed the
thirty to forty minutes of "development" and just added more mayhem,
this would not be nearly as much of an issue. But looking at the movie
and its style, I doubt Aja was going for perfection here.

Granted you are the audience for buckets of blood and gratuitous
amounts of nudity, Piranha 3D delivers on all counts. It has some
problems and is far from a great movie, but its campy and nostalgic
style more than forgives any issue. The film exists solely to be
gleefully destructive. And as long as you realize that going in, you
will not be disappointed.

7.5/10.

(This review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen some bad "horror" movies recently. This is #1 on that list!
Whoever thought of this idea really is a genius - Girls gone wild with
a few CGI fish thrown in. A majority of guys going for this movie will
recommend it to other guys for that one reason...oh and Kelly Brooke!
But that is not even a consolation prize. The fish were added as an
after thought. The main emphasis of the movie was spring break and the
underwater scene of Kelly B and that other woman. I can't believe I got
sucked in by the trailer and the title!!!!! I went and saw this movie
in the hall, to my eternal regret. I hope anyone who hasn't seen it yet
and reads my words will heed them. Don't waste your money on this
"movie"!!
<|_=00=_|>
An underwater tremor unleashes thousands of hungry Piranha that have
thought to have been extinct for millions of years. Bad timing, because
it's Spring Break. 

Piranha was, what some people called, a rip off of Jaws. Another person
wanting a piece of the pie. It went on to have a sequel, to be directed
by the now famous James Cameron and it seems that it is time for a
remake, in 3D no less. Do we need a remake? Probably not, but the film
is fun and excessively violent, which makes for a good time for those
looking for b- movie horror goodness. Piranha delivers on the levels it
aims for, take that as you want to.

Alexandre Aja directs this film, let's just forget he did Mirrors okay?
He gets the bloody mess off to an interesting start by having Richard
Dreyfuss in the film. A nod to Jaws no doubt, but one can only assume
that he had him in here to say that this film is either a: More scarier
or B: More dangerous. I'd go with the latter because the film isn't
scary. What's more dangerous though? One shark, or thousands of
Piranhas? You pick.

So it's Spring Break, so the fish have hundreds of young drunk
teenagers to eat, and boy do they eat. The film doesn't shy away from
the bloody truth. Piranha's can strip a cow to it's bones in minutes,
these guys are more aggressive. They've been feeding off each other for
millions of years and now they have a variety of meat to pick from.
Yummy. So people die in bloody, over the top, funny ways. The film is
one for the people who cheer when someone has their legs torn off. If
that's not you, you might want to stay away from this one. 

Also, if you're not a fan of naked women, you might want to stay away
from this one. This film is full of naked women, left right and centre.
There is even an underwater naked swimming dance sequence set to opera
music. It's weird and funny at the same time because it comes out of
nowhere. 

The film could have used more of it's cast. We have Richard Dreyfuss,
Ving Rhames, Christopher Lloyd and Eli Roth. All of them are underused.
Rhames, I thought was going to have a more hero type role, he doesn't.
Roth has a total of maybe two scenes as does Lloyd. Dreyfuss only shows
up at the beginning of the film. Once again, an interesting cast that
is not put to good use. The film decides to stick with the blood and
boobs. 

The film is in 3D. I expected to have more fun with it than I did.
Although I did enjoy it more than other 3D films I've seen. It has a
more gimmicky feel to it and it actually fits with the film. Seeing
bits of Piranha fly up at you is fun. Boobs in 3D, fish in 3D but the
things that were used the most were the underwater coral reefs. 

The theatre lost power near the end, so the last 3 or so minutes of the
film we saw with no sound, but I could tell what was going to happen,
even with the lack of audio. I'm not letting that affect my review for
the film, but I can sense that the film was going to go for one of
those jump-scare-abrupt endings. 

Piranha 3D is a hoot, for those who know what they are getting into. In
my theatre there were children, this is NOT A KIDS MOVIE!!!! This is
more bloody and violent than any SAW film. Piranha is full of cheesy
moments, and it works.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting 3D babes and dumb "Jaws" type action but what they
delivered was repulsive crap of the lowest order. How on earth did they
get that cast to go anywhere near this disgusting and dumb mess??? Did
Elizabeth Shue need money that badly? I've rarely seen bigger names
involved with something this awful. Who the hell enjoys seeing woman
getting graphically butchered in every way possible??? They graphically
present everything ranging from flesh being peeled to the bone to women
getting cut in half to a face literally being pulled off by yanking on
a ponytail and all in bad 3D. Although, the ultra low point may have
been showing a fish feeding on a severed penis and then spitting it out
all chewed up at the screen. Come to think of it, that very well may be
the low point in all of cinematic history.
<|_=00=_|>
An earthquake unleashes a bunch of prehistoric piranha fish into a
lake. This happens just as spring break is happening and tons of
brainless kids are partying in that lake! Sheriff Julie Forester
(Elisabeth Shue), deputy Fell (Ving Rhames) and others try to stop them
before they kill all the kids (who you seriously want dead). Also
Julie's son Jake (Steven R McQueen) is in a sinking boat in the very
same lake WITH his younger brother and sister.

PLENTY OF SPOILERS AHEAD!!!! OK--the original "Piranha" wasn't that
good but THIS is even worse!!! For starters there's WAY too much female
nudity. Yes--female nudity is expected in all horror films now and I
can accept it...but this goes overboard! There's a wet T-shirt contest
which offers no other point than to see women's breasts in 3-D. And
there's a LLLLOOOOONNNNNGGGG skinny dipping session between two women
(set to classical music no less!) which has them kissing and making
out. And women's breasts and butts are constantly being shown on
screen. Ummmmmmmm--this is a HORROR film right? If I want to see
lesbian sex scenes I'll order it online! To make it worse Eli Roth (a
lousy director and a sexist jerk) is shown in the wet T-shirt contest
spraying down the women! He is killed in a very gory way but that
didn't satisfy me. 

Acting is all over the place. Shue is great despite having nothing to
work with. Rhames appears drugged (no surprise there). McQueen is no
more than OK. Adam Scott is very good in his small role as Novak. And
Richard Dreyfuss does an amusing bit at the beginning (Remember
"Jaws"?) But then we get Jerry O'Connell as a sleazy porno director and
Christopher Lloyd as a scientist. They both seem to be trying to show
who can overact the most! O'Connell is VERY annoying in his role--you
want him dead FAST! Lloyd was SO over the top that my audience was
laughing out loud at his performance! Really--just beyond belief.

On the up side--Shue was great (as I said before); there was a cute
reference to the John Sayles scripted film "Alligator" (he also wrote
the script for the original "Pianha"); the special effects were
excellent; the underwater scenes were beautiful and the big attack
sequence was brutal, bloody and long (LOTS of blood, gore and dead
bodies). Then they gotta ruin it with a stupid "it's not over" ending.

I HATED this. I also find it disturbing that there's an audience out
there for films that mix graphic violence and explicit female nudity.
Really--mixing those is ENTERTAINING???? A 1.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes There is loads of Gore yes there is loads of nudity...however thats
about all there is to this steaming pile of crap.. No Story no good
script no Character Development whatsoever also has one of the lame-est
ending i have ever seen...This movie plays off as a big budget girls
gone wild episode with some killer pirhanas thrown in almost as an
afterthought...while some of the gore affects were nice and nasty
looking..a lot of the Cgi stuff was utter crap..Even the so called 3d
wasn't in 3d and it shows just like Clash of the Titans..There is a few
good points to the film Elizabeth Shue who did a good job and the
Richard Dryfuss Cameo was Clever..however other then that this movie
sucks..If they had spent more time working on a good script and giving
us Characters that were worth a damn and less time or even no time on
nudity and gore the movie would have probably been better...Thank god
for the Original being on DVD because i can go and watch that and see
what a good film is all about...Again Gore and nudity do not make a
movie
<|_=00=_|>
To paraphrase Freud, "there are times when a piece of detritus is just
a piece of detritus." Similarly, there are times when a CGI weiner is
just a CGI weiner. And on that same note, there are times when a
heavily hyped 3D horror film manages to be so much less than the low
standard it sets for itself. By the end of its 88 (mercifully fleeting)
minutes, "Piranha 3D" had me wondering if a camera crew was going to
enter the theater, revealing that what I had just watched was a
practical joke before running the ACTUAL film.

Needless to say, that didn't happen.

Which means that yes, "Piranha 3D" really IS that bad.

Alexandre Aja, the French wunderkind behind the bloody psychothriller
"High Tension," the mercilessly brutal remake of "The Hills Have Eyes,"
and that iffy movie about killer mirrors, has spent the better part of
a year heralding his latest venture, an update of the Roger
Corman-produced, Joe Dante-directed "Piranha" (itself a rip-off of
"Jaws"). The concept seemed like a lock: the titular creatures with the
razor-sharp teeth and unquenchable thirst for blood go ballistic on a
couple dozen hardbodies during spring break; and to sweeten the deal
(for those who prefer gore and boobies in their lap), the project would
utilize 3D, the current industry standard for inflated ticket prices
and deflated expectations.

How could this possibly fail? The problems with "Piranha 3D"
(subsequently making it an even more frustrating picture) are so
numerous that a college film course could be devoted solely to picking
apart its flaws. The most glaring is the general lack of development
all around: not just the characterizations (which are almost
appallingly non-existent), but the plot (Christopher Lloyd is trotted
out for a few lines of unconvincing exposition), the effects (the
piranha exist in two forms: obvious CG close-up and murky, dark mass),
the editing (the spring-break bloodbath is an incoherent mess of torn
flesh shot largely in close-up), and the 3D itself (for a film that
began with the notion of being an immersive experience, its use of the
medium is actually less impressive than it was in "Friday the 13th Part
3," a film that's nearly 30 years old). In Henry Selick's "Coraline,"
the 3D effect was used to enhance elements of character and story that
ultimately made the film an engaging trip into another world. In
"Piranha," the effect (when it makes a rare, underwhelming appearance)
is an obvious cash grab that feels like outright thievery.

In 2010, I thought the horror genre could see no greater low than the
misbegotten remake of "A Nightmare on Elm Street." How wrong I was.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolute dreck, which mysteriously managed to gain a myriad of critical
accolades while rising to a far from impressive number 8 at the US box
office. It has been a long time since we have gotten a fun
Jaws-inspired rip-off, this does not qualify. The film is a wart on the
butt of the original Jaws and fails to even come within miles of Jaws 2
or the original Piranha, both of which managed to be fun and
suspenseful. An earthquake opens up a fissure to an underground cave
housing deadly prehistoric piranha just shy of a Spring Break
extravaganza. I love good trash or guilty pleasures and Piranha 3-D
would certainly seem to fall within those parameters. It is completely
up front about being trash, which I respect, but it also arrives acting
like it is too-cool-for-the-room. In other words, it makes the mistake
of believing in advance that it is great watchable trash...it is
mistaken. Instead of crafting something fun and suspenseful from the
set-up, director Aja has instead vomited forth a film so brutally
repellent and disgusting as to defy belief. After a while, the gore
literally ceases to have any impact. Aja has little interest in the
characters populating his landscape of blood and fails to even make
them "types" that anyone can be concerned about before they meet their
gruesome fates. We have no concern for Sheriff Elisabeth Shue,
scientist Adam Scott or any vested interest in whether Shue's three
offspring will survive the onslaught. The visual effects range from
adequate to clumsy, and the underwater 3-D effects are murky - proof
positive that the film was converted rather than filmed expressly for
3-D. If character development is non-existent than suspense/excitement
follows it down the same hole. The dialog consists of either screaming,
a scientist-type pontificating a wild theory, or some variation of
"Let's get out of here" or "Look out". Then again, it only has to
function as little more than a bridging device between the next gore
scene or the next boob shot. The film is awash in a ocean of boobs.
There are bare breasts to right, to the left and storming the camera at
every opportunity. Apparently, filmmakers forgot that their target
audience would probably be dragging their girlfriends to this epic, so
male skin is at a minimum. The film's "highlight" or nadir, depending
on your view, is a roughly 10-minute orgy of violence with various
partiers being devoured, skewered, ground up in propellers, torn apart,
beheaded, etc., preferably women who somehow manage to lose their tops
prior to being disemboweled. The film's idea of comedy is having Jerry
O'Connell as a Girls Gone Wild-type sleaze merchant who gets his
privates gnawed off on camera - oh the hilarity! The acting is not
terrible. Perhaps Steven R. McQueen will have the luck of his
grandfather after The Blob and go on to something better. Pity poor
Shue, Richard Dreyfuss, Ving Rhames, Christopher Lloyd, et al., whose
careers have apparently bottomed out to include chum like this as an
option. Kelly Brook is lovely and seems classier than the film
surrounding her, so no wonder Aja decides to destroy her physically
near the climax, but not before graphically denuding her for the
gratification of the sweaty adolescents in the audience. Then again,
this is no surprise for a film that seems to view the entire human race
as little more than bare boobs and geysers of gore. A truly
disheartening experience and indefensible on any level.
