
I just saw the premiere screening of "Dave Chappelle's Block Party" at
the Toronto International Film Festival. The film was introduced by
director Michel Gondry as a work in progress.

The concept is simple: In the summer of 2004, Dave Chappelle, on the
heels of the success of his unfortunately now-ill-fated TV show,
decided to throw himself a big party. So he recruited his favorite
artists (Mos Def, Talib Kweli, Dead Prez, Kanye West, Common, Erykah
Badu, Jill Scott, Cody Chesnutt, John Legend, The Roots, and a reunited
Fugees - not to mention guest shots by Big Daddy Kane and Kool Herc) to
play an old-school style block party in Brooklyn. The film chronicles
this party, intercutting riveting performance footage with backstage
antics and a documentary that chronicles Dave's efforts in organizing
the event, during which he not only tries to lure Brooklynites to the
top-secret show, but also, by issuing a series of Willy Wonka-style
golden tickets, a variety of people from all races and walks of life in
the rural Ohio town where he lives. It's a trip to watch the older
white folks from Ohio, who've never listened to a hip-hop record in
their lives, having a blast at a Block Party in the heart of Bed Stuy.

Long story short, the result is not only hands-down the best hip-hop
concert film ever made, but also a genuinely moving piece of
film-making that somehow nearly brought me to tears in parts.
Fundamentally, this is a heart-warming tribute to the power of hip-hop,
just as 'A Great Day In Harlem' was for jazz and 'Woodstock' and 'The
Last Waltz' were for rock n' roll. Though there was certainly some
roughness in the sound mix and image quality at this particular
screening, the vitality of the film was evident in spades. Not to sound
too corny, but this is a piece of work that celebrates the human spirit
- a bright light in the midst an arguably cynical cultural landscape.

The concert itself is amazing - a hip-hop show filled with the kind of
moments of spontaneity usually only seen in rock concerts. You can see
how the artists here are all friends, and they keep it loose and
ego-free, often jumping onstage with one another during the course of
the show, to marvellous effect. Some notable highlights: a
spine-tingling version of Kanye West's 'Jesus Walks', performed with a
full marching band that Dave invites from an Ohio college; the reunion
of Black Star for an almost trip-hoppy rendition of 'Definition' that I
desperately now want a recording of; Dead Prez's blistering version of
'Hip-Hop'; Erykah Badu ripping off her afro weave mid-set when the wind
becomes a bit too unforgiving; Mos Def's late-night improv version of
'Umi Says' (and when he joins Dave on drums for an impromptu comedy
set); Big Daddy Kane jumping onstage with The Roots and positively
electrifying the dumbfounded crowd; and, of course, the headlining act,
The Reunited Fugees - particularly Lauryn Hill's stirring vocals on
'Killing Me Softly'.

Anyway, enough praise. Long story short, at this screening the audience
exploded with thunderous applause as soon as the incomplete end credits
came up, and a few people were even stirred out of their seats for a
standing O - something I've never really seen at the screening of a
rough cut.

Check this out when it comes to DVD. It'll make you feel good.
<|_=00=_|>
because this was the sh*t! This is not a stand up routine, it is a
CONCERT FILM sprinkled with Dave's personal moments interacting with
folks, his love of the music and the artists. If people were expecting
"The Chapelle Show--The Movie!", either they are stupid, or did not
watch the trailer carefully. It's bigger than HIP HOP! This was also my
dream concert! It would've been perfect if D'Angelo and Me'shell
Ndegeocello were playing too. Then I'd be in heaven. It made me fall in
love with Hip Hop and good soul music all over again. Can't wait to buy
it on DVD. I just hope the DVD plays the full concert performances.

Just hearing Erykah Badu and Jill Scott rocking the chorus of "You got
me" TOGETHER is worth the admission price. An instant classic. Thank
God for Dave Chappelle!
<|_=00=_|>
Saw "Block Party" at the Toronto Film Festival as a work-in-progress.
You will laugh until your stomach hurts watching this film. Chappell's
comedy provides the balance this film needs to serve as an entertaining
reflection of the segregation and urban neglect the exists in America
today. This message exists as the subtext, and sometimes bluntly, in
the humour, interviews, and the music.

Michel Gondry did an amazing job capturing some rather beautiful
images. In one shot, it lasted for only a few seconds, a beautiful
young woman rocks out to Mos Def while perched on her boyfriend's
shoulders.

Whether or not you're a fan of the music, it's hard not to be totally
engrossed by this film. Plus Dave Chappell's in it!
<|_=00=_|>
this movie was outrageously funny due to the brilliant comic Dave
Chappelle. This movie also features great music and entertainment. But
if you think this movie is full of Dave Chappelles wild skits like on
the Chappelle Show, ill let you know right now its not. Its a
documentary about him putting this Block Party together. While it does
have his amazing comic brilliance in it, it is MOSTLY filled with great
music. Still I loved this movie for all its aspects, the Music, the
jokes, the stories, and the entertainment. With Musical talent
including Mos Deff, Kanye West, The Roots, Dead Prez, the Commons, a
reunion of The Fugees, and much much more, this is a must see. So many
of the movies that are put into theaters are not worth your 8-10
dollars, this one is. BUT go see it knowing that its not the Chappelle
Show.
<|_=00=_|>
Some have said that Michel Gondry directed this documentary (this is
not a movie) like their grandfather would have done with a mini-DV
camera. Well, man, I'd like to meet your grandfather.

For those of you who don't know "When We Were Kings", it's time to
watch it. Because both this documentaries are about the same thing. Of
course I wouldn't say Block Party is as good, nor as powerful as when
we were kings. But the purpose is the same: try to unite black people
on one event, try to make them realise that even when you're black and
coming from a poor neighbourhood, you can do something of your life
without only blaming the white man for your condition. 

Of course, at the time When We Were Kings was shot, Mobutu was Zaire's
Dictator, and the movie was financed by Liberian producers, who mostly
owned their money from selling diamonds coming from Sierra Leone,
exchanged against AK-47's and other weapons. Therefore the omnipotent
contradiction hidden behind the Black condition, and even mankind in
general, but it has hurt black people much more: people trying to do
good, and others getting money out of it with no rules or respect for
anything or anyone.

So, for once, here in Block Party, it's something done for fun, not for
money, but also for ideas, with representatives of this movement we
don't see enough: Not only people AGAINST something or someone, but FOR
a change, using the power that is present in this population. And
Michel Gondry, who is a GREAT director, filmed this in the same way
When We Were Kings was shot. Camera in hand, close-ups, rough cuts,
interviews over the music, same kind of music, same kind of people.
Showing the poverty, and showing there's hope. It's not a masterpiece
to me, but a good documentary. And of course, if you don't like hip-hop
it's hard to like it. I'm a huge fan of ALL the artist on this movie, I
would have made exactly the same programmation if I had been in
control!
<|_=00=_|>
Seeing this picture after a Hard night of partying, I had few
expectations. But the laughs I had at the beginning of the movie set
the tone for the rest of the picture. I just recently became a
Chappelle fan, having only heard his comedy on Satellite radio. But I
thought this movie was a nice blend of street and situational comedy,
and I couldn't take my eyes off the circa. 1972 afro that Quest was
sporting. It was poetry in motion.

I was not very knowledgeable about a few of the groups in the movie but
I thought the concert scenes were great, and was in awe of the sheer
musical ability of the featured groups; so much so, that I stopped and
picked up a Jill Scott CD for my ride home. 

You will laugh at the comedy scenes but this movie is not really about
making you laugh. It seems to be a cross-cultural primer using comedy,
music and just general conversation, to give all of us a small look
into each other's world.
<|_=00=_|>
For someone like me who didn't watch much of Dave Chappelle or who
isn't big into the hip-hop music, I was actually pleased with this.
Maybe it's with the help of Michel Gondry, who I read/seen on TV say
that he wanted to humanize the whole experience, both of the artists
and the audience. That he did as I was completely moved and knew if I
had been there, I would've felt the spiritual connection with the
audience that I'm sure those there felt.

I think it was definitely worth the near 10 bucks. A fair amount of
good rap/hip-hop music (dude, I was even bobbing my head), a fair
amount of interviews, a fair amount of comedy, and a fair amount of
social commentary. This movie provides a face for the reason why
hip-hop is relevant to our culture. And, I seriously give mad props to
Dave for getting GOOD rap acts for his party.

Ultimately, I think it's actually better going in not knowing what to
expect from it as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is One of a kind, it created a magic that most films will
never achieve. It is filled with some incredible performances and the
first appearance of the Fugees in almost ten years. If Lauren Hill's
performance doesn't move you then you must be a robot because that
women is a goddess. I think Block Party will be looked back upon and be
remembered as one of the greatest moments for music in the new
millennium. This will go down in the books as one of the greatest Music
documentary's of all time right alongside Woodstock. It is also fun to
watch Dave continue his racial commentary on today's society. I loved
Block Party and will recommend this movie to everyone I know.
<|_=00=_|>
Block Party 

reviewed by Sam Osborn of www.samseescinema.com 

rating: 3.5 out of 4

For a comeback, Dave Chappelle's got it right with Block Party. It
isn't a concert film, but features a hefty amount of highlight
performances. It also isn't a stand-up comedy, but Chappelle certainly
spouts some smile-turning kickers. And Block Party isn't a documentary,
but we're left with a sense of culture from the footage of interviews
throughout. In truth, Block Party really isn't much of anything, but
it's enough to mount dizzying entertainment with the flick of Michel
Gondry's hand-held DV camera. 

It surrounds the conception, pre-production, production, and
post-production of Dave Chappelle's 2005 Brooklyn Block Party. The word
"production" is used loosely here, not to connote images of agents
frantically finding the rights to singers and their songs and the
construction of the set and all the hoo-hah that goes into a major
concert. No. By Pre-Production, I mean Dave Chappelle traveling back to
hometown Dayton, Ohio to hand out the golden tickets to his fellow
citizens. By Production, I mean watching some excellent musical
performances on the corner of Downing and Quincy, in front of the
Broken Angel warehouse, to the sound of 5,000 screaming fans. And by
Post-Production, I mean watching Chappelle and his fellow performers
speculate about the show afterwards.

But for all the linearity described here, Block Party doesn't have mind
for structure. The film doesn't roll chronologically; instead, Block
Party jumps around itself, sometimes going to Ohio, then back to
rehearsal, jumping forward to a highlight performance, and then back to
Brooklyn at a children's day care where the kids bounce frantically
around Chappelle. Gondry worries less about documenting the actual
party, opting instead to find an accessible method for the audience's
entertainment. If the film was said to be trying hard at any one thing,
it would be that Block Party really tries to keep from bogging itself
down.

Chappelle himself does well to not hog the screen. In fact, if there
was any one complaint, it would be that we don't see Chappelle enough.
This is not "Chappelle's Show", after all. There are no skits, and only
a few planned scenes of comedy. Mostly, we follow Chappelle around with
a couple DV cameras and a boom mic as he explores Dayton and Brooklyn,
speaking to their inhabitants and hearing their stories. But this isn't
to say that Chappelle avoids humor. We all know Dave Chappelle's a
funny man when he's not even trying. Believe me, there are many laughs
to be had. The style digs down to why we loved Dave Chappelle in the
first place. Seeing him walk around his hometown in a state of relative
normalcywithout spotlights or producers and writersoffers Block Party
a homegrown attitude. The music reflects this, showcasing artists that
inhabit the quality of music, instead of the financial returns that go
along with it.

And the music's great, too. Gondry does well not to overdose on it,
aware that that the beats may grow tiresome for the anti-rap audience.
He only showcases one or two songs at a time, jumping back to another
Chappelle experience in between. But whether or not you're a regular
fan of rap (I'm not), Block Party's music is sure to rouse some sort of
reaction. The attitude and community behind the music is what makes it
great. The fans and the artists and Chappelle forged a culture at this
party, and this culture is infectious. At the theatre, much of the
audience started dancing and moving to the music in their seats, some
even raising their arms at the musicians' demand. And at it's heart,
it's just about everyonethe fans, the artists, the theatre audience,
and Chappellejust having a good time. 

-www.samseescinema.com
<|_=00=_|>
...However as a rap-concert movie, it's one of the better ones I've
seen in quite a while. It works for a few reasons, though for some it
may not work as well as for others. Basically, if you're coming into
this expecting Chappelle doing more of his stand-up &/or sketches,
you'll wonder how you could've been misled (not that his moments on
screen don't elicit enough laughs for satisfaction, at least for a
Chappelle admirer like myself)- in fact many white audience members
going into the film walked out of screenings. If this is due to the
film-making style or something wrong on the end of director Michel
Gondry, or just not caring for the rap and hip-hop, is up for debate.
But considering the kind of mix of better-than-usual rap music, solid
cinema verier style camera-work by Gondry and his small crew, and the
fine bits of interview footage, it's actually not a bad film if you go
into it knowing what you'll get. For some it may be one of the film
events of the season &/or year.

One reason it worked is that- and this is of course a subjective part
of seeing Block Party- the musical acts are better than most of the rap
and hip-hop currently heard on radio and seen on the music channels.
Led by an actual band playing music as opposed to all beat machines,
the groups (of which are Chappelle's own favorites, and some of which
already appeared on the hit or miss musical segments of his show) bring
out solid beats, and the rappers or singers are not off-putting or
ridiculous. The highlights for me were with Kanye West (with a cool,
powerful mix of himself and a school band for 'Jesus Walks'), The
Roots, and the Fugee's 'Killing Me Softly'. There are also some cool,
loose moments with Chappelle and some people backstage where he jams
and riffs and jokes (funny jokes too, albeit for the musician's expense
more than for the audience). For someone like myself losing interest in
more of the ultra-violent, idiotic and over-indulgent rap music of the
day, it was not unpleasant at all to get dropped back into it with acts
that were fresh and interesting (not that there aren't some mis-steps,
Dead Prez and Common not being some of the highlights for me).

The other thing that made the film work though is Gondry's natural eye
with his lens, as he just stands by getting down the attitudes, the
emotions and little bits of life in the midst of this huge spectacle.
There isn't anything outstanding in his style like with the Maysles
brothers or DA Pennebaker in terms of capturing the music in action,
and sometimes his focus strays to people on camera who take up a little
too much time. But for the most part (with some exceptions of little
moments that just don't work) his attention to the rhythm of a film,
and the rhythm of film led by music- he is one of the most artistically
dominant forces in music videos of the past ten or so years- is focused
just right. This style also compliments Chappelle, who has a laid back
kind of way of talking to people, but with a sense of humor that cuts
the chase. Some of the best parts though of his moments on screen
aren't expected, improvised, like the James Brown bit on stage, or his
obscure ability to play two specific jazz songs on piano, or even his
more juvenile jokes in jamming.

In short, it's a side of Chappelle you might not usually see at times,
or with Gondry, and it all gels together for the sake of the audience
that showed up for the show. Nothing too pretentious, and entertaining
enough to keep those interested in their seats.
