
Hollywood you better get your act together. Thanks you for spitting out
another INSTANTLY forgettable "Blockbuster" Thank God I only paid $4
dollars to see this. Not only can't the Studios come up with original
material. The material they remake is worse than the original. If this
crap keeps up you will have even less of an audience. A good cast given
nothing to chew on and a Director who has made great films and this is
what we get? 150 million and the Ballroom set in the original was more
impressive?

Video games are so prevalent in society that I fear their mind numbing
influence is starting to permeate even NON video game derived movies.
The original movie was a good solid, involving movie. This remake takes
every element of the original and removes what made it involving. I
mean EVERY element. There are people out there making these decisions!!
And they are paid huge sums to make these decisions! With the talent in
front of and behind the camera this is truly frightening as this seems
to be the norm at the present.

Right from the start there is almost NO set up. We don't know where the
ship is, where it is sailing, even what ocean it's on! Things that
actually would create some atmosphere like the originals speech by the
Captain explaining the origin of Poseidon. Greek God of the Sea. They
are sailing on the Mediterranean, to Greece? Get it? Cheesy but
involving. You know it gives the proceedings some gravatis, some
mystery. In the remake we get nothing, we are are in Video game land,
we don't have time for such things.

Even the cause for the disaster has absolutely no set up. Happy new
year, bang, the tidal wave hits. Unlike the originals slow build up, as
it explained WHAT WAS HAPPENING AND WHY! Even the effects in the
original worked better. They were simpler but executed as a whole
created more of an impact because of the tension that was built up.
Again a sense of gravity, HUMAN INVOLVEMENT and Atmosphere! Even in the
original, Leslie Nielsen's corny grimace as the wave engulfs the ship.
It's goofy but you REMEMBER IT. You know a character we identify with
reacting to the impending disaster. It's a very basic cinematic
technique. But I guess todays more "sophisticated" audience don't need
this kind of thing anymore.

There is no human involvement in the wave hitting in this remake. The
Captain isn't called to the bridge, no build up, just some crew members
we've had no contact with running around. Absolutely unmemorable. The
effects are impressive but who cares, I'm not given anything to latch
on to.

Straight across the board EVERY situation is diminished from the
original. The scene chewing conflict between Gene Hackaman and Ernest
Borgnine is totally lost in the remake. There is NO conflict with the
characters. NONE! It's just one disaster to overcome to the next. You
know , like a VIDEO GAME.

Even the self sacrificing Shelly Winters death swim has almost no
emotional impact because the character doesn't return and die in front
of everybody. Like DUH! Hey screen writers perhaps you should learn of
something called ELEMENTS OF DRAMA!! Even if you have no talent you
could at least COPY the original, not make it worse! Absolutely mind
boggling!! If you WANTED to sabotage the original you couldn't have
done a better job. UNREAL! All you film lovers just keep repeating
"Things will get better" Repeat it like a prayer.
<|_=00=_|>
In the original POSEIDON ADVENTURE, the venerable SS Poseidon was on
its last voyage, even before it had a wave of bad luck. Headed to port
to be turned to scrap, the aging luxury liner was comfortably aged and
loaded down with a bunch of amiable B-list movie stars playing rather
endearingly ordinary people. POSEIDON, the remake, is apparently far
from being on its last leg; sparkling new and lavishly decorated in
nondescript, tasteless elegance, it is carrying a passenger list of
dubious VIPs, who don't even have enough dimension to be clichés and
are played by actors, who, though competent, would barely even rate
being on the B-list. 

But it does seem to have a healthy cargo of things that blow up.
Indeed, it seems that more of the unfortunate victims of this seagoing
disaster meet fiery deaths than watery ones -- explosions being far
more photogenic than the inability to hold ones breath for very long.

POSEIDON the new movie is very much like Poseidon the new ship: cold,
efficient, impersonal and doomed to sink like a rock. The most
remarkable thing about this SS Poseidon is that it has a huge bridge
full of technicians and flashing electronic gizmos, yet the 150-foot
tidal wave that flips the boat sneaks up on everyone without warning.
Apparently the wave spotting equipment they use is from the same
company that created iceberg detecting equipment for the Titanic.
Indeed, the first person to spot the tidal wave is a passenger played
by a strangely subdued Richard Dreyfuss, whose impromptu suicide
attempt is rudely interrupted. 

The movie itself is pretty much an empty vessel, though it is certainly
a product of its time. Trivial concerns such as story and character are
jettisoned in favor of elaborate and expensive sets and CGI special
effects. Indeed, the imagery of the new POSEIDON is most impressive and
outshines the then-cutting edge productions values of the 1972
original. Yet, it isn't nearly as effective in any regard. The original
film had its ragtag band of survivalists interacting with their
topsy-turvy environment, where this time the stunts and sets and CGI
simply overwhelm everything and everybody. Like so many CGI
blockbusters, human interaction is merely a bothersome detail; the real
focus being on the violent extermination of masses of nameless,
faceless victims. And once again, Hollywood has mistaken technological
gimmickry for storytelling skill. 

When the film does try to escape from tired predictability it bites off
far more than it can chew. At one point a main character is compelled
to kill another character in order to save himself, yet this intense
and perverse moment early in the film is never dealt with again. The
surviving character must neither redeem himself or face karmic
punishment for his act. The secondary character is just killed and
forgotten -- presumably because the character and the actor playing the
part weren't important enough to care about. After that, it is hard to
care about the fate of anyone else. The film has no sense of humanity,
let alone a sense of humor about the absurdity of the entire premise.

The cast, not unduly burdened with characters to play or chances to
actually act, run the obstacle course with dogged professionalism. Kurt
Russell is no Gene Hackman, but he is in the unfortunate position of
being too good of an actor for this type of film, yet not big enough of
a star to actually carry it. Young Jimmy Bennet is perfectly convincing
as a terrified child and Josh Lucas has an impressive underbite
perfectly suited for jutting out his chin in fierce determination.
Other than that, the cast is unremarkable, sadly lacking even any Carol
Lynleys or Pamela Sue Martins, let alone such wonderfully hammy pros
like Roddy McDowall, Stella Stevens, Ernest Borgnine or the inimitable
Shelley Winters. None of the characters/actors stand out enough to be
sympathetic, endearing or even memorable. Indeed, the three female
leads -- Jacinda Barrett, Emmy Rossum and Mía Maestro -- are so
interchangeable that it is hard to tell their characters apart. 

I suppose that the filmmakers wanted this to be like the remake of KING
KONG, an eye-popping, special effects reinvention of a well-worn story.
But, instead, POSEIDON ends up being like the woefully unnecessary
remake of PSYCHO: there was no need, demand or purpose for this film to
exist and the filmmakers reveal they have no apparent clue as to why
the original is loved in the first place. That's what happens when you
set sail without a compass; you just get lost at sea.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended an IMAX screening with a group of friends and family on
opening day. Some of us are fans of the original. At least one had seen
neither the original nor the Hallmark miniseries. One thing became
clear early on in this film: a sky-high budget isn't worth a bucket of
seawater if the characters aren't interesting or involving.

On New Year's Eve, the ocean liner, Poseidon, is capsized by an
enormous rogue wave that appears without warning. Seems all the
sophisticated equipment on the bridge doesn't include reliable radar
targeting; rather, the wall of water is detected Carnac-style by a
bridge officer, and then spotted by a depressed passenger inches away
from taking his life by jumping overboard (the audience laughed out
loud during the former instance). What follows is the life-and-death
struggle of a handful of wealthy Caucasian, er, I mean, assorted
passengers through the fiery, waterlogged bowels of the overturned
ship, as they attempt to reach and escape through one of the bow
thrusters. Who are these people? I couldn't tell you, because at least
one person in our group fell asleep during the film, and afterwards,
the rest of us could barely remember any of the leads' names or back
stories. We learn nothing about the central characters by the end of
the film that we didn't already know or sense in the opening
introductions. Storytelling is dead in Hollywood.

The Poseidon Adventure, starring Gene Hackman, is still loved by many
decades after its release, because the creative forces behind that
project breathed life into the characters and crafted a solid film.
Wolfgang Petersen's re-imaging, Poseidon, will be forgotten faster than
yesterday's breakfast buffet aboard the Pacific Princess, for exactly
the opposite reason. It's yet another exercise in CGI gimmickry and a
hollow voyage to nowhere.
<|_=00=_|>
Especially one that sinks Titanic in special effects...

This is a remake of The Poseidon Adventure (1972). Before you jump on
the bandwagon and start bashing it on this basis alone, keep it mind
that the original film was not exactly a masterpiece. It was a film
that sacrificed scientific reality to propel an inane plot, filled with
one-dimensional characters and compensated for it with action-overload.
Poseidon is exactly the same -- ridiculous plot, intrepid characters
and big slice of adventure. What is different in this version is the
masterful CGI. This is a perfect time to remake a film like this (much
better than in 1972) -- just go overboard with special effects and no
one will notice the flawed writing (which is basically a sketchbook
mess).

This is the reason Poseidon does not fail in entertaining the audience.
I'll admit that I was skeptical when Fergie of the Black Eyed Peas
appeared in all her plastic surgery glory and Josh Lucas spouted out
some cheeseball line ("Where is the disco?" "Why, you feel like dancing
now?"), but I set its cringeworthy dialogue aside early on and focused
my energy on not wanting to kill Fergie. The giant tidal wave capsizing
the luxury liner Poseidon would take care of that, leaving only a small
group of people fighting to reach the top and get out. 

Another thing, besides special effects, that is by far better in this
version is that the characters are actually interested in surviving and
do not stop every few minutes for a petty argument as in The Poseidon
Adventure (1972). Make no mistake however, these characters are still
dumb to the core, getting by on lucky circumstances, occasional heroic
feats and conveniently appearing objects and hatches  you've seen it
all before, but damn, this is sensationally quality action.

Overall, Poseidon is bathed in a militantly hectic mood and is as
fast-paced as any action film you'll see. It features mind-numbing
special effects, overdoses of excitement and just typical Wolfgang
Peterson overkill. It definitely won't disappoint you if you're looking
for cheap but solid adrenaline kicks. I'd even happily sit through this
experience again.

6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
It all starts off so well too. The opening shot of Wolfgang Petersen's
Poseidon is beautiful. A single take that begins beneath the surface of
the ocean that swings up and out of it as the underside of the ship
slices through the waves, before pivoting round the colossal cruise
liner and zeroing in on Josh Lucas running on the deck. With the sun
setting in the distance and the immense size of the vessel itself
contrasted with the deep blue of the water, this is a visually
astounding entrance to a movie that is unfortunately very shallow
indeed.

A remake of the classic disaster movie The Poseidon Adventure, this
tells much the same story with a small group of passengers trying to
escape a doomed ocean liner after it capsizes due to a freak wave.
Given the beloved status of the original, besting it was going to be
tricky from the start so how to do it? Bestow the characters with as
much depth and humanity as possible, arrange it so that you don't want
any of them to die just as the original film did? No. That isn't the
21st Century Studio Approach to blockbusters at all, the trick is
explosions! Lots of explosions! And dangerous stunts that happen in
very quick succession with no set up whatsoever.

As a result, things happen very quickly. We've hardly got to know
anyone on the ship before the wave strikes and sends their world
tumbling upside down in a hail of glass and debris. Trapped beneath the
waves, there is no debate on the best means of survival but instead a
bull headed rush to escape as soon as possible and before you know it,
barely any time has elapsed before we have our luckless nobodies
dangling from lift shafts, diving through burning oil slicks or
scrambling up air vents rapidly filling with water. This could all be
very entertaining if it wasn't so empty and if only they'd eased back
on the throttle a little bit, we could have had a much more successful
film.

Kurt Russell for instance is wasted. As an ex firefighter and former
Mayor of New York with a failed marriage behind him, they could have
crafted the image of a troubled man going through a midlife crisis who
finds himself tested beyond his limits. Instead, the only hints at any
characterisation are him protesting his daughter's cleavage bearing
dress to leave no doubt that theirs is a strained relationship. Then
there is Richard Dreyfuss (who has finally found a bigger boat), whose
character might as well be listed in the credits as "depressed, elderly
gay man." Everyone else is just as vacuous and while Josh Lucas is
certainly a charismatic focal point, it cannot make up for the two
dimensional stereotypes of Kevin Dillon's gambler Lucky Larry or Mike
Vogel's performance as Christian, the fiancée of Russell's daughter who
manages to put in perhaps the worst attempt at acting you will see in a
blockbuster this year.

It does have a few commendable points though. One death scene involving
a lift shaft, jagged metal spikes and an explosion is an adrenaline
pumping crowd pleaser and the aforementioned scramble through the
flooding ventilation shaft is really quite tense, the ensemble cast
squeezed together in a claustrophobic nightmare as the water bubbles up
around them. Ultimately though, it is not enough to save it. Poseidon
may make for a diverting hour and a half but Hollywood needs to learn a
valuable lesson about plotting: bigger explosions and insane stunts are
nowhere near as impressive if we don't care about the people involved.
The original version made an entire generation terrified of getting on
a boat with Ernest Borgnine, this is just laughable.
<|_=00=_|>
It is important to point out that this new film is only based on THE
POSEIDON ADVENTURE ... it is not a remake. When a passenger ship (named
Poseidon) is hit by a large wave on New Years Eve and capsizes, a
handful of people struggle to escape. Other than that, do not expect
any similarities -- not one character, not one line of dialog, not one
scene...

I first saw the original film when I was ten years old and have been a
huge fan ever since. Surely TPA (as imperfect as it may be), was the
catalyst that spurred my interest in ocean liners, architecture,
classical music ... and Art Deco design. Therefore, I was excited about
the latest film -- and pleased that it had been given to a talented
director. I knew that the film and its characters had been
changed/updated and was cool with that. But after viewing the new film
twice now, I feel a bit let down.

I don't want to touch on the stale characters. Although it is a major
flaw, that subject has already been addressed again and again on this
board.

The cast (with the exception of Dreyfuss) are ALL buff and beautiful --
no fatties or uglies here. Of course, some of the physical obstacles in
this film would require the endurance of a champion athlete and the
bravado of a Schwarzenegger action hero! This is definitely not the
motley group of survivors found in the original.

The CGI graphics were very good. The ship was beautiful in a glitzy Las
Vegas sort of way ... but the Poseidon never seemed very "real" to me.
Perhaps it was all those overly elaborate CGI camera shots? Not really
sure why. The Titanic certainly seemed "real" in TITANIC. But for me,
the Poseidon seemed as plastic as the people on it.

The capsizing sequence was stunning, but so many areas of the ship were
highlighted in such a short time that I never really felt I was part of
the action. There were no screaming passengers clinging/falling from
overturned tables. No man falling backwards onto an illuminated
skylight (a famous cinematic scene). And no Christmas tree!?! The
Christmas tree played a pivotal role in the original film ... from
passengers falling into it during the capsizing ... to it unexpectedly
crashing down ... to the survivors climbing it (and Mrs. Rosen getting
stuck in the spokes) ... to it falling back into the flooding Dining
Room when panic ensues! Why leave it out entirely when there are so
many cinematic possibilities? Instead the characters in the new film
"sneak out" of the Ballroom using some stacked chairs. There is
absolutely no plea for others to join them even though they know that
anyone left behind may die. I suppose it says something about today's
society ... "I'm getting out of here -- to hell with everyone else!".
But these guys are supposed to be the heroes in the film?

Don't expect much humor in this film either. I really missed the funny
scene with the upside-down bathroom set. I can't imagine not working
that into the new movie! But these new action-survivors don't seem to
require toilets ... or rest. They keep going and going -- through one
unrealistic scenario one after another!

It was strange that the survivors find heaps of dead bodies everywhere
they go, but never any other survivors. A ship this size would be
expected to have over 4000 people on-board. Where are they? When our
survivors merge in the Nightclub/Disco, they then struggle to find an
escape route. So where did the 200-300 other people who left the room
moments earlier go? And why can't our survivors seem to find a
staircase/elevator core on this ship? Every modern passenger ship has
several -- found every 200-feet or so. There is always one adjacent to
the atrium (in addition to the grand stairway and glass elevators).
Perhaps all the other people immediately ran up one of the usually
ever-present staircases and escaped out a porthole hours earlier? That
would certainly explain the absence of other people...

I must admit that I missed John William's music from the original. I
wonder why he wasn't hired to update his existing TPA score -- dramatic
in all the right places and the deep "bell" sound accompanying the
music is indeed haunting. And wouldn't it be fun for all us old-timers
if they had used "The Morning After" (Academy Award-winning song from
the original) and updated it in the new film?

As fun as the original film may have been, I know that it is flawed, so
some rewriting would be expected. And the producers obviously felt the
need to update the original film to appeal to modern movie (and
cruising) audiences. But this new version seems soulless. I feel that
they may have been better off setting the film in 1972 and using the
original campy script! That wonderful, but cheesy, dialog ran the gamut
from the ridiculous to the sublime! Some of the quotes are classics!
The new film's dialog is completely forgettable.

I suppose that this new film is fine if you are not expecting much. I
was obviously hoping that Petersen would turn the original film into
another TITANIC. But this POSEIDON is what it is ... a mindless summer
action movie with dazzling special effects. Should appeal to teenagers.
Though it is doubtful that this new film will inspire many youths or
ever become a cult classic. And decades from now, will it have web
pages, fan clubs and conventions devoted to it?

Actually, I'm guessing that by this time next year, this POSEIDON will
be largely forgotten ... as it should be.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie epitomizes what is wrong with Hollywood today. Because they
lack imagination, the major film studios either copy an idea from a
foreign film (Japanese, French, English, especially) or make a sequel
or remake of an an existing moneymaker and milk it to death. Where are
the original ideas? The Hollywood movie industry (and most of American
TV for that matter) has become far too idealistic in my view. The
characters are depicted as, not how people really are, but how we would
like them to be, and the viewers often emulate what they see on screen
as if life actually IS like that. Why should it be all about the
'bottom line'. Out of the top 10 top grossing movies each year, how
many actually make a profit? It seems to be a matter of just churning
out this sort of garbage and hoping for the best. Why don't the major
studios spend the same amount of money making fewer but better films?
One wonders sometimes how people are convinced into investing good
money in making this rubbish. Poseidon? So far this 'blockbuster' has
grossed $50 million  a long way from the $140 million it cost to make.
Chances are it won't even break even. It becomes very obvious right
from the start that it is formulaic and clichéd. For example, why
anyone in their right mind would take a woman and her young son along
with the exploring party is anyone's guess. Probably because they prove
useful along the way. The Hispanic busboy (Valentine) who tags along
was the obvious candidate to die being a nonentity, an unknown actor.
It's all squarely aimed at the 'demographic'  the 13-30 group. That's
why there is always a child involved in the story, why most of the
characters are 30 years old  and good looking. That's why we have a
politically correct cast with a black captain, Hispanic entertainers,
etc. There is a always a love interest to attract the female segment of
the audience and there is always a happy ending one way or another. We
have the usual combination of 'B' list actors and those desperate for
work, who go through the motions of what passes for acting these days.
'Stand on your mark and say your line when it's your turn'. Don't the
directors realize that when people talk to one another, they often
interrupt one another? Robert Altman knows this but few others. The
special effects are good but with a few too many quick camera movements
that are hard on the eye after a while. After only a few minutes I
realized that I had seen this movie before in all its forms. Even
though the backdrop changes, the character development is always the
same. The guy who cares only for himself discovers that he has some
redeeming features, The hero will do heroic things and maybe make the
supreme sacrifice to save others. Father and son/daughter will
reconcile their differences, the coward becomes brave, etc.etc. I've
seen it all before.
<|_=00=_|>
On New Year's Eve, the luxury cruise ship Poseidon is hit by an
enormous wave that flips it upside-down stranding thousands of
passengers underwater. A group of passengers join together to try to
escape the ship.

The original Poseidon was decent disaster film. It had engaging
characters, decent special effects and a cheesy storyline. The remake
is more or less the same minus the interesting characters, charm and
suspense. Okay, the remake did have a few suspenseful scenes though
nothing very memorable or original. The reason why the film wasn't very
suspenseful was because the characters were all one dimensional and
dull. There was no character development at all so it was hard to care
for these people. While watching the movie, it's just easier to refer
to them as generic titles like "the old guy" or something. Actually, if
you use this method then you can probably figure out who will die and
in what order they will die.

The acting is very weak and unconvincing. Josh Lucas is an okay actor
but he wasn't very good here. He just didn't make a good hero nor was
his character very likable. Kurt Russell was okay, nothing special.
Emmy Rossum was terrible as Jennifer. Her performance felt so forced
and over the top. The way she expressed her emotions just looked so
fake and unconvincing. Jimmy Bennett was just annoying as Conor.
Richard Dreyfuss was very misused and his character seemed out of
place. Jacinda Barrett gives a laughable performance, it was just very
poor. I should warn you (or comfort you?) that Stacy Ferguson from the
Black Eyed peas is only in the movie for about 10 minutes, maybe a
little less.

When judged as a disaster film, Poseidon is actually pretty decent. The
special effects were great though 160 million was obviously just a bit
too much. Wolfgang Petersen is really good at making a film appear
stylish including the ship which looked amazing. His storytelling
skills aren't as good though. The combination of a weak script didn't
help matters either. The movie was just too corny at times for my
taste. For example, there was once scene where Josh Lucas was planning
to escape the ballroom and one by one, the rest of the characters just
come up and ask to come along. It was just a bit too obvious and they
should have handled it differently. I also thought it was kind of dumb
that all the characters were able to hold their breath underwater for
large amounts of time. Despite these flaws, there were a few engaging
scenes and some touching moments. Also, the movie is pretty short so
it's not really too much of a pain to sit through. This helped the
experience a little though I wouldn't have minded a longer movie. In
the end, Poseidon may not be worth checking out in theaters but it
should make for a decent rental. Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Poseidon' Josh Lucas plays Dylan Johns, a professional gambler.
When a freak 'rogue wave' incident causes the Poseidon cruise ship to
capsize, Dylan has gamble for his life. Deciding not to listen to the
captain (Andre Braugher), Dylan tries leads a group of passengers (Kurt
Russell, Richard Dreyfuss, Emmy Rossum, etc.) to safety.

This is a modern remake of the 1972 'The Poseidon Adventure'. I do not
remember the original, but I think this one live up to its name. It is
like 'Titanic' meets 'The Towering Inferno'. There is a lot of intense
action that keeps one on the edge of their seat.

There is not much drama and I do not think it will add too much to the
original story. I also noticed that the movie is just over an hour and
a half, it is not very long. However, I think audiences will enjoy the
intensity of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Gallico's novel, published in 1969, is not so much a disaster
novel, as it is a grim character study of people caught up in a
disaster. The book is gripping in it's savage brutality. The
character's are stripped of all pretensions, and self delusions. They
reveal more and more of their inner selves as they climbed further and
further into the ship.

The 1972 film only hinted at this. The Hallmark TV film, only had
conventional characters who reacted in conventional and unsurprising
ways to the various challenges.

Now, Wolfgang Peterson has stripped the story of all humanity and
created what amounts to a two hour film in which the audience watches a
very large kinetic sculpture designed to destroy itself. The actors
seem to be more like cogs and wheels in that sculpture than human
beings. There is no character development and no plot. 

Yes, the special effects are fantastic, especially as the wave strikes
and capsizes the ship. The sets are stunning but sterile, and the
action is absolutely nonstop. And THAT is all the film has going for
it. Peterson seems to be catering to those with minds only developed
enough to pay attention to movement and pretty lights, like a small
baby watching a mobile hung over its crib.

Many of the actors are quite good. We know that because of their past
bodies of work. Unfortunately, in this film they may as well have had
animated wax figures playing their roles. True, the Irwin Allen film
had a number of overblown and hammy performances, but those actors at
least had something to bite into. A lobotomized Frances Farmer would
have been able to handle these empty insignificant characters. 

In interviews, Richard Dreyfuss commented that he did this film for
money. I certainly understand that! He definitely didn't do it because
it was a great part. He played a gay man, suicidal and depressed
because his lover has left him. Unfortunately his being gay seemed
rather gratuitous. Publicity for the film stated that he suddenly
discovers he very much wants to live. This also seemed gratuitous.

Kurt Russell plays the role of a former NYC firefighter and mayor and
seems to have fallen into the real life role of aging action hero
making way for younger action hero. 

Kevin Dylan plays a character named Lucky Larry, who seemed obviously
patterned after computer game icon Leisure Suit Larry. His character
would have been quite enjoyable had he not been so reprehensible.

As far as the rest of the cast went, you may as well have taken them
like so many Barbie and Ken dolls, popped off their heads and
interchanged them.

The costumes were pretty much what you might expect to see aboard ship
on New Year's Eve, but nothing strikingly great. The only one that
stood out was the singer (who I understand is a member of The
Black-eyed Peas). It was so awful, I mistook her for a Charo
impersonator. But at least it stood out.

One thing I must give the filmmakers an A+ on. The underwater shots of
the ship were extraordinarily impressive. The attention to detail with
all the debris and parts of the ship breaking away seemed very
realistic. I do have a final question, however (and a nit-picky one at
that). Do they no longer bolt down tables and other large furniture
aboard luxury liners?
