
I just saw this at a press screening. It's very smart, well-made and
entertaining, directed with sure-handed control, full of quirky, funny
moments and superb acting. The film pretty much avoids clichés,
although it does rely a bit on the familiar "Aren't Middle-Americans
quirky?" idea for its humor. But Jarmusch never goes too far with this,
his restraint keeping the film propelled from beginning to end.

The only weakness for me is rooted in the film's strength: I feel like
there's not quite enough here. 

Murray's character is beleaguered and despondent, Murray plays him with
perfect subtlety. This is fun and fascinating to watch; I found myself
hanging onto every little expression on Murray's face. But, the
combination of his passive, muted performance and the spare
storytelling left me wanting more. It just doesn't have as much impact
as I feel it could have. So, yes, it's wonderful minimalism, but
perhaps a bit too slight of a movie to have any lasting resonance.

Bill Murray has added another very good performance to his career, and
Jim Jarmusch has made another compact little gem (unlike some of his
more recent films). Unique and entertaining. Definitely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
There has been a lot of talk that "Broken Flowers" is Jim Jarmusch's
most commercially accessible film to date. One can almost hear Jarmusch
muttering something reactionary like "commercial? That's just a label."
It's a label that some Jarmusch fans might associate with "selling
out". But selling out does not apply to Jim Jarmusch. He still has
complete control of his work and is still the only American filmmaker
who owns his own negatives. If "Broken Flowers" does break into the
mainstream, it is nothing overly deliberate. Jarmusch makes familiar
films that seem intimate in their tone. He toys with old themes while
still leaving his films open to interpretation. 

"Broken Flowers" is a travelogue and like most Jarmusch films, the
story is more concerned with the journey but not so much about the
destination. Bill Murray plays Don Johnston, a man who we know little
about. We know he's single and we know he's had some flame's in the
past. The last one just walked out on him. When Don receives an
anonymous letter from one of these old flames, he learns that he has a
twenty year old son who might be looking for him." Don thinks this is a
joke but takes the advice from a friend to unfold the mystery by
tracking down his past flings. He flies somewhere to a generic American
place, rents a car and begins his investigation. Each ex has an
individual personality but most of them share something similar. They
are content and have moved on from the past. One of the ex's we meet
works in real estate and decides it would be a good idea for her to get
into the water business because "one day in the near future it will be
more valuable then oil." The atmosphere is awkward and rather then care
whether this woman is responsible for the anonymous letter, we just
feel like getting out of there. The film's journey is absurd in many
ways because we are never sure what the real point is. What is Don
going to do if he does find his son? This where Bill Murray's credit as
an actor shines through. We see from his small facial gestures that he
is empty, and sad. There is a sense of longing as if life took a wrong
turn somewhere and it is only now that he is realizing it. The ending
of "Broken Flowers" is what really makes the film special. Don't expect
too much or too little. Just see it. Its inspiring, hopeful and better
then any other movie this year. The film also has a great soundtrack by
Ethiopian musician, Mulatu Astatke. And we see in the credits that
Jarmusch dedicated the film to French filmmaker Jean Eustache. Jean
Eustache made a phenomenal film in the 1960's titled, "The Mother and
The Whore". He had an influence on John Cassavetes and likewise both
had an influence on Jim Jarmusch.
<|_=00=_|>
After viewing the trailer, I was hopeful that Broken Flowers might
prove to be a subtly humorous and sweet film such as Lost in
Translation, which I very much liked. But by the end I, and my family,
couldn't believe we had been made to sit through two hours of
excruciatingly slow pacing for no seeming reason.

I am not a film buff, but am a theater person. Though I don't know all
of Jarmusch's previous films, tactics, or techniques, I do understand
some basic principles of storytelling, and I feel that this did not
meet them satisfactorily. It is a beautiful and satisfying thing for
the writer to leave something to the audiences' imagination, making
them engage their imaginations to complete the story rather than remain
passive viewers who are spoon fed answers and entertainment.But this
can be taken too far, and I felt that the film left too much to the
audience, without providing enough meat to sink our imaginations into.

The one really touching moment came,I thought, when at the end of his
list of former girlfriends, he visits a graveyard and the gravestone of
a former flame. A close shot catches Murray with tears welling in his
eyes. This would have been a terrific moment...if we hadn't been made
to wait so long that we didn't even care.

I agree with other comments that I saw little to no trace of the Don
Juan that could have attracted so many women (including the four women
in the film whom he supposedly bedded the same year). Even if he had
had an incredible vigor in the past, why would he have a gorgeous
girlfriend apparently 20 years his junior at present? And what does he
want? I was never able to discover that. Without any seeming motivation
and without the development of relationships or any type of build that
culminated in anything significant, I felt cheated by the end. Any
point that could be made in the film feels like it could have been made
in the first 30 minutes. After that it was just more of the same.
Whereas Lost in Translation made a statement about the loneliness of
two people in a foreign country by its slow pace, it also interwove the
pacing with a touching and unconventional relationship that gave the
audience something to engage in and watch develop. Nothing seemed to
develop here. Which raises the question, Why should we care?
<|_=00=_|>
Barely dramatic, thematic but enigmatic, that's Jim Jarmusch's Broken
Flowers. His Stranger than Paradise was exactly that, a Cleveland road
trip to existential uncertainty. In Broken Flowers, Bill Murray as Don
Johnston is also on a trip, but more certain of his goal than anyone in
Stranger, for he seeks out his alleged son by visiting former lovers,
one of whom anonymously wrote that she had borne him a child 19 years
ago.

The formidable women, including a randy Sharon Stone happily lampooning
her film persona and Tilda Swinton, tougher and more dangerous than all
the others in her biker mom role, never really sway him from seeking
his son or finding himself. Beyond discovering that you can't change
the past of "an over-the-hill Don Juan," much less understand him,
reflected in the depressing but authentic lack of communication with
all but one of his wives, Murray may have discovered on his low-key
picaresque a truer self than he had ever known before. He may be beaten
up physically, he may be unable to close the case of his putative son,
and he may have divorced himself from his millionaire persona as a
computer whiz, but he remains a deeply calm, lonely wanderer in his
effort to solve his case.

An amateur detective, neighbor Winston has the spirit and energy Don
does not have, yet Don is deeper and more reflective. In fact he
outstrips all of his former loves in kindness and caring in calm
response to often explosive situations, for instance when Stone's
daughter, Lolita, comes on to him only to find he is not available.

I complain American films are not sophisticated like Euro flicks, but
Jarmusch has come close with this slow, laconic, and demanding indie.
Hats off to Bill Murray for mixing minimalist with passionate this time
aroundhis purpose and his change of character make his aging Hollywood
star Bob from Lost in Translation just a dress rehearsal for this
Oscar-worthy performance and film.

Perhaps Don's discovery is twofold: his potential to love others and
himself. As Alexander Smith declared, "Love is but the discovery of
ourselves in others, and the delight in the recognition."
<|_=00=_|>
Whether it was (shrewdly) planned or not, Bill Murray has become one of
our greatest cinematic resources, just as comfortable doing dry comedy
as he is acting in a mood piece; his whole melancholy being has become
perfect for avant-garde comedy, and this meticulously-mounted and
shaded 'dramedy' is a Bill Murray vehicle all the way. The
loosely-structured plot deals with calling up the past, which it says
you can't really do because it's gone, and not worrying about the
future because it isn't here yet. Murray plays a computer businessman,
a committed bachelor and "over-the-hill Don Juan", who receives news he
might have fathered a child with an ex-girlfriend 20 years ago. The
film, helmed under the more effective title "Dead Flowers", is an
unintended journey of self-discovery which is purposely incomplete but
not pointless; the screenplay leaves the scenario open for discussion,
and writer-director Jim Jarmusch structures each sequence in such a
cockeyed way that we don't really know where the movie is headed. This
is perfect for audiences interested in something a little different,
and even if the pacing is dryly solemn or slow, the picture delights in
being anti-formula. A very good film, difficult as an entertainment per
se and often puzzling or obtuse, though it continues Bill Murray on the
path of an actor of incredible taste, decision and consequence. ***
from ****
<|_=00=_|>
I can't think of an actor better suited to play the expressionless
chronic bachelor Don at the heart of Jim Jarmusch's newest movie than
Bill Murray. His mournful hound-dog face, which hides any trace of
what's going on inside the head on which it sits, stares blankly at the
T.V., at other people, sometimes at nothing, betrays itself with the
slightest movement of the mouth or twitch of the eyes. It's a
characterization Murray has so down pat that I'm tempted to think he's
not really acting all that much, but he's so perfectly cast that it
doesn't much matter whether he's acting or not.

If you're not familiar with the movies of Jim Jarmusch, "Broken
Flowers" is a nice introduction, as it's the most accessible Jarmusch
film I've seen. I'm not a huge fan, but I liked this movie quite a lot.
Don receives an anonymous letter one day from a past girlfriend,
telling him he has a 19-year-old son who may come looking for him.
Murray's friend, Winston (played amusingly by the chameleon Jeffrey
Wright), convinces him to track down a handful of women who could have
possibly been the mother and resolve the mystery. Don agrees to it,
seemingly not so much because he has a need to know but because he has
nothing better to do. What follows is a series of scenes with each past
girlfriend, during which their interactions with Don tell us heaps
about their relationship back when they were dating. Some are
affectionate, some are distant, one is downright scarily angry, but all
are played beautifully by a quartet of actresses: Sharon Stone, Frances
Conroy, Jessica Lange and Tilda Swinton.

This is Jarmusch, so there aren't necessarily any tidy answers, and I
don't think I give anything away by saying that the mystery is never
solved. Life is messy, and it doesn't always happily resolve itself
just because we want it to. I liked how subtle the film was; Don
doesn't make any huge ground-breaking discoveries about himself, but
nevertheless you sense that he's a slightly different person after his
journey than he was before it.

You'll have to be patient, as Jarmusch tells his story very slowly, and
nearly all of Don's interaction with others is ponderously awkward. But
the movie slowly begins to fascinate, and you find yourself watching
the faces of the women he visits (and examining the visible details of
their lives) much in the same way that Don is himself, looking for the
slightest hint that she might be the one who sent that fateful letter.

A very fine film, poignant and sad in a rather obscure way, and one
that stays in your mind for a while after seeing it.

Grade: A-
<|_=00=_|>
I just can't stand Jarmusch. He's under the impression that watching
uninteresting people do absolutely nothing is art. It's not art. It's
like sending my grandfather with a handi-cam around for a day and
watching the footage. Murray is a good actor, but any actor working
with a script like this would crash and burn as Murray did. People
claim to like this film because it's "the most
non-mainstream/mainstream film". Psudo-intellectuals are having a ball
with that statement. They love to think they're different because they
like a movie with no conclusions.

It's sad that the whole film was strongly pushing for continuation of
the plot, yet nothing ever gets resolved. In the end Murray has no idea
who his son is. There are so many different possibilities. I personally
wanted an ending like Sideways. An ending where you know who it is, but
there's absolutely no interaction between them, they just know.

But no, in the end Murray is exactly the same. Nothing
happened...literally. People can say, "Nothing needs to happen". That's
fine with me, if that's what you truly like to watch, but personally
I'd rather not watch a film with literally no point, un-interesting
characters, no chemistry at all and an excuse for unintelligent people
to enjoy something that isn't a romantic comedy. Jarmusch will always
refuse to have anything actually happen in his films...it's sad...maybe
he's depressed? 

Oh and before I forget...Jarmusch wrote the script in two and a half
weeks. I'm sorry to say...it shows. The only films I can think of that
were written that quickly and pulled it off were, Do the Right Thing
and Reservoir Dogs. Do the Right Thing had an amazing message and
characters you actually care about and Reservoir Dogs was a great
character study with a REAL ending. 

I do want to thank Jim Jarmusch though. I'm writing my fourth
screenplay right now and I got so bored in the theater that I actually
figured out how to end it. I got some good thinking time. A dark place,
nothing going on, good combination for thinking. Bad combination for
watching a film that's supposed to be very good.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Jarmusch returns to the screen with an immensely pleasing film that
looks extremely simple, but in fact, it's what is not being said that
really is at the center of the picture. Mr. Jarmusch is one director
that loves to work with an economy of everything. His films seem to be
crying for a set decorator, but that is misleading, because it's the
simplicity that seems to work in most cases.

If you haven't seen the film, perhaps you should stop reading here.

At the center of the story is Don Johnston, whose name seems to provoke
in most people a recognition by associating it to the actor, Don
Johnson. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Don is a taciturn
man, who when we meet him is being dumped by his last girlfriend. 

Don Johnston, with his deadpan demeanor, appears to be a man that has
gone through life on auto pilot. In fact, when he receives the letter
that will, in a way, change his life, he doesn't even react. His
solution to the problem is to show this letter to his next door
neighbor, Winston. Little does Don knows, but Winston maps out a plan
to get him involved in the solution of the mystery he is presented. We
accompany Don in a trip of discovery to reacquaint himself with former
lovers who might have been instrumental in sending the pink letter.

Thus we meet Laura, the closet organizer, a widow now, living with a
precocious daughter, Lolita, who seems to have jumped from the
Nabokov's book, in all her precociousness. Then, there is Dora, the
real estate woman who lives in a development in which all the houses
look alike. We meet Carmen, the pet communicator, a sort of animal
analyst who has turned her love interest another way. Finally, we are
given a glimpse of Penny, who couldn't care less to see Don one more
time.

The opening sequence that sets the story in motion is nothing but
perfection. We watch the fateful letter at the beginning when it's
being dropped in the mail box right up to its delivery through Don's
mail slot.

Jim Jarmusch, and his amazing cast have done wonders with this film.
Bill Murray is sensational as the jaded Don Johnston. Once again, this
actor clearly shows he is at the top of the game. Jeffrey Wright, one
of the best young actors working in films and in the theater these
days, makes a valuable contribution as Winston. The women in Don's life
are fantastic. Sharon Stone, Frances Conroy, Julie Delpy, Tilda
Swinton, and Jessica Lange are seen at their best. Finally, two
excellent turns by Alexis Dziena as Lolita and Chloe Sevigny as an
assistant to Carmen.

Mr. Jarmusch has created a film that says a lot about how modern
relationships are being practiced these days.
<|_=00=_|>
Broken Flowers - Jim Jarmusch Jim Jarmusch writes movies. I don't mean
he writes screenplays - though he does. No, he uses images the way a
poet uses words. No waste. Every image carries weight. Resonates.
Certainly his two most recent movies, Coffee and Cigarettes and now
Broken Flowers are visual poems. Broken Flowers, unlike C&C is a
narrative poem. It is a short, beautifully composed short story with
Bill Murray's Don Johnston - with a 't' - at its heart.

In a sadly now lost interview, Steve McQueen once said a man should
feel as much as possible and show as little as possible. This
unfashionable conception deserves deeper examination than our
contemporary conventional wisdom is likely to give it, but it sums up
Don Johnston literally to a 't'. However subtle, Bill Murray's humour
is delightfully accessible. The deeper emotions of his more serious
characters are harder to read. And his extraordinary, almost unique
'innerness' as an actor makes you work hard. In a superb performance in
an excellent film, it is a fine judgement as to whether he might have
given us just a little bit more colour and shading. We can see only too
well why the women in his life kept leaving him but he makes us work a
bit to see why they would have been with him in the first place.
Murrray has cornered the market in men who can give but not take - Bob
Harris in Lost In Translation and now Don Johnston in Broken Flowers.
In a key piece of dialogue early on, as current partner Sherry (Julie
Delpy), follows the other women in Don's life - out of it - he asks
"what do you want Sherry?" She replies "what do you want Don?" And he's
stumped. One feels Sherry would settle for any answer but not for none.

When he receives an unsigned letter from an ex-girlfriend, amateur
sleuth neighbour Winston (Jeffrey Wright) cajoles Don onto a reverse
road trip of his life. The distinctive typed missive, addressed in red
writing on a pink envelope, excites Winston's forensic aspirations and
informs Don that his hitherto unmarried, unparented life actually
created an unknown son 20 years ago, For Winston this is an intriguing
mystery to be unravelled. For a reluctant Don it draws him into
revisiting his former selves through the women he once either loved, or
bedded; or (it is left unclear), perhaps both.

Broken Flowers, although like C&C, visually poetic in form and style,
is more short story in content. So simple, pared down and explicitly
existential in spirit, it brings Camus to mind. Pretentious thought
that may sound, Jarmusch's poetic visual style has all the direct
simplicity and philosophical resonance of Camus' prose. Asked for some
'fatherly' wisdom, Don apologetically replies, "The past is gone - I
know that. And the future is still to come. So I guess there is just
now." Outside the context of this elusive and allusive film, these
remarks sound like a banal tautology. But there's the art. Jarmusch's
art. His simple film 'language' resonates with feeling and, unusually
for movies - ideas. Poetic. And if philosophical ideas seem a fanciful
allusion for simple words, a remark of Wittgenstein's comes to mind
when he observed that despite its apparent form, the expression "War is
war" is no mere tautology.

As in C&C, but to a lesser extent, Broken Flowers has an episodic
'chapter'-like structure. Or more precisely, series of verses. And
Jarmusch's cinematic style has a distinctive literary feel to it. His
editing quietly 'punctuates' each scene and sequence precisely and
without distraction. The full stops and commas of cuts and fades,
provide a clear narrative structure, so that when the camera or the
lens move, or the shot is held, it is precisely the contrast that makes
it work so well. And like a good poet, Jarmusch likes to leave words,
images and phrases hanging in the air. Unexplained. Unresolved.
Jarmusch's great quality as a filmmaker is that his work is
participative - a dialogue with his audience and their own experience.
And like all good poems Broken Flowers will mean different things to
different people even though its basic facts are not in doubt. In his
art, the facts are the starting point, not the end. Want facts as
conclusion, resolution - an answer? Try science. Or Hollywood.

Broken Flowers is, as the old saying has it, a mystery wrapped in an
enigma: Winston's mystery - Don's enigma. Its ending is as satisfying,
as it is unresolved. Murray doesn't so much show us Don's emotional
life, still less act it, rather he lets small glimpses of it escape.
His tears over the ex-girlfriend who died in a car crash; his sense of
failure about Sherry; his warmth and understated friendship with
Winston and his family. But poignantly, we see he wants to have had a
son. Wants them to find each other. Murray superbly insinuates to us a
man full of feeling who is bemused by his own inability to find a way
to let it out. As in many of his characterisations - a genuinely
tragi-comic figure.

Zettel 2005
<|_=00=_|>
It would be hard for me to recommend this film to some people, even if
as a particular film-goer as myself it kept me in my seat as it went by
with its deliberate (or slow as most would put it) pace. For an actor
like Bill Murray, this is a 180 turn from his classic comedy roles in
Caddyshack and Ghostbusters (both films I love for his style of quick
witted, instantly quotable lines)- this time, as I've read, he and
writer/director Jim Jarmusch took the subtle, subdued approach of
Buster Keaton, but done all Murray's way. He continues the sort of
'phase' he's been in starting with Lost in Translation and going
somewhat into The Life Acquatic- now his is reactions which make up the
best parts, and the occasional zingers work well against the supporting
cast.

The reason one might consider Broken Flowers as Jarmusch's most
'mainstream' film is because it is filmed a little more like one, very
steady camera-work, and seeming a little more like a Hollywood type
film with the cast (Sharon Stone, Francis Conroy, Jessica Lange, Tilda
Swinton, Chloe Sevigny, Jeffrey Wright among others). And the story
seems like something one might find in a conventional romantic comedy-
Murray plays Don Johnston (not Johnson, as a running joke in the film),
a fading Don Juan type who is very well off but also rather isolated
with himself. Around the same time his current girlfriend leaves him,
he finds a mysterious pink colored letter in a pink envelope. Wright,
playing an amusing neighbor of Don's, sets him up to go on a search to
find the long lost son the letter alludes to. He reluctantly goes on
the search.

What is interesting about a filmmaker like Jarmusch, with only a few
others I can think of, is that his pace and style and way the film
unfolds, my heartbeat never goes too fast or too slow with the rhythm,
and it stays consistent. When the climax to the film comes, it's more
contemplative than exciting. As Don visits the four women, who each
give him something different to offer (if not answering his questions
for the 'mystery'), the comedy kicks in, but as with the scenes with
Wright's character Winston, it's not often 'laugh-out loud' funny, but
the wit is there. Some of it is surprising (the daughter character,
Lolita, brings a big laugh), and just strange (Lange's job as an
'animal communicator'), but it's often not so much about hitting for
big punches as for more realistic ones. We get long (some might say too
long) breaks as Don drives in his car, and then something more comes
along. For me, at least, it was rather compelling in a minimalist way,
which is what Jarmusch is a master of.

Some have said that the ending was unfulfilled, that it didn't serve a
purpose and left the film with unanswered questions. I found the ending
to really be even more fulfilling, perhaps on an existential or some
kind of unspeakable level, than something that would typically be
cooked up in Hollywood. As Murray stand in the street, the camera
moving around him and stopping on him, it had me thinking and finally
feeling some emotional attachment to Don. Early in the film, he's
almost too subdued, and has an upper-middle class status that brings a
detachment like with a lead in an Antonioni film. He says he's content
with being on his own doing whatever, but by the end he has come full
circle. Murray plays these last couple of scenes wonderfully, bringing
one to see that the film is not about the usual solving of a mystery of
'who is my son'.

It's about searching, and finding a connectedness to people. This,
again, may sound off-putting to people who just want to be simply
entertained, and it may be boring &/or pretentious to the core
mainstream fans of Murray. But his performance, and Jarmusch's
direction, makes its best way in a realm of its own, taking a simple
premise and giving it an original take, and substance, and a specific
rhythm. In other words, Jarmusch fans need not be frightened that it
looks less 'artsy' than a film like Dead Man or Mystery Train, and for
those who loved Murray's work in Lost in Translation will find a
similar wavelength to cling to.
