
So this movie was not for everyone, I personally thought this movie was
great.

An exorcism movie that does not involve the devil is refreshing to see,
and the experience of the movie is played out quite well in the pacing
and how events unfold. The fact it features the Jewish religion over
Christianity is a very nice touch, one you rarely see in a movie of
this style as most people hear exorcism and assume the Catholic church.
While many may complain it is too slow, and other such things let me
ask you this question.

What were you expecting from a movie that was purely plot driven?

Personally the acting was also great, I could empathize with the
characters and understand them. The father was just worried about his
daughter, who hid her signs of the problem well until things got bad. I
mean when it really showed and she was hitting the kid at school, that
looked like something that night happen in school over even something
small like a favorite pencil or item. There was in my opinion no weak
performances in the acting, coupled with a solid and strong story makes
for quite a good movie.

Lastly the execution was some of the best I had seen this far, it
flowed and was not jumpy like say the bourne movies. Nothing was out of
place and the movie felt creepy and eerie throughout with all of the
silence that you could almost hear in many parts of it. If your looking
for a truly good movie that will have you walking away satisfied this
is one of them.

It is a well written, acted, and executed movie that while it may seem
slow moving is well worth the watch. Think of it what you will, but I
recommend this movie as one of my top ten movies of 2012.
<|_=00=_|>
The parallels between this film and The Exorcist are obvious even from
the trailers, so I won't go too far into that. Just suffice it to say
that The Possession contains none of the impact or shock value that The
Exorcist has. In short, it's just not as good of a film.

However, in its own right, it's a pretty competent horror movie. The
story of the central characters is kind of clich√©. Husband and wife
have divorced, they share custody of the children, there's a new
boyfriend/girlfriend in the picture, etc. This type of set up is always
convenient when dealing with a "messed up kid" film. That way whatever
is wrong with the child can inevitably be blamed on the fact that the
child is just not dealing well with the break up of his or her parents.
And that's exactly what happens in The Possession; except there is
actually something VERY wrong with the youngest daughter and it has
absolutely nothing to do with her parents. Without giving away too
much, the plot centers around an ancient wooden box the youngest
daughter finds at a yard sale. Of course she wants it, and so she gets
it. And there begins to occur some rather strange phenomena; most of
them downright spooky, a couple kind of hokey.

All in all, I was pleased. This film has got good pacing, decent
acting, and exceptional cinematography. There's not much I can find as
a fault here. If I had to name my major complaint about this and
similar movies it would be this: I'm not thrilled about the influx of
PG-13 horror films. I've a suspicion this is due to a need to bring in
a wider audience (younger viewers/teenagers), and make more money on
ticket sales. Because of this the final product tends to be a little
too watered down for my tastes. The Possession shows a lot of promise,
but I can't help but wish the writers/director would have pushed the
envelope a bit more; fleshed out the story. Then it would have been
great. As it stands now, I'll just say it's a "good" little horror
film. Nothing that will be talked about this time next year, but I
consider my money well spent.

My rating: 6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Possession (2012) 

*** (out of 4) 

Extremely well-made and well-acted horror film about a recently
divorced father (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) who buys his youngest daughter
(Natasha Calis) a seemingly innocent box at a yard sale but soon the
girl's behavior starts to change. The title pretty much tells you what
happens to the little girl and I'm sure many of you are out there
wondering if we really needed another possession movie. The answer is
yes and especially since this one here turned out so well. I think you
have to give the filmmakers a lot of credit for tackling a familiar
sub-genre and being able to make it work without resorting to cheap,
loud noise scares that seem to be attached to all horror movies today.
I thought there were a lot of reasons why this film worked but one is
the fact that you care about the father and feel his pain for losing
someone close to him. The personal drama is something that THE EXORCIST
used so well and the filmmakers here borrow from that and make sure the
viewer can care about what's going on. Another strong point are the
performances with Jeffrey Dean Morgan doing a fantastic job in the role
of the father. It's rare to see horror films with such strong
performances but Kyra Sedgwick is also strong as the mother. Calis is
terrific in her bit as the young girl who finds herself falling apart.
The limited special effects are good for what they are but we also get
an incredibly effective music score. I didn't care for some of the
style given to the film including the fast cuts to a black screen but
this was just a minor issue. Still, THE POSSESSION gives a shot of
energy to a genre that has so far in 2012 delivered one bomb after
another.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the allegedly haunted Dybbuk box, 'The Possession' is a fairly
interesting watch, that works in parts & Jeffrey Dean Morgan Delivers A
Super Performance! He's in Complete Form this time around! 

'The Possession' Synopsis: A young girl buys an antique box at a yard
sale, unaware that inside the collectible lives a malicious ancient
spirit. The girl's father teams with his ex-wife to find a way to end
the curse upon their child.

'The Possession' works in parts. The second-hour is pretty good, but
the First-Hour is slow & not very engaging. The Climax stands out, its
spooky & nicely done. Juliet Snowden & Stiles White's Screenplay works
in parts. Ole Bornedal's Direction is a plus-point. Cinematography &
Editing are good. 

Performance-Wise: Jeffrey Dean Morgan is up for top honors. He's in
Complete Form this time around! Kyra Sedgwick is decent. Natasha Calis
delivers aptly. Madison Davenport & Matisyahu support well. 

On the whole, 'The Possession' is a fairly interesting watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I was on holiday visiting my friend in Sacramento, California, and we
decided to go to the movies. Our choice was between this movie and
another called 'The Apparition'. We opted for this one as creepy kids
always seem to make a horror movie much more appealing. Usually, I
avoid possession films. I can't even force myself to consider 'the
exorcist' a horror classic. I just think possession and exorcism films
are always poorly done and are slightly altered versions of each other.
However, seeing the trailer of this film beforehand made me want to see
this movie and again, the little girl Emily 'Natasha Calis' drew me in.
I thought this film had an interesting storyline which kept me gripped
throughout and superb performances by the cast, especially Natasha
Calis who portrays the little girl Emily who is possessed throughout
the film. Without giving away any spoilers, I felt the ending was well
done and made me leave the theatre thanking the screenplay writer for a
non-stereotypical ending - well done! This film is definitely worth a
watch. I may even buy it on DVD when it's released. It's not your
average 'lets walk down the stairs backwards and puke over a priest'
possession movie. It's well acted, well written and well worth a see.
It has some jumpy moments for those who aren't desensitised to the ways
of a horror movie but mainly it's gripping and you want to find out
what's in that box.. GO SEE IT! I hope to see the young cast in some
more films in the future! Loved it!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very good for a horror film

It starts off well and you have very good characters, the father in the
film is a very good actor.

Overall the directing of the movie is excellent, all the pieces fit
together well and you understand the story. A lot of horror films fail
in the directing as things are mismatched and no one knows what is is
going on.

It is a very well told story that develops into lots of thrills and
scares

It is not a gory film which is very good but it keeps you entertained
all the way through

The characters are excellent and interesting, the acting is good so
this keeps you gripped all the way through

Overall an enjoyable film and does the job of a good horror film
<|_=00=_|>
'THE POSSESSION': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

A Jewish exorcism film for a change! This one revolves around Jewish
folklore of the Dybbuk Box (which began in the 1920s), a box used to
contain an evil Jewish demon. A father and his two daughters buy the
box at a garage sale and one of the young girls becomes possessed by
the demon inside it. The film was produced by Sam Raimi (and released
through his horror studio 'Ghost House Pictures') and directed by Ole
Bornedal. It was written by Juliet Snowden and Stiles White (who also
co-wrote the Sam Raimi produced horror film 'BOOGEYMAN' and the Nicolas
Cage thriller 'KNOWING') and stars Jeffrey Dean Morgan and Kyra
Sedgwick. The movie plays out like a pretty routine possession movie
but it does have some pretty nice scares in it and the dybbuk storyline
is interesting. 

The film is based on an article by LA Times reporter Leslie Gornstein,
called 'Jinx in A Box', about the history of the Dybbuk Box which was
brought to America by a Holocaust survivor and passed around to various
people who all reported horrific experiences from it. In the film a
young girl named Em (Natasha Calis) finds the box at a garage sale and
asks her dad, Clyde (Morgan), to buy it for her. Clyde was recently
divorced from his wife, Stephanie (Sedgwick), and has his two
daughters, Em and Hannah (Madison Davenport), for the weekend. Em takes
the box home and opens it and soon strange occurrences begin happening.
This causes further conflict between Clyde and Stephanie as Clyde is
blamed for his daughter's strange behavior. Clyde soon discovers Em's
possessed and learns the history of the box. He then travels to a local
Hasidic community for help and enlists the assistance of a young jew
named Tzadok (Matisyahu), who is able to perform exorcisms.

Bornedal also directed (as well as wrote) the Danish thriller
'NIGHTWATCH' and it's 1997 American remake of the same name (although
Steven Soderbergh rewrote that screenplay) starring Ewan McGregor. He
also directed and co-wrote the 2007 Danish horror film 'THE SUBSTITUTE'
(also released by Ghost House Pictures, in America). I'm not familiar
with his work but I really liked his directing on this film. It has
that classic campy horror feel to it, with touches that had to be
influenced by Sam Raimi (as it often feels like one of his films). The
movie is often funny, in seemingly unintentional ways, but it's never
too over the top. The comedy never takes you out of the creepy mood of
the film and although the script is routine the film is always
intriguing, thanks to the excellent filmmaking. Morgan is good in the
lead and Natasha Calis is also impressive in the pivotal creepy role.
To many it might just seem like a bad horror film but if you're a fan
of the genre you'll probably get a big kick out of it's style and the
enormous fun it has with the material.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Hh6duVlIQk
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen a lot of horror films that have been kinda OK. But this, I
mean. I honestly didn't think it would be that bad. THAT bad. You would
actually think that it was a comedy, by the end of the film, people
were actually laughing so hard, the whole cinema was laughing together.
Not even kidding.

It was just so stupid. The acting wasn't bad but everything else was
stupid.

1. Pointless symbolism? Kind of? (I don't even...) The moths for
example. Appeared in the movie about 5 times as if they were really
important and it wasn't even explained as to why they were SO key to
the plot. What was the point if it wasn't going to be explained what
their purpose was. Just threw them in there for the hell of it. Maybe
the director just likes moths. 2. Characters that are completely
oblivious and just dumb. Don't get the hint till about 20 mins from the
end. Yeah your child is just going through a phase...a phase of raw
steak eating, being obsessed over some stupid old box, stabbing you,
becoming the moth whisperer, looking like they're on deaths door. Yeah,
just a phase. I went through that too once. 3. The ending. I stopped
caring about the 'plot' at this point.Daughter possessed, dad
possessed, all possessed together! Yay! Exorcise my child? Here, take
my expensive as hell bmw! I don't need a car anymore. Randomly getting
hit by a lorry. Woops. R.I.P Jewish exorcist man, you will be missed.

Don't waste your money if you think you're going to get horror. But if
you like comedy, I strongly recommend this. I laughed so hard I cried.

1 star for the acting.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge fan of the exorcism movie genre and this movie just simply
did not meet my expectations.

Now, before I go on to say that this movie was all around bad I will
first start off my saying it was not. The opening sequence was a great
way to set the tone of what is to be a good film. The possessed child,
Emily delivered her character very well and will always remain
memorable, sort of like that of Isabelle Fuhrman (Orphan). whilst
watching this film I couldn't help but be scared, the film delivers at
being suspenseful and scary but not horrific. Special effects makeup,
short demonic dialogue, the death of only 1 character and extreme harm
to 2 characters does not in my opinion define horror. Lacking
originality during the ending of the film I was reminded of "The Devil
Inside" with the exorcism performed in the desolate hospital and the
demon flipping out causing harm to her loved ones and the person
performing the exorcism along with the demonic transitioning from the
Daughter to the Father. In comparison "The Devil Inside", was from
Mother to Daughter.

Originality in this film came from the Jewish exorcist. Not done
before, every one of this films predecessors turn to Christian exorcist
to perform exorcisms, so that was a plus. As well as the families
struggles which remains relate-able to all viewers in some shape, way
or form.

I won't spend to much time with this any longer but I did like the film
as an overall production just expected a little more based on the
teasers and trailers especially since the first Exorcist movie (Linda
Blair) still remains a perfect 10 therefore, the best in its genre. I
only wish that production companies would stop being so hasty to
release films that just does not live up to its expected genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Hello readers. This is my first review of a movie on here and I was
inspired to do it after reading petit76 negative view on the film. I am
also an avid horror fan pretty much seen them all and I thought this
film was excellent! Acting was very good and the storyline is as good
as you will get with horror films nowadays which is such hard genre to
be original with.

Thats the problem with IMDb nowadays almost every film gets a negative
review. This was a most enjoyable horror with some nice fright scenes
and I would recommend it to anyone with a spare 90 Min's. A solid 8/10
from me folks enjoy!!
