
I saw this one tonight at a screening, and I wasn't entirely
disappointed. I'll be honest -- there's nothing new in The Messengers.
It's all been seen before in earlier, more original movies. This one is
kind of a "best of" reel of some good ideas from other horror movies.
If you're looking for something original and scary, this isn't it. If
you're looking for a little jumpy fun, I can't say this one is a miss.
By virtue of the "good ideas" being good, they work. What it lacks in
originality it makes up for in assembling them in a reasonably coherent
manner.

My only real gripe is that Dylan McDermitt looks about as out of place
working the fields of his farm as any actor I can think of. They could
have at least tried a LITTLE bit harder casting that part.

Think The Birds + Ju On + Amityville Horror + Sixth Sense.
<|_=00=_|>
There is evidence to suggest that children... would really rather watch
something else.

As suspense/horror movies go, this one isn't amazing. Its hardly
original; more like Hitchcock's The Birds meets Verbinski's The Ring.
Honestly. Its a perfect combination of the two.

Personally I'd recommend watching the afore mentioned separately, each
being better alone than this film. Really, the only thing it seems to
have in abundance OTHER than unoriginality, is cheap pop-out scares. I
mean, yeah, its kinda fun the first time or two... but after about half
a dozen, you start to wonder if there is anything else to be had.

The acting wasn't entirely horrible, I'll admit to that much. The
Turner kids who played Ben are certainly entertaining to watch, giving
a cute contrast to the grungy atmosphere of the movie. Cancer Man...
wait... no, sorry, William Davis could have done better in my opinion,
as could Miller... but considering the type of movie this is, one
doesn't have a lot of room to nitpick.

As a quick side note, I DO commend this movie for not being
gratuitously gory. Its rare to find modern movies in this genre that
don't blatantly use blood and guts to invoke fear.

All in all, this movie isn't the worst of its kinda, but it is in no
way the best. If you want cheap, minimal-gore thrills that will make
you jump, go see it. If you're looking for a deeper, more
thought-provoking thriller... I strongly recommend looking elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
I won't lie to you, I enjoyed this movie. Yes, it was rather generic.
Yes, it borrowed some plot points from other movies. And yes, there
were way too many crows. Yet despite all the negative I continued to
hear about it, I went and saw it anyways, and I'm glad I did.

Many plot points, such as a haunted house in the middle of nowhere,
parents not listening to their kids, and ghosts out for revenge are
ideas that Hollywood has used and recycled more times than a person can
count. However, The Messengers manages to put these together into one
movie, without going for too much at once. Certain scenes were rather
predictable, so I won't claim that the movie really innovates on any of
the standard horror elements, but there are plenty of moments that had
me jump in my seat, and had the female members of the audience
squealing and clutching their boyfriends.

Overall I felt at the end of the movie that, while not amazing, it was
worthy of my time and money to see with a couple friends on a lazy
afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this movie on opening night. I read some other user comments
which convinced me to go see it... I must say, I was not impressed. I'm
so unimpressed that I feel the need to write this comment to spare some
of you people some money.

First of all "The Messengers" is very predictable, and just not much of
a thriller. It might be scary for someone under 13, but it really did
nothing for me. The climax was laughable and most of the audience left
before the movie's resolution.

Furthermore the acting seemed a little superficial. Some of the
emotional arguments between the family were less convincing than the
sub-par suspense scenes.

If you've seen previews for this movie, then you've seen most of the
best parts and have a strong understanding of the plot. This movie is
not worth seeing in the theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
If you aren't expecting some super-scary or gross film, just a mild
ghost-type story, this fits the bill just fine. That's all I expected
and I entertained for an hour-and-a-half. Is this some award-winning
film? No, Is is genuinely scary? No, but it isn't anywhere near as bad
as all these reviews say it is here, either.

What I liked best about this movie was the photography. It was
stylishly filmed and I enjoyed the bold colors, decent direction and
nice rural scenery. Who doesn't like looking at large groups of
sunflowers?

I had no trouble with any of the characters, either. Since it was
partly one of those "you don't listen to me," teen girl flicks, I
expected some snotty kid was Kirsten Stewart was fine as 16- year-old
"Jess." Dylan McDermott and Penelope Ann Miller played nice enough
parents, too. 

The twist near the end was good after that was revealed, you got the
normal clich√©s with the climactic action scene. That was kind of
cheesy, I admit, but most of the film was just fine with me. For what I
expected, I have no complaints. It's a decent flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think that I would completely write off the Pang brothers,
Oxide and Danny, as they don't completely go into the self-indulgent
post-modernism that has panged, no pun intended, the horror filmmakers
of late. Only once or twice they jump into 'Saw' territory. But even
having not seen the majority of the Japanese horror movies that have
give rise to the over-abundance of 'ghosts-in-my-house' wave (and,
likewise, to their American counterparts), there isn't too much with
surprise or shocks in The Messengers. 

I'm sure they're self-conscious of the films they're paying
homage/ripping off (the one scene involving the crows and their
rendezvous with John Corbett's character is like a chummier mash of The
Birds and North by Northwest; Shining and Close Encounters references
seem a little more than clear to me too), yet they also succumb to
having their film be really affect-less. It's never too stupid though;
I didn't have a disliking toward any one character, with the exception
being maybe towards the end with Corbett (I don't think I'm spoiling
much there), and it's the sort of typical
family-moves-into-a-creepy-house story that decides to hit the usual
bases without going rapidly wrong on the marks.

But there's also the muddle that comes in dealing with the supernatural
side of things, amid the average scares of 'what did I hear in the
other room, I'll go check'. For one thing, the variations on who the
ghosts and demons in the house are- if they're the family that used to
live there, or if they might be the whatevers that killed off the
family striking back at the new family in the house. There's fair
acting from the family (Kristen Stewart of Panic Room fills in the
teenage-girl niche, and there's competent work from McDermott and
Miller; Colbert is a little creepy, but I guess that's the point;
William B. Davis's bit part is the best real surprise of the movie),
but it's all at the mercy of a standard script that might've been
better, damn if I say it, as a half hour TV episode or something. Only
sometimes, too, are there some potential unintentional laughs to be
had, mostly towards the climax and with the very randomly placed crows
that can only come in a pretty inexplicable flick such as this. 

In the end, the Messengers is nothing new, and won't contribute much at
all to the horror genre at large, but I wouldn't throw it in my 'I hate
this movie so much' bin either, as it only continues to that
non-threatening realm of the kinda-creepy PG-13 haunted house picture.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, the editing of this film consisted of one major flaw which I
don't understand how was missed - you consistently see the overhead
microphones bobbing in and out of the film. The first time I saw it I
just said "well, mistakes happen" and brushed it off. After about the
10th time, it began to get incredibly irritating and distractingly
funny. If you haven't seen the film yet, try counting how many times
you see the microphone; might make for pretty interesting game.

Now, about the film. This movie started out with the makings of a
pretty solid "ghost" story; however, the plot twist at the end just
ruined it completely. You begin watching the movie under the
assumption, alluded by the TV commercials, that the haunted house
consists of ghosts which can only be seen by children; particularly
young children, which makes it even more freaky as they will be unable
to effectively warn the family of the impending danger. The opening
scene did a good job of misleading the audience that this would remain
the premise of the film. **(SPOILER)** The movie starts with the family
being stalked and ultimately killed by an "unseen" force in the home.
The idea that only children can see these ghosts is set in motion when
the daughter, at the beginning of the movie, asks her little brother to
tell her where "it" is right before "it" grabs her and drags her
screaming into the cellar. The young boy also witnesses this supposedly
"unseen force" kill his mother after she tells him to hide under the
bed. After his family is killed, the boy attempts to run and hide only
to be snatched away as well.

As I said, this movie started out with the makings of a pretty spooky
movie in which the family would be stalked by an "unseen force" with
their only hopes of survival resting on sightings by a two-year-old.
This began to be ruined less than halfway into the film as the daughter
began to see the ghosts as well; completely ruining the "only children
can see" illusion set forth by the commercials and opening scene.

Regardless of this, the movie didn't actually get "ruined" until the
plot twist at the end. In which the man who had been helping the family
cultivate the farm turns out to have been the man responsible for
killing the family at the beginning of the movie. All of a sudden,
after being attacked by a swarm of crows, the man snaps and tries to
kill the mother, daughter, and son while having a psychotic breakdown
in which he believes them to be HIS family; which he killed at the
beginning.

The whole plot twist at the end just created a whole list of unsolved
questions and left me going wtf. First, why was the family's souls
trapped in a house? If the director was going for a Ju-On (The Grudge)
approach in which the family, after dying in a fit of rage, would haunt
the house and kill whoever enters, why did the haunting stop after the
father was "captured" by the ghosts of his family? If the ghosts only
wanted to kill the man that killed them, why were they attacking the
new family? Here's another one for you. It takes several months from
the time you sow seeds until the plants fully blossom in time for
harvest. This tells me that the man who killed his family at the
beginning, the man that the ghosts apparently had a grudge with the
whole movie, was living on the property for months. During all this
time, why didn't the ghosts just go kill him? 

This movie included a lot of clich√©d "horror movie" scares as well as
an obvious combination of ideas from other horror movies. However, I'm
telling ya, this movie still could've pulled off okay if not for the
plot twist at the end. It's like they just ran out of their budget and
just threw together something for an ending. For this movie to have
been a success, they should've stuck with the "only children can see
them" premise and ended with either the family barely getting away or
being killed off like the family at the beginning (would've opened the
door for possible sequel,too).
<|_=00=_|>
"The Messengers" revolves around a young teenager, Jess (Kristen
Stewart), who moves out into rural North Dakota with her dad (Dylan
McDermott), her mother (Penelope Ann Miller), and her little brother,
to a sunflower farm. The house they move into is run-down and very
spooky, and Jess isn't happy about the entire situation. From the
moment they arrive to the house, Jess begins to have strange
experiences and see very bizarre things. Her younger brother also sees
things that nobody else can, and Jess is concerned. A man who shows up
out of nowhere (John Corbett) to work at the farm, and the family
becomes pretty close with him as well. But the increasingly frightening
supernatural experiences that only Jess seems to see get more and more
violent, and seem to have a relation to something that happened in the
house years ago.

With some obvious similarities to "The Grudge" (and just about every
ghost story you can think of), "The Messengers" is an extremely
derivative ghost tale that manages to hold itself up without becoming
unbearably watchable. The story itself is your typical haunted-house
yarn - family moves into house, strange experiences begin that can only
be seen by the children or our main character, seems to have a relation
to a horrible incident that happened in the house years before. Full of
dark and shadowy rooms, ghost-like figures with ridiculously
orchestrated jerky movements (reminiscent of "The Grudge"), mostly
useless "jump" scares, and a small child character who can see things
others can't, "The Messengers" is clich√©d, no doubting that. I wasn't
afraid once during this film, because I knew when to expect all of the
scary moments. Maybe it's because I've seen films like this one too
many times, but all I can say for sure is that I didn't find this film
scary.

While this film is heavily clich√©d (which is probably it's strongest
negative point), I still managed to enjoy the majority of it. While the
story is typical, it managed to keep my attention and I was at least
interested. The cinematography really soared in this film. Everything
was very nice looking and the atmosphere was great. The backdrop of the
house and the surrounding land really made it feel like it was in the
complete middle of nowhere, and the old house itself, while it was your
typical haunted house, was admittedly spooky looking. The acting was
really good for the most part. Kristen Stewart is the lead and is very
talented and convincing. I'd previously seen her in "Panic Room" at a
younger age, and even then she was good. I can see her going places.
Dylan McDermott and John Corbett are both very good as well, and
Penelope Ann Miller, while not giving the best performance of the cast,
was decent enough. I can't say anything too horrible about the acting
though.

Overall, "The Messengers" is your typical, clich√©-ridden modern ghost
story, and it borrows so much from other recent films of it's type
(which a lot of these films seem to do), that it becomes another one of
those "we've seen it all before" horror movies. It doesn't offer much
of anything new for the genre, but it was at least watchable. If you
want some cheap scares and a very few number of eerie moments, you'll
probably enjoy this. But mostly, this film is one big clich√©. Enjoyable
if you don't take it too seriously though, but just average. 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Messengers" is a been there, done that, horror about a family who
move to a spooky house in the middle of nowhere and then strange things
begin to happen. It sounds like you have seen this film before yet the
story still keeps you interested and in some cases even intrigued.

A family move from Chicago to an eerie, abandoned farmhouse in North
Dakota to start a fresh and to start growing sunflowers on its land,
aw. Then the teenager daughter Jess (Kristen Stewart, Panic Room)
begins to sense strange happenings from the moment they move in,
something just isn't quite right, her toddler brother, Ben, also begins
to notice creaking noises and following shadows and the mother
(Penelope Ann Miller) just can't get rid of THAT stain on the wall.
However, the family don't seem to communicate so everybody just gets on
with it without mentioning the strange goings on to other family
members. Tut.

Roy the dad, (Dylan McDermott, Miracle on 34th St) then hires Burwell,
a man who has literally came from nowhere to help on the farm, just as
long as Roy throws in a free dinner. Mysterious Burwell (Aidan from Sex
and the City) comes complete with sideburns a beard and a backwards
cap, yes, a backwards cap. They are all getting on nicely, the
sunflowers are growing, Jess has made a friend in Bobby but mum Denise
just can't get THAT stain off the wall. So where did Burwell come from?
Please enter ghostly Gollum like figures, shrieking violins, pecking
crows and a lot of jumpy movements. 

There isn't much new with "The Messengers" but with the film changing
which character it's going to focus on every 5 minutes it still manages
to keep you entertained and even concerned in what is going to happen.
However, we know what is going to happen, don't we? You know what's
round the corner, yet you still manage to jump, and I still managed to
enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>
After having problems in Chicago, the Solomon family moves to a remote
North Dakota farmhouse to start anew, but their attempts at an idyllic
farming life is disrupted when their teen daughter Jess (Kristen
Stewart) and her 3-year-old brother Ben start seeing and being attacked
by supernatural beings who won't allow them to live in peace.

The Messengers starts off decently although it eventually becomes a
generic horror film that's a lot more humorous than frightening. After
reading the premise, I thought this could have been a decent movie
since it sounded creepy and it held potential. Unfortunately, the film
didn't live up to its potential although I should have expected this
since the trailer was awful. The screenplay was probably the worst part
about it. It was full of silly sequences and bland dialog. The
characters were not developed at all and most of them were acting like
a bunch of idiots so it was hard to feel sympathy for them.

The directors did a horrible job at building up suspense. They mainly
relied on cheap scares like loud noises and random jumps. The music was
really over the top and it just made it easier for the viewer to
telegraph the next "scary" moment. I also didn't like how they pretty
much just used one location for the whole movie. The house was the
centerpiece of the story and that's where the majority of the filming
took place so it got a little boring after awhile to see the same area.
Also, I didn't like the close-ups of the actors. During a conversation,
the camera would continually jerk from character to another in the span
of five seconds and it got really annoying. The directors did create a
decent atmosphere and they do get some points for making their movie
stylish. However, since we have come a long way in terms of style and
effects, it's not really that hard to make your movie look nice
especially if you are working on a Hollywood film.

The acting was atrocious and if this movie had been released in
December, I'm sure it would have received several Razzie nominations.
Kristen Stewart showed some talent in Panic Room but you wouldn't be
able to tell she has talent by watching her performance in The
Messengers. She was okay at acting scared and that's it. The rest of
the time she was dry and unconvincing. Penelope Anne Miller was just
awful when it came to everything. It sounded like she was reading her
lines and she had some of the worst facial expressions I have ever
seen. Dylan McDermott was just very wooden and he showed almost no
emotion. John Corbett gave the best performance and he had a couple of
good scenes. The twins who played Ben were also decent and managed to
out act many of the adult actors. Overall, this lame horror film is not
worth watching because of it's blandness and lazy film-making. Rating
4/10
