
Lots of like-minded responses here. This film was asinine.

The plot holes weren't just unbelievably silly. They were incredibly
annoying. I registered just to come here and whinge about this pathetic
film.

By the end of the film, you're GLAD those two stupid college kids are
being tortured by the hitcher.

Why would you make yourself known in a dark basement/jail if you
couldn't see the psychotic killer by yelling out nonstop - revealing
your location - AND telling them you have a gun? Why would you be so
stupid and selfish as to hide out in the toilet - where there are three
sane people right outside who look strong enough physically to help you
- when the whole point of you running into the diner is to call 911
(not just to order someone who obviously thinks you're crazy to call
911) and get an ambulance for the guy dying outside? Instead, you waste
all your time getting PAPER TOWELS - which, yeah, are really going to
help?!!! And if your boyfriend was in mortal danger of literally being
pulled in half and you have a gun in your hand, why don't you just try
and shoot him free or shoot at the wheels/engine of the truck? And to
leave the experienced cop stuck to the car after an accident, without a
gun, well exposed to the crazy dude when you're pretty crappy at using
guns yourself to try and kill the bad guy is just unbelievably
annoying. Other situations where the dumbest college kids on earth just
endanger other people, especially members of the police by not
communicating properly with them, and turn the audience against them.

Many other similar plot holes that will drive you crazy. The female
lead was written so badly. She was tragically annoying.

Sean Bean can do so much better.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike many horror fanatics, I have nothing against the trend toward
remakes of classic genre filmsthere are cover songs, so why not cover
movies? But the 2007 embalming of Robert Harmon's 1986 masterpiece The
Hitcher is the kind of mechanical exercise that gives not only remakes
but horror in general a bad name. Witless and pointless, it's
compelling only as a lesson in the importance of style when it comes to
scaring an audience. Though the plot is close enough to the 1986
version to earn a screen credit for that film's scriptwriter, Eric Red,
the execution is so botched that what was terrifying in Harmon's film
becomes coma-inducing in the remake. Like the 1986 version, the new
Hitcher tells the story of a young couple relentlessly pursued by an
unstoppable, completely psychotic killer who frames his prey for
murders he commits. The key difference is that in the original movie
the love interest, played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, didn't come into the
story until late; a significant chunk of the storyline was devoted to a
cat-and-mouse game between two characters, Rutger Hauer's chilling
hitcher, and hapless victim C. Thomas Howell. In the new movie, the
heroes are an item right from the start: college lovers Sophia Bush and
Zachary Knighton hit the road, and after some random babbling that's
evidently supposed to pass for character development, they find
themselves the targets of the psycho hitcher, played by Sean Bean. What
follows is essentially a feature-length chase, as the kids have to
evade the murderer as well as the authorities after the hitcher, in a
hilariously implausible chain of events, makes it look as though they
are responsible for his bloody crimes. The Hitcher is directed by Dave
Meyers, a veteran of music videos, who is to plot and character what
airline workers are to luggage. He excels in individual moments, like
an energetic opening-credits sequence and some well-timed bursts of
violence, but when it comes to connecting these moments into any kind
of involving drama, Meyers and his collaborators don't seem to have the
faintest idea what they're doing. Even though the film is practically
all action, it has no momentum or intensitythe set pieces don't build,
they just pile up on top of each other. There's no terror because
there's no emotional connection to the characters; the noir-ish
doppelganger relationship between Hauer and Howell in the original has
been completely stripped from the narrative, and the lack of
psychological subtext makes Bean silly rather than threatening. Though
the movie is superficially faster paced than the original, it seems
longer because there are no strong characterizations to anchor the
action. It doesn't help that Meyers has one lone weapon in his arsenal
of scare tacticsin the place of suspense, he provides scene after
scene in which the volume goes down really, really low before someone
jumps out with a loud "BOOM!": This isn't film-making, it's shock
treatment. The director also has no apparent understanding of what made
the original film scary. Whereas Harmon mounted Eric Red's audacious
screenplay as a sort of hallucinatory nightmare, Meyers shoots the same
action as though he's directing a beer commercial. There's no sense of
poetry in his images, and the result is that a villain who came across
as a supernatural force of evil personified in the 1986 film just seems
silly herethe plot is absurd, so to play it on a level of literal
reality as Meyers does is a choice that defies common sense. The
decision to turn the movie into a sort of teen romance is equally
mystifying given how few dividends the love story yields. Bush and
Knighton are appealing screen presences, but they have nothing to do
heretheir relationship has no definition or depth, and when the movie
hinges on one of the lovers avenging the other, the violence seems
uninspired and gimmicky because it isn't an extension of any internal
tension. I realize, especially for its target audience, that
complaining about the lack of substance in The Hitcher is a little like
complaining about the lack of musical numbers in The Hills Have Eyes.
But The Hitcher doesn't offer even the most basic payoffs of its
formula. The action sequences are so slick and impersonal that when a
key character is torn to pieces it has all the emotional impact of a
grapefruit being squashed on screen, and so little actually happens in
the movie that when the end credits start to roll it's a little
shocking. As I watched the final fadeout, I was still waiting for the
movie to begin.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot is simple, a couple traveling on a dark and stormy night pick
up a man who was hitch hiking and soon find they should have passed him
by.

The story has been often used but the immediate source for this telling
is a film that starred Rutger Hauer as the title character. Hauer's
John Rider managed to walk the fine line between insanity and reason as
he upped the ante in everything he did in some twisted game that only
he understood. In this remake Sean Bean is the psycho on the loose and
its a wonderfully acted portrayal of a man on the edge of sanity.
Unfortunately he's not very scary. Bean is somehow much to urbane to be
frightening even as he's doing terrible things to people. He's simply
to charming.

Whats worse are the people who pick him up. I hated them from the start
and wanted some one-anyone-to kill them simply so I didn't have to
spend anytime with them. Stupid and vacant they seemed less like people
than the victims Bean kills. C Thomas Howell in the original may have
been a bit of a twit, but I really felt sorry for him as Hauer turned
his life into a living hell, here I felt they had it coming.

Different enough from the original to make comparisons pointless this
film isn't very good on any level and really has no reason to be seen
except for Sean Bean good, but nonthreatening villain
<|_=00=_|>
Need I say more? The first one was actually decent. Now are we going to
remake a movie every 20 years and throw CG at them? How about working
on the script, story, and believability? I stopped counting all the
ridiculousness of this movie. But here's a few examples. Heading east
on a highway to Houston, then in New Mexico, then north to Lake Havasu.
Get an atlas! The 442 odometer kept showing 15509 every time it was
shown, even after driving many miles. The struggle for the motel
bathroom door, are you kidding me? She's holding him out, then when the
door closes it's evident there's no lock on the inside, he can come
right on in? The LT says he's going to take her to a Trauma Center in
Albuquerque then parades the bad guy right in front of her, like that's
not piling on the trauma? The Bible spouting family doesn't pull over
when they fly off the cliff? She doesn't want to initially go back and
pick up the hitcher, but later after they kill someone she wants to go
back to them? Where does it end? There is no backstory on why he is the
way he is, it's just random scenes with absolutely no rhyme or reason.
Like I said, throw CG at the mess and hope people like it. It's an easy
substitute for coherent storywriting, plausibility, and sense. Not even
worth your time if they paid you to see it. Makes FD3 look like a
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
The original was highly enjoyable and Rutger Hauer had never been
creepier.Jennifer Jason Leigh was memorable too,as she always is,even
if she had limited screen time.In the remake they have sped everything
up and added lots of more gore.The gore bit pleases all the
bloodthirsty kids who usually shoot people's heads off in lame
shoot-em-up video-games.More irritating still this one is shot like
some long music video with totally out of place music.Sean Bean better
watch out.Silent Hill was bad enough and he appeared in the ultra-silly
Equilibrium as well.Now this.Fortunately the critics have given
terrible reviews and this abysmal remake really deserves it.If you've
seen the original don't EVER watch this remake.Learn this.Remakes are
in 9 out of 10 cases a lot worse than the originals.Only remakes that
are superior that come to mind is "the Fly" and "the Thing".
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe, my expectations of this film were set too high. Frankly, I
pondered why anyone would want to re-make what many genre fans (and
movie buffs in general) already consider to be a cult-classic. Didn't
anyone learn a thing about what usually happens to those who try to
reinvent a classic (i.e. the poorly attempted re-make of 'Psycho',
anyone?).

For those of you whom have seen the original 1986 'Hitcher', it is best
to leave your experience to that. The characters in this 2007 version
barely conjure up a heartbeat, much-less able to hold the viewers
attention for more than a few mere minutes at a time! 

That is not to say that the lack of dramatic affect is due solely to
sub-par actors. It's complacency and sterileness is mostly due to a
lack of vision and direction, rather than for a lack of competency on
any of the actors behalf. Also, severely lacking is the film's score,
which was a haunting staple in the original version, but which is
barely of notice in this version.

Did the 'Hitcher' require a reattempting? The answer is clear: No. The
producer's of this film also produced the 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre'
reduxs and while those films were successful both artistically as well
in terms of box office dollars, their attempt here is quite
unsuccessful at attempting to recreate the nerve-pounding suspense that
only the original appears to be able to offer.

Do not slow down. Drive past this one and don't even bother taking a
second glance.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this at a preview screening, and I liked it. I think that if
you haven't seen the original and have something against older looking
movies then you will definitely enjoy this. On the other hand, I prefer
the original and felt like society's money would be better spent
actually purchasing the original on DVD (its cheap) then seeing this.
That would be a great F YOU to Hollywood! Another idea would be for
movie theatres to show the original movie for a little less price and
see what kind of results they get.

The movie itself is plenty intense, a decent amount of "boo scares",
quick pace, attractive leads, decent acting (for the most part).
Compared to the rest of the movies being released these days, I would
say this is definitely above par. The only thing that I can't get over
is how much alike the original it was.

There are a couple differences (the girlfriend, and a few others) that
didn't really add anything to the movie at all, and even with those
differences (which you would think could actually change the movie a
lot) a lot of scenes are almost shot for shot the same. Acting wise, I
think the main male actor faired a little better than c thomas
howell... and i like sean bean a lot, but unfortunately he seemed to be
doing a rutger haurer impression the whole time (dunno if that was his
choice, or the filmmakers) Sophia Bush, as attractive as she is... did
not impress me very much acting wise, but she wasn't horrible either.

All in all, I give this a 7, and I would personally give the original
an 8.5. This one did some things better than the original, i think the
original was more intense without feeling as "forced" as this one does
(the level of brutality in movies feels pretty forced lately, you may
understand what i mean, you may not) I honestly think that Hollywood
could make some money if they would retouch some old movies and
re-release them, and advertise them correctly.
<|_=00=_|>
There is 1 good thing in this film Sophie Bush. Having watched the
original Hitcher with the legendary Rutger Hauer i always remember
thinking how creepy the guy was. He was a natural and also pretty much
unknown at the time. This remake however had nothing like the effect of
the original. Yes maybe because I know whats going to happen even
though there are some subtle differences but Sean Bean. I don't think
an actor that well known fits this part. The other annoying thing is
that no matter what happens to the kids in the film, Attacked, accused
of murder blah blah they still continue to their ultimate destination.
Any normal person would ring the police or turn around and go back...
DOH !!!! 

Don't bother in my opinion
<|_=00=_|>
The 1986 version of the Hitcher is still among my favorite road movies
and in this case yet another misguided attempt at a remake. Both movies
feature John Rider fishing for a ride and torturing the feature
characters through and intricate series of frame-ups. The major
elements from the '86 original are all still in tact here from
(SPOILER---STOP HERE IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE ORIGINAL FILMSPOILER)
picking up the Hitcher, kicking him out the door, killing an innocent
family, killing cops, and tearing a featured character in half with a
semi-truck. Really the only change is in the Jim Halsey character
(Zachary Knighton for 2007 and C. Thomas Howell for the '86 version)
with Jim driving out with his girlfriend for spring break rather than
driving someone else's car from Chicago to San Diego. This may seem
like a minor change but in fact changes the film quite a bit and not
for the better.

With many remakes it becomes quite clear the filmmakers don't really
understand the depth of the original material and would rather just
regurgitate plot for the sake of a quick buck. In both films Jim is a
highly moral character and it is the stature of his character that
originally motivates him to pick up the Hitcher. Grace (Sophia Bush)
acts as a little devil on Jim's shoulder; she's not a bad character,
just selfish and fearful. One wonders in a world more controlled or
motivated by fear if she wasn't the more easily associated to character
rather than highly moral character like Jim. This may be why there is
the major shift at the end of the film with (ANOTHER SPOILER YOU'VE
BEEN WARNED) death of Jim in the Semi truck scene.

This dramatic shift also takes away from John Rider's character and
motivations. In the original (MORE SPOILERS IN FACT CONSIDER THIS HOLE
REVIEW A SPOILER AND SAVE SOME TIME) Jim inadvertently draws Nash
(Jennifer Jason Leigh) into John's machinations and gets romantically
involved with her along his arduous journey and meets her demise in the
semi truck scene. Every intricate puzzle piece is laid by the Hitcher
to darken Jim's character. To make Jim just like him theoretically so
that he can leave a bit of himself behind and finally die. The
motivations of John Rider may never been known but it was the depth of
Rutger Hauer's pathos that drove the Hitcher character making him seem
far more complex than it probably appeared on paper. Credit is due
Robert Harmon for his direction in the 1986 version. Unfortunately this
complexity is lacking in Sean Bean's version of the character who seems
to be doing it for kicks more than anything else. Sure he has a death
wish but he doesn't seem to be to broken up about it. In fact he seems
to want to have his fun before he goes and hopes Grace will see it his
way when she finally kills him. He only seems upset when she doesn't.
There are no major turns to Grace's character as there were to Jim's in
the original and you really just want to slap her most of the time for
being such a selfish bitch. Oh well, who needs emotional character
building or deconstructing anyway? The film itself just rushes from one
remake version of an old scene to the next without really showing us
anything new. It is just bigger and shinier. There are some editing
glitches at the beginning and the old magically repairing window that
plagues so many other movies. We could sure save a lot on window
repairs or replacements if we had those movie versions. Scrapes,
cracks, smashes and even bullet holes magically disappear, it is only
when the entire window is smashed away that its done for. Please put
these magic windows on the market if nothing else to save us paying our
deductible and having our insurance payments go up. Magic window aside
there are a few nice nods to the original with some of the old vehicles
showing up in the new version, come on you got to love the old black
T-Bird.

All in all this is an OK film, but with everything that made the first
film work missing, the audience really doesn't have anything to latch
on to or care about. I think a complete rethinking of the original
concept would have been worth it rather than a close remake and Sean
Bean's natural accent probably would have added to the mystique of John
Rider. Never ever have an actor cover up his accent; it just gives him
more to act through. With the small amount of dialog you wonder why
they even bothered to have him cover it up. On the upside the trailer
for Simon Pegg's new film Hot Fuzz ran with the film and looks just as
funny as Shaun of the Dead. There's your silver lining, but silver
really isn't all that expensive so take it for what it's worth.

---RG
<|_=00=_|>
The horror industry has had quite a big boom in the past five years or
so, and most of the horror films you see today are remakes of older
films. Some of them are really good, some of them are atrocious - but
"The Hitcher" is one of the better remakes I've seen. This movie
focuses on Grace (Sophia Bush) and Jim (Zachary Knighton), who are on a
road trip during spring break. While driving one stormy night in the
desert, they almost hit a man who is having car trouble, but speed off
in fear. Later that night, they meet the man who they almost hit at a
gas station, and end up offering him a ride to the nearest motel.
Little do they know, the man who calls himself John Ryder (Sean Bean),
is a maniac, and ends up pulling a knife on the couple. They manage to
escape at the time, but the following day they are terrorized by the
murderous hitchhiker along the highway, and become framed for a series
of killings that he has been committing.

Barely twenty years old, the original "Hitcher" was a great horror
movie that wasn't really in need of a remake - but most of the horror
films that are remade aren't in need of it either, so I suppose that's
irrelevant. I'm glad I saw the original film (just days) before I went
to see this remake, because it was interesting to compare the
similarities and differences between the two. In some instances, this
remake pulls things right out of the 1986 film, but also reworks the
story and adds and removes certain elements. The reworking of the plot
here is done really well - it stays faithful to the original movie
while making it something of it's own as well, and I was happy with the
way that everything was done in the writing department. There was
plenty of action and some great scare moments, so people with short
attention spans (which is probably the majority of this film's primary
audience) will never get "bored" or find themselves unenlightened. The
action and kills were very well executed though and the gore factor is
brought up a few notches from the original, but doesn't go overboard.
The classic chase sequence from the 1986 film is done here very well
and is just as (if not more) exciting than the sequence was in the
original. 

I have to admit, some of the action sequences were a little
far-fetched, but the same goes for the original film too, so I can't
criticize that. The cast wasn't bad. Granted, some of the acting was a
little underdeveloped, but all in all the performances weren't bad.
Sophia Bush plays the heroine, Grace, and while she doesn't give a
great performance, she's likable enough to hold up her role and keep
the audience sympathizing with her. Zachary Knighton plays her
boyfriend, Jim (who is a variation of the original movie's hero), and
is very good. Sean Bean probably gives the best performance though,
playing the menacing John Ryder very well. He has the perfect look for
the role, plus he's a good actor. I thought it would be hard to live up
to Rutger Hauer's great performance, but I was surprised at how well it
was done. 

Overall, "The Hitcher" is one of the better remakes out there. It could
have been better, but not by a whole lot. It doesn't live up to the
original film, but I wasn't expecting it to so I was pleasantly
surprised with the way this film turned out. If you're a fan of the
original, you may or may not want to see this, but I can say that I
really liked the original myself and thought that this was an
above-average remake. 7/10.
