
Screened FRebruary 23 for Australian Media.

There's no reason for me to expect I was going to like Watchmen. I knew
the cast was interesting - Patrick Wilson has made smart film choices
that don't rely on or intentionally subvert his good looks (Hard Candy,
Little Children); Jackie Earle Haley was icky in Little Children (and
I'm old enough to remember him from Breaking Away); Malin Akerman is
cute but 28 Dresses and The Heartbreak Kid do not a superhero make;
Jeffery Dean Morgan, Matthew Goode - ??? And director Zack Snyder did
cool things with zombies in Dawn Of The Dead and made a wild and wacky
movie in 300, which totally indicated his third film was probably going
to be worth a look, but...you know, whatever...

So they all signed up for Watchmen - based on a comic bo...sorry,
graphic novel...that I'd never read and that was coming to theatres
less than a year after Ironman and The Dark Knight had redefined how
good superhero movies could (and should, from here on in) aspire to be.

That Watchmen has turned out to be the most complex, exhilarating and
deeply-moving fantasy film since Terry Gilliam's Brazil surprises
nobody on Earth more than me - and, man, did it surprise.

In equal measure, it is a) an inspired vision of an alternate world
that echoes but redefines our own existence; b) a subversive yet
bracingly humanistic exploration of the role of the superhero in modern
literature, c) a supremely adult take on the fetishistic pull of the
heightened existence that life as a saviour of society creates, and d)
a wildly exciting adventure story that turns normal people into
exaggerated victims of their own creation and then back into mere
humans.

An exploration of the plot would reveal more vast themes, but at this
early stage of its release I don't want to risk lessening the
experience for anyone.

I can reveal this - Billy Crudup as Dr Manhattan and Jackie Earle Haley
as Rorschach create characters every bit as captivating (and deserving
of Oscar recognition) as Heath Ledger's Joker; Malin Akerman makes an
entrance to the world of superhero timelessness that will be the
fantasy of every teenage boy, aged 15 to 50; and from the flawless art
direction, set design and special effects to a mesmerising soundtrack,
Watchmen is a film that revels in the perfection of minor details.

Be warned - those expecting Spiderman-like teen-angst or Fantastic
Four-like silliness will be stunned, perhaps not quite sure of what
they have found. Watchmen is an extraordinarily mature, risky project
for Hollywood to role the dice on, especially given similarly-complex
explorations of social collapse and vigilantism (V For Vendetta, most
specifically) have failed to do blockbuster numbers.

But Watchmen is something special and deserving of analysis and
discussion. As bold an attempt at commercial film-making as I can
remember, Watchmen is an undeniably unique movie experience - rich,
perverse, violent and resonant.
<|_=00=_|>
For over 25 years now, I have cited Blade Runner as my favorite movie
of all time. After seeing Watchmen, I may have to reconsider.

First, I'm glad I went to see the movie alone. I've heard so many
comments focused on a blue dick, or the length of the movie, or some
other such nonsense, that I'm sure watching it with someone would have
been a constant barrage of commentary and complaint. And no, that's not
Javier Bardem. 

Yes, the movie is long; nearly three hours. But, unlike the dreadfully
insipid Titanic, at the end of this movie I wasn't asking for those
three hours of my life back. And, as with all such movies, you must be
able to look beyond the literal.

Watchmen is iconic and iconoclastic, deconstructionist and revisionist,
laden with allegory and allusion. Consider, for example, the character
Ozymandias. I'm wondering how many people who viewed the film ever even
heard of Percy Bysshe Shelley's poem by the same name. The character
even quotes the poem on a plinth in his Antarctic lair. The allusion is
amazing. Here's the full quote;

And on the pedestal these words appear -- "My name is Ozymandias, king
of kings: Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" Nothing beside
remains. Round the decay Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare The
lone and level sands stretch far away.'

Clearly one must see the allusion to the work, in this case, of a
superhero who hopes to leave mankind a lasting legacy, but realizes in
the back of his mind that everything is eventually lost in time.
Ozymandias was the first poem I ever examined from an expositional
point of view, and I was blown away. The use of it in this movie is
equally impactful.

Then there is Dr. Manhattan, named, of course, for the Manhattan
Project, which yielded the atomic bomb. His character is an allegory
for God, and his relationship with man mirrors the apparent detachment
with which God sees suffering in the world He created. The deity
reference is reinforced often, and one thinks of Oppenheimer's citation
of the Bhagavad-Gita, in which Vishnu takes on a godly form and says,
"Now, I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds."

In an expository scene in the second act, Dr. Manhattan has a sort of
recollection of his life. His account is dizzyingly elliptical, since
he does not see time as linear the way others do. This scene has the
lyrical feel of my favorite piece of fiction, Alan Lightman's almost
unbearably beautiful Einstein's Dreams, and the reference to Einstein
cannot be ignored.

But the real beauty of Watchmen is the moral diversity of its
superheroes. Each is flawed in different ways, allowing us to inhabit
different ethical perspectives, intellectually at least, and witness
their consequences. Everything from Rorshach's refusal to compromise,
which makes him a doomed fugitive, to the ultimate compromise
envisioned by Ozymandias, who can dispassionately evaluate scenarios
where millions of lives are sacrificed, calls into question our most
cherished beliefs. Where does it leave you? Well, that's for you to
decide.

From a purely entertainment perspective, Watchmen is stunning. The
visuals are state of the art, and do not suffer from the sort of mental
rejection I have for some movies that present too many special effects
to swallow at once as reality. And Watchmen doesn't suffer from
Hollywood's apparent fascination with camp in comic book movies. Camp
works to some degree in Spiderman, since he's a somewhat humorous
character to begin with. But the excess of camp rendered the Fantastic
Four sequel unwatchable. Watchman proves that superheroes can use more
subtle forms of humor, such as irony, without devolving into camp for
cheap laughs.

And the music, oh, the music. If you didn't grow up in the 60's and
70's, you will surely miss some of the impact, but don't worry. Even a
second hand recollection of such iconic tunes will suffice. I am
reminded of the painfully awful Across the Universe, which couldn't
even pull together a decent movie built around the greatest catalog in
modern music. Watchmen does it in spades.

I LOL'd, I cried. The people in the theatre applauded at the end. I
vowed to wait 24 hours before writing a review to see if my euphoria
passed. It hasn't.
<|_=00=_|>
Before anyone sees this film, Zach Snyder should be given a pat on the
back. He did what a dozen directors struggled to do for twenty years:
he made a Watchmen movie. It seems unthinkable that anyone could
properly put the greatest graphic novel of all time on the screen. But
Snyder has done pretty much that.

While it is not Alan Moore's Watchmen, it is the closest thing that
anyone else could have put on the screen. Snyder approached the
material with enough reverence that fans of the comic will appreciate
the film. As Snyder has openly declared, the final act does include
significant changes, but the alterations that take place fit better on
the big screen than the original ending would have. It works because it
cuts down on a lot of the necessary back story which Snyder could not
include.

Even though many pages of the book were not included, Snyder did take
the time to try and preserve other information by including short
"historical" sequences in the fantastic opening title sequence. By this
point, viewers will also have had a chance to appreciate the stellar,
and time appropriate, soundtrack. Unlike the hard rock recordings the
Snyder chose for the background of 300, Watchmen's background fits the
tone and mood of most of the scenes. The only questionable choice was
the selection of Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah," not because of the
recording, but rather its awkward placement. Some may also question
Snyder's inclusion of gore not present in the book. While the comic
does include it's share of violence, Snyder did overtly change several
scenes to be more violent. These changes, while flashy on film, may
disturb squeamish moviegoers. However, changes aside, Snyder has
captured the essence of the book and packaged it in a beautiful 2 hour
and 40 minute delight. Overall, it is a satisfying film experience for
someone familiar with the source material.

But this might be a different experience for anyone who does not know
the book. There is a lot to digest, and the overwhelming visuals may
distract some moviegoers from the bigger picture. The interaction of
these unique characters remains an integral point to understanding this
film, and when the book was pared down for the movie, the relationships
of the masked adventures became a bit more forced. The best part of the
comic was the glimpse of what is "beneath the hood," and we have less
of that in Snyder's adaptation. Additionally, the ending, while
simplified, is still a bit convoluted.

Fans and those previously unfamiliar with Watchmen should go in with an
open mind. Snyder has performed what Doctor Manhattan might deem a
miracle, so it may take more than one viewing to truly appreciate this
unique adaptation.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get this out of the way - Watchmen the movie is not as good as
the graphic novel. 

Zack Snyder's Watchmen is not your average graphic novel adaptation.
Unlike with 300, which was short and sharp and shallow and easy to
adapt, the original Watchmen is incredibly dense and, as written,
unfilmable. So Snyder did something very smart - he didn't even try.
What he did instead was to take the world of Watchmen and rebuild it in
a way which made a virtue of this new medium (film) rather than try to
cram the graphic novel into a cinematic form.

Nowhere is this approach more obvious than in the film's title
sequence. A wonderfully composed collage of images depicts scenes from
the universe of Watchmen in a way which is only possible in the movies.
In this way, we are subconsciously introduced to a world where costumed
heroes are a part of everyday culture and brought, in a stylish and
fluid way, from the original days of the Minutemen to those of the
Watchmen. This introduction is cinematically perfect and is indicative
of the heights which the Watchmen movie is perfectly capable of
achieving but not quite capable of sustaining.

Watchen is a brave film for a major studio to make and without a doubt
it would not exist in its present form without the success of 300. It
is incredibly dark (both in tone as well as shooting style) with events
that would be anathema to any other superhero story. The less you know
about the story, the better so there will be no spoilers here but
suffice to say Watchmen's version of a happy ending is a far cry from
the Hollywood norm.

Snyders brings his unique approach to action to bear on Watchmen,
expanding on the action scenes in the comic without making it feel too
redundant. His efforts are ably supported by the incredibly game cast,
excellent cinematography and near perfect visual effects - this film is
incredible to look at but also manages to create an entire world in a
way which most superhero stories never do. The attention to detail in
even the smallest scenes is commendable and the dense flashback
structure means the same attention is paid to the presentation of full
and complex characters.

Snyder has made a film which is gorgeous to look at, agreeably violent,
well written, wonderfully designed and features some of the best small
scale action sequences ever committed to celluloid. But, naturally, not
everything is perfect. Most of the performances are excellent, with a
cast of relative unknowns who manage to distinguish themselves despite
constantly competing with overbearing effects and design. Patrick
Wilson, in particular, does great work with a difficult role as Nite
Owl, while Jackie Earle Hayley is blistering as Rorschach.
Unfortunately in a film which could have done with a strong female
presence, neither Carla Gugino nor Malin Ackerman make much of an
impression, despite having quite a lot of screen time. Synder's musical
cues are another bone of contention - often pushing the tone of the
film into the realm of parody. And the ending... well let's just say it
cheapens the experience in search of the lowest common denominator and
the whole package suffers. On a related note, neither of the stories
major revelations are handled that well. These moments were genuinely
shocking in the graphic novel but are almost glossed over in the film.

Don't get the wrong impression, Watchmen is a good film, sometimes a
great film. Snyder has managed to make a movie which is a terrifically
well balanced compromise between accessibility and fidelity. That
anyone can sit down in the cinema and experience a distillation of the
Watchmen universe in just 163 minutes is a marvel. It does not deliver
the depth of feeling and connection of the novel but that is more a
matter of the differences in the media than a failure on the part of
the film.

On its own merits, Zack Synder's Watchmen is a dark and twisted tale
peopled with complex characters whose motivations are not obvious even
to themselves. It is a solid film, sometimes rising into the
extraordinary, and deserves to be successful. This is not Alan Moore's
Watchmen but it is a competent extension of the universe into another
medium and a worthy cinema-going experience.
<|_=00=_|>
After months of anticipation, today I was fortunate enough to be able
to attend the premiere of Watchmen over here. Together with a friend,
who hasn't read the book, we went to Amsterdam this afternoon.
Expectations were ridiculously high and I was kinda afraid to leave
disappointed, since I wasn't sure how to possibly film the book that
people refer to as not filmable. 

Zack Snyder appears to have been the right choice to take the job. 300
proved that he has an eye for visuals and knows how to adept a book as
faithful to its source as possible, but faithfulness and nice pictures
don't necessarily make for a good movie. In order to achieve this he
was forced to cut several sub-plots and trim sequences now and then. He
made some very smart moves here though, by making up with detail. Every
single frame will please fans with in-jokes, or hints at related
characters or plots that the unfamiliar moviegoer won't miss. This
gives Watchmen the very much needed depth and heart that fans so very
much craved for. 

The overall story is an exact replica from the book, with every single
flashback in place and only 1 noticeable change towards the ending.
Much discussed by fans, but I'm sure that only the very worst
nitpickers or haters might think badly of this. It works perfectly
well, so rest assured, it won't disappoint. The movie begins, like the
novel, with the Comedian being killed in a long, tense and
action-packed scene that sets the proper mood and makes one long for
more, which we get plenty of the next 160 minutes. After this scene
comes the brilliant intro montage (with 'The Times They Are A-Changin'
in the background), which introduces the Minutemen and helps newcomers
to pick up on the story. 

Everything that comes after this is in one word overwhelming. Every
character is well cast, takes complete hold of your attention and gets
the time for a proper and detailed introduction. After watching it,
it's hard to tell which hero I liked best. Patrick Wilson is perfect as
Dan Dreiberg, Rorschach a joy to watch and you're watching Dr.
Manhatting in awe, which makes sense for his character. Also, I'm sure
everyone will secretly fall in love with Silk Spectre II (Malin
Akerman). The suits have been beautifully changed wherever necessary
and also have the right effect. The Minutemen look kinda stupid, which
is perfect for the superhero parody element of the book. But not only
the heroes impress, the fans will have a splendid time recognizing all
the smaller characters, such as the news-vendor and the reading kid, or
the shrink with his pills. 

Although Snyder adapted the book from scene to scene, there are not
only passages he had to make shorter, but also those he slightly
enhanced. Fights are longer; action sequences leave a bigger
impression. He wonderfully uses slow motion effects and fortunately
kept the editing at a modest tempo, never resulting in unwatchable
quick fights. I heard that the UK rated this 18+, which makes sense
given the amount of violence it has. Be it boiling fat thrown over a
man or bones broken in the most horrible ways, there's plenty of gore.
But the movie also doesn't fall short in nudity. Apart from a short
scene involving Malin Akerman, it's Billy Crudup who gets to run around
naked showing his digital penis the whole time as Dr. Manhattan. It
doesn't distract however, but gives Watchmen something truly adult,
very different from the far more gentle 'Knight'. 

The special effects are really good, Dr. Manhattan looks awesome, Mars
looks like you expect Mars to look and Rorschach's mask remains fun to
see from start to finish. Most of the visuals and environments are very
colorful and almost drown in atmosphere, a very welcome change from the
realism that 'Knight' had. This is simply more fun to watch and
impresses a whole lot more. The soundtrack is fun, picking various
songs from that period. I'm sure most wouldn't work as well in other
movies, but they seem perfectly in place here. 

Watchmen is without any doubt the film I was so very much hoping for. A
perfect adaptation of the novel is impossible, but this is the closest
Snyder could've possibly gotten. His eye for detail will please fans,
the visuals are wonderful, the characters intrigue and fortunately he
hasn't made any wrong choices concerning the story. The 160 minutes
flew by and I can't wait to see this for a second time next week. An
astonishing movie that impresses in every way possible. I had a
wonderful time. 

I won't hold back here by giving this 9.5/10. By the way, my friend who
didn't know the book loved it as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I have not read the graphic novel. This was deliberate, since
I knew there was going to be a movie, and reading any book tends to
ruin the movie. I'm sure there are a whole bunch of things in the
graphic novel that they left out or changed, and it's hard for those
who have read it to imagine how people could understand the subtleties
of the story without it. But trust me, the morally complex,
multi-layered characters and plot were very well delivered by the movie
alone. There was nothing that seemed like it didn't make sense or
wasn't quite explained. The movie was just about perfect.

I'm surprised to hear a lot of reviews saying that this is just an
action movie for teenage boys; I thought quite the opposite. There was
much less action than I expected, the movie centered mostly on emotions
and ideas conveyed through dialog, narration and character flashbacks.
The action scenes were all fairly short, though when there was action
it was delightfully innovative. There were a lot of nasty and
unexpected twists like limbs snapping, guts sticking to the ceiling,
bones audibly crunching... Every time something violent happened, they
made it interesting and shocking rather than recreating the generic
ho-hum violence of every other movie. (And there was no obligatory
30-minute-long final action scene culminating in the conclusion of the
plot... oh joy! Those get so boring.) Plus, many of the scenes were
rather bold for a mainstream film, and showed certain things that are
normally hidden off-screen or completely avoided. The only example I
feel I can give without spoiling anything is the full frontal male
nudity, something that is rather conspicuously hidden in almost every
Hollywood movie. This movie isn't concerned about hiding little things
like that, just as it isn't concerned about hiding certain subjects
that most movies wouldn't show.

This movie definitely isn't for everyone. People expecting another Dark
Knight will be disappointed (or, as in my case, thrilled), as this
movie is completely unique. People who want an action movie and don't
want all that talking and thinking will be disappointed. But to those
looking for a long, complicated, deeply moving epic that will really
make them think about the very concepts of right, wrong, and heroism
(and who haven't read the book, which based on other reviews seems to
ruin it): Do NOT miss this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Watchmen is the long-awaited graphic novel adaptation that has for a
long time been deemed un-filmable. There have been many different
points over the years where this movie was supposed to be made, which
always ended up not happening. But now Watchmen is finally here in all
its glory, and it's probably the best adaptation possible of this
complex graphic novel. The story takes place in an alternative 1985,
with Nixon beginning his third term as president, and the streets of
New York are gritty, dark, and violent. Within New York lives a group
of costumed heroes that used to be loved by society, but are now hated
by practically everybody. One night a depressed retired hero named The
Comedian is murdered by a masked person that breaks into his apartment.
Another hero named Rorschach, who wears a mask with shifting ink blots,
believes that someone is picking off costumed heroes to begin their own
agenda of destruction. Rorschach begins investigating and hunting down
the person that is responsible for The Comedian's death. Meanwhile we
meet another hero who glows blue, and has almost literally become a
God. His name is Dr. Manhattan, and although he has the power to save
the world he won't do it because he has lost many of his human
emotions. The other main costumed heroes are Night Owl and Silk
Spectre, who begin to fall in love amid the chaos of their secret
lives. Any other attempt to describe the complex plot of this movie
would be nearly impossible.

Watchmen was an extremely complex graphic novel filled with a lot of
flawed costumed characters, strong plot, powerful sense of style, and
also contained a world that seems a little too close to our own. The
movie carries every one of these elements in the best way it possibly
could. It stays true to the novel, and only changes a few details. The
memorable characters are very well portrayed and acted as well. Dr.
Manhattan (the giant blue guy) is played very well by Billy Crudup, who
manages to keep the character interesting despite his emotionless
attitude. Malin Akerman (Silk Spectre II), Patrick Wilson (Night Owl
II), and Matthew Goode (Adrian Veidt) are also very good in their
roles. However the two actors that truly help add depth and a real
sense of anger to the film are Jeffrey Dean Morgan as The Comedian, and
Jackie Earle Haley as Rorschach. Rorschach was probably my favorite
character because technically he's not really a hero at all. He's a
psychopath with harmful and destructive behavior, even though in a way
he's trying to do what he believes is right for the world. He is a
fascinating character with his shape-shifting mask full of ink blots
that mirror his personality.

The movie takes place in 1985 and mimics what was happening back then.
Watchmen's story revolves around the threat of nuclear war and global
destruction, and the characters mostly try to do the right thing for
the world but have trouble seeing the point in doing so. This is a
great film that stays true to the original graphic novel while
transitioning its style, characters, chain of events, and storyline
from page-to-screen the best it possibly could. However if you're not
familiar with the source material you may find yourself confused by
this movie. It's not like The Dark Knight where everybody that goes to
see it knows who Batman and the Joker are. These characters are not as
famous as those types of household name characters, and may be hard for
someone's whose never read the novel to understand. Personally I only
read a few chapters before I saw the movie, and I thought the movie was
incredible. I always give a movie props for not taking the easy way out
by spoon-feeding everything to the audience. The book, as well as the
movie, was daring by taking of the risk of being complex and making you
think for a change. Watchmen is a great movie, and despite its long
running time of 163 minutes, I never found it boring at all. Watchmen
is a fascinating graphic novel adaptation that deserves to be seen by
anybody that likes their movies complex, dark, and absorbing.
<|_=00=_|>
An ex-superhero is thrown through a plate glass window, many stories
above the city. Was his murder somehow connected to the feared imminent
nuclear holocaust between the United States and Russia? Someone seems
to want the former do-gooders out of the way in this thrilling,
one-of-a-kind, jaded look at superheroes that turns conventional
comic-book wisdom on its head.

It's an alternate 1985. Richard Nixon has been elected to a fifth
presidential term. But the USSR is encroaching on Afghanistan, and the
US isn't taking too kindly to it. Enter the smartest man in the world,
Adrian Veidt (Matthew Goode), formerly known as superhero Ozymandias,
who is working with the ethereal Dr. Manhattan (Billy Crudup), a
physicist who has achieved immortality and near-omniscience owing to a
long-ago lab mishap. With Dr. Manhattan's help, Adrian hopes to
dissolve the tension between the two superpowers.

But that's not the only conflict, not by a long shot. Since the
characters here are unfamiliar to most audiences, there's plenty of
backstory, seamlessly edited into the main story as important details
that inform the characters. (For one thing, we get to see the rather
graphic - more on that later - origin of Dr. Manhattan.) The
superheroes have conflict within their own group, which has gone its
separate ways - with different goals and outlooks. Not only that, but
the world at large isn't entirely on the side of masked avengers,
labeling them as vigilantes. By the present, most of them have ditched
their costumes for traditional lives; some tinker with their gadgets in
their basements, in hiding, and some merely blend into society.

Here's who's left in 1985, in addition to Ozymandias (who's revealed
his true identity to the world) and Dr. Manhattan: Nite Owl II (Patrick
Wilson), Rorschach (Jackie Earle Haley), Silk Spectre II (Malin
Akerman), and The Comedian (Jeffrey Dean Morgan). Others have gone
insane or been murdered themselves in years past; all suffer as
everyday humans now.

So how does Watchmen skewer comic-book tropes? Well, they're not always
good, you see. Some are, but some maliciously kill, albeit for the
greater good. Some take delight in the suffering of man if that man is,
say, a child killer. That sort of thing. The truth is, no one here is
perfect, not even the superheroes. Another difference is the high level
of violence in the movie. This isn't a comic-book movie where the bad
guys fall down when they get slapped, no sir. No, the heroes beat the
stuffing out of them, with blood, entrails, and the like splattering
all over the place. Limbs are dislodged, brains are exposed. It's
wildly violent, much like director Zack Snyder's last film, 300, but
without the detached, this-can't-be-real tone. This isn't a movie in
which the bad guys are brought in for questioning or sent to prison to
think about what they've done. This is a movie in which the bad guys
are annihilated, period.

In case you're still contemplating taking the kiddies to see this
superhero fare, here's another caveat: there's nudity. No, it's not
Malin Akerman (although you do get a glimpse), it's the blue-hued Dr.
Manhattan himself. Sometimes he's in a thong, but often he's just
letting it all dangle there. Funny thing is, it's not really all that
shocking. If it'd been one of the humans, perhaps, but Dr. Manhattan is
more humanoid than human at this point.

At 160 minutes, the action really doesn't let up. But that's nothing -
most movies are fast paced now. This one has a plot that can keep up
with the action. In fact, the intricacies of the plot are delicious to
unwrap; this was not a movie - superhero or not - where you can predict
the end without just taking a wild stab.

I can't understate how tremendous an achievement this movie is. If
we're all lucky, this will open the door for more adult comic-book
films. The good guys don't always have to be about justice and truth
and all that junk, and the bad guys can sometimes get what's really
coming to them. I do want to point out that among the outstanding cast,
Jackie Earle Haley as the haunted, masked Rorschach is tremendous.
Wilson, who appeared with Haley in Little Children a few years back, is
also dweebishly strong as the aging Nite Owl II.
<|_=00=_|>
It is 1985, Richard Nixon is serving his fifth term as US president and
the world stands on the brink of destruction as the world's two
superpowers vie for nuclear supremacy. The only thing stopping the USSR
from launching a doomsday attack is America's Dr Manhattan  a being
with enough power to destroy planets and much else besides.

Wow! I was lucky enough to watch this at a preview screening in London
last night and came to the film with little knowledge about what to
expect. Having seen the posters around the place and perhaps catching
one or two of the trailers I was expecting something akin to another
"X-Men" movie (which frankly I've never found particularly
interesting). However, it was a very pleasant surprise to find that
Zack Snyder has served up something entirely fresh and quite dazzling.
Watchmen takes the well-worn superhero format and turns it on its head.
As you would expect from a movie of this genre you get a tale of
attempted world domination by evil baddies, good guys wearing latex
costumes, fistfuls of action and spectacular special effects. What you
would not expect is to have this interwoven with eye-watering violence
(a scene where one particularly nasty bad guy gets a meat cleaver
brought down on his forehead being one example), full frontal male
nudity (albeit computer generated) and rampant satire. The US political
system, military posturing and blind patriotism are all given a bit of
a roasting by David Hayter and Alex Tse's script. Add to this a host of
compelling performances, notably Jackie Earle Haley as Rorschach and
Patrick Wilson as Nite Owl, and you have an exceptional cinematic
experience.

Watchmen is no ordinary superhero movie and likely to manage the
difficult feat of satisfying both the fan-boys and the uninitiated
punters (like myself). Its success means it must be highly likely that
there will be a sequel  if not several. Catch this early if you can
and be one of the first to witness that rarefied thing in cinema 
something beautiful, exciting and original.
<|_=00=_|>
Watchmen turned out to be an engrossing film, one definitely worth
seeing. I have to say, I wasn't enthusiastic about watching it at
first. It's based on the great graphic novel by Alan Moore. It's widely
considered to be the best graphic novel ever. Films adapted form great
literary works usually don't turn out well. The film also didn't have a
big budget. More money was thrown at making Iron Man (2008) and The
Dark Knight (2008), for example. This doesn't matter though because
Watchmen surpasses all comic book films in terms of professionalism.
Zack Snyder is a good action director. Just watch 300 (2007) for proof.
With Watchmen he demonstrated that he is just a good director overall.
He works well with actors. The acting in the film is almost universally
excellent. Everyone gets to shine. Even Malin Akerman had her moments.
Not one character feels like a throwaway. All this is further
complimented by the good choices in costumes. No one can deny that the
heroes in Watchmen look cool. The CGI is excellent too. Be it Doctor
Manhattan or Nite Owl's airship, everything looks just right. Snyder
staged some truly impressive dramatic scenes. The use of music is
inspired. The score by Tyler Bates is obviously fitting, but the
choices in songs may surprise some people. I, however, think that the
songs are just right. It was good to hear Bob Dylan's "The Times They
Are a-Changing" at the beginning and Leonard Cohen's "First We Take
Manhattan" at the end. What made me like the film even more is its
cinematography by Larry Fong. The look of each decade was captured
perfectly. The 1980s are somewhat dark in the film's alternate reality
though. Nuclear war seems close, and society is sick. To all this is
added the sweet look that's also present in the graphic novel. There
are many images in Watchmen that are memorable, even unforgettable.
There are so many interesting details that I couldn't wait to watch the
film more than once to pick up what I missed on first viewing.
Thankfully, Snyder didn't change the politics and observations of the
graphic novel for the film. Some parts are missing but the endeavour is
still a thought-provoking two-and-a-half hours. Plus, it has a clear
narrative. This is a comic book film for mature audiences. It stands
above other comic book films because it's smart and because it tackles
some of the most important issues, even mankind's existence. Watchmen
was expertly made, there is a lot to like about it. I respect it and I
like it more than any other superhero motion picture. It gets a high
recommendation from me.
