
I will keep it short and simple. Just watched it, paid 10$ for it, it
is worth it. Not much of details as you would expect out of a great
movie, not much of substance in the movie itself however the acting and
the pace of the movie is so beautiful you wont think of the flaws in
the intricate plans they carry out in the movie. The subtle comedy is
really nice and they have kept the first movie in consideration and
have not brought many new characters. It is not a movie that you would
think a lot about after you come out of the hall, however you will not
think anything else either while the movie is going on. I will give it
7 for the sheer value of entertainment and nothing else and of course
the one liners that keep popping up which actually make you laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
I had seen the previous National Treasure, and armed with that memory
and the knowledge that this was a Disney movie, I watched its sequel
without a great deal of expectations---predictable adventure drivel,
Indiana Jones with more modern special effects, is what I expected. But
this movie manages to disappoint even fairly modest expectations such
as those.

In the end it really comes down to two problems: (1) It doesn't make
any sense. (2) The acting is awful.

On (1), I really don't mean to nitpick on historical minutiae---hell,
I'd be happy to suspend disbelief for two hours on stuff such as
Lincoln's assassination, Mayan treasures, Mount Rushmore geography, and
all that other nonsense. No problem there. But the point of a treasure
hunt movie is the ability to follow the main character in his struggle,
perhaps struggle with him, see him figure things out and perhaps guess
with him. For this to work, the universe of the movie doesn't have to
be consistent with the world we live in, but it has to be consistent
with itself. But the universe of this movie is like a great big fairy
tale, with the central character pulling white rabbits out of his
sleeve whenever he needs them. Yes, the movie tries its hand at some
drama, but it just doesn't work. Things go pretty smoothly for the most
part---into the Queen's office, out of it again, oops, we are being
chased, heck, let's take a photo, oh no camera, ah, there is a traffic
camera, yep and by the way, can you just hack into the computer and
download the pic, and on to the next event (same thing with the oval
office, then kidnapping the president). While the hero thus McGyvers
his way through an increasingly preposterous story, the whole thing
just starts to feel stale, and you get the feeling that it might have
been better if he had not stolen the Constitution in part 1, so the
writers would not have to top this. The villain is lame and for the
most part useless, not to speak of somewhat incoherent ("I am not going
last, so I might as well go first"---say what?).

None of the story really makes the slightest bit of sense, including
the motivation of the hero (to clear the name of his
great-great-grandfather---that's why he risks his life, the life of
friends and loved ones, not to speak of his own good name by kidnapping
a president!). It's all just a steaming pile of nonsense aimed at
people who really do not give a damn about story and stuff, but who
just want to see a lot of movement/action, high-tech gobbledygook,
explosions, and cheap patriotism.

However, as bad as the story was, (2), the bad acting was even worse.
Everybody in this movie was disappointing, even a non-actor like
Kruger. Her career should end with this movie, over, out, finito. She
cannot do it, and it's not been for a lack of opportunity. If you had a
consistent record of failure like hers in any regular job, you'd find
yourself with a lot of spare time very soon. But even the real actors
here just make you cringe---Greenwood, Harris, Mirren, Voight, they all
deliver horrible performances that seem to betray their lack of passion
and their paycheck mentality. We know they *can* act, we have seen it
before, but they just don't in this movie. Keitel comes away without
much harm---his part is so tiny, there just isn't a lot of opportunity
to screw things up too badly.

Why oh why do they keep making this fluff? Because for some reason we
attend it. We go there, drop our cash, and watch this nonsense. I am
guilty as charged. But if you haven't seen it, you and your money can
still make a difference. Watch a good movie. There are plenty out
there.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a select few individuals out there that seem to garner
everything they know about life from movies, be it political
viewpoints, philosophy, etc. and find it objectionable when a movie is
produced purely for entertainment purposes. I can't speak for everyone,
but as for myself, I don't want to have to pay to have yet another
political viewpoint shoved down my throat (CNN/Foxnews broadcasts 24/7
for that), or to be beaten over the head with with the life philosophy
of some bazillionaire producer/director that lives in the Ivory Tower
that is Hollywood. I can read Zarathustra, the Tao Tse Ching, or even
the Bible for that.

When I go to see a movie, I just wan to be entertained, and National
Treasure BoS delivers there. Not the best movie I have ever seen, but
it was an entertaining escape from reality for two hours and that it
was I pay my money for. For me, the best part of the movie wasn't Nic
Cage. He has done so many movies, it seems like he has gotten to the
point where he is just punching the clock. He doesn't stand out on
film, but he isn't horrible either and that is what we get from him
here - a very pedestrian workmanlike performance. I would like to think
he has another touchstone performance in him like the one he gave in
"Leaving Las Vegas", but if he can still keep getting several million
per movie just being average, why put in the effort. Diane Kruger was
also pretty average. She shined in the first movie, but not so much
here.

For me, John Voight, Justin Bartha and Helen Mirren were what made the
movie good. John Voight was great. His character was both funny and
endearing and the synergy between him and Mirren was palpable. Mirren
showed once again why she is arguably the best actress in the business.
Justin Bartha was a scene stealer and had some of the funniest lines
(along with Voight).
<|_=00=_|>
National Treasure: Book of Secrets is a decent film. Nothing more,
nothing less. I came out of the theater content, and yet by the next
hour I'd forgotten much of what had taken place. Such is the case for
most films now, however.

Compared to the first film, the plot is weak (certainly not as tightly
drawn as the former) but the energy is the same and the humor is the
same, and overall it's still as watchable as the first. Helen Mirren
and Ed Harris were also very good, and somewhat surprising, additions
to the cast.

Essentially, the movie is on the ridiculous/unbelievable side, but it's
worth a watch. I don't think I'd pay another 10 dollars to see it again
in theaters, but waiting for a rental will do.
<|_=00=_|>
*****Spoiler Ahead STOP Now*****

This was a classic case of sequel trying to live off the fervor of the
original but had gone bad in horrible ways.

So if you want to view this pathetic excuse for a movie stop reading
now, go see it, then finish this slash and burn review.

The movie speed was a dreadful snooze for many minutes at a time. I
found myself actually more entertained looking around the theater to
see if other people were doing the same. 

The story started out plausible and there may even be a tiniest shred
of actual history to support the artistic privileges the story writers
embarked on. Let me think.. Lincolns assassination and a letter from
the French to the Confederate Union, 3 statues of Liberty, 2 identical
desks (Oval office and in the Queens of England's Office), and Mount
Rushmore _IS_ located in South Dakota and not in South America.

I have a SERIOUS beef with this Disney Production on that last one.
Everybody who watched this movie left there dumber than they entered.
The gullible people out there probably think there is a lake on the top
(or within walking distance of the top) of Mount Rushmore. Even WORSE
people may actually believe that an ancient Mayan culture lived in
South Dakota, built caverns, and then transported and lined them with
tons of gold. Sure why not, it's a movie! 

The story leaped from Dad's house, to the Gates' mansion, to Paris, to
London, to University of Maryland, to the White House, to a
Presidential retreat, to the Library of Congress, to Mount Rushmore, to
a Lake *on* Mount Rushmore... all seemingly in a span of a day or two.
I guess it is technically possible to zip around the world like that
but jet lag would have surely taken its toll... yet everybody seemed
fine. The one place they did not get even remotely close to was South
America. Hello! The major story line leaned heavily on the Mayan
civilization. WTF?

Seems the story writers (perhaps in response to the critics) wanted to
liven up the snooze screen play so they injected a ridiculous car
chase. Complete with self repairing cars, drifting sequences, bullets
at point blank range that hit everything but the target, and my new
favorite... using the red light camera to take a photo (then getting
that photo back later) of Mayan writing at high speeds. Yeah... right. 

Ed Harris should have stayed out of this one. His performance mechanics
were fine but the story writers simply didn't know what to do with him.
Seemed as if the original plot had him doing more but huge chunks of
character development were left on the cutting room floor.. well, we
can hope that. This might have been the best the writers could have
mustered.

Abigale was useless. Oh, she had her 60 seconds of lines but that was
about it. The story writers made a horribly obvious "fix" to the story
using her. She just magically appeared in the right place (she was in
the States earlier) and the right time without any coordination to help
Benjamen sneak into the Queens office. Plausibility... Zero.

Riley was cute and lovable as before. The writers tried overly hard to
capitalize on this comedic charm. What the heck... he's pretty handy
with an IPod and a laptop. 

Benjamen, as a positive role model for a _Disney_ film, should go to
jail. Let's count the offenses: Speeding, reckless driving, theft,
trespassing, destruction of property, conspiracy to kidnap, and
kidnapping. Disney thinks this is all fine since he's the "hero" after
all. Thanks Disney! 

I have no idea why the Feds were in this film. They didn't do anything
until the very end... but that was only after Benjamen called them.

The "book" was a pathetic story prop. They could have used a spoon or
pile of play dough. If only the book had been used throughout the
movie... Nope, that would take real story writing skills.

Nitpicks... 1) I doubt "duplicated" cell phones really allow you to
receive a call in two locations at once. 2) The story title "Book of
Secrets" relates to a book that had a total of 30 seconds relevance (I
am being generous here) to the whole story. 3) Cliché, the bad guys
hijack ridiculous vehicles in a high speed chase. In this case a truck
loaded with kegs of beer. 4) Security in the Queens Office seems
laughable. Just walk in, take what you want and walk out. 5) Riley can
remotely unlock security gates and set off fire alarms from a restroom.
Seems the Disney group has a low opinion of British security. 6) Riley
also has super human strength. He picked up a block of gold and by the
look of it should have been about 400lbs. 7) Cliché, "let's turn this
spinner/lever thing and see what happens"... not once.. but 5 freaking
times.... yawn. 8) Hey.. didn't they have one of those rolling doors in
Indiana Jones? 9) Oh sh*t we're all going to drown... panic!!! Let's
all go to the lowest point in this crisis and speed up the drownings.
What's that? A glimpse of sunlight from above? How about treading water
until things fill up so you can walk out. Nope can't do that. Got to
have another unnecessary plot complication to wipe out the useless bad
guy.

Summing up. The "National Treasure: Book of Secrets" will join the
ranks of sequel movie blunders. Story writers never made clear why
chasing after this lost city of gold would prove that Gate's great
great grandfather was not a Confederate collaborator. WTF is up with
this lake on Rushmore and this Mayan culture. Generally, the story was
fragmented, slow, clichés everywhere, gross leaps from plausibility,
and a disgustingly irresponsible display of story telling by Disney.
<|_=00=_|>
Safe fun entertainment where people don't get killed, just cars and so
forth. The thrills and chills are little less potent, the jokes a bit
too cute, and Ed Harris' character is a little ambiguous by the end as
if Harris is getting a little tired of the stereotype he has played in
movie after movie. There is some drama, though perhaps not enough and
the funny comedy doesn't always seem to balance the adventure aspect.
Overall, though the movie was enjoyable, fun, a thrill ride if not
completely transporting into the Indiana Jones realm. Boring it was
not, but a bit manipulative, not as edgy, not as dramatic as it could
have been. A nice way to keep the Christmas winter blues away in the
end. Seven out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
There's so much wrong about this pitiful film I don't know where to
start! As an adult, I found National Treasure: Book of Secrets the most
boring movie I have seen on the big screen all year. I had to use every
ounce of will power not to walk out of the theater and demand my money
back!

Before the movie even started, I was forced to sit through an
infuriatingly dopey Disney cartoon, which was nothing more than a
not-so-subtle commercial for expensive T.V. and stereo equipment. It
went on and on and on. Finally I had to close my eyes in order not to
get overly aggravated! Wow! How low Disney has sunk to make a buck.

The story was written to the level of a 10 year old! There's close to
nothing to entertain an adult. It's a blatant and poorly done rip-off
of Raiders of the Lost Ark.

I can deal with a story that's preposterous if it's enjoyable. But
kidnapping the president by walking him through a tunnel. How exciting!
Finding a Central or South American city hidden thousands of miles away
in the Badlands of South Dakota! Yikes!, how insulting to all the
Plains Indian tribes can you get? Or, how dumb do you think the
American movie going audience is? Can at least a modicum of reality
seep into the story?

The special affects are so trite! The props look so fake that I thought
they were using an amusement park to film this movie. I was waiting for
a water slide to show up any moment! 

The acting was pitiful! Nicholas Cage had such a painful look
throughout the movie I though he must either be embarrassed or ashamed
of himself for stooping so low. I realize actors need to make a living.
But he, of all people, can pick and choose his film projects. 

The only good thing I could think of is the scene with President and a
cameo of a Hillary Clinton look-alike at the President's birthday
party. Since the Hillary cameo was having such a good time at the
party, it can be assumed the Democrats won the 2008 election!
<|_=00=_|>
Disney and Jerry Bruckheimer have dived yet again into their secret
book to pull out a map that leads to treasures of vast fortune. No, not
a legendary city of gold, but the riches that come from storming the
box office. National Treasure: Book of Secrets is everything a big
budget adventure sequel should be. A bigger story and better action
help make Book of Secrets a surprising end of the year crowd pleaser.

Setting out to clear his ancestor's name, Ben Gates is back in
treasure-hunting action to unequivocally prove that his family had
nothing to do with the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. With his usual
cohorts Riley, Abigail and his father, Patrick Gates, the trio must
race against the clock to stop a new enemy, Mitch Wilkinson, from
uncovering an ancient treasure before they can, or forever risk the
Gates name being associated with the death of one of America's greatest
presidents.

A hit for Nicholas Cage has been long overdue. Spanning nearly two full
years making dud after dud, Cage is back and in good form, even if a
sequel to the massively successful National Treasure was a safe
no-brainer. Book of Secrets is just as outlandishly fun as its
predecessor, one-upping the original by having the principle characters
break into Buckingham Palace and even kidnap the President of the
United States! Kudos have to be handed over to screenwriters Cormac and
Marianne Wibberley for crafting such a big adventure, yet staying true
to the themes that director John Turtletaub and company established
with the first National Treasure. Even though their new adventure takes
the entourage of talented character actor's across the globe, Book of
Secrets manages to keep this treasure hunt a uniquely American tale.
Just wait until you see where our government hid one of the most famed
and sought after treasures of all time! Upping the production value
from the last film, Book of Secrets is crammed packed with puzzles, car
chases and exciting action sequences to help keep the film filled with
riveting adventure from opening to closing frame. John Turtletaub has
again done a great job of keeping the manic pace of the film frantic
and fun, even if there are a few solitary moments when the picture
starts to feel the weight of its lengthy running time.

While the returning cast again does a stellar job continuing their
characters, newcomers to the series Ed Harris and Hellen Mirren are
welcomed additions to the story. While Harris is perfectly suited for
the role, his character, Mitch Wilkinson, seems to be the only weak
link to the story. Wilkinson seems like a very torn individual. One
minute the dastardly villain is opening fire on our heroes, vowing to
end their lives to get at the treasure, and the next he is helping
them! Luckily the picture's best moments don't hinge on confrontations
between Cage and Harris. The real fun of National Treasure has always
been watching as the characters solve some of history's most
challenging puzzles. Book of Secrets is assuredly no different, keeping
audiences on their toes and tantalizing them with conspiracy theories
that will likely continue the franchise forward.

Between massive Pirate's plunder and uncovering buried National
Treasure, 2007 aims to be a financially lucrative year for Disney's
live action department. With surprises at every turn, Book of Secrets
has established National Treasure as a viable and fun adventure
franchise, making the film a must see holiday blockbuster that the
whole family can enjoy.

-Joe Russo
<|_=00=_|>
National Treasure: Book of Secrets will always be known as the film
that prevented Helen Mirren from meeting Queen Elizabeth after the
success of The Queen. I mean really, I would have made the same choice,
because this film is truly high art. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the
first installment for its poor-man's Indiana Jones feel mixed with
glossy effects and convoluted plot lines (Bruckheimerisms as I like to
call them) and for the most part had fun with this one. Well that is
until the discovery was complete, then the film just dragged on and on
for what seemed like hours. This is a Disney film people, you know they
will find the treasure and all will be well with the world. Therefore,
all the intrigue and the discoveries to find the location of their
desire, complete with massively annoying cross cuts between four
different locales and ten different characters every five minutes, was
totally subverted by the ending's adventure nonsense with no stakes
because we all know how it would turn out. There were two things going
for it though, I became real nostalgic for "Legends of the Hidden
Temple" and found out that yes, Lyle Lovett is still alive.

I give director Jon Turteltaub and screenwriters The Wibberleys credit
for coming up with some real interesting set pieces and situations for
our adventurers to partake in. Weaving the Lincoln assassination with
ancient Native American lore and United States historical mythology and
rumor is quite a feat and it is successfully handled in my opinion.
What goes wrong here is the whole mentality that sequels need to be
bigger and better. The first film achieved a sort of balance with its
amount of characters, but this one just goes too far. We have to now
work in the President and our hero's mother, who just happens to be one
of a handful of people that can decipher the language needed to
complete their quest, not to mention throwing Harvey Keitel a bone by
giving him five minutes of screen time just so we have continuity with
a friendship from the previous story. Honestly, while I enjoyed
National Treasure, I never asked for a part two, and I don't think too
many people did. Unfortunately, however, it appears we will probably be
seeing a part three in the future if the setup here means anything.

The movie is if nothing else a good time. I admit to being a big
Nicolas Cage fan and enjoy his over-the-top shenanigansthey are in
full force here and I loved the scene at Buckingham Palace that
showcased them. Also, Justin Bartha is priceless as the hapless and
under-appreciated partner. His expressions and one-liners really add a
much-needed dimension here. The rest of the cast is adequate if very
underused. There are a lot of familiar faces with thankless roles and
many famous ones with little to do. Diane Kruger looks gorgeous as
usual, but her role is more female in distress than really adding
anything necessary to finding the treasure, unless you count watering
rocks.

So, in the end, this film is going to be huge regardless of quality. If
you liked the first, you will have a good time. It is not an Oscar
winner or any Nobel Prize winning commentary, it's just a good
old-fashioned mindless romp. As far as action/adventure goes, you could
do much worse. With some great laughs and some really fascinating
connections from history, you may actually learn something on the
journey. Never preaching its intelligence, you are allowed to glean
nuggets of truth at the same time as the characters that are still in
the dark do. Fun is fun, and as far as that goes this one succeeds,
despite the fact that it doesn't in any other cinematic category.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, National Treasure, the first one, is one of my favorite
movie ever. I love history, specifically American history, and it had
clever references and facts about American history that lead to finding
the treasure in a way that is not predictable. That being said, I felt
something was missing in National Treasure: Book of Secrets. It almost
felt like the writers could not think of any new, clever clues for
Nicolas Cage to solve or more suspense without action scenes.

First lets look at the positives. This movie was very well-done. The
acting was as superb as the first (Nicolas Cage and Justin Bartha are
amazing). It was very believable. Also the action scenes are excellent
and full of invigorating suspense. The scene near the unexpected end
where they had to balanced the steel block thing in the cave was
terrific. All the action scenes were awesome: right out of an Indiana
Jones movie. Another thing I liked was the ironic humor and sarcasm
used by Nicolas Cage's character and other characters throughout the
movie that gave it a light, fun feel. With interesting history
references and a brilliant score by Trevor Rabin, what could be wrong
with it?

You may not agree with me. But I felt that the ending, and a few other
scenes were rushed. For example, they spent literally about five
minutes in Paris both finding and figuring out the clue. After that
they moved on to London, they spent about 15 minutes there, 5 of them
were spent finding the clue. It all felt rushed which tended to confuse
me. And the ending definitely did not satisfy me. It was too sudden and
I felt it was incomplete, even though the movie was over two hours
long. 

As I think back to some of the scenes in the beginning and middle of
the movie, I forget why I included "negatives" because it was so
brilliant and I loved it as much as the first one. But then I remember
the ending. it just didn't satisfy like the last movie did. I can't
explain the nice feeling the first movie gave me: its what the perfect
movie gives you I guess. Anyway, I would recommend this to anyone who
has scene the first one and anyone who would like a good
crime/action/adventure flick with excellent acting with lovable and
believable characters. It's a great movie, it just didn't live up to my
expectations or the original's
