
I read the message boards before seeing the movie and wasn't really
that excited to go see it. Yes, the general storyline has been done
before...

I'm a male teenager and this movie made me cry. I can't remember the
last time a movie made me cry... in fact, I don't think I have
(teary-eyed doesn't count). Freedom Writers moved me.

It was so much better than I expected. All I can say is that it is
definitely worth at least a matinée viewing. 

The movie reminded me that all of America isn't like white middle-class
suburbia, of which I am a part. Regardless of how many times the same
movie has been done before, the white middle-class can use as many
reminders as possible that education is not that easy to obtain
everywhere. Even in America, opportunity is not equal, and I think it's
important for people to see that.

Don't judge the movie without seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on December 13th, 2006 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival's Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

Woodrow Wilson High School is located in Long Beach, California. The
school is voluntarily integrated, and it isn't working. The Asians, the
Blacks, the Latinos, and a very few whites not only don't get along,
but also stay with their own and are part of protective and violent
gangs. There isn't much teaching or learning going on at the school. It
is a warehouse for young teenagers until they can drop out or are
kicked out.

With this background, an idealistic teacher (Hilary Swank) arrives to
teach Freshmen English. She is very educated, pretty, middle class,
non-ethnic, well-dressed, and smart. From day one, she doesn't fit in
the classroom with these tough kids, and she doesn't fit in with the
faculty, who have all but given up and resigned themselves to being the
keepers of the student warehouse.

But our idealistic teacher will not give up. She slowly and painfully
tries to teach by first learning about "the pain" the students feel.
She encourages each of her students to keep a journal of their painful
and difficult life, and then to share the journal with her. She also
attempts to get the four ethnic groups to come together by getting them
to recognize what they have in common; specifically, their music, their
movies, their broken families, and their broken community surroundings.

While struggling with the students, she has to deal at the same time
with two complicated and demanding male relationships. Her husband
(Patrick Dempsey) is often supportive, but often jealous of her time
commitments. Her father (Scott Glenn) is often disappointed of her
career choice, but often proud of her courage and tenacity.

This story feels real. It is beautifully done. The acting of Swank,
Dempsey and Glenn is professional and believable. More importantly the
story highlights our society's challenges in schooling the children of
poor and one-parent families. 

The movie doesn't give miracle answers. But it does give hope. And in
the end, sincere effort appears to count for something  maybe
everything.

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into the movie theater with the ticket in my hand thinking
about how many other movies I have seen like the one I am about to
watch. "Remember the Titans", "Stand and Deliver", "Dangerous Minds",
and the list goes on and on. And so I sat in my comfy chair that rocks
back and forth so my back doesn't get stiff. Of course, my theater has
stadium seating so someone's big head doesn't get in the way of my
movie experience. And of course, I had to sit in the row with the
railing in front of it so I could put my feet up, because I wasn't
going to be uncomfortable while I play critic for this movie...what are
you, crazy? Then, the movie began. and it ran and I was quiet. I
laughed a little and cried a little, but not for one second was I
criticizing. As I saw the characters go through their horribly troubled
lives and while I was reminded of little Anne Frank, I became somewhat
guilty about silently complaining that I got the squeaky seat or that
my friend ate all the popcorn five minutes into the movie.

Likewise, when the movie was over, I had nothing negative to say. It
wasn't that I was biting my tongue, it was that I wasn't paying
attention to the mistakes of the movie (wherever they were) because I
was so engrossed in the plot...you know, the one I said had been done
before. the movie made me realize that gang violence and racial
intolerance are just as big issues today as EVER. And I decided that as
long as people are isolated because of their race and as long as people
innocently die in the midst of a gang war, it's okay for this plot to
live on...it gives hope to those who go to bed with one eye open, and
who go to school everyday wondering if they'll live to see their own
graduation.

And for me? For someone like me who complains about hastily eaten
popcorn? It makes me count my blessings just a LITTLE bit more
frequently. And any movie with a tired, overdone plot that can do
that...well, it's fine by me.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! What a movie! I was in tears most of the time. Very, very intense
movie. It was great! I didn't realize it was based on a true story and
that made the whole point of the movie even better. I recommend this to
everyone. A must see especially if you relate to it in any way shape or
form. I think it shines hope on disadvantaged youth and great
encouragement to defy all obstacles! Hillary Swank plays a great role
in this film and now Im gonna go out and buy the book. My son saw this
movie and was also in tears. He realized how blessed he is and how
there's no excuse to not finish high school and go on to college! i
will be adding these movie to my collection!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a special screening last night. I was hugely impressed. I
actually cried, a rarity for me. It was moving and poignant. I will
watch it again and again. 

I won't spoil it for anyone, but I think the ideas about education
expressed are universal, regardless of the race of either the teacher
or the students.

I was also impressed by the soundtrack and cinematography, and how they
incorporated the diaries into the story.

As usual, Hillary Swank puts in a good performance.

I have not read the book, so I don't know how it compares, but I am
looking into purchasing a copy.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie! I just saw an advanced screening, and was taken aback. I
went into it not knowing a lot about what the movie was about, but
expecting a "Dangerous Minds" Knock-off, but was surprised at how much
I really loved this. It's not like an award-winning film; however, it
is definitely worth checking out. And, without a fear of losing my
masculinity, I can honestly say that there were two, maybe three scenes
that I had to bite my lip and try to not tear up... if you can watch
this movie and not get misty eyed at least once there is something
wrong. There were actually scenes where the packed theater clapped and
cheered, and other times when everyone gasped at the same time.. it
will keep you entertained and you will walk away glad you came to see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Everyone who remembers his own educational experience remembers
teachers, not methods and techniques. The teacher is the kingpin of the
educational situation." Sidney Hook, Education for Modern Man 

It would be easy to criticize Freedom Writers as just another
cliché-infested classroom redemption story, more Blackboard Jungle than
History Boys. But because it is based on a true story of at-risk
students attending Woodrow Wilson High in Long Beach, a voluntarily
integrated school, I have to avoid accusing it of being derivative and
offer that it relates the essential truth about education: Most
students have a voice if a teacher can find it; most students can
thrive when a teacher creates a sense of family amid chaos, as Emily
Gruwell did in the early '90's of Rodney King riots in Los Angeles. The
diaries her students wrote inspired students around the country to do
the same.

Seeing the photo of the real Gruwell with her students as the end
credits roll, I can understand cynics saying this is typical
Hollywoodno teacher can look like Hillary Swank! But rising above the
petty carping that includes skepticism about transformation of unruly
kids into real students within a year, I have to admit it happened
because of the transforming power of love and words. As in Charlotte's
Web, both ingredients are potent reformers of the disaffected.

Gruwell sacrifices, as cases of true love sometimes require, her
personal freedom and loses her marriage for the higher good of the
young people she teaches. Admittedly, her slacker husband, Scott
(Patrick Dempsey), doesn't deserve such a gifted wife, and her crusty
dad, Steve (a monumentally weathered Scott Glenn), has some
stereotypical responses to his daughter's choices. Most of all I object
to those actors as students: They are way too old to be playing 14 and
15 year olds. Surely there are gifted teens who could do the job!
Overall, however, the film rings true about the magic a dedicated
teacher can do with rebellious but malleable teens.

For those of us who still toil in the fields of education, Freedom
Writers reminds us why we love a profession that gives us a chance to
save souls in the only way we can certify outside the uncertain faith
of religion. This film is a superior entry in a long history of
teaching brought to its ideal form in film.
<|_=00=_|>
I just arrived home after having seen a screening of this film. It's
very strong and moves well. It is very emotional, but is balanced well
with humor. Even better it's true to life humor, things that would
actually happen. you are drawn into the "family" that is the class and
you are led to see the changes taking place in people, instead of
having it shoved in your face like your too basic to understand.

I would also like to note the music. It was wonderful and did what
music is meant to for movies, setting the moods the score was present
in the background but not overwhelming (as in so many other movies
lately) the music didn't overshadow the story that was unfolding in any
way. 

Overall a very good movie that I will be happy to see again, and even
happy to pay full ticket price (which is saying something!). Great job
and thank you to all who worked on this movie, in my eyes it's a
winner. ^_^ 

"My badness" *chuckle*
<|_=00=_|>
This film was terrific! Very good! The acting by everyone, especially
by Hilary Swank, was great. If you are in the mood for an inspirational
film than you should go see this film. It puts you in a really good
mood and makes you feel great! 'Freedom Writers' was filled with drama,
humor, and more. It was a really nice film and a must see. 'Freedom
Writers', has something for everybody. It is a film that people will
love no matter what and who they are. A++++++ **** Go see this great
film! It will literally set you in a good mood. P.S. It will probably
make you cry so bring that special tissue box used for whatever your
tears need!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this screening and I must say, it was actually a really good
movie. Once again Hilary Swank did a terrific job as always! I know
it's based on a true story but I'm pretty sure it must have been
exaggerated a little. I've been to Long Beach and I know it's not that
bad. But then again, this was back in the 90's so it could possibly be
true. I also agree that Mario puts on a good performance. For a while,
I forgot he was Mario. He really played his character Andre really
well. The actors that played gangsters, dealers really looked like
gangsters and dealers so that was good too see. Also, Hilary Swank
looks a lot like the real Erin Gruwell so that was actually pretty
cool. Overall, the movie is good. Definitely better than Dangerous
Minds. My grade is an "A".
