
A very uneven comedy. If 3 out of every 10 jokes working is enough for
you, then go ahead.

If you're hoping to see Dane Cook (nearly) undressed, you won't be
disappointed. He strips more in this movie than Demi Moore in
"Striptease".

If you're hoping to see Jessica Alba undressed -- too bad! Scanty
attire is the best you'll get.

If you're hoping to see Dane be as funny as he is in his stand-up --
you'll be disappointed.

If you're hoping to see Jessica be funny -- what are you, nuts? She's
got no comedy chops! And that old tired "pretty girl falls down a lot"
shtick wasn't funny when it became a movie cliché about 5 years ago.

The only funny moments seem to be when Dane is improvising. When he's
doing the written parts of the script, it clunks hard. (Him dressed in
a penguin costume? Yikes.) The two leads try SO hard to show us they
have chemistry (a lot of shoulder wiggling and cutesy facial
expressions mostly) that it backfires.

There were a lot of gross-out moments that just weren't funny -- the
fat sidekick scrubbing his backflap with a scrub-brush for sexual
pleasure, a penguin eating his crap, two seduction scenes with obese
women (straight out of "Norbit" -- also unfunny).

The sidekick is so foul and obnoxious he throws the movie completely
off-balance. You feel like the movie needs a sorbet after one of his
scenes to get the bad taste out of your mouth.

The only likable person was the guy playing Jessica's brother (Lonny
Ross of "30 Rock"). I actually think he might have made a better
romantic lead, than Dane -- who was somehow off-putting.

Maybe Dane will have more input into his next comedy movie. Maybe that
will help.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like Dane Cook then chances are you have seen his movies and
while Good Luck Chuck is better and in some instances funnier, it still
is just another Employee of the Month. I personally enjoy Dane Cook's
humor and I thought Employee of the Month was....decent. I was hoping
Good Luck Chuck would be a hilarious smash hit but throughout the
advanced screening I kept thinking to myself "Okay well this is funny
but it's so typical." Now I don't want to give anything away but let's
just say if you've seen at least one romantic comedy in your life then
you know the entire story of Good Luck Chuck already. 

Don't get me wrong, I laughed pretty much all the way through the movie
although there were occasional points where it died down a little. Sad
to say there were only a few really memorable funny parts to the movie
though. Most was just slapstick style humor and revolting sex jokes.
The humor in Good Luck Chuck was by far raunchier than Employee of the
Month but then again that was PG-13 and this is R. 

I mentioned that the movie was typical and when I say typical I mean
every romantic movie cliché possible was used. It was like they took a
blueprint for a love story and then just added Dane Cook and Jessica
Alba and then made them do funny things. Granted there are moments
where they stray a little or add a funny twist to the formula but it
definitely didn't take long to come up with the progression of love in
the film.

If you want your next dose of laughter after Superbad then go see Good
Luck Chuck but don't expect anything new or inventive in terms of
storytelling. It is however something to note that there are tons of
sex scenes, lots of boobs, extremely raunchy jokes, and Jessica Alba
does not reveal any body parts although some side boob can be glanced
for a brief moment in the movie. (Just an FYI for all those who were
dying to know)
<|_=00=_|>
To make a good romantic flick, you must include a nice blend of humor,
heart, romance (obviously), drama, and realism. Good Luck Chuck
contains none of this. Packing in excessive nudity, pointless scenes,
unnecessary crude humor, and predictable physical humor in a matter of
90-something minutes, this film flounders from the beginning, flops
mostly throughout, and begins to reek towards the climax and the
ending. Missed opportunities are much more common than laughs in this
heap of disaster, which also includes a very generic musical score,
wooden acting, and borrowed material. Perhaps the only good that comes
from this is Jessica Alba, whose sexy and innocent charm keeps this
movie afloat, albeit barely.

Good Luck Chuck is a totally different movie from the one advertised.
The ads showed that this movie was going to be a charming romantic
movie featuring plenty of Cook and plenty of Alba. Unfortunately, we
get crude Dane Cook and very little Jessica Alba, and then plenty of
preventable boobs. The story here revolves around Chuck (Dane Cook), a
man who from a young age receives a hex that allows for him to get with
women, but whenever they leave him the next man that female meets will
be "The One." He takes advantage of this curse until he realizes that
he will become love-deprived as long as the hex exists. In the middle
of the crisis he meets a beautiful penguin expert Cam (Jessica Alba)
whom instantly brings out the best in him.

Explaining why the film fails would require a lot more words than
allowed, so let's just point out the major issues. Let's begin with the
writing. It was a good idea turned sour with filler material, terrible
jokes, and no heart. Our main character isn't exactly likable until he
is on the brink of destruction over our lead female. Chuck's best
friend is an even more disgustingly awful character in more ways than
one. The lack of chemistry between everybody in the movie is a major
concern, but between the two best friends is far beyond awful. The only
consistently likable character once again is Cam. Attempting to reach
the college crowd, we see plenty of cleavage, undressing, and Frat
pack-style humor. Unfortunately, it fails to bring in the heart and
good content that the recent Frat Pack movies contain. Unlike the adult
comedies we've seen recently, this movie tries much too hard to earn
the "R" rating, and it only takes away from its appeal. Has too much
crudeness to be considered a date movie, even with its romantic plot
entangled.

Dane Cook is overrated on stand-up, and not any better on-screen.
Perhaps with good direction, we can see a decent romantic comedic lead
out of him, but that is about it. His improvising fails, his line are
sometimes delivered flat, and he just doesn't have the charm that we
see in Owen Wilson, Will Ferrell, Steve Carell, or Seth Rogen. On the
other hand, Jessica Alba pulls a nice performance as the beautiful yet
hard-to-get Cam. A noteworthy oddity is that in the previews it shows
that she is very clumsy, yet in the film it's a trait that becomes
quickly forgotten. She handles herself well with the little material
she is given, as she gives the movie its bit of energy that it
desperately needs time and time again. Every other female in the movie
was in it only because her jugs were a respectable size or in order to
be ridiculed by everyone else.

The main issue of Good Luck Chuck is that it is totally unaware of what
it is; it is unsure of what kind of movie it should bethen it winds up
failing on every genre it tried imitating. Trailer shows it's a quirky
romantic comedyfailure. Then in the movie we see an attempt to gross
us out, an attempt to arose us with all the nudity, then tries to teach
us about love by offering a bit of sentimental valuefailure. Fires on
all cylinders but miss every single time. It is extremely hard to take
this movie seriously in terms of the lovey-dovey material when we see
an entire montage of Dane Cook sleeping with different women or there
is a moment dedicated to seeing a penguin eating his own feces.

First-time director Mark Helfrich should know better than to riddle
this good idea with clichés, explored ideas, and Dane Cook material.
Helfrich has been in the business for a very long time, and could have
really spun this short story by Steve Glenn into a creative romantic
comedy. Instead, it tries much too hard to be like Old School, Wedding
Crashers, 40-Year-Old Virgin, and other R-comedies that have helmed a
good amount of money. To be able to predict the next several scenes in
the movie is never really a good sign either.

Bottom Line: A mess from start to finish, we once again see Dane Cook
trying to transfer his success from the mic into the movie screens but
with no success at all. It does not help that he has an untalented cast
of writers and cameramen behind this trash, but Cook's inability to
expand his brand of humor isn't exactly easy to work with either.
Besides Alba, there are no admirable traits in this movie, and that
even includes the grotesque amount of nudityand the critic reviewing
this is a male. It takes guts to destroy a film that has beautiful
women in almost every scene, but Good Luck Chuck does exactly that. If
it had stuck to what the trailer was presenting, there could have been
some hope. Good Luck Chuck ends up being like the best friend in the
movie: crude, offensive, unworthy, pointless, and just all-around an
annoyance. Skip this pile of fish droppings.
<|_=00=_|>
Keep your expectations low and you'll enjoy 'Good Luck Chuck.' Overall,
the movie is generic and predictable. Cook and Alba do good jobs with a
paper-thin script and add some great moments with the physical humor
such as the flying dental tools and jump starting Dane Cook as seen in
the trailer. However, this is also one of those movies where most of
the best punchlines are in the trailer which is disappointing.

Expect lots of nudity from everyone including Cook but not Alba.
'Chuck' comes well stocked with lots of naked girls and breast jokes.
However, be warned if you're trying to make this a date movie and know
there are some very crude parts to this movie. 'Chuck' definitely earns
his 'R' rating.

Cook doesn't evolve much from 'Employee of the Month' here but he is
enjoyable. Alba is decent at the comedy. Together they have a alright
chemistry but the movie is so typical it takes away from the overall
experience. 

One last note. Cook's sidekick, played by Dan Fogler, is extremely
annoying and ruins the momentum of the movie on more than one occasion.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie marks, bar none, the greatest departure I have ever come
across between the response from both professional and IMDb critics and
my own personal opinion. This striking dichotomy has prompted me to
post my first ever IMDb review. Literally every professional critic I
could find gave this movie a terrible review, which I can only
attribute to closed mindedness and a lack of imagination. Apparently
every movie must fit neatly into a certain genre, and cannot deviate
from standard and infinitely repeated tropes. This movie was supposed
to be a "romantic comedy", a genre which I generally do not care for,
as they tend to be sappy, depressing, and just generally boring.
Nonetheless, virtually all reviewers seem to decry that this movie
refused to take out all the "smut" and revert itself into another in a
line of bland and lifeless romantic comedies. An oft repeated line I
found in reviews was that "this movie is much closer to Caligula than
Sleepless in Seattle". I personally cannot think of any higher praise
for a movie.

Other IMDb reviewers stated that the only people who would like this
movie are college frat boys who want to see "boobies". Well, I can tell
you that I and my girlfriend both have postgraduate degrees, and both
of us loved it. The movie is funny, cute, sexy, fast paced, and never
takes itself too seriously. All of the characters are good-natured and
fun, and display realistic responses and a great deal of humanity in
reacting to an unusual and very funny situation. Dane Cook's character
is a good person, in a realistic (non-Hollywood) sort of way. He tries
to help people, but certainly doesn't turn down sex with attractive
women when it is, quite literally, thrown at him. When he meets the
"love of his life", he ignores all of her (quite significant) flaws and
pursues her vigorously. Jessica Alba's character is sweet, funny, and
believable in the progression of her relationship with Cook. She is
refreshingly understanding and non-jealous about Cook's rather unusual
malady. Troy Gentile's character is criticized on these boards for
being misogynistic, but is certainly no more so than Jason Alexander's
character in "Shallow Hal". Gentile is often extremely funny, generally
well intentioned, and a good friend to Cook.

Many have commented that this movie is crude and disgusting. I honestly
do not see this at all. The humor is significantly less low-brow than,
say, "Superbad", with all of its crude penis jokes (and drawings). Yes,
there is nudity and sex, but I don't see why this should make a movie
disgusting. I also found it refreshing that the main two characters in
this movie were a dentist and a doctor, both educated, successful, and
well spoken. In just about all of the recent comedies I can think of,
the main characters are reject losers that the audience can enjoy
laughing at, rather than laughing with. In Good Luck Chuck, we don't
feel especially sorry for any of the characters, but we empathize with
and relate to them, and can laugh at their antics and escapades in a
good natured and fun way.

Do yourself a favor and ignore the critics. Go see this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
first off, i don't understand why or how dane cook became so
successful. there is nothing funny about him. he doesn't tell jokes -
he relates "stories" with very animated facial and physical gestures.
and, often, looks like a monkey. dan fogler, too, is quite possibly the
most annoying human being on the planet... especially his character in
this movie. he is a disgusting, misogynistic pig. i would love for
lionsgate to make "hostel III" starring dane cook and dan fogler - that
would be a movie i would pay to see twice. now, on to the movie itself:
the concept is ludicrous and makes absolutely no sense. seriously, this
film must have been written by and made for people with nonexistent
IQ's... because anybody that can tie their own shoes would realize how
absurd this movie is and would never plunk down $10 for this piece of
cinematic tripe. to even suggest that hundreds of beautiful women could
never find a decent man on their own, and would have to resort to
sleeping with a d-bag like dane cook to find a husband, is an offense
to women everywhere. this movie is so incredibly misogynistic... where
women are depicted as clueless, desperate pieces of "t+a"... that even
i, a man and non-feminist, was offended by it. and we're supposed to
like this schmuck because he agrees to sleep with his overweight
secretary out of the goodness of his heart and says, "i'll only think
of you (when we have sex)." please. please, please, please, if there is
any justice in the world this movie will make $2 at the box office and
garbage like this will STOP BEING MADE! this movie is not funny - it is
an insult to anyone with a brain or a heart. just see "knocked up" or
"superbad" instead, to see how to actually make a comedy that is both
hilarious and heartfelt.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I thought that this movie was going to be extremely crude from
what my friends told me. Honestly, it wasn't really that bad, I laughed
and enjoyed it; it wasn't Dumb and Dumber, but it was pretty good. I
don't know why Richard Roper said it was extremely crude and terrible,
he's stupid if you ask me. Now there was a lot more sex then I
expected, but if you can handle that montage of sex scenes, then you
will enjoy the rest of the movie. It was better than Superbad, I'll
tell you that much, I liked it and I hope that some people will give it
a chance, rather than listen to Roper and not see it. This movie is for
mature viewers, that I agree with, but it is not one of the worst
movies of 2007.
<|_=00=_|>
Ermm....All I can say if you want to watch a movie with load of sexual
content, nudity and dumb laughs, you may like it. If you want to watch
a clever flick, this is not for you. Well, you may get some laughs, it
is not bad but it is not good; that means it is just an average movie.
Basically, I thought I would have fun watching it as the hot Jessica
Alba stars in it.

The story is dead simple, Dane Cook's character was chosen to sleep
with a girl but he did not want to and this goth girl cursed him. The
future comes, those girls who slept with him will find their true love
but not him. Chuck ( Dane Cook) wants romance and meets Cam ( Jessica
Alba) he soon falls in love with her, the rest of the story is the
usual type of romance. The amusing parts are when Cam seems to be
always a careless girl, like when closing the door of a car and then
her skirt gets stuck in it and the she pulls....her skirt gets ripped.
The funny thing about this movie. It tries hard to get people laughing
with its sexual contents and the usual banging into items. You got a
choice to watch this. Whatever your taste is, Jessica alba is still
hot. Jessica alba is starting to be a famous actress, her upcoming
movies- Awake and The Eye. If you think you will laugh at all funny
sexual contents and dumb scenes, you will laugh at it. Some people may
find funny and some do not.

Those who can't bear to see foolish people banging into items like a
lamppost and those who hate disgusting jokes, steer away.
<|_=00=_|>
I approached this film with an open mind. The reviews had been bad but
I films of this genre generally do. Besides any movie with Jessica Alba
is worth a try in my opinion!

The concept is good enough and should form a strong comedic element but
I laughed about once throughout the movie. I don't know if it's just me
but I found the opening kind of wrong and uncomfortable. The kids
looked about 10 or 11 and the goth girl asks Charlie to show her his
penis! She then forces herself onto him and curses him thus setting up
the movie. I just found it unlikely that an 11 year old girl would act
or talk in that way. 

Despite this weird opening I was still confident it could be a decent
movie. I was wrong. Problem? Dane Cook. I saw Employee of the Month
(pretty poor but not as bas as this) and Dan In Real Life (good apart
from Cook) and found Cook to be intensely irritating. If you think Ben
Stiller is annoying with his constant 'I'm a good guy who's unlucky in
love' then you should see Dane Cook. He can't act, he isn't funny and
his gormless expression which is intended to show emotion just grates
after awhile. 

So basically every girl who is with him then goes onto meet Mr Right
after they split up with him. Predictability ensues and his thoroughly
unlikable friend makes the film drag with few jokes capable of raising
a laugh. The shame here is that Alba is sweet and the scenes around the
penguins are amusing with her brother and her clumsiness raising this
film to acceptable. Also the scenes with Alba and Cook before they date
are funny with Alba's incredible bad luck with accidents. 

This is where the film peaks however, it then steadily declines into
absolute trash. It is impossible to care for the relationship. All I
was thinking was that Alba should get a new agent because this is
atrocious. Cook takes the movie to absurd levels with an over the top
display of love in which he seems to become more of a stalker than
admirer. 

I doubt that many of you will last long through this movie. Believe me
the ending isn't worth waiting for. And a warning to you all is do not
stay for the credits. I was greeted by the most disgusting and
distasteful image that you'll see. 

Good Luck Chuck is basically a rom-com with a nastiness to it. It's
like the makers were trying to make a trashy sex comedy with a heart.
They failed. This movie would have been far more successful had it cut
out all the lewdness and Dane Cook! 

I don't mind a sex comedy which has outright lewdness and isn't trying
to give it any heart. American Pie presents Beta House for instance is
pointless but fun because it is meant to disgust and amuse in equal
measure. It doesn't have a story and you don't care about the
characters, but at least it's not trying. With Good Luck Chuck you feel
as though they were trying and this is the biggest tragedy of all.
<|_=00=_|>
What do I care about credibility? I thought that "Good Luck Chuck" was
funny.

Of course it goes without saying that "Good Luck Chuck" really is a
load of rubbish. However, it does deliver exactly what it says on the
tin (or in the trailer) and you can hardly complain about being misled
if you hand over your pounds, dollars, rand or groats to see it.

"Good Luck Chuck" is gross, crass, sexist, probably misogynist, has
lots and lots of gratuitous nudity (even if the lovely Jessica Alba's
no nudity clause just about manages to stay intact - boo, hiss!), fat
jokes, slapstick comedy and penguin porn.

Actually, thinking about it, "Good Luck Chuck" has a pretty good setup
for a porno comedy. Dentist Charlie is cursed in that every woman he
sleeps with eventually leaves him and finds true love in the arms of
their very next partner. Women flock to Charlie and that's great, but
then Charlie meets his perfect girl. Can Charlie break the curse?

'Course he can. But you knew that.

As romantic comedies go, "Good Luck Chuck" isn't bad. There are a lot
worse movies about.

I laughed a lot. Forgive me.
