
I'm amazed by the comments posted about this film. God forbid a
director make a simple attempt to create an environment that is not
100% realism. God forbid a director enter the world of the
super-natural and surreal. I found Dissapearances a wonderful film,
perhaps Craven's best, if you actually do a little work yourself. My
favorite question about this film is, "Well gosh. What the hell does it
mean?" It means whatever the hell you want it to! What about the owl?
What about Bujold showing up at random times? What about this. What
about that? My God, have we gotten become so moronic by viewing the
films of Michael Bay that we NEED to be told what to think and feel?
The film is an adventure. Sit back and try to figure it out.
Kristofferson gives a fantastic performance as does Gary Farmer, who is
the dry comedic relief of the show. The photography is excellent, maybe
the best Craven has had since "Rivers" and the editing is perfect. Give
this film a chance and if you don't get it the first time you see it
(which I did not)watch it again. You will be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I watched a copy of "Disappearances" this evening. We both
enjoyed it very much! We had both read the novel about a year ago and
so were familiar with the Mosher story. This very expansive and in some
ways too fanciful novel (the cloned abbot in the monastery comes to
mind) was very enjoyable, but we think Craven did a fine job of
translating it to the screen without having to include every aspect of
the original text.

All performances were well done. Especially fine was the work of Gary
Farmer (Henry) and Charlie McDermott (Wild Bill). Kris Kristofferson
(Quebec Bill) was better in the latter part of the film, but (and
perhaps this was intentional) was more caricaturish early on. He became
more of a real character later as his situation became more serious.
The smaller parts by William Sanderson and Bill Raymond were also
enjoyable. The parts by Genevieve Bujold and Lothaire Bluteau were more
problematic, both seeming lackluster in comparison to the others. The
only real disappointment was Luis Guzman, whose part as Brother
Hilliare was so reduced as to be inconsequential.

We feel an excellent job was done of handling what could have been
expensive special effects by implying, without showing, such things as
the train wreck. Too much emphasis is placed on graphic representation
in today's films, when suggestion can be just as, or in some cases,
more effective (as in special effects that don't work!).

If we have a serious objection to the film, it is the confusion that is
generated in the earlier part caused by including many varied elements
of the book without some sort of unifying dialog (perhaps a voice-over
by an adult version of Wild Bill would help). This problem is relieved
later in the film, but by that time a portion of the audience may be
lost.

Our congratulations on a fine cinematic experience that deserves wide
distribution.

We have also seen Craven's two previous Mosher adaptations, and
consider this to be his best! One more thing  kudos to the
cinematographer for the beauty of the production! Outside of our own
Northwest, the Vermont Kingdom County is one of the most beautiful
parts of our beautiful nation.
<|_=00=_|>
"Disappearances" is a film I'll show to as many friends as possible,
and hopefully have many deeply stimulating conversations with others
who are stirred and haunted  in a good way  by its magic and beauty.
This has "cult classic of the best kind" written all over it, in the
sense that it has everything you'd want from a ripping good yarn of a
film, would appeal to someone who's favorite film was, say, "Raiders of
the Lost Arc" or "Rio Bravo", but plays by its own rules and those
*aren't* the rules that get a film a mega-promotional package. And
that's exactly why fans looking for something new will love it, and why
word of mouth on it'll spread. Writer-Director Jay Craven, working on a
small budget, performs the tricky balancing act of capturing the
excitement and suspense of the often over-the-top material, while
maintaining a humble, understated, down-to-earth tone. Here we have
bootleggers, drunken monks, drunken bootlegging monks, car and boat and
train chases, a spectral witch who disappears and reappears in the
damnedest times and places to offer wisdom, an undead whiskey-running
pirate straight out of New England folklore with a gang of henchmen 
seriously, what's not to like? -  and as an enthusiast and former
resident of Vermont, if I told you how much of this seems plausible,
you wouldn't believe me. 

The film captured everything best in the rugged, feisty, often
adventuresome spirit of the state of Vermont, depicting an outlaw
culture that thrived on the fringes of a fading northern frontier,
personified in Quebec Bill, a farmer in the Depression who must revert
to his old whiskey running practices to save the farm after his barn is
struck by lightning and burns down. This guy's my new movie-character
hero. His dynamic with friends/partners-in-crime Rat Kinneson (William
Sanderson) and Henry Coville (Gary Farmer), of how buddies together in
an outrageous, sometimes dangerous situation, each surviving and making
sense of things in his own way while putting up with each other - to
some degree surviving each other - is spot-on. Particularly that whole
scene in the tavern, and the delivery of the line "Because I couldn't
stand myself if I wasn't there to help you out of whatever you're about
to get into." Kris Kristofferson is amazing as Quebec Bill, deepening
my already considerable respect for someone who was already one of my
favorite musical artists, as are Sanderson and Farmer in their
respective roles. Years back, I had a chance to read the screenplay to
this film before it was produced. As a fan of the TV show "Deadwood,"
when I found out Sanderson was playing Rat, I thought, "Damn, that's
perfect!" And it's interesting to find Farmer in both this and "Dead
Man", as I found that film tonally and thematically similar, in its
dreamlike quality and embrace of fantastical, metaphorical imagery and
mystery, things that aren't always explained, yet actively invite the
audience to participate with their own imagination and come to their
own conclusions. "Disappearances" is, however, far less brutal, as well
as warmer and more inviting to like and identify with its characters.
Quebec Bill and crew are guys I'd like to hang out with. By the end of
the film, I wished I could stay in their world with them longer. It
left me longing for the things in the world that have *disappeared* --
SPOILIER WARNING -- as symbolized by Bill and Cordelia literally doing
so  END SPOILERS -- under the weight of "progress," even though only
the ghosts of many such things have been around to know in my own
lifetime. In that sense, I related to Wild Bill, and wanted to see
where life takes him from there.

Also a delightful surprise is the film's handling of its demonic
villain Carcajou, particularly Lothaire Bluteau in the role. In the
novel and script, he was a far less developed, more hulking ogre-like
monster, though clearly with a cunning brain. Here, he becomes
something far more ambiguous and complex. I don't think I've seen this
actor in anything else, though he should be seen more. Any time the
character's on screen, you can't take your eyes off him. Moments like
when he comes snarling onto the train waving that knife around were
genuinely terrifying, yet there were other times when I felt a strange
sympathy for him. I really wanted to see more of that character and
learn more about him, though truthfully such a character is generally
most effective when actually seen only in small doses, someone who
becomes an ominous off-screen ever-presence, sort of like Dracula in
Bram Stoker's original novel. And like Stoker's Dracula, Carcajou is in
many ways a personification of unresolved things within the good guys,
things they're not comfortable with, can't yet face within themselves,
things they're running from, manifested as a physical boogie-man onto
whom those fears become projected... someone from whom they must
literally run. Such metaphoric exploration is what's always truly
wonderful about the best fantasy in film and literature, light and
dark. And "Disappearances" certainly ranks with the best!
<|_=00=_|>
What a delight! In a market where we excuse bad scripts and flat
characters for a dozen more explosions, dazzling special effects, and
everything else twenty million dollars can buy, I love Disappearances
for its charm, its clever script handled by a well-appointed cast, and
its beautiful photography.

The movie is thoroughly rural. Like the countryside where it was
produced, it unfolds itself slowly but magnificently. Do not expect to
find your heart in your throat for two hours, followed by a climactic
and tidy resolution to the cosmos. Disappearances tells a story of
father and son, and it is rightly more of a process than a particular
event. In that regard, the plot development is stylistically more
similar to eastern European cinema than it is to its American peers.

With only a couple hitches (some characters are more prop than talent),
Disappearances' strong symbiosis of script and talent is the film's
greatest offering. The superb synergy of Farmer and McDermott with the
others, the perfect casting of Sanderson to character, and a good
performance by Kristofferson, have me pinching myself at times to
remember these people aren't actually family. Disappearances ventures
further, or more believably, into the psychology of its main characters
than many American films dare go.

That Jay Craven was ambitious with his budget shows at times during
Disappearances, but it becomes more of a mark of honor than a
detractor. This film is the antithesis to the contemporary action
blockbuster. The film moves slowly at times, and the action is not
always plausible, but the characters are for the most part enchanting.
Besides, our suspension of disbelief in the cinema is an aesthetic
choice above all, and I appreciate the way Disappearances, in its
fusion of magic realism and frontier, challenges me to look at movies
anew.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in Vermont during the Prohabition, Quebec Bill(Kris
Kristofferson)is desperate for cash after a freak lightning strike
burns his barn full of hay. Despite the warnings from his mystical
sister, Cordelia(Genevieve Bujold), he decides to go back to his old
ways and hatches a plan to steal whiskey from a Canadian whiskey
pirate. Quebec Bill and his 15-year old son Wild Bill(Charlie
McDermott)along with farm hand Rat(William Sanderson)and Henry
Coville(Gary Farmer), the senior Bill's brother-in-law, set out on a
treacherous journey across the Vermont/Canadian border to steal twenty
cases of whiskey. The trip proves to be unforgettable and a bit
haunting. The cinematography is beautiful and the acting is very
commendable. Also in the cast: Heather Rae, Luis Guzman and Lothaire
Bluteau.
<|_=00=_|>
This well-meant film falls just a bit short, and unfortunately in too
many areas.

The scenery is gorgeous, with vistas of north-central Vermont providing
the setting for this mid-century tale. Quebec Bill endeavors to go back
to his whiskey-running past in order to save his farm.

Going back and forth between scenes of magical realism and
straight-forward action, this film rarely hits its stride.

Kris Kristofferson as Quebec Bill seems pretty stilted, or else it's
his lines; or else his cross of Yankee and Quebecois accents. Anyway,
he just comes off as a low-key blow-hard. His dialogs with Gary
Farmer's Coville character do sparkle, though. William Sanderson's Rat
Kinneson is solid. Charlie McDermott shows some real potential as young
Wild Bill; but his part's not large enough to carry a scene and he
never steals one. Luis Guzman shows up on Lake Memphramagog (with a
fine stand-in performance by Lake Willoughby) as a monk with a
boys'n'the hood accent: who knows? And then there's Bujold's Cordelia:
an oracle like her namesake, she channels Yoda as she intones lines
like "You will marry a Quebec woman!"?!? Just too weird and nowhere
near enigmatic enough.

The end gets really choppy. Again a bad mix of magical realism and the
concrete. And Yoda never provides an answer we can understand.
<|_=00=_|>
Jay Craven's adaptation of Howard Frank Mosher's novel,
"Disappearances", is an unusual, beautifully photographed (by Wolfgang
Held, the same from the documentary "Metallica: Some Kind of Monster" -
small budget is not a big issue when there's real talent and passion
involved) western-style adventure that deserves to be discovered.

Kris Kristofferson has his finest hour as an actor playing Quebec Bill,
a schemer who resorts to whiskey-smuggling with his son, Wild Bill
(Charlie McDermott, "The Village"), in order to raise money to preserve
his herd as winter approaches. They cross the border into Canadian
wilderness, and embark on a wild, ghostly journey. Veteran, underrated
Geneviève Bujold (Oscar nominee for "Anne of the Thousand Days"; "Dead
Ringers") has a an important supporting role; the amazing character
actor Luis Guzmán ("Magnolia", "Boogie Nights"), Gary Farmer ("Ghost
Dog") and Lothaire Bluteau ("Jesus of Montréal", "Bent") are also part
of the ensemble. "Disappearances" is an original, mysterious (the
magical realism and metaphors make it refreshing and intriguing like a
Terrence Malick flick on a cold day) film that doesn't fit in a single
genre, for it dares to take a particular course and go all the way,
faithful to its core. No apologies, Mr. Craven; your mission's
accomplished, and everyone who experienced it with an open mind is
satisfied. For those who didn't get it, well, it's their loss. Let them
anticipate the next Michael Bay, and everyone's happy in their own
shoes. 8/10 (a high rating for me).
<|_=00=_|>
While I applaud the makers of "Disappearances" for managing to
accomplish a lot with very little, in the end they put too much on
their plates, so much so that the movie ends up as a disappointment.
For what was a really low budget, the movie looks great, with plenty of
period detail as well as some good cinematography. And writer/director
Jay Craven also manages to get pretty good performances from his cast
of actors. Unfortunately, Craven ultimately decided that his story
would not be told simply and straight. Instead, he throws in a lot of
mystifying material, mainly with the unexplained visions the teenage
boy in the movie has throughout. But there are also some plot points
(like characters disappearing) that are simply not explained. I
understand that Craven was probably trying to make something different
than expected, but ironically a more straightforward telling probably
would have been more successful. I admit that the messy results do grab
your interest at times while you're watching the whole package... but
then again, so do some car accidents.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1932 in Kingdom County, Vermont, a fire destroys much of the
family's hay. They can't feed all their cattle and they can't get more
hay, so they have to sell some of their cattle. Quebec Bill used to run
whiskey, and that may be the only way to make money. Quebec Bill's
father disappeared, according to Aunt Cordelia, as did many who ran
whiskey. Quebec Bill came back to Vermont because of his father after
working on ranches and as a lumberjack in Montana. Quebec Bill's
brother-in-law Henry has run whiskey before, but he's reluctant to now.
Wild Bill wants to go along but his mother Evangeline? has to be
persuaded. Rat, who helps run the farm, also goes along but isn't sure
he wants to. 

The group crosses the border into Canada, where whiskey is legal. Two
monks see nothing wrong with helping out and they agree to store what
the guys get. But the guys have no money. They have to steal from the
family that sells most of the whiskey, and violence becomes necessary.
Wild Bill doesn't want to kill, but he has to. He is occasionally
visited by his Aunt Cordelia, who appears and disappears mysteriously. 

Kris Kristofferson does a great job. Quebec Bill is such a nice person,
even though he is tough and willing to kill when necessary. He cares
about his son. He loves nature, and there is plenty of nice scenery.
And he is a man of faith. He believes Jesus approves of whatever he
does.

Charlie McDermott is best known as irresponsible and rebellious Axl on
"The Middle", but he is a completely different character here. He isn't
the brightest student, but he responsible and moral and certainly not
rebellious. And yet he would like some excitement in his life.

While not a comedy, this movie does provide some laughs. William
Sanderson is probably best known as Larry, the brother of the two
Darryls, and here he is mostly comic relief, though he takes his faith
more seriously than Quebec Bill. Luis Guzman as what sounds to me like
Brother Hilarious lives up to that name, though he is only in a couple
of scenes. 

Genevieve Bujold does an excellent job as Aunt Cordelia, who is a voice
of reason and provides Wild Bill plenty of guidance and real Christian
morals.

If you like steam trains, this movie has one, and an engineer who is
quite a character.

It's worth seeing if you like stories about macho men in the woods.
<|_=00=_|>
this film to me is the best craven film so far in his career. the
actors are amazing with actors like Lothaire Blouteau, Genevieve
Bujould, and the always funny Luis Guzman. i was blown away by the
visual effects and the magic realism was complex but very interesting!!
i recommmend this movie highly!VERY GOOD!!! i think Charlie McDermott
did a great job as young wild bill Bohnone and Kris Kristofferson did
his best acting in years as quebec bill bohnome! top notch Dare i say
this movie is Oscar Worthy? YES i do! I think that Genevev Bujould
should get best supporting actress, Charlie McDermott for best
supporting actor, and Jay Craven as best director. this film really
blew me away. i still am thinking about it which is the sign of a great
movie!
