
Let's keep this short and sweet. If you enjoy the video games, you will
more than likely enjoy the movie. It's very easy to follow, the acting
can be downright terrible at times (but very solid from Olyphant who
was a GREAT choice to play Agent 47), the special FX are loud and neat
to look at, there's lots of explosive action-packed gun fights, and the
hot chick gets naked. The only thing I have against the film was that
it was a little dull and awkward in the beginning, but it picked up
about 15 minutes in and kept it rollin' until the ending. Oh, and the
hot chick gets naked.

You want to go to the movies and have a discussion afterwards? Go watch
"Lions for Lambs." You want to go have a fun time at the movies with
your friends? Check out "Hitman." Word on the street is there's lots of
blood and explosions (and a hot naked chick).
<|_=00=_|>
As contradictory as it may sound, finding a good mindless action movie
is actually a rather challenging task. Luckily we live in a world where
adapting stories and characters from mindless action video games is
commonplace, and the creators of the Hit-man movie have gone to great
lengths to showcase plenty of the blood, bullets, and babes requisite
of a proper translation of the popular assassin adventure.

Raised to be an elite assassin, Agent 47 (Timothy Olyphant) carries out
jobs for a mysterious organization and for a price. When his employer
sets him up in a political assassination attempt, the hit-man must
uncover the leaders behind the conspiracy while simultaneously
protecting a sassy prostitute and being hunted by both the Russian
Secret Police and two determined Interpol agents.

Wasting little time with a tedious back story, (and thankfully straying
from contrary religious tones as suggested by several trailers),
Hit-man jumps right into the plot, full of political conspiracies,
secret agency machinations, police investigations, and other reasons to
have a gunfight in a crowded location. While those unfamiliar with the
source material may question Agent 47's origins, it's actually rather
commendable (and practical) to forego such setup and just plunge
directly into current events with only the accepted knowledge that our
antihero is the most skilled of killers. That being said, the story
does convolute itself with excessive setting changes and rehashes of
political thrillers mixed with revenge mysteries, but the plot never
interferes with that which is most important  the action.

Several unique scenes of bloodshed find their way into Hit-man, and as
expected the body count reaches an impressive sum. While not overloaded
with meaningless violence, a few sequences stand out as attaining just
the right amount of machismo cool, most notably the decimation of a
drug lord's domicile and a four-way elite assassin duel apparently
inserted to mimic the combat abilities present in the game. At a few
points throughout the actioner it becomes evident that everyone
involved is trying a little too hard to evoke awe, but some fast
hand-held shots and a few guns pointing at the screen later, all is
forgiven.

Though Timothy Olyphant is likely not the first actor to enter one's
mind on hearing of a Hit-man movie, he accomplishes the surprising feat
of impressing upon the audience that he is indeed Agent 47. Plus the
sharp black suits with red ties don't hurt. Relative newcomer Olga
Kurylenko, who exhibits an appearance resembling a cross between
Catherine Zeta-Jones and Sophie Marceau, was also a wise choice,
especially to tease the viewer with another staple prominent in the
Hit-man games.

Hit-man successfully retains the necessary seriousness inherent in the
subject matter and while it rarely covers new ground in the
action-adventure genre, it also never slips into silly mockery (and it
still provides plenty of references to its video game roots).
Sacrificing story for style and bloodshed is much appreciated here, and
entertainment of this nature is a rare treat over those that try too
hard to be that which they are not. Hit-man doesn't indulge itself in
such a charade and the result is a fun and sexy romp through the world
of professional carnage.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
This by far is the best video game adaptation movie I have ever seen.
It stayed mostly true to the games but instead the agents were orphans
instead of clones. There were many great action scenes and nods to the
games, such as Agent 47 stealing various outfits, his weapons and his
odd ways of killing his targets. the movie reminded me of an all new
game in itself.

Not to mention Nika (Olga Kurylenko) was amazingly HOT in this movie
and has various topless scenes which made me happy :) and she wasn't a
bad actress either. I think Timothy Olyphant was THE perfect Agent 47
and captured the character perfectly I would definitely see this movie
multiple times!!!!! I highly recommend this movie to fans of the video
games or if you love action movies altogether!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Being a big fan of the Hit-man games, I was fairly worried when I heard
that they were going to make a movie based on it because movies based
on video games don't tend to be very good movies...

But after seeing it last night, I must say I was pleasantly surprised.
It was actually quite a good movie. It may not win an Oscar or
anything, but it's amazing to see Agent 47 up on the big screen.
Timothy Olyphant does a surprisingly good job of portraying him too.

The love interest is a bit awkward to anyone who knows Agent 47's
nearly complete lack of emotion in that department, but despite what
the trailer may lead you to expect, it really doesn't go very far
outside of what you've come to know in the games (and what happens when
she tries to seduce him is absolutely hilarious and very much in the
Agent 47 tradition).

It is indeed a violent movie, and 47 is as cold-blooded as you'd expect
him to be. Seeing it tends to make me wish other movie heroes had the
same level of guts, just to shoot the bad guy in the face instead of
letting him live or anything silly like that. The fight scenes with the
other assassins from the Agency are also very well done and quite a
treat to see.

All in all, it's quite a good movie. Definitely worth paying to see in
the theaters. Hopefully there'll be another one!
<|_=00=_|>
First, I've heard mostly mixed comments about this movie. But, I'm glad
that for the first time in a long time, an "action" movie has had an
in-depth plot. Not to mention, they captured the personality of 47 near
perfectly. When I went to see this, I didn't think I would like it
because Timothy Olyphant played such a convincing geek in Die Hard 4,
but he did an incredible job of changing roles. The basis behind the
movie is that the hit-man is sent to assassinate someone, but it goes
bad, which results in him picking up Olga Kurylenko. Now, they tried to
add some jokes in, and he does do some things that are completely out
of character (such as smiling), but for the most part, he plays the
part very well. Now, the hit-man games aren't known for the best plot
of all time, but, since the movie focused more on plot then on actual
action, it feels a bit refreshing since the games are basically
"Target, Money, Kill". I'd like to see the next Hit-man game focus more
on the plot.

Anyway, it's got a great story, 47 is for the most part, played as he
should be, and there is enough action to keep you from getting bored.

Ranking wise, it's definitely no "Die Hard 3" or "Big Fish", but it is
probably one of the best video-game to movie transitions thats been
done in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
As we are all well aware of most film adaptations of video games are
usually very poor. This is not the case with Hit-man. Hit-man has done
something that no other video game film has been able to pull off
before. It is entertaining to the general audience who has not plaid
the video game, by use of witty remarks, dark humor, and excellent
action scenes. On the other hand fans of the video game series will be
pleasantly surprised that Hollywood has not butchered the concept of
the video games. There has been much debate over the actor who played
47; all actors did an excellent job. I was very pleased.

Bottom line: If you enjoy the video games  see it. If you don't know
anything about the video games but want to see a movie similar to Bourn
Identity then see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I've played Hit-man and have really been excited to see the movie. At
first I was wondering how will they ever pull off the Hit-man movie but
after watching it, its one of the few games to movie adaptations that I
really liked. Not a perfect adaptation, but the best so far compared to
others out there. Though Jason Statham was my initial bet, Timothy
Olyphant did a good job with portraying Agent 47.

Aspects of the game was incorporated in the movie and they didn't
overkill with stupid ideas. Action was pretty good and I like the fight
scenes. Agent 47 in the movie does live up to his cold killer
reputation in spite of a girl being introduced. Its a good thing they
keep it nice and cold.

The only thing I noticed is that Timothy looks too pretty cute to be
Agent 47. Other than that, its good.
<|_=00=_|>
A disturbing trend that seems to have no end in sight is the constant
making of movies based upon video games. The fact of the matter is that
these movies largely end up being horrendous misinterpretations of the
source material. As evidenced by such cinematic horror shows like the
Resident Evil movies, Street Fighter, Super Mario Brothers, Tomb
Raider, and every movie by Uwe Boll. Of course there is the occasional
movie that proves the maxim wrong, I for one enjoyed the Final Fantasy
movie: The Spirits Within. Granted it had next to nothing to do with
the game series apart from the name, but I was able to enjoy it. There
was also the Silent Hill movie, that was great due to the fact that it
was able to maintain a majority of the atmosphere from the games, and
the plot was largely consistent with the mythos of the Silent Hill
series. Unfortunately the latest movie to try to adapt a video game has
largely failed to take even the smallest modicum of what made the games
enjoyable.

Hit-man, a movie based on a good action series, isn't exactly a bad
movie. If you go into the movie without having played the games by IO
Interactive, then you'll in all likelihood be entertained by the action
this movie has to offer. Fans of the games however will most likely be
left feeling cheated by the movie, and it's radical changing of the
main character of the series. In the movie it explains that 47 and the
other bald headed assassins were chosen at birth to become guinea pigs
of a top-secret plot to breed trained killers who feel no remorse. Now
if this reminds you of anything, you're a nerd, and yes it's totally
ripping off part of the plot for the old TV show: Dark Angel. I don't
mean to go all nerdy video game fan boy on you, but, in the games 47
wasn't chosen at birth to become the bad ass assassin he is today. He's
a clone of four major criminals and a scientist to make a flawless
human. Not once in the entire series of games do they state whether or
not 47 has a childhood. If they had felt the need to do an origin story
for 47, why not just base it off the story elements of the original
Hit-man: Codename 47 game? And throw in bits of the missions from
Contracts.

Before I continue on with the review I would like to state the fact
that this movie was written by Skip Woods. The man that brought us the
terrible movie Swordfish. While I had nothing overly against that film,
it bears mention due to the fact that at times the plot of that movie
was positively horrid, and as such Woods needs to be beaten with an
oar.

The movie starts out with an Interpol agent returning to his home, 47
is there sitting in his chair. Aiming his gun at fearless Dougray
Scott. The movie then keenly informs us that the bulk of the story
takes place three months prior to this scene. 47 has been hired to take
out the Russian prime minister Mikhail Belicoff. The hit goes off with
seemingly no problem, but Diana, 47's handler for the Agency (called
"The Organization" in this) informs him that there's a witness he needs
to eliminate. The witness, Nika is played by the wonderful Olga
Kurylenko, when 47 goes to eliminate Nika another hit-man from Agency
arrives to kill 47 and Nika. 47 escapes and confronts Diana about how
Nika wasn't a witness, and whether or not someone at the agency double
crossed him. While this is happening the Russian police is sending in
its crack squad of cops who look like they were stolen from the anime
Jin-Roh: The Wolf Brigade, to capture or kill 47. Dougray has a problem
with this as he wants 47 alive for questioning, as he's wanted for
multiple hundreds of murders across the globe. How he was to establish
it was only 47, I'll never know.

After a moderately decent action scene 47 kidnaps Nika and takes her to
a St. Petersburg train station where he's attacked by a cadre of Agency
trained hit men. The problem I have with this part is the fact that the
assassins are fundamentally working toward the same goal, kill 47. At
this point when 47 is outgunned by three other assassins, instead of
just ventilating 47 they aim their guns at each other. At which point
47 proposes that they die with honor, and brandish some wakizashi
swords and proceed to fight. The fight scene is decent enough, but it
was just pointless. Where was 47 hiding those little buggers, and why
didn't 47's would-be killers just kill him and then go knock off for a
while at the nearest bar? I would go further into the plot, but really,
I don't feel like spoiling it any more than I already have. Suffice to
say that I didn't exactly enjoy the story to the movie. It took far too
many liberties with the character of 47, and far too much of it seemed
implausible from the perspective of realism. Also there's the
questionable choice in casting Timothy Olyphant as the cold steely eyed
assassin: Mr. 47. I don't hate the guy, it's just that I think he's a
highly inappropriate choice. Granted he was a decent enough actor in
that atrocious show Deadwood. He just looks too young, and not at all
what a ruthless killer should look like.

Overall the movie is a mediocre action film that people who've never
played the games will most likely enjoy. Fans of the series however
would probably hate it due to the large number of liberties they take
with the character and source material. Overall the movie is not worth
the time to watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Alright, this movie might have 2 different ratings whether you're
seeing this because you're a fan of the game or if you're a casual
viewer of action movies.

This is a review from a fan of the game series, therefore the negative
vote. If I was to watch this without any connection to the original
material I would probably be more entertained.

This is really my problem with this movie (and many other adaptations).
I'd rather if any other name was used (my suggestion: Agent Hairless
Bourne) because this movie is just a big 100-min-long cliché that tries
to profit from Hit-man's fan-base at the same time with just enough
game references. I prayed this wouldn't be another "Doom - The Movie"
but it wasn't too far off.

As I said before, if you're not into the games and just want to watch a
Jason Bourne clone, then this is your movie.

Now if you're a series fan, read on. When I heard an adaptation was
under development I wasn't too excited, but I had some hope. Hope
because there could be something new that could be done in the movie
industry. Now, what's new about 47 that could make him a whole new
animal than all other cold blooded killers and secret agents out there?
What makes that character, 47, different? 

1st: He's a clone. The result of a gene enhancing research program that
turned on his creator and became a professional freelance hit-man.
They've scrapped all that and rewritten his origins completely. Now how
can they still call him by the same name after that? I mean, if someone
asks me what's the story behind this character, I will now have to
answer with another question: "Which one? The movie hit-man or the
game's hit-man?" The "adaptation" dies right there in my opinion.

2nd: Agent 47 is the result of a genetic experiment and post training,
aimed at creating a superior human being, in strength and mind, with no
conscience. That's exactly what he is in the games, but as I feared it
would get (knowing how filmmakers tend to think of what people want to
see on-screen) he shows too much of a conscience in the movie with an
all-too-expected female role that he shows affection to, that he even
promises to visit after they part on the train.

3rd: One big difference of the Hit-man games, from other action games,
is the fact that agent 47 is rewarded for being as silent as possible,
a ghost as he's referred to in the movie. A big gun fight in a crowded
room is a big no-no, leaving witnesses alive is not his thing too and
usually, targets tend to die from strange accidents rather than in a
bathroom filled with bodyguards with bullets on their heads. The movie
tells a story of a whole different character... I mean, what's up with
that scene to kill Udre? I will go see a Rambo movie if I want to, I
will not go watch a Hit-man-branded movie to see that overused
matrix-cliché royal mess. Oh, and the countless female witnesses that
survived that scene? That would be called a "restart mission" in my
book.

4th: Another distinctive mark of the Hit-man game brand is his
proficiency to disguise of all types of people after he properly
disposes of their bodies in the course of each mission. I remember him
doing this once in the end of the movie. I can't be bothered to watch
it again so I might be wrong on the number of times he's done this but
the fact that I can't remember that happening is a good indication of
how overlooked that "feature" was.

So this is what made me hate this movie. Not because the movie is bad
in essence, but because of this horrible trend of people trying to
profit from a well-developed brand with well-developed characters, and
rewrite everything that makes them what they are. Had this movie been
given a different name, I would have enjoyed it a lot more.

Other slightly bad points: 1) Realism. This one I start to overlook on
these movies... as much as it pisses me off, it's so common, that my
expectations are lower right off the bat. The scene with the 4 hit-men
is a good example of that. Why on earth would those cold-blooded
killing machines decrease their chances of completing their contracts
by holding fire, closing in on each other and then just stand there, to
successfully stare at each others ugly faces for all that time until
agent 47 breaks the ice? And why on earth were those agents pointing
their weapons at each other instead of completing their assignment by
ventilating 47? If it was argued that they were rivals between
themselves, then why didn't they kill each other with the blades too?
But that's OK, it's a scene made to look good and stylish (and
mindless). Now just wait until someone figures out that a scene can
look good, stylish AND make sense at the same time! 2) Olyphant. Looks
too young and not so ruthless as the game model. His voice isn't
anywhere near David Bateson's (47's game voice) coldness and low-tone
power. The acting wasn't bad though, it probably wasn't a very
demanding role emotionally, but still, he delivered what it would take
for his role. The problem is that, even though he did well, I feel that
the choice could have been much closer to what the game offers.

So, this is it, the score of 3 represents the view of a huge series fan
that had his expectations higher than the casual action movie fan. 3 is
for the satisfying acting performances and the action scenes that would
probably result in a higher score from someone unaware of the original
material.
<|_=00=_|>
It was dull, it was boring, the acting was terrible, olyphant was not
believable, Olga was pretty good, the Scottish guy was sometimes out of
sync and T-Bag's (Knepper's) accent was poorly executed and sometimes
not even there... The action scenes were okay, the plot was pathetic
and somewhat fantastical, everything was preplanned so perfectly, oh
i'll give them a key to the church in my briefcase because i definitely
know that they'll find me, i'll kill the brother and they'll have the
ceremony in that exact church, then i'll wait in the room and get
arrested and make my escape... There's a man who thinks ahead. I heard
that it was rubbish and what not so i was hopeful that it would be
better than I thought but it wasn't... I might be harsh, but it's just
a warning to those that could spend their 12 dollars elsewhere... I
would wait till it comes out on DVD then hire it on one of those cheap
days, one dollar Monday's or something...
