
I saw this movie last night at a special screening for audience
feedback. Paul Walker really can act - I was pleasantly surprised. I
originally thought he was only cast for his looks, but can see he has
good acting abilities.

Movie was funny, worked well and I enjoyed it. The action scene in the
kitchen was great and intense, kept me on the edge of my seat.

Lawrence Fishburn - as always - great! He's a solid actor and his role
as the DEA Agent worked perfectly.

Paul's pretty love interest (Olivia Wilde from the OC)chemistry was
lacking.

Chuck Liddell, although was only in the beginning of the movie was
convincing. There was also a girl named Ashley who I would have like to
see more of. She's hot! 

The kid looks like he'll have a career ahead of him. The relationship
between the kid and Paul Walker worked well and was believable. Not
sure where I've seen him before, but he may have a promising career.

I liked the sequence of the movie - it starts with a mystery and the
flashback kept me trying to figure out what was going to happen next. I
liked the movie can't wait to see on see it on the big screen. Hope if
comes out soon.
<|_=00=_|>
While it's no worse than much of the action movie junk that makes it to
theatres, Bobby Z, originally entitled The Death and Life of Bobby Z,
is a action thriller with Tim Kearney (Walker) as our hero. Kearney is
a convict who's an ex-Marine and clearly not so much a bad person as
one who has frequently found himself in trouble due to circumstance
rather than intent. This gives director John Herzfeld, whose own career
hacs been on less than an up-tick since the appropriately named 15
Minutes came and went in about that long, a premise for having a good
guy hero who still fits the label of a tough convict.

The slightly convoluted storyline sees Kearney  whose life is in peril
since he killed a biker gang boss in prison (self defence, of course) 
offered an opportunity to walk free, as long as he's willing to
impersonate a drug kingpin who happens to look just like Kearney, and
who has just died. Fishburne plays the Drug Enforcement Agency cop who
puts Kearney up to this task.

Before you can say 'gunfights are fun', Kearney is being shot at by the
cops, manhandled by Mexican drug thugs, pursued by the bikers, and
generally in demand by everyone, regardless of whether they think he's
Kearney or Bobby Z. Our hero, of course, dodges the bullets, battles
the bad guys, befriends Bobby Z's son (who has never met his dad) and
romances a beautiful woman (Olivia Wilde) whose relationship with the
bad guys is a bit hazy, but clearly quite intimate.

Filled with head scratching twists and cornball dialogue, this is not
exactly a brilliant film. Yet it's got a slick look and at least a few
passably enjoyable action scenes. And Walker, while never likely to be
mistaken for a Shakespearian thespian, has the good looks and charisma
to lead the way here. At least his character isn't loaded down with as
many stupidly threatening lines as Fishburne's. Wilde also does a
passable job as Kearney's conflicted love interest; she's mainly called
upon to look good (which she accomplishes rather easily), but also
doesn't muff her lines when she does have something to say.

Movie was funny, entertaining and I enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
For a seemingly low budget film, Bobby Z wasn't too bad. Moves pretty
quickly, but with a weak storyline and plot, it is clear why it was a
straight to DVD feature. Paul Walker does a decent job with a character
that an Actor won't be able to do much with, except go with the flow.
No real surprises, or twists and turns, just straight to the point B
rated action. Actually has some pretty good fighting sequences and
shoot outs. Laurence Fishburne is surprisingly cast as a supporting
with a weak performance, mainly due to the script and content and
possibly direction as well. Bobby Z is definitely a good B movie, with
a rating of 5 overall considering everything listed above. All in all,
this film is definitely worth watching if you're just chillin' with 97
minutes to spare. And Paul Walker is not nearly as bad an Actor as
everyone tries to make him out to be. Have fun.
<|_=00=_|>
"15 Minutes" director John Herzfeld's "Bobby Z" rates as an
above-average action thriller with double-crosses, shoot'em ups, and
surprises, but everything seems a little too routine in the long run.
"Fast & Furious" star Paul Walker plays three-time loser Tim Kearney.
Herzfeld and scenarists Bob "4 AM: Open All Night" Krakower and Allen
Lawrence recount Kearney's career in an amusing series of flashbacks
that may be the funniest thing about "Bobby Z." In short, "Bobby Z" is
a tolerable beer and pizza movie with an R-rating and about 90 minutes
worth of mayhem. No,you can forget about female nudity. The hackneyed
theme of mistaken identities is played out again with little to make it
memorable, butthere is enough gunplay to keep you distracted. The best
thing in the Krakower and Lawrence screenplay is that they keep the
hero on the run, outnumbered, and constantly improvising. As for their
fidelity to Don Winslow's novel, that is another question, since I
haven't read it.

The plot relies on the timeworn theme of deceit. D.E.A. Agent Tad
Gruzsa (Lawrence Fishburne of "The Matrix" trilogy) offers former
Marine and three-time loser Tim Kearney a quick and easy way to get out
of prison. Kearney is eager to take Gruzsa's deal because he has just
killed a member of the Aryan Brotherhood, Maddog (Chuck Liddell of "How
High") with an automobile license plate when the pugnacious thug pulls
a knife on him. Indeed, Kearney slashes Maddog's throat just as surely
as if he had wielded a knife. Now, the entire Aryan Brotherhood both in
and out of stir demands payback. Meanwhile, a ruthless, Mexican
drug-lord, Don Huertero (Joaquim de Almeida of "Desperado"), has taken
Gruzsa's partner hostage. Gruzsa must produce a legendary, surfer dude
with a reputation as an infamous pot smuggler to get his partner back
to safety. 

Of course, there is more here than meets the eye, but Herzfeld plays
his aces close to his vest and doesn't reveal the surprises until the
final quarter-hour. Anyway, Gruzsa and his new partner take Kearney to
a rendezvous on the border where the exchange is scheduled to take
place. During the exchange, Gruzsa shows his true colors and breaks out
an assault rifle. He tries to kill Kearney, but he misses our hero
narrowly when Kearney trips over the railroad between the bad guys and
the good/bad guys. Gruzsa kills his next partner and snuffs some of the
opposition before he clears out. Later, he checks in at a tattoo parlor
run by Boom Boom (M.C. Gainey of "Con Air") and reveals that Kearney is
out and across the border. Boom Boom mobilizes the Brotherhood, and
they set off in pursuit on their bikes.

In Mexico, Kearney is recaptured by Don Huertero's henchman and taken
to his palatial estate. Kearney meets Bobby Z's girlfriend Elizabeth
(the strikingly gorgeous Olivia Wilde of "Turistas") and she has sex
with Kearney and knows that he isn't Bobby Z. Meanwhile, Kearney learns
that Bobby Z has a child, eleven-year old Kit (Juan Villareal of
"Harvest of Redemption") and the two bond when Kearney escapes from the
hacienda with the bad guys hot on their trail lead by Johnson (Keith
Carradine of "The Long Riders") who likes to spit every time that he
meets somebody of whom he disapproves. You will be amazed at how this
obnoxious character buys the farm.

"Bobby Z" is complicated enough to be interesting, but it remains
altogether a little too smug to be attain the greatness of something
like "True Romance." Happily, Walker doesn't play a dual role.
Meantime, Walker delivers a strong, charismatic performance as the
eponymous character. He plays it free, loose, and easy. Yes, there is a
happy ending that seems a little too unbelievable, but then it's only a
movie. Comparably, "Bobby Z" isn't as much fun as "Into the Blue" or
"Running Scared."
<|_=00=_|>
The plot: Kearny, a loser convict,is pushed into impersonating Bobby Z,
a larger-than-life drug dealer, in a hostage trade, only to find both
his own and Bobby Z's enemies trying to kill him.

Herzfeld previously directed 2 Days in the Valley, a Tarantino ripoff
if ever there was one. However, unlike most people, I actually kind of
liked it. This movie is another attempt to clone Tarantino's style,
heavy on flashbacks, stylized violence, and witty anti-heroes.
Unfortunately, it's not all that great, but it did manage to keep my
interest for the runtime.

Bobby Z is built up as a small-time celebrity in the local surfer
scene, as well as a rising star in drug distribution. Kearney, on the
other hand, is a three time loser with a price on his head. The movie
compares and contrasts their personalities many times, with Bobby Z
being revealed as a manipulative, egocentric jerk, while Kearney shows
many admirable qualities despite his impulsive violence.

After a somewhat grim opening, the movie becomes quite lighthearted. In
fact, I'm really at a loss as to why they even opened the movie with
such a dark and disturbing bit of character development if they were
just going to completely ignore it for the rest of the film. Oh well.
Much of the movie is like this, however. Whenever anything shocking and
dramatic happens, it's instantly forgotten by the next scene, where
everyone pretends that it never happened. Even being shot seems to be
glossed over rather quickly with some cursory first aid. It reminded me
of a video game, where picking up a first aid kit heals your character
of all wounds.

The acting was passable. It was certainly better than many
direct-to-video movies, but nobody really stood out. I guess the script
didn't really allow anyone to shine, though I was probably most
disappointed that Laurence Fishburne was given such a bland role.
Still, it's always fun to see him, even if it's in such a small and
clichéd role.

If you're looking for an action movie, this will probably satisfy you,
but I'd be surprised if you remembered it later or recommended it to
your friends.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this movie thinking, "Hey, Paul Walker wasn't too bad in the
fast and furious films and Laurence Fishburne is just awesome so why
not get it?" Well friends, looks can and are deceiving, and I learned
the hard way last evening watching this film. The director is trying so
bad to keep you involved (or wanting to be involved) and for me it
wasn't happening. The whole 'syking everyone out to think I'm Bobby Z'
script work got old really quick, Paul Walker's acting was sub par (I
haven't seen a lot of his work but I've been told by many that he's not
that great of an actor). I cannot imagine what went through Laurence
Fishburne's head when choosing to be in this film, he has done better,
WAY better! There are way too many close up shots of Paul Walker (for
absolutely no other reason than to show off his "Good Looks" and play
some really lame music along with it). There is always some hot girl
and a kid involved that need their lives saved, if you've seen it once,
you've seen it a hundred times (just this time with Paul Walker). I
suggest this film to people who only like Paul Walker and his close ups
and not action flicks, because thats about all you get. Walker couldn't
portray a criminal to save his life! Sorry Paul Walker fans, your boy
let me down.
<|_=00=_|>
There is nothing much to be too excited of at this movie, but still
entertaining. I wonder why it made its way to the silver screen because
it's not better than dozens of Straight to Video productions.
Storywise, you will get nothing more than you'd also get if you rent a
Jean-Claude Van Damme Film. Same goes for "character development".
There are some nice shootouts and fights, but nothing remarkable. It
sometimes feels as if you were watching a film from the seventies:
there is nothing really stylish or spectacular in the action scenes.
Although it feels good to see movie that doesn't use the much common
and enough-seen style of today's action flicks, the way this film shows
the action seems out-dated. Also the film's pace should be higher,
again it feels 70s-ish. As usual these days, there are some nice twists
and turns in the story. Paul Walker does a decent job, but not as
convincing as in "Running Scared". Laurence Fishburne he fails to put
any life in his bad guy role. I am not impressed of Olivia Wilde in the
leading female role. At least she tries hard to be more than
decorative. 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
To see Thirteen (Olivia Wilde) from House makes the movie a "must-see"
all by itself. But there is much more promise in this film with action
star Paul Walker, and the ever popular Laurence Fishburne.

Walker is playing this drug dealer and is trying to get Fishburne's
partner back. You know, what can go wrong, will go wrong. Now, he is on
his own.

The name of the game here is action. From the first scene, we see
Tim/Bobby (Walker) getting in trouble, and it never stops. After an
exciting horse/motorcycle chase, he takes off with his (Bobby's) son.
He has the feds, the drug lords, and a biker gang after him. Not a good
bet to survive, but he is an ex-Marine. Never bet against the Marines.

Don't expect anything more than fast action and you will not be
disappointed.

Joaquim de Almeida, who you should remember as Bucho in Desperado, is
the bad guy here.

I can forgive anything director John Herzfeld does in this film as I am
forever grateful for his introduction of the hot Charlize Theron in 2
Days in the Valley.
<|_=00=_|>
The mere idea of having a man serving time to impersonate a notorious
drug dealer who is in Thailand running away from justice is
preposterous, to put it mildly! How do the creators of "The Death and
Life and Bobby Z" ever thought, for reality sake, to be able to even
think that by sending the former marine, now a con man, into the lion's
den without at one point being discovered as a fake? The whole thing is
the idea of a corrupt law enforcement officer who thinks he will use
the former marine to get at the kingpin of the drug empire who supplied
the original Bobby Z with his merchandise.

The movie is not totally horrible, as action films go. The main problem
is the many plot holes in the narrative that the creators probably
didn't count on, or thought their viewers wouldn't figure out how the
whole mess was going to turn out. John Herzfeld directed the screen
play by Bob Krakower and Allan Lawrence. The credibility gap is huge
when the people involved asks us to accept things that don't make too
much sense.

If you can buy the fact that Elizabeth would not know who the impostor
was right away, then there is no problem enjoying this film that from
all indication went straight to video.

Paul Walker is the action hero. The problem with his acting that he
doesn't show any credible emotion. An uncredited Bruce Dern is the
narrator that gives us an account of Bobby Z's accomplishments in that
la-la land of Southern California. Joaquim de Almeida plays another one
of his bad guys. Laurence Fishburne has nothing to play with. Gorgeous
Olivia Wilde appears as Elizabeth, Bobby Z's former girlfriend. Keith
Carradine has a small part.
<|_=00=_|>
I was toggling back & forth between the Wisconsin Badgers Football
season opener & this movie on DVR AND IT WAS COMPELLING ENOUGH that for
awhile I forgot to flip back to the game!!! So obviously I have no idea
why this audience-tested badly or why people think Paul Walker can't
act. Plus he's got a great cast to back him up...

The mystery of why this was going down hooked me early & I cared about
what happened to these people (at least the good guys) For the
girl-watchers out there ~ Olivia Wild is jaw-droppingly GORGEOUS!! I
Can't believe I've seen movies with her in them before & not noticed!!!
Definitely worth the rental price if you have to go that route.
