
I liked the idea of Stranger than Fiction from the start. And I still
like the idea after having seen the film. I was not a big fan of all
the huge press first-time screenwriter Zach Helm was getting, but in
comparison to the ballooning publicity with Sascha Baron Cohen and
Borat!, it was not too bad. I continually looked forward to seeing the
film, and am glad that the great trailer did not reveal everything like
I had originally assumed.

The film involves Harold Crick (Will Ferrell), an IRS agent who lives
his life by a very strict routine. One day, he wakes up, and begins to
hear a woman narrating all of his actions. Suspicious, Crick continues
attempting to live his life out, but after an inexplicable comment in
regards to his "immenent death", he goes on the hunt for the voice.
Randomly spliced into Crick's search is Karen Eiffel (Emma Thompson).
She is writing a novel about a character named Harold Crick, and is
unknowingly the voice Crick keeps hearing. She is battling a case of
writer's block, and spends much of the film attempting to come up with
the finale for the character.

Unlike many other existential comedies, Fiction is sweet and almost
innocent in its design. Yes, the main focus of the film is pretty grim,
but the life-altering questions that keep going around during the film
do not become anywhere near as depressing and bizarre as those found in
the likes of the work of Charlie Kaufman. In a way, Fiction feels a lot
like a Kaufman-written film, but lacking in the means of being totally
"out there"; almost like being a decaf as opposed to a regular. As a
result, while being an excellent film (albeit slightly predictable), it
cannot break past the mold already set by the likes of the absolutely
brilliant Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. It just feels like it
is missing that spark that could have sprung it right into the
brilliance that all films like this strive for.

Going along with the story itself, it feels a little ill-paced in some
few instances, but for the most part sucks you right in and keeps you
there. It has many comedic elements, and has some great dramatic
sequences as well. They all play well, and while I still would not give
him a ton of credit, I was very impressed by Helm's first-time effort.
His writing feels vibrant and fresh, and in a film industry with
absolutely little originality or thought, it is just great that movies
like this slip through and get green-lighted. Every piece of dialogue
and background feels well expressed, and just play out astonishingly
well. On the topic of Crick however, I liked the idea of how neurotic
and obsessive Crick was over numbers, but I thought it was a bit of an
overkill to include special effect shots showing the numbers being
counted within his head. It felt silly in The Da Vinci Code, so why did
Sony feel the need to add it here too? 

On that note, much like my being impressed by Adam Sandler from time to
time, Ferrell really pulls through here, and does give the best
performance of his short career. The psychological trauma that his
character goes through is evident in his facial and body emotions, and
the way he conveys it on screen is nowhere near what I would have
expected. He brings an amazing sense of what this character is really
about, and gives him a poignancy that makes him so life-like that it
becomes almost too great to explain. This is a pathetically sad man who
you cannot help but pull for as the film goes on. And for all the right
reason too. He may deliver some of the funniest lines in the movie, but
he is totally mature and at ease in this role. Thankfully this means
that he stays serious for the most part throughout the film, and does
not let any Ricky Bobby or Ron Bergundy slip out. He could have easily
blown it, but thankfully, manages to stay in check.

Thompson is another particular standout, especially in contrast to
Ferrell. She is broken and weak, searching for the perfect ending. The
pain and sorrow that goes through her face as she writes and thinks has
a poetic excellence to it, and she only continues to prove how good of
an actor she is. Dustin Hoffman and Queen Latifah work well in
supporting roles, supporting Ferrell and Thompson respectively as the
film progresses on. Hoffman has always had great comedic timing, and he
does not let it go to waste here. He plays right off of Ferrell in
grand ways, and just feels totally at home in the role. Latifah, while
not in the film so much, is very good in her bit parts. Maggie
Gyllenhaal also shines here, and clearly has the makings for an Oscar
sometime in the late future.

For its small problems, Fiction still is able to prove its worth, and
is clearly one of the best films of the year. It will be able to stand
proud among the other entries in the existential comedy genre, or just
stand proud on its own. Helm's screenplay coupled in with an
intoxicatingly great performance by Ferrell make for a great trip to
the movies. And sure beats some of the crap that's been released over
the past few weeks.

9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was such a great surprise! I saw this at an advanced
screening just days after suffering through Marie Antoinette. What a
pleasant escape! The cast did an outstanding job. Who doesn't love Will
Ferrell, but to see him in this role gives me a whole new level of
respect for him as an actor. He simply shines on screen! Maggie
Gyllenhaal is a delight. Emma Thompson is brilliant as always. Simply
wonderful! The writing was terrific. It was so nice to see a movie that
could make you laugh and think (not too hard) at the same time.
Direction was well done as well - it was even visually appropriate.

Go see it and take a friend. You will laugh and be happy for a change
after leaving a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw it at The Toronto International Film Festival and it was well done.
Original storyline, fantastic performance from Ferrel, Thompson and
Hoffman. The most moving performance from Will Ferrel I have ever seen
is within this film. The storyline some may believe to be too far
fetched at first to take seriously, but in the end it does work. What
makes the film work the most are the brilliant performances from Ferrel
and Thompson. Without these two- the film couldn't have been pulled
off! I recommend this flick to anyone looking to laugh and cry and then
laugh again. It was a truly brilliant film. 10/10 (Hoffman and Ferrel
were too kind to shake hands and greet the fans inside the screening as
well.)
<|_=00=_|>
"Stranger than Fiction" is the complex tale of a simple IRS man named
Harold Crick (an appealing Will Ferrel) who one day awakes to his own
voice-over narration only to find he is the unwitting main character in
the new tragic novel from acclaimed author Karen Eiffel (an excellent
return to form for Emma Thompson). Imagine a Charlie Kaufman penned
film where all the cynicism and nihilism is replaced with an endearing
and heartfelt melancholy that creates a surprising amount of emotional
involvement in characters who would've otherwise been over-reaching
literacy devices, and you'll get a feel for the sincere type of
entertainment Marc Forster's film provides.

Forster, with his keen eye and eclectic visual sense, populates the
film the sharp and contrasting visual angles, camera tricks, and
in-frame oddities (like the play with numbers) constantly keeping the
viewer engaged and on their toes. Fun supporting turns from Dustin
Hoffman as a literary theorist employed by Krick to help find out if
the story he is in is a comedy or tragedy, and Queen Latifah as
Eiffel's no-nonsense publishing assistant help guide the viewers
through imaginative stretches that are occasionally too clever by half.
Ferrel gets to show some nice range here, and much like Robin Williams
did with "The World According to Garp" and Jim Carrey did with "The
Truman Show," graduates with honors into more high-minded quasi-serious
roles. His co-lead Thompson is subtly method and well studied as the
reclusive sociopathic author who just can't help killing her
characters.

What really seals the deal is Maggie Gyllenhal as Farrell's love
interest, the anti-establishment baker he is assigned to audit. She
literally lights up the screen. There's one expertly framed and
perfectly lit shot of her standing outside her townhouse inviting
Farrel in for the night where the light from street lamp off screen is
filtered in through the shadows of tree branches and hits her face in
such a way that in that brief flickering frame you become insanely
happy to be watching such a pleasant marriage of literary concepts
inside a visual medium. At this point you don't care how the film ends.
You're just grateful to experience that giddy moment of pure movie
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantasy movie, a la "Groundhog Day" where a man, Harold Crick in this
case, finds he has no control over his life....which leads to him
really appreciate his life. Although the premise is clearly fantasy,
the concept is intriguing and compelling.

Cast is terrific; those who usually over-act, e.g. Dustin Hoffman and
Will Ferrell, play it lower-keyed and believable. Emma Thompson, Queen
Latifah and Maggie Gyllenhall (and Tom Hulce, almost unrecognizable in
a single scene)round out the excellent cast . 

A feel-good movie, mostly comedy but with some tragic undertones.

Close to two hours but you won't be looking at your watch very often.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at the Chicago Film Festival opening last night. I went
not knowing a thing about it in advance, and was pleasantly surprised.
I'd suggest that people DON'T read specifics about this film before
seeing it.

The story/script is fantastic - I'd be surprised if it didn't get
nominated for the big original screenplay awards. It's interesting,
funny, poignant, and quite charming, actually.

The casting in general is wonderful... As someone else said, Hoffman is
perfectly understated... I'd never seen Maggie Gyllenhaal before, but
I'm a fan after seeing this one. And Emma Thompson could see a best
supporting actress nod for this film.

Sadly, I thought the film's weakest point was the casting of Will
Ferrell in the lead. He's not bad by any means, but he just doesn't
work at the same level as the rest of the cast. Kudos to him for what
he DOES accomplish in this film, but it would've had plenty of
starpower without him, and the role could've been used to showcase
someone else's talent.

All in all, thumbs up.

Just my two cents.
<|_=00=_|>
With his unassuming eyes and sheepish, "awe shucks!" demeanor, Will
Ferrell is quite simply the guy you root forthe eternal boy trapped in
a gangly 6'3" frame. Just a single look can make you giggle and smile
so effortlessly that you're often unaware that you're actually doing
it. It is with this notion that Stranger than FictionFerrell's first
major foray into a theatrical world outside the realm of in-your-face
frat boy sillinessjust makes sense. By surrounding Ferrell's charisma
with a subdued, darkly comic script and a talented supporting cast, we
get a film that is both fresh and heartfelt. 

Directed by Marc Forster and penned by Zach Helm, Stranger than Fiction
is an odd mix-mash, combining a standard comedy with existentialist
ideas. Number crunching IRS agent and genuine loser, Harold Crick
(Ferrell) one day wakes up to find his life being narrated word for
word by burnt out writer Karen Eiffel (Emma Thompson). Odd thing is,
Eiffel is writing an actual book where Crick just happens to be the
main character. To make matters worse, she plans on killing him off as
soon as she can make it through a particularly arduous stretch of
writer's block.

Originality is one thing that is absent from a majority of contemporary
Hollywood pictures, so Fiction immediately gets points for simply
trying something different. I suppose it's icing on the cake that the
film is genuinely good. Crick, knowing that is death is imminent,
begins to break out of his cloistered shell and to experience the
fruits of his life. And, in the process he forms a bond with a tax
breaking baker (Gyllenhal) and seeks advice from a literature
professor, played by a particularly charming Dustin Hoffman 

However, even though it is well intentioned, the execution isn't
flawless. The romance that develops between Gyllenhal's outcast baker
and Ferrell's strait-laced Crick doesn't feel entirely organic. We
admire the relationship and smile at its sugar coated sweetness, but we
don't necessarily believe their connection. It may taste good, but it
doesn't exactly wash down smoothly. Neither, does the film's over
reliance on reinforcing generic, "Carpe Diem" philosophies. Towards the
second act, things do get sappy. Luckily, by the conclusion, the plot
has bounced back to a wonderful limbo of both oddly comic and genuinely
heartwarming moments.

For all its flaws, Stranger than Fiction, works. Like a good novel,
Forster has fashioned something that is strange, stylistic, and
unexpectedly inspiring. And, despite the chinks in its existentialist
armor, that's surely something worth writing home about.
<|_=00=_|>
What if you only realised the importance of your life only days before
you lost it? Even knowing when or how you will die (not such a fatuous
idea with the completion of the Genome Project) raises difficult
questions about how much we really want to know about ourselves.

Such a theme is usually simplified and subsumed into religious-based
tales such as It's a Wonderful Life, but taken as an idea in its own
right it has considerable intellectual weight. Harold Crick finds
himself the main character in a story as it unfolds, but his annoyance
quickly shifts gear as he is aware of the author saying, "Little did he
know . . . it would lead to his imminent death."

Not the mindless comedy that the trailer suggests, Stranger Than
Fiction is a precise and fairly cerebral story where the laughs stem
more from individually appreciating certain aspects of its cleverness
rather than any contrived humour. 

The surface story is of a man who lives a humdrum if 'successful' life
and is awakened to a more three dimensional existence by falling in
love. The additional elements will either delight or annoy. IRS auditor
Crick (Will Ferrell) starts hearing a voice in his head. It is that of
Kay Eiffel (Emma Thompson), a famous author. She describes exactly what
he is doing but with a rather better vocabulary than he possesses. When
she announces his imminent death, he takes drastic steps to meet her
and persuade her to change the ending of her novel.

The characterisation, casting and acting is spot-on. Thompson is at her
most refreshingly deranged as the harassed and reclusive author. With a
literary equivalence of method acting, Eiffel balances on the edge of
her desk trying to imagine the thoughts of someone about to make a
suicide jump. She sits in the freezing drizzle watching cars cross a
bridge to imagine an accident. Her rants at her 'editorial assistant'
(who uses more traditional methods of accessing imagination) give a
convincing insight into the creative process. While the voice in
Crick's head is stereotypical Thompson, the fuller, isolated character,
when we meet her, is a minor revelation. "I don't need a nicotine
patch," she declaims angrily to her assistant. "I smoke cigarettes."

Maggie Gyllenhaal, as law drop-out turned baker Ana Pascal, sparkles,
glows and is sexily alluring and radiant with passionate love of life -
and she manages to light up the screen faster than, say, even Juliette
Binoche in Chocolat. Dustin Hoffman has the least challenging of the
main parts, but he endows his character (an eminent professor of
literature) with the gravitas needed to take ideas of literary
interconnectedness seriously. Will Ferrell gives a remarkable break-out
performance in a straight role, reminiscent of Jim Carrey in The Truman
Show. He is superbly suited to the part as audiences expect him to be a
shallow comedy character and here he is trying the find the substantial
person inside himself. Most of the audience are concentrating so much
on the film's intricate hypothesis and how it is worked out, that only
afterwards do we realise what a range of emotions Ferrell has to
portray with complete seriousness.

Novelist Kay Eiffel (Thompson) anthropomorphises things like Crick's
watch (similarly the official website says, in real time, "As the
cursor waited anxiously for the site to load, it couldn't help but feel
an overwhelming sense of elation.") We sense a life-imbuing process
that might even be likened to what an actor does with his character;
but the film goes a stage further by drawing a similarity with the
essentially lifeless, clockwork existence of the IRS auditor whose only
escape is discovering love with Pascal. His quest is aided by fictional
plot analysis from Professor Jules Hilbert (Dustin Hoffman) and of
course begs the question, what is fiction?

Director Marc Forster showed consummate skill in portraying the
positive escapism of JM Barrie's creative Peter-Pan-writing in Finding
Neverland. With Stranger Than Fiction, he has teamed up with brilliant
new dramatist Zach Helm. Helm is fascinated with the writing process in
what he calls a larger Post-Modern movement. "From Pirandello, to
Brecht, to Wilder, to Stoppard, to Woody Allen to Wes Anderson, we can
see the progression of a contemporary, self-aware, reality-bending and
audience-involving wave in dramatic literature," he says. "I love to
see Homer Simpson reacting to his creator, Matt Groenig, or the cast of
'Urinetown' complaining from the stage about their own title."

Even the street names, business names, and the characters' last names
of Stranger Than Fiction are significant  Crick, Pascal, Eiffel,
Escher, Banneker, Kronecker, Cayly, etc. are all puns on mathematicians
who focused on the innate order of things. The invitation is to ask
what is beyond the symmetry of things. 

Stranger Than Fiction meets even its most formidable challenge - making
the ending nail-biting and moving after such surreal content. But the
ultimate message of the film seems a little trite if it is supposedly
coming from a groundbreaking author. Like the glimpses of Eiffel's
book, we are given impressive mountains of style but little substance.
As the film doesn't press the strengths forcefully by admitting in so
many words what it is getting at, there is a chance you may not bother
with the subtleties - in which case it adds up to very little.

A superb testament to inventiveness and worthy of awards in many
different categories, Stranger Than Fiction somehow falls short of
being a masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
Stranger Than Fiction is a quirky black comedy about Harold Crick, an
average man with a fascination and preoccupation for numbers, who
discovers that he is apparently little more than a character in someone
else's story and that the course of his life appears to have been
scripted. Everything he does and thinks is narrated as he does and
thinks it, so after the realisation that he's not actually going mad he
tries to find out what is really going on.

I liked this film a lot - it had elements of similarly themed films
where fictional worlds intersect and influence the real world and vice
versa, such as The Hours and The Purple Rose Of Cairo. Yet it takes
this concept in a new direction and touches on the philosophies of
choice and fate - if the story of our lives is already written, can we
change the script? Does knowing what the future holds influence our
lives or are we just following a predestined course whatever we do? As
you might expect Marc Foster gives good and capable direction and there
are lots of elements of the film that were really very enjoyable. Some
scenes are maybe drawn out too long, but for the most part he manages
to keep the film flowing smoothly. The 'mathematical images' which
beautifully illustrate the clockwork mind of Harold Crick are a great
idea and reminiscent of the Ikea scene from Fight Club.

The acting on the whole was of an excellent standard. Will Ferrell's
dry delivery was absolutely perfect for the role of a man with his fate
in the hands of a seemingly unknown force. Maggie Gyllenhaal, Dustin
Hoffman and Queen Latifah all give very respectable performances as
does the relatively unknown Tony Hale. Yet I felt that the gem in this
film had to be Emma Thompson's performance as the neurotic and fidgety
author Kay Eiffel who seems to become increasingly unstrung as the film
progresses.

I was lucky enough to get to see a test screening of this film tonight.
I was expecting a generic Hollywood romantic comedy yet the storyline
was sufficiently quirky and engaging, and performances were superb,
giving it a rightful place alongside other great modern black comedies.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advanced screening of Stranger than Fiction tonight on the
Sony lot, as part of the Merrill Lynch media conference being held this
week in Pasadena, CA.

I hadn't heard much about this movie prior to seeing it tonight, so I
had NO expectations, which is really how I like to see a movie (without
any preconceived notions, good or bad).

The movie was very well acted, and told an interesting story. I kind of
look at Will Ferrell in this movie the way I looked at Adam Sandler
after "Punch Drunk Love". You're not sure how to react to
Ferrell/Sandler's on-screen persona's, as up to this point, you've
always thought of them as the funny men, who couldn't (or wouldn't)
attempt a more dramatic role. For Ferrell, who's probably at the height
of his popularity, this was a good move for him, as well as an ideal
role.

All in all, I really liked this movie, and I would definitely recommend
it to friends/family.
