
Honestly, I thought this was a good film. I'll even go so far as to say
a great film. I really think that Chris Carter, David Duchovny, and
Gillian Anderson delivered what they had promised to. All along,
throughout the post-production and press campaign we've been told that
this is a creepy story with Mulder and Scully's relationship at its
core. Well, that's what it is ... plain and simple. I really think that
all the negativity and people's harsh reviews are from false and hyped
up expectations of what this movie is supposed to be. If anything, you
should just try to walk into the theatre with an open mind.

But I almost think some people who reviewed this film, saw a different
film than I did ...

1. I read a review in which the person said Gillian Anderson's acting
was awful. That is false. It is quite the contrary. Gillian Anderson is
probably one of the strongest aspects of this movie. Every time she's
in a scene, you're captivated.

2. I had read that Mulder and Scully don't show up in the film until 45
minutes into it. False. Scully appears in the 3rd scene - so what? no
more than 7 minutes? - and Mulder directly follows.

3. Someone complained about an irrelevant and torturously long scene
where Mulder fills up his gas tank. This doesn't happen. He goes to a
gas station, gets out of his car, and goes into a store.

4. Lastly, it was rumored that the actors where flubbing up their lines
all the time. Okay, even if they did, that wouldn't end up in the final
film. Obviously they do multiple takes for a reason. The lines are
solid.

This movie is not boring. The surprises are there. It may not be scary
in a 'horror film' sort of way where things are jumping out at you
every 2 seconds, but it is scary. The acting is amazing. Gillian
Anderson on her own is a joy to watch, but when you put her in a scene
with David it's either going to break your heart or melt it. The
supporting cast won't let you down, and neither will the storyline.
It's not paranormal in the sense of freaks and monsters, but religion
and God. It's very much in the fashion of "All Things"; seeing the
signs and following them. Finally, it is just excellently put together.
Whoever edited this film did a phenomenal job! The inter-cutting and
juxtaposition was out of this world.

GIVE IT A CHANCE, FOLKS.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw X-Files: I Want to Believe. There are too many other people
beginning their reviews with "I Wanted to Believe It Would Have Been a
Decent Film", for me to do the same. 

However, that is how I, like many others, felt tonight. There was
laughter during the serious scenes, and no laughter during the briefly
"comic" moments. Not a good sign when the audience is tittering during
moments of anger or tears between the main actors. 

After it was over, I wanted to buy Chris Carter a beer, sit down with
him, slap him in the head and say "Chris..... what happened?" Chris
wrote some great episodes, but as the series ended it got weaker and
weaker. This movie plays like a subpar episode from one of their weaker
seasons. It's as if Carter had proved the old clich√© that a writer only
has so many stories in them, and when they're gone, they're gone. I
don't want to believe that, but it's hard to dispute it in this case. 

Duchovny and Anderson are first-rate, as always; they are the only
reason people would watch this movie; no-one else could say these lines
and hold interest. 

Watch this movie only if you want to see them as their characters, and
discard any need for coherency or plot, let alone logic; because you
won't find it. 

POSSIBLE SPOILERS (NOT THAT IT MATTERS):

The main villain in this movie is a 50 year-old Russian delivery man,
who outruns the younger Mulder, outwits him, is played as if he's the
unstoppable Alien throughout the series, when he is really only a....
50 year-old Russian guy with no special powers. Then, at the very end,
after getting away after every gruesome crime, he gets whacked in the
noggin with a wrench from a woman and goes down. End of villain. The
movie ends shortly thereafter. 

The "hero" of the movie is a retired pedophile priest. Making this
schmoe a "pedophile" just to make him unpalatable, was unnecessary, and
insensitive to those who have actually been molested as children. It
was a very cheap and easy way to make the guy disturbing to audiences,
and Carter is smarter than to use such a cheap device. 

SPOILER ALERT: (again, not that it matters): The entire plot, as
ludicrous as it sounds, boils down to this:

A 50 year-old gay Russian dude who is part of an illegal
organ-snatching ring wants to save his gay partner by stealing body
parts; when that fails, he plans to have his head grafted onto a
woman's body. That's it. I kid you not. When you see the movie, you
will see this is exactly the plot. You will also want to join me in
slapping Chris Carter in the head. After all this time, this is the
best he can come up with? It is a cross between a Russian Dr.
Frankenstein movie and Hairspray. 

MOST LUDICROUS MOMENT AWARD: Again, the shame here is on Carter, not
Duchovny. He actually has Mulder go into a room full of the people he
knows have been abducting and cutting up women for body parts, armed
with.... a wrench. That's right, a wrench. He staggers around (he has a
head injury) saying "Stop! Just Stop what you're doing! Do any of you
speak English??" Then a 70 year old Russian doc hits him with a hypo
gun, knocking him out. This is the guy who went toe to toe with
unstoppable morphing aliens in the series. Now he's dumb enough to get
hypo'd by a guy on social security. Everything after this point was
pure farce, and you feel insulted that you were expected to take any of
it seriously. 

The plot holes are too giant to describe. Save that for a guy that used
to live on the cell phone, it doesn't occur to Mulder to use his phone
when he finds out where the bad guys are. Oh yeah, he does, but his car
gets rammed so he drops it. Then, when he wakes up hours later in his
car, he still has his phone, but doesn't use it. 

But wait, Skinner arrives anyway! And he has some of the dumbest lines
in the movie as he and Skully try to find Mulder randomly in the dark!
OK, I give up..... there's no describing it. 

The Truth Is Out There, and it is this: Any member of the audience
tonight that was laughing during this movie could have sat down, and in
two weeks, written a treatment that would have turned into a better
movie than what Chris Carter and Spotnitz wrote. If you are a fan, you
will leave the theater with the same feeling; and you will be correct. 

Yep, this...thing with two heads was written by two heads. Which is
probably why you will see two-headed things in this movie. 

As for myself, I Don't Want to Believe. I Don't Want to Believe that
Carter would write something this bad, and this insulting to not only
the die-hard X-Files fans, but for Duchovny and Anderson to perform. 

I can't end without saying something directly to Carter, though I know
he won't ever read it: Come on, Chris. You know you could have written
a better and more compelling (and more coherent) script than this. You
should have vetted it, found out how bad it was, scrapped it, and
started from scratch with a new script with higher stakes and more
meaning for your audience. Your audience deserved better, and your
legacy deserves better. 

(Cue mournful X-Files music at end......)
<|_=00=_|>
The world is a greatly changed place since the heyday of "The X-files."
Back in the late 1990's the TV show was at its height and tapping into
the shared fears of the day: fear of the unknown, fear of the impending
millennium, and fear that something larger than us (the government or
alien invaders) was up to no good. Flash forward to the year 2008 and
we know all that hubbub about the millennium was for nothing, our
government has been up to no good for years, and it's not space
invaders we need to worry about but other people terrorizing us. The
murky, gloomy, grim style of "The X-Files" is now the norm with
feverish and dark films like "There Will Be Blood" and "The Dark
Knight" tapping into the mindset of culture today from opposite ends of
the film spectrum.

Apparently creator Chris Carter didn't realize his baby was irrelevant
now. His only mission should've been to please the faithful. If he
wanted to revive his series on film, he had best stick to the
labyrinthine alien mythology that still has some die-hard fans buzzing,
or at the very least deliver a fun stand-alone monster-of-the-week
style flick that would make fans jump in their seats. With "The
X-Files: I Want to Believe" he does neither of those things. Instead,
he gives us a story where Mulder and Scully come out of hiding to work
on a case where the FBI are using a psychic criminal priest to help
locate a missing agent and track down a potential serial killer. The
plot fits more into the mold of his far less popular companion series
"Millennium" than it does to "The X-Files." Apparently Carter wanted to
please no one except perhaps himself.

The weirdest thing about the film is that it isn't all that bad. Carter
as a director lays on some decent atmosphere (with all the
global-warming defying snow and some eerie nighttime shots) and creates
some palpable tension as the horrors of the case grow grimmer. The
chemistry between Mulder (a lazy but effective David Duchovny) and
Scully (an amazingly fully ranged and emotional Gillian Anderson) is
still there, and Anderson's performance is especially gripping. Billy
Connolly, cast against type, gives an interesting turn as the corrupted
priest searching for redemption through his visions that probably
would've garnered an Emmy nod had this been a very special two-part TV
episode. Also good is Amanda Peet, looking smashing in her smart FBI
pantsuits.

Most interesting is the story arc given Dana Scully. I honestly had
stopped watching the show after the sixth season, and aside from the
mythology storyline that built up to the first film released ten years
ago, I recall some of my favorite episodes being the ones where Scully
questioned her faith and struggled with reconciling her Catholicism
with her scientific approach to the paranormal investigations. This is
again explored here, as Scully, always the skeptic, so desperately
wants to believe in something. However, it's an odd choice for Carter
to focus on this internal human drama when he should be focusing on how
to bring fans back into the fold. It would've been an interesting and
compelling layer had Carter not been so inept with the rest of the
plot.

In the end some fine performances and a moody atmosphere do not add up
to a good time. Eventually it becomes an uncomfortable and
anachronistic creep-fest that plays like the type of suspense thriller
that ruled the roost in the mid-1990's after films like "Silence of the
Lambs" and "Seven" made police detection and serial killing popular
entertainment. Well, it's 2008, Mr. Carter, and it's time to wake up
from your prolonged nightmare that was rendered uninteresting in 2001.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not hard to imagine how time flies, when you realize that one of
your best loved television series of all time had already ended its
run, and you reminisce the times back when one of your weekend nights
revolved around sitting in a bunk with your army mates, all glued to
what Chris Carter had conjured as adventures for the two best known
goggle box FBI agents, Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully
(Gillian Anderson). While we always needed to crank up the volume to
try and make sense of the murmurs involving shadow governments and
secret conspiracies, our favourite episodes almost unanimously were
those one-off ones, so called the "monster" episodes.

And it's been 6 years since The End, and 10 years since the first
X-Files movie hit the screen. While that movie was intricately linked
to the major conspiracy thread, this movie, as the trailer led us to
believe, was a one-off monster episode, or so I thought. While it's
indeed a one-off episode, it's no monster of an episode in the mould of
those in the television series, though it really felt like an extended,
stand alone episode which gave us a slightly more in depth look at the
dynamics of our beloved duo, especially what happened to them in the
last few years they went off the FBI radar. But as the saying goes, you
can't put a good man, and a lady, down for too long.

This is a story about obsession. As we all know, Mulder's obsessed with
everything X- classifiable, and in the years of absence, here comes an
opportunity for a breath of fresh air when Agent Dakota Whitney (Amanda
Peet) comes knocking to seek his expertise, as the FBI now has a case
on their hands and a psychic, convicted pedophile of a Catholic Father
Joseph Crissman (Billy Connolly) who volunteers key information to help
in that case. The FBI isn't sure if Father Crissman is a liar, or
worse, connected to the crime, and hence Mulder's help is to be their
lie-detector. Naturally with religion and her usual cynicism in the
mix, Scully is disgusted by the sheer presence of the religious felon,
and thus set the stage for some conflict with her beau.

Like an old, quarreling couple who can't seem to give way to each
other, their philosophies clash as their interests - Scully battling
the hospital system to save her young chronically ill patient - differ,
and threaten to pull the couple apart. He thinks that she's not being
supportive of his venturing into an X-case even though they're now
civilians, while she thinks he's latching onto Father Crissman to use
his prowess, if proved true, to find Samantha Fox. Which I thought
would probably make an excellent sub plot, but alas the potential was
dangled like a carrot in front of us, and then went totally off
tangent.

Don't expect any big sets or intricate subplots here, as it really
looked like it's done on a shoestring budget, with the look and feel of
a typical classic television episode, a two-parter in fact. There are
strange aberrations of course, but all these go unexplained, and you
know they're just going to be glossed over since everything will be
wrapped up by the time the end credits roll. However, there are
adequate moments to keep you at the edge of your seat, and some
developments do enough to leave your mouth gaping wide open, especially
those involving extreme medicine.

David Duchovny does look more comfortable reprising his role as Mulder,
but Gillian Anderson, as interviews have revealed, required a lot more
time trying to get back into character, and this uneasiness
unfortunately shows on screen. The chemistry's still not lacking, but
given that their respective characters have aged and grown more
comfortable with one another, gone are the tensions between them,
though the problems that surface here did try to rekindle some of the
opposition they felt during the course of their long running series.

Chris Carter and X-Files regular scribe Frank Spotnitz did incorporate
a nice surprise in the movie, so do keep your eyes peeled as you will
silently cheer when it happens. But I thought what was a ghastly way to
bid farewell, was the little coda toward the end of the credit roll,
which somewhat signals the finale of everything, though in a very out
of place manner. Anyhow, this X-Files movie episode isn't going to win
any new fans over, but for X-philes, I'd bet we're probably just
satisfied already with our heroes appearing in celluloid one more time,
that no matter how wafer thin the plot is, it's not going to dampen our
collective fan spirit.

And to thank our lucky stars that Mark Snow's iconic theme song, didn't
get played in the movie under the horrific techno rendition.
<|_=00=_|>
"It's here! It's here!" shouts Billy Connolly's mysterious,
questionable, and apparently psychic Father Joe Crissman in the film's
opening scene, and although he is talking about something much more
grotesque than the return of "The X-Files", the words clearly echo the
thoughts of every last X-Phile awaiting the return of Mulder and
Scully, of "The X-Files", and, as surely everyone hoped, something to
make up for the many hours wasted on the show's astonishingly mediocre
final season.

If you do not enjoy "The X-Files" you will not enjoy "I Want to
Believe". That is a simple fact. Although this film was marketed as a
standalone feature requiring no prior understanding of the series, the
final product is quite far removed from one of the more straightforward
standalone episodes, and is actually more about characters and themes
than the plot itself, which is not on its own very good.

What it comes down to in the end is whether or not I was satisfied when
the credits started rolling and UNKLE's excellent version of Mark
Snow's theme started playing. The answer is yes. "The X-Files: I Want
to Believe" is not entirely satisfying as a straightforward thriller.
It is not entirely satisfying as a procedural or as a medical drama. It
is, however, satisfying when the disparate elements come together to
form the thematic core of Chris Carter and Frank Spotnitz's solid
screenplay, and although the journey to the ending is occasionally
frustrating, preachy, and even downright annoying, the end result is
worth it.

Nobody can rightfully accuse Carter and Spotnitz of writing a hurried
screenplay. If anything, "The X-Files: I Want to Believe" is too
preoccupied with including as much as possible on a thematic level.
This film could have been a tight, thrilling 90-minute film if they had
decided to go that way. What "The X-Files: I Want to Believe" is, is a
combination of various sorts of episodes into one feature film. If you
crave a straightforward, scary thriller you will inevitably be
disappointed, because that simply is not what this film is about,
regardless of what Carter himself might tell you. When the film comes
together as a whole at the end, the X-File (or in this case, not so
much) itself couldn't possibly matter less. The title, which seems
frustratingly awkward on paper, is incredibly fitting once you have
actually seen the film.

"The X-Files", also known as "Fight the Future", released in 1998, was
a mythology-based story with plenty of action. It was "The X-Files" in
blockbuster mode. Although it satisfied many fans I found it rushed,
inconsequential, and severely lacking in substance. While "I Want to
Believe" may feature a main plot that often feels like a sub-plot, and
one that is quite far from being the most inventive or exciting Mulder
and Scully have ever dealt with, it feels like a more complete film.
What is lacking in thrills, scares, and action, is made up for with
outstanding character moments and an effective thematic core. 

Chris Carter's feature debut as director, "The X-Files: I Want to
Believe" provides some solid visual moments in addition to some
misguided decisions. All in all Carter keeps the film moving at the
slow but involving pace of most episodes and the prelude to the film is
a very well-executed scene.

The performances are uniformly outstanding except for Xzibit and Amanda
Peet, who are both not given much to do. Billy Connolly's understated
performance is a masterclass in acting that is quite possibly one of
the best male performances of the year thus far, and Duchovny and
Anderson slip back into the roles of Mulder and Scully (albeit an
older, slightly different Mulder and Scully) with no problems
whatsoever. 

The film features several outstanding scenes, the final conversation
between Mulder and Scully in the film, and Scully's late-night
confrontation of Father Joe (a stunning scene, really), stand out as
the finest. Carter provides the romantics much to swoon over but never
allows the romantic plot to become cheesy or overpower the remainder of
the film. The film is far from completely serious, as there is much
humor here and a lot of treats for the fans including some very, very
pleasant surprises and small references to the series (the latter
taking place mostly in Mulder's office at the start of the film). Also
look for a bizarre but funny gag involving J. Edgar Hoover, George W.
Bush, and Mark Snow's "X-Files" theme.

"The X-Files: I Want to Believe" is an atmospheric thriller that while
flawed and certainly not providing a definitive "X-Files" experience,
is much better than 1998's "Fight the Future", and an enjoyable return
for Mulder and Scully which encapsulates much of what made "The
X-Files" so addictive- humor, drama, great characters, and an excellent
musical score.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Good: - Duchovny, Anderson, and Connelly all deliver excellent
performances. Mulder and Scully are still fun to watch. - The
atmosphere of the show is very much kept intact. - The surprise
appearance of a series regular is a great addition to the finale of the
movie. - The Scully Subplot was done very well. - The few action
sequences are well done. - It explains what happened to Mulder and
Scully. 

The Bad: - Xzibit's character is as one dimensional as a piece of
paper. - The plot is very weak due to it being incredibly simplistic. -
It's slow pace will turn off many. - It feels made for T.V, almost
exactly like an episode from season 7. They should've made it a 2 hour
special on T.V instead. - It's way more of a Drama film than a Sci Fi
thriller, which is misleading since the previews showed otherwise.

Overall: I had mixed thoughts when leaving the theater. Though it was
slightly disappointing and underwhelming, it was still a good movie,
especially for X Files fans. Duchovny and Anderson have not lost a step
and deserve either another season to close up the series or another
movie. I'm leaning more towards the former, as the movies have
illustrated that Carter excels far more in a T.V environment.
<|_=00=_|>
I think my title says it all. Really, I was entirely entertained the
entire way through. I'm not going to give away the story because this
film was marketed wonderfully. Going in, thanks to great marketing, you
won't (shouldn't) know anything about the plot and this helps create a
real sense of mystery. By now you know it has to do something with
psychics but you really have no idea.

The writing, just like the show, is pitch perfect. The character
development between Mulder and Scully is never off and they even
introduce new characters. These characters aren't great (I suppose at
times Xibit is kind of annoying) but they work pretty well to move the
story along. This film also does something many movies have a hard time
doing and thats creating sub plots that don't fall flat. There's a
great sub plot involving a boy with a terrible disease, and its
emotional and you never don't care about his fate even though it isn't
the central focus of the story.

The acting is great. Duchovney and Anderson both flourish as the main
characters while newcomers Amanda Peet and Xibit (is he trying to pull
a Rock on us and change it to his birth name?) do their job admirably
but never steal a scene from the real stars of the film.

I know I have a ton of great things to say about this movie and, yes, I
loved it. I'd rank it among the greatest summer films this year (for
those wondering Dark Knight and Iron Man both trump this). This is on
par with how I felt about The Incredible Hulk, which I also loved. I
just can't say that it's great and honestly I'm not sure what it is.
Probably that it felt like a really epic episode.

This feels right at home in the series and it's a real relief to say
that because it could've been good but not at home within the series.

I give this film a B.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so having watched all 9 seasons and the first film, I was really
looking forward to this, as was my husband. I went in expecting a good
film - the first film might not've been amazing, but it was watchable,
and it fit in with the series, and I figured what with the huge wait
for this one, they must've been taking their time and getting a great
script together, because surely they'd want to prove wrong all the
people who rubbished the first film?

I think maybe they waited too long to do another movie. I think maybe
Chris Carter forgot what The X-Files used to be about, forgot what
exactly it was that made the show so great. Yeah, the episodes were
weird, and yeah some story lines strained belief, but they always
offered so much to back it up that it got you thinking, and it always
had an enthusiasm in the characters that just made it enjoyable
regardless of believability.

Pet peeves of the movie: 1. No follow on from the end of season 9 at
all. 2. "Come back, all is forgiven." Never realised Mulder was that
blindly trusting. He's a wanted man. He never even bothered to make
sure that the offer was on the level, just took their word for it - the
word of a government he's never trusted. 3. The focus was all
wrong...instead of focusing on the case and the background and giving
us details to involve us and catch our interest, they focused on Mulder
and Scully's relationship, except that there was zero chemistry between
the two, and they even tried, unsuccessfully, to add back some of the
will they won't they tension from the series with Scully's half-hearted
threats of "I'll leave you". 4. The bad guys weren't even scary - they
were stolen from over half the horror films currently out there,
kidnapping with sick experiments seems to be par for the course when
going for shock value these days, so shame on Chris Carter for
following the crowd. 5. Even the ending was half-hearted - less than
10mins of one of the main characters from the series - surely Skinner
deserved a bigger role? Basically it just left us feeling cheated.

I really tried to like it, I wanted to like it, but it just wasn't an
X-file. Give Mulder and Scully's characters different names, and it
just becomes another in a long line of preachy films about letting
science go to far, and religion, - and seriously? Making the paedophile
a good guy? What kind of message is that sending out?

Shame on you Chris Carter.
<|_=00=_|>
*****this comment may contain spoilers********

Yes mulder and Scully are back...and they've left aliens and Ufo's back
in the basement..its a fresh spin on what we loved about the series
with some new dark undertones, that make's us question what we believe
is faith, God and the notion of redemption.

The film itself is less action driven/CGI heavy than the first one,
which i liked only because it allowed us to understand and follow our
favorite duo, investigating and expanding their relationship, to
greater horizons. The performance of both David and also Gillian are
compelling and dramatic, making us feel for them as they carry baggage
from the choices they have made. Father joe (Bill Connoly) causes a
challenge to the viewer, as a repentant pedophile his acting allows us
to see someone torn by their past..looking for some redemption and
clarity...he has visions from god..the question resonates on the viewer
if his visions are real or some fantasy...from the truth...

The story moves scenes by scenes, almost like a puzzle of clues..never
letting up until all the pieces of the story converge, and your
presented with a tight, less paranormal but effective thriller, that
doesn't expect the viewer to stretch credibility or twist's that leave
more questions than answers. Its one of the best new releases I've seen
this year behind the dark knight!!!

GO SEE IT!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a huge X-Files fan since the first episode. I even read the
comics put out by Topps and the novels by Charles Grant and Kevin J.
Anderson. I loved the first movie, "Fight the Future." Even though I
had heard people disparaging the film because it wasn't connected to
any larger mytharc, I thought that would be fine because some of the
stand-alone episodes are my favorites (Pusher, Clyde Bruckman's Final
Repose, etc.). Even the worst episodes were entertaining in some way,
so what could go wrong? As I found out, many things could go wrong. Bad
writing. Clich√© and forced dialogue. Plot holes. Awkward and unfunny
humor. Really bad story. Transparent parallels that felt cheap and
unentertaining.

The theater I was in was pretty full. It was 3 days after opening
night. I sensed that most of the reactions around me were similar to
mine. People were laughing, but not at intentional jokes. Sometimes the
actions of the characters just seemed stupid. Like towards the end,
Mulder comes into the villains' lair yelling "Stop! Don't do that!"
People were rolling in the aisles.

I could tell a few minutes into the movie it was going to be bad. When
Mulder initially refuses to help with the case, then sees a picture of
his sister and that totally changes his mind, I thought to myself,
"Uh-oh, this might be bad." I kept hoping for improvement, but it was
not forthcoming.

There really wasn't a single scene in this I can say that I liked. The
dialogue was so stilted, unoriginal, and unorganic that I wondered if
Chris Carter and Frank Spotnitz had paid some fanfiction author to
write this. I take that back; there's fanfiction that's better than
this.

The villains being gay Russian organ harvesters/mad scientists is just
so lame and boring. I mean this is the X-Files, where's the paranormal?
Sure there's a supposedly psychic pedophile priest, but that didn't
work too well and was the only weak connection to the X-Files. Why did
the FBI really need Mulder so badly? And let's remember that the
conflicted/complex psychic character had already been done - and much
better - in "Beyond the Sea." Add in a silly Bush joke (I'm no fan of
Bush but it just seemed such a cheap shot and so out of place) and a
pointless 15-minute Skinner cameo (the only point people cheered in the
theater), and you can see why this is so poorly made. Never in my
deepest pessimism would I have imagined that this film would have been
so bad.

I haven't the slightest idea where Carter and Spotnitz were coming
from. They wanted to make Mulder and Scully look more mature? Less
"waving his gun at the heavens?" like Mulder says in the first movie?
They could have done it better than this. Scully berates Mulder for
still looking for his sister? After all these years, she still thinks
it's about that? The parallel between Mulder's obsession with finding
the truth and Scully's obsession with helping the sick boy, Christian
(subtle name), was so hit-you-over-the-head. And "Don't give up"? So
profound.

They tried to address issues like the Catholic priest sex scandal, why
God allows suffering, gay marriage, and even the existence of God - but
it's done so hodge-podge and shallowly that it comes off like a bad
movie-of-the-week drama.

I could say so much more. I'm going to go back and watch some episodes
of the series. I will never watch this movie again or buy it on DVD. It
doesn't even deserve to be associated with the greatness of the series.

EDIT: After 7 years, I went back and watched it, after hearing a small
but growing fanbase of the movie argue for its merits. I had pretty
much the same reaction, unfortunately, and couldn't find any merits to
it, despite trying my hardest. At least there's the revival
mini-series, X-Files Reopened, coming up. I'm looking forward to that,
and hope they can go on as if the second movie never happened.
