
I usually am disappointed in psychological thrillers - typically the
twist at the end never lives up to the hype. It was a wonderful
surprise that this one failed to let me down at the end. Although the
film is slow at times, there are numerous twists and turns so you don't
have to wait until the end for all of the excitement.

Unknown is a great movie that keeps the viewer trying to stay one step
ahead through the collective confusion. Caviezel and Peppers gave
strong and engaging performances. Kinnear skillfully draws both dislike
and sympathy. Stormare is a great character actor and perfectly cast
for the role. 

I agree with other viewers the lighting was dim and depressing but I
would give a good guess that this was intentional. Certainly the movie
would not have "felt" the same otherwise.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is engaging in the first twenty or so minutes, with a good
cast including famous celebrities (Greg Kinnear, Barry Pepper, James
Caviesel) and some appearances from indie stars (Peter Stormare, Joe
Pantilona, Jeremy Sisto, and Marke Boone Junior). The acting is pretty
good and the camera work is OK as is the story, with enough twists and
turns to probably entertain most viewers for the running time. It's not
a bad movie but not a great one either, with it's story there is no
moral to be learned and that's fine but i wish the director gave the
movie more style since it's not a heavy drama, the camera wasn't very
flashy almost bland and the scenes outside of the warehouse were poorly
done. If only the movie took place all inside that warehouse and the if
the director didn't try to make it so straight forward. overall i give
this a B-, it's worth seeing but don't make a huge effort. Also don't
listen to the ads saying that this has the same story style as Memento,
because it doesn't. Rating: the film when i watched it was not rated,
the movie contains many F words although not extreme, and the violence
in this movie is toned down, yes there's some but not too bad.

saw it on Demand in IFC in Theatres
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "UNKNOWN" yesterday in a midnight special screening and it was
surprisingly good! In deed, this one is a real beauty among so many
mystery, psychological thrillers hitting the cinemas in the last years.

This movie is a little bit of "SAW", a little bit of "IDENTITY", a
little bit of "RESERVOIR DOGS" spiced with some tiny little pieces of
"CUBE" - so far, so good and so anticipating. BUT: in many movies of
this kind there is a story with some huge holes in the plot and a final
twist at the end which may be unexpected and surprising - but after
some minutes you feel a little bit strange about it because the final
twist being of some strange coincidence.

"UNKNOWN" is better: the only coincidence you will have to swallow is
right in the beginning of the movie, that there is a chemical gas which
is strong enough to wipe out the complete memory of five people
(including their whole identity!) for some hours, but fails to kill one
of them although "death" being one of its side effects.

Under this premise the rest of the story is fully logical and
surprisingly clever. And it makes the best out of the fact, that in
many scenes the audience is better informed about the real identity of
the characters than the characters themselves.

And the end is just stunning: when the final credits hit the screen you
have seen many final twists and you know everything about what was
going on in the chemical factory, but you do not know all about the
motive force of any character. In fact, 24 hours after seeing this
movie I still try to find out what is my personal opinion about Jean
Jacket and his role in this game.

...and a movie which is worth to think about more than 10 minutes is
always worth a watch. Enjoy this ride!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Unknown was great. I really had to keep up with the twists
and turns...it certainly forced me to pay attention (which is a good
thing!) as sometimes I start to zone out. I was impressed with the cast
given the independent nature of the movie and the fact that it isn't
playing in many theaters. I love Jim Caviezel..he's a babe! I also like
Greg Kinnear and was surprised to see him play a not-so-likable guy but
then again...what do you expect given the circumstances. Joe P was
funny in his own way and Barry Pepper was an unknown to me until this
movie. One of my new favorite TV shows is Six Degrees which stars
Bridget M. She was great in this movie and a total surprise to me at
the end. I never predicted the end at all and that made the movie all
the better. I did not foresee a lot of what transpired in the
end...don't want to give it away though. I sure hope it gets to more
theaters but if it doesn't, buy it through pay-per-view or rent the
DVD. I thoroughly enjoyed it and it kept me on my toes.
<|_=00=_|>
The thing that I love about this movie is that it seems like it was
very low-budget. I love movies that rely entirely on the plot, and not
big action sequences and flashy sets. The acting is above par with some
very well known names, and some not so well known names. I actually
found most of the film humorous because of the interactions between the
men trapped with failing memories. It is a long comedy/drama that keeps
you guessing (but not for too long so that you can catch up with the
characters and enjoy watching THEM discover what is going on). I highly
recommend this movie to people who enjoy films like "Momento" and even
"Fight Club".
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe the critic who wrote (something like) '...written by the smartest
kid in film school...' was right--you really need to pay attention to
understand the game, the rules and the players.

And just when you believe you've figured it out, yikes, there are more
twists.

Solid performances by all players, every one believable in their
loss-of-memory-ness.

Several characters transformed with nice arcs that cross, mesh, repel
and attract.

Smart clues dropped unexpectedly.

Plus, released to cable partners of IFC (at least in the NYC, NJ and
Conn area) and is also available now with video-on-demand service. This
makes this nice little film available to many, many more viewers,
because the number of theatres listed across the US playing it numbers
about one dozen.
<|_=00=_|>
Five men wake-up in a chemical warehouse without memories. One man is
handcuffed and bleeding with a shot on the chest; the other one is
tied-up to a chair; the other one has the nose broken; and the other
two are lying on the floor. They unravel that two of them have been
kidnapped and the other three are bad guys, bur who is who? Meanwhile,
the police force try to track the criminals that will catch the ransom
and find where their hideout is.

"Unknown" is a surprisingly good thriller, with a dramatic and
suspenseful story that uses elements of "Cube", "Memento", film-noir
genre and many other movies ("Saw", "Reservoir Dogs" among others). The
explanation for the lack of memory of the men is very reasonable, the
acting is excellent and the final twist is totally unexpected. The
character played by Jim Caviezel is very interesting and complex. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Os Desconhecidos" ("The Unknown")
<|_=00=_|>
From the start of the movie you want to know what is going on! This I
think is always a good move! That way you will get drawn in the movie!
I love the little twists and turns! For once I didn't have to wait long
for something to be revealed! So it didn't get annoying! All the actors
did well! All of the men in the building were able to convince me that
they could have been as much of a good guy as a bad guy! This makes the
movie very compelling! The movie has a nice pace,not to slow but not
fast either! Just fast enough to get the story going and slow enough
for the viewer to digest the twists! To be honest I didn't expect the
great twist at the end! But that made the movie so much better! I
understand that people compare "Unknown" to movies like "Saw" and
"Reservoir Dogs" because of the similar situations the main characters
are in! But that is where the comparison stops! "Unknown" is completely
different! And should be judged as an original movie!
<|_=00=_|>
"Unknown" is the type of film that looks brilliant before, during and
even shortly after watching it. The names of the actors appearing
during the opening credits are fantastic, the basic premise sounds
awesome and instantly reminds you of a handful of other cinema
classics, there's an almost constant high level of action & mystery and
the director maintains a fast pacing and regularly provides new plot
twists! This film actually contains all the aspects you hope to see on
a big cinema screen, and it isn't until quite a while after finishing
"Unknown" before its flaws and shortcomings come to the surface. It
sounds rather strange, but by now  only a couple days after my viewing
 I can't even remember that many things about "Unknown" that were
really original and/or genuinely impressive. In spite of delivering
constant thrills and mystery, the only thing I can think of now is how
simplistic the story really is and how the script actually reverts to
such easy excuses to explain the oddities. If you're planning on seeing
"Unknown", I strongly advise to enjoy the wild ride while it lasts and
immediately put your mind to other things when the film is over,
because if you contemplate too much about what you saw, there's a large
chance your opinion will change as well. The film already often gets
compared to "Reservoir Dogs" and it's fairly easy to see why. Five
rather sinister men are gathered in a secluded desert hangar and it's
more than likely that they're all involved in some kind of criminal
affair. Slight problem, though ... they suffer from mass-amnesia
following an incident or violent struggle and none of them knows
whether he is a good guy or a bad guy. One of them is tied down to a
chair, one is handcuffed and slowly dying from a gunshot wound, one
guy's nose is broken and the last remaining two men are desperately
trying to figure out what connects them. As the day passes by, brief
flashback and awkward phone calls reveal that the men are involved in a
kidnapping and that they are waiting for other accomplices to return to
the hangar. But, which of them are kidnappers and which of them are
hostages? And, even more importantly, what caused their temporary loss
of memory? The amnesia-aspect of the plot is intriguing at first, but
it becomes less plausible and definitely sillier as the film evolves.
It's a little too hard to believe that the characters don't remember
anything about their unusual situation and when the cause of the
amnesia is finally revealed, it only comes across as a mildly
acceptable excuse. Thanks to the minimum amount of filming locations,
"Unknown" does feature quite a bit of suspense and an occasionally
claustrophobic atmosphere. The screenplay suffers from the 'one twist
too many' syndrome at the end, like so many wannabe intellectual
psychological thrillers nowadays, but the writing skills of newcomer
Matthew Waynee are definitely promising and hopeful for the future of
the genre. The multi-talented cast provides this film with a bigger
status than it actually deserves, but they all play their roles with
great devotion. Jeremy Sisto's role ("Six Feet Under", "May", Wrong
Turn") is sadly the smallest and it hurts to realize he'll probably
always remain underrated. Greg Kinnear, Barry Pepper and Jim Caviezel
are good in their rather unconventional roles, while Peter Stormare
steals the show as the maniacal gangster.
<|_=00=_|>
A man wakes up in an abandoned warehouse. Groggily getting to his feet,
he sees several other men, some laying prone, one hanging from
handcuffs, one tied to a chair. The man has no recollection of who he
is, how he got there, who the other men are, nothing. No recollection
other than that he just woke up.

Unknown is a solid, twisty caper/thriller, about a kidnapping that
somehow goes wrong; we pick up the action the same time that our
protagonist (or is he?) does, so we have to piece things together with
him. And, as it turns out, with the others in the warehouse, each of
whom has suffered short-term memory loss. Who is "good," who is "bad,"
and where the heck are they? The man can't get out of the warehouse
(there are bars on the windows, and the only door to the outside is
electronically controlled), and they have limited means with which to
defend themselves. But what if some of them are the ones against whom
they should be defending? What then? One thing I liked about this
movie, above all else, really, was that whatever did happen, it was
neither blindly predictable nor completely implausible. No one trusts
anyone, really, but no one completely mistrusts others, either.

Helping matters is the wonderful, flawless cast, including Jim Caviezel
(as the initial waker-upper), Barry Pepper, Greg Kinnear, Joe
Pantoliano, Jeremy Sisto, Chris Mulkey, and Peter Stormare. Everyone is
dead on; there are no hams this time around. Everything just plain
feels right, and what's more, not one character is Good or Bad. Sure,
you wake up with Jim Caviezel, and you get the idea he's Good, but he
doesn't always act Good. If that makes sense.

See, at no point did I feel I comfortably knew what the hey hey was
going on. There were feints and double crosses, but not so haphazardly
that they lose meaning. We've all seen movies like that, movies that
are completely wrapped up in being clever and self-important, so they
managed to write themselves into a corner and therefore make no
freaking sense.

Unknown makes sense all along but still surprises, and that's saying
something. A lot better than you might imagine it being, based on its
title.
