
Author Gerald N. Lund wrote a series of novels about the founding and
expansion of Mormon Church entitled "Like a Fire is Burning." The Work
and the Glory: American Zion is the second part in what will be a
trilogy of films based on Lund's novels. American Zion is the Empire
Strikes Back of the Mormon Church, if you will. But in all seriousness,
religion or no religion (and I'm personally of no religious
persuasion), it's a well-done, well-made, superbly-acted film that's a
lot better than a majority of the crap that comes out of Hollywood
these days.

The prologue briefly discusses everything that happened in the previous
film, so even if you didn't see The Work and the Glory (Part 1), you
can still jump into this movie and more or less figure out what's going
on. In Part 1, the Mormon prophet Joseph Smith (played by a
brooding-but-gorgeous Jonathan Scarfe am I going to hell for calling a
prophet hot?) forms the Church of Latter Day Saints. In American Zion
(Part 2) we witness their brutal history of oppression and learn why
the Mormons kept migrating west. Everywhere they went, they were
attacked, threatened, and forcefully removed. It's gut wrenching to
watch. Men are whipped or covered in boiling tar, while women and
children are sent on death marches through the snow. The early Mormons
experienced a fate similar to the Native Americans and the Jews.

Look, I'm not Mormon, but this is a great movie. Every character is
believable and the story really does suck you in. After seeing the
first two films, I'm now totally invested in this story. And it ends on
such a cliffhanger that I honestly can't wait to see the next film 
The Work and the Glory: A House Divided. This is top-quality historical
drama, and any movie lover can enjoy it, not matter what their
religion.
<|_=00=_|>
The riveting depiction of the history of the Mormon church continues
via these screen adaptations of Gerald Lund's novels. The founding of
the Mormon church clearly fomented intense, irrational hatred from the
very beginning, especially vividly exposed in this episode. Some have
wondered why? Because they were different? Because they banded
together? Sometimes there is no rationale or justification for hatred
-- it's just there.

The Mormons apparently wanted nothing more that to be left to
themselves and their beliefs. Yet the raw emotion of fear and loathing
caused men to perpetrate unspeakable acts of depravity. More so than
against any other religious movement in America -- The Amanas, the
Quakers, the Mennonites weren't driven out, pillaged, murdered and
burned out by the mob! Hang your head in shame America! 

This movie portrays this horrendous American period vividly, without
exploiting the violence for the sake of shock-value. (We know what
happens when hot tar is painted on bare skin without having to actually
see it.) The fact that it happened, with the complicity of the
government, (Missouri Lieutenant Governor Lilburn W. Boggs) is shocking
enough. (The State of Missouri has only just recently apologized to the
Mormon Church for the outrages committed against it.) This episode
takes the Steed family from New York, to Ohio, then to Missouri, driven
out each time because intolerant Americans refused to allow them their
constitutionally guaranteed religious freedom and the government
refused to do anything about it.

The first movie was dream-like, ethereal, almost idyllic. This movie is
not any of those things. This move is gritty. Oh the movie is still
very well filmed, acted, scripted and produced. But it is utterly
gripping from the first frame to the closing credits. Not a bit preachy
or condescending, just good. Much better than most of what Hollywood is
cranking out these days. If you are a patriotic American, prepare to be
angry that such things happened in our history -- shame on us. Let us
resolve that such things will never be allowed to happen again.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent adaptation of the story told in the Work and the
Glory. No, it's not exactly like the book, but it's been 10 years since
I read the book, so it wasn't a problem for me. Most of the acting is
excellent--I especially enjoyed Jonathon Scarfe's portrayal of Joseph
Smith. In so many LDS movies Joseph is played stiff and pompously, but
Scarfe's Joseph is "real." Fans of Truman G. Madsen's "Joseph Smith"
lectures will note several direct quotes in this movie. Although this
movie will obviously appeal to members of the LDS faith, I don't think
it is overly religious and it should appeal to anyone looking for a
good historical family film. It takes a hard look at what befell many
early members of the LDS faith in a country that was founded on the
principals of religious freedom and freedom from persecution. 

I have to say that I miss Tiffany Dupont as Lydia McBride. I think her
character had more depth than Sera Bastian's. The ending is a bit
abrupt and, frankly, strange. Unless you know that Joshua moves to
Georgia in book 3 and becomes a "gentleman," it doesn't make any sense.
It is obviously a set up for the next movie in the series (out in
2006), but the fire would have been a better ending--IMHO.

Still, I definitely recommend this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
This second installment of the series based on the "Work and the Glory"
books far exceeds the first effort. The music, cinematography, story
line, acting and general "feel" of the movie are all great. I have not
read the underlying novels, so I have no idea how or if the story
details in the movie mirror the books, but I can say this: this movie
is moving, inspiring, and dramatically (though slightly fictionally,
since the main family is fictional) portrays a slice of true American
history.

I do not believe the movie is preachy, at least not about Mormonism. I
think most Americans (and others), who take for granted such notions as
a free press and upright civil authorities who can be trusted to uphold
the law, will easily recognize how different such things were back
then.

Mormon history buffs will be a bit disappointed that some of the
details were glossed over or left out. My only complaint is that, in an
attempt to make this movie appeal to non-Mormon audiences, some of the
more dramatic mythic stories from Joseph Smith's time, though alluded
to in the movie, are not satisfyingly portrayed.

Not for young children, this movie gets a 9 from me; just a bit more
coherence in the story line and some other such movie "polish" would
have garnered a 10.

Bravo to all involved! And thanks for a family-friendly, beautiful,
moral story that all who see can connect to.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was a bit violent, but then, those were violent times. Joseph
and others were tared and today, that would be a crime which would
place them into police custody. The movie was well done. I think the
characters were very well (fleshed out). It was a pleasure to see the
human side of the Prophet Joseph. I am sure he got tired and I know he
grieved for his lost children. The cast have captured the flavor of the
books, and I look forward to seeing the next installment. I think the
clothing was well done, those shirts looked SO uncomfortable! I don't
know if they were in the 1830's, but they surely didn't have the
wonderful fabrics we do today, and everything was made by hand, and
they were not wealthy people (except Martin Harris) so their clothing
was a reflection of that. By the way, the narrator has a clear and easy
to listen to voice. The only vague things were based on the
relationships with Ben/Joshua and Joshua/Jessica. If some one hadn't
read the books, or see the last movie, they might not really understand
what makes Ben and Joshua so angry with each other. Maybe that should
be a little more clear in the future. After all, if they are going to
make (9) movies, people will need to understand each movie as though it
were standing on it's own. It is a movie after all, not a mini-series
for TV.
<|_=00=_|>
First, let me clear up a couple of things. No, I am not going to be 97%
objective in my review. I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. I have never read the novels the movie is based on.
So, you aren't going to be hearing me harping on how it didn't live up
to the book, etc. Neither are you going to hearing how the LDS
filmmakers are using the movie to proselyte their religion.

First, the positives: The main actors do an excellent and convincing
job. The actor who plays Brigham Young (Andrew Bowen) could rival
Orlando Bloom in skills and screen-image appeal. Jonathan Scarfe, who
plays Joseph Smith, does an excellent job. The special effects are done
well. The cinematography is superbly done. It has a rough feel that
matches its era. The relationships between parents and children
(especially the babies) is especially endearing. Oh, yes, Eric Johnson
pulls off his character (Joshua Steed) very well, too.

Second, the negatives: Some of the supporting actors, that only have
one or two lines aren't very convincing or experienced and it weakens
some of the drama.

Well, gotta run.

The movie made me cry, probably cause I'm a dad.
<|_=00=_|>
I had been looking forward to seeing this movie forever. Finally, I
stepped into that theater, and was totally taken back.

The characters in the movie were very good, especially Joseph Smith
(Jonathan Scarfe) and Joshua (Eric Johnson.)

This movie was filled with deep, painful, and warming emotions that
made you want to grab a box of Kleenex and wipe their tears away. It
was truly remarkable.

The early Mormon Saints went through very hard times, and this movie
clearly shows it. It also shows how a family can be stretched and split
so many ways.

Yet, the Steed family and the Mormon Church are not about to give up,
because they know that "Every Dream has a Price."
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was something to enjoy. Of all the LDS films, this is one of
the greatest. The performance by the man who played Joseph Smith was so
believable and true to life; I have never seen an actor do so well
playing Joseph Smith. The music is absolutely beautiful. The best score
of an LDS film I've ever come across, and that is saying something
because of my extensive background in music. The PG-13 rating wasn't
needed. It was somewhat violent, but not enough to get that rating. The
church's films 'Legacy', 'The Lamb of God', and 'Finding Faith in
Christ' have just as much graphic violence. The violence was indeed
needed to portray what happened to Joseph and the rest of the Saints.
Overall, this film was brilliant. The only flaw is some of the acting.
there weren't very strong performances by Nathan and Lydia, but I
suppose they weren't given the chance as much.
<|_=00=_|>
My family and I recently saw "The Work and the Glory: American Zion" in
California and am so very glad to say it is better than anything I've
seen in a long while. I don't see why so many people have to pigeon
hole this film as a Mormon film. It happens to be a very well done film
about the 1830's and it happens to be about Joseph Smith and the Steed
family. The camera work and the acting is more than excellent. I
thought Jonathan Scarfe as Joseph Smith was good and Sam Hennings as
Ben Steed was as good as it gets. So please people get over the
religious talk and lets look at this film as a entertaining movie that
is very well done for the whole family to see. We can't wait for the
third film to come out. Thanks
<|_=00=_|>
I personally loved this movie and would recommend it to anyone. It is
historical fiction so it has a fictional family, the Steeds, who are
plunked down in the middle of actual events that happened in the United
States in the early to mid-1800's. It is true that the events surround
the starting of the Mormon church, but it is non-threatening and not
preachy at all. It simply portrays the events of that time and the
feelings and actions of the people surrounding it. It shows how people
reacted from many different angles and I think it is very well done and
brilliantly cast. I just love the actor who plays Joseph Smith! I do
think that all the actors were cast really well. This second movie has
a different person acting as Lydia, Emma Smith, and Martin Harris. I
had a hard time with that as I was too used to the actors from the
first movie, but they do not have big rolls in this movie so I was able
to get past it. All in all I thought it was one of the best movies I
saw in 2005 and plan to run right out and buy the DVD the first day it
comes out!
