
I just saw Gridiron Gang at a screening. It was great! The beginning
was very violent, depressing, and scary- to the point where my friend
and I considered leaving. It got better, though, and the violent
beginning actually did a good job of setting up the story of the rival
gangs. It was very well-acted, especially by The Rock. I was surprised
because this is the first movie I've seen him in that I actually
enjoyed. There was a good balance between the football aspect of the
movie and the story itself. It wasn't just a "football movie"- it was
about how playing on the football team was able to change the kids'
lives. The ending was really good.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, who would have thought that a professional wrestler would become
an actor... not just a star, but a real, true to life 'ACTOR'! Dwayne
Johnson has done this and he's seamless with his portrayal of Sean
Porter to the letter! 

The end of the movie shows several scenes of a documentary where the
real Sean Porter is saying the lines that Johnson was speaking in the
movie. The Rock makes those lines seem like his own and I bought into
every moment of it! 

Some characters were from actual kids that were in the L.A. juvie
detention center and others were obvious blended characters. Two of the
main characters were adversaries at the beginning and they become
close... very close friends. This scenario probably has happened in
real life, but they are fictionalized blends of probably many. The
producers even made the numbers on their jerseys the same, but
opposite. One was 13, the other 31... in other words, we are the same,
just the sequence is different. I don't know if anyone else caught
that, but I found it effective.

Overall, a very good movie with solid acting and a good script with a
good ending! I recommend it, but the language is rough. No sugar
coating the violence either. Not for kids, not even if the parents are
sitting right next to them!
<|_=00=_|>
Prepare to hear whining and complaining from movie critics who fall
outside the boundaries of this movie's target demographic by a good 15
- 20 years: "This is so predictable!" "What a bunch of clich√©s!" "We've
seen it all before!" 

You know what? I'm not going to argue with those points. I don't deny
that this is a by-the-numbers sports drama. "You can do it" speeches
fill the air, inspirational music soars high, and anybody well-versed
in this genre can easily call the shots. Come on, did you really doubt
that there'd be a jerk opposing player that we'd be forced to hate? Are
you naive enough to wonder if he'll get his comeuppance by the movie's
end? 

Gridiron Gang is a movie that understands who its audience is, and it
plays them like a fiddle. But you know what else? I don't care. The
audience absolutely loved it. Biggest crowd reaction of any movie I've
seen so far this year. They cheered when the gang got a touchdown, they
grimaced at every painful tackle, and they chanted for Johnny Betts to
take his shirt off. Hey, I thought it was a little out of place as
well. But who am I to deny my fans? 

Now I'm not saying this is a movie of the year contender, but I
thoroughly enjoyed it. I'm not ashamed of that, and I'm not going to
apologize for it. I'll even go so far as to admit that there were a
couple of scenes during which I got a little choked up - the only time
it's happened this year.

Yeah, I said it. You got a problem with it? My biker boots (size 11)
and I would be more than happy to discuss the issue. If you can turn an
indifferent eye to the scene near the end involving Rock's mother then
you, my friend, are a cold, cold man. Or woman.

What can I say? I'm a sucker for inspirational sports movies,
especially when they star an actor I like - and I really like The Rock.
His charisma and natural screen presence are undeniable, and he even
displays some impressive acting chops here. The man gives us real tears
- from BOTH eyes. Take that, Ashley Judd! 

Not every film has to be a deep, insightful masterpiece of epic
proportions with layers and layers of social commentary and
"vertiginous fluidity." Some movies are simply made to entertain.
What's wrong with giving the audience something to cheer? You know,
there are still a few moviegoers out there who want to go home happy
and inspired.

If you fit into that category then you won't have any problem ignoring
the familiarity of Gridiron Gang. The wonderful mixture of humor and
drama will suck you in and have you rooting for these kids to overcome
the odds.

If you've got a "Mr. Potter heart" then do us and George Bailey a favor
and stay home. The theater will be more pleasant without your
curmudgeonly ways.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) The movie is based on a true story of a juvenile detention
camp probation officer Sean Porter (Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson), who is
frustrated by the 75% recidivism rate of the teenage felons that he is
responsible for at Camp Kilpatrick. Sean Porter, a former college
football star, comes up with an idea to form a football team. Porter
believes that football will teach the teenage inmates what it takes to
be responsible, teammates, and be winners for the first time, not
losers. Porter and probation officer, Malcolm Moore (Xzibit) become the
coaches, and they only have 4 weeks to get a team together before their
first game. The juveniles must give up their gang rivalries on the
gridiron to unite as a team.

(My Comment) You may think that this is just another football movie,
but you would be wrong. This is one intense movie that gives you a
realistic look into the lives and attitudes of teenage gang members,
and their mindset that life means nothing to them when it comes to
being disrespected by other gang members. Coach Porter was able to
change their ways and give the young men a second chance, and they were
better for it. You may be surprised that the Rock actually did a fine
job of acting as Coach Porter. You must stay to the very end during the
credits, because they show scenes from the documentary of the actual
people. (Columbia Pictures, Run time 2:00, Rated PG-13)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen a lot of people rag on this film because it has a wrestler
in it. First of all lemme say something. This isn't the football movie
to end football movies. The Rock actually plays his part really well as
well as the other members of the cast. To totally brush this off would
be an injustice. I had my doubts as well, not because of The Rock but
because there are so many football movies that come out and a lot fail
to keep my attention. I loved Varsity Blues and The Program. The
Replacements failed to meet expectations and Remember the Titans was
just OK. and don't even mention The Longest Yard remake.... This film
is definitely above average. The presentation is handled well and The
Rock proves he belongs there. He also proves that he excels in drama
rather than being the action hero or the comedic role (although i did
enjoy The Rundown). So take a chance on the movie and chances are you
will enjoy the whole 2 hrs and some change that this movie is.
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of those, cry at times because you feel the pain, laugh at
times and cheer the underdogs. It is very true that people need to
adjust their thinking on juvies who make a mistake. After the do the
time the crime is paid for and they, as well as adult offenders,
deserve a second chance. I am a mother of two good boys who made a bad
choice. I hope the movie showed them that the choices made will hinder
you. I think the Rock and Exhibit were very good. I am glad my boys
wanted to watch this film. There was an excellent message. I would
recommend this film to everyone. You really get a chance to see the
inner workings of gangs and what they are really like.
<|_=00=_|>
Other than some bad language, I can't see why The Gridiron Gang rated a
PG. It's a really nice inspirational story about a man with idea to
slow down the rate of recidivism among juvenile offenders.

Based on the true story of Sean Porter, Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson plays
Porter a former college football star who thinks that if he can get
some of the kids to organize as a football team in his ward of the Los
Angeles Juvenile Detention Center it might keep them from going back to
the gangs and returning to jail or winding up dead.

The Rock, trading in on the name and image that professional wrestling
gave him, maybe for the first time is playing a normal human being
albeit a former sports star. No superhero heroics for once in this
film, just a man with an idea who inspires a bunch of kids to not think
of themselves as losers.

Dwayne Johnson dominates the film just as he dominated the ring in his
wrestling matches. He's got his own troubles as well, a mother who is
dying well he's dealing with the problems of his juvenile charges. But
he does persevere and he turns losers to winners.

It's a nice film about what can be accomplished when you believe in
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
For an L.A. native, disgusted with what has happened to a very
influential and potentially great city, knowing that there are attempts
to show alternate ways of life to the gang-riddled youth is in itself
hopeful. The film may seem formula-like, however it presents a true
story in the trappings of such formula without the often seriously
candy-coated drippings of maudlin ways. There are good performances
here, and including but not limited to Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, who
comes close to but never totally dominates what is an ensemble of
future stars. This is not only a youths-gone-bad movie and sports as
panacea film but a look at how, on occasion, the right intentions can
override the wrong pursuits.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a good movie. It is based on a true story about a man named
Sean Porter a real live coach for juveniles played by the "THE ROCK."
He wants to coach some 16 and 17 year old juvenile delinquents in a
detention facility in hopes of making them change their violent and
criminal ways. He wants to teach them team work and to take their minds
off gangs and to also learn respect. Since a lot of juveniles return
back to their gangs or prison again or end up dead. This movie does
send a good message to the youth who are incarcerated. That they can
become better people if they are given a second chance. The acting done
by "THE ROCK" and "XZBIT" were realistic and inspiring. (8/10).
<|_=00=_|>
I mean this film outshines Invincible,which is of course is another
true story. This film proves to be gritty and real as it gets.
Dwayne(The Rock)Johnson gives a terrific performance, he proves to be
an awesome actor, and not just an action film star. The film takes
place at a juvenile detention center run by Sean Porter(Dwayne Johnson)
who feels he is not making a difference with the young hoodlums who
come in and out. In hopes to keep them in line, he makes them into a
football team, so that most of these young hoodlums that hate each
other, will become a team and stand together as one. At times this is
not an easy movie to watch, but it is reality, you fell the frustration
of these young men. The young cast do well also. I shore hope Dwayne
Johnson will get nominated for an Oscar.
