
"The Invasion" had a lot going for it. It had two big stars, an
acclaimed director, a big time producer, and a time tested premise. The
only thing missing was a script.

"The Invasion" does not follow the same story as the earlier movies.
They took the premise and made a new story. The new story has only a
threadbare plot, no character development, and some of the most banal
dialog I have heard in recent years. At 93 minutes, there are long
passages that go nowhere and do nothing for the story.

Whoever gave the green light to this production without having a decent
script first should be fired.

Despite that, there are some parts that are watchable. It is just
frustrating that they could not have come up with a better story and
better characters.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't know much about Invasion before I walked into this movie. I
heard the bad reviews from critics but hell, who listens to them? While
watching this movie, I wasn't aware that The Invasion was re-filmed and
rewritten. Apparently they rewrote it to add the twist in the end, as
well as they added more action sequences with faster and better-angled
camera work.

So the movie starts off right away with Carol Bennell (Nicole Kidman)
scattering around the medicine cabinet in a Pharmacy whispering "stay
awake, don't fall asleep" to herself. The neat fast-paced camera work
kept you right into the movie from the beginning, but sadly the amazing
beginning just doesn't match up to the pathetic ending. It seemed like
they got tired of writing the movie so they decided to end it off with
a simply and quick ending.

Some organism from a different planet crashed down to Earth and took
over the citizens of the world. When the organism comes in contact with
a human, they will become a different alien-ish like being obsessed
with capturing people and affecting the world with their plague. When
each person was affected, they would turn into these emotionless,
mindless and painless zombies while they sleep. In search of her son,
Carol Bennell gets affected and must stay awake so she would be able to
save her boy. With help from Ben Driscoll (Daniel Craig) and his team
of doctors, they go on the search for a cure, to save humanity and
especially, save Carol.

I find that this movie gave off the message it was trying to, but in
the process it failed at almost everything else. I was expecting,
before walking into this movie that it would be filled with suspense
with my heart jumping ever so often... but I wasn't scared or thrilled
once. The suspense scenes had great music playing, had the great camera
angles, but was just missing the spice to make it really work. And in
regards to the end of the movie... I can promise you the writers got
tired of having to rewrite a story and just through in a quick,
painless ending. Course the quick painless ending resulted in annoyance
for the audience.

While I walked out of the theater, I was thinking about this movie and
how I would interpret it. One thing came to my head, and it was that
the new directors did what they were supposed to - make me think and
remember this movie once I leave the theater. This was NOT a
forgettable movie, rather quite memorable. Sure there was a bad ending,
but my eyes were attached to the screen throughout the whole film. I
didn't look at my watch once, and for me that gives this movie a big
bonus.
<|_=00=_|>
We went to see this last night. After all of the horrific reviews, I
was expecting a real P.O.S. I was pleasantly surprised. While not to
say it was an AWESOME movie or anything. It was good Sci Fi fun. I get
irritated when a lot of movie buffs are looking for every film to be a
Gone with the Wind or something. This was just a fun, smooth,
entertaining production. I've never been a real fan of Nicole kidman,
but I must say, she was quite fetching in this movie. If you are
looking for the 50's version of War of the Worlds..The forbidden
planet..John Carpenter's the THING...etc..it doesn't qualify. If you
are looking for a fun Sci Fi Thriller to watch, it does the job.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly don't think the movie is worth an 8, not in its released
form. But since the cuts and additions from the suits are so painfully
obvious, I'm willing to give a higher rating to the movie that could
have been... and for now, only the original director Oliver something
has seen.

So the original movie (which is still discernible somehow) was supposed
to be a dark, slow take on isolation, pill overuse and boring modern
life. With a twist: a mom so desperate to protect her child, she would
silently watch other people being killed as long as she can find her
kid. That's actually moving and seldom seen in a macho-dominated
Hollywood. I won't say that ice cold Kidman is the right choice to
depict a desperate mom, but given that her role is to often look
emotionless (so she can pass as another "pod people") she doesn't do
too badly.

Now, the suits didn't like that and called those soft-brained Wachowski
bros to make it -supposedly- more mainstream. And what they did was to
add car chases, crashes, helicopters, fires and senseless violence in
general. Inserted into the original movie at close intervals to keep
people amused (or so they thought). Now, there are a few good directors
who can pull out a combination of slow burn and crazy action. But a
patchwork movie made of two different directors' bits, guys with widely
opposed instincts and goals, no wonder the result is a flop.

If anything is to be learned from this, it's how little do Hollywood
executives know about what makes a good movie. Granted, a non-stop
mishmash of violence and fifth-drink bar philosophy like The Matrix can
earn the big bucks, but you can't expect Matrix-like bits to improve
what was intended to be a slow paced, moody film. Which was probably
condemned to be a box office failure, but also could have been pretty
good.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, this is not a scary movie. Instead, there is an
atmosphere of tenseness, especially when Kidman and Craig's characters
must pretend to have already changed in order to survive. Kidman easily
carries this film, and she makes you believe the plot line that another
actress would have easily made ludicrous. I have read some critical
reviews questioning the casting of Kidman in this role, mostly due to
the fact that her icy demeanor is seemingly miscast in a role that
calls for emotion. However, I believe that it is this very demeanor
that allows her to be believable in this film. She plays an extremely
smart psychologist who catches on to the situation fast. She is an
analyzer, and it is her lack of deep emotion that allows for her to
think quickly and critically, without it, she would have easily
succumbed to the body snatchers and there would have been no movie.
There is indeed a liberal undercurrent through this movie. It questions
our role in Iraq but more importantly, it questions our actions as a
species, our emotions, our anger, our selfishness, and their effects on
our society. To create a world in which everyone is equal, rational, no
war, no disease, no famine, no inequality is what the body snatchers
are offering...and for this movie goer, there was at least one point in
the film in which I found myself asking whether that would be so bad.
Sure, the ending was a little too quick and tidy, but overall, this was
a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually went into this movie with pretty high expectations,
considering that the Wachowski brothers were involved and it seemed
like an interesting premise from the trailers. Well, as it turned out,
somehow all of that potential was utterly wasted. From beginning to end
this movie is boring, predictable, and terribly clich√©d. I kept hoping
until the end that at some point it would get better, but bit for bit
everything in this movie is the epitome of all that is trite and stale
in sci-fi movies and little to nothing of what is interesting and
original. 

Every crummy sci-fi/horror movie starts out with little hints of
whatever fantastic thing is supposed to happen later, and so did The
Invasion. Except, in The Invasion this whole section keeps pointing out
things to the audience that were mind-numbingly obvious. "My husband is
not my husband anymore..." Oh really? Well surely she's just some
nut-case and it has nothing to do with the storyline that's been
explained on TV commercials and in movie trailers for the past several
months! I honestly don't understand why filmmakers like these
frequently feel the need to spend half of the movie beating the
audience over the head with information that they could (and probably
already did) find in a one sentence synopsis of the film. 

Per the typical, trite sci-fi/horror movie formula there's also a scene
where the main character brings a same of something weird to a
scientist and he examines it and conveniently explains everything that
the audience needs to know about the substance/disease/alien race in a
straightforward, uninteresting way. There are so many scenes like this
where the characters are supposed to be revealing something new and
interesting but it just comes out as if the writers think that the
audience is a a bunch of slobbering morons who can't take a simple
hint. 

Here's one detail that particularly struck me for its idiocy: about a
third of the way through the movie, there's a scene where the Russian
guy (who cares what his name is) basically explains (through a
convenient monologue) the thesis of the movie which goes something
like, "a world without newspapers constantly talking about violence and
hatred is a world without humanity." Later on, there are some segments
showing on a TV that say that fighting has ended in Iraq and then
Daniel Craig's character gives another speech that is very obviously
supposed to be a counterpoint to the first one that goes something
like, "in our world, there is no need to hurt one another." At the end,
after the aliens are nearly destroyed Daniel Craig talks about how 87
people just died in Iraq. As if ALL this information wasn't enough to
make you draw some sort of a connection, they just have to drill it
directly into your skull by replaying the Russian guy's quote again. I
could mention plenty more things like this, but I'm starting to get
annoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
The 70s remake of this film succeeded because it was a chilling
psychological thriller with little to no horror film elements and a
biting ending that lingered with you for days.

This film starts out with the premise and setup, but quickly deviates
into a different film -- a rehashing of 28 days later and outbreak with
illogical, formulaic action sequences that are literally lifted
straight from any zombie film. As usual with sub-par screenplays, the
plot requires illogical and implausible events to move forward and
provide thrills. In the end, it couldn't make up its mind whether it
was an intellectually compelling, psychological thriller or yet another
zombie action film? The ending was ... eh I don't even want to explain
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood destroyed everything good about this film. 

There was a resounding creepiness that looms over the body snatcher
remakes and the original. This film misses that on every mark. No
pods... No siren screams... And the ending, well, is a slap in the face
to the concept.

If your not a fan or have never seen any other versions you might think
it is OK. But thats it, just OK. They screwed up one of the scariest
concepts ever thought up. Permormences were OK. It had one or two
bright points but overall it was crap. 

Take the cgi out of war of the worlds and you have invasion... thats
not a good thing.
<|_=00=_|>
I admit that I was hesitant about seeing "The Invasion" after reading
some poor reviews and coming to this message board. I also was leery
after learning that part of it was re-shot by different directors which
is usually a very bad sign. Plus the fact that they give Kidman a kid
in this film had me leery for I often grow weary of female leads in
suspense/action/horror films having to protect children instead of
other adults like male leads do especially if the kids are annoying.

So, I almost didn't see "The Invasion" after reading and hearing all of
the complaints about no plot, no real character development, bad acting
and poor directing/editing.

Yet, I finally agreed to just go with my gut and take a chance on a
matin√©e show of "The Invasion." Boy, am I glad that I did, not only
because I did not have to pay the outrageous full price of ten bucks
but I actually liked this film.

Despite what some are saying this film does have a plot. People are
actually doing things that lead to other plot points like the whole
deal with Veronica Cartwright's character and Kidman's character
leaving her son with the ex-husband. These two story lines lead to
important discoveries and actions that happen later on in the film.

Also, there is character development. Kidman's character does develop
because she's forced to change in order to survive and to protect
herself and her son. The warm relationship between Kidman's character
and her son and Ben also is established.

So beyond these relationships do we really need to dwell on the other
characters for too long? After all this is a plot driven movie not a
character driven movie. Besides, if they had taken time to thoroughly
get into everyone else's back story people would be whining about the
movie being too long. But I digress.

Also, I thought that all of the actors did a good job especially
Kidman. She showed good range from being a caring psychiatrist, to a
loving mother to a terrified woman to a desperate mother who would do
anything to protect her child. I also like the mood and tone of this
film. Granted the Pod People in the 1956 and 1978 versions were a tad
bit creepier but I liked this film better than the 1978 version overall
and I didn't miss that crazy scream. However, the 1956 version is
definitely a classic.

Sure "The Invasion" is not perfect and it has it flaws and I feel that
the studio probably should have left the original version alone. After
all, the majority of the film is stronger than the last half which is
obviously where the re-shoots took place. Still despite the unnecessary
out of order time cuts, and a tad too many car crashes, the film still
worked for me. I was definitely entertained.

Now that's saying a lot especially since I went in with low
expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
You hafta' go into every movie with an open mind if you're going to
give it a fair assessment, right? Well, I did exactly that with "The
Invasion". Despite all the heavy and (quite) ugly criticism this movie
received, it had a fair cast and it isn't too often that Nicole Kidman
is in something completely awful. Let it be known, as well, that I am a
big fan of both the original and the 1978 versions of "Invasion of the
Body Snatchers". It is reasonable to speculate that fans of either of
those two films will be disappointed with this latest stab at the "body
snatcher" storyline.

However, I asked myself, is the point to compare this film against its
predecessors or should I evaluate this film on its own merits alone? I
decided the latter was the right course and with this in mind, I
watched "The Invasion".

The film opens with a very frantic Carol Bennell (played by Nicole
Kidman) rummaging through the shelves of a pharmacy. She is searching
for sleep suppressants. We are then taken back in a recent past where a
space shuttle crash lands into the countryside. The shuttle's wreckage
has brought back something with it. From the moment that Bennell's
ex-husband (played Jeremy Northam) pricks his fingers on a foreign
organism, life becomes a serious drag for the (evidently, terrible)
human species. Bennell, who is a psychiatrist, doesn't get it at first
when one of her patients (played by Veronica Cartwright who also
starred in the 1978 "Invasion of the Body Snatchers) irately claims her
husband isn't her husband. But it doesn't take long before Bennell
figured out that all is not right in Everytown, USA.

This film was not awful. This was, by no means, the worst of the
"snatchers" make-overs. 1993's "Body Snatchers" is my nominee for that
award. There were some moments in this film that worked well such as a
brief, but tense scene when Bennell and her son (played by Jackson
Bond) are unsure whether the other is... them. I also liked the
"attempt" at a different approach to the body snatching "method". All
in all, for me what kept me watching was Kidman. No, not just because
she's a super-hottie (although it never hurts.) She adeptly became
Bennell and breathed life into her character. I actually thought this
was one of her better performances. 

This could have been an excellent film, but as is all too often the
case these days, character development was not a priority. Beyond
Kidman as Bennell, character development was non-existent. How people
are being snatched, also, is never adequately, not even remotely,
explained. Wherein the other snatcher films, while the victim sleeps
their body rotted away and their alien replacement is created within a
giant pea-pod, in "The Invasion" the process is never identified. This
makes for a very weak ending. Truly, with today's SFX, this could have
been an extraordinary "revelation". What was most disappointing was the
attempt at social and political commentary. Good grief! I cannot think
of a more articulate adjective then just plain...lame.
