
It was very disappointing.

I adored the first movie to pieces. I own the DVD and regularly play it
on movie nights with my friends. It's great unexpected fun, quotable,
and a visual spectacle. The characters are surprisingly likable, and
Depp comes roaring in like a breath of fresh air as Capt. Jack.

The problem with the third movie (as well as the second) is that it
lost touch with it's roots. The first movie, while heavy with the
supernatural stuff, was still pretty grounded in a fairly accurate real
world. The characters were over the top, yes, but still believable, and
above all, relatable. Their motives and predicaments all made a great
deal of sense (i.e. Elizabeth wanting to marry Will, Barbossa wanting
to be free of the curse, Jack simply wanting to get a boat so he could
live his life of freedom). Unfortunately, in the new movies, the
writers have lost touch with the first movie's charm. The plots are so
convoluted it's difficult to decipher, much less remember, a
character's desires and motives. It's much less emotionally grounded.
It has also become so thick into this supernatural fantasy land that it
has hardly any link to the real world at all. This would not have been
a problem were the filmmakers not so intent on special effects and
visual spectacles that they forgot to tell a good, solid story.

I believe this movie would have been better if the writers had kept to
a more straightforward plot and toned down much of the "grand
spectacle" stuff which really dominated the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
(contains spoilers... but trust me, that won't matter).

it's safe to say that Johnny Depp single-handily made the 'pirate'
series a success. if not for Depp telling interviewers Keith Richards
inspired his captain jack-isms, Keith Richards would certainly not have
appeared in the 3rd movie. in between the excessive amount of canon
balls/sword fights scenes, i couldn't wait to get home and tear this
movie to shreds. 

it's such an easy formula: three parts jack sparrow, eleven parts
talking about jack sparrow, two parts love stories, six parts pirate
ships emerging from water, five parts capturing, five parts rescuing
and ten parts action/violence/sword fights. mix haphazardly against
elaborate sets and computer graphics. let set for three hours until the
audience rises.

the movie could be broken down into FOUR major flaws:

POOR WRITING. it seemed the writers were very aware that audiences were
only going to see 'Pirates' for Jack Sparrow, so they thought... "hmmm,
if people love Jack so much... they'll love THREE jacks, or FOUR jacks,
or even MORE Jacks!!" so they made scenes reminiscent of Alice in
Wonderland where Jack hallucinates and sees many of himself. the mood
and overall appearance of these scenes drastically contrast with the
mood and overall appearance of the film. for a minute i thought i was
watching an Oompa Loompa scene from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.

TOO MANY CHARACTERS: accompanying poor writing was the addition of too
many characters. in a nutshell: jack's crew (which was two crews
combined), the British crew, the squid's crew, and a new Asian crew all
have different agendas that (of course) require the other crews to be
killed. Elizabeth (Knightly) becomes captain of the Asian crew, Orlando
bloom becomes captain of the squid crew and Jack bounces between every
crew as he is traded and captured for deal-making. Orlando bloom's
character wants to free his father, Jack wants to be immortal, Kiera
Knightly's character wants to be with Orlando Bloom again, the squid
wants the sea goddess, Elizabeth wants to kill the British captain for
killing her father, the British crew wants jack dead and the Asian crew
wants to be a part of whichever crew is getting the treasure. but is
there even treasure?!! the object they're all after is a beating heart.
and yes, it's as confusing as it sounds.

OLD JOKES. just like the second, all of the "comedic" moments in the
third movie relied on recycled material from the first movie. the humor
in 'pirates' can be attributed to six subjects: 1) the wooden eye:
kudos to whoever thought to give that guy a wooden eye because you
added 30 pages of plot to each film!! 2) jack, the monkey: the only
character whose acting improved by the third film. he's also in a lot
more of the scenes in the third movie. my boyfriend thought he was the
best part. and he was right. 3) rum jokes: the first movie relied
heavily on rum jokes. since the third movie didn't know what the hell
it was doing, it hit up the booze too. 4) the sexual tension between
jack and elizabeth. the clich√© "trust me, it would have never worked
between us..." lines return again. 5) jack getting slapped: yes, women
love to slap jack sparrow. we got that one already, thanks. 6) sheer
stupidity/slapstick humor: the other nanoseconds of anticipated (but
unreceived) humor relied on the dumb antics of the fat guy and the
skinny guy with the wooden eye. 

CONFUSING PLOT. it felt as though the writers made this movie up as
they were filming it and when they were running low on plot someone
said, "i know, let's make one of the crew members turn out to be a sea
goddess!!" and since there are only two female main characters (one
being Kiera Knightly), the Jamaican-sounding chick landed the role of
sea goddess. this made the plot entertaining for about 20 seconds when
the Jamaican chick turned into the 50 ft. woman and started talking
like the Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man and then exploded into millions of
crabs at which point i leaned over to my boyfriend and said, "haha, she
had crabs!!" needless to say, i don't plan on seeing the 4th or 5th or
6th Pirates movie. but i will be curious to see if Depp stays aboard. 

bottom line: if you were planning on seeing pirates, go see Waitress
instead. written by: Jena Ardell
<|_=00=_|>
The Pirates of the Caribbean-movie serials is probably one I'll never
grow tired off. The characters are fun and great, always adventurous
and spectacular to watch. 

It's really too bad that this time they felt the need to make things
even bigger, more complex and conclusive than the previous two movies.
Really not needed. In my opinion the first movie "Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is still the best because of
the reason that it's simple, fun and choices to be purely entertaining.
They already went wrong with this approach during the second movie;
"Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest", when they put in more new
characters and different hard to follow plot lines. "Pirates of the
Caribbean: At World's End" goes on in the same trend as the previous
movie. There are more new characters and as far as the new many
plot-lines are concerned...well let me just say that after a while I
just gave up trying to understand the movie and just let the movie take
me away with its visuals, humor and other entertaining elements. And
this movie regardless should really be able to take you away on a
roller-coaster-ride of pure entertainment.

No doubt in my mind that this movie could had become the best one out
of the series. It had all the potential and budget for that, now if
they had only cut down about halve of the script...Most of the
plot-lines seem redundant and are actually far from believable because
they contradict from what happened in the first two movies. The many
betrayals among characters and side-picking became really confusing
after a while, till it reached a point when you just didn't knew who
was fighting for what. But like I said before, after a while you just
stop caring about it and simply enjoy the movie for what it brings you.
It all is also the reason why the movie is now nearly 3 hours long. Now
the movie is not as good and entertaining as the first but maybe just
slightly better than the second one, because of the large scale of this
movie. 

The movie is definitely big. There is no lack of action as some people
claim there is. There is just as much action as there is in the first
two movies, only difference this time is that the movie is nearly 3
hours long and therefor the movie also has some more talking-sequences
and slower moments in it.

The movie is also big with its musical score by Hans Zimmer and he
actually succeeded in composing a new great theme for the movie. In its
action moments the movie gets definitely uplifted by its musical score.

The action sequences are definitely well constructed and at times pure
eye candy. So are the special effects, although I feel that the second
movie was still better on that. It seems like they tried to overdo
things this time and I'm mainly talking about the end battle, when it
comes down to its special effects, by putting in some complex shots. No
matter how good CGI is these days, you still see that it's CGI. 

Most roles get extended in this movie. Marty, Tia Dalma and even Jack
the monkey and Cotton's parrot. But of course the movie still remains
the Jack Sparrow-show. Really one of the best characters in recent
years, all thanks to Johnny Depp, who provide the movie with its
biggest laughs and most hilarious absurd moments. He still plays the
character as good and fresh as he did for the first time 4 years ago.
You can't just ever grow tired of Jack Sparrow. I was also very pleased
to see Geoffrey Rush back as Barbossa. His role was bigger which
allowed Geoffrey Rush to shine even more. Bill Nighy was also as good
as always as Davy Jones. Orlando Bloom's and Keira Knightley's acting
also has really improved over the years. I was actually surprised to
see how much of the movie Keira Knightley carries this time and how
well she does this. Even in the sequences with Geoffrey Rush she does.
She also gets to do more interesting in the movie when it comes done to
action. In a way she has taken over the Will (Orlando Bloom) role in
this movie this time and Will himself gets pushed more to the
background this time compared to the first two movies, which really
shouldn't bother most people, unless you're a teenage-girl of course.
She handles both the action- and comical sequences really well. And
even Keith Richards shows up in an already classic cameo as Jack's
father. But some role also got narrowed down to my regret, such as
Jonathan Pryce's and Jack Davenport's and lets not forget the Kraken.

Still, I really wouldn't mind seeing more Pirates of the Caribbean
movies in the future, if needed with new actors and characters, as long
as Johnny Depp stays as Jack Sparrow. The serials still have more than
enough potential and haven't dried up yet.

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Less than a year after the previous installment of the popular pirates
trilogy, Jack Sparrow and company return in Pirates of the Caribbean:
At World's End. The film should be great, given a three hundred million
dollar budget, huge anticipation, and the closure a third installment
inevitably brings to a series. While this film does show its budget and
is quite visually arresting, it lacks a fair share of resolution to the
trilogy and confuses with its overflowing exposition rather than purely
existing to entertain.

Even in an action packed pirate movie, overly chatty sequences will
simply bore audiences just because it's too hard to follow what exactly
is being said. The movie really just had too many vague or unnecessary
plot points that didn't affect the main plot at hand.

All the acting was perfectly fine, with Johnny Depp as Captain Jack
Sparrow and Geoffrey Rush as Captain Barbosa unsurprisingly being the
standouts. The introduction of Depp's character in the pirate
equivalent of Hell called Davy Jones' Locker is a particular favorite,
as well as the scenes at World's End, which somehow involves a giant,
deep waterfall. Keith Richards' hyped cameo as Jack's father is nothing
to go crazy for, he does a decent job, but his screen time lasts only
about two minutes.

Director Gore Verbinski and his crew knew going into this that the
reviews would be mixed and the plot would be confusing (in order to
encourage repeat viewings), but honestly, at nearly three hours, the
more the film confuses you the more it becomes an endurance test. Also,
rather than providing a satisfying conclusion to the series, the end
opens up the possibility for a fourth installment, which might not even
happen. The crew put every penny of the film's budget on screen, made
evident in the hour or so of its bloated climax. The film looks and
feels like a true epic, shots are wide, locations are vast, costumes
are extravagant, and the scope is large. However, the film needs to
scale down its plot in order to let the characters we fell in love with
stand out and shine, as that's what makes these films unique.
<|_=00=_|>
If you, like me, were disappointed by the over-hyped, sloppy and
disappointing returns of Shrek and Spiderman in the first two
mega-threquels of the summer, then I have good news for you. One third
entry in a huge cinema franchise is every bit as good as you would
expect.

While lacking the surprise of the original, the third Pirates film is
much better than the second (though I liked it, I thought it had too
many jokes and gags; a lot of the heart in the first was missing it
seemed). Its lengthier, and not in a slowed-down way. Longer meaning
more action, more characters (Chow Yun Fat and Keith Richards are
awesome), and a final battle so enriched with awesome design, careful
choreography and stunning visual effects it will blow your mind.

The cast is great, the thrills all first-rate. I don't want to give
away any of the surprises and great moments to die-hard fans like
myself. Just trust me: this summer spend your buck on Pirates...it's
worth it!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I adored POTC 1, was a bit disappointed in POTC 2 (mainly the ending)
and found POTC 3 to be a mix of the previous two. The awesome music is
still in place, it's a bit faster paced than 2 (even with sections of
dialogue in place), and the majority of characters get their
come-uppance. There's heaps of sword fights and more cannons than I've
seen in my life. The special effects are seamless and mix with great
cinematography and top notch costumes & makeup. Many characters are
more fully fleshed out, which was nice to see.

However the ending is NOT pure Disney, which surprised me somewhat.
Major characters die, and all is not rosy sunsets and fluffy kittens.
That was a bit of a surprise, a couple of characters seemed to just
disappear and there's an obvious link left open for another movie.
Whether it's made or not is another thing entirely (and unlikely from
what I hear).

One more point... stay until the end of the credits for an interesting
extra scene.
<|_=00=_|>
Just finished viewing a private screening of the final chapter of the
Pirates of the Caribbean and can confirm it does not disappoint.

The original is still the best but 'At World's End' completes the
trilogy on a high note.

Johnny Depp continues to shine as Captain Jack and Chow Yun Fat makes a
huge impact as Captain Sao Feng. Academy Award winner Geoffrey Rush
returns as Barbossa and his exclusion from most of the 2nd movie was
the reason it was my least favorite out of the whole trilogy. Keira
Knightly and Orlando Bloom complete the All-star class and do an OK job
as their respective characters.

The whole film build up to the final battle which is one of the finest
since the Lord of the Rings. 

If your a Pirates of the Carribbean Fan, this one is not to be missed.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
AWE was a decent close to the trilogy (although they did leave it open
for the possibility of a 4th).

Lets go down the list: 1) Holy cow. The CGI is breathtaking. The
details on the sets is just as breathtaking. The filming sites were
beautiful. These are a talented group of folks I tell ya. GREAT job.

2) Acting .. both good and bad. Sparrow, Barbossa, Beckett, Norrington,
Jones, and Gibbs provided some very good acting and funny moments.
However, they were offset by Pintel and Ragetti (they got annoying in
the 2nd film and it didn't stop here. While I enjoyed the idea of Tia
Dalma's character, I wasn't impressed with the performance by beautiful
Miss Harris. I haven't especially liked Keira all that much in other
things she has done and it was the same here. Decent actress but not
overly impressive. Stellan's portrayal of Bill Turner was decent enough
but a notch down from what we KNOW he can do. Now the best for last. Im
a 100% hetero male and even I can say that Orlando Bloom is a VERY good
looking guy. But for the love of pete, this guy is one of the most
terrible actors ever and strangely, he was cast in two of the biggest,
most profitable trilogies ever. He has essentially played the same
character in every movie, just with different costumes. His mannerisms,
his low "sexy" voice, his facial expressions .. ALLLL the same, all the
time. Sooo blahhhhhhh.

3) The story was good but there was too much of it. It has been said
here but I will say it again. At one point, I just stopped trying to
follow along and just enjoyed it. Everyone stabbed everyone else in the
back at least once. It wasn't "hard to follow" but a movie like this
isn't supposed to make you think. You want that, go see .... Clue :P
the whole Singapore thing was just unneeded. While it did add a new
element to the film, it just seemed too forced.

4) Running time was a tad bit long but it passed fairly quickly due to
the great action sequences.

All in all .. I was impressed with the movie, but it has its problems.
Much like part 2.

I say go and see it. You wont be disappointed but you wont walk out
thinking you just saw a masterpiece either.

Just my thoughts ...
<|_=00=_|>
Crap!!! Terrible, terrible CRAP! I feel sorry of those who think that
this is a 10-star movie. I was bored, then frustrated, and at the end
angry. I can't believe that somebody is ready to spend so much money
but can't make a decent script or at least cogent story. The dialogs
are stupid most of the time, monologues are idiotic (exept the
monologues of Sparrow with himself) - especially the cry for battle and
freedom of Keira at the end of the film: I felt sick... This kind of
films destroy the film as an art, as something beautiful, something
that can wheedle the emotions out of you, something that you'll think
about and remember for a long time. This film is a product that need's
to be sold. It is consumer oriented and could be rated with 10s only in
consumer oriented society.
<|_=00=_|>
OK. So the first one was a great movie. second one was alright. So i
went to the midnight showing of Pirates and accidentally fell asleep
during the hour and a half of pointless content that is the first part
of the movie. I went and saw it again and watched every minute and let
me say, it was so bad and the plot line so choppy that once the movie
was over i was unsure of the definitions of reality. Quite literally, i
could have made a better movie with no camera. Jack Sparrow went
insane, Elizabeth Swan learned to fight with the best of them, and
suddenly the kraken, which was the basis of the second movie, got
killed and ridden off in one line of dialogue. The writers of this
movie should quit. and i don't mean just writing. i mean living. how do
you screw up this movie? all you have to do is write a story about
going to rescue jack without the driving over waterfalls, turning into
crabs, or creating another movie's worth of plot about pieces of eight,
which in the end got put in a bowl and burnt which made smoke that
could have been drawn better with a dull rock. by the way, when you put
magic into a movie, i don't want it explained. at all. just say what
happened and ill catch up. because i know how people can be brought to
life *cough cough* Barbosa *cough cough*. This movie SUCKED.
