
I am usually tolerant of horse movies. I don't expect the actors to be
the best riders or horse handlers. I expect mistakes to be made and
things to be wrong. I try to sit back and just enjoy the story. This is
what I expected to do recently when I picked up a new horse movie
called The Derby Stallion. 

Well it was simply awful. The lead could not ride at all. I feel they
could have found an actor with riding skills. Even worse was when they
switched to the legs of a dark bay horse jumping when the lead horse
was a bright chestnut. They should have taken the time to do the
research and find the right people.

Overall I was not impressed with the way this movie was shot and put
together. Some of the close-ups seemed too close and out of focus and
actually made me dizzy. I feel a lot more could have been done to make
this movie better starting with an actor who had real life horse
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film. The acting was great and Zac Efron did some
really nice work.I was drawn to this film because I ride horses and
like racing. I didn't know much about Steeplechase before this movie.
It is cool...looks pretty hard and a little dangerous but fun. 

I also enjoyed Houston Jones character and his relationship with Zac's
character, "Patrick". It reminded me of my relationship with my
granddad.The parents were good too, and the girl that plays Jill, is
hot! My mother liked the film too, and said she would recommend it to
her friends to buy for their kids because its a family movie that she
enjoyed watching with me. There are some surprises in it that I won't
tell you. Randy's character is a good bad guy. I think you will like it
as much as I did!
<|_=00=_|>
I will begin by saying that the only reason I watched this movie is
because I like Zac Efron and was curious to see his other work.
Considering the film hasn't received much attention outside of the Zac
Efron fanbase, I had my reservations about how the film might turn out.
Unfortunately, I wasn't mistaken.

'The Derby Stallion' has a very straightforward, some might even say
clich√©, storyline: a boy befriends an older-mentor archytype (think an
old, black Yoda) and needs to learn how to ride steeplechase in order
to compete against his rival and win the big derby at the climax of the
film.

The film starts out with 15 year old Patrick in conflict with his dad
who wants him to become a star baseball player. Instead, Patrick spends
his time hanging out with the local town drunk, Bill Cobbs' Houston
Jones, who regales him with tales of being a steeple chase rider.
Naturally his parents disaprove of their friendship but this changes
when Patrick takes an interest in riding and wants to compete in the
big derby. Everything is going great until Houston passes away and
Patrick, consumed by grief and lacking in confidence, decides to quit
riding. At the last minute, he changes his mind and everything is set
right. The film ends with a shot of Patrick leaving his trophy at
Houston's grave, his family at his side.

The film is typically corny, rife with a very predictable storyline and
the usual conflicts/resolutions that one might find in most family
films. However, the ending of the film is so hasty and anti-climactic
that I couldn't but help feel like it was done in a very half-assed
way. Also, as many others have pointed out, the fact that the Patrick
character becomes so skilled in such a short period of time defies
logic and the so-called 'relationship' between horse and jockey is
seems shaky at best.

The one bright spot is Bill Cobbs who does a fairly decent job
portraying the relationship of Houston's 'Yoda' to Patrick's 'Luke'
(yes, there's even a line in the film that is essentially paraphrases
"Do, or do not. There is no try."). Other than that the film is
forgettable. I'm sure there will be enough interest generated by Zac
Efron's celebrity to get the film seen, but any serious rider, as
others have previously posted, will find the premise and execution
weak.

Edited for typo.
<|_=00=_|>
Horses and Zac Efron, a match made in cinematic heaven, right? Oh, how
you could not be more wrong. Although I find Zac Efron to be one of the
hottest (if not the hottest) man on the planet, his perfect body and
alluring charm did not even captivate me enough to keep my eyes open.
From an equestrian's point of view, this movie was also terrible. The
fact that it's impossible for someone to become a steeplechaser in
several weeks makes the plot completely fallible (I've been riding for
7+ years and I am no where near ready, and I compete at 3'). Not to
mention the plot already was completely predictable. But whatever.
Apparently if you are a really hot, oppressed teenage boy whose parents
want you to be a "real" athlete and play baseball, you can get on a
horse (after falling more times than is really necessary, the horse was
already trained and it was rearing/bucking? Come on. A horse does not
need to gain "trust" necessarily for you to sit on its back), be
jumping cross rails in a week (over and over, might I add, which proved
absolutely nothing), and be steeple chasing in a few months. If you
don't know what steeple chasing is, it's basically a race, but you
jump. So a race with X amount of horses all jumping the same things at
the same time going speeds that regular racehorses are at. Pretty much
racing only 100x more dangerous. And it's definitely not Zac Efron
jumping, obviously, since none of the camera angles are of his whole
body during the entire race scene. Oh, and guess who wins?
<|_=00=_|>
OK, lets get the obvious out of the way, Zack Efron is in this movie.
That said, there's really not much positive to say about this boy
coming of age film. The acting is OK, the camera work is OK, the
continuity leaves a lot to be desired as previously mentioned, the
story is painfully predicable (spoiler alert, watch the opening menu
long enough and you know he races)...

Probably the most disappointing thing about the film is it's lack of
justice. A good sense of justice and good prevailing completely is
essential in a family movie. That does not happen in this film. The two
"bad guys" (Michael Nardelli and Colton James) really tear it up and
should have been arrested following the race (lets add a little drama),
but we don't even see Nardelli when he loses, so there isn't even a
chance to rub it in a bit. It's unfortunate, but I can't recommend this
movie....unless you absolutely must see Zac Efron.
<|_=00=_|>
Cute fifteen-year-old Zac Efron (as Patrick McCardle) doesn't have
friends his own age. He skips baseball practice to spend time with
boozing horse enthusiast mentor Bill Cobbs (as Houston Jones). In
flashbacks, Mr. Cobbs recounts his love for a wealthy white woman, and
a passion for horses; his doomed romance led Cobbs to alcoholism.
Parents William R. Moses and Tonja Walker (as Jim and Linda) don't like
Mr. Efron's close relationship with the older man; especially, Mr.
Moses wants his son to play baseball like his dad. Efron doesn't know
much, but "I know horses like me." He decides to join the horse races,
with Cobbs as trainer.

Be advised, there is heartbreak ahead for Efron! 

Efron is less affected (and made-up) than in "High School Musical"
performances, which is a plus. He passes for a mature fifteen, but
doesn't show much prowess as an actor. The prerequisite bully and
pretty girl roles are adequately filled by coolly-coiffed Michael
Nardelli (as Randy Adams) and lightly-tressed Crystal Hunt (as Jill
Overton). Cobbs adroitly makes the most of his predictable character
role. And, ailing musician Billy Preston has one of his last gigs. "The
Derby Stallion" gallops with missteps and continuity problems,
obviously enhanced by budget restrictions. Filmmakers found a great
semi-circular tree for a background shot.

*** The Derby Stallion (7/4/05) Craig Clyde ~ Zac Efron, Bill Cobbs,
Crystal Hunt, William R. Moses
<|_=00=_|>
A disillusioned old horse trainer befriends a teenage boy struggling to
form his own identity. The old man has trouble with alcohol; the boy
with bullies. His father is pushing his love--baseball--on the boy, who
does not have interest.

I was struck by the beauty of the authentic filming location and the
realistic ambiance that pervades the scenes, particularly through the
sounds of nature. Heartwarming musical scores complete the effect of a
"feel good" movie experience, which is the type I prefer. The closing
credits roll as Billy Preston sings "Winner," wrapping up another
good-triumphs-over-evil movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I had avoided The Derby Stallion ever since it came out, because I was
so much more concerned with other movies (of course), and I really
never took the time to even care about seeing it. One day it was about
time to leave the movie rental place, so I just grabbed it
thoughtlessly because I didn't see anything else that was worth the
renting at the time, and ran on to check out. 

I'm glad I finally got around to it, because this movie was a nice
little film and I really enjoyed it. Of course there were things wrong
with it, but the movie entertained me so much and the characters and
plot were considerably likable. Although I'm not much of a horse movie
lover, this movie sparked an immediate interest in me when it came on.
Maybe it was because Zac Efron's in it, or maybe it just has that click
from the start, either way, I was intrigued, haha. I thought it was
around overly decent, and of course I knew when I finished it I
wouldn't be saying, "Oh my god, this movie was perfect, it's the best
movie I've ever seen!" but I tell you one thing I did not say, and
that's "This movie was horrible, it's the worst movie ever". 

The Derby Stallion is really just a fun film that is worth the watch if
you have the time, and aside from minor problems, like the way they
filmed it and some people not being able to act out parts very well,
this was an unexpected surprise. Sure, it's not great, and even though
it shouldn't be at the top of your list, if you are interested, see it,
for it was enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
I was on the set - even an extra - no I did not get paid - but the
story is good and the actors are great. It's a movie folks. All the
people behind the scenes worked hard, as well as all of the actors. And
yes, Rusty is Rusty in all of the scenes. Contact Zion Farms if you do
not believe me. And yes, the actors rode the horses as well. I heard
that the main actors cowboy'ed the horses better than those of us who
never rode horses before. It's a feel good movie - don't dissect it.
Enjoy it. Three Billy's - how can you go wrong - sorry that Billy
Preston could only be there for a short bit - but he wasn't feeling
well.
<|_=00=_|>
i love this film so much it has a great story line and the actors are
amazing.it helped that the film had Zack Efron in because he is a
talented actor who recently the lead in high school musical i gave this
film 10/10 because it was amazing and i dint want 2 blink because i did
not want 2 miss a second of it i also thought that the film was heart
warming and it made me see a whole new side of Zack's acting skills i
no that i cant wait to see him in his new film hairspray because if it
is as good as this it will be at the top of the charts the only
downside to this film is that Crystal Hunt who plays Jill Overton got 2
kiss Zack i was so Jealous if only i lived in America i would of
auditioned for that part but i live in england for now
