
How To Lose Friends And Alienate People looked like it might be
different to the average rom-com we get these days, it looked like it
was going to be a smart and satirical look at mainstream Hollywood. It
isn't and it wasn't. It's in exactly the same vein as Run Fat Boy Run.
I'm not saying that it's a bad film because it isn't and neither is Run
Fat Boy Run, but I just felt like I'd seen it all before.

The start was rushed and lacked that flowing feeling. The middle was
the best part, with a couple of laugh out loud moments. The end was a
walking cliché which came straight from the school of Cameron Crowe
(once again not always a bad thing).

Simon Pegg stuck to his normal schtick when he's without Mr. Wright and
Mr.Frost, playing the lovable but overall clumsy fish out of water
Brit. Jeff Bridges was and still is The Dude so he can do no wrong.
Kirsten Dunst stuck to her guns and Megan Fox was thrown in as the so
hot at the moment crumpet.

An entertaining film. Not bad. Not great either.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised to find that How to Lose Friends and
Alienate People was nowhere near as 'gross-out' a comedy as the trailer
had led me to expect. I rapidly became absorbed in the unfolding of the
narrative and remained engrossed throughout. Pacing of the more visual
humorous content was, I thought, spot on. (I mean I got the impression
I was witnessing Pegg's attempts at restoring lost control very much
'in real time', so to speak.) At other moments there was time allowed
to share the main protagonists' (i.e. Pegg's and Dunst's) reflection on
how events were affecting them and what had led them to where they now
found themselves. All the characters were well cast, to some extent
interesting in and of themselves, and generally quite likable. (Any
apparent ruthless ambition displayed tended to be tempered by a
corresponding good natured resilience.) An entertaining, intelligently
scripted, brilliantly directed and superbly acted film that I would
thoroughly recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh dear we don't like it when our super-hero love interest develops a
brain do we?

Something has happened to people, they have lost the ability to enjoy,
a simple feel-good, love story/comedy? Kirsten Dunst is a revelation -
funny, sexy and real. I laughed out loud ooh at least five times and
I'm not ashamed to say had a tear in my eye a couple of times too. The
cast, acting and script is great, I watch a lot of films right across
the board and I haven't seen one in this genre that has been as
successful. Those who disagree please tell me where I can find some!
I'm sure the book is good too but I think you have to judge it on its
own merits.
<|_=00=_|>
Sidney Young (Pegg) moves from England to New York to work for the
popular magazine Sharpe's in a hope to live his dream lifestyle but
struggles to make a lasting impression.

Based on Toby Young's book about survival in American business, this
comedy drama received mixed views from critiques. Labelled as
inconsistently funny but with charm by the actors, how to lose friends
seemed as a run of the mill fish out of the pond make fun at another
culture comedy, but it isn't.

This 2008 picture works on account of its actors and the simple yet
sharp story. We start off in the past, then in the present and are
working our way forwards to see how Young made his mark at one of
America's top magazines.

Pegg (Hot Fuzz) is too likable for words. Whether it's hitting zombies
with a cricket bat or showing his sidekick the nature of the law the
English actor brings a charm and light heartedness to every scene.
Here, when the scripting is good but far from his own standards, he
brings a great deal of energy to the picture and he alone is worth
watching for. His antics with "Babe 3" are unforgivable, simply
breathtaking stuff as is his over exuberant dancing, but he pulls it
off splendidly.

Bridges and Anderson do well at portraying the stereotypical magazine
bosses where Dunst fits in nicely to the confused love interest. Megan
Fox, who stole Transformers, reminds everyone she can act here with a
funny hyperbole of a stereotype film star. The fact that her character
Sophie Myles is starring in a picture about Mother Teresa is as
laughable as her character's antics in the pool. To emphasize the point
there is a dog, and Pegg rounds that off in true Brit style comedy,
with a great little twist.

Though a British film there is an adaptation of American lifestyle for
Young as he tries to fit in and we can see the different approaches to
story telling. Young wants the down right dirty contrasted with the
American professionalism. The inclusion of modern day tabloid stars
will soon make this film dated but the concept of exploitation of film
star's gives this edge.

Weide's first picture is not perfect. There are lapses in concentration
as the plot becomes too soapy with an awkward obvious twist and there
are too many characters to be necessary. The physical comedy can also
be overdone. As a side note, the bloopers on the DVD are some of the
finest you will ever see, which are almost half an hour long.

This comedy drama has Simon Pegg on shining form again and with the
collective approach to story telling and sharp comedy, it is worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Straughan's adaptation of 'How to Lose Friends & Alienate People' is a
charming and funny albeit familiar film. Yes, the story itself isn't
anything new to the screen. The film also had potential of being an
engaging satire but it remains rather a feel good romantic comedy. I
liked the mixture of American and British humour. It is a well executed
film that is rushed in the beginning and clichéd in the end. I enjoyed
the mid-sections the most. Pegg, yet again, dominates the movie with
his comic power. He's simply hysterical even though he isn't very
different from his other films. Jeff Bridges is fantastic. A smoking
Gillian Anderson is cast against type as the neurotic, stuck-up and
arrogant publicist. Kirsten Dunst looks quite cute here and delivers a
charming performance. Megan Fox pretty much plays herself. 'How to Lose
Friends & Alienate People' has got some hilarious dialogues brilliantly
delivered by the actors. It is the comedic sequences that stand out
while the romantic scenes and the more dramatic ones feel rather
deja-vu. Pegg proves that he can carry a film on his own and 'How to
Lose Friends & Alienate People' remains, at the least, highly
entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing performance from Simon Pegg who just gets better and better
with every role. As usual he plays the part of a very cringy character
who makes you want to hide behind your cushion in embarrassment for him
sometimes, but thats what Pegg is all about.

The laughs were regular and eye watering and everyone of them aimed at
Penn. The movie was very cleverly put together where every character
plays a very sophisticated and serious part with Penn being the only
humour involved which is a huge credit to the Director Robert Weide.

And I cant let this one go without a quick round of applause to Gilliam
Anderson who shone throughout. Highly recommended to all.
<|_=00=_|>
I had fun watching this movie, mainly due to Simon Pegg, who has
quickly become a solid box office draw for comedy films.

He is hired from his dead end London publishing job by big shot NYC
media mogul Jeff Bridges, as a writer, for one of his celebrity rags.

After paying his dues, he makes it into the higher echelons of
celebrity writing hackdom (the "seventh room"), where he gets to be a
minor celebrity himself. The storyline is very funny, and Gillian
Anderson puts in an impressive supporting role as a cutthroat publicity
agent.

Along the way to success, he finds the true meaning of love, etc.

The formulaic plot aside, the movie was very funny, mainly due to Simon
Pegg, Jeff Bridges, and Gillian Anderson. Kirsten Dunst was good as the
love interest. The rest of the supporting cast did its job well.

This was a good comedy & well worth checking out at the theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
Sidney Young runs a small alternative culture magazine in London
dedicated to popping the bubble of celebrity. He hits the big time when
he gets a call from Clayton Harding, the editor of Sharps magazine  a
glossy celebrity magazine based in New York City. Sidney goes into the
job thinking he can be different from the puff pieces the magazine is
famous for and somehow has been employed as part of Harding's darker
streak and longer for more. Sadly this instinct is dead wrong and
Sidney finds himself a joke within the office and a failure within the
world of celebrity and movie stars that he needs to work.

HTLF&AP (it's easier) is in the mould of The Devil Wears Prada as it is
written as an insider's exposé of celebrity culture from someone who
discovered it firsthand. Like that film, this one also struggles to
tell this tale within a narrative structure that engages. It is helped
though by having the central character be a major part of his own
discovery, ie not only do we see the world of superficiality that is
the celebrity scene but Sidney is more than a pair of eyes as he fails
so impressively to assimilate himself into it. The problem is though
that it is not savage enough on the celebrity culture and instead tries
to draw a lot more humour from Sidney's various pratfalls and failures.
This produces some moments of amusement but at the same time it robs
the material of the teeth it really should have had. What is left is a
reasonably funny comedy that goes where you expect it to, right down to
the pat ending that was always going to be there.

Pegg has enough about his performance to be funny even though this is
far below the films he has made with Wright. He makes it work better
than it should at times but then he cannot bring out an edge that isn't
there in the script. The starry supporting cast may be part of the
reason that it doesn't tear at the hand that feeds it and indeed there
are some solid turns here. Bridges, Anderson, Fox, Huston and others
all do reasonably good work around Pegg. Dunst is at her best when in
the "hate" part of her "love/hate" relationship with Pegg and I liked
her until the film gradually started to use her character to turn the
way we all knew it would go.

Not a brilliant film by any means then but still one that is amusing as
it treads familiar paths to a weak ending. Should have been better but
is still just about good enough to distract as a comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Pegg has had a few hits in the past few years, starting with "Shaun Of
The Dead" in 2004, movie on to "Hot Fuzz 2007", early 2008 he came out
with "Run Fat Boy Run" and now comes this, "How To Lose Friends And
Alienate People" which is in many ways one of my favourite comedy's of
the year.

The film is about Sidney Yound, a man who writes a failing magazine who
makes fun of celebrity's mostly because he is not one of them. Anyway,
one of the most successful magazine owners (Played By Jeff Bridges)
invites him (Out of nostalgia) to work at his magazine. Sidney is of
course excited and moves to America, there he meets a girl currently
writing a book, and hilarity ensues.

This film is great and I hope more come out like it in the near future.
Pegg has once again given people everywhere another good film and I
cant wait to the see the third part of the blood and ice cream trilogy
"Paul". I Rate this film 81%.
<|_=00=_|>
Well here comes another,well,romantic comedy...but unlike all others
movies of this genre,this is by far the best I have seen in a long
while..

I'll admit,at first I wanted to watch this movie because of Megan
Fox,and a little because of Simon Pegg...

First of all,if you have watched a decent amount of movies,you will
know that Sidney and Alison would be together at the and of the
movie,one way or another...but from the beginning to the end of the
movie you won't know how...

Okay,now this movie is just made for Simon Pegg.I can't see any other
actor in the role of Sidney,and I'm sure this would be a very weaker
movie if not for Pegg's great performance.

There is a number of great gags and jokes in this movie that kept me
laughing really hard,courtesy of Simon Pegg's character Sidney...but I
think everyone in this movie is good.For example,Kirsten Dunst is
really solid in this movie( I usually don't think of her as any more
than an average actress,but she was really good in this one ),then
there's Jeff Bridges,there's Gillian Anderson,and of course Megan Fox
who plays spoiled bitchy star Sophie Maes...great role for her...

All in all,while I usually don't agree with ratings her on IMDb,this
time I would completely agree with them...

Go and see this movie,it is really light-hearted and positive,and I
recommend it deeply... My rating 7 out of 10...well 7.5 actually...
