
Perhaps this film has gotten mixed reviews because it breaks an
unwritten code about how far a movie can go in satirizing America's
myths. When before have we seen the President of the United States on
happy pills and robotic-ally pro- gram-med by his Rovelike handlers ?
Who would suggest that an Al-Quaeda training camp could be funny and
that someone in it has up scale all-American relatives in Orange
County, California ? Could our love affair with American Idol be an
escape from the collapsing American middle class way of life ?

This film IS often funny but it doesn't want that humor to stay in a
feel good zone. It WANTS to make us uncomfortable and to face things
that we don't want to look at too closely. The "sin" that this film has
committed is that it wants us to grow up.
<|_=00=_|>
"American Dreamz" is first and foremost a satire on pop culture
America. This movie is based around the television series American
Dreamz which is the highest grossing show not only in America but
around the world as well. The show is hosted by Martin Tweed, (Hugh
Grant) a heartless man who is just doing the show for his own selfish
reasons. American Dreamz is about to start its new season and as they
go through the casting process they pick a southern girl named Sally
Kendoo (Mandy Moore), an Arab named Omer (Sam Golzari) and many others.
But that's not all the movie focuses on, it also focuses on President
Staton (Dennis Quaid) who has just gotten reelected but is finally
beginning to wonder what's going on in this world he is supposedly
running. As the president begins to question his role, Vice President
Sutter (Willem Dafoe) signs President Staton up to appear on the season
finale of American Dreamz so he can redeem his image to the American
Public. Bold and funny moments ensueÂ…

"American Dreamz" is a very ballsy and brave movie. At times it is so
hard to realize you're watching a movie that was made by the big
Hollywood studios because this film mocks everything about their
culture and thinking. I think this film will be appreciated by very few
because people will not be able to look at this film for what it is, a
satire. The movie mocks so much about our current country from the
television show American Idol to George Bush and Dick Cheney. I feel so
few will be able to understand that this film isn't to be taken
seriously, since it mocks issues that are happening in real life. 

What I liked best about "American Dreamz" was that it mocked everything
and everyone. From rich America to white trash America no one was safe.
The movie mocks the United States as well as Iraq. It mocks fashion,
music, television and so forth. It's a brave movie for being able to
mock all these things because I can see so many people getting ticked
off by the film. 

But forget about everyone else for a moment, this review is based on my
thoughts and I found the film to be incredible. It is one of the best
movies I have seen so far this year. The film provides a lot of laughs
and never drags on. The movie wants its audience to be able to laugh at
themselves, something that Americans tend not to be able to do so well.
It's a brave and comedic satire that pulls all the right punches and is
based around a show that is truly something that everyone in the world
is aware of. 

Hugh Grant is terrific as Martin Tweed, the foul-mouthed, uncaring,
fame seeker who doesn't care about anyone but himself. He pretty much
mocks Simon Cowell from the show "American Idol" and I think he does
this well. Mandy Moore is terrific as well and I think after a few more
roles like this and "Saved!" she will start being recognized in
Hollywood. Her character Sally Kendoo is pretty much a female version
of Martin Tweed. She is uncaring, she wants fame, and she doesn't seem
to care about anyone but herself. Not to mention she is a perfect
mockery of such pop icons like Britney Spears and Carrie Underwood.
Dennis Quaid does a great job impersonating President Bush and actually
makes a more likable President in my opinion then the real George Bush.
Also Willem Dafoe is the perfect mockery of Dick Cheney. I think his
performance here is so dead on that he should receive some kind of
nomination for his portrayal. But the real star of the movie is Omer
played by Sam Golzari. He absolutely steals the movie from everyone
else. He is the most likable and sweet character. At first you laugh at
him but as the film goes on you begin to really love his character and
feel for him. 

Paul Weitz is the director, writer and producer of "American Dreamz."
Weitz is one talented guy who takes so many actors and makes them into
something great. "About a Boy," "In Good Company," and his short lived
but brilliant television series "Cracking Up" all prove that he is a
talented guy who can create original and clever work and "American
Dreamz" is no different. But not only is he a great director but a
great writer as well. His screenplay is great and mocks cultures with
dead on examples, not to mention his non-typical Hollywood ending which
I applaud him for leaving in. I read audience reactions from the test
screenings about the ending were pretty negative but I am glad he kept
it because I feel it's a great ending. 

Bottom Line, "American Dreamz" is for audiences who can laugh at
themselves and the culture they are apart of. This is a film that
people will either love or hate and there will only be a few in
between. It's not a movie for those who are easily offended or see the
world as something that shouldn't be made fun of. It's a satire in its
finest form. You have a terrific cast all of whom are solid at their
roles, the script is brilliant and brave, and the directing is
wonderful. This movie even makes you think when you laugh. You can't
ask for a better comedy movie to come out of Hollywood, this is the
finest satire to be released from a major studio in years. If you have
a decent sense of humor and can laugh at yourself every once in a
while, check out "American Dreamz" because it really is a dream with a
Z. 

MovieManMenzel's final rating for "American Dreamz" is a 9/10. It's the
best satire to come out of Hollywood in years.
<|_=00=_|>
"American Dreamz" is not the funniest or cleverest film ever made, but
it isn't as bad as a lot of the other reviewers are saying. To be sure,
it will offend anyone who is a fan of American Idol, President Bush, or
Al Qaeda.

The jokes are cute but will not leave you rolling in the aisles. There
are really good performances throughout, especially by Willem Dafoe.
who I had never really seen in a comedic performance.

This film could have been more mean spirited, but they actually went
out of their way to make all the characters empathetic. My favorite
part is when the terrorist are looking forward to eating grapefruit
sorbet.

It's a shame this film was not more popular in the theaters, because it
has a lot going for it despite it's faults. Hopefully it will be more
popular on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this at an advance screening and was astounded. Based on the
previews, I had concerns like many of the people posting in the forum
here: that it would be stupid, flat, bland "American sucks because..."
formulaic drivel with a little bit of Arab stereotyping thrown in for
good measure. I went into the film expecting to hate it. From the first
line through, I was converted. The film offers a very interesting take
on what the problems are in modern America, but it is not entirely
negative: it also has a lot of good things to say about what makes
America work. It creates a perfect blend of political satire, social
commentary, and intelligent, dark humor. All of this, is, of course,
peppered with the sparkling wit that we have come to expect from
writer/director/producer Weitz, whose past credits range from the crass
American Pie to About a Boy. There have been lots of people expressing
fears over Arab stereotyping, and I would be lying if I said that
terrorism doesn't play a large role, but I don't think I'm spoiling
anything here (it was in the previews). The film looks at America as
seen by a young Iraqi man, Omer (Sam Golzari, who does a brilliant job
of showing his constant turmoil as he struggles to reconcile the
America that he sees and that which he was taught about), who comes to
the States after spending his life being indoctrinated by a terrorist
organization. Through his eyes, we see all the good and all the bad
that this country has to offer. As a result, every single person, with
the exception of Omer, is a caricature. The Arab terrorists seem like
stereotypes because individual characters have been reduced to the
essentials that are necessary for the satire to work. The terrorists
are made more terrorist-y to create the separation from reality that
satire requires. By the same token, the heartless Hollywood producer,
the white-trash family, the loyal boyfriend, the opulent L.A. family,
the idiot president and manipulative chief of staff, etc. are all
caricatures of the people who they are standing for. The film does not
engage in Arab stereotyping because it is racist drivel, but engages in
caricaturing Arab terrorists (without implying that all Arabs are
terrorists) because the genre calls for it. I don't know what else I
can say about this movie, except that it might not be for everyone. It
is NOT your usual Hollywood fare, so do not go to it expecting a few
laughs and two hours of diversion from your life. Rather, like the
satires of Swift, it will make you question everything about how you
view the world, and it will make you laugh so hard, you don't even know
it is doing this, until you leave the theater and everything looks just
a little bit different. This is one of the most intelligent, unique,
daring, and insightful films to have come out of Hollywood in a long
time. This is a film made for every single person who has asked why
Hollywood keeps putting out stupid, uninteresting films that trade out
heart and intelligence for breasts and explosions. At the same time,
this is a sublimely funny film that would appeal to an extremely wide
range of ages and backgrounds.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was reading the other people's opinion's on American Dreamz, I
wondered if they even realized it was a satire...? I surely hope that
all who watched it even knows what a satire is: It is when you mock
people and their doings/obsessions with the hope of improvement. In
this movie, the director (Paul Weitz) mocks everything from America's
obsession with TV-shows like Idols to George W. Bush and his delectable
office. This is surely a movie you would want to watch a couple of
times over - just to catch that dreary bit you most certainly missed
the first time.

I would give this movie a well deserved 8 out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
There's so much going on in "American Dreamz" that it's no wonder it
sometimes forgets to be funny. You'd lose focus, too, if you had to
execute parodies of reality TV, terrorism, the Bush administration, the
war in Iraq, western consumerism, and "American Idol," all in one film.
Fortunately, when the movie does remember to be funny, it's very, very
funny.

Martin Tweed (Hugh Grant) is the host and sole judge on "American
Dreamz," a hugely popular "Idol"-esque TV show about to begin a new
season. But Tweed, bored, barbaric and British, wants to shake things
up this year. He orders his staff to ensure that an Arab and a Jew are
among the competitors, and when the president of the United States says
he wants to appear as a guest judge for the finale, well, that should
be good for a laugh, too.

The president is Joseph Staton (Dennis Quaid), a recently re-elected
Bible-thumper who does whatever his chief of staff Sutter (Willem
Dafoe, in a Cheney/Rove bald cap) tells him. But Staton, experiencing
something of a mid-term mid-life crisis, has actually started reading
the newspapers and thinking for himself. In fact, he's so ensconced in
the world of current affairs and book-learning that he hasn't appeared
in public in several weeks, leading to rumors he's had a nervous
breakdown, and prompting Sutter's efforts to get him on "American
Dreamz." Meanwhile, the early front-runner in this year's "Dreamz" is
Sally Kendoo (Mandy Moore), a perky-as-punch Ohio blonde who can turn
on the charm in public as easily as she can turn on the connivery in
private. In that respect, she is the soulmate of Martin Tweed, and the
two find kinship in their duplicitous black-heartedness. This
distresses Sally's boyfriend William (Chris Klein), a semi-wounded Army
volunteer whom she's dating solely because it looks good on TV to have
a boyfriend who fought in Iraq.

But what about the Arab and Jew Martin requested? The Jew gets
shortchanged (as do a lot of the film's story elements), but the Arab
is front and center. He's Omer (Sam Golzari), a bumbling but sweet
former terrorist-in-training who was exiled by his Iraqi handlers to
live with his cousins in America. Omer was never cut out for terrorism
anyway; he prefers singing and dancing. Nonetheless, when his handlers
tell him to use his "Dreamz" appearance -- and the presence of the U.S.
president as a guest judge -- to further the cause, he has no choice
but to obey.

Yes, writer/director Paul Weitz has his hands full here, and "American
Dreamz" isn't as accomplished or smooth as his "American Pie," "About a
Boy" and "In Good Company." (It's better than his Chris Rock misfire
"Down to Earth," though.) While it's never boring, some scenes do feel
like they ought to be funnier, or at least end more succinctly.

It's also a shame to see so many great characters and subplots
underused. Omer's Americanized Iraqi cousins, led by the great Shohreh
Aghdashloo; John Cho and Judy Greer as Martin's assistants; "SNL's"
Seth Meyers as Sally's snaky agent; Jennifer Coolidge as her
opportunistic mother; Marcia Gay Harden as the First Lady -- any of
these roles could have been enhanced. There's a line between memorable
supporting characters who serve their purpose and then disappear, and
great supporting characters who make us feel like their scenes were
deleted. This film crosses that line.

But it's the most outrightly satirical thing Weitz has done, and he
demonstrates a real knack for it. The scenes mocking "American Idol"
are hilariously accurate, from the types of contestants (the black
diva, the prettified white boy, the wannabe rocker), to the drippy
songs they choose, to the audience's fanatic devotion.

Hugh Grant is never better than when he's onstage as Martin Tweed, a
perfectly unctuous TV airhead. He's not as charming in the offstage
scenes as we like our Hugh Grants to be, but what can you do? He's
working with Mandy Moore, for crying out loud.

Which brings me to an important point. The film is being marketed to
Mandy Moore's demographic, but that audience will not enjoy it. They
won't appreciate the multi-layered satire at work. The preview audience
I saw it with often didn't even realize the jokes WERE jokes, let alone
how funny they were. Besides, Moore's character is a scheming vixen,
not the sweetheart her fans are used to.

Curiously, the one truly sincere character in the whole thing is
President Staton, played with fiendish glee by Dennis Quaid. Staton may
be an uncharitable send-up of our real-life commander in chief, but at
least he's honest. You see in his arc (he's the only character who has
one) a hint of what has made Weitz's previous films so winning: that
layer of heart underneath the comedy that drives the whole thing home.

Grade: B- 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was soooo good and sooo funny, non-stop laughs and pitch
perfect performances from everyone. Mandy Moore, Dennis Quaid, Willem
Dafoe, Hugh Grant (he was like watching Simon Cowell up there). The
whole film worked from start to finish and had some of the biggest
laughs in years. The film is very much "of the moment" with its
mirroring American Idol, the President, and terrorism, but it hits
everything right on the head. Chris Klein, towards the end of the
movie, has one of the funniest lines I have heard in decades. The movie
also zooms by. I saw it at the festival in Cleveland, but if it was
during regular release, I would have sat and watched it again. Great
one!
<|_=00=_|>
American Dreamz is likely to be one of the overlooked and dismissed of
the most puzzling and mysterious movie productions of 2006. It is a
fascinating, confusing blend of comedy, drama yet and while not always
executed well, it actually evokes a bold and daring attempt at
movie-making. Both the lead characters played by Hugh Grant and Mandy
Moore are not our American picture perfect personalities that the
audience can like. It's actually Dennis Quaid's role as President that
actually forms the foundation of this movie as his character develops
and grows throughout.

Interestingly enough, this movie is a hard-hitting, serious drama of
the rough and hardened role of television competition as well as the
political machinations of government. This is a strange little drama
wrapped up in the vestments of a supposedly a comedy that actually
isn't. It's a dark comedy. The combination of comedy and drama, the
director's attempt to capture the difficult subject matter in a
tasteful manner that wouldn't alienate the entire audience wasn't
completely successful. Yet underlying all the chaos, at its core this
movie really did contain and present a rather nasty core of humanity,
of acknowledgement between peers, of movement forward. In other words,
this movie capture a little bit of real humanity and brought the
audience a little further into the connection between human beings.
Seven out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that I always wanted to see in theaters, but
unfortunately, it came & went rather quickly becoming a big box office
flop. But one thing that this film proves is, that the box office is no
measuring spoon for a great film. American Dreamz is perhaps the best
kept secret of the year. It's the perfect satire for the modern
condition of the world, and it's extremely entertaining to boot. This
film is simply a mirror into the human and world affairs of today. If
it seems a little ridiculous then maybe it should. The all-star cast,
written, produced, and directed by Paul Weitz (In Good Company, About A
Boy, and his notorious American Pie) is definitely his best, most
ambitious, and most clever film. From a show-tune loving Islamic
terrorist, to the very "Simon" like talent competition judge (portrayed
by Hugh Grant), American Dreamz is truly the Dr. Strangelove of our
time. It has the boldness and audacity to make powerful statements
through its use of sarcasm and satire. The direct assault on our modern
world couldn't have been as poignantly portrayed. Dennis Quaid's
Bush-like portrayal of the presidency, Mandy Moore's modern drama queen
that we've all come in contact with amidst the halls of our high
school, Willem DaFoe's direct likeness to Dick Cheney, the young war
hero wounded in the Iraq war, every element of this film is perfect for
today. I can only dream that America is smart enough to get the message
of American Dreamz.
<|_=00=_|>
It could've been good, it could've been funny, it could've been
poignant, it could've been merciless and harsh. However, American
DREAMZ is nothing like it. It's a "what if" idea that seems just like
an adapted treatment. I can imagine the brainstorming session: "What if
we made a satire on "American Idol", or "Pop Idol"?" - "Yeah, that'd be
a real blast!" - "Oh, oh, what if the candidates are a Orthodox Jew and
an Arabian terrorist sleeper!" - "Great, but we need some sex appeal,
how about a curvaceous white trash go-getter?" - "And for the host we
have Hugh as Simon Callow, he wants to play someone nasty." "Swell!"
That doesn't sound like a satire so far, just a spoof? True, but the
biggie woofer idea is: "What if we make the dumb President of the
United States a guest juror!" "Whoah! And he just found his conscience,
and - get this - READS newspapers! And his chief of staff is worried so
he tries to get the Prez back on track, where he was his puppet on a
string..." American DREAMZ is mildly funny, but it ain't no WAG THE
DOG, DR. STRANGELOVE, NETWORK or MASH. None of the characters gain any
depth and remain farcially shallow, none of the story lines evolve,
they just hit the next destined treatment milestones, whether the story
lead to it or not. This film doesn't annoy you, but you sit in your
seat, desperately wanting to laugh. And there is much potential for a
sharp, witty comedy. But almost none of it gets fired up fully. Plainly
a missed opportunity!
