
As a parent of two children, ages 6 and 8, my family sees a lot of
movies and has been highly anticipating G-Force after all the hype that
was placed on it. What a disappointment!! The funny parts that are
shown on the trailers are not funny in the movie. There's a couple of
scenes that might merit a chuckle; the use of the word "couple" is
pushing it. Even my kids said that they were very disappointed because
it was more of an action movie. Basically, all the decent parts were in
the trailers. I usually don't dislike a movie this much, but I disliked
this one enough to register here and make a comment about it since I
use the reviews a lot myself. I'm really feeling jipped right now over
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Who doesn't like guinea pigs? I wouldn't be surprised if Cavy sales
rise after the impression these CG 3-D specimens create in the PG
audience. Their mouths alone are cutely depicted and entertaining in
their own right. 

I had read a small unflattering local review and didn't want to waste
my time. My 8 yr. old Son, however, got his own idea from the trailers,
and wondered how a "review" could possibly say it was "no good" as I
had reported. So I took he and his 10 yr. old buddy to the matinée.

I'll admit there were a couple of wordy moments where the illusion was
broken for me, but on the whole, with the involving 3-D effects, there
were enough chuckles and action to leave me wondering why it was
trashed. I've seen much worse. I liked it better than Alvin & the
Chipmunks, and Up... but I think Monsters VS Aliens was more
re-watchable.

As we left the chilly theater to enter the hot afternoon, I asked the
boys what they thought. "It was awesome!" Well, not my exact thoughts
but it wasn't a bad distraction from more serious current affairs.
<|_=00=_|>
Our kids are grown, but being a 6th grade teacher, I talked my wife
into going and seeing this. In the first half hour there was no
laughter coming from the audience. The 3-D was OK, but I expected more
from Disney. You can tell it wasn't the Pixar people behind this film.

I really expected to laugh and enjoy the FX ride, but the action
sequences left me bored and I didn't fall in love with the characters.
It was cute and might be OK for a 7,8 or 9 year old. Anyone younger
won't understand the plot line and older kids will be bored. This film
sure wasn't worth the ticket price.

It was just a disappointment all the way around for me. Maybe
Bruckheimer will get it right next time.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand why this movie has a current rating of 4.7/10. I
loved it! True, some characters could have been given a meatier role.
But overall this is a good, sweet one with plenty of action and
excellent animation. Penélope Cruz sounds sexy (as usual), and Nicholas
Cage is unrecognizable as Speckles the mole (I didn't know it was him
until I saw the credits), but he's terrific. And though they appeared
for a total of a little over few minute, Bucky the hamster (who is a
quarter ferret) and the three mice were adorable.

I'll recommend this movie to anyone looking for a good laugh on a lazy
afternoon. And for the kids! 7* out of ten!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this film was great,i don't understand why it didn't get a
higher score.

The storyline was fast paced, the animation and effects superb and the
guinea pigs were generally funny.

I thought the cast really made the characters come alive,

I would definitely recommend this for families and children,

the people giving it a bad review are not those whom it was made for.
It is simply just a fun action film for kids, its's not trying to be a
tarentino masterpiece, Disney did a great job on making another great
flick for the family! The play-station game is great too!!
<|_=00=_|>
It is not all that bad, at least it tries its to be an enjoyable family
movie flick. But as usual, Disney movies now are getting haters around
the world due to its popular teens and live-action animals-talking
movies. So now, when they see a live-action Disney movie whether it has
teenagers singing or animals yapping away, they would be put off
immediately. Whatever it is, G-force is fun with 3-D. Kids would like
the cute animals coming near them.

The story: G-Force has a simple story which is also not creative. But
that it is not what kids want, they would want to see action blazing
through their ways. As this being a Jerry Bruckheimer production, you
can expect at least a car chase and some explosion but only more mild.
Trevor Rabin did a good work in creating epic music. Though a kid
movie, expect some rude humour but also at the same time, some lessons
to teach your kids.

Overall: Definitely not as bad as what haters say. In the end, it is
just meant to be an enjoyable fun romp. You don't like animals talking,
this is not for you. A good movie for the holiday. Just leave your
brain at home if you want to enjoy this.
<|_=00=_|>
G-Force, the family adventure by producer Jerry Bruckheimer (Pirates of
the Caribbean), isn't a bad movie by any count and works as a fun kids
movie. But a tired and formulaic plot means the movie is no
'must-watch' by any means and caters mostly to the little ones. The
story follows a specially trained team of secret agent guinea pigs that
work for the US government. Their mission is to stop an evil
billionaire (Bill Nighty) who manufactures home appliances from taking
over the world through a microchip he has planted in them.

To begin with the positives, the animation is top-notch. The guinea
pigs look very photo-realistic and after a few minutes you forget
they're CGI. There is an inherent cuteness factor to them, and just
like last year's Alvin and the Chipmunks, the filmmakers know that this
will be the biggest draw for kids and their parents. There are plenty
of jokes to keep a smile on your face (although the toilet humor gets
old after a while).

But that brings me to the story. How many times have you heard this:
"Evil genius wants to take over the world and only the unlikeliest of
heroes can save the world."? Too many to count, I imagine. And G-Force
fits right into that category. The plot is tired and doesn't attempt to
bring anything new to the table. There are subplots strangely similar
to last year's Bolt, and the finale has an uncanny resemblance to
Transformers. Aside from being predictable from the very start, the
biggest problem here comes out in the final reels  the villain's
motivations are laughably ridiculous. As if it wasn't hard enough to
stomach the improbability in an evil billionaire's plan to take over
the world by installing timed microchips in every home appliance he
manufactures, the final act tries to implement a twist so ridiculous
and far-fetched that one wonders what was going on in their mind when
coming up with it. Sure, kids will chew it up, but adults are sure to
gasp at the screen at the stupidity of it all. Still, lessons are
learned and there's a bit of emotional quotient towards the end that
makes partially saves it.

Another problem is the action scenes. There are too many of them, and
most of them are uninvolving. The movie opens with a 10 minute long
covert operation that gets tiring a quarter of the way through. And
every other ten minutes or so comes another chase or mission that only
serves as eye-candy and gets monotonous and unfocused, especially in
the finale. The special effects are great, but what's the need for
exploding cars and buildings in a kid's movie?

The voice acting is impressive. Sam Rockwell, Penelope Cruz, and
Nicolas Cage do a great job bringing their characters to life. Bill
Nighty plays a stock villain with no character development or
motivation, and it comes across badly. Zach Galifianakis impresses as
the leader of the team, but Will Arnett is wasted in a small and too
serious of a role for a comedian of his caliber.

So is G-Force recommended? Mostly if you have kids or are between 3-13
years old. It's not a bad movie by a stretch (it's much better than
last year's Beverly Hill Chihuahua) and you will not get bored in the
theaters, but it's a shame that the movie could have been so much more.
They had an interesting bunch of characters on screen, but
unfortunately they settled on making cookie-cutter Hollywood fare than
something truly unique.

Rating  2.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney has hit rock bottom with this one. There's so many flaws it's
hard to determine a good starting point.

First off, the characters are very unlikable. There's the typical
straight character, stereotypical black g-sta, mysterious foreigner who
is the object of aforementioned characters' desire, and jolly fat guy
who likes food. Yes that's right, this movie makes a jolly fat guy
unlikable, a feat I once thought impossible. Zack Galifianakis (Alan in
The Hangover) plays the agent who trains all the guinea pigs, although
not unlikable, was very boring. Although none of this was the actors'
fault, they had very little to work with. Which brings me to my next
point.

The script was terrible, every single joke that was written fell flat
on its face. There were references to well known movies like Apocalypse
Now, Scarface, and The Untouchables, but even those I couldn't find
funny because it was as if the writers didn't put them in because it
worked naturally, but rather set out to make references to the movies
and just inserted them into any place that sort of made sense. There
were also quite a few fart jokes in this movie, something that Disney
never should have stooped to.

The music selections were nothing but the latest Top 40 hits, and each
seemed to be used at least three times in the movie. Only once did I
find that a song made sense for the situation.

For me, the only redeeming qualities were that the animation was very
good, and Steve Buscemi's character, who I found mildly humorous. Also
that it was a lot shorter than most of the other movies I dislike.

I understand that I'm not part of the target audience but if you're
planning on taking your children to this movie, consider this, the kids
in the theater only laughed once through out the entire movie. I would
never see this movie again, it was truly a painful experience.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, technically it's brilliant. Obviously a lot of money and effort has
been thrown at the visuals, but unfortunately the plot and writing has
come a distant second to this. The story is just about adequate, but
the writing/dialogue is generally just dull dull dull.

There seems to be no intelligence or flair to it at all, leaving
children at best just entertained by cuddly animals talking, and at
worse adults wondering why they're having to endure such boredom.

I've seen a number of 'kids films' at the cinema and this has got to be
the only one I've watch feeling so un-entertained by. Quite simply
kids, and definitely parents, deserve better than this!
<|_=00=_|>
"G-Force" is basically a kid's movie, so it should be judged as such.
The story is about group of specially trained guinea pigs who were able
to uncover a diabolical plan for world domination by the leading home
appliance manufacturer. Not really a plot for an Oscar bait film, but
for kids, it works.

Being produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, the requisite slam-bang action
sequences are also there. And since the characters animated, the
possibilities for these sequences are limitless and only bound by the
imagination of the animators. The guinea pigs are drawn to be very cute
and lovable, and the audience is effectively drawn to root for them.

I personally enjoyed the voice talents. I liked Penelope Cruz' voicing
of the sassy girl guinea pig Juarez. Her delivery of her lines was sure
and sexy (for a guinea pig). Hehe. Nicholas Cage's voice work for
Speckles the genius mole is topnotch, and unrecognizable as him. For
the human characters, I was surprised at the credits that the G-Force
trainer Ben was actually Zach Galifianakis. He is definitely the polar
opposite here of his character in "The Hangover" where I first saw him.

Kids and the kids-at-heart will enjoy the cartoonish action of
"G-Force". Hey, it is animated after all. Although with the excellent
CG imagery of the animal characters are really so realistic. The kids
and I had a great time. We did not even remember that we did not watch
it in 3D. The action is very palpable even in regular 2D format.
