
This movie was very funny!!!! Why are people making such a big deal
about this movie being "racist and making fun of overweight people"?
People who think that need to lighten up and get a sense of humor! If
you wanna see this movie because the previews look funny, go and see
it. Don't listen to the other people because the movie is like 10 times
funnier than the previews! This is definitely one a Eddie Murphy's best
movies! I promise that you will think that this movie is funny. Yes, it
does have a few racist shots, but if you have a sense of humor you
won't mind. And yes, this movie is about an overweight woman, but once
again, LIGHTEN UP PEOPLE! Have a good time and laugh at yourself!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film on my birthday with my friend Paul. There were
low expectations from both of us and we came out pleasantly surprised.
We were laughing throughout the movie and it turned out to be a good
birthday for me.

The other two people in the cinema were not as impressed but there's no
accounting for taste.

I honestly cannot understand why this film has been critically mauled.
It doesn't pretend to be something it's not. It's a film aimed for
laughs and it does exactly what it delivers.

To fully appreciate and understand this film you need an enlightened
and intelligent sense of humour to comprehend the genius film that is
Norbit. People like Paul and I are just very rare.
<|_=00=_|>
This is NOT meant to be a serious movie. Those who created Norbit did
not set out to make a witty, comical masterpiece that made the viewers
think and contemplate...this is a comedy. No one seems to understand
it, be the long, winding and rather dull critical remarks on the movie
bringing 'a new meaning to distasteful' or something equally as
yawn-worthy, what needs to be realized is that this is riddled with
clich√©s and fun, comical satire. This is not meant to make one think,
it exists because it must have been entertaining to make and it is
funny. This is no Little Miss Sunshine, and it serves its purpose, I
spent one hour and forty-two minutes without a decent thought in my
head. Those humorless people who continue to bore us with their in
depth reasoning for 'why this movie isn't good' need to stop for a
second and look at the plot and concept...this is not meant to be taken
seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I don't no why this movie has received such low ratings! Okay, I
understand that there really is no point to the movie. No climax,
unforgettable conclusion, I understand. BUT IT WAS FUNNY! Lol, if you
ever want to see a movie just to LAUGH, then you have to see Norbit.
Eddie Murphy is Brilliant as usual and the characters he plays are
pricelesss. I sure did ecjoy watching this hysterical movie. I highly
recommend this movie to all ages! HAHHAHAHAHAHAHA, im laughing now
thats how funny this movie was. WOW. But anywhoo,like i said before, if
you want to watch a movie, not worry about anything else, then Norbit
is a must see. LOl, I loved it and believe me, you won't regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so funny, it is ridiculous. I nearly busted a gut
laughing. You people are oversensitive. Yeah, I know it shouldn't get a
10, but compared to any other comedy in the past few years it is right
up there. I think you are forgetting that comedies don't have to be
outstandingly clever in order to be funny. It isn't meant to be an epic
tale with deep metaphors and tons of symbolism, it is meant to be
funny, and it succeeds. Forget about mise en scene and just relax and
laugh your ass off.

This movie is so funny I can't remember a moment when I was not
laughing. Get over your differences and laugh about them. Don't be
ashamed to laugh just because someone is black or fat.

This is the funniest movies I have seen in a long time and I'm not
ashamed to say it.
<|_=00=_|>
First let me say ... I am an Eddie Murphy fan. I think he's a comic
genius. And that's why I was so surprised to see him star in and even
write such a low level and offensive comedy.

The first few minutes of the film started out with a little promise,
but it didn't take long for the film to fall to such a low level that I
cringed from early in until the movie was over. And even though I
watched to nearly the end, I demanded my money back. It's only the
second time I've ever done that, and I'm an avid film goer.

What was so offensive? I don't know where to begin. Most obviously,
every "fat" gag in the book was used. Eddie Murphy plays an overweight
woman who is ugly and evil, and every nasty thing you can think to say
about her is said. To make it worse, the leading lady is Thandie Newton
who is extremely thin, which only goes to further emphasize the other
extreme.

Maybe Eddie Murphy thought he could get away with this because he
shows, in The Nutty Professor, how an overweight man can "get the
girl". But, really, that just shows the extreme double standard that
remains when it comes to overweight men versus women.

Now, I'm a realist, and I know that the double standard is not Eddie
Murphy's fault. Still, he plays on it here in such a nasty way that it
offended me, an open minded, in-shape male. And for those who argue
that it's the character's attitude and not her weight that made her
"the bad guy", then why make her fat in the first place. And why have
so many nasty fat jokes.

The movie was offensive on other levels too. The racial humor wasn't
funny. There are some lines with attempts at humor that really go too
far. Many of you who have seen it will understand what I mean. And
those who haven't, I hope you don't support this film out of curiosity.
Please, wait for cable. There is nothing in this that you can't wait to
see.

I heard that it was Eddie Murphy's brother who came up with this idea.
If EM did this as a favor to his brother, he could have done his
brother, and himself a bigger favor by bringing Charlie in on a better
project and tossing this script.

On the one positive note: Eddie Murphy does put his all into these
characters as always. His job as Norbit gets lost in the low class, low
level "comedy". Even though I just saw the film, I had to really
remember that his performance as Norbit was decent. All I can think
about is how offended I was, and how thoroughly depressed an overweight
woman sitting at the end of my row looked throughout most of the film
(she left before I did).
<|_=00=_|>
Although it wasn't the absolute funniest movie I've ever seen, Norbit
turned out to be a fun filled movie with lots of big names appearing
throughout the flick.

The plot is rather obvious, but the characters in the movie create a
great comedy setting that can be enjoyed by all, regardless of race and
stereotyping. Eddie Murphy does a great job with his three big roles in
the movie and the majority of the film kept a smile on my face. It's
good to see that Murphy can still do movies that aren't made to adapt
to the humor of seven year old's.

If you're offended by sophomoric humor, you might not want to watch ANY
movie, let alone Norbit.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very underrated. The verbal insults thrown back & forth
by the characters and the subtle and not-so-subtle behavior is just
plain hilarious.

I've seen it twice, and both times I laughed very hard...as did the
other people watching the movie. I think there's a lot of folks that
find poking fun at obesity, nerdiness, and pimps as "offensive."
Generally those are people that are likely stuffy and rarely happy.
"Get a life!" is the best advice for those critics. Never does this
movie promise to do more than make you laugh, and it does that quite
well.

If you liked "The Longest Yard," "Anchorman," or "Dodgeball," then
you're likely to enjoy Norbit.
<|_=00=_|>
All the people that thought that this movie was crude, distasteful and
horrid, You have no sense of humor whatsoever. I could not stop
laughing throughout this movie. Norbit is a great comedy and it shows
what a versatile actor Eddie Murphy is. I don't know why people think
this movie is " Crude" or "Racist" . This is just reality. This is
really how the media and the people in this world view these types of
people. If it was racist against African Americans, I don't think am
African American actor ( Eddie Murphy) and all the others would have
agreed to make this movie. All you haters need to rethink your idea of
comedy because this is comedic genius.
<|_=00=_|>
Eddie Murphy has put out the best movie of 2007(as of yet anyways). was
a bit leery of going to see Norbit, but glad i did now. While seeing
trailers in the theater i envisioned another meet the Klumps but Eddie
solidified this movie by casting some great supporting roles, ala terry
crew(longest yard, click) Cuba Gooding Jr(for once not playing a sweet
and innocent character), Kat Williams, Eddie Griffen(undercover
brother). Im sure I'm forgetting some but these supporting roles help
solidify Norbit. Norbit not only has a good cast of black actors, but
the story line is Definitely Original and funny. Norbit had me laughing
so loud that i actually missed some lines in the movie. Eddie's
character Mr.Wong steals the show, just wish there was a little more
from Charlie Murphy. Don't know many actors that can pull off multiple
characters in one movie, that is definitely Eddies talent.
