
I know, I know, that score makes you want to hate on me already. First,
let me say that I have read the book and really enjoyed it. It was
thought provoking, emotionally engaging, and intelligent. Second, while
I enjoyed the book, I am not passionate about it like some people are.
So I went into the movie with a completely open mind, just wanting to
experience the movie. 

First, the positives. Jeff Bridges and Meryl Streep are fantastic as
expected. Both bring wonderful layers to their character. Also, the use
of going from black and white to color was used real well to
demonstrate what the characters see. The film looks good and is acted
well.

Now my complaints. First of all, the setup of the supporting characters
felt off to me. The society they live in have a certain set of rules
that everyone follows because they were taught to their whole lives.
But all the characters broke the rules multiple times in the beginning
of the film. That takes you out of the overall feeling the movie is
supposed to give you, the message it has to offer.

Next, while the book got you emotionally attached to Jonas and what is
happening to him, the movie falls flat. Their are certain moments that
have to have the audience fully involved emotionally, but just don't.
That is a big negative unfortunately, because you want to care, but the
film is too lazy setting you up for the emotional blow.

Finally, the pacing is way off. The middle part with Jonas coming to
the realization of what is really going on, is rushed and he makes up
his mind like that. That is the most important part of the movie, and
sadly it is rushed. Then the movie slows down, and that leads to a VERY
anti-climactic ending.

Overall, if you are a die hard fan of the book, then obviously you
should see it. Who knows, I may be the only one who doesn't drink the
coolade for this movie. But the tone and storytelling are to sloppy and
the movie fails to get you emotionally attached. So the result is a
mediocre film for me. I still recommend you see for yourself, but just
ask yourself: Did I love the movie or did I want to love the movie
because of the book?
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen reviews comparing the Giver (unfavorably) to other teen
dystopian movies like Divergent and Hunger Games. That's actually a
compliment, the Giver is not more of the same stuff, The critics
seemingly can't accept that people are smart enough to get the point of
Lois Lowry's book, and that people aren't smart enough to enjoy, much
less understand, a character study and a societal study. Mindless
action, needless violence, and transforming robots are all absent here.
I have a feeling though, that people are smarter than they think. The
book has been popular for at least 30 years, why would people balk at
the movie adaptation? The Giver is a project that has been in the back
of every movie maker's mind for years, now it's here. Go see it and
judge for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone is judging this movie based on its accuracy to the book, which
is understandable. I re-read the book 2 days ago, so it would be fresh
in my head before viewing the movie for the first time. I absolutely
love the book, and I had heard varying opinions about the movie (mostly
negative), but I wanted to watch it with an open mind and present my
own opinion. I must say: this movie is simply amazing. Firstly, the
acting is top-notch: Meryl Streep and Jeff Bridges were perfect of
course, but Brenton Thwaites and Odeya Rush also brought depth to their
characters. I loved seeing Taylor Swift make an appearance in the film,
and she gave life to a character who was only mentioned in the book.
Katie Holmes and Alexander Skarsgård showed flawless acting in their
supporting roles as well. The movie excelled in more than just its
acting. There were so many powerful "chilling" moments, particularly
with the portrayal of the memories. The contrast of the sensory-rich
memories of the past with the colorless and boring Utopian community is
what brought real depth to the film. My favorite aspect was the slow
transition from black-and-white to vivid colors. My only true complaint
about the movie is that it was too short. I didn't want it to end. As
far as staying true to the book, there were minor changes, such as the
ages of the characters and the career assignments, but these made
sense. People must understand that when a book is adapted on screen,
there are certain things that must change for viewing continuity
purposes. I will say that, as always, the characterization was better
in the book, and I was able to form a connection with the characters
quicker with a written description. The movie jumped right into the
plot, which was good for the pacing of the story, but this meant it
took longer to really understand the characters. Having already read
the book, this was not a problem for me. The overall themes and
concepts (such as sameness, colors, emotion, and love), were portrayed
ingeniously throughout the movie. As much as I love the amazing use of
imagery in the book, being able to actually visualize the transition
from a dull community to a vivid, colorful world was breathtaking.
Also, without giving spoilers, the movie gives explanations to concepts
in the book, especially with the "memory boundary" that separates the
society from Elsewhere. The movie doesn't stray from the book, it just
provides more clarity. Finally, I loved the ending of the movie. It
gives more closure, and was even more satisfying than the book was. My
overall conclusion is that this movie serves as an excellent
counterpart to the book. The detailed characterization of the book and
the sensory stimulating scenes in the film complement each other nicely
to make one cohesive, stunning, and powerful story.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Giver" from the movies is certainly different from the original
text, yet one can't be disappointed because it remains faithful to many
of its elements. Looking at the incredible work done by the designers,
one has to admit that this is a fairly accurate representation of what
a sterile, safe, and totalitarian society probably would like in the
future. The general population follows the rules automatically, with
minor exceptions, and the illustrious leaders make sure their presence
is respected and understood. People appear to be content.

As usual, some people might wonder how some very substantial parts of
the novel are dealt with in a very rushed manner when so much care was
given to bringing the book to life, and this includes acting by most of
the seasoned actors. Streep should be proud that her elder role can
join her best work, and Bridges was born to play the unhappy title
character.

A much older Jonas is now the official receiver of memories in this
society, and he's the hope that can restore stability to this utopia.
It looks like the previous candidate wasn't able to handle the demands
of the assignment. This is a crucial role in the book and relegated to
a few minutes here, and mercifully so because it's played by a
non-actor and couldn't probably hurt the movie.

The Giver and Jonas meet to perform their expected duties. Here is
where one can see that the Giver has specific plans. Somehow the lead
Elder suspects this but allows the plan to go on. There's a tacit
understanding of what is needed in the society, and in a parallel way,
the Elder and the Giver have parted ways, though it looks like they
were either very close or related in the past.

Whereas the book allows you to meditate about what's happening to Jonas
and his transition into "adulthood" is more traumatic because of what
he discovers through the Giver's intervention, here the older Jonas
still suffers through the sudden trauma of being exposed to the dark
periods of man's history, it doesn't quite hit us with the pain of a 12
year old that suddenly has his beliefs shattered when he discovers the
truth behind his perfect world and family.

There are remarkable improvements as the world is graphically depicted
so we can see how technology serves many purposes, among them the
comfort, safety and protection of its inhabitants. However, it is very
clear that the reins are tight, and this requires a special forces that
spies on every aspect of its people. It's chilling to see when files
are pulled how there's absolutely no privacy for anyone here.

The casting is very good, giving us a coldly efficient Holmes, playing
an official of some kind who fears that her family and her world are
destroyed by chaos. Her husband is even more interesting because he's
the softer of the two, but what truly astounds us is how he's unable to
really bond with anything. He knows the expressions he's supposed to
use, but they're robotic deliveries, and this is horrific to see when
he deals with the problem of having to release one of the twins during
his daily job.

People might be either very pleased with the last scenes in the film
when we see Jonas try to escape from his world to save himself,
Gabriel, and eventually the rest of the world. The film makes perfectly
clear that he somehow achieves his goal, but just like the book, there
is a doubt that this is all wishful thinking or a dream because. Here
we are next to the idyllic dream of his, a place where love, family,
and warmth coexist peacefully, or don't they?
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, The Giver was a good, quality movie. It conveyed an important
message: we need the bad in order to appreciate the good. I definitely
plan on buying it when it comes out on DVD.

First, what I thought wasn't great about the movie: I thought the first
little bit of the movie was rushed, as well as another segment later
on. I also don't feel that time was conveyed wellalmost a year passes
from the beginning of the movie to the end, but the movie portrays it
as just a few days. As a result of the time warp, we don't properly
understand how love develops between the characters. We also don't see
enough of Fiona's and Asher's developmentthey play key parts towards
the end, but their actions seem out of the blue.

Now, the good of the movie: Above all, this movie conveys what I think
is a very important message about needing pain with joy. I also
appreciated that they touched on the differences between simply "a
family unit" and having a real family. The emphasis on love as
overarching was also good and appropriate. I appreciated that the movie
doesn't show details of the painful memories but still is able to
convey a little of the sorrow from them.

Again, I think this is a great movie overall. And I left the theater
wondering, "Will we remember? Will we remember that love is worth the
price of sorrow?" I certainly hope we never forget.
<|_=00=_|>
I am the kind of guy who likes a movie with morals, art, music and
emotion. This is that kind of movie and it was a pleasant watch. 

Character & Development: The movie develops the characters well in my
opinion. I like how the main character is not some celebrity hot shot
that we are forced to love based on how they are in real life. Slow to
start and nothing is rushed. Of course, it does not follow every detail
from the book, but it draws the principles and ideals of it.

Art: the style is done very well. Plain and simplistic as most
dystopian societies are portrayed. As the movie prolongs, the art in
the movie expands more beautifully. Watch the movie if you want to
understand what I meant by that. 

Music: I enjoyed the music of this movie. Gave me chills since I love
movies with great background music. Tingles everywhere.
<|_=00=_|>
The most obvious and cynical theory to come up with the existence of
The Giver movie is the success of futuristic YA movies such as The
Hunger Games and Divergent. Though, The Giver was never meant to be a
YA book in the first place, and it's already a two decades old book
that has been going through some controversies in the past. This movie
is proof that Hollywood is just picking books randomly and turn them
into movies to match the trend. The important question is does it stay
true to what makes the story so great? Apparently not. Not because it's
now starred with teenagers instead of twelve year olds, or it consists
more action scenes. The film just hardly cares about the concept and
gives more way to the corny clichés of the genre. The Giver does have a
taste for a blockbuster, but the heart of the story is missing and that
is definitely frustrating.

The film introduces the story in the most typical way possible, which
has the hero doing voice-over narration for the audience. It doesn't
trust the concept either, so it has to immediately push the story to
the familiar elements of the genre. This is not a new case, of course.
Many young-adult novels with better narrative have been manipulated by
formula. But the story itself isn't about a revolution or a love story,
its main center is to rediscover the old natural world, no matter how
beautiful and ugly it was, and contrast it to the new rigorous society
that is peaceful yet terrifyingly naive. The relationship of Jonas with
the Giver and unraveling through sociopolitical conspiracies is what
makes it engaging, but again the movie doesn't have the love for that.
Instead it uses its length more on the visuals where the director can
do what he does best, which is to pull off some set pieces and grand
designs. Unfortunately those parts don't do much to the story, it's
nothing more than an exposition that is meant build up a thrilling
climax that isn't and never meant to be thrilling at all. And to stay
faithful to the source material's larger theme, during the chase at the
last act, one of the characters ends up preaching out a sheer
sentimental speech to the elders that feels terribly forced.

How it created the communities looked cool though, with production and
special effects that gives a spectacular sense of scale, and how the
black-and-white world grow into colors is a fascinating watch, but I
think those are the only things the filmmakers wanted to bring to life.
Designing it as an action blockbuster doesn't necessarily sound like a
bad idea, but skimming out the soul that made the story compelling is
what tones everything down into another generic fantasy film. The
acting is okay, as usual. Brenton Thwaites does have the looks of a
hero, but he only leaves a few personality to the role, the most
conspicuous one is the kid's curiosity. A more natural fit is Jeff
Bridges who gives the gravity that should have been there throughout
the film.

The Giver may have the external vision; the events, culture,
characters, and language stayed intact; but again, everything else
suffers the same problem. The rich world it already provides is no more
than a cool design, while replacing the unique narrative with clichés.
And it's not good at one of its clichés either, the additional more
focused romantic subplot is as underdeveloped as the others out there.
There just isn't much love to the subtext, the movie is basically just
fitting in to the era of young adult novels with bad politics and
rebellion; but again and again the story is never about them. It's
neither about the love story or the teen angst. Whatever point it tries
to say, it would only lie at the idea, and the movie didn't spend much
time to that. There is some interesting visuals to spare, but what's
left here is just another bland teen fantasy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into the movie with high expectations after having read the book
in high school. I absolutely loved the book and always imagined it to
be a certain way. While some aspects of the film met my expectations in
terms of visual delivery and execution of the novel, a lot of it did
not. There were many scenes that I would have loved to see but were not
included. 

As a film on its own, I found some of the acting to be lacking in
emotions and conviction. I did enjoy Meryl Streep and the Giver, but
the rest were very average. Some parts of the film felt slightly
rushed, missing out on the true essence and meaning it could have
conveyed. I did not feel as indulged in the film as I was in the book.
Perhaps this was because I loved the book very much, but I feel it was
also because the film lacked passion and depth. The overall message and
meaning behind the story was not adequately conveyed as important
scenes were not emphasized on and were rushed. Jonas's character
development happened too quickly and we could not create a connection
with any of the characters in the film. 

Overall, I found the film to be average. Those that have read the book
will find it to be below expectations whereas others may enjoy it for
the concept and meaning it attempts to convey.
<|_=00=_|>
Books are a means of allowing the imagination to unfold without a
budget to hold back your creativity. Yet in Hollywood they are
ultimately a means to write the next big blockbuster to draw people to
the theaters. This weekend yet another adapted screenplay comes to life
in the form of the Giver. Haven't heard of the book? Neither had I
until about three weeks ago, so I was excited to see what this movie
had in store. What were my thoughts on the film? Read on to find out. 

The Giver is not the most exciting tale, merely another story about a
utopia where everything is controlled and all negative aspects have
been eliminated. At the beginning of the movie, the pace is a little
slow, a mere introduction into the world and all its endeavors. It is
not until we meet the Giver (Jeff Bridges) that things begin to pick up
and thing become much more interesting. The Giver trains his protégée
Jonas (Brenton Thwaites) to take on his new job as the Receiver,
learning the memories of the past in order to guide the future. While
not the most unique story, this tale is interesting in the way it is
executed as both cinematography and acting come together to make a
fantastic presentation. 

We'll start with the cinematography and editing first. The black and
white world hasn't been seen in a popular movie since the Artist, but
this time we have sound to go along with our nostalgic filter. The lack
of color sort of drains you of your emotions, which falls in line with
the emotions of the town. As Jonas learns more about the past, things
begin to change though and the developing team begins to subtlety
introduce colors back to the film. It gradually adds excitement to the
film, running parallel to the evolving story and characters within it,
until the exciting, albeit downgraded, climax. Perhaps the greatest
source of emotion though come from the memories that the two
protagonists share. The directors selected great clips to entertain us
with, starting simple at first and gradually diving deeper down the
rabbit hole. Each memory brings about it a new set of feelings each
further developing Jonas to make the choices he makes. Between each of
these memories we have Jonas reintroduced back into the world, seeing
it through different eyes as he contemplates the inner workings. Often
these realizations bring back more colors, as well as further pieces of
the puzzle to solve. It is balanced, and very good at teaching us
lesson with the emotions that well up with each scene. Here I will warn
you to exercise caution with younger minds, for some of the darker
memories may be a bit too much, sad or disturbing, for smaller children
to handle. 

Of course the camera can only do so much, and movies require actors to
assist in bringing the players to life. Bridges is my favorite of the
bunch, his rugged approach to characters providing the right gruff to
make anything both funny and serious at the same time. His sarcastic
delivery and straight to the point approach provides both entertainment
and lesson, helping to alleviate the tension that builds up in the
movie. Thwaites' chemistry with him is good, the boy not only reacting
to the new memories, but also trying to handle everything that comes
with them. While a bit overacted at parts, Thwaites manages to pull off
the role well and was quite enjoyable to watch. While these two are the
bread and butter of the movie, the supporting characters have some good
acting to further enhance the story. The talented Meryl Streep brings
the Chief Elder to life, not necessarily evil, but with evil like
qualities she used to maintain order. Streep's voice was perfect for
the role of a supreme leader, and her elegant features complemented the
monotone suit well. Playing kind of the second in command is Katie
Holmes, whose track record has been mixed in terms of acting quality.
For this reviewer, she did a great job playing the stern mother, using
her stoic facial features from the past to really bring a sense of
threat and discipline. Holmes has played plenty of no nonsense roles
and she slips right back into the role that both annoyed and impressed
me at the same time. Odeya Rush is a very cute actress, who has a great
talent for line delivery, executing her lines with the right emotions
with the right emphasis. She does have to work a little on her voice
breaking, because some her lines sounded more like whining than acting
for me. Yet she does a nice job of changing out her acting style as the
characters change. Even Taylor Swift makes an appearance in this movie,
though her acting hasn't greatly changed from her earlier roles. 

To wrap this review up, The Giver is a thoroughly enjoyable movie by
how fantastic the emotions are presented. This is a movie that does a
great job at teaching lessons, and doing it without the cheesy dialog
that often makes Facebook quotes. The combination of visuals and acting
are some of the best I've seen in a while, and have not been
overshadowed by high explosive special effects. Yet it is not the most
exciting movie and has some stretches to accept in order to get the
full effect. Is it worth the trip to the theatre? I would say not
necessarily so, because there isn't a lot made for the big screen,
though I'm not saying you are wasting your money if you do go see it.
My scores for The Giver are:

Drama/Sci-Fi: 7.5 Movie Overall: 7.5
<|_=00=_|>
"The Giver" is one of my favorite books, my eighth grade self could
feel the emotions of Jonas as he received his first memories, cringe as
his friends became unscathed by murder, and in awe as he watched a
colorless apple turn red. The movie explores the concept of losing
touch with emotion- in a way that was better than I expected. I thought
my fantasy of making "The Giver" come to life exactly as I had imaged
it would take hold and send me wining about how "I could have made a
better movie!" Well, it did give life to the book, although it was
through different ways (like a kiss, the nursery for babies, or a
punch)- ways that were more appealing to an audience visually. I do
wish the red apple had been the first color to appear- oh well! I was a
little sad at not keeping the sense of complete mystery as to what
happens to Jonas's town after he crosses the border of memories. Also,
frequent flashes of memories distracted me at times (like what am I
watching again?), but they did give insight into Jonas's onset of new
thoughts- the movie would feel bleak without them. It seems I left the
theater believing in the necessity of feeling all emotions, and
relieved for the fictional society of no memories having to deal with
life itself! A thought-provoking movie I am glad to have seen. After
all if you can't feel, what's the point?
