
When I saw the trailer for Space Chimps, I honestly thought it looked
cute and fun, also they mentioned that it was made by the same folks
who did Shrek, so I figured that it was going to be gold. I was first
off a little surprised that it didn't do so hot at the box office, not
only that, but it has a pretty low rating here on IMDb. I was thinking
how this movie was probably awful, but how could it be? It's an
animation film, so I still wanted to see it, I checked it out today and
honestly, it's not a 4.4 rating movie, I think people are being a
little too harsh on it. I agree that it's nothing special, but it's a
cute movie that had it's moments. Opening the same weekend as The Dark
Knight and Mamma Mia, we needed a good hearted film for the family as
well, and Space Chimps does deliver on that.

Ham is a chimp who is the grandson of a famous chimp astronaut who was
the first chimp in space. When there is possible life found on another
planet, three scientists decide to experiment and instead of risking
human life, the send out the chimps including Ham to space to find the
alien life form. Ham, Luna, and Titon are sent out into space, but Ham
isn't taking it seriously, constantly joking around, hitting on Luna,
Titon constantly taking credit for everything. When they do land on the
planet, they meet some interesting creatures and have to save the
planet since one alien, Zartog, wants to take over.

Space Chimps isn't a bad movie, it's just nothing special, I'd
recommend waiting for the rental. It's a cute movie thought for the
little ones. But I did enjoy a few scenes, I loved the line Titon says
to Ham "Are you David Bowie?"... you'll have to see what I mean, but
there are some cute and fun moments. The animation is so-so, the voices
are decent, except some moments seemed a little stereotypical and
clich√©. But as a family kid movie, I would say that this is a go, just
don't expect anything like Shrek.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just took my 4 year old boy to see this movie and we left shortly
before it was over. We were not the only ones to leave early either.
Only once was there any laughter from the audience. I thought most of
the punch lines were aimed at the adult audience, but no one was
laughing. I was very disappointed that there wasn't any moral to the
story - if there was, it was vague. The characters were not all that
likable either. I didn't feel any connection to them at all, nor did my
son. I left the theater thinking that this was the biggest waste of
time and money. Space Chimps is no Shrek. This has to be the worst
G-rated movie I have ever seen. My son thought it was very boring and
he usually loves action/adventure movies. The only thing he liked about
the whole experience was the pack of Twizzlers I bought him.
<|_=00=_|>
i went into this movie blind. i had seen the trailer once and had not
heard any critiques on it. i think Space Chimps won't set any
benchmarks as a great animation flick - it was only so-so. to
greamamerican, you've completely confused me by saying the first 30
minutes was boring, but in the same post you say you left after 10
minutes. numbers don't add up there bud. but that aside, you have to
give the movie a chance. no, it won't grow on you - and more than
likely you'll leave as i did thinking 'something was missing'. yes, the
main character Ham can be extremely annoying and Titan seems like a
recycled Buzz Lightyear but... what am i saying there is no but - this
movie was not good. save it for a rental on family movie night - but
don't spend your hard earned cash at the theater to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I can say for most viewers in my cinema by their -sighs-, that Space
Chimps was a led down. Although SOME bits were "almost" half-funny,
most of the movie was portrayed through dull characters and not such a
good storyline. 

The disappointing thing was, that this movie could of had so much more
to give and un-tapped potential, but instead was just a let down for
me.

Personally, this movie would not be entertaining for most people above
the age of 15+, yet more for families with their little kids.

Overall, it was a mediocre, and should be viewed by either kids, or
people that like repeated jokes, and already used story lines. Rated
5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Have you seen movies that almost wore you out after 45 minutes? Im
talking about too much action, too much bickering and yelling between
people, too much happening the screen, too loud.....just too much. You
want to cry, "enough, already....give us a few lulls!" That's how found
this cute-at-first animated film which starts off great but quickly
spirals into the "too much" category and never lets go. Maybe I'm just
too old for this sort of thing; maybe this is what five or
ten-year-olds want....but I'm not surprised this animated film wasn't a
hit - with adults or some kids.

Don't get wrong: there are a number of funny lines in here, the
animation is great in spots, and some of the characters (i.e.
"Kilowatt") are very appealing. It's just that the film feels rushed,
right from the start. One can never just settle down and enjoy the
stories, character and artwork. This story needed more lulls.

It also need less ("wink" "wink") inside, pretentious remarks by the
writers, who tried too hard to get their PC agendas in here throughout.
The "heroes," the space chimps, were always bickering among themselves.
That led to some funny put-down lines but also got tiring, too, after
almost an hour of it. The villain, "Zartog," meanwhile, was just plain
stupid. Nobody that silly/dumb, even in science fiction, could rule
anyone.

In all, it was just too disjointed and too frenetic - all the while
being predictable - to enjoy. Although only 80 minutes in length, I
found myself often checking how much time was left in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
We just got back from seeing this movie, and I still can't believe how
bad it actually was.

I think my daughter chuckled once. I simply looked on in horror. The
plot was awful. The aliens looked like they were scooped up from the
cutting room floor of an old Barbie movie. Even the awesome Patrick
Warburton was hopeless in this movie. I don't know what he was doing
here. He must've bought a new summer home. They had things in this
movie, I think they were supposed to be jokes, simply awful.

Sample Dialog: Boy monkey: "Follow me." Girl monkey: "Roger that!" Boy
monkey: "Who's Roger? Is it serious?"

This may have been the worst movie I've ever seen in my life. Stay far
away, you have been warned.

p.s. The fact that Mr. Ebert gave this movie 3 stars is the final proof
that it's time for that wonderful man to hang it up.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to admit that I've enjoyed Space Chimps. No, I've not gone
bananas, but there's something beautiful to this goofy animated comedy
that appealed, perhaps in its simplicity and its not attempting to try
and be more than it cannot be. 

Ham III (voiced by Andy Samberg). a circus monkey whose the key to the
"monkey cannonball" act, happens to be the descendant of its decorated
ancestor Ham I, the first monkey to have entered outer space. As NASA
does send animals early in their history of missions to perform certain
tests, and more so as guinea pigs, their current space programme is
under threat of being axed, unless of course the scientists can all
prove their worth. Just so happens that a space probe gets send to the
opposite side of a wormhole, that it presents an opportunity to send a
crack team of animals to the other side as well to test waters, hence
the assembly of our merry animals.

You have Ham III, the reluctant astronaut put into the team for some PR
purpose, who joins the usual caricatures of team captain and beefcake
Titan, as well as beautiful Luna, who provides the brains for the
mission and cursory love interest for our protagonist chimp. On the
ground, besides the wacky human scientists who always deny their nerd
status, you have Comet and Houston, fellow chimps who provide ground
expertise to our crew's mission in space. Truth is, and a departure in
animated movies of late, this one is sans big name stars or voice
talent, and doesn't detract you away from the story, nor have one
talent steal the thunder from the rest. Like a well oiled space
mission, Space Chimps is and plays out like a consolidated team effort.

The adversary they face are a group of silly aliens under the control
of Zartog, who consolidated his power no thanks to the human space
probe by hitting the manual override button, as well as various
environmental challenges reminiscent of the latest Journey to the
Center of the Earth, and provides ample opportunity for some pretty
wacky characters, with set action pieces like swinging from vine to
vine, making more sense here when compared to that in The Crystal
Skull.

The graphics here are kept simple and uncomplicated. It's easy to find
fault with so many things in this movie, given the likes of Pixar which
has set the benchmark, but as I've said, I'm not looking for too much,
and the simplicity of it all in Space Chimps makes it a refreshing
breath of fresh air. The story at times might find itself hard pressed
to throw in some wisecracks on pop culture, but there are indeed
moments to have it in the movie so subtly, you'll probably blink and
you miss it. If you're willing to leave your 1% intellect at the door,
perhaps you may just enjoy this movie about primates that exhibit
similar emotions and attributes to our own.
<|_=00=_|>
Some pretty harsh comments about this movie and I don't know why. As an
adult I found it funny and Titan was cast perfectly.

There was even a good message or two and some well camouflaged adult
type humor in there. We liked it and we would buy it. One or two things
in the show almost raised a red flag (ie: scary cave monster), but it
wasn't that bad. I say enjoy!

Some of my favorite parts were with the rocket-scientists though and a
little more investigation into the cast reveals some interesting
characters. I gave this an 8 out of 10 and maybe I was feeling a little
generous but it made me laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented it for my 3 kids to watch. They range in age 5, 8, and 11. All
3 were fully entertained! They always have to check out any movie with
chimps as the main characters-- and although animated, they laughed
throughout. The graphics weren't the best out there but the jokes made
up for it. There is something for everyone. Boys and girls will enjoy
it. The character of kilowatt is one of the cutest I've ever seen. And
the lead of Ham has some off beat jokes you'd probably find in more
adult comedies. It's the kind of movie you'll feel good after watching
it. I didn't recognize any of the actors as "big names" but it was
still entertaining. Check it out with the kiddos!
<|_=00=_|>
This CGI animated movie is not complex or sophisticated. It is a simple
story of very clever chimps, full of human characteristics, being sent
through a space warp to a planet full of aliens, and emerging
triumphant. It is aimed at kids, although there are gags in it for
adults. It is bright and colloidal, the characters (humans, chimps and
aliens) are all engaging, the alien world is imaginative, the action
flows well, the Decalogue is fun, and the story is easy to follow.

If I sound a little half-hearted, then it's because I am. Despite all
the good things listed above, the movie itself comes across as a little
half-hearted. The animation, for instance, while adequate, isn't up to
the standard we've become used to in CGI features. The voice cast
perform OK, but aren't particularly high profile (Jeff Daniels and
Stanley Tucci are the top names). And there's at least one matter which
we expected to see resolved before the end, but which is still hanging
loose.
