
The experience is extraordinary from different reasons. Martin Scorsese
with a legendary career behind him breaks new ground with the fierce
and renewed passion. A film made for the love of film not for box
office expectations. A work of love from beginning to end. Then, Andrew
Garfield. What a year for this young spectacular actor. The kindness in
his eyes made the journey so personal for me. I must say that I've been
very lucky because I've been lead by my mentor (another Martin by the
way)into the world of Scorsese. I found Scorsese's films brilliant yes,
but too dark, too violent and hopeless and my mentor said, "No, don't
stay in the periphery, go in. You'll see Martin Scorsese's films are
religious experiences" Well I got in, I saw, I felt, I understood and
as a consequence I wept for most of Silence. Thank you Marty and Martin
from the bottom of my heart.
<|_=00=_|>
Agnus Dei that is, Lambs of God. What an extraordinary film.Martin
Scorsese confirms his seriousness of intent and his enormous respect
for his audience.He rates us so highly that he confides in us, telling
us something that clearly comes straight out of his heart. Dry, severe,
an intellectual's sensibility that becomes clear and accessible to all
as we realize that Scorsese is not trying to sell us something but just
to tell us, to share with us something that obsesses him. I was
enthralled and moved throughout. The performances in a Scorsese film
are always superb but in Silence, Andrews Garfield goes a step beyond
superb. He managed to make his priest someone I knew personally even if
his reality is far, far away from us in time and space. A masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
It's Scorsese. Martin Scorsese. He makes the best films. Is this one of
his best? Hmm....

It's a personal/religious epic, but it's all about the interior self -
an intimate epic, which is always the toughest to pull off. Silence
chronicles morality in such a way that is staggering and with very few
specks of light (that is, brief relief through laughter - it does come
through the character Kichijiro, more on him in a moment), and it's
practically an anomaly to be released by a major studio with such a
budget and big stars. This is a story that comes from history you
rarely ever get to see anymore - history from a country like Japan that
doesn't involve samurai (at least how we see them) and dealing with
Christianity vs Buddhism - and it's directed with a level of vision, I
mean in the true, eye-and-heart opening sense that declares that this
man still has a lot to say, maybe more than ever, in his latter years.

Silence is, now pondering it hours after seeing it, possibly the best
"faith-based" film ever made (or at least since Last Temptation of
Christ); in its unintentional way, a great antidote to those pieces of
garbage like God's Not Dead and War Room which preach only to a select
few and insult the intelligence of everyone else. In this story of
Jesuit priests who go on a journey to find a priest who may be long
gone but could be found and brought home, it's meant for adults who can
and should make up their own minds on religion and God, and the
persecution part of it isn't some ploy from the filmmakers for
fraudulent attention. This is about exploring what it means if you have
faith, or how to question others who do, and what happens when people
clash based on how people see the sun. Literally, I'm serious.

It's also heavier than most other films by this director, which is good
but also tough to take on a first viewing. And yet it feels always like
a Scorsese film, not only due to the rigorous craft on display (I could
feel the storyboards simmering off on to the screen, I mean that as a
compliment, this is staggeringly shot by Rodrigo Prieto, I'm glad
Scorsese's found another guy), or the performances from the main actors
(Garfield is easily giving his all, and not in any cheesy way, Driver's
solid, Neeson seems to be paying some sort of penance for some mediocre
action fare), but because of a key character: Kichijiro.

He's someone who really fits in to the Scorsese canon of characters who
are so tough to take - he makes things difficult for Rodrigues, to say
the least, and yet keeps coming back like some sad pathetic dog who
can't make up his mind - but, ultimately, the toughest thing of all for
this Father, as it must be for this filmmaker, is 'I know he is weak
and irrational and probably bad in some way... but he must be loved as
all of other God's children.' So as far as unsung performances for 2016
go, YÃ´suke Kubozuka follows in a tradition set out by none other than
De Niro (think of him in Mean Streets and Raging Bull, it's like that
only not quite so angry).

I may need another viewing to fully grasp it. But for now, yes, see it,
of course. For all its length and vigorous explorations and depictions
of suffering (occasionally highly graphic), not to mention the, for
Scorsese, highly unusual approach of a lack of traditional (or any)
music or score, it's unlike anything you'll see in cinema this year,
maybe the decade, for pairing the struggle of a man to reconcile his
God and his responsibility to others in a repressive regime with the
visual splendor of something from another time - maybe Kurosawa if he'd
had a collaboration with Bergman. And yet for all of this high praise,
there's also a feeling of being exhausted by the end of it. Whether
that exhaustion extends to other viewings I'm not sure yet. As a
life-long "fan" of this director, I was impressed if not blown away.
<|_=00=_|>
To this day, Martin Scorsese remains my all-time favourite director, a
man whose approach to cinema completely differs to others in Hollywood,
his appreciation towards cinema as an art form is his finest quality in
what makes him arguably the greatest film director around. With
'Silence' promoted as Scorsese's 20-year passion project, it was a film
I couldn't resist seeing, the legend back behind the camera focusing on
a subject not fully studied in cinema, a subject that's mostly
misunderstood.

I want to start with my conclusion and go from there. 'Silence' won't
be everybody's film, the same way other ambitious films like 'The
Revenant' or 'The Tree of Life' weren't, however despite my respect to
Scorsese's mastery and level of detail, in my own honest opinion I
believe this film fell short due to the lack of insight into it's main
theme and thus instead transformed into a slow and somewhat dreary tale
that arguably didn't need it's near 3-hour running time to tell its
tale.

Now don't get me wrong, in regards to the film's craft it is a
masterpiece, the cinematography is raw and epic, the direction from
Scorsese is phenomenal and the set design is gorgeous. Accompanying
this are a series of fine performances, most notably from Andrew
Garfield who should receive monumental praise for his role, I haven't
seen such a visceral performance in years, the raw emotion is uncanny.
But unfortunately the technicalities and craft can't cover up the flaws
that lie in the running time and the tediously slow plot that didn't
want to end.

If there's anything I can leave you with from this review to help you
decide as to whether it's a worthy watch or not, let me just say this:
'Silence' isn't a piece of entertainment, it's instead an experience;
and whilst a technically masterful one at that, many audience members
may find themselves slowly drifting off to sleep - as my neighbour in
the cinema did. It isn't really a case of liking it or disliking it,
it's more a case of the adventure, and despite my partial
disappointment with it, the adventure was more than worthy enough for
the viewing. Scorsese is still an exquisite auteur, flaws or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Christianity came to Western Japan in 1542 by way of Jesuit
missionaries from Portugal who brought gunpowder and religion. They
were welcomed mostly for the weapons they brought and their religion
was allowed to be practiced openly. Christianity was banned, however,
after reports circulated of missionary intolerance towards the Shinto
and Buddhist religions, and there were rumors of the sale of Japanese
into overseas slavery. It wasn't until the late 1630s, however, that a
complete ban on Christianity was declared and enforced by the Tokugawa
Shogunate and persecutions, torture, and murders were relentlessly
pursued.

Based on Shusaku Endo Edo's 1966 historical novel culled from the oral
histories of Japanese Catholics, Martin Scorsese's masterful film
Silence brings us face to face with the repression faced by the early
missionaries. While the film does not condone the subjugation of
religious minorities, it examines the advisability of attempting to
convert a country's population without a deep understanding of their
beliefs and traditions. The film opens in 1635 as two Jesuit priests,
Sebastian Rodrigues (Andrew Garfield, "Hacksaw Ridge") and Francesco
Garrpe (Adam Driver, "Paterson"), request permission from their
superior Father Valignano (Ciaran Hinds, "Bleed for This") to go to
Japan to discover the fate of their mentor, Father Cistavio Ferreira
(Liam Neeson, "A Monster Calls"), rumored to have renounced his faith
and to be living with a Japanese wife.

The missionaries are not unaware of the persecution and murder of
thousands of peasants and priests who have converted to Christianity,
yet they are anxious to undertake their dangerous mission to support
the local Christians and to find out the truth about Father Ferreira.
When they arrive in Japan they are greeted by a group of "hidden
Christians" known as "kakure kirishitan" who have been compelled to
publicly renounce their faith and go into hiding to practice their
faith in secret, knowing that anyone can earn 100 pieces of silver for
turning in a Christian to the authorities and 300 pieces for
surrendering a priest. Here, the two priests hear confessions and give
baptisms and say mass in the middle of the night In order to avoid
capture.

Working with such past collaborators as Editor Thelma Schoonmaker
("Learning to Drive"), Production Designer Dante Ferretti
("Cinderella"), and Cinematographer Rodrigo Prieto ("The Wolf of Wall
Street"), Scorsese does not hold back in showing the graphic nature of
the torture that those who are arrested must endure. This includes
beheadings, being wrapped in straw and burned alive or thrown into the
sea. Some are mounted on a cross and placed in the sea until death
comes mercifully after repeated pounding of the waves against them. For
some, to die a martyr is a high calling, one which will be rewarded in
the afterlife and they accept their fate willingly similar to today's
Islamic suicide bombers.

Rodrigues, however, now separated from Garrpe, takes on a Christ-like
appearance and begins to see himself as the personification of Jesus.
He now must choose between rigidly maintaining his religious beliefs or
saving the lives of innocent villagers by surrendering to the audacious
Inquisitor (Issey Ogata) by placing his foot on a carved Christian icon
known as a fumie, an act tantamount to renouncing his faith. In doing
so, Rodrigues thinks about Kichijiro (YÃ´suke Kubozuka, "Deadman
Inferno"), a convert who continually begs for the Sacrament of Penance
after he apostasizes again and again. The issues are further
crystallized when Rodrigues confronts the truth about Father Ferreira.

While Silence does not fully achieve the transcendence of a true
spiritual epic, Scorsese should be acknowledged for opening up the
space for a meaningful inquiry into a subject that has perplexed
countless philosophers and students of religions for centuries. Perhaps
inadvertently, the film, however, does shine a light on the inadequacy
of both secular materialism and fundamentalist religion to satisfy our
true spiritual needs and answer the overriding question of the film.
This must be answered by each person through their own direct
experience. For me, to know God is to embrace the silence, to live in
it, and know that it is the "source of all sound."
<|_=00=_|>
20 years in the making (apparently) and yet the most stark silence was
that of the audience after the movie who clearly and with
understandable deference to the Scorsese canon, were unwilling to
immediately call this movie out for the self-indulgent disaster it
actually is and could find few words to compensate for the searing
boredom most had undoubtedly endured. Perhaps it's art masquerading as
entertainment but, for me, it fails as either. The story was sparse,
the characters undeveloped, the cinematography sometimes lush and
promising and often the best thing about the movie. The message? There
was little here that gave me anything to chew on. Faith is a tough gig
at any time but particularly on a clandestine crusade in 17th century
Japan? Sure. When life is almost unbearably awful the promise of
paradise in the afterlife is alluring? Uh-huh. Belief is riddled with
ambiguity, uncertainty, fear and doubt. Yep, I get it. If we were meant
to sympathise or even empathise with a mission to convert the peasant
classes in isolated and xenophobic Japan then I failed, badly. When God
spoke in the silence I got confused, more worryingly so did the Jesuit
priest. What was the question Scorsese was struggling so obviously to
answer? I don't know but as Bukowski once said "for those who believe
in God most of the big questions are answered" and for those who don't?
Well they have an opportunity to be their own God.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a reasonable argument to say that SILENCE is one of Martin
Scorsese's better movies. The talk is that it was a passion project of
his for decades, finally being released in all it's artistic endeavors
and mysteries. I suppose someone else could argue the opposite: that
this is a story full of brutality and despair without the signature
style of the aged director. I think I'm falling right on the middle on
this one. This is surely one of the year's most powerful stories, and
yet I have to admit it left me cold.

The story follows two priests from Portugal (Andrew Garfield and Adam
Driver) who venture into hostile Japanese country in search of their
mentor, Father Ferreira (Liam Neeson), who has abandoned his Christian
faith. Some chalk it up to mere rumors. These two young ministers take
the journey to find out for themselves.

What begins as a fairly traditional story ventures into the heart of
Japan in the 16th Century with a sharp attention to both detail and
horror. This is less a story of a search for one man as it is an
odyssey into the despair found in conflicting religious beliefs. Father
Rodrigues (Andrew Garfield) holds hope that Ferreira is alive while
also working to convert as many locals under cover of darkness. Upon
landing on the shores of Japan (smuggled in on small fishing boats from
China), he encounters villages of faithful Christians who worship in
secret. For them, the arrival of Rodrigues and Father Garupe (Driver)
is confirmation of their beliefs. Through language barriers, it seems
that God is always present.

As we delve further into the country towards Nagasaki (where Ferreira
is said to be held), the two priest break off on separate journeys.
Rodrigues, though oftentimes alone, is shadowed by a Japanese recluse
named Kichijiro, a drunk who once betrayed his faith in order to spare
his life (he witnessed the execution of his entire family) but returns
to the faith time again in order to make Confession and amends with the
Lord. Rodrigues continues to absolve him, and yet this is the slow
unraveling of an aspect of this story: do the Japanese really
comprehend the religion in the same way Westerners do?

There are three people who make this movie better than average: Andrew
Garfield surely gives one of the year's best performances as a man
trapped in his own personal Hell, forced to grapple between martyrdom
and eternal damnation. It's a strong year for Garfield, getting
accolades and Oscar buzz for his other leading role in 'Hacksaw Ridge.'
Trust me, this is the better performance. Second is the skill of Martin
Scorsese, who slowly paints a portrait of a time long forgot with such
attention to tone. It's a horrifying and at times morbid story to sit
through, but there was never a moment I found myself any less than
fully-focused and contemplative.

Third is a surprise, a breakthrough performance by a Japanese actor
named Issey Ogata who gives without a doubt one of the year's most
memorable performances. Throughout the film the Christians living in
Japan are routinely inspected by samurai officials who intend to hunt
down and capture any found citizens in violation of the law. One such
official is Inoue Masashige (Ogata) who treats the job with a certain
flair. Constantly waving a fan and with an ear to ear smile, this is a
performance that steps above the rest of the cast by perfectly
encapsulating the braggadocious nature of Japanese law without missing
a beat. It's a winking devil performance that I hope the Oscars won't
look over.

'Silence' is at times hard to palpate and yet rewards the audience for
it's patience. Whether or not this film can be interpreted as being pro
or anti-Catholic is maybe not the ultimate message of this film. While
the final act delves into a horrifyingly-dark arena, consider the final
shot before the credits begin to role (I won't spoil it). In such a
brutal era with antiquated customs, isn't there still hope left to be
found?
<|_=00=_|>
In the Seventeenth Century, in Portugal, the Portuguese Jesuit priests
SebastiÃ£o Rodrigues (Andrew Garfield) and Francisco Garupe[ (Adam
Driver) ask permission to Father Alessandro Valignano (CiarÃ¡n Hinds) to
travel to Japan to investigate the rumors that their mentor Father
CristÃ³vÃ£o Ferreira (Liam Neeson) had committed apostasy abandoning his
Catholic faith after being tortured by the shogunate. They meet the
alcoholic fisherman Kichijiro (Yosuke Kubozuka) that agrees to guide
them to Japan. When they arrive at a small village, they learn that the
Christians residents live hidden in caves since the Inquisitor kills
any villager suspect to be Christian. Along the days, Rodrigues and
Garupel propagate Catholicism among the villagers and try to find a
lead to Ferreira. But when the Inquisitor arrives in the village with
his men, the live of the residents and the priests will change.

"Silence" is a film directed by Martin Scorcese that shows how cruel a
man can be. Based on historical facts, "Silence" show the powerful
Shogunate defending their religion and culture against the European
Catholicism that promises easy paradise to the suffered Japanese
workers that has to work lot to pay the taxes and survive. The result
is a good, but too long and tiresome film. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "SilÃªncio" ("Silence")
<|_=00=_|>
I left half-way through. I didn't storm out, but after 1.25 hours I'd
had enough. What I saw was well-done, but I kept asking myself "What
was the point of all this?" The film was hugely supportive of
missionising, but was the Jesuit missionising in 17C Japan a good
thing? The Japanese government had a policy of keeping out all
foreigners, including missionaries, but they had good reasons for doing
this. As had been seen in the Americas, and was being seen in China,
missionaries came hand-in-hand with commercial interests, backed up by
the military. It usually didn't end well for the local people, who were
usually colonised and often enslaved.

Yes, the methods used by the Japanese government were cruel, but were
no crueller than what Christians were doing to each other at the time.
The Thirty Years War between Catholics and Protestants was an ongoing
bloodbath.

The missionaries were excellent marketers, skilled in the double-whammy
approach - first sell 'em Sin, then sell 'em Salvation, the
missionaries being the indispensable middle-men. So thousands of
Japanese died because they swallowed the missionaries' self-serving
mumbo-jumbo.

I had hoped that the film would be more nuanced, exploring the rights
and wrongs of missionising. Instead Scorcese chooses to do a propaganda
piece - glorifying brave, noble missionaries against the cruel Japanese
government.

Not a great film.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I would be lying if I said that I wasn't silenced after watching
this film. Really interesting subject matter. I am curious about the
book now. When I first heard about the film I thought it looked like a
modern "Andrei Rublev" set in Japan. Well, I was wrong about that. This
film is very much its own beast. These are my first impressions right
after seeing it.

I didn't know much about the history of the Jesuit priests who traveled
all the way to Japan. I did know that some Japanese converted to
Christianity, but I didn't know there were that many. So, I was very
surprised by that. It does explain a lot though. I understand more of
the reasons why a civil war started in Japan that would ultimately lead
to any foreigner being banned from the country. It's actually very
interesting how the Japanese Christians almost feel more faithful than
a lot of the European characters.

This film explores both the beauty and the horrors of humans and their
faiths. There are many beautiful calm scenes where you can relax and
admire the stunning sets and locations. Then there are many scenes that
will make you nervous, emotional and horrified because of the cruel
punishments that some people must endure.

Religion is an interesting subject matter and everyone has their own
different view and opinion on it. I still haven't finished processing
this film yet, but I'll tell you this; it's something that will stay on
your mind for a while. It makes you think about a lot of things. Like
what's right and wrong about the different views brought up in the
film? And how would things have been different if everyone would have
accepted each others beliefs? And even if they didn't believe in the
same thing, could they all still live in peace?

It's not an action packed adventure, but more of a spiritual journey
with exploration about morals, history and so much more. I thought it
was wonderful, but do see it if you can and judge for yourself.
