
Eli Roth has learnt a lot of things from his mate Quentin Tarantino,
but without a shadow of a doubt, how to talk was the one he learnt
best. If you believed everything that came out of the Hostel: Part 2
director's mouth, you'd be under the impression that this was a new
lesson in extreme cinema, pushing the boundaries of what is acceptable
on screen to new and previously unheard of levels. Gore-hounds though
will most likely walk out the multiplexes with the same aftertaste that
the first Hostel left; it's violent sure, but it's not the harshest,
most disturbing film ever made by a long shot. In fact, the only reason
you should approach with kid gloves is because this time, it is girls
that suffer. Young, nice and pretty girls with much to offer the world
and whether or not dismembering them is more shocking than torturing
and killing a horny male jock is a matter for feminist academics to
debate.

The story this time focuses on a trio of art students studying abroad
who decide to do some travelling during their holidays. Convinced by a
local of the attractions to be had in a Slovakian spa (uh-oh!), tough
girl Whitney (Bijou Philips), rich, confident lesbian Beth (Lauren
German) and nerdish, murderer-magnet Lorna (Heather Matarazzo) set off
for a few relaxing days in the former Soviet block, only to find
themselves being splattered all over the walls instead. It's grim and
it's nihilistic, but not without a vein of dark humour running
throughout (the hell-spawn local brats play football with a severed
head), but unlike the first film's bewildered hero Paxton (Jay
Hernandez), it's difficult to cheer the protagonists on. Thankfully,
we're spared the gratuitous, borderline-pornography of the last film,
but the girls are so two-dimensional it's hard to care when their
holiday starts to go wrong, Lorna for instance being so sweet, naive
and childish that she might as well be a parody.

That said though, if you're after more of the same arcing blood sprays
and annihilated bodies, Hostel 2 delivers. However, it neither matches
nor surpasses the original. Claret still flies of course but in a bit
more subdued way and surprisingly, the final act doesn't even come
close to matching the frantic, battle for survival that Paxton went
through two years ago. Much of the violence takes place off camera,
where the audience imagination is set to run wild to the screams of the
mutilated but only one scene towards the end is liable to make you
wince. Considering the shock-value of the original lay in tendon
slicing, fingers being severed, a girl exploding as a train hit her and
the eyeball scene, it seems like a step backwards as far as gore is
concerned. Instead, Roth goes for a dark psychological approach but
woefully mishandles it. The shocking about turns of the plot are more
predictable than the director seems to think and what should have been
a tense, nail-biting conflict of wits misfires, giving us nothing but
loads of shouting and a dramatic, but unbelievable personality shift.
Roth may know how to do gore, but characterisations? Forget about it.

As a result, Hostel Part 2 is evidence of how far you can go if your
self-belief is spectacularly high, but that is all. All talk of this
being a doom-laden, intestine shredding nerve-jangler can do nothing to
disguise the fact that it apes the masters but doesn't outdo them.
Consider how good this would have been if Neil Marshal had directed it
for example? Unfortunately, Roth and Tarantino were presumably too busy
head-banging to men being torn apart by dogs, girls getting buzz-saws
in the face and the gruesome 'Bathory' scene to notice. The Tarantino
connection however is rather apt and had this not been a sequel, it
could just as easily have gone under a different name and been attached
to the Grindhouse project. Don't be surprised if future installments
wind up going straight to DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, Eli. What happened? Cabin Fever was a fun horror flick and the
first Hostel had its moments, but this? My excitement over a Roth
helmed Cell has just dropped dramatically.

Opening where the first film left off, things get off to a bad start as
we meet back up with Paxton, with Jay Hernandez phoning in a curiously
wooden performance. The first "scares" are very poorly handled and
obvious.

After the pointless prologue, we meet our new gender swapped
protagonists. Bijou Phillips's is the obnoxious, one-dimensional slut
who just wants to sleep with Viktor Krum. Heather Matarazzo's Lorna
should have been a good character. Matarazzo is a talented actress, but
here she hams it up too much and Roth piles on the "she's an
introverted nerd!" touches far too heavily. She's sorta the Josh of
Hostel II, only Lorna is a cartoon where as Josh actually seemed like a
guy you could meet in a college algebra class. Lauren Graham turns in a
pretty good performance and Beth is the only one of these females who
actually feels somewhat like a real person.

The new twist on the formula lies in Roger Bart and Richard Burgi's
prospective killers. Here's where Roth could have gotten really dark
and interesting. Everyone who saw the first Hostetl remembers Rick
Hoffman's whacked out, creepy performance as the American Client. Bart
and Burgi's characters could have been used to expand on that
creepiness as well as bring in some genuine interest in Bart's
character's reluctance, amping up the suspense. But no! Instead these
characters are shallow, barely explored personalities and Roth uses
them for some cheap plot contrivances in the third act.

For a horror flick, the movie has surprisingly little scares. Scratch
that, it has no scares. There was not a moment in this movie where I
didn't see the jumps coming and there is little in the way of suspense.
The first Hostel had some genuinely suspenseful moments and Cabin Fever
even had a few "don't do that!" moments. This film has gruesome moments
for sure (that this movie got an R rating is the final nail in the
coffin for the MPAA's credibility. If Shakespeare in Love and Hostel II
share the same rating, something is seriously wrong). The first kill is
undeniably effective in being unnerving, but it lacks suspense, which
is the secret when a film is toeing the line of bad taste. This was
simply inescapable murder on display.

Interestingly, the rest of the gruesomeness that ensues is much
different in tone. Much of the third act has an almost slapstick vibe,
but Roth lacks the grace and timing of splatstick alumni like Sam Raimi
and Peter Jackson to truly pull it off. There is also a completely
superfluous scene involving a man with a gun and some children that
literally served no purpose. Roth was trying so hard to be shocking in
that scene that it had the opposite affect on me: I just stared blankly
at the screen. I couldn't care less about this completely pointless
detour featuring Roth going "look! Aren't I shocking!"

One last complaint and boy is it a big one: Nathan Barr's score. This
movie had one of the worst scores I've heard in years. Barr's music
sounds like something someone would write if they were making fun of
all the clich√©s of the horror score. That worked for the campy tone of
Cabin Fever, but it completely destroys any opportunity for suspense in
this film.

I know Eli Roth has a really good film in him. After Hostel II, I fear
the wait for that movie will be longer than I was expecting. I hope
he's finally scratched that itch for paying homage to his favorite
horror flicks and his shock for shock's sake fetish. If that makes its
way into his adaption of Stephen King's Cell, we'll have lost a great
story ripe for screen translation to a promising young filmmaker whose
head got too big too fast.
<|_=00=_|>
Apparently, Director Eli Roth has a fetish for "snuff." If fact, in a
documentary I watched on the subject recently, Roth is interviewed and
becomes visibly "giddy" when he comments on the realism of "Cannibal
Holocaust." It is no small wonder that he developed the idea for, and
directed the two Hostel films. I don't see that as an admirable
quality, but then... I am old school and still believe the best horror
isn't in-your-face-gore. I realize I am in the minority these days.

The first "Hostel" was not a great film. It was, in fact, not very
good, but what it did have was an intriguing premise: a club whose
wealthy members pay to torture and murder abducted people. What worked
was that such an idea was not entirely inconceivable. I would argue
that such clubs, just like "snuff" films, currently exist, and that was
what made the film interestingly creepy for me.

Hostel Part 2, however, offers nothing original. Instead, it robs from
various horror films of old. For example, the opening scene mirrors
that of Friday The 13th Part 2. In another scene, as I watched a female
club-member bathing in the blood of her "purchase", I couldn't decide
which vampire film the scene reminded me of most, there are so many. It
was at the ending that I actually let a laugh slip. The foiled attempt
at irony was followed by a scene reminiscent of "Blood Sucking Freaks".
"Hostel" provided solid potential for a redeeming sequel, but instead,
"Hostel Part 2" ended up being nothing more than a compilation of
already tried and over used gimmicks.
<|_=00=_|>
If one actually enjoys watching snuff movies, then this movie is for
you. See beautiful young woman being abused and mutilated in the most
horrific and perverse manner imaginable, and get your kicks by seeing
murder depicted most explicit. It is unimaginable that people actually
want to pay money to see movies like this. Quentin Tarrantino should be
ashamed of lending his name to anti-human rubbish like this.

It can be no excuse that this Hollywood crap production is supposedly
entertainment, it is simply sexist garbage, aimed at the basest
instincts.. the instincts of inhuman and possibly deviant beings. Since
the first "Hostel" movie featured the torture of males, the second
features the abuse of females, then the third installment will possibly
feature the abuse of children. 

What an irresponsible piece of trash.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very cheesy, obnoxious, and predictable movie. Three American
girls follow a young woman to Slovakia, but later find themselves being
kidnapped and perhaps murdered.

This film lacked character development, motivation, and overall
uniqueness. I had a huge problem with some of the scenes in the film.
For example, the scene where the woman is bathing in blood; it could
definitely had been shorter if they would have cut down the men
lighting up the candles. Also, when Stuart (Roger Bart) first untied
Beth (Lauren German) but then re-tied her again. It made absolutely no
sense. In addition, I believe that the entire begin was okay where we
thought Paxton (Jay Hernandez) was trapped and killed, that is until he
woke up next to a young woman (who by the way serves absolutely no
purpose to the movie) and got killed for good.

Another issue that I had with this movie was how predictable it was.
The young American women were so na√Øve that of course we felt they had
to be killed. Like, Lorna (Heather Matarazzo), didn't your mother ever
tell you not to go alone with strangers? Again too pathetic. I say,
don't waste your money, time, or effort to watch this film, you would
truly be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I know people are just going to hate my review after seeing that
title, I have a feeling people are going to give this movie a harsh
rating just because it is a sequel to Hostel. I know there are not that
many fans to the first film, I understand somewhat, it's not for the
faint of heart and the first half is like a soft core porno, not to
mention the blood and gore that's involved. But I think somewhere down
the line it will be a classic cult film. Now for the sequel, I thought,
despite a few flaws here and there, I thought it was just as good,
maybe even BETTER than the first. Not the most shocking ending I've
ever seen either, but it was a good one.

Well, the tables have turned, now we have 3 American girls who are the
target of this blood hound club's addiction to torture and death. Two
brothers are in this together, one isn't quite sure if he could do it,
one is psyched out. One of the girls is a bit naive, one is a total
slut, and one is the calm and collected one. But when they are taken by
the same people as in the first film falling into the same trap, they
soon realize the massive trouble they're in. But I think one of the
girls has heard the term "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em" a little too
much when she realizes what she's in for.

There are some massive gory scenes, a warning in advance. I thought
that they kinda took an idea, if you ever heard this woman from
history, they called her "Countess Blood", I believe, look her up if
you do not know what I'm talking about, because there is a scene that
is very much like that in Hostel 2. I would only recommend this for
fans of the first Hostel, or if you have an open mind, it's not for the
faint of heart. It's very gory and very disturbing, but it's a great
horror flick with a great ending! 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
In Rome, the wealthy Beth (Lauren German) and her college friends
Whitney (Bijou Phillips) and Lorna (Heather Matarazzo) decide to travel
to Prague to spend a couple of spare days. In the train, they meet the
model Axelle (Vera Jordanova) after an incident with rude natives of
Prague and their acquaintance convinces them to take a detour to the
beautiful Slovakia and lodge in a hostel. While partying in the
village, they are lured and offered in an international auction to
sadistic members of the Elite Hunting under a contract that does not
allow leaving the torture chamber in a hidden facility alive.

"Hostel ¬ñ Part II" is a good sequel of "Hostel", disclosing the fate of
backpacker Paxton that escaped alive from the facility in Bratislava,
Slovakia, of the first movie and then following the tragic tour of
three American friends. The story is quite similar to the first one,
except the great twist in the last five minutes with the action and
revenge of the clever and rich Beth. This violent and gore movie is
recommended only for fans of the genre, and those that liked the first
"Hostel" will certainly appreciate this sequel. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Albergue ¬ñ Parte 2" ("The Hostel ¬ñ Part 2")
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had gotten a lot of harsh reviews, so I thought I'd throw in
my two cents. I liked the first one, thought it was maybe a little
overrated but I still enjoyed it. I liked this more though, mainly
because of the story and the way it went more into how Elite Hunting
actually worked. People have said this made the film less scary than
the original, I can't comment because I didn't find the original scary.
Cool ,very entertaining and at one point very wince making, but not
scary. I don't find the concept realistic and I find torture scenes
more obnoxious than frightening. Plus, when I want that kind of in your
face nastiness, I prefer proper sickies, that aren't made with an
obvious eye on the box office returns. So, the addition of more detail
in Hostel 2 made it more interesting for me. Also, I preferred the
protagonists. I'll always have more sympathy for pretty art school
girls than loudmouth jocks. Similarly, fleshing out the bad folks made
me more interested in what they were doing. These factors made the
connective tissue between the bloodletting more watchable. It also made
me think Eli Roth's getting better as a film maker. Less like a
talented kid going crazy in a blood filled candy store, and more like
someone turning into an all round excellent horror purveyor. As far as
the gore was concerned, I had a blast. Apart from one inexplicable off
screen kill (I got no problems with restraint but off screen kills
annoy me), I loved the bloodshed. I thought the geeky girls demise was
the best gore sequence Roth's yet come up with, indeed one of the best
I've seen in any gore film over the last month or so and the fact that
there was slightly less gruelling intensity in general meant that for
me the entertainment factor went up. I'd feared Hostel 2 was going to
be end up overtly grim and irritating in an attempt to outdo the first
one but I liked the change in tack. Also, genius appearance from
Ruggero Deodato. My complaints are that, like the first one, it still
had the odd silly moment, dumb character decisions, and slightly
misjudged comedy. Still, I had great fun and I definitely recommend it.
Especially if you read the reviews that hate it before watching. I did,
they lowered my expectations and I ended up liking it even more. Over
and out.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I was a fan of the first but now I'm starting to think I was a fan
of my version of the first. All movies should have things that you
think about when you leave the theatre. Hostel was one of them, by no
means a perfect film but a very good effort. This however is so bad
that it actually ruins the first. All the stuff you had in your head
goes away, you see too much of the inner workings and it just doesn't
make sense. The acting is awful with the exception of the lead girl
(the one who lives). The character switch at the end makes absolutely
no sense,The big guy knows they'll kill him if he doesn't finish her
off and whats a bullet to the head when you've sawed her face off? The
whole scene on the train is cringeworthy, the set ups look bad, the
crowd of Italian soccer fans are all wearing fake jerseys for instance.
And the end is crap, Don't get me wrong I squirmed in my seat when she
had scissors wrapped around his nuts, decent horror moment and kind of
funny. But one why the hell would you be calling her names - NO MAN
WOULD!!! and two why did the evil group let her chop off the other
girls head. The bubblegum kids don't work, it takes 40mins to actually
see the torture place again. Jay Hernandez should have been in a more
central role, although I did like his death scene. The bloodbath was
good - the rest sucked - I've seen Last House on the Left and a woman
bite off a wee willy, I don't really need to see it again. Although I
think Eli Roth does again and again and again. The whole character
switch thing is rubbish, one guy bottles it AFTER he puts a saw through
a girls head and ther other goes a little mental when he looks at a
picture of his wife, BS! I wanted to see them pick up all sorts of
different weapons from the rack in the trailer like that bit in Kill
Bill. I wanted more humour and more smarts. A man's penis getting
chopped off and fed to a dog was funny, sick and made everyone squirm
but as for a "big payoff" it was a waste of time. Eli Roth is in fact a
crappy film maker who got lucky and kudos to the guy for jumping on QT
train and riding it all the way, I would too. In terms of being the
horror guy of this generation - Aja, Marshall, Wan and all the other
splat pack dudes are waaaayy ahead - even those who've only had one
film! Another point - The MPAA should seriously be ashamed of
themselves, they're a joke. Whats the point of them if they don't say -
"No you can't show a man's penis being cut off and fed to a dog - just
cut away". This should be a NC-17, no way a Rated R. I'm not one for
censoring films. Devils Rejects, SAW franchise etc all had good points
in trying to push their films by the board but this is getting
ridiculous, just scrap the MPAA. They don't do anything but get talked
into stupid ideas.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge horror fan...G.Romero's Dawn of the Dead is one my favorite
movies of all time. I am also a huge fan of Dario Argento's films
(Creepers,Demons etc...) a lot of these two directors films are very
bloody and very gruesome!...Romero's films have scenes of people
getting ripped apart by zombies!! Eeeccckk!..... ..But I have never
turned off one of their movies. Last night I starting watching Hostel 2
( out of boredom..Hostel 1 sucked too) and when it came to the scene
where Heather M. was being hung upside down and then gutted so a naked
woman could bath in her blood below...I immediately stopped watching
and was totally disgusted! If this is where horror movies are headed
courtesy of the Hostel and Saw films.. I have to say a big no thanks to
horror movies! I had to think why this scene bothered me so much... I
think it was because of the sadistic nature of it....it really was like
a snuff film... it was too real... and too sick!..If you watched this
movie and liked it.. you should should probably see a psychologist! and
I am really not joking when I say that. " Well aren't scenes of zombies
ripping a human apart just as sick..?" well yah they are..but there is
not a sadistic-torture elements in the zombies scenes... in this movie
it's human on human..WITH A woman getting sexual gratification from
having another woman bleed on top of her! .. its sick!...and it's not
entertainment... SAY NO TO SICK TORTURE AS ENTERTAINMENT!
