
Amy (Kate Beckinsale) and David Fox (Luke Wilson) are returning from an
arduous family reunion, on their way to Los Angeles. On their trip they
encounter car problems and inevitably pull into a motel Norman Bates
could feel right at home at. After some awkward exchanges with the
owner, they reluctantly decide to spend the night. Upon viewing some
tasteless horror films in the room, David begins to suspect their
authenticity, and that these are actual murders taking place.
Furthermore, he is led to believe the room that these events take place
in is none other than the room they are currently residing. With this
initial set-up, Vacancy wastes no time launching the audience into an
engaging, gripping, and somewhat macabre story while borrowing
sparingly from Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho and managing to side step many
land mines other horror films fail to see. 

Vacancy has both positives and negatives going for it, however the
negatives don't seem to affect the narrative as frequently as in other
films. The first thought that came to my mind was its running time. At
eighty five minutes, the film may move at too brisk of a pace for some,
and at times it feels like it should be part of a short horror film
festival, rather than a stand alone feature film. The clich√©s are very
apparent as well-the broken-down car, the mysterious stranger, the
out-of-range cell-phone, and the creepy hotel are included, but rather
than using them as a crutch for a poor script, the film seems to
celebrate their existence. It epitomizes all horror films where the
main characters are stranded, encounter mysterious people or creepy
locations. The film also fails to successfully flush out the "snuff"
film aspect that was so heavily advertised and anticipated. The screen
time of these films is very limited and the focus on them is brief.
They serve as an fundamental set-up, but after their initial
appearance, they fall out of sight and out of mind.

What makes the film much more successful than the average "teen
slasher" horror film is, ironically, the absence of teens in the film.
In recent years the most successful horror films, in my opinion, like
The Sixth Sense, What Lies Beneath, Stir of Echoes, and Hide and Seek
all revolve around families, and in particular, the relationships
between adults. In Vacancy, Amy and David are a married couple one
argument away from a divorce and unlike an amorous, oblivious, teenage
couple about to become mincemeat for an axe-murderer, the tension
between David and Amy puts them on edge throughout the whole film and
translates to tension in the audience while the film builds its
suspense. The build of the film also differs from the main pattern set
by modern "slasher" films. Winding like a key, the tension never lets
down, and unlike the ups and downs of "slasher" films where there are
multiple apexes of horror, there is a ratchet effect in Vacancy, where
there is no relief and each scene is built upon the previous one. The
other very obvious asset to the film is its relative lack of violence
compared to most other modern horror films. In recent years, films such
as the Saw series, Hostel, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and The Hills
Have Eyes have lazily resorted to the shock factor to scare their
audience rather than rely on the old saying "It's not the bang that is
scary, but rather, the anticipation to the bang." That's not to say
that the film isn't violent free, there is some definite violence
involved, but in comparison to other films it seems, dare I say,
minimal or practical.

The references to Hitchcock's Psycho are refreshingly flattering rather
than annoying. In Disturbia, a recent loose remake of Hitchcock's Rear
Window, the similarities become annoying and the film loses its
intrigue. In Vacancy, the nods to Psycho are very slight. The Pinewood
Motel itself is the most obvious example which, like the Bates Motel,
is in serious need of redecorating. The beginning credits also throw
back to Psycho with its vertical bars violently moving around to
forceful string instruments. There are similar references to Halloween
as well, but the one thing the film lacks is the characters' emotional
dilemma and their feelings of guilt involved in their situation. In
Psycho it is Marion's (Janet Leigh) moral dilemma over stealing the
money, and in Halloween it is Laurie's (Jamie Lee Curtis) feelings of
social inequity. Amy and David do not share this external baggage-their
troubled relationship is seemingly repaired through this trial that
they are put through and not manifested by a killer such as Michael
Myers or Norman Bates. There is no name given to whoever pursues them
and there is no correlation that can be drawn between the characters
and their tormentors. 

All in all Vacancy hits a few high points and is a smart enough film to
stay clear of areas where previous horror movies have failed (horrible
twist endings such as in Identity). Vacancy has a decent build of
suspense, the exclusion of gratuitous violence helps, and the
characters are more likable than those of the average horror movie. The
letdown is that the film doesn't take any substantial risks. It follows
a very linear path, with no deviations, and stays almost exclusively at
the motel. It is a film that will entertain, but won't allow for too
much out of the box thinking.
<|_=00=_|>
If we learn anything about David (Luke Wilson) and Amy Fox (Kate
Beckinsale), the heroes of Vacancy, it is that they have obviously
never watched a horror movie in their lives. If they had, they would
have known better than to check into the Pinewood Motel and we would be
left without a movie. The obvious signs are numerous and ominous.
There's the sound of a woman's blood-curdling screams coming from
behind the front desk when they check in, there's the mousy and
immediately suspicious man running the front desk (Frank Whaley) who
makes Norman Bates look like a well-adjusted model employee, and
there's the overall creepy vibe that the entire building itself gives
off. It's not until they discover the gruesome snuff films in their
motel room and the masked madmen start chasing them down that the two
finally start fearing for their lives. All the audience can do by that
point is sit back and silently say "told you so" to the characters.

When we first meet the unlucky couple, they are a constantly feuding
husband and wife who are taking an ill-advised road trip together as
kind of a last memory of their relationship before the divorce papers
become final. Tensions are high, and the fact that their car breaks
down in the middle of nowhere does not exactly help matters. This leads
them to the "Motel from Hell" where they ignore the previously
mentioned signs of trouble, and check into a scuzzy room where roaches
scurry about and mysterious stains cover the bed sheets. They quickly
catch on that there's much more to worry about when David discovers
some videotapes of what appears to be former guests in the same room
they're staying in being brutally beaten and murdered by masked men.
Discovering that they are being videotaped at all times by numerous
hidden cameras in the room, the couple try to escape, but find the
outside area of the motel being patrolled by those mysterious men on
the video who refuse to let them leave. It turns out this entire
building is a trap set by some very deranged individuals who murder any
guest unfortunate enough to check in, and videotape the results for
their own twisted amusement.

With a running time that barely manages to hit 80 minutes, Vacancy is
tightly edited and tightly paced. Not a second is wasted as the movie
dives head-first into its genuinely creepy premise. There are a number
of scenes that are bound the raise the tension of all but the most
jaded of horror buffs. The brief glimpses that we see of the crudely
made murder videos are terrifying without being exploitive, as the
movie is wise not to linger too long on the images. The tension is
built up even more when creepy and mysterious stuff starts happening.
There's a very loud banging on the door of the motel room, and even on
the walls from the room next door. The power starts flickering on and
off at random, and it's obvious that someone or something is messing
with them. It's when the mysterious men start popping up and chasing
our heroes that the movie stops being frightening and intriguing, and
simply turns into a generic slasher film. (Albeit a slasher film with
better production and acting values than the norm.) The men lurk about
in the dark just outside the motel room, pop up in front of windows
suddenly, and really don't do a whole heck of a lot. It's a bit of a
let down after such a generally creepy set up.

Filmmaker Nimrod Antal has a strong look and an obvious eye for
creeping out his audience, but he seems to run out of ideas once his
characters start running away. That doesn't mean he doesn't do what he
can with the material. He makes the most of his limited setting,
managing to find ways to avoid making the movie come across as being
repetitive. He stages some sequences in a large variety of places
around the motel, as well as a complex series of tunnels underneath the
building that the villains use to get around. He is further aided by a
game cast that help lift the material up a little bit from the B-grade
junk it obviously is. Mainly known for his comedic work, Luke Wilson
makes for a pretty decent everyman in the male lead. He seems genuinely
unnerved as the realization of just how bad the situation is slowly
dawns on him. As his wife, Kate Beckinsale is given slightly less to do
until the final 10 minutes or so when she is forced to take control and
fight for both of their survival. Until then, she mostly switches back
and forth from being bitchy and irritable to being weepy and fearful.
As the head of the whole shady motel operation, Frank Whaley is
appropriately slimy, but much like the other villains, he is given very
little to do once his role in the plot is revealed.

Vacancy has no notions of being anything but what it is - a somewhat
enjoyable little piece of horror escapism that hits some good notes,
but is far too slight and forgettable to leave much of an impression.
It's not bad, but it is disappointing after a fairly strong opening
half hour that hints at much more. The movie is brisk and well-made, at
the very least. Still, I can't get over the notion that perhaps the
film does it's job a bit too well at setting up an ominous atmosphere
at the motel. I don't think anyone would be able to set foot there
without expecting murderous masked madmen lurking about somewhere
nearby. If you're trying to lure people into a death trap, I would
suggest maybe using a somewhat more cheerful facade. Might attract more
business. Couldn't hurt is all I'm saying.
<|_=00=_|>
The theater was packed more so than usual and why not as Vacancy was a
very entertaining thrillride.Kate Beckinsale is great in her first
Horror film and Luke Wilson is great in pretty much his first serious
role as these two squabbling spouses can feed off of each others
talent.Remember when we had nothing but slasher movies being
intentionally funny, you know the days where Jason X, Wrong Turn,
Scream, Freddy vs Jason, and I Know What You Did Last Summer well that
is slowly coming to an end as Vacancy aligns itself with Saw, Texas
Chainsaw Massacre, and The Hills Have Eyes as a great serious slasher
that doesn't have ridiculous humour or one liners.Vacancy has a simple
enough storyline that has indeed been done before but the best thing
about it is that unlike so many other slasher movies this one has a lot
of character development as these characters aren't the typical
teenager or cop whose name you don't remember or care about you know
damn well who the Fox couple is, why they're having problems, and you
end up rooting for them to survive.To say Vacancy is scary is a bit of
a stretch but to say Vacancy is a great thriller would be about
accurate.The storyline progresses at a fast pace but none of it is half
@$$ed or out of nowhere everything makes sense in the end.Vacanc's
pacing gets you're adrenaline pumping in the same way that any good
quality thriller does.Vacancy has has a much more realistic and
believable story as you know full well these killers are everyday
people they aren't a monstrous man with a flesh disease like in Texas
Chainsaw or House Of Wax and it's not some campy undead serial killer
like Freddy Krueger or Jason Vorhees.I think what added to the effect
of the creepy atmosphere was having pretty much the whole film take
place at night as it really gave you a cold feeling that something was
lurking out their.Again my only complaints are that the dialogue is
sometimes not well delivered, the plot is at times over the top, and it
borrows a lot of elements from Psycho and Saw.

The Good -Overall good acting -Doesn't rely solely on gore or jump
scares -Good amount of character development -Excellent pace that keeps
the adrenaline pumping

The Bad -Some bad line delivery -Plot tends to get a little over the
top -Various horror clich√©s eg. the car breaks down
<|_=00=_|>
Vacancy has Alfred Hitchcock's finger prints smeared all over it, in
fact at several times, especially the quite nifty looking opening
credits, seems a lot like a homage to the great horror maestro himself.
Its true, that even many years after Hitchcok finished making movies,
that his movie still stay in memory for longer than most of the recent
Hollywood horror that has arrived. The Birds and Psycho are far more
memorable than the House of Wax remake or The Reaping. Hitchcock's
movies worked because he had great characterisation and also a great
sense of atmosphere, you could sit and watch a Hitchcock movie and be
terrified for half an hour before anything scary actually happens. The
sense of foreboding and incredibly skilfully done atmosphere did that
to an audience. Nowadays we get cheap jump out of your seat scares and
torture scenes designed to sicken. Initially my thoughts towards seeing
Vacancy were not great, the trailer looked alright, but my guess was it
would just be another lame, modern slasher flick. So what a great
surprise to say that Vacancy is a good little movie that actually has
some genuine scares in it. The movie isn't gory, nor is it jumpy, the
movie is unsettling and creepy. Now this is what a true horror movie
should do in my eyes, if a movie can unsettle without resorting to jump
scares then it is a success. Vacncay pulls this off, well it pulls this
off for a majority of the time. The movie is an absolute success until
the ending, at the ending it seems to flounder a bit and leaves a
bitter taste in the mouth. But everything up until the ending is a joy
to watch.

What surprised me most about Vacancy has to be the actual acting. When
I saw the trailer and saw that Kate Beckinsale and Luke Wilson were the
leading couple I nearly burst out laughing. For starters Luke Wilson is
a comedy man, he's designed to make funny movies. Well when I say funny
movies I mean if he has the right material as just recently I've found
him as unfunny as can be. Kate Beckinsale just doesn't seem the type to
be in a horror movie. But its this bizarre casting that pays off so
well. Luke Wilson really proves himself in this movie, to the extent I
want him to focus more on a serious acting career, he seems to be more
at home here than he has in years with his comedy movies. Kate
Beckinsale also proves herself admirably. The pair are believable, and
you actually start to care for them. Wishing that they will escape the
nightmare, hoping that they find a way out. Their performances are so
much different from the usual stupid teenagers we see in horror movies
today, its refreshing to see adults in this horrific situation. The
villains of the movie are also quite menacing for the majority of the
time, the hotel manager played by Frank Whaley is a good character.
He's not on screen too often, but he does play a creepy little man very
well.

So what of the scares then? Well as I've said the movie is at times
pretty scary. Not for the first twenty minutes mind you, that is
dedicated for set up and too increase the atmosphere. Those scenes work
very well and once again its refreshing to see genuine character
development in a horror movie, made better by the fact the two leads
are great. However, the minute the couple enter the hotel room the
focus shifts. Bangings on the wall and doors begin, the phone rings
with nobody on the other end. From that point onwards the movie gets
terrifying, the bangings on the wall really starts to creep you out at
one point. Once the big bad secret about the motel is discovered, after
watching some tapes, and the lights suddenly go out. The movie succeeds
in terrifying. After the lights go out I guarantee you will be sitting
on the edge of your seats. The movie does a couple of jump scares here
and there, but it focuses mainly on the unseen terror. The minute the
bangings stopped you aren't relieved, you're even more terrified
because then you don't know what the people are up to. Its this sense
of terror that makes the movie worthy of a recommendation. Its nice to
see a horror movie try scaring and unsettling the audience once in a
while. Its nothing a hardcore horror fan can't handle, but it
definitely will unsettle the general population of people.

As I've said the movie isn't perfect. The ending being the major
setback of the movie. After the brilliant set up, and the scary middle
section, the ending seems to run out of steam. In fact it seemed like
the writers wasn't sure what to do anymore and did a few obvious things
and quickly ended the movie. It feels rushes and unlike the rest of the
movie, unskillfully made. Its the ending that fails in making this a
complete homage to Hitchcock, Hitchcock could deliver an ending, this
movie doesn't really get an ending. The ending is enough to leave you
satisfied, but in a movie that exceeds all expectations you expect more
from the ending.

Vacancy is a good old fashioned horror/thriller. Its only let down by
its pretty disappointing ending. The run time is pretty short, making
the experience short and sharp enough to pack a real punch. Its really
worth checking out just for the brilliant set up and middle section.
But the ending really does make the movie suffer a little bit. Still
this is definitely a good horror movie, and more horror movies made in
this style would be a welcome relief.
<|_=00=_|>
"Vacancy" is a suspenseful horror shocker that follows a young
disputing couple on their way home from an anniversary party, Amy and
David Fox (Kate Beckinsale and Luke Wilson), who have just recently
lost a child and are about to enter a divorce. The bickering couple end
up stranded outside a small service station in the middle of nowhere,
and decide to to check into the Pinewood motel, a cheap little place
for them to spend the night until they can get help the next morning.
The quirky desk clerk gives them their room, and they find it to be a
complete dump. But their dingy motel room is the least of their
problems, when they find videotapes of homemade snuff movies where
previous guests were filmed as they were brutally murdered. With a team
of masked killers surrounding the entire motel, and every area under
surveillance, Amy and David find themselves in a life-or-death struggle
as they try and survive through the night.

If the plot summary for this movie sounds like something that interests
you, you will more than likely enjoy this suspenseful horror flick. I
went into "Vacancy" with pretty average expectations - I wasn't that
wild about this movie when I'd first heard about it, but it sounded
interesting enough so I decided to give it a try, and I'm glad I did.
Unlike the vast majority of the horror junk that gets released lately,
this film actually boasts an original and solidly-constructed premise.
Take some elements from Hitchock's "Psycho" (was it just me, or were
those opening credits played over with the Bernard Herrman-like score a
direct reference to Hitchcock?), throw in some aspects from the "Saw"
series, and tie things together in a tense little package, and you get
"Vacancy". I was literally on the edge of my seat throughout almost the
entire film, and found not one dull moment. Suspense and tension are
the real kickers in this movie, and it is done very well. Lots of moody
camera angles and some genuinely frightening sequences (take the
underground cave scenes for example) add to the tense nature.

Our lead performers are Beckinsale and Wilson, both of whom turn in
some great performances. Wilson plays the "husband hero" and Beckinsale
is the "damsel in distress-gone fighting machine", and both capture
this effectively. Their acting is believable, and I think that the
writing has something to do with it as well, because their characters
are written really well. They're not your typical genre morons who drop
to the floor when the killer approaches, they are much more real. They
make good decisions and the right moves, which makes them much more
credible and realistic, winning over the audiences sympathy rather
easily. There were some heart-pumping fight sequences as well between
the heroes and the villains, which were well executed and had you
rooting for Beckinsale and Wilson. The ending was a little uneven I
have to admit, but compared to the tense hour and twenty-five minutes
before it, it doesn't come close to bringing the movie down.

Overall, "Vacancy" is an original horror flick that is heavy on
suspense, while not so heavy on bloodshed. The claustrophobic
atmosphere and the tense build up in this movie is it's real charm, and
it will have you on the edge of your seat, anxious to see what will
happen next. It's the way a thriller should be done, and makes for an
enjoyable late-night fright fest. Exceeded my expectations and went
beyond. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Vacancy;; Vacancy opens as a typical horror film, following a soon to
be divorced couple, Amy and David Fox, driving down a winding road, in
the middle of nowhere in the middle of the night. Car troubles lead
them to an abandoned motel where the manager informs them the mechanic
will be back early in the morning. He seems friendly at first, and
offers them a discount on the Honeymoon suite. Amy is resistant, but
David convinces her.

Amy's first impression of the Motel was right on target, as a series of
creepy events lead David and Amy to watch a video tape in which various
guests at the same hotel are murdered. Soon after, David finds hidden
cameras in the vents. Suddenly, the lights go out, and David and Amy
must fight to find a way to escape... or end up getting slaughtered on
tape like everyone else.

I am an avid horror movie fan, although lately I have run into the
problem of not getting scared during these so called "scary movies." I
am pleased to report, not just to horror film fans, but movie fans
alike, Vacancy is actually scary. And that is just about the biggest
compliment a movie such as this could get.

Throughout the 80 minute running time of Vacancy, I jumped a few times,
gasped once or twice, and had white knuckles for almost the entire
time. Luke Wilson and Kate Bekinsale give good performances as the
bickering victims, and direction is particularly well-done. Director
Nimrod Antal makes a wise choice, veering from torture, blood and guts,
and relying mostly on putting these characters we care about in taut,
tense situations.

Vacancy is a fun, frightening horror movie. 3 from 4.
<|_=00=_|>
Vacancy is a shot of thriller mix with a shot of horror served straight
up,no ice, in room temperature. A great great movie for this type of
genre OBVIOUSLY not for everyone, but if you are a fan and feel a
little down about many other so called horror, thriller movies that are
simply S*@T, movies that are relying on fancy special effects or
remakes of other films from the past or different country LATELY, well,
this would be the one movie you won't feel crappy paying full price
for. 

Luke Wilson and Kate Beckensale ( perfect cast ) play a couple who
check into a motel after a long drive,the rest is an intense ride That
will glue you eyes to the screen.I see the movie as a tribute to the
70's thriller/horror/action ( home invasion, psychotic killer type of
films )You can see this right from the opening credits. There are
moments where Vacancy could go bad and disappointing ( I was actually
waiting for it )but it did not ( a bit on the ending being clich√©, but
I was OK to give it a pass ).WELL DIRECTED, WELL CAST, AND WELL SHOT.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, the theater was full of people that loved it! I had the luck to
watch this at the theaters. in a really early screening, here in
Israel.

Where "Disturbia" microwaved elements of "Rear Window," the terse,
relentless "Vacancy" borrows more sparingly from "Psycho," which also
was set in a seedy West Coast motel where guests have a tendency to
never check out.

"Vacancy" sneaks into your brain from the get-go by skillfully
exploiting several elements: the urban myth about the couple that
watches some porn in a fleabag motel and suddenly realizes they are the
porn stars, the paranoia of characters who think they're being watched
(and they're right, since we are watching them) and our awareness of
previous movies with similar mayhem.

Specifically, I'm talking about "Psycho," which "Vacancy" nods to in
ways both small (the stuffed birds that appear everywhere, the use of
mirrors, the look- and sound-alike opening credits) and large (the
stalking of motel-bound characters, which relies less on gore than on
mounting, claustrophobic suspense).

Casting Luke Wilson and Kate Beckinsale in the lead roles is the first
sign that "Vacancy" is smarter than the average horror movie. They're
terrific as a bickering couple who get stranded in a dump where the
night manager (Frank Whaley) might as well greet them with, "Good
evening. I hope your room will prove satisfactory until I get around to
snuffing you out and videotaping it." We know just enough about the
couple to root for them as they're stalked by masked maniacs, but what
drives "Vacancy" is its ingenious premise, from which director Nimrod
Antal - who made the fine Hungarian thriller "Kontroll" ("Control") -
wrings every ounce of tension. "Control" is a good word for him. Antal
has done a clever job of imagining the story in visual terms, right
down to the way he frames the unlucky road trippers. Early on, as they
snipe at each other, they're always separated by something (a wall, a
mirror), even when they're together. But adversity forces them to
cooperate, and, in the final scenes, the camera offers us some hope: At
last, these Bickersons are depicted together in the frame, fighting for
their lives.
<|_=00=_|>
They don't make you feel stupid, they give you something that seems
real. There isn't any sugar coating, no senseless nudity, just a
claustrophobic atmosphere and tense build up that will have you on the
edge of your seat, anxious to see what will happen next. It's the way a
movie should be done, and makes for a satisfying late fright night.

A thrilling horror shocker that follows a quarreling married couple,
David and Amy Fox (Luke Wilson and Kate Beckinsale) that end up
breaking down in the middle of nowhere and have to walk a few miles to
a gas station/motel. The strange and creepy manager gives them the
"honeymoon suite." The room is, of course, the worst motel room you
will ever see, cockroaches, no TV channels come in, etc. With nothing
to do, David begins watching the videotapes(snuff films) in the room.
They both begin to discover that the films are real and were filmed in
their room. They find themselves in a life or death situation and try
everything possible to survive the night. If you liked the trailer and
the synopsis or any of the actors, you will definitely find that you
like this movie. When I first saw a trailer for the movie, I thought it
looked good, but was a little hesitant because of the way that horror
movies are made today (gore and bore). This film has a very good plot
and is solid in structure. Even though you do not get the full back
story of the characters, you get their painful story through the
excellent writing. In the beginning, you don't quite get why they fight
or seem to "hate" each other, but it doesn't take long to understand
(maybe 15 minutes counting the beginning montage of credits). I was
literally on the edge of my seat throughout almost the entire film, and
found not one dull moment. Suspense and tension are the real deal in
this movie, and it is done incredibly well. Lots of excellent camera
angles and authentic startling sequences add to the tense nature of the
film. The characters seem very genuine and real, the relationship
between the main two characters is portrayed extremely well. Wilson and
Beckinsale come off as a real couple with a history. Their acting is
extremely believable, and the writing of the characters is done
extremely well. Another great thing is that they aren't your typical
brainless genre characters who get naked and drop to the floor when the
killer approaches, they are much more real. They do everything that you
expect that you would do if you were in their situation. They make good
decisions, which make them much more realistic, winning sympathy rather
easily. There are heart-pumping fight sequences, which were well
executed and will make you cross your fingers for Beckinsale and
Wilson. There are also tender moments that will add to your root for
them. By the end you will want them to stick it to that manager for
everything he's done and for a reconciliation between the two main
characters. I enjoyed it ten fold, but you'll have to watch it to see
whether they make it in the end. 

Overall, Vacancy is an original psychological thriller that is heavy on
suspense, while not so heavy on bloodshed.

The movie does contain a far amount of vulgar language. I would
recommend this movie. Your missing out if you don't see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Supposedly their actual existence is debatable, but snuff films could
be reduced to urban legend status. Still, this world has some dark
corners, so I wouldn't put it out of mind completely. Nevertheless, the
idea of people getting pleasure from filming live murders and torture
is frightening. However, as much as it could be, 'Vacancy' is not.

The idea for this film is not fully realized and instead it's reduced
to a cat and mouse chase that becomes all to predictable. Beyond the
initial viewing of the snuff tapes (left intentionally in the room by
the manager), which is probably the film's most intense scene, the
couple runs from room to room as they attempt to get away, which the
film makes too easy for them at times.

The real issue lies with the lack of details in the workings of the
villains and motel. It appears we have three men who do nothing more
than check people into a room and kill them soon after. They do very
little to toy with their minds. No mystery about the villains exists.
The hotel manager is the only one afforded any time for development and
it is all far too superficial. What is needed is some more for the
villains to do. I doubt that after doing this for as long as they have,
their methods would be as primitive and mundane as displayed here.

The always beautiful Beckinsale and seemingly aloof Wilson, who manages
to sidestep his usual goof-ball role, do what they can with what they
are given. Aside from an opening scene where they lay out the status of
their marriage, they are given very little time for further
development--outside of the typical "I love you now that we have been
through something awful." All in all, a very mediocre film that could
have been so much more with a reworking. Also, if you do see this film,
see if you can spot the moment when the script writers had no other
ideas on where to go next. It's obvious.
