
This is such a poor movie, it is unbelievable. Especially considering
it has such a solid actor like Al Pacino. Fans of his will wish they
never saw it.

Al plays the role of a psychologist consultant for the police who is
also a teacher of forensic psychology. The movie starts the day a
serial killer who was convicted based on his testimony is about to
executed. But it is a bad day for Al's character because there is new
evidence that suggests he helped convict the wrong man. Oh, not only
that, but he receives an anonymous phone call telling him he has 88
minutes to live.

Al Pacino plays a hardcore guy in most of his films, that is usually
what makes them great. It seems like they tried to do the same thing
with this movie and accomplished the opposite. His character is
surrounded by bimbo 20-year-olds throwing themselves at him and guys
with leather jackets for him to beat up. But it just ends up feeling
like a desperate attempt to prove he "still has it." The only thing
floating this movie is a gimmick for a plot (the whole 88 minutes to
live thing) which sort of ends of being a subplot anyway. Al Pacino
fans are going to hate me for saying all this until they see it for
themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
I will not discuss any of the plot point of the film, as I do not wish
to spoil any "surprises", but I will say that it's a sad state of
affairs that a movie of this caliber is considered even nearly good.
The characters are one dimensional, the plot trodding on
all-too-familiar themes, and the acting is abysmal. Al Pacino, who used
to be a fine actor, sleep walks his way through this movie and delivers
the exact same performance as he did in "Two For The Money",
"Insomnia", "People I Know" and "Simone" (I will admit I liked him in
"Merchant of Venice"). This movie is not superb...it's not even good.
Al, this is a wake up call to please return to the realm of acting
instead of collecting the first paycheck that comes your way.
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino is one of those few actors whose career is so decorated and
quality that you literally would see the biggest piece of crap in the
world just to see what he would do in it. Over the years I've watched
boring (Simone), long and preachy (Angels in America), and just bad
(Oceans Thirteen, Two For the Money) movies primarily because he's the
Godfather, Lt. Frank Slade, Serpico, and Scarface to me and he always
will be. He embodies greatness and respectability, even in crap, and so
I keep going back. 88 Minutes is not crap though, it's less than crap.
It's amateur night at the script-o-rama. 

Pacino plays Dr. Jack Gramm, a college professor who also works with
the FBI as a forensic psychiatrist. When he receives a phone call
telling him he only has 88 minutes to live, he must use his powers of
analysis to save his own life. One possible suspect is Jon Forster
(Neal McDonough), a serial killer who feels Jack manipulated the jury
into sending him to death row. In addition, he also includes a woman he
had a one-night stand with and a disgruntled student he slighted into
his investigation. 

The script by Garry Scott Thompson is embarrassingly, abysmally awful.
It's so startlingly, unconscionably bad that after the first couple
scenes, I was fascinated with the depths it was willing to sink too.
Start with the tasteless opening scene. A woman is hung by her legs
while a man cuts and rapes her. It's an appalling and uncomfortable
thing to watch and above all it's not even necessary to show it. Moving
on, the Pacino character meets with the D.A investigating the Jon
Forster case in the next scene. It should be intense but the
introduction of milk and cookies kills the momentum almost immediately. 

The movie is a mess with background characters, all of which are
underdeveloped and made to look like suspects. I understand the concept
of adding red-herrings but when everyone from Jack's students to the
campus security guard seem to be hiding something, it just gets absurd.
And why does the killer try to kill Jack by blowing up his car and
shooting at him before the 88 minutes are up? And why does Jack, a
Forensic Psychologist, seem so skilled in handling a gun and acting
like a cop? And what exactly is the killer trying to do here, frame
Jack for murder by planting evidence or actually kill him? And why does
Jack's teaching assistant (Alicia Witt) feel the need to bring up
wanting a relationship with him right in the middle of them running for
their lives? And why do we constantly need to be reminded of the death
of Jack's sister by constantly flashing back to a little girl running
on a beach. And of all the names you could have picked, why on Earth
would you name a character Guy LaForge. This screenplay is just
inconsistent and nothing is credible, even the initial threat is
laughable in its execution And if you think you've already reached your
ridiculous quota, just wait for the ending. It's an out-of-the-park
homerun as far as retarded goes. 

I was going to review the acting but since this is running longer than
I expected, I just want to say that Pacino sleeps through the role and
gets his paycheck and Leelee Sobieski is one of the cheesiest and
phoniest people I've ever seen act. She should be acting in "Ogre 2" on
the sci-fi channel, not anywhere near Al Pacino. "88 Minutes" is a
movie of stunning badness. I found it hard to even keep track of all
the ridiculous things that happen in it. It's still early but I would
be surprised if I saw a worse movie this year.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually had pretty low expectations for '88 minutes' since Al
Pacino's parts in 'two for the money' and 'ocean's 13', for instance,
didn't exactly impress me, but it turned out I had more good things
than bad things to say about this film after watching it.

In '88 minutes' Al Pacino plays Dr. Jack Gramm, a forensic psychiatrist
known for handling cases of serial killers. This time, a convicted
psycopath is hours away from his death and raises doubts on Jack's
veredict on him, claiming he's innocent, and Jack receives a call
warning him he has 88 minutes to live.

In the first place, the initial scene is absolutely unnecessary and
predisposed me into thinking the film was going to be a huge mistake,
where Al would be behaving like a young man, which is kind of
ridiculous at his age. But it wasn't so; it was an isolated scene.

The plot is well built, coherent, and there are no unbelievable facts
in it. The atmosphere around the time fading until Jack's death is
overwhelming; there isn't a moment in which the viewer won't be
excited, waiting for the next move.

Al's acting isn't special; at times I felt like he was numb,
sleep-walking, with no reactions whatsoever, but his acting does get
better throughout the film, as the suspense gets more intense Â– the
interesting part is he does show that old energy from his classic films
every now and then.

What really doesn't do it for me, actually, is that, lately it seems
that, with very few exceptions, Al's characters not only have pretty
much the same personality, but the same looks. He's always tan and
wearing black, even in real life ! It sucks because to me, one of the
greatest things about Al is his great capacity in characterization. He
gets deep into every little detail in his parts, which is why each
character looks and acts so different from one another. It seems like
that's been lost lately.

Overall '88 minutes' is a good thriller, but I'd recommend it mostly
for Pacino fans.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie uses time to create some urgency and a fairly fast pace to
keep interest. These devices are used effectively so that combined with
Al Pacino and a decent script we have an interesting thriller.

The story is a bit extreme, but the pace really did help me not to
question that (too much) in the final analysis. The character played by
Al Pacino is unsympathetic even though he harbors a terrible past that
haunts him. That changes as everything falls apart around him in just
over an hour. His struggle to find a killer that he believes will kill
him, as well as others, overshadows his obnoxious ego. Has he met his
match? Does he have some moral issues that either way are going to be
his downfall? It makes for a pretty interesting plot.

This isn't the best psychological thriller...but, it's respectable
enough to warrant a solid 6 and that is due to Al Pacino largely.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite all of the horrific reviews it has received, I went into this
film expecting a flawed but entertaining thriller. Nothing could have
prepared me for the disaster this film is. The premise is pretty
simple; forensic psychologist Jack Gramm (Al Pacino) receives a call
saying that he has 88 minutes to live on the day that one of the men he
put in jail is sentenced to die. This sloppy, horribly put together
plot unfolds onward with bomb threats, exploding cars and suspicious
characters every which way and it's one of the most ridiculous things
I've ever seen. The story is just ludicrous containing so many
contrived details that I had to fight back the urge to bust into severe
laughter. There's an ex-boyfriend that ultimately has nothing to do
with the plot, sexual 'tension' with every single woman on screen and
for some reason there are a bounty of young, immensely attractive
females who want to bang Al Pacino even though he honestly looks like
he's about to fall into his coffin throughout the entire film. And
Leelee Sobieski gives what may just be the worst performance I've ever
seen. Just terrible. Oh, and the twist? You know those thrillers where
killers have sincere motives? Yeah, this isn't one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino has been a great actor. Maybe the best of his generation, but
when was it? Watching 88 Minutes I kept wondering why he was unable to
close his mouth. Well, he seems to have problems to use his jaw muscles
to just "close his mouth". And when he tries to run or jump stairs,
what we see is just an old man limping badly. Worst of all, he is no
more able to act with any credibility. He tries to look young and full
of life, but really looks like an rippled alcoholic. But the worst is,
of course, the movie itself. Inane plot ("You'll die in 88 minutes but
I will try to kill you before..."), bad cinematography (have you
noticed how many phone calls there is in this movie? 30? 40?), filming
clichÃ©s (everytime there is a car trip, the car is filmed from above.
How original!). And Pacino is surrounded by very pretty (and young)
girls who are in love with him. How pathetic. If you really like the
"real" Al Pacino, don't even think to watch this film. You might be
pushed to think that extraterrestrials have replaced him with a bad
copy.
<|_=00=_|>
I think that what people read our reviews is to find out whether or not
the movie is worth the time or whether they should watch it so lets cut
the crappy "I need attention" reviews okay... Yeah its worth the
watch... it was fun and suspenseful to some people. Bottom line here is
that it will not bore you. Have time on your hands? Need to watch a
movie you haven't seen? then just got for it. You will not be blown
away but you will be entertained for the hour and 42 minutes it runs.

I mean truly, its a movie... Heres how I seen it, Did the movie
entertain you through the time? yes. Was a bit predictable? yes. Did it
at least attempt to come up with a good plot twist? Yes! I mean this is
not Pacino's best, but a decent watch none the less. I may not watch
this twice on my own but if a friend didn't see it, I'd watch it with
them. This isn't being soft on the movie either, it's being
realistic... It had a plot, wasn't in my worst top 10, though it wasn't
in my best but truly, it wasn't as painful as most threatened. Yeah we
all wish that we can see another God Father or Scarface but less we
forget, Pacino's an amazing actor, NOT in any way shape or form A
producer/ Writer. He played his character well but some feel the script
could've been made a little batter or not at all... Sorry to say I
think this had a better twist then Righteous Kill. The bad scripts are
still scripts none the less, if anyone thinks they can do/ write that
much better then maybe you should bring your ingenious script writing
to Hollywood, till then, we will watch what we have. Not so bad of a
movie OK, worth the watch in my honest opinion, please feel free to
respond!
<|_=00=_|>
Hard to believe an actor of Pacino's stature could end up starring in
this mess! The "plot" barely makes sense, and the roster of suspects
makes it obvious right off the bat who the "mystery psycho" will turn
out to be. Pacino is a Professor of "Forensic Psychiatry" (a specialty
of dubious believability at best) who apparently works at a University
with only one finished building where every student takes his class,
and they all park in the same garage. Set in rainy Seattle, the biggest
mystery here is why it is pouring on Pacino's speeding taxi, but once
it rounds a corner an exterior shot shows a sunny day complete with
pedestrians apparently staring and pointing at the film crew. Another
head scratcher involves Pacino's ever changing hair length, style, and
color all during an 88 minute period--guess he made a few stops at
Supercuts in the midst of solving his own murder.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me say this straight. This movie is such a calamity, so bad, so
dysfunctional, that I'm still wondering what went through those people
minds? 

In my opinion, the last scene reflects what this nonsense is all about.
Al Pacino, running and acting like a grandpa who is trying to look like
a forty-year old, which ends of course into a total cinematographic
tragedy. Worse than that, I'm truly convinced that he is aware of his
pathetic appearance in this fragile movie and asks himself throughout
the entire shooting "what the hell am I doing here?"

And if this was not bad enough, what is he doing out there staring with
young actors that seem to come directly from one of those teenager
horror B movies? Pacino seems completely uninterested, his dialogues
and general acting deprived of the slightest intensity or wit. The last
scene manages to bring all this sad spectacle together and, if we add
the boring plot and especially the amateur editing, than I would
suggest that we are in the presence of one of the worst movies ever.

Save your money and your nerves.
