
What differentiates "The Cave" from other horror films is the setting.
The plot takes place mostly in a large cave, some of which is
underwater.

By far, the best element of this film is the underground scenery. The
sets are realistic, with spaces and formations that one might see in
certain large caverns. And, the film nicely conveys a sense of vertical
scale, as we watch cavers climb rock walls, and explore huge rooms with
towering ceilings.

The problem here is that the film's director is so committed to an
action plot that the camera rarely stays in one scene long enough for
the viewer to have a sense of place. We thus forgo the thrill that an
underground environment could provide. There's no feeling of amazement,
no claustrophobia from tight crawlways, no real fear of any kind. The
film's fast pace, combined with characters we barely know and care
nothing about, thus dilutes the intended suspense.

The cinematography is flashy and very technical. The lighting is
appropriately subdued with interesting colors and unusual camera
angles. The background music is somewhat intrusive. Dialogue is weak.
And the actors, who appear to be in their twenties, are all photogenic,
straight out of central casting. The monsters, what we see of them,
seem slightly hokey.

Overall, "The Cave" will appeal to viewers who like horror films set in
unusual environments, wherein the pace is super fast, and there is a
ton of action. Viewers looking for a credible story will need to exit
the cave ... quickly.
<|_=00=_|>
30 years ago a group of explorers entered an immense cave system under
a church in Romania. The church caved in and the explorers were
trapped, never to be heard from again. Flash forward to present day,
where a geological expedition comes across the mouth of the cave. They
call in an experienced group of cavers to map the place out, but an
underwater passage way collapses, sealing them over a mile underground
with no hope of being rescued. They begin searching for a way out, only
to come to the realization that they aren't alone; not only are there
bizarre, undiscovered creatures, but also the group of explorers from
three decades ago, who are no longer quite humanÂ… I just got back from
seeing this in a near-midnight show. There were a total of 9 other
people in the theatre, not a good sign really, and combined with the
almost exclusively rotten IMDb reviews I wondered if I'd made a
mistake. Deciding not to waste my eight bucks and ride the film out, I
actually enjoyed what this flick had to offer: A claustrophobic
atmosphere, stunning photography, plenty of action, cool monsters and
nifty special effects. This is the directional debut of Bruce Hunt, a
former second-unit director on the Matrix films and 1998's "Dark City".
While he handles some of the dialogue scenes awkwardly, he certainly
knows how to make the film LOOK good. Man, this flick is GORGEOUS! Not
only are the cave sets great (fantastic production values on this one)
but their lit perfectly (and surprisingly realistically). Kudos to
cinematographer Ross Emery for giving this flick the visual kick it
needed. As for the actors, just about everyone here does well,
especially Cole Hauser and Morris Chestnut. The only weak actor here is
Piper Perabo. Sure, she's pretty, but she really, really needs to
develop some ACTING skills. Then there are the creatures. We never get
a lingering look at them, but they are COOL. I'm glad the creatures
were mostly created with puppets and prosthetic instead of CG (what
little CG there is was mostly limited to shots of the creatures
flying), it was a wise move by the filmmakers. Effects artist Patrick
Tatopoulos, who also handled the creatures in "Independence Day",
"Pitch Black" and "Underworld", has done a great job as usual. Some
people have called Tatopoulos the next Stan Winston, and based on the
work he's done so far in his career, this very much might be true. Also
worth noting is the score by Reinhold Heil and Johnny Klimek, which,
though often low-key, is pulse-pounding and exciting and keeps the
action flowing nicely. The ending is your typical twisted horror
ending, but hey, it works anyways.

Is "The Cave" a masterpiece of modern film-making? No. Would it have
been better if it had had an R rating and more gore? Most certainly.
Still, this summer creature feature is more entertaining than I
expected it to be, I came in praying I might get at least a LITTLE
enjoyment out of it and in the end I got more than I expected to.
Enjoy!

6.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie expecting just your average creature feature
akin to Pitch Black, and I wasn't let down. It is, indeed, just your
average creature feature. It's not the next best thing to Aliens, but
it's not the travesty most reviewers here are making it out to be
either.

The Cave is a fun popcorn flick. There's no really deep plot or amazing
acting talent. What this movie does have is a few very intense,
suspenseful moments, which is only aided by the very dark and
claustrophobic atmosphere of the cave. It also has your average
thriller twist at the end which I did not see coming.

The cinematography and directing by first-timer Bruce Hunt is
surprisingly well done. His background as assistance director for the
Matrix films and Dark City is apparent here. While he's no Spielberg or
Cameron, he keeps the camera angles interesting, and there are scenes
within vast, tall rooms in the cave that are quite breathtaking. One
complaint, however, is that he chose to follow other directors mistakes
in jarring the camera in a very frenetic and sickening manner back and
forth whenever one of the characters is being attacked by the creature.
This is not only very annoying and disorienting, but is IMO just a
trick to cover up the poor creature fx.

Speaking of the FX, I have to say I'm 50/50 here. Sometimes they looked
good, and sometimes they looked like they were from a Sci-Fi Channel
original movie. The creature effects that looked good were the
closeups, which utilized real models. These looked quite realistic. But
far away shots of the CGI creatures are not so impressive.

If you want to sit down on a Friday night and just have fun, then pick
up The Cave.
<|_=00=_|>
This wasn't a bad movie if you like creature flicks. It isn't original,
but it does nothing badly and is interesting enough to spend 1.5 hours
with.

Firstly: why is it that the entire team consists of hunks and babes?
Even the scientists are good looking chicks. Oh well, we'll just have
to suspend our thinking and just accept that actors have to be good
looking these days, even if their roles completely rule out looking
like a supermodel.

As for the movie itself: the action, plot (if there is any to speak
of), effects and direction are OK, as is the acting.. Once again,
nothing special, novel or interesting but not bad either. The editing
was decent except for the action shots. Why does every editor and/or
director think that they are doing an MTV clip these days? Keep the
camera still! If you think I can see what's going on in random .3
second bursts of film, you're wrong. So irritating.

The effects are OK. Although at times the caves are lit in ways that
are impossible for the little flashlights to accomplish, the set is
generally dark enough to be realistic. The caves look real. The
monsters are not that good but they are almost never shown completely,
and in doing so they are acceptable. I do wish the movie had more gore
though. Being, as almost all horror movies these days, PG-13 to cash in
on teenage kids' money, it does not show any gore besides some
scratches and some ugly but very brief ceature shots.

Final comment: I wish the movie had revolved around the first cave
expedition that is shown during the introduction titles. They seemed a
hell of a lot more interesting than that group of supermodels who came
in later. Real men, real people, driven by greed. Oh well.

Decent action, decent thrills. Not bad to kill some time with.
<|_=00=_|>
The opening sequence with a group of men breaking into an old monastery
is wonderful. Weird forms in the walls and floors promise that the
place has been guarding some terrible secret. Unfortunately an
avalanche/earthquake destroys the building and send the men into a deep
dark cave where there are monsters. Some years later the ruins are
being excavated and the cave is discovered. Its so big that there might
be something there, especially since there appears to be a river of
some sort that runs a hundred miles underground. A team of specialists
is brought in and soon everyone is trapped underground and underwater,
including the beasts.

For the early portion of this movie I was a bit confused by the
critical drubbing that this movie took. Sure it wasn't the best movie
ever, but it wasn't that bad. Unfortunately as time went on I began to
get very lost, I got to the point where I wasn't sure what I was
seeing. The problem is that the film is very dark and its often filmed
in tight shots that re-enforce the claustrophobic nature of where the
cast is suppose to be. Worse everyone in the cast blends together so
once everyone got underground and in similar wet suits I had no idea
who anyone was except there was a blonde girl, a brunette girl, an old
guy, a black guy, a Japanese guy, and a bunch of white guys. The
combination of the dark confused camera work with the clone like cast
had me rapidly lose interest because I had no idea what was going on or
who anyone was. I got to the point where I stopped caring. To be honest
I got lost as to what was going on and stuck with it just to see the
monsters.

Its a shame the film making isn't better or more coherent since the
monsters are mostly quite good. These beasts are what makes the movie
worth seeing. Sure there are some that look like rubber toys but some
of the big guys look absolutely stunning. They are destined to become
legends once the movie hits home video.(I can see the toys now) Should
you see this? If you like great monsters yes, you'll want to see this.
If like horror movies, you can give it a try, but understand its just
an okay horror movie, not anything more. If you want a great movie find
something else.
<|_=00=_|>
Truth is, that's all one needs to say about this low-budget suspenser
about a group of spelunkers and scientists following a mysterious
passage deep into the earth, long hidden beneath an ancient church in
Romania. They quickly run into malformed creatures that exist only in
the darkness, and get picked off one by one as they race to find a way
out. The creatures are not as scary as the ones in "Pitch Black" or
even "The Relic." There is a much better movie buried here (pun
intended) involving some very tense and exciting sequences as the
spelunkers work their way through various caves and passageways and
waterways, and climb up and down steep rock walls. But the clichÃ©d
monster movie keeps getting in the way. And in the end, it doesn't help
that each character is a walking clichÃ© seemingly right out of "The
Core." I would gladly watch "The Cave" a second time, but only for the
cave exploration scenes. The ending has a nice, slightly twisty touch.
<|_=00=_|>
I give it an average "5" because it's an average movie. Not really bad,
not really good. Just not really ANYTHING. It just sat there and didn't
really do anything. As a "man against the elements" movie, it was at
least interesting. As a "creature feature," it was completely dull and
unoriginal. The characters were one-dimensional - you wouldn't care
about any of them.

Rather than letting us spend the time with these characters to learn
how and why they are so close-knit, the script writer simply had one of
the characters say, "We're like a family." - OK, if you say so . . .
then why does no one in the group shed a single tear when people start
dying? Characters move from death scene to death scene as if they are
just losing casual acquaintances - but wait, she said "they are like a
family." OH, I get it - because most family members can't stand each
other - OK, now it makes sense! Anyway - if they had lost the monsters,
gotten some better actors and a better script, and simply made a movie
about cave divers lost underground having to band together to get out,
this might have been a decent movie. As it is, the "escape the cave"
element is never really richly developed, and instead the focus seems
to be on "scaring" you, which it never does, or "wowing" you with
action and effects, which it CERTAINLY never does.

In the end, a wasted opportunity, with the only redeeming feature being
the nice sets and photography. Wait till it comes to cable, dudes!
<|_=00=_|>
Thirty years ago, in the Carpathians Mountains of Romania, a group of
explorers blows an entrance to a cave hidden under a church, but the
explosion causes a landslide and they become trapped inside. In the
present days, the expedition leaded by Dr. Nicolai (Marcel Iures) and
his assistant, Dr. Kathryn (Lena Headey) are exploring the place and
they find the access through an underwater river, requesting the
experienced cave divers team leaded by Jack (Cole Hauser). Dr. Nicolai
discovers that, in accordance with the local legend, the church was
built to seal the cave as a display of God's protective power, and that
Templar Knights entered the cave to fight winged demons. When the group
reaches a cave though a tunnel one mile below and three miles in, a
creature attacks one of the members and his breathing apparatus
explodes, collapsing the tunnel and trapping the group in the cave.
Sooner they realize that they are the rescue team and they have to find
an exit to survive from the attack of the monsters.

"The Cave" is a predictable rip-off of Alien. If the viewer sees the
trailer, as I did, he knows the whole story, and will only bet how
many, if any, of the characters will survive in the end. This movie
entertains because of the locations and the good cast. I am a fan of
Lena Headey and her beauty is a good reason to see this film. The
conclusion is a hook for a sequel, as usual. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "A Caverna" ("The Cave")
<|_=00=_|>
Two things - one: this film is nowhere near as bad as some say. Of
course, that doesn't make it good, but I enjoyed it.

Second - the prop used to show the strength of communications signal
when the first scout explores the cave system is in fact a silver Korg
guitar tuner! Not worth mentioning usually except that it is shown in
close up several times during this sequence, with the row of red lights
normally used to show how close to the note the guitar string is
representing here the strength of the signal from the first scout
diver...

You can freeze the DVD on one of the closeups to see the words "Cents"
and "Hz" and the note names E A D G B E written on the tuner. Classic.

Now that's what I call cheap props for an expensive film. Incidentally,
the Korg tuners are very good - at tuning guitars.
<|_=00=_|>
The scariest thing about this horror movie is that the end alludes to a
sequel. 'The Cave' is really a disappointing action movie. A team of
cave and undersea researchers go to Romania (one of these inexpensive
places to make a movie, for now at least) and following a destroyed
church enter in a cave that proves to be a realm of underground
monsters. Or are they daemons? The movie never decides if it wants to
be action, science fiction, or horror, it is a mix of all without salt
or fun, and acted in a wooden manner. The best thing about the movie is
the cinematography, but even the dark landscape of the cave becomes
soon boring, because the film lacks pace and the characters are simply
not interesting. Waste of time.
