
Look, I do get it. I fully appreciate that a film about a girl who gets
pregnant, has an early abortion, then manages to move on, would be a
pretty short movie. In fact, so short it wouldn't get made. No one
wants to know about reality. And certainly in 21st century North
America, no one wants to portray abortion as a viable option. Very,
very bad form currently.

But when I see this film reviewed as "blazingly truthful" and the
pregnant 16 year old central character described as being 'in a
pickle', as I did in one review, as if perhaps she'd forgotten a
homework assignment and might get detention, I have to admit that the
cynic who lurks in my soul gets full rein. This is basically a cutesy
film about being pregnant at 16, where despite a few problems, everyone
gets to live pretty much happily ever after. Gosh, girl in a pickle
comes good! Ahhh!! And apparently everyone in the cinema where I saw it
was quite overwhelmed by attacks of the warm fuzzies, except me. Two
seats away, a woman slightly older than me was weeping joyfully by the
end while behind me, young women were giggling happily as sweet Juno's
bump grew. Good grief! Is this really a message we want to give to 16
year olds? 

I'm beginning to think I'm something of an oddity. You see, I don't
find it 'blazingly truthful' that a bright, resourceful and articulate
16 year old as Juno is portrayed, would be so dumb as to have
inadequately protected sex then seem surprised to find herself up the
spout. One point of the script is that Juno herself apparently
initiated the sex, thought it through in advance in fact, because she
was bored. I therefore assume the pregnancy was at least to some extent
planned. And if she really had no idea that sex might lead to
pregnancy, her parents (portrayed as bemused but supportive), should be
excoriated for such inadequate parenting. And if I see one more review
which describes Juno as a comedy about growing up 'and the bumps along
the way.' (I'm prepared to bet good money on that having been written
by a middle aged man), I swear I'm going to run amok in the local mall
with a urine dip stick. Being pregnant at 16 isn't a sweet joke,
abortion clinics (whatever you think of their morality - and I'm
neutral on that) are not run by morons, and while Juno has some amusing
one-liners, and a good central performance from Ellen Page, it is
basically a deeply flawed, superficial movie which is trying too hard
to be cute. It's extremely manipulative.

I'm going to be very controversial and suggest that far from being
surprised by an unplanned pregnancy, Juno might actually be a very
willful young woman who wants to add pregnancy/childbirth/adoption to
her 'experiments-in-living' list. At everyone else's expense. It
certainly makes her the center of attention. She wouldn't be the first
girl to get pregnant for that reason.

I found the situation between the adoptive parents more convincing.
Childless Vanessa (Jennifer Garner) is desperate for a baby. Husband
Mark is not so sure, and does at least eventually face up to the truth
of his uncertainty by making a break for it. He may be 40 going on 18,
but he's being honest about it. And for me the most moving scene in the
whole film was when Vanessa held the newborn child in her arms for the
first time, having decided to go it alone as a mother anyway. If there
is a message to be taken from this movie, it's possibly that becoming a
mother when the time is right, is just fine. 

A superficial, cutesy, lightweight movie. The fact it was written by a
woman is no excuse. I am gobsmacked that it's been nominated.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at a preview in St. Louis about ten days ago and can't
stop thinking about it.

I had no expectations going in (as I was given three free passes) as I
took my teenage daughter and her friend. Learning about the subject
matter, I was quite anxious how it would be shown and frankly I thought
it was done very well.

First of all everyone has gone to High School with a Juno. That smart
alec independent tomboy, cute, refreshing & fun to be around but not
cool to date or be seen with. And the further removed from high school
you are, you look back and wonder why? The acting by Ellen Page was
outstanding (I had no clue who Ellen Page was - I have since watched
Hard Candy). I can't remember a film that I was so drawn in by the main
character.

I've always told friends for me the mark of a good movie is the
character actors and their performances. They all deliver in this
movie. I'm not going to go overboard and say its the best movie this
year but it is one that I would recommend. Its rare I go to a preview
and actually want to go see it again. Count me in come Dec 14th.
<|_=00=_|>
This whole movie was just one big farce. A great representation of
stupid trivial empty references and buzz phrases that I am sure we will
want to forget ever existed in the next year or so.

I saw it as less of a "independent" movie (or any sort of attempt at
social commentary, character study, creative screen writing, etc) and
more of a way for a company to make some money off the idiots who buy
into laughing at jokes based on things that exist in the current
culture.

HAHA she said something about how she eats "Taco Bell" or HAHA she
drinks blue slushie drinks or HAHA orange tic-tacs or HAHA she
mentioned "blogs". HAHA THATS SO FUNNY HOW CREATIVE OF YOU! Its all
pointless garbage that only tries to cover up the fact that this movie
had no storyline, the acting was bad (and I mean bad because the cast
portrayed characters that seemed basically written for them
specifically judging from their other work) and the soundtrack was
comprised of quirky-indie-folky three-chord acoustic guitar movie music
101 that is so far past the point of being contrived and unoriginal it
bewilders me how anyone could think it is genius.

I found the jokes annoying, the dialogue extremely annoying and the
main character Juno was the most shallow person ever with no regard for
anyone but her own selfish "I think I know more than those big dumb
uncool adults" mentality. You ask why everyone in school is staring at
you? Its because you are purposely making them stare at you by eating
in the trophy case with your giant pregnant gut intentionally sticking
out of that outfit next to your cliché "mountain of food" wrappers
strewn all over yourself and said trophy case! As someone else said,
the mentality of the screenwriter is that she not only owns a hamburger
phone, but she WANTS everyone to know that she owns a hamburger phone!
How can someone make such a desperate cry for attention but then shun
everyone when they pay attention? It is all too forced and perfectly
executed where I would ever believe that this was truly just a story
written to warm people's hearts. This was just an example of how
nowadays, everything is fair game for corporate rape; even hamburger
phones and unknown-to-the-mainstream folk bands like the Moldy Peaches.

The public is buying into it, falling for it and just contributing to
the further stupification and ignorance of everyone. It's a disgrace of
a film and an insult to people who really work hard to CREATE THEIR OWN
meaningful independent films. This writer just stole the ideas,
subjects, personalities, words and lines from things created by people
other than her so she can go buy a nice luxury house and live off the
earnings fed by the sheep who hail this movie as brilliant.

You want to tell the already-rich vultures banking off this film how
much you like to be controlled by them?? Go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I rarely post things on internet blogs but this is a bit of a concern
of mine. I am worried that beautiful films such as L'Infant are going
to now be classified in the same category as Juno. I understand the
mass appeal of this movie-- the mainstream audience being confused and
thinking it's an indie flick by the gritty film used and the obscure
references but Juno is in no way an independent film. I think why it is
so ineffective is because the audience it was trying to attract (the
movie fanatics who hate big budget Hollywood junk i.e. anything with
Jessica alba in it) saw it for what it really was: Hollywood junk
wrapped up in a converse shoelace bow. It was as indie as Avril is punk
rock.

Furthermore it is (in my opinion) a tasteless, pointless movie. For the
majority of the film I am more annoyed with Juno than I am sympathetic
to her plight. I also have a hard time relating to her as she is NOT a
16year old but rather a 35year olds characterization of a 16 year old
(does this make sense?) I have NEVER heard a teenager / young adult in
my life ever utter ridiculous lines such as "honest to blog?" or "yea
I'm total for-shiz". What the hell? I thought maybe a stripper turned
blogger would have been a little more able to develop a story with
characters that are down to earth but this Juno character is absurd.

Plus the rest of the film is completely underdeveloped-- you never see
the relationship with her stepmother develop or understand why it is
the way it is. Her relationship with bleaker has maybe 25 minutes but
it is in no way a developed understood relationship. In fact he's
barely even seen! The summary of the movie includes the words "and with
her beautiful friends help" but in the movie there is absolutely no
connection with her friends beauty and the relevance of it. Was there
supposed to be some conflict? All these story arcs that were never
completed.

I was very disappointed with this movie. Fox searchlight has produced
many good films (notes on a scandal, little miss sunshine, the last
king of Scotland, etc) but this is just an embarrassment. It wasn't as
though the actors were bad-- Michael Cera as usual plays the adorable
awkward adolescent and Ellen page, Jason Batemen, Jennifer Gardner, etc
play their roles respectively but the whole premise of the movie was so
over the top and unrealistic. Oscar worthy? It's ludicrous. This is a
movie worth missing.
<|_=00=_|>
I must be the only person who can honestly say I didn't crack a smile
once throughout the entire movie. It was hard for me to smile because I
was busy being irritated at the horrible dialogue and annoying "jokes"
spewed out by Juno and her stupid friends. Perhaps the worst part of
all was the irritating and unnecessary indie "girl with a guitar" music
constantly fading in and out throughout the movie.

The pattern to "Juno" was more or less like this: "I have a hamburger
phone" *insert music to show how quirky Juno is with her hamburger
phone* "Umm dad I got pregnant" *insert music to show what a dilly of a
pickle Juno is in* "Ah well, stuff happens" says the dad *insert indie
guitar with girl singing about how stuff happens* So just imagine 96
minutes of that kind of manure.

I respect Ellen Page as an actress but this movie is just too annoying.
The only part of the movie I really enjoyed and seemed to have any
depth to it was the situation with the couple who wanted to adopt
Juno's child and their relationship. They were complex and real, and
actually made me feel really sad and pity them.

I read through some reviews and I do not see any connections between
Juno and Family Guy humor. I love Family Guy, and Juno is nothing like
it. If I had to compare Juno to any movie I would say that it's a
failed wannabe of Napoleon Dynamite.
<|_=00=_|>
How original. A teenage girl who has the "old soul" vibe to her and for
no explained reason has knowledge of '77 Punk though she was born in
the '90's and her dimwitted blonde friend sure doesn't know who Richard
Hell would be. This movie is almost a slap in the face to anyone who
has a good set of morals. Her "only" options are to go to an abortion
clinic or give the baby up to spoiled yuppies? The basically uninformed
and shy Michael cera has basically no say in anything until all her
options run out and then she "decides" that they must have been in love
all along. And the comments she makes while getting her ultrasound are
borderline offensive and her mom had no right to stick up for her
daughters constantly talking and babbling mouth. The fact that ANY
teenager would actually act and talk like Juno is a farce. She even
keeps stopping by the adopters house unannounced and basically hitting
(or flirting) with Jason Bateman who is supposed to be adopting this
baby! And OF COURSE the parents are not only supportive but have plenty
of wacky looks and one-liners themselves. The soundtrack is even worse
then the crappy dialogue in this movie. I left this movie feeling
insulted and the lack of 'moral' to this story is ????? That you try
two different ways to ditch your own kid (who she always refers to as
"it") and when nothing works you go to the original father and say
"lucky you"! Even the sex that took place was non-emotional and scary
to think that high schoolers would just do it so casually like that.
And why are people putting associating the word "indie" w/ this movie?
It has major stars in it and looks pro. If I could of ripped my head
from my body and thrown it at the screen in order to get this movie to
stop I would have. Ellen Page deserves cut-out bargain bin for this
movie not any awards. Her performance was of utter annoyance. Maybe the
"american pie" movie crowd likes this but if you are a true lover of
film....skip it!
<|_=00=_|>
The thing that separates "Juno" from so many other films about teen
pregnancy is that, in this case, the 16-year-old who finds herself in
that predicament refuses to become a victim of her circumstances. From
the moment she confirms the unwelcome news, Juno studies her options -
abortion, raising the child as a single teen parent, adoption - then
takes matters into her own hands. Like the Roman goddess who is her
namesake, Juno is a bright, often sharp-tongued individual who prides
herself on her observant cynicism and her way with a sarcastic quip.
However, she's not above appealing to the adults in her life when the
problems of the world get to be too much for her (though, in some
cases, the grownups are coping with more serious issues than she is).
Yet, Juno makes certain that it is she and she alone who will have the
final say when it comes to determining the course of her own future and
that of her child.

"Juno" is that rare low-budget, independent feature that finds
unexpected success in the mainstream by striking a chord of recognition
in audiences across the demographic spectrum. First-time screenwriter
Diablo Cody hits pay dirt with a clear-eyed, largely unsentimental
script that is not afraid to go off in unexpected and interesting
directions and that avoids patronizing its Middle American characters.
Juno's father and stepmother manage to take the news in stride, while
the yuppie couple Juno alights on to be the child's adoptive parents
are given a depth and complexity far beyond what a lesser writer might
have afforded them. Director Jason Reitman keeps the quirkiness to a
minimum and allows the scenes to play out in a naturalistic, unhurried
way. Confident in the strength and appeal of his material, he lets the
gentle human comedy speak for itself.

In a star-making turn, young Ellen Page takes a daring approach to her
character, often bringing Juno right to the brink of un-likability,
then pulling back at just the crucial moment, making us see how utterly
likable she truly is. As the child's father, Michael Cera is virtually
the same lovably passive nerd we found so endearing in "Superbad,"
while J.K. Simmons and especially Allison Janney give rich shadings to
Juno's supportive parents. Jason Bateman and Jennifer Garner also make
their mark as the couple who post their picture in the "baby wanted"
section of the local throwaway.

"Juno" faces the downside of any independent film that unexpectedly
finds itself ripped from the confines of the art houses and suddenly
duking it out at the multiplexes with all those high-budget,
high-octane, testosterone-laden blockbusters - namely the risk of
over-inflated expectations. Thus, my advice is to look beyond all the
hype and box office records and simply let "Juno" sneak up on and take
a hold of you in its own quiet, inimitable fashion. I think it works
best that way.
<|_=00=_|>
At first blush, "Juno" seems like a pretty great movie. It's
entertaining and lots of fun to watch. There's a great cast, and each
of the film's characters are well-sketched and interesting. First-rate
cinematography keeps the film colorful and engaging from start to
finish. There are more than enough quirks, witty dialogues and obscure
name-droppings to keep the hipsters placated. Perhaps it's just a bit
pretentious and tries just a bit too hard, but these flaws could be
overlooked. The movie should have been a charming little indie-lite
film.

But it's not. Ultimately, I stepped out of the theater feeling
frustrated and unsatisfied. The problem is that "Juno" tackles two very
relevant issues in today's society - namely, abortion and teenage
pregnancy - and utterly fails to address either in a way that is
realistic or compelling. Now, maybe it's unfair to expect Juno to make
a decent exploration of these complex themes. It's just a comedy, after
all. However, even as many critics praise the movie's keen humor and
witty banter, it's hard not to get caught up in the fact that this
movie painfully abuses these highly relevant issues.

In one particularly wince-worthy scene, Juno's stepmother tells off an
ultrasound technician for indicating that teenage mothers are less
capable of taking care of their kids than adults. She argues that
teenagers could be just as devoted to their children as their adult
counterparts, and that she should stick to the things that she knows
about. Instead of defending her position, the technician wordlessly
exits while Juno, her friend and her stepmother exchange verbal
high-fives.

The film makes offers no exploration of the ultrasound technician's
completely valid viewpoint. Are teenagers ready to leave school to get
a job and start supporting a dependent of their own? Are these kids
really mature enough to tackle these issues? Should they have to? Does
the amount of devotion to the baby really matter when you can hardly
afford food and shelter? These relevant questions are left unasked. The
scene is telling of either the director's ignorance or else his pointed
attempt to skew facts to make a point, and neither shines well on the
movie.

Juno MacGuff seems to be living in a dream world. Never mind her
ridiculous vocabulary or unrealistically snappy sarcasm  her parents
barely react to the news of her pregnancy, she almost effortlessly
finds parents to adopt her unborn child (in a newspaper want ad, no
less), the legal issues are smoothed out in the span of 30 seconds and
Juno's social ostracism is hinted at but hardly explored in any
meaningful way. Instead of getting a believable portrayal of teenage
pregnancy, the film offers the pretentious name-dropping of hip punk
bands. At one point, Juno actually says "Sonic Youth is just noise" as
a biting insult. It's all a tad ridiculous.

At the end of the day, perhaps none of this should interfere with
enjoyment of the movie. Perhaps one should gloss over the film's
aggravating biases and enjoy what is otherwise a great film. However,
the fact remains that Juno passes itself as an artsy independent film
about teenage pregnancy and abortion, but it is little more than a
shallow, poorly considered exploitation of these important issues.
<|_=00=_|>
"Juno" is funny (nearly every single line of dialogue is written to
elicit laughter), directed with at just as sure a hand as "Thank You
For Smoking".. possibly surer.. and acted gamely by the whole cast --
especially Olvia Thirlby and J.K. Simmons as the title character's
galpal and understanding dad. The script, by Diablo Cody, is rich with
one-liners; anyone who's read Candy Girl (which is unbelievably
intelligent and funny; her description of Shania Twain, especially, had
me rolling) will kind of know what to expect.

This is without a doubt Ellen Page's show. She's in almost every scene,
and I couldn't spot an instalnce when she made a bad decision or timed
a delivery anything but dead-on. During a funky, kick azz opening title
sequence, Juno is on her way to the pharmacy. "I just drank my weight
in Sunny D, and gotta go, pronto!" It's time for another pregnancy
test, because the last result looked more like a division symbol than a
plus sign. New stick: same plus.

The father's a guy Juno had sex with once upon a time, who also happens
to be her best friend, Paulie Bleeker (a non-affected, quite bland
Michael Cera). She decides to give it up for adoption, being 16 and
all, which Paulie supports -- as do Juno's father and step-mom -- and
the rest of the film is about her selection of adoptive parents.

Pretty straightforward storytelling, but with an ear for quirky, hip
dialogue. If the spoken words were any more "cool", or the actors
speaking them did so with any less suave, my gag reflex might have
taken over. The AFF audience I saw it with, last Sunday, couldn't get
enough from the second Juno tells a dog to shut up, through lines
comparing babies to iPods and Alison Janney going off on a physician.

There's good stuff, here. And even though it never really swept me off
my feet, the film is consistently humorous and, in one scene near the
end, somewhat heartbreaking.
<|_=00=_|>
We've all done it. We've had that little moment where we think we're
clever. We will jot down a poem, a short story or maybe even direct a
super poignant student film and try to amaze everyone with our talents.
After blowing smoke up our own butts for a while, most of us come back
to earth fairly easily. Sometimes, we'll look back on these moments
years later and say, "Ah. My youth. How foolish I was back then.." and
enjoy a bit of nostalgia. Juno is what happens when that moment festers
long enough to make it to the big screen.

In the first line of the movie, the titular Juno claims that it all
started with a chair. I'm thinking it really started with a very
pretentious writer named Brook Busey-Hunt (a woman who refers to
herself as "Diablo Cody" and wrote a memoir when she was only 24, if
you want an idea of just how pretentious she is) saying to herself,
"Tee hee! What a neat idea I've just had! A movie that ends with the
same thing it begins with! I'm a genius!" This is pretty much the
feeling I got throughout the film; a movie constantly in awe of itself.
A movie THINKING it's clever instead of actually making an honest
attempt to BE clever. And, as with many films these days, it's designed
to be College Kid Quote Fodder. As such, Juno has received much
critical acclaim, and yet another bad example of how to make a movie is
made. An example that will be copied and recycled to the point of
obscenity. If you need proof, look no further than Juno itself, which
feels largely derivative of films such as Napoleon Dynamite.

It's hard for me to point out anything good about this flick, as nearly
every moment of it is so overflowing with arrogance and self indulgence
that the finer details are scarcely visible. There were a few moments
here and there that made me sort've laugh. Not an audible "ha-ha"
laugh. Just that little inner laugh where you blow air through your
nose once. Most of the dialog is very gimmicky and focuses on making
young hipsters feel cool because they have knowledge of semi-current
popular culture and the popular culture of yesteryear. Nearly every
line is like something out of an episode of Robot Chicken, Venture
Brothers or Family Guy, and the young, ignorant, "edgy" 20-somethings
who are lauding this film as a masterpiece gorge themselves on that
sort of thing. The "THUNDERCATS ARE GO!" line alone is going to ensure
that Juno will be recorded in the annals of history amongst those who
wear "Vote for Pedro" t-shirts and grown women who still wear those
annoying, multi-colored striped socks with all the toes. And there are
lot of you. I see you at the mall hanging out in front of HotTopic all
the time. And man, Sweeny Todd and Juno at the same time? You guys must
be having a liturgy.

See? I just did it right there. I was being a snide little jerk who
thinks he's funny. But the difference here is that this is just a
review soon to be flamed and forgotten, whereas Juno is currently
ranked as the 129th greatest movie of all time at IMDb. That might not
sound like a big deal, but bare in mind that this puts it above such
films as The Gladiator, Annie Hall, The Deer Hunter, Life of Brian, The
Princess Bride.. and, well, I don't even want to continue this list.
It's too depressing.

The film isn't a total loss. There are some decent performances, at the
very least. Most notably, we have Juno's parents, played by J.K.
Simmons, who many will remember as Jamison from the Spiderman trilogy,
and the West Wing's Allison Janney. Their characters were funny,
sincere, and had the only worthwhile lines in the film. The would-be
parents of Juno's unborn child, played by Jennifer Garner and Jason
Bateman, are also played fairly well (though Garner definitely feels
more than a bit out of place). The problem is that as convincing and
adorable as these characters are, they're peripheral characters with
very little to offer. As a matter of fact, the only character in this
film who doesn't feel peripheral is Juno herself, played by Ellen Page.
Page's performance is a tough one for me to slam because I can't quite
tell if she's just wooden or if she's struggling with the awful,
novelty dialog Brook Busey-Hunt wrote for her. The other characters
aren't so much characters as they are caricatures, and also feel
largely peripheral and derivative, even Juno's key love interest in the
film.

In the end, Juno is just another film to provide young adults something
to quote in front of their friends so they sound funny. But because the
young people of this generation are so pertinacious and precious, Juno
is adored by them and will probably go down in history as a masterpiece
along with similar College Kid Quote Fodder movies like 300, Borat and
Napoleon Dynamite. I was recommended this movie by a friend, and I was
somewhat excited to see it after seeing all the raving in its wake. I
won't say for certain that you should or shouldn't see this film. If
you think shows like the Venture Brothers or Family Guy are the zenith
of comic genius, you will love this movie, and by all means, go see it.
If you're a bit less juvenile and have a taste for real comedy like the
works of Woody Allen or Mel Brooks, Juno might leave you pretty
confused and $8 bucks poorer to boot. Go see Walk Hard instead, while
you still can. You'll at least get a good laugh, which is what comedy
aims for, and something Juno fails at miserably.
