
I gave this movie 10 stars to counter some of the 1-star reviews, but I
think it garners a solid 7 nonetheless. I don't know what those who
rated it so poorly were expecting, but for me, it was just what I
expected - enough chuckles to be entertaining, pretty Christmas
scenery, and a touching story. My 17 and 12-year-old sons liked it as
well. I thought Vince Vaughn played his typical character, which is
always good for a laugh or two, though rarely one you would choke
yourself on. I don't think the movie would necessarily go over with the
pre-school crowd because it's not "The Santa Claus," but children who
are old enough to understand the emotions being portrayed should enjoy
it. There are a couple of sexual innuendos that may offend the more
conservative viewers, but they likely go over the heads of the
youngsters. I'm always amazed at the range of reviews movies get here
at IMDb, and they truly show why we'll never all get along. I found
this particular film both entertaining and moving, which is all I
usually ask, particularly of a Holiday film. While "Fred Claus" doesn't
go beyond the call of duty so to speak, it certainly lived up to my
expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
Santa Claus' older brother Fred Claus (Vince Vaughn) was raised in the
shadow of his famous brother and has issues with his mother (Kathy
Bates). In Chicago, near Christmas, Fred asks for money on the streets
trying to raise fifty thousand dollars to open a betting shop. However,
many legalized Salvation Army Santa Claus chase him and Fred is
arrested and sent to jail. He calls his brother Nick Santa Claus (Paul
Giamatti) in the North Pole that accepts to pay his bail of five
thousand dollars and proposes to lend the amount Fred needs provided he
comes to the North Pole to help him in his factory. Meanwhile the mean
efficiency expert Clyde Northcut (Kevin Spacey) arrives in the North
Pole with the intention of finding three non-conformities in the audit
of the manufacturing process and shut-down the facility. When Fred is
assigned to work in the Naughty-Nice Department, the troubles of Nick
begin.

I do not recall the last time I have seen such entertaining Christmas
movie. "Fred Claus" is funny and has many hilarious moments (my
favorite is the siblings-anonymous, with Frank Stallone, Roger Clinton
and Stephen Baldwyn among others that resemble Ed Harris, Morgan
Freeman and other famous people). The message that there is no naughty
child and consequently every child deserves a Christmas gift is great.
The cast leaded by Vince Vaughn is fantastic and I really loved this
movie. I wish Merry Christmas to all IMDb movie and TV lovers and
staff. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Titio Noel" ("Uncle Claus")
<|_=00=_|>
As an avid lover of traditional Christmas movies, I was not expecting a
lot out of Fred Claus. However, I bought it because I wanted something
new for my 6 year old, and I really like Vince Vaughn. Many people I
talked to didn't like Fred Claus because Vince Vaughn is "the same as
he is in every movie." I happen to love that. The rest of the cast was
A+ and gave perfect performances. I LOVED THIS MOVIE and would
recommend it to anyone who loves Christmas! There were so many funny
parts as well as heart warming sweet moments that this movie was one
that my 6 year old son and I could enjoy together. I'm glad I skipped
renting and just bought this movie as it will be one I look forward to
every year.
<|_=00=_|>
Hilarious, Touching, Entertaining & Sweet sums up as 'Fred Claus'.

David Dobkin deserves kudos for directing a sensitive subject like
'Fred Claus'. The well-known filmmaker is blessed with 2 good writers
Dan Fogelman & Jessie Nelson, who've written this Christmas flick. A
joyride! 

Accoding to me 'Bad Santa' was an excellent attempt, but that was crude
and crass. But 'Fred Claus' is the most touching Christmas flick after
the Masterpiece 'The Polar Express'. Everything a cine-fan wants to see
is served in here, it's a feel-good entertainer that leaves loving your
loved ones a bit more.

Santa Claus is not the topic here, it's his brother Fred Claus, who
makes this simple story well-told. More than anything, this movie makes
you believe in Santa once again, {I was his biggest fan in my
childhood}, and after watching it I wish each and every kid in the
world awaits for Christmas.

Acting-wise: Vince Vaughn plays Fred Claus beautifully. He's dependable
as always. Paul Giamatti, as Santa, is lovable. Kevin Spacey plays the
conniving-turned-likable character with ease. Miranda Richardson is
first-rate. John Michael Higgins is hilarious as Willy. Kathy Bates,
Trevor Peacock, Elizabeth Banks, Bobb'e J. Thompson & Rachel Weisz are
effective in small roles.

Final word? MERRY Christmas, Indeed!
<|_=00=_|>
I have to be honest, when this movie came out I wasn't very keen on
seeing this movie, even though it had Vince in the lead whose comedy i
really like, it was the whole premise of the movie which was putting me
off and reading the reviews did not help either because they were not
doing the movie any justice. Now finally after a good 8 or 9 months of
the films theatrical release, I happened to get it on DVD and boy was I
surprised. This film is not your average Vince Vaughn comedy film with
lots of slick lines, it has a very few of those, I think this was
marketed a little bit vaguely because it certainly is not a comedy but
it is a good drama/family movie with quite a lot of heart and
especially if you have a brother, watch this movie it wont change your
life or anything but for those 2 hours it will make you feel good about
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
My partner and I loved this movie. We own a couple hundred Christmas
movies and are only able to watch a small subset each year, but I think
this will go into our "rotation" as a perennial favorite.

Vince Vaughn is his typical self - caustic but charming. Paul Giamatti
is great as a jolly Santa Claus who's got just a little bit too much on
his plate this year, what with family and productivity challenges . . . 

Kathy Bates and Trevor Peacock make great parents for the Claus
siblings, and Kevin Spacey is great is his pivotal role. 

The special effects are also excellent: seamless and effective - the
North Pole never looked better ;-)

In short, this is a fun and funny Christmas movie. See it!
<|_=00=_|>
Every Christmas eve I make my kids endure yet another showing of It's A
Wonderful Life. I also thoroughly enjoyed Bad Santa. So sue me. I admit
it. I like cheesy, schmaltzy movies. I like excellent, intelligent ones
too, but as with so many things, variety is a good thing. What would
the Christmas season be without the annual cinematic ka-ching ka-ching
of Santa in all his guises, from Edmund Gwenn to Billy Bob Thornton?
Fred Claus will make no one forget Bedford Falls, but I do not believe
a Christmas film should have to reach iconic stature to succeed. "Fred"
is a perfectly OK holiday movie, with enough humor for the adults and
sufficient charm for the kids. My wife and I laughed a lot, even if
most of the humor was obvious and Vince was just being Vince. Paul
Giamatti was a top-notch Santa, which helped a lot. Not a great flick,
and unlikely to become must-viewing for anyone's annual Christmas
traditions. But my wife and daughter and I enjoyed it for what it was,
holiday schmaltz with a small dash of spice. There's nothing wrong with
that.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I took our niece to the theater for this and it was a good
time. Vince Vaughn plays the lead role of Fred, the grouchy and
disgruntled brother of the real Santa Claus (Paul Giamatti). When
things get tough one year up at the North Pole where Santa lives, he
sends for his estranged brother to visit him and help out. It seems a
nasty efficiency man (Kevin Spacey) is about to shut Santa's massive
toy making operation down permanently if certain standards are not
maintained, and this low-life is doing everything he can to make sure
things never straighten out. 

I usually don't like Kevin Spacey, but he was perfect for this part and
I enjoyed the whole cast too, in fact. It's getting to the point where
I'd go to see any movie with Paul Giamatti in it, and though you'd
think he's not physically right for the role of Santa Claus, he makes
it work. I found this funny and festive, with something to say about
what hurt feelings and mistreatment can do to turn good people bad (ie;
make nice people "naughty"). I especially got a kick out of a scene
featuring a "Syblings Anonymous" type of meeting for disgruntled
brothers, where some famous faces made cameos. There's good music
featured throughout as well, and not all of it necessarily being
Christmas tunes. *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Essentially, a nice film. No violence of any significance, sexual
references will go over small children's heads. The movie explores
sibling rivalry in an interesting, pleasant way: the "sibling
anonymous" scene was quite amusing (I think a relative of the Smothers
Brothers and Morgan Freeman was in that scene. The comments from Roger
Clinton ring true to life.) This is a movie that one can explore with
kids when they are a bit older and in a mood to discuss sibling
rivalry. It also has a lovely use of Chicago, and I loved the assaults
from unexpected quarters.

Interestingly, I think this movie appeals more to adults than very
small children. My kids did get a little restless; my wife and I loved
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Perplexed by anything other than an "outstanding" rating for this gem
of a holiday film. It tugs on every conceivable emotion, has stupendous
acting by all (in particular John Michael Higgins as Willie the Elf Â–
check out the dance lesson scene!), draws from an incredibly deep
screenplay, and to boot, (no pun intended), has spectacular special
effects. I would consider putting it #2 Christmas movie of all time,
behind only Miracle on 34th Street with Natalie Wood, Edmund Gween,
etc.
