
This was an extremely graphically violent film with some gratuitous
nudity. A lot of extremely well played roles. characters were simple
with complex backgrounds. It kept me on the edge of my seat for the
entire film wondering what was next. I left feeling like I had just had
a two hour seizure. Every time you thought you had it figured out it
threw a curve at you. From beginning to end it was fabulous and
realistic. Paul Walker gave an excellent performance and you really got
into his skin. The supporting cast was excellent, development of the
characters rolled out in a believable manner with out a bunch of
unnecessary revelations. I will buy this movie when it comes out on
DVD. If you enjoyed Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction you will probably
really enjoy this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a big fan of Tarantino after seeing "Resevoir Dogs" and "Pulp
Fiction". "Running Scared" is certainly in that same vein, and it also
reminds me of John Woo's "The Killer". But where this film lacks the
dialog of a Tarantino film, it is a lot more visually stylish than
anything QT has ever done. There are great transitions, effective
dynamic time warping (speed up or slow down a shot, like a bullet
flying through the air), and if you thought Maynard, Zed, and the Gimp
were bizarre in "Pulp Fiction", wait until you meet the creepy married
couple who through their sick hobby make every other evil character in
this film look like Buddhist Monks. It's a fast, furiously-paced film,
certainly aptly titled. A great cast, beginning with Paul Walker and
Vera Farmiga. And certainly the main kids stand their ground,
especially Cameron Bright. Also worth mentioning is the end title
sequence animated by Gary Hebert. Bottom line, if you were disappointed
by films like "Kill Bill" and "Sin City", films you really wanted to
like but found them too cartoonishly clich√©d, you'll be more than
satisfied with "Running Scared". It's sharp and engaging.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is definitely more violent than the ones I normally go to
(I'm a woman in her 50's)but I really enjoyed this one. It kept me on
the edge of my seat through the whole movie. A couple of times I even
jumped in my seat. Paul Walker was great - he seemed perfect for the
part. I hadn't seen him in movies before but I'm definitely a fan now.
The story has a definite twist which kept me interested. If you can get
past the violence and some nudity, I'd really recommend it. Lot of
action and suspense and a good story line. The theater was full when I
went and the audience clapped for the movie at the end - which means
most of them enjoyed it too.
<|_=00=_|>
Nobody makes movies like Running Scared any more. Five years ago, this
film would've been toned down by whichever studio released it in order
for it to receive the lowest certificate possible. Bravo, then, to
writer/director Wayne Kramer for sticking to his guns and delivering
one of the most uncompromising, memorable and downright brutal
thrillers in recent memory.

Joey (Paul Walker) is a small-time mobster hired to dispose of 'hot'
guns for his bosses. One of these weapons (with particular value over
all the others) falls into the hands of his son's best friend and is
used to startling effect. Here is where the real fun starts. Joey can
find neither the child nor the weapon in question, and he has only 18
hours before either the police, the Russian mafia or his own employers
catch up with him.

Walker is surprisingly impressive considering the strictly
one-dimensional roles he played in movies such as The Fast And The
Furious and Into The Blue. Here he plays Joey as someone well aware of
his impending death should he fail, and throughout he is totally
watchable and believable. No more will audiences giggle to themselves
every time he delivers a dud of a line.

The story occasionally flags, particularly in the middle of the film,
but Kramer is not afraid to play with the camera-work to keep the
audience's attention - whip-pans, CSI-style extreme close-ups, super
slow-motion, sepia filters and colour bleaching are all used to give
the film a gritty and somewhat unique look - take, for instance, the
kitchen shooting about half an hour into the film, played from multiple
viewpoints in both forward and reverse.

The film's charcoal-dark tone may be too relentless for some viewers,
and the paedophilia subplot could be considered as taking things one
step too far, but as long as you've got a strong stomach and can face
hearing lashings of creative swearing, there's a lot of enjoyment to be
found here. Unbearably tense, visually inventive and superbly acted
from start to finish, Running Scared is the first real surprise of 2006
- it pulls no punches and thrills from its excessively bloody opening
to its foul-mouthed conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
Those who dismiss this classic film, and it really is destined to be a
cult classic are perhaps properly outraged by the characters that Wayne
Kramer populates this film with. Drug addicts, hookers, mobsters, wife
beaters, pedophiles, crooked cops and pimps cross the path of Oleg and
Joey as they run through the city looking to stay alive. Tarantino
comparisons will abound as with any clever and violent film these days,
but Wayne Kramer imprints Running Scared with his own wonderful style.
I watched Richard Roeper give this a thumbs down by saying that Kramer
throws in everything but the kitchen sink, I wholeheartedly agree but
consider that a compliment. The climactic finale that takes place in a
hockey rink starts off reminding me of one of my favorite scenes from
another cult classic Philip Kaufman's "The Wanderers" which was derived
from "The Hustler", but it only starts off there, and then it becomes
perhaps the best all out violent mess that has ever been filmed. 

I can't say enough about this film. I even thought Paul Walker was
terrific. He shows promise that he has never shown before by eschewing
the pretty boy shtick. 

I just watched the film a second time upon it's DVD release which is
something I seldom do, and I realized that Kramer views the film as a
fairy tale. The evil characters are so over the top. They are the
creatures of the night that populate our nightmares as opposed to the
evil actually populating the streets. The film is about legends and
myth. If the bad guys are the ones portrayed in the film, the good guys
are John Wayne. If this sounds a little strange just watch the ending
credits carefully.

People will discover this film. It is pure testosterone. But it sure
kicks ass. I liked Wayne Kramer's the Cooler a lot as a simple
character piece. I also enjoyed Mindhunters more than most, but now I
anxiously await his next film. I think Wayne Kramer is going to create
a great body of work over the next few years.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is probably one of the best I've seen in a long while. The
action scenes were in your face and looked pretty damn realistic. The
special effects were freaking awesome and the director did some really
cool stuff which will blow you away. The acting was very believable and
the plot worked very well. It reminded me of Training Day the way the
story unfolded while we went along for the ride. The plot is freaking
awesome and I can't wait to get the DVD. An AWESOME movie!! Definitely
must watch this again. The thing to remember when you watch this movie
is that it's a ride just sit and enjoy it. I've never felt a need to
promote a movie but this one is too good to let others miss it. It is
painful to watch in some scenes and at times you're actually totally
disgusted once you figure out what's going on. It's crazy the emotions
that this movie brings out.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer for this movie on TV, I thought it looked
interesting. The way the movie was shot and the effects were showed off
somewhat, and that's what appealed to me the most about the trailer.

I thought I was going to see a gangster flick, great, but I got
something else, which turned out to be better. I would call it an odd
mix of Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Go, Goodfellas, and Kill
Bill. Based on content, cinematography and story. I was enticed
throughout the entire movie, and it kept me from yawning. I loved the
story, the characters, and the twists and turns this movie provided.

The acting was quite good and believable. Paul Walker impressed me in
this one, and I ate up the gangster and cop stereotypical roles as
well. The kids did well also, except the main character's son is a bit
annoying simply because he never listens to his parents, but this is
not due to his acting but the character he plays.

I went to see the movie last night, and the theater was completely
empty! Either people don't see movies on Saturday nights anymore, or
people didn't feel that they wanted to see this film. I have no idea
why. It's a shame, like most other reviewers have pointed out, that
this movie did not do better at the box office.

Go see this if you like action movies with an interesting plot.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much from this movie with Paul Walker as the star
attraction, but this movie was thoroughly entertaining and I would
highly recommend seeing it.Paul Walker gives a good performance
although Cameron Bright steals the show even though I've always saw the
kid as creepy after seeing him in The Butterfly Effect. The action in
this movie is non-stop and it keeps you guessing up to the very end. I
enjoyed how the movie was shot with New Jersey as a backdrop, the movie
covered a lot of ground and used various locations that added to the
intrigue. This movie provides a nice twist on modern day mob movies. I
do agree with a review that I read that said that the gun floating
around served as a maguffin (not sure if I spelled that correct) the
action provides a high level of entertainment and excitement.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit I knew absolutely nothing of this film until I walked into
the cinema. I saw no ads on TV or blurbs on the internet. And as far as
I knew it was a remake of the movie with Billy Crystal and Gregory
Hines. Well, it's not! It's actually a rather bizarre actioner. I'll
get to that in a minute.

First of all, if you are kind of annoyed at the lack of good,
old-fashioned R-rated action movies these days then this film will
definitely set the balance straight. There are many, many, MANY gory,
and even sometimes shocking, deaths in this film that make A History of
Violence look like an episode of Sesame Street.

It plays like one of Robert Altman's multi-story character dramas. At
the very beginning we are treated to a bloody gunfight in a motel room
after a drug deal goes sour. Head thug Tommy 'Tombs' Perello (Johnny
Messner) instructs henchman Joey (Paul Walker) to dispose of his gun.
He was going to right after dinner but the battered kid next door nicks
it to shoot his abusive father and legs it across Brooklyn. Joey must
then find him and make up a story to prevent a zillion plot threads
(involving crooked cops, rival Mafia families, evil pimps, child
rapists/killers) from snapping.

The gun itself is a curious MacGuffin. It passes through the hands of
many people who's lives all connect. There doesn't seem to be any main
story as the film spends equal amounts of time developing every one and
although it seems interesting it also feels like loads of different
films crammed together. It's constantly meandering and going in another
direction and revealing twist after twist. Yes, it keeps the film
interesting but by the time the main twist comes at the end you're too
exhilarated too care. Running Scared is probably one of those films
that improves upon repeat viewings.

Besides the schizophrenic story, what really brings the film down to a
slightly above-average experience is the fact that director Wayne
Kramer uses every editing technique he can think of despite whether
they are appropriate or not. They may be technically impressive but
they lack class and pull the film into a kind of Michael Bay-Area,
where it doesn't belong.

I was also kind of weary of the fact that it headlines Paul Walker.
I've never liked any of the teen-oriented movies he's been mugging in
but I have to say that this is definitely his most demanding role yet
and he tries really, really hard to convince. But I'm still undecided
about him. If he can pull off this kind of this kind of role again and
ditch the pretty-boy image I'll forgive him for previous crimes.

But the highlight of the movie is Cameron Bright who plays Oleg, the
abused kid. He's a way better child-actor than Dakota Fanning and can
express loads of different emotions even with a blank face. The amount
of nasty stuff his character goes through is probably unfamiliar and
difficult for a child-actor to understand but he handles it extremely
well and his scenes with Paul Walker are faultless.

Don't put the lack of publicity for this film put you off. It's not
perfect but it's far from being a failure. Like I said, it'll probably
be better on a second viewing but the first one will still be a
thrilling experience.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was non-stop. It was full of action. It was intense, and at
times surprising. I can see Paul Walker is trying to shed his pretty
boy image. I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. It reminded me of
a cross between Pulp Fiction and A history of violence with a twist.
There were some moments that down right shocked me. This movie is not
for anyone under the age of 17. And if this is your first date with
someone...this is not the right choice...it could lead to some
awkwardness. The acting was good. I wonder if the studios are gearing
Paul Walker for something more. He just might be our next Matthew
McConaughey. If you like gritty movies...than you are gonna enjoy this.
