
Here's the deal: Everyone, and I mean EVERYONE has panned Mr. Bean's
Holiday for being unfunny, a cow milked dry, same old same old, blah
blah blah. Either these people just don't have a sense of humour, if I
may be that harsh, or they didn't even see the flick and just reviewed
it based on the weak trailer and their own false assumptions. I on the
other hand have seen this movie and I can honestly say that it blew me
away. It is not only about ten times better than its weak 1997
predecessor (which the film wisely ignores completely), it is a
genuinely great movie. It's a feel-good movie which actually makes you
feel good (!!) and never turns into awkward sappiness. It is also
absolutely hilarious and, thank god, unlike the original movie this one
doesn't recycle gags from the TV series.

The basic story is that Mr. Bean wins a ticket to Cannes, where he
accidentally separates a young boy from his father. Bean must help the
kid find his father again. The plot is hardly the focus of the film,
though - it's all about Bean and the often awkward, often painful, and
always funny situations he gets himself into.

Rowan Atkinson is at his absolute best and I think it's about time he
gets an Academy Award. No, I'm serious. If you think playing Mr. Bean
is just a matter of goofing around and making stupid noises, I'd like
to see you do it. Atkinson has developed this character to absolute
perfection and is the only one who could possibly play the lovable
idiot. The over-the-top body language, the facial expressions, and the
convincing vibe you get from Bean that, well, the lights are on but
there's nobody home - you can't bring all of this to a character if
you're not a good actor. Rowan Atkinson is a genius and, like most
comedians, he never gets the recognition he deserves.

The supporting cast is good as well, especially Willem Dafoe as an
art-house director with his head so far up his own ass and an ego so
ridiculously huge he makes Roger Ebert look like Adam Sandler. But this
is really Atkinson's show and he carries the entire movie, as expected.
The sight gags and physical humour aren't exactly intellectual, but
they are very funny and fresh most of the time and the comedy is, well,
kind of classy. There's absolutely no toilet/gross-out humour (which I
love, by the way), so it's really a mystery why the stuck-up critics
disliked this as much as they did - assuming they even watched it.
Although the humour is pretty "safe" most of the time, it never stops
being funny and I can safely say that this is a film that the whole
family can enjoy (and trust me, I don't often say that about movies -
"fun for the whole family" usually translates to "fun for the average
two-year old, torture for the rest of humanity" in my mind). It's not
just kiddie stuff and the comedy is universal.

It's a sweet, warm-hearted and very funny movie with a great
soundtrack, good performances, a light plot, and a fantastic ending.
Which leads me to the question: "Did I and the critics watch the same
movie?" Perhaps Willem Dafoe's obnoxiously pretentious character hit
just a little close to home for the snotty critics the film so
obviously spoofed? They can have their "Playback"-type films and gush
praise over them all they want - I'd take this holiday over that any
day.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand the bad comments here. I saw the movie just now at a
press screening in Bangkok. I did not expect much (because I read the
negative comments yesterday), but it was very good! It's not rocket
science, it's just another Mr. Bean movie. I even thought this one was
better than the first one, especially in the second half of the movie.
The end was a bit over the top, but that's only for the last two
minutes, you will see why.

Willem Dafoe is also pretty funny as super ego movie director/actor and
blends in well in the story with his 'replay' movie. Don't take life
too serious and you will enjoy your time in the cinema watching Mr.
Bean's Holiday!
<|_=00=_|>
If you asked a handful of people of varying ages in America, chances
are you'd get about 8 out of 10 knowing who he is. They may not know
Rowan's real name, but they know the character.

The sad part about this film is that it's absolutely wonderful, and
most people in America aren't going to see it because it's rated "PG".
Not a dirty gag, foul word, or joke about someone's junk to be found.
And the really amazing part is that it's half comedy, half gorgeous
scenery surrounding it. It mocks the Hollywood standard, it has
melodious music, it's masterfully filmed, and all the while you just
find yourself going "Oh, that Bean." *puts fists on hips*

I can't honestly say I've seen a film this good, this funny, this...
pure that can make anyone laugh and find themselves feeling charmed
after having seen it. Emma De Caunes stole my heart, Max Baldry is a
kid that anyone his age can relate to, and Defoe actually pulls out a
great, over-the-top performance without even uttering a four-letter
word that he's so very good at snarling out.

You know what? Shame on us America. That we need the big bang, the
flatulence, and the double entendre to amuse our soured idea of comedy.
What is so wrong with having a character like Bean, a performance like
Atkinson's, that we can't find that part of us that wasn't soured on
tasteless "humor" but just absorb and let out a barrel-chested sigh of
satisfaction after a hearty laugh from a genuine, clever clean joke or
visual gag?

We'll go on, with our Jackasses and Scary Movie XII and we'll forget
about them five minutes after we've left the theater, but darnit, it's
high time a movie like Mr. Bean's Holiday came along. And I for one
would pay money to see this again, even if the American know-it-alls of
Hollywood think it's better suited in a death slot in September, to be
forgotten, sandwiched between sequel after sequel and the banality of
teen slasher flicks acted by twenty-somethings whose genre should have
died off years ago.

If what Atkinson says is true, that this is the last time Bean will
ever appear, then he's gone out on the highest note you could ever
bestow on a character so beloved. Shine on Bean, and ride off into that
sunset, you crazy, wonderful fella you. And thanks for all the laughs.

... But where's Teddy?
<|_=00=_|>
I don't wish to go on and on as Mr bean is a character whom each
individual has their own views on, some love him and some hate him
however this film, for most fans, is a welcome return to the 'classic'
bean we knew in the TV series far less 'americanised' than in the
ultimate disaster movie. It seems that Rowan has taken bean to a new
emotional level resembling classic silent artists such as Keaton and at
times Chaplin, some scenes seem very reminiscent of "the kid" and help
keep peoples attention to the story, not just Beans funny movements,
though at times it drags slightly. There are of course aspects which
have been included to accommodate an international audience but that is
expected. In an effort not to give any of the film away and there's
little dialogue to quote all I can say is that I enjoyed the film and
felt that this is the Bean i saw as a child and Rowans ability to emote
with facial expression alone should place him amongst the greats in
silent entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
After too long on our screens Mr. Bean returns but not in his usual
way. Instead of crazy laughs per minute (as in Bean and the earlier Mr.
Bean TV episodes), this is a road trip movie with some gaps in the
action. There are laughs but some of the scenes are more clever than
hysterical. Nothing however can take away from the joy of sharing in
Mr. Bean's exploits as he tries to reach his simple goal, a holiday at
the beach. Everyone left the film with huge smiles and several had
tears of happiness (not tears of uncontrollable laughter). If you want
to see a happiness inducing pick me up movie then this is one of the
best around.
<|_=00=_|>
Rowan Atkinson had disappeared off our screens for a little while.
After the critical mauling of Johnny English he sort of vanished into
thin air for a while. Personally I can never understand why the critics
savaged Johnny English as much as they did, sure it was flawed but it
was pretty funny. Now, however Rowan Atkinson has returned, and he's
brought along his most well loved character to date. Mr Bean is back,
ladies and gentlemen! Now for some people this will cause great
excitement, for others it will cause them to groan very loudly. You see
Mr Bean is an acquired taste, and after seeing this movie I can still
very much say that Mr Bean is an acquired taste. If you dislike Mr Bean
in the first place the odds are extremely high that you will hate his
latest outing. I on the other hand really like Mr Bean, not love, but I
enjoy his sketches and the last movie was pretty funny. This movie in
my eyes is a bit better despite still being overly sentimental and some
comedy moments feeling a bit too forced. But this is a movie of small
pleasures, this doesn't deliver witty comedy, in fact a lot of humour
relies on either slapstick or embarrassing situations, yet the comedy
still feels fresh and you can't help but enjoy it all along.

The first thing I'll mention is the actual storyline and the actual
comedy of the movie. The storyline here works a lot better than it did
in the first Bean movie. It seems more natural and like a proper Bean
movie, not committee driven like the first movie seemed. The story
involves Bean winning a raffle and going off on a holiday to France.
It's a simple story and won't be winning any awards, but its what
happens along the way that makes the movie so much fun. The comedy here
ranges from pretty small laughs, such as the tie getting caught in the
baguette machine, to absolutely hysterical sequences which involves Mr
Bean trying to earn some money. And the comedy works like that
throughout, its always making you smile, whether it be small little
sequences that make you smile to yourself, or whether you're
practically rolling in the aisles, this is a feel good movie and proud
of it.

Nevertheless, the fact it is a feel good movie is also the movies
largest downfall. The original Bean movie had huge problems because it
was overly sentimental, unfortunately it seems like they haven't learnt
their lessons with this movie. Sure it starts out hilarious, but the
sentimentality begins to kick in around the halfway mark, and sometimes
it is unbearably sickly that you can't help but want to heave. Of
course this is a kids movie so I can't be overly critical with the
sentimentality. But I would have preferred it to have had a little less
of it. We want to see Bean in funny situations, not in a situation that
tries to be heartwarming yet feels oddly misplaced. My other moan goes
with the ending, it seems rather abrupt and also a tad sickly. The
sickliness of it goes with my last complaint. But the ending after a
bit of a lead up just suddenly jumps on you and its over. I was the
only out of the group I saw it with who felt this, so perhaps that is
just my feelings, but in my eyes I wanted a more spread out ending.

The performances of the movie are up to a pretty high standard.
Atkinson doing his traditional Mr Bean routine, it doesn't feel old in
the movie and it still proves that the character is pretty funny.
Willem Dafoe pops along for a great role, and the actual child actor of
the movie was surprisingly not irritating like a lot of child actors
out there. Overall Mr Bean's Holiday is a great family movie that will
keep the kids in hysterics and the adults very happy as well. Its not
going to amaze people, but in terms of fun this movie should be a
family favourite.
<|_=00=_|>
After a quiet last couple of years, Rowan Atkinson returns to the big
screen in what will probably be the last outing for Mr. Bean.

Mr. Bean's Holiday sees Bean head off to the South of France after
winning a prize in a save-the-church raffle, where, as you can imagine,
things don't exactly go to plan as he stumbles across problems in
actually getting there. On his travels, he meets the son of a Cannes
Film Festival judge (Baldry), his father, a beautiful actress (de
Caunes) and a selfish film director (Defoe). The Cannes Film Festival
is used to bring the characters together at the film's end in some
hilarious final scenes.

Don't go into this expecting something along the lines of the original
Bean movie. Bean 2 has less talking and Mr. Bean probably works better
with only the odd word. Fewer characters allow for this. The movie has
a feel of less like the Ultimate Disaster movie and more like an
extension of one of his TV shows, not completely however  it still has
many differences.

I am a huge fan of Mr. Bean, having watched all the TV shows from a
young age. No work of Atkinson as Bean has ever disappointed and this
movie certainly does not either. If I am being critical, I would go as
far as saying that the original disaster movie was better  that had
more of the feel of a feature film. This was still great however, and
if you really like Bean, you will not stop laughing in Mr. Bean's
Holiday; I certainly did not.

Willem Dafoe was great in the small role that he had and the kid, Max
Baldry wasn't too bad either whilst the performance by good looking
French actress, Emma de Caunes was quite good too.

I guess you could put Mr. Bean in any situation and it would still be
great. I know the chances of Rowan Atkinson coming back again to play
Bean are low, but, I would be so pleased if he could make another
movie, or even a few more TV shows.

Rowan Atkinson is pure comedy genius and Mr. Bean's Holiday is great
fun for the whole family.

Excellent Movie - 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
It's Mr. Bean again and I really appreciate his effort. I think the
movie isn't that bad, not as bad as people talk. There were so many
scenes that I found really funny and entertaining. I love the fact that
this one takes place in France and I get a chance to see the beauty of
it. It's great I think. And yes Mr. Bean still shows his silliness in
front of the screen.

Personally I love this movie. It's funny and I would recommend this to
watch this not alone but with the whole family since I think it's also
a bit too childish. Ooh, maybe I enjoy it because I'm still a child.
Hehehe...

Still one of the funniest movie for the first quarter of 2007.
<|_=00=_|>
Mr. Bean's Holdiay was a movie I really enjoyed. Mr. Bean was back in
true form, and delivered an unexpectedly funny movie. Part of Mr.
Bean's humor is when something is about to happen, you can see it from
a mile away, and you yell at the screen "look out Mr. Bean!" or "He
left it on the counter! Oh No!" or what have you. There is plenty of
this,but there is also a great deal of irony and clever wordplay in it
as well. It's a well rounded comedy movie, that will be funny to
children and adults alike. I'm not really a big Mr. Bean fan, but I
really liked this movie anyway, and I know that most people will too,
if they give it a chance. I will definitely recommend this movie to my
friends, and to anyone who reads this review.
<|_=00=_|>
Mr Bean is back and is again going to be causing more disaster! Rowan
Atkinson still plays the part tremendously. 19 years later and is still
playing the same guy. Rowan Atkinson just never seems to want to get
old. He still looks young and as fit as anything. Rowan Atkinson does
his stunts in this movie too. The acting is somewhat good. What this
movie tends to do is not be funny for 5 minutes and then they throw in
a laugh out loud joke. It doesn't seem to fail once. This film is a
movie for everyone of all ages. All the kids and adults were laughing
all the way through it. Don't believe all the critics or haters. It's
exactly the same with Meet The Fockers. Whenever there's a comedy
sequel people bash it, and guess what? They haven't seen it or all of
it. So ignore the haters and enjoy a laugh out loud joke every 5
minutes or so.
