
I wasn't expecting much, but I was pleasantly surprised. I laughed at
several witty lines, especially one where Zach corrected Vince's
grammar, but Vince didn't get it. Even Jessica Simpson didn't bother me
because they didn't try to inflate her intelligence; they just made her
a rather bland character. 

The plot isn't original, but watching Vince pretend he was Tom Cruise
from Cocktail made me laugh. When I watch this sort of movie I want to
laugh and I did just that. Dane Cook was a pleasant surprise too. I had
never seen anything with him. I thoroughly enjoyed the movie even
though I didn't think that I would.
<|_=00=_|>
I was hardly amused when I saw the previews for this movie. It didn't
look that good, I'm not that big of a Dane Cook fan (and in no way a
Jessica Simpson fan), and I didn't enjoy "Waiting" too much (though I'm
not sure how much that relates). This movie has more wit than it knows
what to do with, and I laughed out loud numerous times. All the acting
was spectacular and I was surprised to find that the writing had equal
amounts of humor and heart.

To come into it thinking it was going to be terrible and coming out
thinking it was one of the better movies I've seen in a while, I'd say
that's an accomplishment. Though its only my opinion of course, check
it out if your curious.
<|_=00=_|>
I gotta be honest. I didn't expect much from this movie for about 1000
reasons but it really took me by surprise. It's HILARIOUS! I loved it
so much that, by the end, I wanted to work in the Costco with all of
them. The entire cast is solid - my favorite being Dax Sheppard. He is
a comedic genius! I don't know how the makers were able to do it but
they even managed to get a good performance from Jessica Simpson. I
wanted to hate her but I just couldn't. She's very likable and genuine
in this movie. And the best part is - they don't have any of her songs
on the soundtrack. Employee of the Month is a quirky comedy with a
substantial story and charming characters. Definitely a movie worth
checking out!
<|_=00=_|>
I went in hoping for something that was like Clerks or Office Space,
What I received was unfortunately this piece of crap.

Employee of the Month could have been funny or decent, but like most
comedies made in the last decade, all of the characters and situations
are unbelievably over the top. The characters are all unsympathetic
caricatures with no depth and one joke apiece that they tell over and
over again. Many of the remaining jokes don't even make any sense. The
thing that always makes workplace comedy the funniest is the truth of
the situations the characters find themselves in. Instead what was
presented is a series of contrived plot points pulled from every teen
movie and apparently written by a twelve year old imagining what it
would be like to have a job. 

There was a chuckle or two and Jessica Simpsons breasts gave a stunning
cameo as themselves, otherwise this movie is just another poorly
written, directed, and acted clich√© fest with no heart, truth or humor.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Vince Downey (Dax Shepard) is the head cashier and winner of
17 consecutive Employee of the Month awards at Super Club. If he wins
one more Employee of the Month, he will be put in the Super Club's Hall
of Fame and win a new car. Zack Bradley (Dane Cook), who is the
ultimate slacker, has been working at the Super Club for 10 years, and
is still at the bottom job, working as a box boy. Then Amy (Jessica
Simpson) enters the picture; she is a new cashier transferring in from
another Super Club store. Amy has a reputation of dating men who have
won Employee of the Month at the other store, so Vince and Zack want to
date Amy. The fight is on to win Employee of the Month! 

(My Comment) Well it sounds like it could be a good movie, but you
would be wrong. This film's stupid humor is crude and silly and to that
end, it was made to please the young crowd. By the TV commercials, you
would think that Jessica Simpson had a major role in the movie, again
you would be wrong. Jessica had about 6 scenes in the whole movie, and
those were not very impressive. The film did not capitalize on the
rivalry between Zack and Vince to a point where it was real. You knew
the story before it happened and who was going to get the girl. You can
skip this, because it isn't worth the ticket price. (Lionsgate, Run
time 1:43, Rated PG-13)(3/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this too at a sneak preview and I was not disappointed. Dane Cook
is a really funny guy and this movie showed it. I liked the story line
and their characters. I noticed that Jessica Simpson only had like 20
lines and they probably just used her to sell the movie with the
posters. Dax was funny as the bitter rival for Dane Cook's Zack. Andy
Dick was refreshing as was the rest of the supporting cast. The
Napoleon Dynamite dynasty keeps expanding with Efren's take on Vince's
sidekick. The story was great and there are many funny scenes in this
movie that makes it cool to work at one of those stores. Great movie,
good laughs! I'd watch it again. There are some little twists to some
parts of the movies and the end is alright, could be better though.
Over all, good movie, great laughs, fun time! I'd watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised to find this movie was way better then I
expected. Some of the humor is a little subtle for what you might
expect. One scene I liked was toward the end when the box boy gang is
coming down the main aisle with Zack next to the Andy Dick character
who can barely see thru his coke bottle glasses. Dick starts veering
off to the side and Zack puts his arm out and pulls him back and they
continue on as if realigning someones walk is a normal event. The movie
isn't intended to reinvent Shakespeare but some of the harsher
reviewers seem to judge it in that light. I thought Jessica Simpson was
a good choice for her part. Any lack of acting ability fit the part
just fine and works. It was a pleasant and funny movie to watch and
never resorted to throwing in four letter words just to do it like so
many movies will do.
<|_=00=_|>
On face value, 'Employee of the Month' looks pretty bad and after
seeing it, it's not that great of a movie by any means but it isn't as
terrible as it looked. It doesn't have anything new to offer but some
of the jokes work well and the sequences with Cook and Shepard
competing against each other do make one chuckle. It's certainly
forgettable but can be enjoyed in parts (for a one time watch). The
actors playing Zack's friends were very annoying especially Andy Dick.
It doesn't help that they're given terrible lines. Zack's grandma is
the funniest character. Dane Cook is quite likable as the competing
employee but it is Dax Shepard who steals the show as the obnoxious
arrogant employee of the month who takes an awful lot of pride in
himself. Jessica Simpson's role doesn't require much except for her to
look good. She seems to compensate for any shortcomings by giving the
viewer more than a glimpse of cleavage...on multiple occasions
throughout the film. Tim Bagley is funny as the boss. Overall, it's a
silly film that doesn't require more than a one time watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I know Jessica Simpson was horrible in this movie,but hey! What movie
was she ever good in? Dane Cook does a good role,and Dax Shepard was
what made me love this movie. He was hilarious,and the only movie i saw
with him before Employee of the Month was Without A Paddle. Overall,a
good movie suitable for at least six stars. I wonder why Dax didn't win
a award for this movie. I also thought Efren Ramirez was hysterical.
The movie is lacking some key elements of a good movie,but people take
this movie too seriously....i mean,come on. Its just another PG-13
movie with a lot of rude remarks. But if you want to see a good movie
with Dane Cook, Dax Shepard, Andy Dick and Harland Williams watch this
movie.....you cant be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
It was a free loan from my library, and it is just over 90 minutes, a
perfect time-killer for a Friday. And it does have cute and stacked
Jessica Simpson. With a very low IMDb rating (5.0 right now) I didn't
expect too much. The movie makes fun of the gangs of misfits that run
big warehouse stores like Sam's and Costco. In fact one shot showed
Kirkland merchandise which is a Costco brand.

Dane Cook plays Zack, a classic underachiever who just wants to hang
onto his job and content to be a box boy -- the one who gets empty
boxes and brings them to the check-out area. If he can come in late by
having a co-worker punch in his time clock, so much the better.

Dax Shepard plays Vince who is just the opposite. He is the number 1
checker, famous for the "show" he puts on for customers, and has set
the record for fastest checker in the SW. He has won 'employee of the
month' for 17 straight months and, if he accomplished an 18 straight,
he wins a 'newish' 2002 car on display. He would love to replace his
1981 Honda with 230,000+ miles.

The comedy arises because Zack and Vince are each other's nemesis.
Vince is stuck on himself, is sure he will win the car, and Zack wants
to thwart that. Plus, a new checker shows up. Jessica Simpson is Amy
the new checker and Zack finds out from her confidential personal
folder that she goes for 'employee of the month' types. He is smitten
with her and now has two reasons to win, so he decides he will win for
the current month. It isn't easy, but he starts to make progress in his
goal, to the consternation of Vince who does what he can to prevent it.
Plus, Zack and Amy start to get friendly.

Efren Ramirez who was great as Pedro in 'Napoleon Dynamite' is Jorge, a
bagger who works with Vince. Andy Dick is funny as Lon, who can hardly
see but runs the eye department.

SPOILERS. The info on Amy was not right, her former boyfriend had been
employee of the month at a former store, but she was just a normal
person. In a final show-down in the store, after Zack and Vince had
tied, each with 15 stars for daily achievement, Vince beat Zack by a
second or two. But at the awards ceremony, the security guard came up
with a videotape that showed Vince was passing some items behind his
back to the bagger/boxer, meaning it wasn't scanned. Not only was he
cheating in the contest, he was giving away merchandise, and had been
for months. He was fired, Zack won, got the girl, and 6 months later we
see Vince on parole, with an ankle monitoring device. Funniest scene,
Vince and Jorge in a car at night, putting pantyhose over their heads
before breaking into Zack's home to change his clocks, Vince comments
on a bad odor. "Where did you get these, Jorge?" The answer, "From my
mother's gym bag." A bit crude, but very funny.
