
Something I often find bothersome in 'time travel fiction' is that
there is usually a large chunk of the storytelling dedicated to the
tedium of explaining 'how' time travel works, particularly when time
travel is merely a device to aid the storytelling. We don't really need
to know the science behind it because, simply put, science can neither
logically explain its paradoxical nature, nor prove or dispute its
possibility. "The Time Traveler's Wife" never makes pretenses to the
science behind it, rather it centers its focus on the story.

At the heart of this film is a love story and the complexities that
people bring to their relationships. What I liked most was its
metaphorical allusion to the distance in relationships and how the
important people in our lives stay with us even after they are gone.
The scenes between Henry and young Clare were especially moving because
they took literally the notion of feeling like you have known someone
your whole life. It's kind of like when you share stories from your
past with friends and significant others, retelling them time and again
until your experiences are indistinguishable from theirs, except in the
case of Henry and Clare, the experiences are real if not linear.

Just go and watch it. Decide for yourself if you like it. Just don't
dwell too much on the technicalities. After all, Scientific Theorists
have been slamming their heads against the wall on the matter of time
travel for centuries. Take the story for what it is and enjoy the ride.
<|_=00=_|>
8 times and counting. That's how many times I've read the book. The
episodic structure of the novel is such that it's easy to dip in and
out of, even if you're reading other things. You can quite easily spend
an hour or a day with Henry and Claire whenever you wish.

When I found out that they were making a movie of the book, my initial
reaction was how? There's far too much to cram into a two hour movie.
Surely they'd be better making a mini- series?

The fact is, that they leave a lot of things out of the movie.
Characters who you'd assume would be quite important are given very
little screen time, or excised completely. Also, the ending of the
novel isn't used, only the spirit of the ending. The book's ending was
filmed, however, so maybe it'll turn up as a DVD extra for all the
purists out there.

You know what though? The movie is great. It's perfectly cast, and
instead of concentrating on every minute detail that made the book a
joy to read, it concentrates solely on the boy- meets-girl-out-of-time
concept, and plays out a love story over an evening-sized slice of
time. 

Lots of people have complained that their favourite part from the book
isn't in it (Rachel's disastrous first date with another man and
Henry's revenge for it, The Gomez situation, Ingrid, Christmas at
Meadowlark etc) but really, there is enough in this movie to sustain it
and to give any newcomers to the story a decent enough reason to run
off and read the book to fill in the blanks. Those people especially
are in for a treat, as while the movie does have it's moments of high
drama, there is a noticeable lack of darkness, which the book has in
spades. Also kudos must go to Bruce Joel Rubin for the writing of a
brand new scene featuring a time travelling Henry and his mother on a
subway train, which slotted in perfectly to the TTW world.

Rachel McAdams makes a stunning Claire, her scenes revolving around the
pregnancy issues they have are completely believable and heartfelt.
Early reports suggested Eric Bana wasn't up to snuff in his performance
of Henry. I can only assume those reviewers had been watching a very
rough cut, as I thought he was fantastic. Special mention also to
Arliss Howard as Henry's dad, and Stephen Tobolowsky as Kendrick, who
both go to demonstrate how scenes can be stolen with very limited
screen time.

For everyone who's going in expecting the book, lower your
expectations. It isn't the book. What it is, is a condensed version of
the main love story from the book, played out perfectly with respect
for the text. I enjoyed the movie immensely, and am looking forward to
seeing it again. If I want the book, I'll read the book. My imagination
is perfectly capable of providing me with the visuals I need. However,
from now on, if I want to spend the evening with the DeTambles and let
someone else do the work, I'll be watching the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a massive fan of the book and had been following the production
of this movie for a long time anticipating the release date. I had set
my expectations pretty low so as to not be disappointed and decided to
just enjoy the film for what it was.

I was overjoyed by how true to the book the film stayed, only varying
in a few unimportant places, the film dared to be as heart breaking and
sad as the book and did not feel the need to justify the logistics of
the time travel instead choosing to summarise it in the first
scene.(People who feel this was not explained do not have the
imagination needed to fully enjoy this film).

The ageing of Eric Bana's character was seamless and it was easy to
tell whether he was a younger or older version of Henry and Rachel
McAdams brought out the inner frustrations of Claire's character with a
great sensitivity showing the difficulties of the relationship.

Overall, this film was not a let down to a lover of the book, I enjoyed
it as an extension of the story of Henry and Claire and found the
emotions real and well developed. A definite must-see for all fans and
those who haven't read the book but who just enjoy a good love story!
<|_=00=_|>
I had read the book three times when it first came out, so I was
excited when I got tickets to an advance screening. I was just hoping
they didn't ruin the book. I know films can't be like the books, so I
carefully did not re-read it.

They did an awesome job with the film. They captured the story, the
flavor, the essence of the book, even if they did have to leave some
things out. I loved the girls playing Alba.

There was laughing at the funny parts and some crying at the sad. My
sister loved it. She had no intentions of reading it and only went
because I had tickets. She was sniffly when we left and now has the
book.

Notice to guys who like blow em ups. This is a romantic chick flick!
Though the one guy I had talked to in line was crying as we left. He
did say he loved it.

I would have given it a nine if some of the scenes hadn't been filmed
in the dark like a lot of Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Time Traveler's Wife" is a heart-warming love story, and will keep
you entertained until the final credits appear. The performances are
superb, the pacing is fantastic, and the emotional sensation you
experience is easily worth the price of admission.

I recommend anyone looking for a unique love story to see this film.
Paying homage to memorable classic such as; "Somewhere in Time" and
"It's a Wonderful Life,"it will easily be something that should find a
home in your living room shelves.

It emits a cinematic glow that hasn't been seen in years while cleverly
conveying an educational message; 

"Never let go of the one you love, and cherish him/her always."

Don't let this sparkling gem pass you by...
<|_=00=_|>
The Time Traveler's Wife is a romantic drama directed by Robert
Schwentke, adapted from Audrey Niffenegger's bestseller of the same
name. Adapting a novel with complex elements and undertones to the
silver screen is a daunting task and director Robert Schwentke
struggled to compromise between satisfying readers of the novel and
making the movie accessible to people unfamiliar with the book.
Overall, the movie has some significant directing and screen writing
flaws but does make for an unpretentious and above-average romantic
tragedy thanks to its two compelling leads.

Sypnosis: The Time Traveler's Wife is the time-defying love story of
Henry DeTamble (Eric Bana) and Clare Abshire (Rachel McAdams). Henry is
a librarian afflicted with a genetic disease that causes him to travel
through time more or less randomly. Henry's random and unpredictable
escapades are often dangerous, terrifying and sometimes
life-threatening ordeals because he ends up buck-naked and starving in
unknown places and times. For those reasons, Henry keeps himself in top
physical shape and taught "himself" all type of survival skills such as
pick-pocketing, street fighting, or picking locks. After a random
while, he always goes back to his "present" but is largely unable to
affect his future. At age 28, he meets 20-yr old Clare Abshire. He
doesn't know her but she has known him since she was 6 and has been
waiting for him all her life and will do so the rest of her life...

The main weaknesses of the movie can be traced back to trying to fit
the book into 107 minutes. Director Robert Schwentke and screenwriter
Bruce Joel Rubin appeared a bit over-matched and took the path of least
resistance, oversimplifying the plot and characters. The book was a bit
confusing at times because of its particular narrative structure and
the movie inherits the same problem. Screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin made
some compromises to keep the movie from becoming excessively long or
inaccessible to its PG-13 audience. The main events and characters of
the book were translated to the big screen although non-essential
characters such as Kimi or Ingrid were completely omitted and the
ending was slightly altered (and I liked it). The supporting characters
are a mere passing thoughts, the key relationship between Clare and
Gomez is one-dimensional. Even the two main characters, Henry and
Clare, are under-developed. Ideally, the direction of the movie should
have been given to a director with better credentials, and the movie
extended up to 140 minutes to develop the characters fully and take
advantage of the terrific cast.

Despite those shortcomings, The Time Traveler's Wife is one of those
movies you can't help but like. It is at heart a simple star-crossed
love story with a refreshing sci-fi twist that touches on universal
themes such as fate/free will, true love, and loss. A story that
focused on the depth of the characters' love, not its showiness. Their
will to move forward and enjoy every minute they have with each other
before Henry's impending fate. This meant more close-up shots and a
deeper and more realistic exploration of what it means to be Henry and
Clare. The movie succeeds in moving the audience thanks in big part to
moving performances from the two leads, who surrendered themselves
fully to the premise of the novel.

The Time Traveler's Wife features the graceful Rachel McAdams as the
title character. Most will have missed her terrific performance in the
2008 indie the Lucky Ones and this puts her back on the radar for
mainstream audiences. Beside matching the description of Clare in the
book, McAdams has an unusual ability to make her characters feel real
against all odds. Overcoming an underwritten character, she carries the
emotional weight of the movie and was luminous portraying Clare's
spirit and unyielding love for Henry's despite being riddled with some
terrible lines once again. Will someone give Rachel McAdams a meatier
role for God's sake??? Eric Bana was a big surprise, exceeding my
expectations and making for a very solid Henry. Although he does not
fit the physical description of the book (Henry is more runner than
football player) Bana's Henry was tormented, introverted, poignant, and
more importantly, had considerable chemistry with his co-star. The only
issue I had was that Henry was mostly a one-note character. The
supporting cast was solid albeit given very little opportunity to be
memorable. Gomez (Ron Livingstone) was a pivotal character in the book
but merely a passing thought in the movie. Jane McLean as Charisse,
Arliss Howard as Henry's father, Stephen Tobolowsky as Dr. Kendrick all
did a fine job with the small parts they had.

The cinematography has a beautiful stark and cold quality to it which
reinforce the tragic nature of the movie. The movie was beautifully
shot by Florian Ballhaus and is the strongest attribute of the movie
behind its leads. The crafty camera-work using motion and placement
selection gave a particular tone to his scenes and Schwentke used that
to his advantage in the film, giving the movie a light touch of
fantasy. He created a nice immersing atmosphere that really highlighted
Clare and Henry's impending fate. The CGI effects of Henry's time
traveling are unspectacular but first rate while the overused musical
score was melancholic, adding to the tragic tone of the movie.

Enjoy the Time Traveler's Wife for what it is: an endearing love story
with an unusual sci-fi premise. It may not be exactly like the book, it
may have been darker and heavier on the sci-fi, and it may have been so
much more with better direction. Even so, the premise of the story, and
the perfectly-cast leads make this movie well-worth the ride and will
keep your imagination lingering long afterward.

B+: Boasting terrific performances and chemistry from Rachel McAdams
and Eric Bana, the Time Traveler's Wife has some flaws but is a
charming, endearing and bittersweet romantic drama nonetheless.

http://anomalousmaterial.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
This was much better than expected. The premise seemed far-fetched, to
put it mildly. But the movie worked on a number of different levels
based on the screenplay, directing, beautiful cinematography, and
acting, not just of the always captivating Rachel McAdams, but also the
much underrated Eric Bana as the co-lead, and the rest of the
supporting cast.

The basic plot is Eric Bana (Henry) is afflicted with being
involuntarily sent through time. He has no control about the time or
places where he is sent. At some point, he meets with Rachel McAdams
(Clare), drops in and out of her life, they fall in love and marry.
However, as one can easily imagine, the downsides of involuntary time
travel takes its toll. The movie could have easily have spun out of
control and ended up a total mess, but the movie actually works quite
nicely.

The plot could be a collaborative effort of the late Rod Serling (of
Twilight Zone fame) with bizarre, science fiction type plots and
Nicholas Sparks, the author of countless sticky sweet love stories
(i.e.  "The Notebook").

I liked this movie, but I realize this might not be everybody's cup of
tea. I would say stick with it & you'll be glad you didn't give up & go
see "Halloween II" across the hall (as I was tempted to do). I've seen
them both. Believe me when I say "Time Traveler" is the better of the
two.
<|_=00=_|>
When I entered this one, I thought it would be another Kate
Hudson/Matthew McConaughey, Richard Gere/Julia Roberts,Diane Lane,
wuvvy-duvvey-cutesy-wootsy boring predictable love movie.

I was completely wrong. We've all seen movies that involve time travel
and this one is near the top.

It shows the reality of a relationship between two individuals who have
to deal with the negative effects of time travel in a close
relationship.

This movie had me near tears at the end, which is truly sad since I
haven't cried since the movie Beaches.

The only thing I didn't like about this movie was that I found myself
trying to figure out this mans time travel and if it made sense. There
are a few loose ends left untied.

Other than that, the two leads were solid and the movie is
entertaining. I wouldn't rush out to see it, but it is definitely worth
renting.
<|_=00=_|>
On a cold winter's night Clare (Rachel McAdams) confesses to her
husband Henry (Eric Bana), "I wouldn't change a second of our life
together." McAdams and Bana are both beautiful and amazing in Director
Robert Schwentke's "The Time Traveler's Wife" based on the bestselling
novel by Audrey Niffenegger. "The Time Traveler's Wife" adapted by
screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin is a bitter sweet and strange love story.
It is not perfect; although, it ends perfectly. There is a timeless and
yearning quality that engages in "The Time Traveler's Wife". However,
Schwentke and Rubin might have leveraged sharper emotional arcs at
particular narrative points. During the course of their lives, Clare
and Henry experience tragedy and joy. In spite of this, Rachel McAdams
is stunning. I am in love with her. Bana is powerful and moving.

In a heartbreaking scene Clare (McAdams) tells Henry (Bana), "Do you
think I wanted this life?" Time Traveler Henry indiscriminately
vanishes to different places in time and space. Interesting to that
end, this seems to follow "The Terminator" rule: Henry can only travel
through time naked. Also interesting to note that Bana as Henry is a
muscular 6'3", which makes finding clothes that fit wherever he arrives
difficult. I digress. The point is McAdams captures both Clare's
humanity and angst. She embodies an authenticity in Clare. Eric Bana
displays a strength and gentleness. His Henry travels to the future and
meets his lovely 10 year old daughter Alba (amazing Hailey McCann). He
gazes upon Alba with such love when she says, "I love you Daddy!"
Underlying it all, "The Time Traveler's Wife" is about legacy and
everlasting love. So regardless of some clumsy repetitive narrative
loops and circular logic, McAdams and Bana make you care about their
love story.

We first see 6 year old Henry (good Alex Ferris) singing with his mom
Annette (beautiful and strong Michelle Nolden) in a car. Tragedy
befalls, and Henry's Time Traveler abilities are revealedalso by the
grown up Henry (Bana). But for Henry this seems more curse than gift.
Then one day Clare sees Henry in a Chicago library, and says, "It's
you!" Apparently, older Henry has been visiting Clare since she was 6
years old. She says that he seems to keep visiting the same places.
Henry replies, "Yeah. It's like gravity." Clare has been in love with
Henry her entire life.

It turns out that Henry has a genetic defect that is the cause of his
time travel. To that end he seeks out, and finally convinces the
bewildered Dr. Kendrick (solid Stephen Tobolowsky) of his plight. But
what does this foreshadow about Clare and Henry having a family and
their life together? Director Schwentke sort of telegraphs the painful
narrative twist. Then he recovers and resolves perfectly and eloquently
as Henry regrets, "I can't stay" Ultimately, "The Time Traveler's
Wife" is about lifeits joy, fragility, and mortality. Things just
happen, not necessarily for a reason. And if you take a chance and find
the love of your life, then it is life worth having lived. I loved "The
Time Traveler's Life".
<|_=00=_|>
The Time Traveler's Wife (PG-13, 1:46)  SF, 2nd string, original, OSIT
romantics

This is the movie that Benjamin Button aspired to be. It's the tale of
an unusual man, a man who does not experience time the way everybody
else does, and of the woman who loves him anyway. Unlike Button, their
sheer humanity and love of life make us actually care. Clearly SF, The
Time Traveler's Wife has none of the superficiality of character all
too common to the genre; indeed, it's as sincere and genuine a love
story as you'll ever find in the movies.

The "time traveler" is not the unnamed Edwardian Era protagonist of H.
G. Wells's The Time Machine. In fact, this one has a name  Henry
DeTamble  and he lives in some vaguely contemporary time period. As
the movie opens, we seem him at age 6, happily singing "Jingle Bells"
while riding in a car driven by his mother thru a driving rainstorm.
Their car gets clipped, Henry gets banged up a bit, and the shock
triggers his 1st time jump. Mere seconds later, he returns to the side
of the road and watches horrified as his mother, frantically twisting
around to search the back seat for her suddenly missing son, fails to
see the big truck bearing down on her. And moments after that, his
future self (Eric Bana) arrives to assure him that things will get
better.

It is left to the viewer to imagine how Henry must have felt about his
own role in his mother's death. We learn that he doesn't have much
control over when he will dematerialize, except that it often seems to
be triggered by stress or excitement, so we can imagine the effect this
would have on his love life. And he's sometimes gone for weeks at a
time with no believable excuse, so this gives us a clue about his job
security.

Thus it's no surprise that he's a bit of a mess when, working his
Chicago job as a research librarian, he's approached by Clare Abshire,
a woman he's never seen before, who professes that she's been in love
with him for decades  and that it's been mutual. How messed up is he?
Well, he's standing there with Rachel McAdams  OMG! Rachel McAdams!! 
aiming that beautiful smile and those big eyes right at him, and he's
trying to find excuses to back away. Fortunately for him and the story,
she manages to overcome his hesitation.

We learn a very few things about time traveling. Henry can travel to
times outside of his own lifetime, but most often he shows up at times
and places that occur on his own personal lifeline thru the
4-dimensional space-time monobloc. It's only his body that makes the
trip, which means that usually his 1st task on arrival is finding
clothes. There's apparently a genetic (not mechanical or quantum) basis
for his ability (or affliction), and this leads him to seek aid from
Dr. David Kendrick. In a moment reminiscent of transparent aluminum,
Henry informs Dr. Kendrick that future scientists will know him as the
inventor of the phrase "chrono displacement"; the few other paradoxes
are equally subtle.

But the movie isn't so much about time travel as it is about Henry and
Clare's profound and enduring love for each other under trying
circumstances. Not since Christopher Reeve pined away forlornly for
Jane Seymour in Somewhere in Time (1980, haunting theme by John Barry)
has this theme been done so well in SF.

Henry, Clare, and their star-crossed relationship take up most of the
screen time. But, like a diamond set off by smaller jewels, McAdams and
Bana are surrounded by exquisite little gems from the supporting
performers, notably Brooklynn Proulx as young Clare and the McCann
sisters, Hailey and Tatum, as their dotter Alba at ages 10 and 5.

No film is perfect, and this one isn't either, but I have to single out
one niggling detail that kept distracting me thruout this movie and
most other ones that Eric Bana has appeared in. It's this: Somebody
should introduce the guy to either a razor or the concept of a beard. I
don't care how devoted Rachel McAdams is to you, if you look like
you're always coming off a perpetual hangover, it's gonna wear off.
