
I went to see this movie with my wife and, upon entering the theater,
immediately became uncomfortable. There was only one other man at the
screening and he was obviously feeling a little out of place as well
(although he seemed relieved to see me walk in). I was expecting a teen
soap opera, but what the movie delivered was quite different. This
movie is more like a modern-times "Little Women" or a teen girl version
of "Dead Poets Society". In other words, it's something that I haven't
seen any sign of for decades....an intelligent drama aimed at teenage
girls. My response to seeing this movie was similar to how i felt after
seeing "Babe". I know this is an odd comparison, but both were
thoughtful, intelligent movies aimed at a target audience that is
usually fed cinematic rubbish. The elements of good film-making are on
full display here. Strong acting, sure-handled directing, terrific
writing....everything that makes a movie great. If you are a teenage
girl or have one in your life, this is an absolutely must-see movie. If
you don't, you'll still have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
This weekend, for my sisters 16th birthday, I ventured out with my
father, mother and of course sister to see a movie. When we arrived at
the theater I was briefed on which movie we were going to see, without
a doubt thinking it would be some new action packed thriller that my
dad, always forced my mom and sister to. I had no clue that we were
going to see the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants. 

The worst part of the movie was forcing myself into a theater where I
was one of about 6 guys. The rest of the seats were packed with girls
of all ages, older women, teens, mothers, college grads, you name it.
One would have thought Brad Pitt was making announcement before the
show began. In case you didn't know all girls are obsessed with him,
especially the ones who deny it. 

Anyways the movie began and before I knew it my eyes were glued to the
screen. Next thing I knew I was crying, my mom was crying, my sister
was crying, and even my dad was crying. I looked around the room and
noticed that every girl was sobbing, and of course you know when your
watching an amazing movie when it causes such emotion. When it changes
the way you feel and enlightens you in unbelievable ways.

So the moral of the story: All the women out there grab your
girlfriends, or better yet your husbands, boyfriends, or whomever and
drag them to this film, they will say they'll hate it, but they will
love it!
<|_=00=_|>
The only magic realism in The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is the
one, one-size-fits-all pair of jeans worn the four female friends,
whose summer adventures bring a dose of realism magical only for the
insights into life, the pain and pleasure that come in from age
seventeen to the end. As a coming-of-age film, this ranks with the best
of them for non-condescending, adult-like perceptions, with nary a
"like" in the girls' vocabulary.

Two of these lifelong chums have summer romances that transcend the
usual sun and sand trifles; the other two deal with even more
substantial challenges, ones that involve connecting with family or
friends after years of disconnection. Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants
offers no easy solutions to questions about openness, sexuality,
parental neglect, and death. Rather each girl has an epiphany that
grows naturally out of the frustrations accompanying inexperience and
immaturity.

Love on a Greek island while riding a scooter like Audrey Hepburn
through the streets of Rome demands confronting the intrusions of
family reminiscent of Romeo and Juliet; love on a beach in Mexico
unleashes longing for a parent that goes beyond a beautiful boy; a new
life for a parent means the death of an old one for a child; and teen
alienation turns to acceptance and even love through the magic of a new
friend.

None of these realistic setups for teen enlightenment can make an
engaging film unless the actresses are believable, and in Sisterhood
each young woman carries her role with deftness and sincerity sometimes
not found in the most seasoned actresses. Special recognition should be
given to Jenna Boyd as 12-year old Bailey, who believably transforms
one teen from misogynist to humanist. This little actress has the chops
to win the Oscar someday.

The ten rules of the sisterhood are dominated by the logistical one
that states, "You must pass the pants along to your sisters according
to the specifications set down by the Sisterhood." FedEx does the
delivery; the girls supply the specific adventures that echo the
anguish and resilience of being a teen in a society that sometimes
doesn't care. You will care for each girl; I guarantee it as if it were
a pair of Levis, sturdy and malleable, sexy and comfortable. Come to
think of itthat's Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film in Indianapolis in early May before the official
theatrical release. I am one of the judges for the Heartland Film
Festival that screens films for their Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "...explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

The sisterhood consists of four teenage girls. And each of the girls
are special. They are each intelligent and introspective. And they take
the important things in their lives in a mature, serious way. These
important things include their personal lives, their personal
development, their families, and the history of their families.

And the sisterhood is special too. Not because of the "trick" of the
one pair of pants fitting four physically different girls, but because
the girls care for each other and supply support for each other in a
mature way that takes most of us decades to learn. They are there for
each other for no ulterior motive. They help each other because there
is a goodness and wisdom and healthiness in helping another human
being.

The four girls are equals in this movie. Not only are they equal in
terms of their importance to each other, but also in time in front of
the camera. This is not a star vehicle for one of these young
actresses. Their relationship is the star of this movie.

FYI - There is a Truly Moving Picture web site where there is a listing
of past winners going back 70 years.
<|_=00=_|>
Originally I had to read this book as part of my job reviewing fiction
that is aimed at teens through young adults. The most recent trend I've
noticed is the current uprise in books that talk about the real B****es
of the high school world. The sex scandals, the drug busts, the foul
mouthed youth...I'm only twenty and books like these have me saying
"What's with those kids today" This book wasn't about that. It was
about something really admirable that I would hope to read more of, an
honest friendship. Plus it was well written to the point I was *EAGER*
to finish it. (A note to those who haven't read...the audio book is one
of the best read I've heard in ages and is worse the listen, it has the
same actress as the initial trailer announcer) So I became a fan of the
book and have been following this movie ever since, and as a fan I have
to say that their are elements I would have liked to see in the movie,
but the cut (or at least the cut at the screening) was lengthy but
appropriate and did the best I think they could have to capture the
book.

The real heart of this movie though is between the chemistry of the
main actresses. Most of them are playing parts a good five to six years
under their actual age, and yes they don't all fit the images I had in
the book...but it's what they present that shows off. I think it's the
added and personal experience these girls have had to go through in
real life, mostly from age and experience that helps them to really
develop these characters. I admire these girls friendships and
connections, and at the same time I envy them...and even further on,
it's seems a little too hopeful for it's own good. The world would be a
better place if people could hold on like these girls do, through thick
and thin, death and marriage.

Still, this movie is an excellent movie for teen audiences, and it has
a lot more depth than recent fluffbits based on novels and old stories
(See Ice Princess, A Cinderella Story, Confessions of a Teenage Drama
Queen, etc.) It also has enough older audience humor to relate to all
ages, but not to the dark (albeit funny...in a twisted sort of way)
point of popular hits such as Meangirls. Personally I think it would
have done better to have been released around mothers day as it's a
movie definitely targeted at the female group. Mom's...you'll like
this, because it's not quite to the sappy point of the notebook and
retains a lot of good-natured humor. (at the same time you may not
because it does discuss some teen issues...and it might insight
conversations with the offspring) As a guy though...I still think it
was pretty damn funny, in a heartfelt sort of way.
<|_=00=_|>
My 10 year old daughter and I went to see this yesterday. I haven't
read the books, but she has. We had mixed reviews...I enjoyed the movie
but Elizabeth was terribly disappointed. She kept whispering "Mom,
that's not in the book"..."that didn't happen that way"...and
apparently some pretty major discrepancies exist. 

Because I didn't have any plot expectations. I thought the movie was
well done. The characters were believable, the acting was great, the
topics were handled in a manner that was suitable for my pre-teen to
watch. The comments I overheard from the other audience members (99%
teenage girls at this Friday matinée!) were positive. 

My rating is a combination of my score (8 or 9) and her score (4 or 5).
So just a word of caution...if you expect the move to follow the book,
you may be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
We often have expectations that a movie will follow a book to the
letter. Due to time limitations, creative ideas, etc. the film makers
often need to adjust the story from the book to fit the film. As a
lover of both books and film I ask that those who turn a book into a
film follow the spirit and the feeling of the book. I believe the
Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants director and screenwriters did just
that.

Basically the book tells the story of 4 teenage girls who are
experiencing their first summer apart ever, since they have known each
other since birth. Unbelievably, they find a pair of jeans which fits
each girl amazingly well, although they have very different body
shapes. They take this to mean the pants hold some sort of magic, so
promise to send the pants to each other throughout the summer and use
it as a way of keeping in touch with each other (thus - the traveling
pants). The pants are sent from Tibby (staying at home) to Bridget (in
Baja California, Mexico at Soccer camp) to Carmen (with her father in
North Carolina) to Lena (visiting her grandparents in Greece).

Three of the story lines are very true to the book, although with
slight variations. Tibby's storyline is almost a perfect match to the
book, Bridget's is close, and Carmen's is slightly varied showing her
in a less mature light than in the book. Lena's story, on the other
hand, is told completely in reverse of the book. However, I can
understand the need to make this change, as the twists and turns of
Lena's story in the book would have been difficult to project onto
film. The end result: the girls experience the same issues in the movie
as they did in the book, and they change in the way the book indicated.
The "feel" of the movie is the same as that in the book.

This film is truly a coming of age story about young high school girls.
It is beautifully filmed with lovely scenery from both Greece and
Mexico. The actors portraying the young girls are very well cast and
match the descriptions from the book. As a librarian, I can tell you
that no movie can ever equal the movie you make in your head while you
are reading a book. But, this movie is beautiful in its own right, and
a lovely story of growing up female and experiencing love, passion,
death, and disappointment. The girls learn that the love and friendship
they share will help them to get through all the issues of growing up.
<|_=00=_|>
You know how sometimes when you go to the movies and you wonder if the
movie you are seeing will be worth your money? Well, this movie was
definitely worth my money and maybe even more so. "The Sisterhood of
the Traveling Pants" was a great movie, quite possibly one of the best
that will come out this year because of--among other things--the
friendship it upholds, and I highly recommend it. There should be more
movies out there like this, that show that no matter what, your friends
truly matter. This movie teaches us that we should make sure that we
have friendships like the sisterhood, and if we don't, we should do
everything in our power to make all of our relationships with others
stronger to last through anything that could happen.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie seems to have spunk, mixed in with drama and comedy. For
anyone who reads the books, this movie will probably not disappoint
you. With a great cast, this is the perfect chick flick for anyone who
feels like laughing, crying, or to just have a good movie experience.
It is also the perfect date movie. For any couple who just feels like
seeing a great movie to sit back and to great ready to laugh and cry.
This movie is also a perfect combination of comedy and drama as well as
a perfect movie to see with a bunch of friends. See this movie on a
free Saturday. Grab the popcorn, the soda, and the candy. Get ready for
a fun movie experience that will surely not disappoint, only enlighten.
So everyone, if there is one movie you must see, make sure this movie
is at the top of your list.
<|_=00=_|>
For starters, i have to admit that i'm 21 and really enjoy the books
(all 3 of them). Because of that i was pretty excited to see the film,
even though i know it couldn't live up to the book. Sadly, i was
correct.

The acting was actually quite good, as was the casting. The only
character i didn't like the casting choice, regardless of the fact that
she did a fine job, was Tibby. Tibby, in the book, is described as
small, meek, and undeveloped. She didn't look/act that way, really.

The stories themselves were decent. Carmen and Bridget's were almost
dead on (minus the fact that they left out a vital scene in the end of
Bridget's). Tibby's pretty accurate, but they left out a whole lot.
Lena's was completely changed, which i didn't understand why they did.

It's a teen chick flick so you expect insane cheesy moments. And the
film is full of them. The soundtrack was horrible, in my opinion,
making the film even more ridiculous at times. There were laugh out
loud parts that probably shouldn't have been that funny.

I think if you're a 12-15 year old girl, this movie is great for you
(or if you like teen chick flicks). It covers the crucial topics
addressed in the book, but lacks the depth Brashares originally had. I
suggest seeing it just to see it, but don't expect too much.

Also, if you're a guy, stay away. There were maximum 10 guys in the
theatre when i saw it and each one looked 1/2 dead in the end.
