
I am always amazed at how hard it is to make a decent low budget
comedy. One would think that comedies and dramas would be the easiest
genres to film on a limited budget, yet time and time again, they fail
to deliver.

After hearing such amazing buzz for The Foot Fist Way, I was very
excited to see if this "little comedy that could" would actually
deliver. The result, however, was a very mixed bag.

The acting is very good for a film of this caliber, except for the
woman who plays the adulterous wife. During several scenes at the
beginning of the film, she is shocking bad, and it takes away from the
believability of the scenes.

The comedy, when it hits, is very funny... but it is quite obvious why
Will Ferell has put so much praise on this film. It is essentially a
very vulgar no-budget version of one of his films. The Tae Kwon Do
instructor is essentially playing Will Ferell, playing this character.
At times, he's very funny - but its nothing groundbreaking.

The film really disappoints in its pacing. Every outcome is extremely
obvious, and many scenes go on for way too long. One scene in
particular, in which the instructor tries to come on to a female
student, really outlasts its welcome and goes from mildly amusing to
aggravating by its end. The final scene, meant to feel somewhat
victorious, comes off flat and humorless.

The Foot Fist Way does deliver some very good belly laughs from time to
time, but sadly comes out like most low-budget comedies. Its sad to
say, but had this project been given a Hollywood budget, a script
polish, and some stars, it would have been much more fun.

Skip it in theaters. Give it a rental if you're intrigued.
<|_=00=_|>
This film made me laugh a lot which is rare. It's an original (and
let's face it that's rare) subject and was made in just 19 days shot in
North Carolina. It's low budget and has some endearing characters (some
of the kids rock) in it. It also actually shows people how they look in
real life e.g. acne on their face which is quite shocking in itself as
we usually only see pixel perfect complexions. The characters maybe
stereotypical and shallow but who cares when the main aim is for
laughs? The main character (according to my girlfriend) is reminiscent
of Ricky Gervais in the Office (Brit comedy) but he always remains
likable. I hope these actors and directors will make it big one day and
you can impress / annoy by saying how you saw them in their early days.
If you want some good laughs and an original subject matter then go see
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I like The foot fist way very much. The reason for this is simple; it's
very realistic and human-like. Normally all movies are cool slick
Hollywood movies. Where everybody is perfect, and the good guy always
gets the beautiful girl in the end and every fight scene lasts 20
minutes,....well not in my life.

The main character of The Foot Fist Way is actually very easy to
recognize in the first place. Many people ARE like him, and many people
probably can identify with the main character. I know I can. Hell,
maybe people say I'm a loser for admitting this, but I know my life
more resembles 'the foot fist way' than it does 'Casino Royale' or 'Die
Hard'.

I practice karate, and although this movie is about Tea Kwon Do (these
sports are very similar), I can tell you that the exaggerations are
real. And there are people out there that are made off no more than hot
air.

Anyway, the 'crappy' filming makes this movie almost a documentary. And
the fact that the actors are so simple, and not famous is very
refreshing. I like real life, and I like movies that represent
real-life. The Hollywood fairy tales are awful, in my opinion. The pace
of the movie is good, and I thought is was short....I was really
entertained. And real martial arts isn't as spectacular as we get to
see in Hollywood movies, its as crappy as presented in this film. (in
the sense of 'normal' people that practice martial arts).

In my opinion the producers were successful in creating a funny movie
about things in life we all can relate to.
<|_=00=_|>
I came to this movie with talk of it being hilarious, brilliant and
having apparently been the toast of Sundance. I didn't totally believe
all the hype, mainly because that's always what the majority of such
talk is, but I did have hopes that the film would be good at what it
tries to do. Taking its lead from the painfully flawed David Brent in
The Office, The Foot Fist Way focuses on taekwondo teacher Fred Simmons
as he leads his class to be (perhaps) as good as him, fails to control
his cheating wife and idolises taekwondo champion and film star Chuck
"the truck" Wallace. In terms of narrative flow there isn't really much
that justifies discussion because, rightly, the story is only a frame
within which to put the character study of an arrogant man who has zero
self-awareness. In this there is a lot of potential and accordingly the
best parts of the film are not specific events or plot points but just
little moments that remind the viewer what a self-important and
embarrassingly pompous man we are watching.

It is not something you'll never have seen before of course and the
many other variations will show you how painfully funny (and painfully
painful) that this sort of thing can be, whether it is Spinal Tap or
David Brent. Problem is with the Foot Fist Way is that it feels like a
really good idea that has not been fully carried out. So there are
moments which are both painful and funny but then there are also lots
of scenes that are just surprisingly straightforward, failing to either
be funny or to be insightful in regards the character of Fred. It is a
shame but it does mean that the film is distinctly average. Even at a
short running time of 83 minutes, the film still struggles and
surprised me by feeling much longer  it should have sprinted and been
over before you knew what was happening.

No fault to McBride though, he feels natural and is convincing in his
character. As one of those involved in the writing he does share some
responsibility though because the script just doesn't give him enough
to work with often enough. He is the whole film though and when he has
the material then it is at its best. Bostic is a good "white-trash"
cliché but is surprisingly wooden for the majority. Best's turn is
funny and produces some narrative drive but also has the detrimental
effect of jostling for time with the comedy character study which I
thought the film should have stuck with. The style of delivery could
have been different and, although some say it is overused, I think the
"making a documentary" approach would have worked in the favour of the
material as we have seen countless other times.

I wanted to really like this film because you can see the potential but
sadly it is never fully realised. This doesn't make for a terrible film
though and it does still have its moments where things work but mostly
I felt like it was a big case of "close but no cigar" in regards the
script and the delivery. It is OK and perhaps worth a look on
television but there are much better versions of the same idea out
there, many of which leave this film looking distinctively average.
<|_=00=_|>
Surprise hit comedies are generally the ones that feature a relatively
under-exposed actor with great comedic talent in a central role. That
is what Danny McBride as Fred Simmons is supposed to be. It's not a bad
movie, but it scratches the surface of what it could be. It feels like
"The Foot Fist Way" is the very long pilot of a TV series that didn't
get picked up: like there was something more that needed to happen and
characters that needed to be developed.

The film is a small character-driven comedy created by a trio of
friends who have been nurtured by the Will Ferrell and Adam McKay
screwball character movie teat. Danny McBride, the star, Jody Hill,
director and supporting actor and Ben Best, supporting actor, all wrote
the story of Simmons, a tae kwan do instructor in Alabama who's full of
himself yet humbly insecure.

There's really no plot until halfway through the movie, giving it that
episodic "this should be broken up into smaller, fleshed out parts"
feel. Supporting characters jump in and out rather than contribute to a
flowing narrative. The only thing that stays solid is the rocky
relationship subplot between Simmons and his tall-built bimbo wife (a
rather untalented Mary Jane Bostic).

Admirably, these three amigos try and create a character for McBride
that is both a verbal machine gun of ridiculous phrases and someone who
uses that same egotistical technique to work out his emotional
problems. In other words, someone who is supposed to be hilarious but
self-revealing at the same time -- a complex goofball. Their first
trial run is hit or miss on the comedic end and just short on creating
a meaningful character. McBride is capable, but they don't really push
the concept hard enough.

A glorified TV episode might be all it is, but there's talent in this
group of aspiring comedy filmmakers.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for dumb kind of humor like in "anchorman" or
"zoolander" , or any of Adam Sandlers stuff you will be disappointed -
this low budget flick is completely different - kinda a gulp of fresh
air I must say - it's truthful, believable and even artsy to some
degree. Most of jokes are concentrated on deep sarcasm and irony and if
that's your cup of tee - I think you'll love it like I did. This movie
shows you that you don't need to go over the top to be funny and you
don't need to follow clichés to bring up some message. Of-course, it
has some pretty dumb moments by itself, but they come just at the right
time and don't ruin the atmosphere at all. I'm not saying that it's a
masterpiece, but I think it is at least worth checking out. I would
recommend it if you have some spare time to waste.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the type of movie that gets funnier each time you watch it,
just like The Big Lebowski. It takes a while to get a feel for the
level of realism (a bit more serious than Napoleon Dynamite), but when
you're finally tuned in to the wavelength of the makers, you can almost
instantly re-watch it (which will not take up too much time because
it's refreshingly short). Once you know the characters are a bit silly,
but not trying to generate cheap laughs or thrills (it must have been
tempting to let Mr. Simmons totally snap, or have an all out brawl at
the hotel room party, or let Mrs. Simmons show some more skin), the
story becomes remarkably solid.
<|_=00=_|>
This is hands down one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Don't
expect big stars, don't expect people getting hit in the nuts, and
don't expect huge testicles on a bulldog. Instead think of an
intelligent script, a couple of unknowns who do a fantastic job, and
very intelligent delivery. I can't even describe what makes this so
funny. It's just the way the whole thing is handled. You have to watch
it to believe it.

Unlike what the previous commenter said.... the main actor is NOTHING
like a Will Ferrell portrayal. In fact, it is quite the opposite. Will
Ferrell likes this movie so much because it is the type of humor he
likes, and I've seen some of his stuff when he's not scripted into a
quick buck Hollywood shitfest. It's funny. Like this is.

And the little kid Julio.... freakin' AWESOME. Just give it a try,
guys.
<|_=00=_|>
THE FOOT FIST WAY (2008) ** Danny McBride, Mary Jane Bostic, Ben Best,
Juan-Carlos Guzman, Carlos Lopez, Collette Wolfe, Ken Aguilar. One-note
comedy about a delusional strip-mall tae kwon do 'master' instructor
(tool Mc Bride who grates more than gains guffaws) whose idiotic ways
get the best of him when his sluttish wife (Bostic) cheats on him,
sending him into a whirlwind as he is attempting to lure his idol,
movie martial arts star Chuck "the Truck" Wallace (Best) for a public
appearance at his school. Newcomer Jody Hill (who has an admittedly
funny co-starring role as an intense comrade-in-arms of McBride's, and
also co-scripted with his star and Best) attempts for a "Napoleon
Dynamite" meets "The Office" mockumentary feel for awkward,
cringe-inducing comedy and has more misses than hits. Executive
produced by Will Ferrell and Adam McKay, two other delusional comic
geniuses who probably should've let the former do the heavy lifting.
<|_=00=_|>
I must have missed something because unlike everyone else i thought
this was the worst comedy i've seen in years. Danny Mc Bride maybe OK
as a supporting character but a leading man he ain't. His brand of
comedy always seems forced, he puts himself in awkward situations and
then just spouts random rubbish for 30 to 60 secs and that's it. Every
character he plays is rude and obnoxious with no redeeming features,
That can also be said about everyone else in this film apart from the
two kids. Also if your gonna do a film about martial arts it helps if
the lead actor can actually do it. Im not talking about the breaking of
the blocks, I'm talking about the one real fight scene where everything
is filmed in close so as to compensate the actors lack of ability. If i
could id give it a 0/10 i would, if i could be bothered i would sort
out the spelling and grammar of this comment but i've wasted enough of
my time on this rubbish. I can't believe watching this has made me so
angry, probably because I bought this thinking it was gonna be good. So
who really wins me moaning after the fact or the filmmakers who've just
pocketed another 6 quid and will continue to make more dross like this
thanks to me.
