
If this film wasn't about the self-indulgent filmmakers (who are the
main "actors" in the film), does anyone really care? After seeing "A
Guide to Recognizing Your Saints", I think that format works much
better, while acting as a biopic, the author/director keeps a safe
distance, instead of (in the case of this film), using the ending to
"surprise" the viewers with a "this really was our life" clich√© ending.
The big question that I couldn't answer was ... "Would I care about
these characters if I knew they weren't the directors/actors?" I'm
fairly certain I wouldn't.

The animation and pacing have merits, but the cinematography, done in
HD, is spotty at best ... maybe a thumbs up for the first gen of
filmmakers, but these days, amateur.

If you can Netflix it or see a free screening, it's worth checking out
... but for a fistful of dollars, I'm not sure it's worth the hype.

For more relationship/entanglement, I'd recommend The Puffy Chair
(Duplass Brothers, 2005), while very Soderbergh/Tony Scott (yes, _that_
Tony Scott), in terms of hand-held, grainy visuals, the story of men,
women, and the craziness when they come together, is compelling in a
raw, honest, and unpretentious way.

That's ultimately the difference ... if this were a raw and honest
film, I would recommend it, but it's ultimately pretentious and
superfluous.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently saw Four Eyed Monsters at the South by Southwest Film
Festival and out of the nearly 30 films I have seen at the fest I
believe this to be the best.

I was amazed at how emotionally honest this film was. It was able to
really get to the core of human desire and its battle with reality in a
way that few other films do (I'm sure the fact that the movie is
extremely autobiographical helps in this matter).

Arin Crumly and Susan Buice really need to be commended not only for
their amazing job at writing an incredibly touching an honest story but
for making a film that was very experimental without ever being
pretentious. They mix their fictional story with real-life interviews,
animation, different filming and editing techniques, and a bold and
fantastic ending that could have been a disaster but instead adds a
whole new layer to the movie and makes an already moving film that much
more so.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film this year at the 2005 Slamdance film festival, in Park
City Utah. Four-Eyed Monsters was a very enjoyable movie. This is a
unique film about the relationship between 2 people and their coming
together and what develops between them and it's so quirky and
different that this slice of life narrative feature works, and it works
well. With some introspective comments from both of our main characters
as well as random interviews from strangers about relationships, love
and sex. Done in way that you lean to understand what is going on
inside the heads of our couple, and compliments the overall story. This
is a digital film shot beautifully and has some creative edits, uses of
animation, time lapse photography, and other techniques which gave this
film the feeling that your are seeing something truly different and
experimental. And has some amazing and dare I say original ideas within
it, the ending left me speechless and makes the entire journey that
much more entertaining. I highly recommend watching this film, you will
not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught this film at the Waterfront Film Festival in Saugatuck,
Michigan. Going into the film, I really knew nothing about it, but I
felt I owed it to the filmmakers to go see it, since they interviewed
me, a struggling college student, the day before. Well, I'm glad I saw
it.

Four Eyed Monsters, Directed (along with a lot of other things) by Arin
Crumley and Susan Buice is an experimental film that works on a lot of
levels. It's about a couple that meet on an internet dating service and
decide to continue their relationship using only artistic mediums so
they don't fall into the trap of a traditional mundane relationship.
Throughout the film they communicate through notepads, emails, video
letters, and other things.

Watching the film I thought a lot of it was based on their own history
together (and the filmmakers confirmed this, though I don't know how
much). I really enjoyed the style of the film, they tried new things
and experimented with different shots and things, sometimes it didn't
work but a lot of the time it did.

I won't lie, I'm a dedicated festival goer, throughout the weekend I
didn't get much sleep because I watched movies all day, and Four Eyed
Monsters was one of the last movies I saw, so unfortunately their were
moments I struggled to stay awake (not because the film wasn't good).
The ending seemed a little out of place to me, and the directors
mentioned that they continue to tinker with the film throughout the
festival circuit, so it would be interesting to see what previous
versions of the film are like.

So, to sum it up, I'm sure people that only go to mainstream films in
theatres with huge budgets and huge stars won't appreciate this film.
But anyone that knows what independent films are like should check this
movie out if they can. It's a helpful film for aspiring filmmakers, and
I congratulate Susan and Arin for that, and I'd love to see what
they're working on in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this film fine, but I think I like their web episodes a lot
better than the actual movie. 

Maybe that speaks to short form content in the digital age; the movie
itself is obviously building towards an ending, a payoff that was sort
of a let down, where-as the web content had it's own loose narrative
structure that lent itself more to their type of story.

Either way, I think the way they released and marketed it was genius. 

I wish more independent films had the guts to go straight to their
fans. I live in LA, and there's 100 new movies playing every weekend,
yet I can never find a truly independent film unless I order it on
Netflix. And that means I have to wait for months after hearing about
it. I lose interest, and then when it comes, it sits on my microwave
for a week before I get around to watching it.

Filmmakers should premiere at a festival, and then launch DVD,
download, and theatrical screenings the following weekend.
<|_=00=_|>
Definitely the product of young minds, this piece may very well appeal
to the 20s crowd, who is still trying to find their place in the world,
while obsessing over every neurosis. However, I can't imagine that the
heavy amount of narcissistic navel-gazing, trite humor, or banal
subject matter would be particularly engaging to anyone over 30.
Another problem is that the peripheral characters, whom the filmmakers
obviously have nothing but contempt for, are hyped up to such absurd
caricatures for comic effect, that they fail to be relatable in any
real way. 

However, one has to give some style points to the filmmakers, who
obviously grew up in the video generation, and use every conceivable
editing trick in the book in order to spruce up an otherwise
non-existent plot. There are 2 points to remember here. First, beware
of festival darlings. Second, even though we live in the age of
youtube, not everyone's account of their mundane lives deserves big-
screen treatment. But these young filmmakers have every right to make
their film, and if others 20-somethings can find something in it to
identify with, then all the better. Yet I could not help but think at
the end of this film how this latest generation, just now coming of
age, will fare in the real world that presents so many challenges and
complications. In the age when every child is constantly reassured of
how special they are, and that they all deserve their 15 minutes of
exposure, resiliency and the ability to deal with adversity does not
exactly appear to be this generation's strong point.
<|_=00=_|>
All Hype! What better way to describe a movie about people who are
upset because they can't release their film through a mainstream
distributor? Consequently, they do it themselves. Otherwise, the hype
of the film doesn't justify the content in the film. The story is
absent and could easily be a short. The acting is poor, but the
animation and music is pretty good. Otherwise don't waste your time -
don't believe the hype! However, if you have the chance to see the film
for free, do so. Then you won't have to waste money. Still, the
filmmakers do a good job of pressing their story and creating
cliffhangers with their self-indulgent mini-series. Otherwise, they're
one hit wonders who never had a hit.
<|_=00=_|>
What brought my attention to this movie, honestly? I read it got "some
awards". I told to myself it's going to be good most probably... But it
wasn't. Sorry.

I liked creativity in expressing of authors feelings (I mean it in
using media, photos, drawings, etc. way). They told their story in an
interesting way (that deserves some stars). They indeed had few
interesting ideas. But... This story... it is, what every single
teenager and growing-up person in the World goes through... and it's
not interesting to anyone around, except a person who is in it! We all
have those moments in life and once you're older - you smile at them,
because you know it was just an "imaginary-pubertal-hormonal-bullshit"
plus "wanting to get laid" (especially 1st part of a movie) and
"feeling lonely in society".

Now, you may say. "Yes! but this is life! and this movie is about
life!" but, please, remember about one thing: we're having now
"internets" and millions of youngsters are expressing themselves online
in a very similar way: you need to do much more to be original with
your "arts" and self-expression.

It's also too long! It may be a tribute to your love, but a spectator
doesn't necessary want to see your faces from many different angles for
40 minutes (each). 

After a while I was more annoyed with personalities of those two,
rather than interested, how it will follow. Truly a "four eyed monster"
it was...

I would love to see instead a movie from an author, who has reach
personality, uses it to do interesting, useful things in life... and
shares great - maybe even Utopian - ideas. An "art for an art" itself
is not working anymore...

P.S. American way of expressing feelings on every possible occasion is
so annoying! You guys can talk for 30 minutes about a fact that you're
nervous, because you have to visit a dentist. OMG!!!

P.P.S. Oh, one more thing: perhaps I am just a bit allergic lately when
I see a picture about people, who tell a story (document?) ONLY about
themselves: "me, me, me, me, me... I am... I would like... I wish for
myself this and that...I, I, I..." Blehhh.....
<|_=00=_|>
I managed to watch Fourteen minutes deep into this movie.

First and foremost...

I had a hard time distinguishing the ugly androgynous girl and boy.

Just because you slap a bunch of Lousy video clips together does not
make it art. Probably somebody out there has no taste and will like
this garbage, and for whatever reason manage to watch it longer than I
have.

Taking a dump and eating a bagel was a lot more exciting than this
movie.

I don't know how this movie ended up in my stack of bootlegs.

but..

IT SUCKED HARD.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this movie deserves more than 6. I wouldn't be indulgent with
this two independent filmmakers because, these days, they are in good
company. I would rather underline the emotional state this movie is
able to communicate. You see catchy animations and other graphic
sequences that make you think "Yes, we are now dealing with a new
school of film-making" but at the end of the day you carry on watching
it because it a has got a cosy and delicate pace. Someone find it too
auto-biographical but in my opinion they have been good enough to make
it look as little auto-autobiographical as possible. I managed to watch
it on youtube just before they removed it but I'd still suggest to a
friend. Don't expect to be amazed but enjoy a soft and quirky
story-telling with a background of snow and dazzling voice-overs.
