
I saw this film on July 7th, 2006 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival's Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

Set in a stunningly beautiful ranch in Wyoming, Flicka is a story of a
rebellious teenage girl and a naturally rebellious and wild, mustang
horse.

The girl, Katie, is the only daughter in a long line of ranchers. She
is a bad student, but it is because she is a dreamer and longs to be on
the family horse ranch instead of at an exclusive Boarding School. Her
father wants her to finish high school and go to college. She is
constantly in a struggle with her father over her long summer break not
only because of her lack of interest in academics, but also because she
finds a mustang (she names Flicka) in the wild and wants to keep it.

She wants to break and ride the mustang, but her father insists that a
mustang doesn't belong on a quarter horse ranch. And, they are going
through tough economic times. The ranch of many thousands of acres is
worth a fortune to land developers. No one wants to sell out, but they
may be forced to. Katie has an older teenage brother who works the
ranch because he feels it's his duty. He actually is the opposite of
Katie. He wants to leave the ranch, go off to college, and experience
the world.

It all sounds like a dysfunctional family. But it isn't. The father,
mother, daughter, and son love each other deeply. As they struggle with
their economic problems and coming-of-age problems, their love and
fidelity to each other are the only things that have a chance to keep
them together.

The cinematography and art direction are exceptional. You are actually
there in Wyoming and can understand why people never want to leave the
remote and beautiful West, and why they love their horses.

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
If you wanted it to be exactly like the book you are going to be
disappointed. However the movie was awesome and I loved every bit of
it. It was well done and the acting was great. I re-read the book to
get my bearings and saw how different it was but still in love with the
movie. The set was gorgeous and the horses are beautiful. Tim McGraw
has proved himself to be a wonderful actor. And changing the "main"
characters from Male boy to Female , I think, made the movie better. I
cried like a baby in parts even when I knew how it turns out. We can
all relate to Katy and her issues- makes her more real in peoples eyes.
The book has so many descriptions in it you may lose the story at some
point but the movie keeps right on trucking.
<|_=00=_|>
Katy (Lohman) a teenager finds a wild mustang and decides that is her
horse and sets out to tame it. Her father (McGraw) doesn't want her to
end up on a ranch and wants her to go to college.

Yes, it's corny, sappy and all that. But just like a great big, juicy,
cheeseburger sometimes you just "gotta have one." This is good family
entertainment and the kids will love it. Everything works, the
dialogue, the scenery, the acting, the music and, of course, the
horses.

What's not to like when you see a herd of horses running full out over
the plains and there are many scenes like that in here as the ranch is
a Quarter Horse Ranch. There is something majestic watching those
horses run.

The setting is in Wyoming and we get to see some really great scenery
and the camera could have lingered longer on this landscape and yet we
did not see the Big Sky, something for which Wyoming is famous for as
well as Montana. I was once in Wyoming and saw the Big Sky and there is
nothing like it. You look at those nearby gigantic, almost touchable,
clouds and you know there something special there. And, when you look,
you don't have to look up too far. But, sadly, no Big Sky in here.
Maybe Flicka 2?

However, as mentioned this is good family fun and I'm getting hungry.
Maybe a cheeseburger.

Violence:No, Sex: No, Nudity: No, Language:No
<|_=00=_|>
Mary O'Hara's novel "My Friend Flicka" is the basis for this wonderful
family oriented movie. Directed by Michael Mayer, a man whose work we
had admired before, offers a positive view of a Wyoming family that is
struggling to make a living out the ranch where they raise horses and
the changes that are happening around them.

At the center of the story is Katy McLaughlin, a young woman who is
happier being in the family ranch than at the boarding school, where
she seems to be out of place. When Katy goes back home after not
completing a key exam, she begins to feel like a human being. All the
great outdoors are at her finger tips. The horses she loves are also
part of her life.

A fearless rider, Katy is surprised one day by a mountain lion who
comes near her. A mustang that appears out of nowhere comes to her
rescue, attracting Katy's attention. A bond will develop between the
young woman and the horse that will prove it to be a mutual love and
respect they feel about one another. She names the horse Flicka and
becomes her champion when her father feels a mustang doesn't belong in
the ranch because what it will do to the other pure bred horses. In the
end, the father, as well as the family realize how deep Katy cares for
Flicka and the way the horse responds to her.

Alison Lohman, who is seen as Flicka, is an actress that seems a
natural no matter what role she is asked to play. Tim McGraw does
justice to the father, and lovely Maria Bello is perfect as the mother.

The beautiful cinematography by J. Michael Muro does wonders to create
the right atmosphere in which the action is presented. The same can be
said for the musical score of Aaron Zigman, which is tuneful and fits
well in the picture. There is no doubt Michael Mayer will continue to
surprise us in his future projects.

Highly recommended for all families.
<|_=00=_|>
So many times when writers "update" a movie, they destroy it by
changing the heartwarming plot into something colder and more distant.
Flicka remains true to the book, even if they made Flicka's owner a
girt instead of a boy. Allison Lohman, really deserves credit as the
teenage girl with spirit who find Flicka, a similarly spirited mustang.
Her mother is Maria Bello (Doctor on ER, owner of Coyote Ugly) and her
father is a beardless Tim McGraw (that took a while to get use to). Tim
does a surprisingly good job as "Dad," and although its not perfect, he
doesn't detract from the movie.

Expect lots of tears - bring lots of tissue.
<|_=00=_|>
Its about time someone came out with a clean, funny, suspenseful, and
outright wonderful family movie. I am sure I will watch this again, and
again. Tim McGraw surprised me being able to act on top of singing. All
of the actors and actresses in this film were really good. I think I
only heard one cuss word which was very nice considering most films
now. This movie made me laugh, cry and just feel good. A definite on
being seen. If you want a good time with your family ... go watch this
movie. Can be watched by all ages. It does a few parts that might be a
little too intense for ages 6 and under but everyone else I think will
love this movie as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
"Flicka" (2006) bridges several sub-genres, unfortunately it is one of
the weakest examples of each. It's a horse movie (the original is
better, as are "National Velvet", The Horse Whisperer" and for that
matter most episodes of "The Saddle Club" and "Spin & Marty"). It's a
"wild mustangs as a metaphor for the changing West" movie ("The
Misfits" and "Billy Jack" do it better). It's an overwrought coming of
age melodrama (countless other films do this better as well as most of
the stuff you find playing on Lifetime). 

It's also an Alison Lohman film and in all fairness contains one of her
best performances. Lohman is always excellent and in "Flicka" she is
given a lot to work with and handles it all quite well. However, the
scripting and editing assembly work are so weak that her strong
performance (and nice supporting work by Maria Bello and Ryan Kwanten)
cannot turn this thing into a high quality film. You might notice that
neither the two screenwriters nor the director have been involved in
any feature productions since the release of the film. 

"Flicka" was a major release (over 2900 theaters in the U.S.) and
turned a profit at the box office. I credit shrewd packaging by the
film's producers as they focused from inception on insuring that the
project would be bankable. They incorporated elements that pre-sold the
film beyond its target audience of pre-teen girls. Tim McGraw was cast
to bring in his large fan base, Kwanten was counted on to draw a fair
number of teenage girls into the multi- plex, and there were so few
live action family films in 2006 that it was able to tap into an
under-supplied market. 

As for Mary O'Hara's beloved children's book (My Friend
Flicka-previously adapted into two feature films and a television show,
is credited), it would be more accurate to say "inspired by" rather
than "adapted from". The original's ten-year-old hero has been changed
to a 16-year-old heroine named Katy McLaughlin (Lohman). 

I normally rant a bit when an older actress is cast as a teenager but
Lohman is the Mary Pickford of her day and with her cute face and
freckles still looks physically believable playing a teen. Her new look
for the film, long curly hair-dyed dark, makes her look a lot like Kari
Russell (insert "very Irish" here). In this remake it's totally Katy's
story (in the original the parents had a more central role) and is told
from her point-of-view. She even does a short voice-over commentary to
begin and close the film. Normally this POV stuff leads to viewer
identification and connection, but the scripting and directing works
against Lohman and you stay distanced from her character. 

Katy is mega-headstrong, uncomfortable and bored at her boarding school
but at one with the wilds of her family's horse ranch in Wyoming. Her
father is grooming Katy's older brother Howard to eventually take over
the ranch, clueless about Howard's desire to escape and about Katy's
affinity for the place. She is the chip-off-the-old-block, not her
brother. 

The title character is a two-year old black mustang mare that is a
source of conflict between Katy and her father for most of the film.
While the movie looks pretty the thin plot, the poor sequencing, and
absence of "genuine" emotion" doesn't add up to a particularly
satisfying viewing experience. 

Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.
<|_=00=_|>
My daughter and I are avid movie-goers. We both agree that the movie
market is over-glutted with CGI animated flicks. We saw both "Over the
Hedge," and "The Wild," and they left us cold. We may give "Flushed
Away" a chance, only because the guys behind the beloved "Wallace &
Gromit films, and "Chicken Run." "Flicka" has it problems, such as a
female lead who looks far too old to be in high school, a "brother" who
acts likes he is flirting with her more than his on-screen girlfriend!
and an impossibly perfect mom, but it still does not disappoint. Of
course I read the original "Flicka" book as a child AND remember the
old B&W TV series! This movie doesn't even come close, but from the
moment the rodeo guy took Flicka away until the end of the movie, my
daughter and I were crying buckets! I also think that hunky Tim McGraw
was superb, and was jealous of Maria Bello when they did the slow
dance!
<|_=00=_|>
I have trained un-broken horses and instructed young riders for a few
years. Currently I am a Mounted Patrol officer. Please take what I say
very seriously. I am very concerned about children endangering
themselves based on "lessons" they might learn from this movie. As an
officer on horseback I am used to having children literally run up to
my horse. A normal horse, without special training would have
injured/run away from these children. It bothers me that parents
usually stand back and laugh as their children run at our horses. I
believe both children and parents are getting the wrong idea about
horses and the way they act based on movies like this one that continue
the mis-notion. 

This movie teaches: 1) That if you get on a wild mustang's back, that
has never had a rider it will miraculously understand! Oh, you may fall
off a time or two, but that's alright!

REAL LESSON: It takes weeks, months to even "green" break a horse
(walk, trot, canter) Even the process of adding weight to a horse's
back and riding equipment is done slowly and gradually. The young girl
here goes against the horse's natural nature and defies all safety/acts
bratty towards her Father when he tries to correct her.

2) It's okay to steal/run away with a horse in the woods/rainstorm!

REAL LESSON: I think you understand this one.

other things that are just wrong: Galloping a horse in the rain,
"talking" to the horse as if its a human instead of using riding cues,
not wearing a helmet (Many Western riders do not, but on a green-broke
horse this is just asking for trouble).

I'm worried that someone's young daughter is going to wander into a
neighbor's pasture and approach a horse thinking it will "magically"
become her friend. I've seen a little boy injured because he hid into a
strange horse's stall believing it was his "friend." 

This movie does not at all encourage realistic, safe relationships
between horses and riders. If you do let your children watch this
version of Flicka, try to explain to them that horses are animals and
Katy's behavior is wrong. If they want riding lessons after this movie
talk to your instructor about how to act around a "real" horse.
Encourage them to read books such as "Pony Pals" or "The Saddle Club"
which usually encourage safer practices/life lessons. 

It will be better for your family, I assure you.
<|_=00=_|>
Which is basically what teenage Katy says to her father over and over
and over again. AFter lying (again), not only to her family but the
rodeo management, Flicka is seriously injured, and Katy is in bed with
a fever. The dad doesn't want Flicka to suffer, so he heads off to put
her down. Katy comes down the steps, tears streaming down her face.
"Finally!" I thought, "She is going to redeem herself and say she's
sorry for the incredible mess she's gotten everyone into." But, nooooo,
she says 'it's okay, Daddy, you can kill both of us'. OH MY GOODNESS!!
My super-favorite part, though, was at the end, when the DAD apologizes
to Katy. What?!! Way to go Hollywood, for emasculating another Father
and making him appear totally incompetent.
