
The trailer was boring and I was sure I didn't want to see the movie. I
am also not a big fan of Matt or Sarah. Luckily for me there was
nothing "good" to see for date night out with the wife. So we decided
to see "Failure to Launch". It was possibly the funniest movie so far
this year. Great characters, great story, and loads of bust out
laughing situations. Terry Bradshaw and Kathy Bates are crazy/funny and
actually parents I would love to have. The rest of the cast, especially
the character of Kit, are perfect for the parts played and extremely
funny. This is just what it is supposed to be, a fun romp. Enjoy this
movie and don't take it seriously like the guy from Canada.
<|_=00=_|>
No, this won't win any major awards or impress the art world's elite,
but it is a funny, delightful diversion on a date night. My husband and
I laughed all the way through it - as did the entire theater. I go to
movies for a diversion from reality and this met the bill. If you don't
expect deep meaningful, life altering messages or commentaries on the
deep ills of society you will enjoy the movie.

The performances by the supporting cast were delightful and the best of
the movie - especially Kathy Bates and Zooey Deschanel. While the
chemistry between the leads was lacking spark, their performances were
still fun to watch.

The critics need to relax a little and not expect searing dramatic
performances from romantic chic flicks!
<|_=00=_|>
Why, oh, why, can Hollywood assemble such a fantastic cast, and fail
the cast members so miserably with the script? Stay home and watch a
"Friends" rerun and you'll probably witness a more coherent, funnier,
and truer script.

Every actor in this cast, including Terry Bradshaw, a former football
player, is fantastic.

In fact, why can Terry Bradshaw, a former football player, act better
than professional Hollywood writers can write? This script is a mess.
Scenes are short and borderline incoherent, or so dumb as to be
targeted at an audience too young to care about romance. What's the
point of putting goofy scenes, like the fake bird fake CPR scene, a
scene that every seven year old in the audience will wake up for, in an
alleged "romantic" comedy? There's no romance here. None. Zero. Zip.
How do you put two such beautiful, sexy, charismatic actors -- Matthew
McConaughey and Sarah Jessica Parker -- in a movie, and yet have
absolutely zero romance or heat or sexual chemistry in the movie? I
mean, you'd really have to be trying to make a movie this erotically
neutered with two such stars.

Nothing here makes much of any sense at all. The scenes are a jumble of
failed ideas quickly abandoned. The direction and editing are nil.

A few scenes are ridiculous and childish. Matthew McConaughey is
repeatedly attacked by wild animals. These scenes just never take off.

A few scenes are painful.

MM takes SJP on a date on someone else's boat, pretending that it's
his. He's caught, and has to run away. Is he supposed to be such a
tacky character? Why is SJP supposed to fall in love with him? After MM
discovers that his parents have been paying SJP to date him (this isn't
a spoiler; this plot device is revealed early on), he uses a
particularly crude word to tell her to go away. It's a believable
reaction, but since everything else in the movie is so unbelievable,
it's just awkward and does not fit.

Then there is the scene where one group of characters spies on another
couple of characters via webcams. It's meant to be heartwarming, but
it's just utterly unbelievable and really creepy. Whoever scripted this
scene is tone deaf.

And a few scenes are just plain bizarre, as if they came from another
movie.

This is such a shame. The actors were up for it, but the script writers
and director gave them nothing to work with.
<|_=00=_|>
I got to see a preview of this the other night . . I went in thinking
this was just another silly romantic comedy, but I must say I laughed a
bit and enjoyed some of the crude humor. The audience I sat with loved
it and laughed often, so I think this will do well in the theater
especially those that enjoy Mr. McConaughey's abs and southern charm.
There's actually some great nature shots with Dolphins and other
fun-loving creatures, but I won't go into detail since it would spoil
some of the crude humor in this flick. I think this would make a great
date film since most of the film is told from the male perspective, so
it's not your typical female male basher. Zooey Deschannel has some
great moments as well with her deadpan looks and offbeat charm. There's
no Oscar worthy performances here, just a fun silly, offbeat romantic
comedy with a little um-nudity from Mr. Bradshaw (no frontal of
course).
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was fun. I'm a big fan of Terry Bradshaw and I
thought he and Kathy Bates made a "real couple". His "nude room" scene
was a scream - I would have never expected that. I also enjoyed the
scene Kathy Bates expresses her fears about her marriage to her son and
the reasons - a little touch of real life. But my favorite character
has to be Kit (Zooey Deschanel). Every comedy movie needs a straight
(man/woman) I loved her, she was great. In my opinion the depth of the
secondary characters was the strength of this movie. I didn't
particularly care for the ending. I look forward to seeing more of
Zooey Deschanel - great job!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm just a guy who (doesn't live with his parent's) likes to be
entertained. Our theater last night was packed and we couldn't stop
laughing! This is a fun romantic comedy that leaves you feeling good.
What I thought was going to be a predictable movie surprised me with
characters that were endearing. Kathy Bates and Terry Bradshaw are
great as the parent's. (Remember "Meet The Focker's?) Matthew
McConaughey is the perfect "lovable loser" (and yes, he's wrapped in
nothing but a towel in the first two minutes!) Sarah Jessica Parker has
that charm and smile that would melt anyone's heart. The supporting
cast is great! Matthew's 'live at home bud's' featuring Justin Bartha
as "Ace" is the perfect "nerd" and Zooey Deschanel as "Kit" has a dry
sense of humor often steals the scenes she shares with Sarah Jessica.
Whether you still live at home or know someone who does, "Failure to
Launch" lifts off.
<|_=00=_|>
I really thought that this was a decent movie. I don't think that the
commercials showed all the good parts either. It had plenty of parts
that made me laugh out loud. I mean it did have some parts that were
dry, and it reminded me of a different version of How to Lose a Guy in
10 Days, but I still liked it. I think that my favorite character would
have to have been Kit, who is the roommate of Sarah Jessica Parkers
character. I think that perhaps the main characters did not have the
most humorous lines as their costars did, but each star mixed well in
the movie. I think that if you are one of those people who like to
watch girly movies, as I am, then you would definitely enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes for this movie. After all, I love all of the cast
members. However, somehow, it just didn't do it for me. It was as if
the screenwriters didn't know who they wanted to try to please. The
over the top farcical scenes would have worked in a different movie,
and the relationship scenes would have worked in a different movie. I
think that one of the subplots involving Zooey Deschanel (who literally
steals the show) would have been more interesting to watch than either
of the two leads. Matthew McConaughey is admittedly good looking to
watch, but his abs and cast have been his supporting cast long enough.
And as much as I have loved Sarah Jessica Parker, she's looking a bit
long in the tooth here, and is definitely too old to play the part.

Grade: C (But only for Zooey's sake, I loved her!)
<|_=00=_|>
I was stunned at how bad this movie was - so predictable, so lame and
another one of these Hollywood studio processed films where it doesn't
even seem like reality - like it is this parallel universe that
Hollywood creates where people have jobs like boat brokers and parent,
grown son interventionist! They all have names like Ace, Demo, Kit,
Tripp and Captain!! We all knew EXACTLY what was going to happen the
minute Sara Jessica Parker says "I never have sex with a client." Gee -
wonder if she will with Matthew - er, sorry - Tripp...I also cant
believe that the movie invested sooooo much time in a subplot where
someone wants to murder a mockingbird. Wow! That's funny! And obviously
the studio found it hilarious whenever an animal attacks a human!
Woo-hoo, that's some funny comedy - Billy Wilder could learn a thing or
two from these fine filmmakers about what is truly funny. A chipmunk
attacks, a dolphin attacks, a mockingbird bites the guy's nose like in
a Goofy cartoon oh - and a lizard attacks - and after he does - they
show him snickering - thus making the snickering lizard more
three-dimensional than any of the supporting characters. Plus, it
really was truly creepy what SJP's character tries to do - to "date"
screwed-up, mainly lonely guys and make them think she likes them to
try and get them to move out. The one other scene where they show her
"working" - the guy is the typical fat, nerdy slob who quotes Star Wars
and you watch her pretend to like him. Man! That is one creepy job
there (almost as creepy as being a boat broker. I kid! I kid the boat
brokers and all the members of The Boat Brokering Association). This
movie is just a mind-freeze - watch point A move to Point B and then to
Point C - now go home. The fact that this thing made TONS of money says
it all.
<|_=00=_|>
Dross! Boring and predictable! After only ten minutes into the film, I
could stake my life on what would happen at the end - and I was right.

I don't mind romantic comedies, but this is drivel. Even the "funny"
moments; those slapstick scenes that are added to films to make you
laugh uproariously, barely raised a smile (a chipmunk bit his finger Â–
hysterical. A lizard bit his hand and he falls on his backÂ– hilarious).

This film has no redeeming features whatsoever and even the inclusion
of such comic genii as Matthew McConaughey and Sarah Jessica Parker
couldn't get it going. What did I expect though, going to see a film
with those two hams in the starring roles, they actually make Courteney
Cox look funny. In my defence though, one night a week I do Support
Work and my disabled employer wanted to go to the cinema. There was
nothing on we hadn't already seen so we took a chance on this. Well,
even he thought it was turd. I thought he was going to sack me!

If you want my advice, don't waste your time with this nonentity. I'd
rather nail my eyelids to the floor than sit through this tripe again.
