
While on holidays I managed to see this movie and I was pleasantly
surprised. I have never liked Breslin but she is at her best in this
movie and Jodie Foster will always be the magnificent Jodie Foster.
Gerard Butler was also very funny and had me cracking up which is
something a family movie has not made me do in a while. The story is
good and witty and the movie is very family friendly. I think older
teens would be bored because although I enjoyed it the story was a bit
predictable at times. Overall I was very happy with the movie and would
recommend it first and foremost as a family movies. Kids will love it
and adults will be thoughtful enough to enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I went and saw this movie at the world premiere. I will start out by
saying this... It is a very good for the whole family to enjoy.

Storyline: A girl and her father are on a remote island. They are the
only ones who live their. The father is a research scientist who is
interested in microscopic creatures. Nim, the daughter, is very much in
touch with nature and enjoys reading the tales of Alex Rover, an
adventurer. The author, Alexandra Rover, is agoraphobic and hasn't left
her apartment in a very long time. Dad goes to sea, storm makes him
stranded. Nim is stuck alone on the island and is contacted by
Alexandra Rover, and calls for her help. Well, you will have to watch
the rest to find out...

Pros: A great family movie. It has the perfect recipe of drama, comedy,
suspense and a touch of romance. The acting is great. The scenery is
beautiful. The special effects are magnificent. The story of a father
and daughter living on a remote island is very creative and lends
itself to a really great story, which is what this movie is.

Cons: Being a family movie, it is predictable. There are also plot
elements which go no-where. One being there is a huge talk about Nim's
mother at the beginning, but then it really doesn't go anywhere after
that.

Summary: If you have kids, of any age, this is a good movie to go and
see with them. If you don't have kids, but are looking for something
different from the usual movies, this is still one to consider. All in
all, a good story, well told and with great characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Nim's Island manages to never to go over the top and combines a nice
comedy drama genre for the big screen. This movie has elements from The
Last Action Hero (1993), Jumping Jack Flash (1986), and The Whalerider
(2002), all fascinating looks at either imaginary or fantastical
friends or exotic islands and a young woman's connection with marine
life. What this movie is able to avoid is Home Alone (1990) dumb
slapstick comedy. The script was very sensitive and careful with
physical comedy and Jodie Foster's performance was dead on without
becoming sloppy at all. Unfortunately, several of the plot points
became close to cheesy, the volcano scenes had too much in the way of
coincidental events, and the father's exploits teetered on
unbelievable. Overall, though Nim's Island handled its material well,
usually stayed within the bounds of acceptability in order to provide
an entertaining, fun performance by Jodie Foster and Abigail Breslin.
Seven out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Nim (Abigail Breslin) and her marine biologist father (Gerard Butler)
live on an island in the South Pacific. Dad's main area of study is
microorganisms so this is a perfect venue for his work, in addition to
being a kingdom where only the two of them rule. As Nim's mother died
in an accident on the waters, it is also a good place for them to shut
out the rest of the world and heal their spirits. Nim's only close
friends are her beloved animals, a seal, a seabird, and a lizard. One
day, father wants to make a boat trek nearby to look for a new protozoa
and, for once, Nim convinces him to let her remain alone on the island.
It turns out to be a bad decision, as father gets caught in a storm and
can not return home at the appointed time. Nim appeals to an adventure
writer named Alex Rover to come to the island and help look for her
father (the island does have computer technology!) But, unknown to Nim,
Alex is really Alexandra (Jodie Foster) and she is a shy agoraphobic
who resides in San Francisco. Nevertheless, due to the gravity of the
situation, Alex boards a plane and begins a journey to the island. Will
she get there in time to save Nim and her father from destruction? On
paper, this is a certain winner, for the basic premise of the movie is
quite good and the undiscovered island setting is the stuff of dreams.
Throw in the great threesome of Foster, Breslin, and Butler, and one
could hardly ask for more, right? Unfortunately, this is not the case
and it is difficult to say why, for the principal actors are quite good
and the scenery is lovely. Also, there is some sly humor, as in the
scene where a hula dancer is stopped in mid-wave to escape an exploding
volcano! Perhaps, it is the story's inconsistencies and the slap-dash
direction that are at fault, for the scenes seem put together in a
mozaic that doesn't quite fit. Then, too, Butler takes on two roles,
one as the father and one as the fictional alter-ego, Alex Rover, of
Foster's books, with mixed results. To sum it up, the movie probably
tries to do "too many things" and ends up lacking a real focus.
However, it is absolutely an acceptable film for families, with enough
adventure to please most age groups and a setting that is exotic and
lovely beyond belief. Anyone searching for something new in the
"child-friendly" category would find this one a good watch, but not a
great one, alas.
<|_=00=_|>
'Nim's Island' is one of those films that had the potential to be a
great adventure flick but, sadly, misses the mark. The screenplay is
inconsistent and the script loses focus. Most of the characters aren't
well developed, some are unnecessary and would have been better left
out. While there are many plot holes, there are some unnecessary (and
irritating, especially the sequences with the caricature bad guy
visitors in the island) subplots. The entire film revolves around Nim
being stranded on the island all by herself as her father is lost
somewhere at sea and a 'borderline' agoraphobic Alexandra travelling to
the island to rescue her. The climax is very disappointing. When one
sees Nim and Alexandra meet for the first time, something big is
expected but nothing like that happens. I would have much preferred
that the film focus on Nim and Alexandra's adventure in the island and
their attempt to rescue Jack but there's nothing like that. Moreover,
the look of the film isn't that appealing. There are some nice glimpses
of the island but the CGI is poor and use of green screen copy pasting
is too obvious (due to poor lighting). I liked the animal characters
but only the adorable sea lion looked realistic. Abigail Breslin and
Gerard Butler are okay but they are mostly let down by the shoddy
screenplay. However, Jodie Foster was amusing to watch. It's great to
see her in a comedic performance and she carries off the eccentric
Alex's 'borderline' agoraphobia and determination to save Nim with
comic flair. It is her scenes that save 'Nim's Island' from being a
total disaster. The film ends on a note that there might be a sequel.
If there is, well I hope it has much more to offer.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching NIM'S ISLAND, it occurred to me that Wendy Orr's
children's novel would have worked much better as a Walt Disney
animated feature than as a live action film with CGI effects. Animation
would have provided the missing ingredient here--namely, good
old-fashioned charm...and magic. The design work for the main titles
led me to believe this would be an enchanting film. It wasn't.

However, with a lack of good films for children to see, I wouldn't
discourage younger patrons from seeing the film. It's entertaining
enough for impressionable minds to appreciate--if they can understand
that the Alex Roper character is really a figment of Abigail's and
Jody's imagination.

ABIGAIL BRESLIN is fine as the lonely island girl who has to fantasize
about her pulp action hero and GERARD BUTLER is perfectly cast as her
father (Jack) who goes missing for most of the story but is reunited
with her--predictably--at the end after a savage storm. But I can't say
I enjoyed watching JODIE FOSTER play a clumsy agoraphobic authoress in
a series of scenes that had me wondering who else might have been
better in that role. I came up with a younger Angela Lansbury, who knew
how to do this sort of physical clumsiness with such skill and still
remain charming. With Foster, the charm is gone and all you you get is
a mannered amount of nerdy nervousness.

Lest anyone adult should fall asleep during the proceedings, not to
worry. Patrick Doyle's bombastic background score, incredibly busy even
during the frenzied height of the storm scenes, is enough to make
anyone pop open their eyes to see what's happening.

What should have been wistful, magical, even a bit romantic, comes
across as kind of brass, corny and utterly predictable nonsense with
lots of credibility issues. Foster's character is among the most
unbelievable characters ever created, even for a children's story.

Summing up: Has its moments and it's not all bad, but too bad Butler
couldn't have had more footage. His scenes as the imaginary adventurer
provide the best and most humorous moments in the whole film.
<|_=00=_|>
Silly? Yes. Predictable? Yes. For Kids? Yes. Entertaining? Yes.....even
for adults, IF you don't take anything seriously and expect something a
little dumb but charming.nonetheless. Picture yourself as a kid
watching a movie and you'll enjoy it a lot more, because it's
definitely a children's film. It also has an involving story. Once it
starts you have to stick around and see how it winds up. With some
movies, I could care less but this one, I cared.

For those who have kids age 5-12, this is highly recommended. For
adults, well, it's not bad. If you're looking for "clean"
entertainment, you found it. It's not goody-goody, either, and it's not
always a smart family movie (a father leaving his kid all alone for
several days?) but it's a nice movie, has funny animal characters, a
lead kid who is not a brat, nice island scenery, one big-name actress
(Jodie Foster) and is a diversion for an hour-and-a-half.

The little dragon "Fred" is the best of the non-humans. I don't know if
that's the real noise that lizard makes, but it's fun to hear. Seals
are always entertaining, too. The one in this film is very talented. 

As for the humans, Abigail Breslin as "Nim Rusoe" is a cute, likable
kid. Gerard Butler plays both male leads and does them well enough that
you forget he's doing two characters. Seeing Foster do slapstick while
being a female "Mr. Monk" was a little odd but, I'm not going to knock
her for trying.

As another reviewer said here, put yourself in a little kid's shoes and
enjoy the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Nim's Island is a tale about a young girl named Nim (imagine that) who
lives with her single father on a remote island in the middle of the
South Pacific. Because she has no friends or neighbors, she spends her
time playing with animals and indulging in the fantastic fantasies of
her Alex Rover adventure novels. The stories of the Alex Rover novels
are assumedly based on the adventures of the author, Alexandra Rover.
The reality is that Alexandra is an introvert hermit who spends her
days writing her stories in her San Francisco apartment and talking
aloud to the imaginary Alex Rover character. Alexandra and Nim come
into contact through email and Nim reveals that her father, who is a
scientist, is lost at sea. After much debating, Alexandra gets up
enough courage to finally leave her apartment and travel to visit Nim.
Once on the island, the girls quickly develop a special bond. With the
help of the imaginary story hero Alex Rover, they step into a world of
fun and adventure where the line separating fantasy and real life
vanishes and dreams become realities (I know that last line was really
corny, but whatever).

The predominant aspect that enticed me to see the film was the awesome
cast. You have academy award winner Jodie Foster as Alexandra Rover,
Abegail Breslinwho you may remember from Little Miss Sunshineplaying
Nim, and the star of 300, Gerard Butler playing dual roles as the
father and as the imaginary Alex Rover. And yes, ladies, he does have
his shirt off in this film.

Despite the big names, the cast seemed to lack the necessary chemistry.
I thought Butler did an awesome job with both of his roles, but his
relationship with his daughter is far from believable. And Jodie
Foster, who happens to be one of my favorite actresses, just seems
really out of place in this film. Kind of like Subway's Jared eating at
Quiznos. Breslin was fine as Nim, but she spends half the movie talking
to lizards and a giant seal. That might seem cute to some viewers, but
in my opinion she probably needs a psychiatrist, or possibly an
exorcist. I would also like to add that someone needs to teach that
girl proper running form. Many scenes feature Nim running through the
woods or down the beach and every time I watched her run I just started
to laugh. With her arms flailing about she looked like Pinocchio
running around high on amphetamines or something.

I did really enjoy all the fantasy elements of the film, but I think a
movie that mixes fantasy with reality works best when the fantasy
aspects provide a sharp contrast to reality. In Nim's Island, the
normal lives they live are unrealistic which causes the fantasy
elements to lose their effect. I mean, who in the right mind moves to a
remote island with a ten year old? And how in the world did they get
wireless internet service? I can't even get service in my own basement,
and they have perfect connection on an island in the middle of no
where.

Maybe my expectations are too high. Maybe I am too old to appreciate a
children's film. Nim's Island is, after all, a kid's movie in the
purest sense. There are plenty of corny jokes, cute animals, and
moments that will probably touch your soul, unless of course you are
Satan. I had high hopes for this film because I honestly enjoy quite a
few kids' movies. Who here doesn't like Hook? Or The Sandlot? Or Angels
in the Outfield? Nim's Island, unfortunately, did not measure up. Sure
I laughed a few times and smiled innocently at some of the scenes, but
about half way through the movie Iwellto be perfectly honest, I fell
sound asleep. I think I dreamt about unicorns, but I don't really
remember.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read many comments about predictability, blah, blah, blah! I
found this film refreshingly entertaining for all ages. There was
something for everyone. Being a female around the same age, I can
relate to Jodie Foster since I practically grew up with her!! And I do
feel it was great seeing her in a lighter movie than she's been making
lately.

Abigail Breslin was cute as always. She definitely can hold her own,
but then she always has.

Gerard Butler - well I can never say enough about him. That's why I put
great movie in more ways than one. To see him in two roles was just
great. My daughter who is 15 got me into him from "Phantom" to "Dear
Frankie" to "300" (and I hate war movies usually) to "Tomb Raider" to
"P.S. I Love You" and now this movie. We went with 4 of her friends,
and after wards we had a discussion on which "Gerard" we liked better.
The vote was four for the swash-buckling Alex Rover (myself included)
to two for the more clean-cut Jack! We all agreed that we loved this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
It was a cute movie. But, there were some parts that were 'too cute' to
enjoy. Some of the animals used...though they were real, looked fake,
cheesy, and unrealistic..like the bird.The seal was probably the most
realistic acting animal and did a nice job. The lizards used in the
film looked real but the the 'voices' they were given were way too
cheesy and was the one thing that made them seem fake...although they
got a giggle from the kids in the audience. Foster did a great job of
portraying a character with agoraphobia, she hit it right on. The rest
of the actors did quite well also, Breslin has proved herself to be a
known name in the future. I definitely recommend this for the kids.
