
These types of movies you can expect a certain level of humor and just
chalk it up to funny and put in the rotation to watch down the road. I
knew this movie would be middle of the road funny going in, but I
didn't realize that it would be this bad going out. The whole
compilation of the movie was lazy and looked like a rip-off of a
Farrelly Brothers movie. They took a good idea and just ran it into the
ground. The movie just looked like it was made up as they went along
and with the credentials of some of the actors you would think that
they would help but they just made it worse to watch. I thought it was
way to long and was hoping it would end soon just to find that there
were 30 minuets left and they still haven't begin to build up to the
conclusion. The only thing that I found funny in this movie though is
that you see more wiener than breast.
<|_=00=_|>
This thing is just awful, pointless and dull. It doesn't even have the
wit to crazy combo of the Hangover. The premise is insipid, the writers
have obviously got no idea of how actual, adult relationships work.
Nothing more than another in a long line of mass produced, dopey,
incredulous 'comedy' produced for the lowest common denominator. if
this is the future of what our comedies are, no thanks. Take my
advice;skip this movie. Walk past it on store shelves. If it's Telly,
unplug the set and go out for a pint. It's not funny. Not even
remotely. It's groan inducing. If you like other brainless rot like
Napoleon Dynamite, Mama's Boy, Or anything of that 'style' , a term
which I use in the loosest conceivable terms, you may get something out
of this. If you've never actually been with a Woman, then the concept
of this film may actually hold some sort of allure.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you think men are all bumbling incompetents who can barely dress
themselves? If so do yourself a favor and check out this gem!

***SPOILERS!!!!*** Did you know that married men BLATANTLY check out
other women CONSTANTLY!!!??? ME NEITHER!!! This information had NEVER
come up on my radar and thus the fact that this was pointed out several
times in this movie was absolutely hysterical! I'm so glad that JB
Smoove & Stephen Merchant found time away from those AWFUL television
projects that they're involved in! I just don't understand why Larry
David & Ricky Gervais continue to hold these guys back! They should
totally continue down this road where they FINALLY have some good
writing behind their performances! 

This this the best Farrelly brothers movie since Stuck on You!!!!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Why oh why oh f***ing why is it really necessary to drop without any
need or notice some c**k into every movie that is billed as comedy For
F**ks sake is every one in Hollywood f**king queer this is a mildly
amusing movie , so lets make it a bit rude and stick some unneeded c**k
in your face . What is wrong with these f**kers this is the internet
age EVERYTBODY has access to porn we have all seen it and it ain't
funny you gay F**ks Do you really think that flashing your proverbial
C**ks is gonna convert somebody to fagotry .Because I cannot think of
any possible other reason that you would do this As I have said before
if its shock your after show vulva (not bush) as much as you love to
show penis and I guarantee you will shock because no one in Hollywood
has ever done this . Of course this is because you are all f**king
queer C**TS
<|_=00=_|>
Simply dreadful 2011 film with Owen Wilson and his pal given a hall
pass by their wives. This simply means that for one week, they can act
as single guys and cavort with whomever they choose to do so.

The movie then goes into their various experiences during the week. The
wives also go into hall pass mode so that both the men and women are
cheating on one another.

The situations are ridiculous just like the film. There is a chase by
the police, a guy jumping all over their car with a gun whose mother,
played by Joy Behar, is the one delight of the film.

After seeing this wreck, they would have been better off if they never
returned from their honeymoon.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe these brothers are wealthy purely based on toilet humor
and breasts (possessed by girls who look like models while the male
leads look like old men) - yeah realistic...NOT! This movie was once
again aimed at men who don't need a realistic plot. Just cheap laughs,
stick material and an excuse to use next time they want to stray...

"Yeah Honey, I need a Hall Pass for a week. It's the done thing
nowadays, a movie said so". Then at the end the guys are made out to be
loving husbands while one wife is made out to be a slut - after her
husband was (as he said) kissing another woman's genitals and in the
middle of masturbating her when told his wife was in a car accident.
Yeah the only reason he stopped is because his friend turned up to tell
him his wife was in an accident- yet men are still on here calling his
wife a slut (that's rich).

You better believe men will think it's OK to use words such as "faux
job" etc and giggle like girls and ask for hall passes because once
again the Farrelly brothers have told them they can get a hot
Australian girl - just because they looked at her in a creepy way and
got a "Week off".
<|_=00=_|>
I must sound like a broken record, but once again this horrid film
proves that Hollywood simply cannot make a decent comedy anymore. This
one has the same things they all do now- tons of juvenile potty humor,
gratuitous male nudity (and in a rarity, a brief topless female), and a
predictable, disastrous message. The male nudity, by the way, includes
a close up view of a male's penis. 

As usual, the males in the film are made out to be the bad guys. Two
hapless husbands, who are guilty of nothing more than ogling women here
and there, are granted a "hall pass" by their wives. This idea comes
from their friend, played by the odious Joy Behar, who is no actress
and can barely recite her lines. The men are told that for one week,
they can do whatever they want, and pretend they aren't married, while
the wives take the kids out of town. 

In an utterly foreseen twist, the guys turn out to not even be capable
of talking to girls, let alone sleeping with them, while their wives
are partying up a storm with hot younger athletes. Meanwhile, we are
treated to a running gag that could have been penned by most third
graders, of the guys' fat friend constantly uttering "I have to poo."
In a truly artistic scene, we are treated to this man's fat bare bottom
taking a dump in a sand trap on a golf course. Talk about hilarious! 

Owen Wilson eventually turns down the hot 21 year old who had been his
children's babysitter, her hot 40 something aunt, and the gorgeous
blonde Australian chick who had been the object of his fantasies. He
doesn't even get to kiss any of them. His hapless friend is similarly
unlucky. Meanwhile, Christina Appelegate, as the other husband's wife,
does sleep with a younger guy. Afterwards, she says "this can't happen
again- I love my husband." 

This is the message that has been coming out of Hollywood for some time
now- a wife can have an extramarital affair, but the husband cannot, or
at least if he does, the marriage is over. We saw this even in Family
Guy, when Lois slept with Bill Clinton, but Peter inexplicably backed
out of sleeping with his date, so the writers solved that by having
Peter sleep with Bill Clinton, too. Ugh. 

When the hapless other husband reunites with Christina Applegate, he
gets down on his knees and apologizes. "For what?" the audience might
ask. He didn't really do anything wrong. But his wife sure did. And
does she admit this, or apologize herself? Nope. Guess again- she
accepts his ridiculous apology with a canary-that-ate-the-kitten smile.
Nice message there for everyone. 

This movie was not as awful as the Judd Apatow stuff, or quite as
unfunny as most of Adam Sandler's and Will Ferrell's "gems," but it is
still thoroughly offensive.
<|_=00=_|>
The authors are apparently incapable of coming up with anything
generally amusing, so they instead substitute a serious of gross out,
shock scenes. The piece in the main is a female revenge fantasy - the
male characters are depicted as stupid and insensitive enough to ask
for a license to cheat, the women with complete unrealism grant it, and
in turn the women are successful and the men are spectactularly
unsuccessfully. Perhaps he Farelly slobs and their friends are like
that, but even if so they shouldn't tar all men that way.

Unsatisfied with vicious sexism against men, they also have to include
a scene in graphic detail that states black men have large penises and
white men tiny ones, and thus extend to the worst kind of racism. Most
likely the Farrelly slobs have a complex about their tiny penises, but
that's no reason to inflict this on the public.

To summarize, a disgusting piece of sexism and racism. Unfortunately,
since it is left-wing sexism against men and racism against white
people, this filth gets to be a Hollywood produced and backed movie.
<|_=00=_|>
If these guys are so desperate for sex, and if their wives are morons
who don't care who they sleep with, why not just go and find some
prostitutes to sleep with? They don't even have a enough time to
develop a relationship. I am so glad to see that the sense of
commitment to marriage is alive and well in Hollywood. Apparently, the
point of the movie is to show that people don't really want to be
married. Casual sexual or childish teenage infatuation are more
compelling than a committed marriage where the wife and husband have
remained faithful to each other. If a husband is so immature that he
goes around like a teenager dreaming about sleeping with younger women,
then he should never have gotten married in the first place. He is a
fool who has no clue what marriage is about.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie rates an "F" for Full Frontal male nudity on several
occasions that had nothing to do with the movie or plot. I believe they
were trying to see how far they could push the envelope. It was
offensive and disgusting for an R-rated film; it would've been
appropriate for X-rated porn. I am sad that the talented and hilarious
Farrelly Brothers lowered themselves into the sewer.

Other than that, however, the rest of the plot was also highly
offensive -- two "poor husbands," who want nothing more than to cheat
on their wives, who are portrayed more like mothers and guardians than
partners. This is hardly the typical middle-class family in my
experience, and hardly a theme for a comedy.

They Failed, big-time.
