
What I liked best in this film is that like the films of Hitchcock, it
is a thriller that does not take itself too seriously.

Hitchcock understood that people go the the movies to have a good time.
Something that Hollywood seems to have forgotten in recent years. This
is a thriller, but it has plenty of laughs and always has one eye
winking at the camera.

Rachel McAdams is wonderful as always. Cillian Murphy is creepier than
he was in Batman Begins. In the old days, there were guys who always
played the bad guy. We don't see much of that these days because I
suspect the Hollywood agents consider it a bad career move, but Cillian
Murphy is really good at being bad.

The directing is surprising stylish. The story is good but the dialog
could have used some sprucing up.

"Red Eye" is a really fun film and people were applauding when the
closing credits started rolling. If you are in the mood for an
enjoyable escapist thriller, "Red Eye" might be your ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advanced screening for this movie tonight. I absolutely loved
it. The movie kept me on the edge of my seat all night. Cillian Murphy
is extremely creepy as the villain. For those of you who have seen
Batman Begins, his character was much scarier in this film. He played
his character very well. The scariest "bad guy," I have seen in awhile.
Rachel McAdams was great. Everyone in the audience laughed, gasped and
cheered at the same time, as if we were on cue. The suspense is held
through out the movie. THe amazing part is that the end was not
anti-climatic. I was not disappointed in the end. I felt satisfied. The
trailer does not do the movie justice. The movie is much better than
the trailer indicated. Do not wait for this movie to come out on video.
Go see it. Although, I did not have to pay to see this movie, I would
have gladly given 10.75 to see it. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Scream was Wes Craven's last decent thriller. Since then there has been
nothing but an unbearable streak of Hollywood trash barely good enough
for a blockbuster night, including the disappointment of the Scream
sequels. Perhaps the genius and the craftsmanship devoted to the movie
drained all the energy and creativity out of him, so that when it came
time for supper, he had nothing to serve us but his own doo doo.
Finally, after who knows how many bad movies later, he gives us a
delicious, ruthless, gripping, chilling suspense thriller with Red Eye.

Rachel McAdams once again delivers an enjoyable performance as she
plays a hotel manager who has the unfortunate connection with an
important political figure and regular at her hotel. Then she meets
Jackson Ripner (Cillian Murphy, Batman Beyond) at the airport, who she
gets to know a little better after a delayed flight and a bay breeze.
What she doesn't know is he already knows her. And he also knows her
father, who she will never see again if she fails to cooperate and meet
Jackson's demands- to use her connections to set up her hotel regular
for assassination.

You're probably thinking this is nothing but your everyday thriller
complete with predictability and chase scenes. Although this is a good
old fashioned thriller, that's the beauty of it. No special effects. No
cheap make up. Just classic suspense. You feel the desperation and
regret with every decision McAdams is forced to make and you actually
care for her as you cheer her on every move she makes to find an escape
from her claustrophobic position.

As always she delivers an entertaining and convincing performance. It's
either her sweet face or her uncanny ability to sincerely cry, but you
always seem to sympathize with her if her role demands it. Cillian
Murphy on the other hand is naturally creepy looking, so even if the
trailer didn't reveal it, his ultimate transition from charming
stranger to merciless jackass isn't so surprising. Perhaps it would
have been more trippy to see a nice guy persona like Toby Maguire
transforming into evil relentless madman. Nevertheless, Cillian Murphy,
after his true identity is established, played the role so solidly
you'd really want him to die, or at least get his ass kicked.

Don't overlook this feature. There are plenty of chalkboard screeching
moments and heart jumpers that will keep your eyes on the screen
instead of your watch like you would at Craven's recent pictures. If
not for the you, do it for all the times you'll see your girlfriend, or
boyfriend, or someone with popcorn jump and cling on to you. Wes
finally gets it right. Aside from his trademark mastery in suspense,
Red Eye is not without its humor as McAdams' replacement Cynthia at the
front desk fumbles to keep the hotel in order. It was a relief that Red
Eye wasn't a disappointment. Instead you'll get the pleasure of seeing
McAdams deliver another incredibly talented performance, Murphy look
creepier by the minute, and Craven craft a classic traditional
thriller. A flight that was delayed and would have been the beginning
of Craven's renaissance had it arrived right after Scream.
<|_=00=_|>
I had fun watching Red Eye. It's not a masterpiece, but it's well
directed and structured. Cillian Murphy and Rachel McAdams are perfect
in the role. Yes, it's the same old story with a different setting but
Wes Craven gave it a good pace. At least not another Scream with the
usual college killer. It's nice when you can see a clean, coherent
thriller even when originality doesn't stand out as its main character.
Particularly from a film-maker like Craven that has brought so many
innovative ideas to the thriller and horror genre in the past and that
now just lends himself to bringing home what could have been a good TV
movie had it not been released theatrically. Good job!
<|_=00=_|>
Beautifully filmed, well acted, tightly scripted suspense movie. Had me
on the edge of my seat. I liked the lead actress very much, and thought
the villain was very well done. Not much to chew on here in the way of
a theme, but if you just get in your seat, turn your brain off, watch
the fancy camera work, and enjoy the plot, you will have a great time.
The plot is well worn, and regular movie goers will probably know more
or less what to expect by about ten minutes in. But that didn't bother
me, as I enjoyed watching it unfold. In the old days, they might not
have focused so tightly on just two characters, and there were some
enticing moments when I hoped they were going to let some other people
have a few lines. But these folks were probably right to keep the movie
so tightly focused. The plot got me by the throat fairly early on, and
never let go. It's not a good idea to think too much either during or
after the movie. as I'm not sure it makes a great deal of sense. Just
sit back and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
I am surprised that everyone (even the critics) seems to think this was
a good movie. It was the most clich√©d thriller ever made that I have
seen. We have the 'bad guy' who wants to force the 'good guy' (or girls
in this case) to do something or face the consequence. The 'good girl'
in this movie must use her smarts and skills to defeat the 'bad guy'
and save the day and her loved ones. Using charisma, bravery, and even
luck to save the day. 

Where to begin? Well, a young woman by the name of Lisa Reisert meets a
young man by the name of Jackson Rippner (nice name) at an airport. One
coincidence leads to another and soon it seems as if fate is bringing
these two together. Sharing drinks, sitting next to each other,
seemingly getting along in every way... Is there more to this
strangeness? Could these two be meant for each other? Does 'fate' have
a reason for their strange and random encounter? 

Well, as it turns out, unfortunately yes. Jackson needs to Lisa to help
him assassinate the Director of Homeland Security by moving him from
one room to another so that his men can launch an attack on him. Oh, if
she doesn't do this then her father is dead. Though we never learn the
exact reasons why and who is really behind this madness, Jackson more
then explains how this is going to happen and why its in Lisa's best
interest to help him.

Of course, Lisa defeats his evil plans with her smarts and in the
process stabs him in the neck, makes him trip over chairs, and hitting
him with a field hockey stick. Oh, and before that, she leads him on
wild chase through Miami airport where she gets passed post 9 11
security and steals a car that she later uses to run over the man who
was ordered to kill her father. 

Yeah, right.

First of all, I find it strange that a man like Jackson who can get his
hands on high tech weaponry needs the help of a hotel manager. Couldn't
he just sneak a bomb into the building? Wouldn't that make it safer for
him and his team by leaving out any third parties? And why do
characters like Jackson also explain everything they are going to do to
someone they are threatening? Doesn't that make it easier to stop them
by the same people? 

The actors did their best considering the movie they were given.
Racheal McAdams and Cillian Murphy are still actors to look out for.
Also, I believe that Jayma Mays (who played the 'loveable' Cynthia)
will be someone we will see more of. It's just too bad they all were
stuck with this.

2 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
"Red Eye" is all about Lisa (McAdams) who is simply trying to get home
during a bad weather snarl at the airport and finds herself stuck on a
red-eye and flying headlong into a suspense drama. A busy, fun little
no brainer, "Red Eye" begins like a romcom, morphs into a
suspense/action flick, and takes you on a simple-minded but
entertaining girl power ride as Lisa races with the clock to save the
day. Probably worth the price of a DVD rental, "Red Eye" will play best
with fans of rising star McAdams and those who no brain it to avoid
it's many nagging plot holes. Keep expectations real for maximum
enjoyment. (B-)
<|_=00=_|>
Red Eye is not the kind of movie that's going to win the Palme D'or,
but Wes Craven has never been that kind of director, anyway, and his
branding is a good indication of what a film-goer can expect.

The fact that Red Eye is a tight little, undemanding package at 94
minutes is part of its charm and an indication of Craven's craft in
producing lightweight, but generally enjoyable, box office fare. In
fact, it's the perfect kind of movie to show as inflight entertainment,
attention-holding without putting any intellectual or emotional
challenges on the viewer.

Overall there is a cheesy feeling to the plot, vague terrorist subplot
motivation and the supporting characters, and the main section has a TV
movie feel. However, there are definite elements of Hitchcockian
suspense, and echoes of Schumacher's Phone Booth, which ultimately is a
more sophisticated (and pretentious) play on the same idea of emotional
crisis being played out suppressed in public.

For a film that focuses mainly on two people sitting in airline seats,
it lives or dies on the characters and script. Cillian's icy but
eloquent Jackson Rippner and Rachel MacAdams resourceful Lisa are the
main reasons the film gets carried off. Not only making the dialogue
zing but also giving some sort of Adam's Rib type dimension to their
battle of 'male logic' against feminine 'sensitivity'.

In the final portion of the film Craven indulges himself a little
Scream style as man-chases-girl-with-knife. The most surprising
revelation here is what Brian Cox looks like after the 'Just for Men'
treatment, his ubiqutous appearance in films as diverse as Super
Troopers, The Ring and this making him the sexegenarian version of Jude
Law.

Short haul fun.
<|_=00=_|>
On an overnight flight from Los Angeles to Miami, Lisa Reisert (Rachel
McAdams) meets a charming man who turns out to be a hired killer who
demands her help killing a businessman or else her own father will die.

Red Eye is a terrific thriller that keeps the audience on the edge of
their seats. The premise is similar to Cellular and Phone Booth but Red
Eye is better than both of those films. Almost everything about Red Eye
is above average including the suspense, the acting and the direction.
Most of the film does take place on a plane but that doesn't slow down
the movie. The film is very fast pace and exciting with no slow or
boring spots. Wes Craven does a really good job behind the camera.
Instead of focusing on the thrills, he focuses on the story and the
characters. The movie does have its share of suspenseful moments but
that's not what the film is really about. I also like the way Wes
Craven focuses on the other passengers and the small details that
become important later on. Red Eye really shows his skills at
storytelling.

Red Eye also works well because of its young and talented cast. Rachel
McAdams gives a very engaging performance and her character is hard to
hate. You may even end up cheering for her out loud. Cillian Murphy
gives a very creepy and effective performance as the villain. The way
he acts charming at first but then turns psycho is especially
impressive. The supporting actors are also pretty good which include
Brain Cox and Jayma Mays.

The movie is also very stylish and it has this overall creepy vibe to
it. The setting works well since there is an obvious fear of isolation
and no escape. Overall, the tone of the film is consistently creepy.
The screenplay isn't as strong as everything else though. There are a
few unrealistic moments that may distract the viewer. Most of them
didn't bother me but there were of few that left me shaking my head.
Also, the ending is disappointing. It isn't a bad ending just a very
simple one and a different approach would have been better. Since the
movie focuses on the characters, there is really no scream moments
maybe just a few jumps. If you expect a horror movie then you will end
up disappointed. In the end, Red Eye is an engaging thriller and it's
one of the best movies of the summer. Rating 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
They sell it as a horror movie, it's supposed to be a thriller, but I
found it pretty funny (comedy?, don't think so), I laughed the whole
movie I think it was because of the ridiculous acting and plot. I don't
blame the actors, I think they were not very good, but O.K. I think
Cillian is a very good "bad guy" I loved his acting in Batman Beggins,
and Rachel McAdams.. whoa! she's a beauty, and a good actress as well,
but let's try to be a little objective here, the story mm mm... the
direction mm mm... it lacks a lot of good suspense in fact is a really
boring movie, but there's one good thing tho, it's a short movie, only
1 hour and 30 minutes (FOR ME IT WAS LIKE 10 MINUTES UNDER THE
WATER!!!)

I just don't know why this movie is rated so high, and in rotten
tomatoes, even higher, what's wrong with good, rational and objective
criticism?
