
I was lucky enough to be at a premiere in Chicago for this movie and it
was pure fun entertainment. I am not a nascar fan and I love this
movie. First off let me say that most of the scenes that they show in
the previews are not in the movie, or are at least altered from the
trailer version. The characters are extremely funny. John C. Reily and
Will Farrell make a perfect red-neck match in this comedy. They play
off each other and you can tell that they must have had a blast making
this movie. The scene where they are saying grace around the table
will, in my opinion, go down as one of the funniest scenes ever. I rank
this movie right up there with other will Farrell greats like Old
School, Wedding Crashers and Anchorman. So, whether you are a will
Farrell fan or not, if you just enjoy fun movies that will have you
laughing out loud from start to finish, than you should definitely go
check this movie out when it comes out. I will be the guy in the front
of the line waiting to get my ticket to see this movie again. A+
<|_=00=_|>
It's a pretty funny movie. You could tell Will Ferrell and Sacha Cohen
(aka Ali G) and John C. Reilly all had the opportunity to improvise
lines and riff on one another, and all three were pretty good.

Ricky Bobby's kids were given some choice lines and nailed home some
great (albeit loud and aggro) deliveries. Amy Adams is totally hot. The
dad role was well-played. The car action was money and you couldn't
quite tell when it was CG and when it was recreated action, so that was
good. They did it right.

The overabundance of seeded advertising was acknowledged in the film's
dialogue and concretely addressed at the end of the movie (when Ricky
Bobby goes sponsorless0 but it was still kind of annoying. I just can't
understand how Hollywood blockbusters need more money. They could do
the same movie without the extra $$ I think, but in this particular
movie, set as it is with NASCAR, it certainly fits in the world we see
on screen if there is rampant, colorful advertising.

So it's a good movie, a lot of gut laughs, and not unlike Dodgeball or
Anchorman or the like...
<|_=00=_|>
Here is the review my wife and I wrote for cincity2000.com 

Talladega Superspeedway. For those unfamiliar, it is NASCAR's biggest
and fastest race track, and the setting for the latest Will Ferrell
comedy Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby. I'm no fan of
professional racing, but I do know funny. Put Will Ferrell in the
driver's seat of a stock car, cast John C. Reilly (so wonderful in
Chicago) as his best friend, and pit Sacha Baron Cohen (best known as
Ali G.) as his rival and you can be almost guaranteed a good movie.

Here's the dealÂ…Ricky Bobby (Will Ferrell) is born in the backseat of a
souped-up Chevelle. His motivation in life is given to him when he is
ten years old by his alcoholic father: "If you ain't first, you're
last." This mantra carries him to the pit crew of a losing race team.
When he's given the chance to finish a race, Ricky shows that there
isn't much he won't do to win. Teamed with his best friend Cal
Naughton, Jr. (Reilly) they become 'Shake and Bake' and go on to NASCAR
super-stardom. Ricky has the perfect life. A sexy wife, a family,
riches. Enter Jean Girard (Cohen), a flamboyant Frenchman who begins to
unravel Ricky's perfect world by beating him on and off the track.
Ricky is forced to deal with his own fears. And a cougar.

What's this, you say? A Comedy? Sounds more like the 'feel good' movie
of the summer! Perhaps I failed to mention that Jean Girard is a gay
married man (Andy Richter plays his husband in a decidedly underwritten
role) who sips espresso while he races. Or that Ricky and his wife
Carley (the hot Leslie Bibb) have two delinquent sons named Walker and
Texas Ranger. And how about the cougar? Oh, I know I mentioned the
cougar! All this and more mixes together very well under the comedic
eye of Adam McKay, who wrote (along with Ferrell) and directed.

Talladega Nights takes the whole All-American-Dream concept and makes
it funny. It's Rudy with belly laughs. Better yet, it's the Anchorman
of car racing, which makes sense since McKay did that movie, too. A lot
of the scenes felt improvised, but by seasoned professionals. And with
a great cast that included Gary Cole and Amy Adams, the jokes were
constant and seamless. From an extended dinner grace addressed to
'tiny, baby, Christmas Jesus' to Molly Shannon's portrayal of the
drunken wife of the team owner, the movie never failed to make you
laugh. As an added bonus, this movie also has some great action. The
race sequences were very believable and the crashes were amazing.

To be completely fair, there were moments when some of the scenes
dragged a little. And some characters you will not like as much as
others. But all in all, an enjoyable, laugh out loud experience for
anyone 13 years and up. Shake and Bake, baby!
<|_=00=_|>
You still get plenty of fast paced action, muscle cars, and massive car
crashes. You just get to laugh a lot too.

Will Ferrell really doesn't get enough credit for his acting. As
mindless as it seems, he still manages to make it believable. You have
to keep in mind it's usually during over-the-top parodies, so it's
supposed to be carefree and with complete disdain, yet he still manages
to make it intelligent most of the time (at least in this film), so the
result is far more than simple fart and gross-out type jokes.

He also had the benefit of writing this film, cast members like John C.
Reilly and Sasha Baron Cohen, and a focus for the film in deep need of
parody. NASCAR has been long overdue.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie does something that is rarely done successfully done, pokes
fun at the modern NASCAR circuit. Without detailing all the gags, this
is pure fun which doesn't offend the tastes too often. Will Farrell is
patently absurd as Ricky Bobby & the support he receives in this film
from the entire cast is excellent. Gary Cole is very solid as Ricky's
dad, & so is Jane Lynch as his mom. Amy Adams is solid too. In fact,
the entire cast including John C. Reilly seems to have been fit into
their roles like gloves.

Sasha Cohen comes off better in this as Ricky Bobbys French nemesis
than he does in even Borat. He is used perfectly & fits his role really
well. The story line works really well as the evolution from speed too
shake & bake too magic man & me helps keep the film focused on
something besides the jokes. There is just enough plot to hang the
jokes on. 

The script is lots of fun with references to lots of things besides
NASCAR & Sex (which is all too often the only thing done as comedy
today). This film proves that outrageous is much better than sex when
done right as comedy. Thank goodness this is much better than the ill
conceived BETWITCHED Farrell did in 2005. This film is really an
excellent showcase for everyone involved. If your a NASCAR fan, you
should even get some extra fun out of this one.

Get ready for the checkered flag Ricky Booby, this film is a winner all
the way.
<|_=00=_|>
When looking at the merits of a movie and decide whether it is good or
not, one must think of the goal of the picture. Is it a serious film,
designed to comment on society, or is the movie's job to merely
entertain? I think we all know the answer to this one when it comes to
Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby. This movie's goal is to
entertain the audience, make them laugh, make them spend an hour and a
half rejoicing in talented comedians doing their job well. And this
movie reached its goal. Not only is this movie an above-average sports
movie (it even concludes with a big race and a warm and fuzzy winner!),
but is also a very funny movie. All I had to do was listen to the
reaction of the sold out theater I was in and I knew that most people
will find this movie to be very funny. Will Ferrell is Ricky Bobby, a
NASCAR driver who makes up one half of "Shake and Bake," with John C.
Reilly's Cal Naughton, Jr. being the "Bake" half of the duo. They are
childhood friends who have now become teammates on the top NASCAR
level, where Cal sets up the play that lets Ricky win almost every
race--that is, unless Ricky has already crashed out of it. Talladega
Nights follows the same story arc that Days of Thunder did, but is far
more entertaining, as Ferrell and Reilly work together to bring humor
to all parts of the racer's lives, including a bizarre dinner ritual
that includes corporate sponsorship. Sure, the movie slows down for
about 20 minutes in the middle to develop plot, but that may have been
designed to give us, the audience, a break, allowing us to get ready
for the final scenes of the movie. Sacha Baron Cohen (aka Ali G, Borat)
plays the French Formula 1 driver who threatens to oust Ricky Bobby as
the best driver on the track, perhaps the funniest overall character in
the movie. There is not one scene with Cohen in it that isn't funny.
After watching this movie, it is clear why Will Ferrell takes his
comedies so seriously (watch the extras on the Elf DVD to see Ferrell
between scenes, he's not always "on" playing the clown on set)--he gets
the results he's looking for. This movie is laugh-out-loud funny pretty
much from start to finish, and seeing Gary Cole return to comedy as
Ricky Bobby's father will bring back memories of Office Space for a
moment, then this new character will win you over.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a fan of Will Ferrell and Sacha Baron Cohen (from Da Ali G
Show), you will love this movie. I saw it for free at a screening in
LA, and I must say that I expected it to be a rental-worthy "dumb
comedy"... one of those so-stupid-it's-funny flicks that I wouldn't
have paid to see at the theater. However, after seeing this film, let
me tell you that I can't wait to see it again and I'd definitely say
it's worth the 10 bucks to enjoy this film at the theater with a group
of friends! I very rarely laugh out loud during movies (and the friend
that I was with says the same thing), but we were both cracking up
almost the whole time!!! You definitely don't need to be into Nascar to
like this movie (I'm not). In addition to the hilarious red-neck
"dynamic duo" of Ferrell and John C. Reily, you'll love Sacha Cohen's
character, the gay French racer Jean Girard. And there are subtle
social & political commentaries on America throughout the movie that
made me smile! Go see for yourself when it opens in the theaters!
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like this movie.

It's obvious that Will Ferrell is a talented comedian; his work on
Saturday Night Live, his supporting roles in Old School and Wedding
Crashers and portions of Anchorman are all very funny. However, Ferrell
often seems to be playing the same character over and over, and with
Talladega Nights, Ferrell has taken this a step further, essentially
grafting the plot of Anchorman onto NASCAR Racing.

In theory, this should be hilarious, but in reality Talladega Nights
just doesn't hold up. The problems with the film are myriad:
inconsistent tone (too absurd one moment, too serious the next),
unlikable characters, and a general sense that you've seen this all
before. As in Anchorman, here Ferrell plays a boorish, unlikable
protagonist who has ascended to the top of his game and conducts
himself with varying degrees of arrogance, narcissism and idiocy; as
far as I could tell, the only reason one would care about the Ricky
Bobby character was because 1)you're supposed to because he is the main
character of the film or 2) he was played by Will Ferrell. While
Ferrell can be a charismatic guy, this charisma failed to carry over to
his portrayal of Ricky Bobby, to the point that I found myself actively
rooting against the Bobby character.

Additionally, the film follows a virtually identical plot arc as
Anchorman, down to the presence of an antagonist who threatens with
their "otherness" (in Anchorman a female news anchor, in Telledega
Night a gay race car driver), a crew of moronic sycophants and yes-men
to support the Ferrell character, and a denouement that strives to
leave you feeling uplifted. Sadly, all these elements felt forced and
stale (the Sacha Baron Cohen character is particularly grating, which
is all the more lamentable considering its potential.) 

Overall, while Telladega Nights did have some funny moments, nearly all
of them were shown in the preview; it's telling when the funniest
moments in the film come during the outtakes shown over the end
credits. Considering the talent involved in this film, the way that it
plays out should be considered a major disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie a LOT. I think it's annoying how people come on here
and whine and cry about poking fun at things...boo hoo he joked about
boobs or gay people or Jesus or whatever...every single comment I read
was someone who didn't like it because it offended them. It's a comedy,
grow up!! Of course it's going to make fun of things, what else would
make it funny? I thought that this movie was HILARIOUS, I am a very big
fan of Will Ferrell I can't think of one movie I seen with him in it
that I didn't like! So please, if you're that easily offended, next
time you wanna rent a movie, for all out sakes, DON'T pick up a comedy.
GEEZ!
<|_=00=_|>
Two summers ago, Will Ferrell and director Adam McKay teamed up for
Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy, the best display of
improvisational comedy on screen since Christopher Guest (Best in Show,
A Mighty Wind) entered the scene. This summer, the pair re-teamed for a
sort of quasi-sequel as evidenced by the colon and "The Legend of" in
the title. Will Ferrell stars as moderately dim-witted race car driver
Ricky Bobby who differs from Anchorman's protagonist Ron Burgundy in
that he is a more fully-fleshed out character. His need for speed on
the track is guided by a void left by his race car driving dad's (Gary
Cole's) abandonment. Along for the ride is the ever-so-versatile John
C. Riley as perennial sidekick Cal Naughton Jr. who literally finishes
second to him in every race. He suggests to his buddy maybe, just once,
he can let him win just once to which Ricky Bobby replies, "Well I see
where you're coming from but if you win, how am I gonna win." 

Talladega is more likable to its subject than a strict satire, because
it firmly implants itself in the Nascar world and picks on its more
absurd elements. In particular, the heavy emphasis on sponsorship in
NASCAR takes a heavy beating with things like Ricky Bobby being
contractually obligated to include Powerade in his grace. The ensemble
of characters doesn't produce that same energy that Anchorman had, but
Talladega Nights did have some priceless bits of humor and it works
just as well, perhaps even better, as a feel-good movie.
