
All too often people like to rag on movies like this. Not every movie
to hit the cinema will be Oscar worthy, Not every movie will be written
with a story that will move you to tears or challenge your thinking.
Set your expectations for the movie you will see and you are less
likely to be disappointed. 

Chips is an entertaining cop buddy flick, rated R and has some adult
humor. Both Pena and Shepard play their parts well and along the way
the movie pokes fun at itself and the genre. There are plenty of laughs
to be had here and overall the movie went at a steady pace. There is
nothing ground breaking in it but I wanted a laugh, I got a laugh.
Hopefully it does well enough at the box office to get a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
As a preface, I have never seen an episode of the original show; I knew
Estrada was in it and that's all. So, if you're a fan of the series, I
cannot say whether you will enjoy this film (though based on other
reviews I've read, it seems unlikely). 

What I can tell you is that I had low expectations and just wanted a
laugh. Dax Sheppard's films have always been hit-or-miss for me. When I
bought the tickets, I wasn't even aware that it was rated R. 

I was very pleasantly surprised! My friend and I both laughed non-stop
at the off-the-wall humor. The success of the jokes was in the delivery
- often very deadpan and unexpected. Some reviewers complained about
the sex addiction/masturbation jokes, but I found them hilarious due to
Sheppard's sincere concern and Peña's awkward embarrassment.

As a motorcyclist, I very much enjoyed all the bike action and liked
that they kept it relatively realistic (but don't look for realism as a
general rule; that's not what comedy is about) regarding the necessary
skills (Ponche thought he could match Baker and was sorely mistaken)
and the comparative speed of a lightweight sport bike vs. the clunky
cruisers. I also loved that, when they upgraded to sport bikes
themselves, they wore proper full-body riding gear instead of promoting
riding in street clothes as most films do. 

In short: this is a riot, not an Oscar-winner. Go for laughs, not for a
serious cop film.
<|_=00=_|>
At least 3 occasions I almost walked out, but my wife wanted to suffer
through to the end so we stayed. This was the typical "cop- buddy"
comedy, with one key difference from say the Starsky and Hutch remake:
It was not funny at all.

When I say not funny at all, I did not even crack a smile, and found
myself looking at my watch. The plot is totally ridiculous, and the
jokes were primarily about Ponche's sex addiction where he has to
masturbate in public bathrooms, yes I am not kidding. Another theme is
about Ponche's fetish about eating women's butts, clean or dirty. Yes,
I am not kidding. That was a central plot line.

Then there is John Baker his partner. He is basically portrayed as a
opiate pill head who drives his bike high on opiates who has not taken
a dump in weeks. 

Then there is the "hilarious" sequence where Ponch keeps crashing his
motorcycle. Here again, it just was not funny. 

I guess if you are a teenager you might find the non stop
bathroom/sexual stuff funny. I just cannot fathom how any adult could
walk out of the theater with any other impression than they just wasted
2 hours of their life.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I have a hard time rating movies, and more specifically
comedies. Because comedies generally try to do nothing other than make
you laugh, it's easier to let plot and character development (etc)
slide, as you might not with other genres of movies. This is the
typical R rated comedy of this day and age - over the top, raunchy
comedy that focuses mostly on human anatomy jokes. If you hate those
movies, avoid it at all costs. If you like them, then you'll probably
like this. 

At the screening I saw this at just about everyone after the film was
talking about how they liked it, and there was certainly a lot of
laughter in the theater throughout the movie. 

This movie had a few moments of truly laugh out loud hilarity, outside
of those few moments the rest of the comedy was there, but it was
pretty generic.

Look, you know what type of movie this is (raunchy comedy). If you go
to the theater and drop your $ and don't like it, that's on you.
<|_=00=_|>
I was never a great fan of the 1970s show CHIPS. Most of my peers liked
it a lot and I could see why because it was a fairly likable show
featuring a couple of fairly likable characters played by a couple
fairly likable actors. The downside was that like so much American
television from the period it gets a little bit preachy , but apart
from that it was a likable show featuring a couple of likable
characters in the California Highway Patrol in a likable American TV
show 

"Hey Theo can you use any other adjectives apart from likable ?
otherwise this comment will end up becoming unlikable" 

Sorry to bring irony in to this comment but you can see the point I'm
making. When I saw the trailer I thought "Why does Hollywood
continually remake popular TV shows as crude comedies that have nothing
in common with the source material ? " Well one reason might be cynical
capitalism where they know they're fleecing the public. By the time bad
word of mouth spreads the damage and the profits are done so nothing
else matters 

If you've seen the trailers you'll be scracting your head what this
film has in common with the TV show CHIPS. It contains toilet humour ,
gay jokes and other near the knuckle humour . If nothing at least the
trailer is accurate . Within the first ten minutes I'd lost count of
the number of F and S words featured so much so I thought I was
watching a Scorsese movie. On top of that the humour is dreadful
featuring toilet humour , sexual jokes about someone's wife and ...
well stuff that 15 year old boys would consider juvenile . Some people
might enjoy this but I found it a genuinely unlikable film
<|_=00=_|>
Comedian Dax Shepard has been acting on screen for years without making
it big. He is perhaps best known as Kristen Bell's husband and being
part of the main cast in drama series Parenthood" which doesn't
actually say a whole lot either. 

But he is one of those actors who is willing to write, produce and even
direct his own stuff if satisfying offers don't come his way. And
CHIPS" must be one of these pet projects, because he fills all four
jobs mentioned above, sharing the screen with co-star Michael Peña. 

There are actually bunch of other cool faces around in smaller roles,
including  of course  Kristen Bell. But it's mostly about Shepard and
Peña offering a buddy action comedy, so if you feel like you could like
them, it's half a win for the movie already. 

(Sadly, there's smaller number of famous friends on screen than in
Shepard's previous projects, 2010's Brother's Justice" and 2012's Hit
and Run". I guess Bradley Cooper and Tom Arnold felt that they have
done enough for him and let him sink or swim alone now.)

Shepard is convincing in the sensitive/wise doofus role that he has
chosen to himself, although his acting range seems limited in general. 

So he has surrounded himself with some rock solid players, starting
with Peña who has the coveted ability to make every movie a bit more
better just by appearing there. In this regard, he's like a young- ish
Latin version of Morgan Freeman, or something. 

What is more important here: Peña can effortlessly do action, drama and
comedy and there's need for all three here, Shepard couldn't hold the
fort alone. And speaking of solid, we also have Vincent D'Onofrio who
is every inch as imposing and magnetic as we have come to expect from
this veteran thespian.

Based on the classic TV series of the same name (1977-83), it's about
the adventures of two California Highway Patrol cops. But it's not the
eighties anymore, so we get currently widespread type of raunchy
mainstream comedy with some action. 

If you want to measure the general style of the story and also the
nastiness of the dialogue, you should check out the Red Band trailer,
for example. It is not able to effectively share the quite enjoyable
buddy comedy vibe CHIPS" has during most of its running time, but you
do get an idea if you would like to see some more of it.

The result is probably most enjoyable for the little teenage boy in all
of us, with plenty of cursing, light violence and sex- or body- related
jokes. If you can't catch their wave, you will probably be a little
tired when the end comes. 

I actually enjoyed most of this raunchy silliness although I felt that
the ending felt a bit rushed and half-hearted.

It's easy to imagine that the success of 21 Jump Street" movies made
pitching the project and gathering the money for CHIPS" easier for
Shepard & Co. 

The projects are quite similar: old and loved TV series turned into
modern American comedy, two likable guys in the middle of it all,
verbally sparring, punching and shooting their way to glory.
<|_=00=_|>
Being one of my favorite TV shows from my child hood I was dreading
this remake, but if you let go of the past you will enjoy this movie
for what it is and its just light fun with some really funny moments.

Plot wise its pretty predictable but is was not 2 hours of my life
wasted and in the end I enjoyed the new CHIPS.

Ignore the critic wannabe's and give it a go, just don't expect
anything from the 80's or that will make you think.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. In a Hollywood self-congratulatory
world that considers sequels, reboots and remakes as creative projects;
and imitation as the most sincere form of flattery  not to mention the
safest hedged bet  it's not in the least surprising that we now have a
film version of "CHiPs", a lightweight and popular TV show that ran
from 1977 through 1983. What should be surprising is that a studio
entrusted Dax Shepard with the ultimate slash role of
Director/Writer/Producer/Actor for this contemporary version.

Of course, as with film versions of "21 Jump Street" and "Starsky and
Hutch", the target audience isn't really those who watched the original
TV series, but rather the group of big-spending millennials who seem to
thrive on raunchy humor, while placing minimal value on a coherent or
interesting story. Buddy cop films that blend tense drama,
wise-cracking partners and eye-widening action have long been popular,
with the jewel of the genre being Lethal Weapon. This latest entry does
nothing to threaten the now 30 year reign of Mel Gibson and Danny
Glover.

Dax Shepard stars in his own film as Jon Baker, now reinvented as a
former X-games motorcycle champ who is attempting to save his
long-fizzled marriage by becoming a cop. The rookie's partner is
undercover FBI Agent Frank "Ponch" Poncherello played by Michael Pena.
Each has their own personal issues: Jon is addicted to prescription
painkillers, and Ponch struggles to control certain urges  and
unfortunately for viewers, the two spend an inordinate amount of time
discussing these issues.

The crime wave they are attempting to bust involves a corrupt cop.
Seeing that Vincent D'Onofrio is in the cast immediately takes away any
mystery about the bad guy's identity, but were there any doubt, the
film exposes him in the first action sequence. After that comes the
onslaught of verbal sparring, explosions, gunplay and one especially
gory moment.

With Dax Shepard at the helm, we understand going in that the raunchy
humor faucet will be fully open. Topics covered in one-liners, gags and
recurring themes include: homophobia, sexting, masturbating, bowel
movements, marriage therapy, d**k jokes, prescription drugs, paparazzi,
and yoga pants. But seriously, how many "eating a**" jokes does one
movie need? It's a topic that goes from uncomfortable to unnecessary
pretty quickly.

Cars and bikes are vital here, though it seems that the motorcycle
stunts could have been jazzed up a bit, and we certainly expected more
cameos than the mandatory one near the end. The original series thrived
on being 'tongue in cheek', and Mr. Shepard's version brings new
meaning to the phrase. The opening credits state "The California
Highway Patrol does not endorse this film. At all." It's an
understandable stance.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember 21 Jump Street (2012)? Boy that was a fun movie. In many ways
it was the perfect meta-commentary of the type of low-stakes, low-rent,
low-brow crap Hollywood has been throwing at us recently like chimps in
a mismanaged zoo. Literally anything and I mean anything with even a
modicum of franchise potential is being made and remade and remade
again these days. Thus when 21 Jump Street (based on a soapy
cheap-looking TV show) reared its ugly head, I for one was clenching
for an awful night at the cinema.

In many ways I was expecting something like Chips, i.e. an
ill-conceived, aged and offensive grotesquery that at best is a watered
down version of literally everything you've already seen. Remember all
those completely forgetful Martin Lawrence clones that were hammered
out one-by-one in the early 2000's? Me neither; how about those equally
forgettable Kevin Hart movies? Okay, getting warmer. Well imagine that
plus a big fat layer of tepid, lazy direction and you got the basic
ingredients for what should honestly be renamed "Bullchips." Chips was
directed, written and stars Dax Shepard who you may remember as the
dude in Without a Paddle (2004) who was not Matthew Lillard or Seth
Green. Here he plays Jon Baker, an over-the-hill Motocross athlete who,
according to co-star Michael Pena, is "always two-beers too familiar."
He's the typical California "dude" who's far too self-involved to
notice he's a walking, talking stereotype. Or at least he is until the
script asks him not to be.

Speaking of stereotypes, Michael Pena takes the place of the
rambunctious Erik Estrada as Poncherello. In this universe he's an
undercover FBI Agent searching for dirty cops, stolen loot and
California dimes willing to give it up to the "Ponch". While it's easy
to say Pena is the best part of this movie; saying that would be like
complimenting the only cylinder firing on a broken motor.

Chips is based off the famed 1970's TV show which ran from 1977 until
1983. As you would expect from something that hasn't been figuratively
opened since the 70's, this film is a festering gob of unrecognizable
gunk. The police procedural portions of the film are rote and redundant
while the duo-building moments of banter reek, of awkwardness and
fragile male egoisms that haven't been funny since the Reagan
Administration. Yet there they are, on the screen just begging
audiences to laugh as Baker and Ponch discuss at length the preference
and frequency of night-long a**-licking.

Aside from the film's boorish leads, Chips has a hard time
communicating who or what we should actually care about. The audience
is made aware of who our bad guys are long before our leads do, yet the
film goes through so many airless, dimensionless minutes trying to coax
our heroes in the right direction. Then the film goes into fruitless
avenues to play out juvenile bits for the sake of little or no
information pertinent to the story. Then, to add insult to injury they
flip through a Highway Patrol database and randomly point to their bad
guy because of nothing more than a mean look.

It gets worse. Shepard's Baker for example takes a lot in stride  His
wife's obvious infidelity, his advanced age, Ponch's bathroom habits
etc. He takes it all in stride with the exception of his work which he
takes on with the vigor of a newly endowed meter maid. It's supposed to
be a reoccurring joke yet because the movie is so shoddily edited there
are so many, either setups that are never executed or comedic payoffs
that seem to come out of nowhere. Then they simply drop it in favor of
Ponch's romance, I guess with a fellow officer (Bock)? Through all the
mired, half-realized nonsense, only one thing remains clear  Chips was
trying, trying to follow the exact same playbook as 21 Jump Street. Yet
while 21 Jump had the rare quality of being reliably absurd and
self-referential, this thing is just a vulgar, incompetent mess with
little worthwhile to say other than "watch out for yoga pants!"
<|_=00=_|>
*Minor Spoilers Ahead* An FBI agent (Michael Pena) is facing discipline
from his superiors at the Miami office. He worked as an undercover
operative in a gang that robbed a bank but while they were being
rounded up, they took one of the agents Clay Allen (Adam Brody)
hostage. Instead of dealing with the criminal, he shoots him through
Allen. He also mentions that he banged the guy's wife while the
criminal is being arrested. Back at the office, he's berated by his
boss Peterson (Isiah Whitlock Jr.) for being reckless and possibly
being a sex addict. He tells him that he needs some time away from
Miami and that they'd been contacted by the California Highway Patrol
about getting some help from the Bureau. There's been a rash of
armoured car robberies by gangs on motorcycles in Los Angeles. They
think there's some inside help for the gang and they could possibly be
looking for a mole. The agent seems excited until he finds out his
undercover name is Francis Poncherello.

His partner is a rookie named Jon Baker (Dax Shepard). Baker's
impressive riding a motorcycle (he's a former competitive motocross
champion and he's had several surgeries from crashing to prove it) but
he's not very good at much else. He means well and his earnestness wins
over the department into graduating him into the CHP on a probationary
period. He's excited to tell his wife Karen (Kristen Bell) but they've
been separated for more than a year and she doesn't seem too interested
in what he's up to. Between the two of them, they have to solve these
robberies and root out the corruption plaguing the CHP.

Most people know Dax as an actor (I remember him from Without a Paddle)
but he's actually directed movies before (Brother's Justice and Hit and
Run). I really didn't like Hit and Run but the note I took from that
movie was that he knew how to create some gorgeous shots of cars and
car chases. He continues that here and while the action scenes aren't
superhero flashy, they feature some pretty solid riding and some almost
pornographic sequences of these beautiful motorcycles and what they can
do. It was one of the better parts of the movie and it shows that you
don't have to have a gigantic budget to entertain action movie junkies.

You don't really expect extensive character development in a comedy. It
can be one of those things that's a nice touch but it's rarely
essential. CHIPS wasn't an especially deep movie but I did like the
friendship that eventually formed between Ponch and Baker. I actually
felt sorry for Baker despite the fact he was useless in essential
functions of his job. He's oblivious to the situation he faces and it
takes someone like Ponch to open his eyes just enough to comprehend
what's going on. Shepherd and Pena play off each other well enough and
you don't mind following them through this story.

I'm a really big fan of some of the actors/actresses in this cast.
Michael Pena is one of those guys that can cross genres and always
improves the quality of something he's in. Shepherd also has his own
kind of laid-back charm. I think that neither of them are bad in this
movie but their performances suffer from the tonal inconsistencies that
CHIPS has. Neither of them are really "the straight man" or the normal
person you see in a buddy-cop movie. They both go from regular guys to
goofy bros on a dime and it fluctuates completely from scene to scene.
Both of them are funny here but neither of them are consistent or
really hilarious. I did like some of the actors/actresses in the
supporting parts. Rosa Salazar, Jessica McNamee, Adam Brody and Isiah
Whitlock are all decent in their respective parts. Kristen Bell was
good in here small part as well. I really like Vincent D'Onofrio and I
felt bad for him. He showed up to work and delivers a solid dramatic
performance but he seems like he's in a different movie. He's
completely serious when everyone else is cracking d!@% jokes.

Other than the flip-floppy tone of CHIPS, the other reason I didn't
spot it more points is that it wasn't that funny. I did laugh a little
throughout the movie but there wasn't anything really memorable about
the comedy or lines I'm going to be quoting later. Most of the funny
bits are spoiled in the trailer and while I never got angry, the humour
gets pretty juvenile (the movie comments on homophobia but it has a few
gay jokes that seem questionable). They also play certain jokes out a
little too long like Ponch's weakness for yoga pants or the fact that
John can't deal with the smell of someone else's house.

I wanted to see this movie but it was hard not to get scared off by the
other reviews that people were putting online. Having seen CHIPS, this
could have been a lot worse. It's hard to organically weave real drama
into a movie that's trying to be funny and vice-versa so I appreciate
the movie trying but it came up a little short. I do think this is a
step up for Shepherd and his movies seem to be getting better as he
continues his career as a director. The movie this reminds me of is
Keeping Up With the Joneses. There are better comedies out there but if
you can keep expectations low, you might end up liking this.
