
Saw this the other night at the NYFF. Wow. It's an incredible film, a
true cinematic achievement, possibly a classic and maybe will be the
first 3D movie to break through and win the Best Picture Oscar. Some of
the images were so beautiful that the audience gasped at many of them.
I felt transported and like I was seeing a movie for the very first
time. I haven't felt that sort of magic in a movie theater in a long,
long time.

I read the book and liked it and the film may even improve upon it
which is kind of a miracle considering it's kids, animals and water
just about all the time. The spiritual themes are simple and deep and
raise more questions about faith and belief than answer anything. No
preaching going on here and there could be. Without giving anything
away, it's a wonderful story about storytelling and how telling our
stories can get us through the most horrible life experiences and to
help deal with the aftermath of them.

It's an incredible film experience. Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie narrates an incredible story using the most beautiful special
effects and great actors.

It is more that a survival story and it is not about friendship. This
story is about faith. Director Ang Lee use all the tools he have to
make this movie about a solitary young man not a boring one. It is
narrated by both, young Pi and the Adult Pi, it uses music all the time
so there is not space for uncomfortable silents and the rhythm of the
scenes is fast. The result a very entertained film.

The most important thing of this film is it character. It is obvious
because we are seeing for almost 2 hours just one character. So it is
not only important to have a great character that appeals to the
audience feelings, but to have an actor that portray this person the
right way. Suraj Sharma was brilliant as Pi. He can make happy scenes
as equal as sad, desperate, hopelessness, exhaustion and anger ones.
Very few movies allow an actor represent so many emotions.

But if Pi is a good character, Richard Parker can only be describe as
unique. The tiger as personality of it's own. Not many films can make
an animal with so many human features and yet never stop being a wild
animal. This tiger is computed animated but the audience will barely
notice, because the way it walks, eats, its factions, the eyes. It
doesn't matter if it is computer animation, Richard Parker is alive and
is his own character just as important as Pi is.

If you think that "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" have good animal
effects, you have to see how this people make a zebra, a hyena and a
orangutan. All this, combine with a photography created by the same guy
that make "Tron: Legacy" looks so cool and "The Curious Case of
Benjamin Button" so beautiful, Claudio Miranda, makes it an incredible
experience to see.

This movie is definitely an Oscar runner for Special Effects,
Cinematography, Director and Movie of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see Pi in full 3D Imax at a pre-viewing in San
Diego last night, and as a huge fan of the book, I was intensely
satisfied.

Believe it or not, I was more impressed with the the casting choices
and performances of the players than by the effects. Granted, the movie
was very beautiful, but in the end, Life Of Pi was more character
driven than anything. Suraj Sharma as the young Pi was charming, funny,
and incredibly engaging, while Irrfan Khan as the older Pi was
fantastically genuine and warm. Adil Hussain as Pi's father was also a
joy to watch. The characters are so rich and full of life that you
really can't help but fall in love with them. I would also like to add,
as someone who spends time with tigers on a daily basis, the animators
did a wonderful and accurate job of bringing Richard Parker to life and
making him the active and vital character that is so incredibly
essential to the success of this story. 

I would recommend seeing Pi in 3D, but I don't think that's it's
essential to your viewing enjoyment. The 3D just takes a beautiful film
and makes it a little bit nicer. Also, if you've read the book and are
concerned that the story you loved may have been compromised in anyway,
worry no longer. This is easily, one of the best book to film
adaptations I have ever seen.

Happy viewing folks. I hope you enjoy this film as much as I did. I'll
be seeing it again in theaters very soon.
<|_=00=_|>
''I had to tame him,'' (Pi) realizes. ''It was not a question of him or
me, but of him and me. We were, literally and figuratively, in the same
boat." From Life of Pi by Yann Martel.

You will see no more imaginative film this year than Life of Pi, whose
conceit of a young Indian boy stranded with a Bengal Tiger in a
lifeboat amid the Pacific Ocean is fantastical yet real in its
metaphoric implications. While the framing device of a story told to a
stranger uses the old flashback, the lonely lifeboat is as new as any
story told in the last century.

The film begs interpretation from the multiplicity of religions to the
place of mankind in a hostile, Darwinian world. Ultimately the benign
brotherhood of beasts and humans is affirmed not so much by lofty
philosophy but by the necessity of man and beast working together to
survive.

The digital rendering of animals, especially the Bengal Tiger, is
beautiful to behold. The opening scene in Pi's family zoo could be
right out of Terence Malick's visionary camera, a montage of nature
gorgeous in its simplicity. The several formalistic shots of the boat
at night are worthy of the best lighting in the best aquariums in the
world. Together with the impressive use of 3D, director Ang Lee has
visually taken us from the opulence of Crouching Tiger and the
minimalism of Brokeback Mountain into a fusion world of fancy and
reality. The images are stunning.

In the end, Lee is interested in the individual's place in the universe
as he struggles to harness nature and yet live in harmony with these
elements. The conflict with the gross cook aboard the Japanese cargo
ship taking Pi's family and animals to Canada is emblematic of the
challenges facing the gifted with the groundlings. Pi's relationship
with tiger "Richard Parker" represents all mankind's struggle to live
in harmony with the forces it cannot control.

"Believing in everything is the same as believing in nothing," says
Pi's father because Pi samples religions from Hinduism and Buddhism to
Catholicism and Judaism and wants them all. Although it is not given to
us to have them all, Pi's piety practically makes us believers in the
universal brotherhood.

The Life of Pi is everyone's life; the film is one of the best of the
year and, even remembering the greatness of The Old Man and the Sea,
Moby Dick, and Billy Budd, the best you will ever see about a boy, a
tiger, and a boat.
<|_=00=_|>
Few movies will leave a lasting impression on you..Life of Pi is one of
those. Not even a single moment is dull, in fact the story is woven so
tightly that you never realize that the script is so simple. It is
beautifully directed and kudos to Ang Lee, not only was he able to
capture the beauty of India, he was also able to get the best of the
actors. Though it does not rank too high on 3D, its just visually
mesmerizing. My trust and faith in Ang Lee has gone up to the highest
level after watching this movie..Luckily I was able to catch the
premiere show and will continue to relish the after effects of the
movie for the next few days!
<|_=00=_|>
With his latest movie, "Life of Pi", Ang Lee further establishes
himself as one of the greatest contemporary movie directors. Starting
from his Taiwanese beginnings, and his highly enjoyable,
family-harmonizing "Father Knows Best" trilogy (1992-1994), through his
Academy Award winning works on gracefully choreographed, highly
spiritualized Far East martial arts tour de force "Crouching Tiger,
Hidden Dragon" (2000, best foreign-language film) and on an uncommon
yet nostalgic portrayal of the Old West in "Brokeback Mountain" (2005,
best director), to his other titles like "Sense and Sensibility"
(1995), "The Ice Storm" (1997), and "Lust, Caution" (2007), quality and
Kubrick-like versatility shown in his movies offer continuous
attraction for wide audience of his admirers.

Lee's latest and, so far, easily, greatest movie, "Life of Pi" is based
on a screenplay adapted from the acclaimed fictional adventure novel
written by Canadian author Yann Martel.

Throughout his childhood, due to matching pronunciation of French word
"piscine" (pool, swimming pool) and English word "pissing", Piscine
Molitor Patel, named that way after later abandoned Parisian swimming
pool, so predictably suffers from being nicknamed "Pissing Patel". In
order to avoid it, once in high school he finally shortens his name to
Pi Patel... Nowadays middle-aged Pi tells the story of his life to a
visiting writer, apparently a book author Yan Martel's alter ego, who
is seeking for the literal inspiration. Retrospectively, Pi divides his
childhood and adolescence into three segments. In the first segment he
gives shorter account of his life until the age of 16, describing his
interaction with his family and schoolmates, in particular his
relationship with his father and a girlfriend, concentrating on his
exploits of God and spirituality, meandering between multitude of
religious practices while in the last one he briefs about his
testimonial given to officials from the Japanese Ministry of Transport,
investigating the reasons why the ship his family was relocating on
from India to Canada sank. Most detailed, and therefore the longest, is
recollection of his 227 days in a lifeboat, an extraordinary ordeal he
went through after the ship has capsized and everybody else, crew and
passengers, died 

Well, everybody human, but not everybody living. Namely, a number of
terrestrial animals from their discontinued family zoo, offered for
sale and brought along with other family belongings, have survived,
too. But, not for long, because, while confined in the most limited
space as they were, surrounded by vastness of the ocean, the law of the
"survival of the fittest" prevails, takes its tall, and pretty soon Pi
finds himself in a company of a single one topping the food-chain, a
Bengal tiger curiously named Richard Parker. 

Not to reveal the story further, it is with greatest pleasure to inform
that cinematic excellence has been achieved in several categories: in
an engaging talewhether allegory or depiction of realistic, believable
events, filled with protagonist's rarely matched curiosity, imagination
and his often reasonably unanswered doubts, encouraging the same in
viewersof an uncommon character, indeed, brought to on-screen life by
outstanding performances from two contributing leads, remarkably
presented via ubiquitous, yet inconspicuous animation, exceptional, CGI
aided visuals and superb usage of 3D photography, all along
complemented with an uplifting score. All these assets work seamlessly
together in unfolding an intense relationship between Pi and Richard
Parker, complex yet basic, difficult yet simple, initially charged with
Pi's dreadful fear, swiftly shifting to respectful care, instantly
boosting his never overbearing confidence and relentlessly improving
his survival skills. Wholesome artistic experience reaches and
maintains its pinnacle particularly in clever tactics and constructive
survival techniques 16-year old Pi usesamply benefiting from his
instructive lifestyle of a zoo owner's attentive son, certainly well
acquainted with animal psychologyto suppress the fear and convincingly
impose himself as an equal to the one of the most elaborate "killing
machines" among mammals, desperately striving for his own survival,
nevertheless, generously, for survival of his seemingly sufficiently
tamed companion, but still, initially and ultimately, magnificent
adversary, Richard Parker, as well.

"Life of Pi" is, certainly, one of the most impressive movies of 2012,
year that has just come to a close.
<|_=00=_|>
Just finished watching the Midnight Premiere. Did not disappoint one
bit. The Acting is incredibly believable, and the ending ties it all
together. The story sorta drags in the beginning, but Ang Lee did a
good job keeping my attention to the film. The Animation is incredibly
realistic. I couldn't tell the difference between what was real and
what wasn't. Not one moment did I doze off. Definitely worth 127
minutes of your life. Ang Lee, you did an outstanding job. To the Cast,
you all did excellent. I am very satisfied! Although there were a lot
of pros, there were some cons. At one point the Format of the Film
switched from 16:9 to 4:3, but that might have been the projector at
the Cinemark I attended. I also noticed some of the animations of
animals started to go off screen and you could see the animated objects
in the black area of the Wide Screen part (I'm assuming that was for
the 3D, but I watched it in 2D so it looked sketchy). But it's minor.
An average viewer won't even notice it, I'm an aspiring filmmaker, and
I notice the little things!! I enjoyed the film, and you will too.
9/10. Worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Ang lee's life of pi is an adaptation of a 'Man booker prize winner'
novel by the same name, written by Yann Martel. It's a story set in the
late seventies of an Indian teenager (Pi Patel) who is stranded on a
life boat in the pacific. What distinguishes this tale of survival from
the rest is that the author dishes out a delicious slice of creativity
in giving the castaway, a tiger for a companion. Yes, like the posters
and trailers have you believe, there is a boat on which a man and a
tiger have to live! This makes 'life of pi' not only a story of human
struggle against nature but also a profound tale that questions 'what
separates man from beast?'. More interestingly, 'when does man become a
beast'? 

But worry not, Ang Lee's movie does not force you think on these lines
, instead it's a film that lets you enjoy it on so many levels. If you
are just looking for a beautiful 3D movie to feast your eyes , Life of
pi can be it. If you are in a mood for a thrilling adventure epic on
weekend, this is the right ticket. If indeed, you want to experience
something thoughtful, Life of pi never forces you on a particular
thought, instead it whispers ever so slightly to think about matters of
human disposition and finding comfort in convention while caressing
your senses with fabulous visuals and background score. 

Suraj Sharma debuts as pi with utter sincerity while Irfan Khan(as
adult pi) and Tabu(as mother) do justice to their parts. The rest of
the supporting cast blend in perfectly too. Ang lee helms the film with
difficult source material with absolute grace and expertise. However
there are two true heroes that make Life of Pi work. Firstly the studio
and creative director behind the magnificent CGI. The Bengal tiger is
perhaps the best animated animal ever created! The angry green eyes,
richly textured orange white striped skin and every hair on its fur
look rich and full of life in 3D.And then when your hear the thunderous
roar for the first time, you will realize this is as real as it can
get! The rest of the animals (a Zebra, an orangutan) look great too.
The lovely blue ocean and its resident creatures are the jewel in the
crown. The other hero is the writer David Magee(screenplay) who adapts
the novel with near perfection. One gripe the fans of the novel might
have is the lack of all the gore descriptions and a particular chapter
that deals with the surviving 'French cook'. The addition of these
might have pleased the audience who sought for the philosophical
undertones from the story but the film would have lost out on the large
PG-13 crowd (a fair deal considering the enormous budget). 

Life of Pi, is a rare masterpiece that stands as a prototype not only
for a perfect book adaptation and a 3D movie( sorry avatar, you have
just been replaced), but also for a movie based on intricacies of human
nature . Now that is simply an impressive triumph of film-making!
<|_=00=_|>
According to mythology the journey of life is splayed with different
forms of hurdles, the path to salvation lies in standing tall against
such hurdles even if the Gods are callous to your understanding. By
maintaining hope we try to live up to their expectation, knowing that
God will guide us if we keep fighting on our endeavor for greater good.
That's pretty much the whole and soul of the movie. Opened first time
in India at IFFI 2012 Goa, I was in the mix of lucky few who got to
watch the repeat show of this 3D movie adapted from Yann Martel's book
of same title.

Piscine Molitor(Pi) Patel as he was named after a swimming pool by his
dear uncle apparent by his ardent love for the same. Piscine is born
Hindu in Pondicherry India, but as he levels a understanding he begins
to peek into other religion and sooner he starts endorsing Christianity
and Islam also. His father, a zoo owner pounces upon a chance of
relocating the zoo to Canada. On their way to far west with animals on
a Japanese ship, tragedy struck on a murderous stormy night capsizing
the ship with Pi and a Royal Bengal Tiger left to see the remains. And
so the adventures journey of innocent young boy with life threatening
feline animal begins.

There was the thunderous applause from the audiences when the tiger
gives his first appearance in the safety boat. Spending months to
produce the Tiger didn't go waste too, he looked inch perfect and the
way he has been handled in the movie is exquisite. The first few scenes
are reminiscent of old India with bullock carts, later the landscape
changes and so do the people. The characters of hot blooded modern day
father, the supporting mother and the story involving the tender love
between the protagonist and the girl are delightful however short they
may be. The innocence of young Pi through his school years and his
introduction to motley of faiths sets up the foundation to his uncanny
characterization. But the real fun starts when they are both lost at
sea and Pi tries assortment of ideas to keep him as well as the Tiger
alive. The movie is never complete without the mention of adequately
yet delicately used VFX. It would really be a shame to put into words
those magnificently shot sequences and the scale on which the art work
is done. This movie epitomizes the correct com-mixture of story with
special effects. I could gather so many 'wows' while I was myself
devouring on the same scenes. The humor is well prevalent and does
lighten up the few still scenes between the two.

Suraj Sharma plays the most significant role in the movie with all his
efforts and he wins it in the end. The guy is awesome handling some
tough intense scenes in the movie. Irfan Khan playing the narrator as
well as the older Pi shows his maturity in the business, patient with
the small parts he never misses his character and his narration and
dialog's delivery is to die for. Adil Hussain as Pi's father is superb
with his character and does contribute a hell lot. Other actors
contribute evenly including the computer generated zoo animals. Real
salute to the art directors of the movie for putting up such beautiful
pictures on screen. Ang Lee is as always incomparable with his cinema,
he has definitely reached shore with this movie and a more versatile
director in my book.

The older promises the character he is narrating that he will prove him
that God exists, well did he or not? For that you have to wait for that
amazing climax scene. This is art, storytelling and VFX at his best in
a single movie. Who would want to miss that??
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be honest here: Life of Pi is a pretty looking movie with a
rather dismal plot, and a pretentious religious subtext thrown in there
for good measure.

Life of Pi might not be a bad movie. Realistically it would get maybe a
4 or 5 out of 10, but seeing as there's so many positive reviews here
and all of them seem to be from either fanboys of the book, or people
who haven't seen very many movies at all, I figured a 1 would be best
to balance things out.

No doubt the film has some humorous moments that are indeed very funny,
like the tiger peeing in Pi's face, Pi's "rules", and what not, and the
film has tons of pretty visuals. A lot of the film takes place on a
boat, and at times it looks like they used a real ocean to film it on.
Not to mention the jellyfish scene was pretty, it was almost like James
Cameron's Avatar. 

But... the plot is just so vapid and pretentious, it defies
description. Basically, the film throws around a lot of religious
references, and it takes up a good portion of the plot, but dear LORD
most of the time, the religious references were as subtle as bricks in
a drying machine. At times it's like the writers are smacking you
across the face with a bible. And when he father asked Pi (as a child)
early in the film "how many more religions are you going to convert
to?" (or something like that), I should have taken that as an
indication as how the rest of the movie would be.

Oh and the many random moments which included (but weren't limited to):
the strange 2:35.1 Aspect ratio change where suddenly a bunch of fish
start flying out of the water into the boat (including WINGED fish that
seemed like a Michael Bay wet dream), a carnivorous island full of
meerkats (though to be fair, the meerkats scene was like a cuteness
overdose), and humpback whale bit. Yeah. 

There were parts of the film I enjoyed, but it honestly was just not a
very good movie. It was like eating a platter full of candy and sugary
sweets. Lots to indulge in and munch down on, but you've devoured
nothing of substance by the end, and you're left with a stomach ache.
And throwing a religious subtext in it doesn't mean the film is good or
anything... It's just pretentious.

So yeah, like I said. Realistically my rating would be a 4 or 5 out of
10, but the 8.4 rating and amounts of 10/10 reviews here is just
ridiculous.
