
The horrible crude scenes leave a bad taste and overshadow any funny
scenes. I think the Farrelly Brothers wanted to recapture the success
of "There's Something About Mary" -- but they've flopped hard.

The universe of "Mary" was completely wacky and any naughty parts just
fit into that universe. This one feels like there were too many
screenwriters tinkering with it. (5 are listed). Someone wrote a
mainstream romantic comedy script -- then someone else (The Brothers,
I'm guessing) came along and just stuck in gross shocking bits.

It's very uneven. It loses steam in the third act. Has a very
unsatisfying and unpleasant ending. Carlos Mencia is obnoxious. Ben is
looking too old to be playing these parts. Meanwhile, the girls still
look 25.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a little surprised at how badly people are panning this movie; I
usually find IMDb ratings to be a good indicator. Many of the negative
comments seem to be based on the movie not conforming to the typical
'good guy always wins,' formula driven, oh-so predictable crap that
Hollywood tends to pump out. I see one reviewer here actually put "they
couldn't even deliver the clich√© ending" as if that is something to be
strived for. As for me, if I want a morality lesson I'll go to church.
If you're looking for a comedy to give you lessons on how to live your
life, you've got serious problems.

I'm still only giving the movie a seven because it's a comedy, it's not
like it was so moving that it changed my life or anything. As comedies
go, though, I found it pretty good. It's not one of those constant,
laugh a minute, slapstick comedies, but the parts that did make me
laugh literally made me laugh out loud, which is pretty rare for me.
All in all, this is one of the best comedies I have seen in years.
<|_=00=_|>
The Farrelly brothers have had a successful history, but their best
work was past them a long time ago. Dumb and Dumber and There's
Something About Mary are among the two funniest comedies of all-time,
and put the brothers at the peak of stardom. However, their track
record afterwards is a heavily mixed bag; you find your underrated gems
(Osmosis Jones, Fever Pitch) and then your disasters (Shallow Hal,
Stuck on You). The Heartbreak Kid is their attempt to reach back into
grade-A stardom like back in the late 90s. Joining with old friend Ben
Stiller, they attempt to successfully recreate an old Neil Simon story
about a man who has second thoughts about his marriage during his
honeymoon. What we get is a cruel, twisted, vulgar, outrageous, and
bittersweet movie that tramples over morality and messes around with
the typical romantic comedy formula. Unfortunately though, the cruelty
in this movie prevents it from being anywhere near romantic. While the
Farrelly brothers crafted their best work since Osmosis Jones, this is
still nowhere near as good as their comedies of the previous decade.

Heartbreak Kid is about Eddie (Ben Stiller), a lonely man who meets a
woman (Lila, played by Malin Akerman) during a random encounter, and
after a few weeks believes that she is the perfect woman for him.
However, right after the wedding, another side of his perfect woman is
revealed, and is slowly but surely becoming a nightmare come true.
Despite their honeymoon being in a beautiful portion of Mexico, the
honeymoon is a disaster as Eddie struggles to survive being with his
new wife. Worst of all, during the honeymoon he meets another woman,
Miranda (Michelle Monaghan), who seems to be absolutely perfect for
him. In this cruel script, nobody is the hero, and seemingly everybody
is the victim in some way or another. Nobody is safe in the movie;
which makes this story perfect for the Farrelly Brothers.

Ben Stiller seems to play the same kind of role multiple times, as he
has a similar presence to that of his character in There's Something
About Mary and Along Came Polly. The only difference is, he's a bit
more sinister and a much bigger jerk. His new wife is portrayed
perfectly by Malin Akerman, who isn't afraid of embarrassing herself or
showing off her body. Their physical humor together creates the biggest
laughs in the movie. The most desirable character by far comes from the
best performance; Michelle Monaghan of Mission Impossible fame delivers
this charming, sweet performance as the adorable and beautiful Miranda.
Everyone else did a decent job, with Jerry Stiller in a throwaway role
as Eddie's father and Carlos Mencia (surprisingly funny) as a manager
of the hotel in Mexico.

This movie's biggest flaw is its obvious attempts to re-create the
surprise vulgarity and bittersweet content of There's Something About
Mary. It worked back then, but it has trouble now, simply because the
characters are not as likable, and the movie lacks heart. In Dumb and
Dumber, you knew that they weren't meant to get that dream girl, but
their persistence and their kindness (hidden underneath their
stupidity) allows for the audience to root for them regardless. In
There's Something About Mary, the main character goes to great lengths
to find Mary and attempt to be with her; it became a raunchy and
bizarre hero's journey. In this movie, the main character selfishly
marries, and tramples over other people (emotionally mind you) in order
to find his actual soulmate; making him not a necessarily likable
character.

In spite of the lack of heart, you will find the laughs, no denying
that. The new wife from hell routine was spoiled far too much in the
previews, yet was still enjoyable. Unfortunately, once again,
misdirection keeps Heartbreak Kid from being funnier than it could have
been. After a while, Lila practically disappears from the movie,
focusing more on Eddie's budding romance with Miranda. The movie
mellows down once Lila is out of the way, and then we see a train wreck
waiting to happen for about half an hour. If you are a fan of There's
Something About Mary, there will be plenty to laugh about, but none of
the content is rich or deep; most of the funniest scenes happens to be
gross-out and shock humor. One unique thing in Heartbreak Kid is pretty
crappy special effects, which makes it worse for this kind of movie
because these kinds of movies do not use much special effects, if any
at all. Soundtrack also isn't as catchy or as fun as other Farrelly
Brothers movies, especially Dumb and Dumber.

Bottom Line: Heartbreak Kid is funny, but its not an instant classic,
nor is it a type of movie to take a date to. While it is not as
painfully disastrous as Good Luck Chuck, it still pales in comparison
to recent adult comedies and early Farrelly efforts. Ben Stiller still
provides the laughs through his physical humor and his ability to
perfectly portray a man mentally breaking down. However, this movie has
major morality issues and then really slows down once the romance
builds up, yet we aren't rooting for anybody because everyone is guilty
of lying, deceiving, and worse (except for one character). The
directors are somewhat on the right track back to their glory days, but
still have a longs way to go. They also really need to grow up and try
to fray away from the gross humor, something that Mike Myers suffers
from. Looking for laughs? Look no further. Looking for an amazing film?
Keep looking.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe how terrible this movie is. And the Oscar goes to "The
Heartbreak Kid" in the category of the worst remake of a film ever
made. Even without comparing it to the original, the movie fails
miserably in and of itself. I just got out of a showing of the film,
where there were some initial laughs, but by halfway through the movie,
there was basically dead silence in the theater for the rest of it.
This is expected to be funny: the crazy cousin hitting each of Ben
Stiller's legs with a baseball bat; Ben Stiller trying to pull a big
pain pill out of Lila's nose with her deviated septum; Lila apparently
smashing what she thought was Ben Stiller's member; a sideshow where a
donkey is apparently going to hump a young Mexican lady; Miranda's
cousins shoving a hot pepper up Ben Stiller's nose, Lila peeing on Ben
Stiller on the beach as he is screaming in agony because of a jellyfish
sting, endless hitting and bashing of Ben Stiller by practically
everyone including Lila in her sexual frenzy, and on and on. The movie
commits a bad crime for a comedy - the outrageous antics add up to
cringes, not laughs. 

For those of us that remember the quirky, extremely clever and funny
original, the comparison with this ugly, mean-spirited piece of dreck
is almost painful. Other than two of the character's names, and the
basic premise of a man falling in love with another woman on his
honeymoon, and a couple of the same lines and plot devices early on,
there is simply no resemblance. In the original, the only "bad guy" is
Lenny - and that's simply because he's devious and dishonest, even
though one can completely understand and identify with his predicament.
In the original version, one feels for each and everyone of the other
characters- Lila in her oblivious ignorance with her annoying (not
horrific-like in the current version) habits, Kelly (Lenny's love
interest--Miranda in the remake), selfish but coolly beautiful, Kelly's
over-protective parents - it adds up to a surprisingly perceptive movie
with regard to people's hopes and desires. And, Heck ---- it's just so
damn funny with truly great clever dialog, unlike the newer version. In
the new version, for some reason the same plot makes no sense, and one
could care less about any of the characters. 

When I first saw the trailer for this movie I laughed out loud. It
looked like this was going to be a hilarious movie. I had heard how the
characters were switched around - which made total sense in a remake,
not just simply to redo the original, but make a new version with its
own set of perceptions and laughs. BUT THEN, I read a review that said
that the trailer contained the only funny moments in the film. I
couldn't believe that. But now I do. Those few funny moments that are
in the trailer are all that there is to laugh at. Save your self 10
bucks and a couple of extra hours in the day - watch the trailer, have
a good laugh, and then rent or buy the original. A MUCH more satisfying
experience!
<|_=00=_|>
The Heartbreak Kid isn't right up there in the list of great comedies
starring Ben Stiller. It's a bit further down, nestled in amongst the
likes of Along Came Polly and Envy.

That's not to say it isn't a good film. As far as romcoms go, it's
alright. I think it's fair to say the first half trudges along quite
slowly but stick with it while the main characters are introduced and
the plot is founded because the second half is nicely paced with some
very funny moments as things start to conclude. The cliffhanger ending
is surprisingly delightful and watch for a final funny scene around
halfway through the end credits.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie could NOT have been worse. Not possible. My husband and I
watched.....oh I say over and hour before we just couldn't take it
anymore. We got up and left the theater. That bad. There was NO
character development AT ALL. Okay, enough where you knew their
names...but that's about it. I really don't think anything the poor
girl did was that bad. Okay, so she can't sing...um...ME NEITHER!!! And
she got a bad sunburn. I'm sure we all did at one point in our lives.
And her mom is big. Well, there's a a good reason to not love her.
Whatever. Oh and the whole comedy thing, no that didn't exist either. I
don't know, go and see it. But remember, I told you so. Have a nice
day!
<|_=00=_|>
How the mighty have fallen! The Farrely Brothers once upon a time were
the kings of comedy, with a string of hits under their belts and some
laugh out loud movies that included Dumb and Dumber and There's
Something About Mary, they were truly unstoppable. Then something
happened, they suddenly made flops, or at least disappointments. Stuck
On You in my mind is where this all began, uneven comedies that while
having some good moments were just so unmemorable it was unbelievable.
I never saw The Ringer, I didn't agree with the subject matter hence
why I didn't watch it, but I was actually really looking forward to The
Heartbreak Kid. The trailer made me laugh and it looked like a return
to Mary territory. I went into this movie expecting a short, light
hearted comedy with some hilarious moments. I came out bored to tears,
having only laughed a few times and feeling really cheated and also
very disappointed. The Heartbreak Kidis unfortunately a big flop and is
definitely the Brothers weakest movie to date in my mind. This wouldn't
bother me if everything about the movie was unbelievably awful, but the
most frustrating thing is that there are moments in this movie that are
genuinely brilliant. The storyline itself is great, the characters are
great, the tone is right, so where the hell did it go some damn wrong?
My guess is that studio interference has a large part to play. The
gross out Farrely humour just does not gel with the sweet romance story
at the centre of it all. Also the movie is way too long and the script
way too uneven for this to be a good movie. This may not be the worst
movie of the year in my eyes but its certainly one of the most
frustrating. Ben Stiller is great, Malin Akerman is superb, there are
scenes and ideas that are brilliant, the ending is pitch perfect, yet
everything else is just so poorly executed!

So lets start with the cast which admittedly is the most consistently
decent thing in the movie. Ben Stiller is on a return to form in this
movie, after a few cameos here and there and a phoned in performance in
Night in the Museum he finally seems at ease. In fact this is arguably
his best work in my eyes since Dodgeball, not hard when you see his
recent line of work. His natural easy going charm works in this movie
and makes a potentially unlikable character, and actually at times his
character remains very unlikable, just a bit more tolerable. A shame
then the script gives him little comedy to work with, that is until a
priceless psychotic breakdown over a Mexican band, which is one of the
few highlights of the movie. The true star of the movie however is
Malin Akerman as the psychotic Lila. Akerman seems to have a blast as
the mad, former junkie, in debt, clingy, neurotic wife from hell.
However I found something very strange while watching this movie, I
actually felt sorry for Lila for a lot of the film. Sure when she's
having sex and beating the hell out of her husband its hard to feel
sorry for her, but when Ben Stiller is cheating on her its kind of sad.
Whether or not this is intentional or not is debatable however.
Michelle Monaghan definitely drew the short straw of the group in a
role that is pretty pointless and just too unoriginal for me to give a
damn about.

The humour of the movie and the unevenness of pace is definitely where
the Heartbreak Kid literally breaks. The movie does start off quite
well, sure its not classic but its amusing. In fact the start of the
honeymoon is relatively funny, but then about the halfway mark the
movie just gives up all hope and dies. The jokes dry up, the romance
and sentimentality factor kick in and the eyes start to droop. Despite
some decent one liners the movie just doesn't make an effort any more.
You find yourself not caring anymore, you couldn't care if Eddie stays
with Lila or not, you just want the movie to end. And then the film
drones on and on and on. And then when you think you have an ending it
suddenly does something else. Thankfuly the unexpected ending lifts
things up slightly, but the standard beforehand is so low it doesn't
redeem the movie. In fact take out the brilliant Mexican band running
joke, the amusing sunburn bit, the few sex scenes and a couple of one
liners this would struggle its already low 5/10 rating.

The Heartbreak Kid is really a movie I cannot recommend as it is way
too disappointing. The cast do an admirable job with little material
and the idea is there. A better movie is probably underneath this
wretched turd somewhere, but unfortunately for now this movie remains
just another lame addition to the Farrely brothers already struggling
CV. The Farrely brother may have once been the kings of gross out
comedy, but in an age when we have Knocked Up and Superbad, maybe its
time they gave up and tried something else.
<|_=00=_|>
Good and fun movie. I generally like Farrelly movies. If you do, go see
this one. I just rented the DVD and had a lot of fun with it. The
extras on the DVD are also fun to watch. San Francisco as well as
Mexico look spectacular in this movie. The locations act as another
character and add a lot to the movie. The women in this movie are very
pretty and likable. Of course nobody should treat somebody like that -
but the title of the movie is "Heartbreak Kid", so I guess what else
can we expect. This movie is not "Mary", but I enjoyed it a lot. It has
some weaknesses. We don't really like or dislike some of the characters
- the script could have made clearer choices. We don't really root for
anybody (even though I wished, he stayed with his wife - she seemed
cute, nice enough and willing to change if he just had asked). Overall
a typical Farrelly movie, very creative, fun to watch but some
weaknesses to the script. Also many, many great performances by actors
in supporting roles.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked in expecting to see "the best Ben Stiller movie yet" and
walked out feeling gross and upset to have spent ANY money on a ticket
to have seen such crap. The beginning of the film was funny with
typical Farrelly/Stiller moments of awkward situations. Even though it
was much more crude than any of the previous films these collaboraters
have done, I was willing to give it the benefit of the doubt. However,
the laughs quickly stopped. This was severely disappointing. I
understand the Farrelly brothers are the masters of the "uncomfortable"
moment, but they cross the line with this movie, over and over again.
It was sleazy and an awful commentary on current views of marriage.
Yuck!!
<|_=00=_|>
I made the mistake of seeing this crap because I thought it was going
to be a hilarious escape movie. The reasons it was so bad are many and
other people have listed them here. But the main reason is that Ben
Stillers character was such a self-centered, unlikable jerk. He usually
plays a loser, but ultimately a likable loser that you want to root
for. Here he's a lying, misogynistic pig of a man who treats others
with complete disregard. I absolutely hated him. And the twist at the
end just makes you want to see him get tortured for being such an
a-hole. Horrible, horrible movie.

Please do yourself a favor and skip this one. Trust me, if you've seen
the previews you've seen the only mildly funny parts.
