
Greetings again from the darkness. What a unique film-going experience.
Having the opportunity to see two takes on the same subject matter
within a year or so is pretty rare in Hollywood. It happened most
recently with "Tombstone" and the vastly inferior "Wyatt Earp". Rarely
does it happen when both films are exceptionally well made and acted
... as is the case with last year's "Capote" and now, "Infamous".

First of all, you must understand that the films are actually based on
different books. "Infamous" is based on George Plimpton's book in which
he really tries to capture Truman Capote, the man and the genius.
Because of this, director Douglas McGrath ("Nicholas Nickleby" and
"Emma") utilizes some faux-interview segments, much like a "Biography"
segment on television. Of course, both films center around the process
of Capote researching and writing his masterpiece "In Cold Blood" based
on the brutal slaying of a Kansas family in their farmhouse. They both
also explore Capote's bizarre relationship with Perry Smith (played
brilliantly here by the next James Bond, Daniel Craig). The sexual
tension between the two is palpable, but we continue to question if
Capote is merely manipulating Smith for the story or if, in fact, there
is real substance to the attraction. We will never know if his reaction
on death row is heartbreak or guilt. The mystery adds to the power of
the story.

The cast in this film is nothing short of spectacular. From the opening
moments with Gwyneth Paltrow portraying the great Peggy Lee in a
melancholy stage moment to Sigourney Weaver, Hope Davis, Isabella
Rossellini and Juliet Stevenson doing the twist, the actresses are
terrific - as are their amazing costumes! In addition to Daniel Craig
as Perry Smith, Lee Pace (as Dick Hickcock), Jeff Daniels as the
sheriff and ("Last Picture Show" director) Peter Bogdanovich as Bennett
Cerf, the actors are also top notch.

Toby Jones as Truman Capote is much more flamboyant and colorful than
the amazing performance by Phillip Seymour Hoffman last year. Many will
try to compare, but what I say is, enjoy them both for their high level
of artistry! Now for something I never thought I would put in writing.
Sandra Bullock is extremely effective as Nelle Harper Lee (Capote's
muse and of course, the author of "To Kill a Mockingbird"). Bullock
usually flips her hair and bumbles all cutesy-like through her
performances, but not here. She plays Ms. Lee straightforward and
tough, just like the real thing. How wonderful.

Yes, the story is still heart-wrenching, but "Infamous" provides much
more levity, humor and color than the more somber "Capote". Both are
wonderful films with excellent casts. Enjoy them both as fine
film-making seems to be a rare commodity these days.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw "Capote" I was really impressed by the presentation of the
story and the quality of the acting. When I saw "Infamous" today, I was
caught up with the story in a way I had not been before. It was closer
to the experience when I read the book many,many years ago. "In Cold
Blood" is about killing human beings, and I believe that it is no more
right for cold blooded murders to do it than for me do do it as a
member of society that authorizes the death penalty. I believe that the
film as well as the book makes people think about this issue The cast
was superb, and I said the same about the earlier rendition, but this
time the characters were fully developed and believable under the
circumstances. I had been impressed before, but this film is different
from the last--it is more emotional, more detailed in rendition of the
characters, and more interested in showing not just the destruction of
Truman Capote, but in sharing the ideas that he expressed in "In Cold
Blood".

When I was growing up (I am 62 now) I recall that I did not like Capote
when I saw him on talk shows repeatedly. I really knew nothing of gay
culture or what even that meant at the time, so it had nothing to do
with the sexual orientation. It had to do with the ego that was
constantly expressed and realted to nothing that I really cared about.

But what was incredibly important to me then and now is that we can
lose track of the fact that we are all human beings, a point that was
stressed in the film. Killers may be killers, but they are us, in a
way, filled with some of the same ambitions, hates, emotions that most
of us can control. What separates us from them might not be very much,
so why do we need to kill them as they jailed their victims? It is easy
to kill, but not so easy to try to understand. This film hits an
emotional level that the previous film did not. I am pleased that it
ultimately was made. I am also pleased that the quality of the
performances, the writing and most especially the direction, were so
superb. Watch the scene where the farmer speaks only to Harper Lee and
not Capote. It is an incredible monologue, but the circumstances are
noted.
<|_=00=_|>
Writer-director Douglas McGrath's new film about Truman Capote and the
creation of his most famous book, "In Cold Blood," is full of
contradictions and contrasts when compared with its predecessor, the
2005 film "Capote," that covers the same five-year period. Perhaps this
is fitting. There may be some justice in the fact that these two filmic
accounts of how Capote researched material for his magnum opus disagree
significantly in emphasis and purported events.

After all, Capote used fictional methods to embellish - some might say
falsify - his journalistic reportage on the murders of the Clutter
family in Holcomb, Kansas, in 1959. If the screenplays for these two
films tell differing stories of Capote's experience, does it matter if
one is closer to the truth than the other? Or that we can't be sure -
indeed, will never know - what actually occurred during many of the
encounters between Capote, who was famous for fabricating yarns about
his own life, and others out in Holcomb so long ago? 

The films are each based on separate biographical accounts. "Capote"
was adapted from Gerald Clarke's 1988 biography bearing the same title.
"Infamous" is based on George Plimpton's 1997 book, "Truman Capote: In
Which Various Friends, Enemies, Acquaintances and Detractors Recall His
Turbulent Career," an account presented as a sequence of quotes from
interviews Plimpton conducted with more than 150 people who knew
Capote.

"Infamous" is far kinder to Capote than the earlier film, portraying
him as quite clearly enamored of the killer Perry Smith (an ardor fully
requited by Smith) and deeply anguished when Smith is executed.
"Capote" depicts the author as more conniving, manipulative and
disingenuous, willing to say or do anything to get Smith to spill his
story, and withholding of possible interventions he - Capote - might
have made to further delay or avert the executions of Smith and his
accomplice, Dick Hickock.

In "Capote" the author's erotic attraction to Smith is more muted,
hinted at, not acted upon. Indeed, "Infamous" is in general more
explicit and direct in its portrayals, often more graphic if you will,
than "Capote." Besides kisses and embraces between Capote and Smith,
other scenes not covered in "Capote" include moments of violence when
Smith virtually attacks Capote in his cell. We also witness the murders
of the Clutters and Hickock's execution by hanging, including the
protracted interval during which his body remains vertically suspended
until he is finally declared dead by the attending physician.

There are other differences, for example, Capote's bid to establish
rapport with the local Sheriff, Alvin Dewey, is depicted as much more
problematic in "Infamous" than in "Capote." A plus for "Infamous" is
its attention to Capote's relationships with a covey of New York
society women known as his "swans," their adulation of him, his ability
to coax them into sharing their secrets for his later use as gossip
fodder. But, again, McGrath employs a graphic style to introduce us to
these women, and several others in Capote's social circle, namely, the
use of large white name titles as we first meet each, documentary
style.

I find it impossible to resist comparing acting performances in the two
productions. The more nuanced, oblique style of "Capote" is realized
not only through its general avoidance of graphic scenes but in the
greater subtlety of the two central actors' performances. In
"Infamous," the English character actor Toby Jones physically resembles
Capote more than does his counterpart in "Capote," Philip Seymour
Hoffman. Both actors offer convincing personifications in voice and
style. But I lean toward Hoffman's as the more complex, accomplished
turn, characterized by critic Shawn Levy as "note-perfect." Levy goes
on, "The wheezy laugh, the pain of work, the prying nature, the cold
eye, the self-obsession, the ability to perform and ingratiate and
wheedle - it's Capote you're watching up thereÂ…" 

The brilliant English actor Daniel Craig gives a forceful, indeed
galvanizing, performance as the killer, Perry Smith. But I think his
mercurial, intensely melodramatic interpretation of his character is
less convincing than his counterpart in "Capote," Clifton Collins, Jr.
Collins's Smith is more introverted, by turns chilling or vulnerable to
be sure, but for the most part quietly opaque, subdued, soulfully
melancholic. For me this depiction is the more compelling and
believable.

Other key performances are well delivered in both films: Catherine
Keener ("Capote") and Sandra Bullock ("Infamous") as Harper Lee, though
I liked Ms. Bullock's turn better; Chris Cooper ("Capote") and Jeff
Daniels ("Infamous") as Sheriff Dewey. Capote's "swans" in "Infamous"
are delightfully played by Sigourney Weaver, Juliet Stevenson, Hope
Davis and Isabella Rossellini.

So we have two versions of the story of Capote's adventures in Kansas:
both strong films, well cast, worthwhile. I think "Capote" is the
better film because of its more subtle approach and the performances of
the two central actors. As for realism in the interpretation of Truman
Capote's character, perhaps the two portrayals taken together
triangulate on the "real" Capote, a complex, convoluted personality as
worthy of our sympathy as our contempt. My grades: 8/10 (high B+) (Seen
on 10/10/06)
<|_=00=_|>
Truman Capote may be unique among recent celebrities to have two
excellent films made about his life. Just a year after Phillip Seymour
Hoffman's mesmerizing performance in "Capote," Toby Jones does a fine,
if more expected, impersonation of the author of "In Cold Blood" and
"Breakfast at Tiffany's." With the razor sharp wit and effete
mannerisms more focused than they were in "Capote," Jones, in Douglas
McGrath's "Infamous," is a more vulnerable Truman and is unquestionably
in love with one of the Clutter family killers, Perry Smith. Although
ostensibly a drama, "Infamous" is replete with Capote's celebrated wit,
and the one-liners, which are often sexual in nature, are welcome
relief from the heavier scenes.

However, "Infamous" is at heart a love story, or rather two, love
stories. The first romance is between Truman Capote and his coterie of
largely female socialite friends, with whom he gossips and parties and
self adulates. The second, much deeper love story, between Capote and
Smith, begins as Capote explores Smith's background and family history.
Although their relationship, which the film implies was more than
platonic, develops within the confines of prison, the two men connect
through similar personal tragedies in their childhoods. Smith, well
played by Daniel Craig, was at least bisexual or even gay, according to
McGrath's screenplay. Although a subliminal connection between the two
killers was suggested in both the films "In Cold Blood" and "Capote,"
in this film Dick Hickock, Smith's partner in the Clutter killings,
recognizes Perry's orientation and taunts him with it.

Although a bevy of well-known performers threatens to undercut the
realism of the drama with a game of "isn't that so and so?," the acting
rises above star cameos and blends seamlessly into the whole. In fact,
the familiar faces aid in maintaining recognition of the parade of
celebrities, such as Babs Paley, Gore Vidal, and Harper Lee that
surrounded Capote in life. Borrowing a technique from Warren Beatty's
"Reds," McGrath effectively uses witnesses that talk to the camera
about Truman as though being interviewed at some later date.
Surprisingly, these interview segments do not interrupt the flow of the
drama and enhance rather than detract from the film's power.

And powerful it is. Although the execution scenes have been filmed
twice before, Truman's parting from the killers and the actual hangings
remain almost unbearable to watch. Although two films have preceded
this one and related essentially the same story, "Infamous" stands as a
worthy addition to what is now a trilogy on the Clutter family murders
(1967's "In Cold Blood," 2005's "Capote," 2006's "Infamous").
Surprisingly, each film is equally engrossing and brings its own
viewpoint to the story. Like different facets of a prism or a
three-film version of "Rashomon," the tale of Truman Capote's reportage
of the murders retains its fascination and the enigma of Capote's
relationship with the killers. Rarely have three such powerful,
outstanding films been made from the same subject matter.
<|_=00=_|>
Infamous is by far the better movie about Truman Capote. I saw this
film in Venice where the audience gave it a 15 minute standing ovation.
There is a lot that is brilliant about this film. The cast is perfect.
This film shows us more characters than the previous movie and each is
played beautifully by a highly competent actor. INFAMOUS is one of the
most effective and unique films I have seen in a long time. It treats
its' subject with humor but also with emotional depth. I was moved by
Truman's journey. His relationship with Perry Smith is complex and
heartbreaking. Daniel Craig rides a thin line between sympathetic and
dangerous. He is a truly gifted artist. Doug McGrath's film-making is
brave and true to itself in every way. Toby Jones is the perfect
Truman. I was unfamiliar with him as an actor and totally surprised by
his amazing, seamless performance. I'm telling you, Toby Jones is Oscar
material.
<|_=00=_|>
It could be a work of fiction. Just like the factual novel of Truman
Capote. For maximum enjoyment one should forget last years "Capote".
Like so many other things in modern pop culture the same stories can be
told countless times, the versions vary but at its center there is a
truth that its stranger than fiction. Truman Capote is like an alien
visiting our planet, his intellect allows him to see beyond our
limitations and his need to belong to be accepted transforms him into
one of the greatest manipulators of all time. Toby Jones is
extraordinary. There is no performance other that Capote's own daily
performance to charm and seduce everyone who has anything he needs. He
seems him quiver when his rapport with Perry King takes unexpected
erotic turns. There is real sexual tension in their scenes together. I
believed it, Perry King I mean, I believe that he felt compelled and
attracted by this tiny,famous,alien celebrity. Daniel Craig is superb
and his character has the power to get under our skin without betraying
the brutal side of his nature. What Capote felt is another story. He
lies so blatantly, so beautifully that it's impossible to tell, maybe
even Capote himself couldn't tell. Doug McGrath's version of the events
is funnier, more entertaining and certainly more theatrical that last
year's version that I've advised you to forget - The advise is
heartfelt but difficult to put into practice - Sandra Bullock, Juliet
Stevenson, Sigourney Weaver and Isabella Rossellini contribute to the
fun and to the theatrical feel of "Infamous" If you're a sucker for pop
culture and who isn't? Run to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Forget Capote! This film blows Bennett Miller's version out of the
water. Not to take anything away from the Hoffman performance, but Toby
Jones is incredible as the late Truman Capote making me understand his
pain and love and guilt for Perry Smith and his demise. This was all
accomplished from a legitimately real place, not some
"pull-my-heartstrings-Ron-Howard- music-swells" sort of way. The scene
after he returns from his liason with Perry and the shift of emotions
we see in Jones' face is reminiscent of Diane Lane's "train sequence"
in Unfaithful. Incredible. And Sandra Bullock...where have you been
hiding? Please Academy, do not be afraid to honor this film so close to
its predecessor.
<|_=00=_|>
"There will be time to murder and create." T.S. Eliot's Prufrock 

Truman Capote described murderer Perry Smith as between the "tender and
the terrible." Such may be said about writer/director Douglas McGrath's
superior Infamous, a tale of Truman Capote's (Toby Jones) love affair
with his innovative novelization, In Cold Blood, and its
protagonist,Perry Smith (Daniel Graig). The tender is Capote's love of
his female friends, especially Harper Lee (Sandra Bullock) and Smith
(DanielCraig), and the terrible slaughter of the Kansas farm family in
1959 by Smith and friend Dick Hickock (Lee Pace).

Inevitable as accusing Toby Jones of only imitating Capote is the
comparison with Philip Seymour Hoffman's Oscar performance of the
titular author in Capote (1955). Jones's turn is more complex than
Hoffman's, alternating between Capote's imaginative connection with the
crime and his growing respect, even love, for Smith. In fact, the
well-known love between the men is avoided in Capote but highlighted in
Infamous.

I was hooked in the first sequence, when Gwyneth Paltrow as Peggy Lee
sings "What is this thing called love?" and breaks down in apparent
awareness of her own losses. The song, perfect for the themes of the
film, and the film's score carry a melancholy with them that McGrath
captures in Tru's constantly frustrated search for truth and love and
Lee's inability to pen another novel after her Pulitzer-Prize-winning
To Kill a Mockingbird. For that matter, Capote never completes a
significant piece after that himself.

Last year's Capote seemed centered on the conflict in Truman over
whether or not he was exploiting Smith to get a story and then never
fully engaging a campaign to free them. This year's Infamous (a poor
title regardless of it double artistic appropriateness) is more
interested in Truman's struggle to write a new kind of fiction
(docudrama) and his true affection for Smith. Infamous fleshes out the
story and the fabulous artist whose "Breakfast at Tiffany's" and "In
Cold Blood" are cultural staples of 20th century life.
<|_=00=_|>
Infamous has a difficult comparison with the earlier "Capote." Still it
is a different view of the same story and characters and is written
with more emphasis on the perspectives of those who knew, or thought
they knew, Capote. Toby Jones may not fully match the nuanced
performance of Philip Seymour Hoffman but he does, possibly, a better
imitation of Capote. Infamous has a better known cast of supporting
players and they do a creditable job. Sandra Bullock's Harper Lee isn't
the quite same as that portrayed so well by Catherine Keener in
"Capote" but her character blends perfectly with the tone of
"Infamous." Daniel Craig adds another fine acting turn as the "In Cold
Blood" killer who receives the most attention. Even Gwyneth Paltrow
makes an excellent impression in a brief opening scene as, apparently,
singer Peggy Lee. (In the showing I saw, she was introduced as "Kitty
Dean???") I wondered why another version of this story was filmed and
it may not do well after the success of "Capote" but I was surprisingly
entertained and intrigued by this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie at the Venice Film Festival. I pretty liked it.
It's not a masterpiece and sometimes it's hard to not compare with the
other "Capote" movie. This one, anyhow, is funnier than the other one
and some director's choices are interesting. The cast is terrific (from
Toby Jones to a surprising Sandra Bullock, to the enjoyable female
supportings to Lee Pace and Daniel Craig) and the technical credits are
more than stellar. The screenplay sometimes is a little clichÃ©d but
nothing disturbing. The 5-minute cheeres at the end of the screening
(with Bullock, Jones, McGrath, Toniolo among others in attendance)
proves I was not the only one who liked it.
