
"The Treatment" is a very well acted romantic comedy that relies on
clever dialogue rather than outlandish set-pieces to deliver the
laughs. 

The story is simple enough - Teacher Jake befriends the young widowed
mother of a student and then falls for her. Things are complicated by
their different social standings, the fact that Allegra is still
grieving for her recently dead husband, and Jake's visits to his
psychoanalyst.

The lead actors are all excellent, but Ian Holm's character gets all
the best lines in the movie as a nasty psychoanalyst trying to 'help'
Jake Singer (Chris Eigeman) stop undermining his own relationships.

Famke Janssen is very, very good in this movie and her performance was
my favourite of the piece. Considering the other works I've seen her in
I was blown away to discover she was such a good actress.

This is a warm, funny movie that I could happily watch again.
<|_=00=_|>
Each to his own, but I'm really surprised at the review above.

I also saw this in Edinburgh (it's where I live, and incidentally the
Edinburgh Film Festival was the best ever this year for me).

The film I saw was cute, funny and unpredictable. There are some lovely
unexpected moments. Without giving too much away... it's a relief to
see a script dispense with the old "lie piled upon lie" cliché and
instead have characters who decide to live up to their
responsibilities. If you thought you would never get to see a New York
intellectuals film in which grown-ups behave like grown-ups for once -
well, here's your chance.

There are also some great lines. It's impossible not to smile at Ian
Holm's vaguely monomaniacal therapist intoning, in his Argentinian
accent, "once you start driving ass-backward through life, it can be
very hard to stop. And you realise too late that the major decisions in
your life are lying in the road like so many crushed squirrels." This
is possibly my favourite therapist quote since Ingrid Bergman was told
in Spellbound to have "sweet dreams - and tomorrow we will analyse them
over breakfast." Ian Holm makes the part work perfectly because he
doesn't overdo it.

You end up feeling affection for both the therapist and his client,
even though they are at odds. This is one of the film's best qualities.
Secondary characters get a chance to develop, so for instance the
father is not just an old tartar and the mother-in-law not just a
disapproving snoop. What's most evident in this film is the writer's
sympathy for almost every character, so that whether or not they are
redeemed, you find yourself seeing their point of view, if just in
momentary flashes. I loved this.

Meanwhile, Famke Janssen gets a rare chance to act, and lives up to it.

The sweet thing about this film is that it isn't slavishly Woody Allen,
or pointedly anti-Woody Allen either. It plays as if Woody Allen never
existed. This means that there are no weary inevitabilities. Anything
might happen (and frequently doesn't, because something else intriguing
happens instead).

It doesn't all work, but I've only got minor gripes. Overall, it could
have done with being just a little longer, to make some of the
secondary relationships more convincing. But erring on the side of
keeping it short was probably the smarter mistake to make.

If you get a chance to see this, go. Decide for yourself which review
gets it right.
<|_=00=_|>
It involves romance between romantically experienced people. They are
intelligent, articulated, educated and their greatest concerns are more
complex than just "getting together". They are above 35, they have
children and past baggage, complicated lives and still they crave love,
like any other primate.

Ian Holm is the spice of the movie. I would venture to say that without
him the entire thing would have been a fiasco. It's not that the other
actors don't act well, but their roles are so bland and uninteresting.
Even the obvious intelligence of the lead male character has only an
intellectual academic form and the emotional chemistry is rather poorly
expressed.

Overall it is above the average romcom, but average towards weak in its
category. Since the target audience is older educated people, it should
have had more spunk and a lot more brains.
<|_=00=_|>
I grabbed this off the shelf without much thought but was generally
pleased with it as a selection. It is the story of a single Manhattan
high school teacher who is in psychotherapy. The film makes good use of
fantasy by startling us with 

imaginary interventions by his extraordinarily aggressive and ribald
therapist at dramatic junctures during his day. 

While the leading character, Jake, has experienced a romantic
disappointment in an earlier relationship, the main thrust of his
therapy seems directed at a battle against mediocrity. Apparently, a

career as a high school teacher does not count as success. Apparently
also, the elderly therapist considers a year without sex a major red
flag. Apart from these shortcomings, Jake seems to conduct himself
cautiously but extremely well, leaving me wondering about the
correctness of his mediocrity.

This film does a good job of representing older people, for example the
therapist and Jake's father, as well as others, as something else
besides useless. Here they are accepted enough to assert themselves,
their intelligence is respected and occasionally heeded.

The plot held my attention through its twists and turns. Two points I
felt were a lapse into hackneyed stereotypes involved the feminism of
his lover, Allegra. To begin with, she initiates the first sex (even
though things seemed to be proceeding along nicely) and routinely
assumes the aggressive role after that as well. I questioned whether
this would really be cool in real life. I suppose this could be taken
as the otherwise lacking evidence of his neurosis by accepting it
except that it is all her actions.

Secondly, after they have had frequent and mutually gratifying sex, get
along great, he well on his way to being accepted by her two children,
and to cap it all off she is about to lose custody of her young
daughter because the adoption stipulated a two-parent household-- with
all this in play she rejects his heartfelt proposal of marriage because
she is 'not ready' just a year after becoming a widow. These two facts
might suggest that she, a rich woman, was using him as a convenience.
However, the rest of her character as portrayed does not support that
at all. Instead the flick is merely waving a PC flag of liberated
woman-- even when it is absurd-- to garner brownie points. 

Ultimately however, all such complexity of living is suddenly swept
away in a traditional happily-ever-after romantic ending--but one so
hasty that I definitely felt they were running out of film. I don't
want to sound like I would entirely re-engineer the film, but I
definitely felt it was going somewhere else. 

But these are lapses in authenticity in a film notable for
authenticity. It is an engaging and often quite funny flick.
<|_=00=_|>
THE TREATMENT (2007) *** Chris Eigeman, Famke Janssen, Ian Holm,
Stephanie March, Stephan Lang, Blair Brown, Harris Yulin, Roger Rees.
(Dir: Oren Rudavsky)

Analyze This!: Literate rom-dramedy with stand out work by Eigeman &
Janssen.

Jake Singer (Eigeman), a New York City prep school literature
instructor, is in a state of flux. After a bad break-up (is there any
other kind?) he runs into his ex, Julia (March of NBC's "Law & Order
SVU") and opens his fresh wounds to the fact she has moved on and
gotten engaged. Awkwardly he accepts her invite to an engagement
dinner. This adds fuel to his fire with his visit to his
passive/aggressive Argentina émigré analyst Dr. Morales (Holm), whose
demeanor suggests his patient is only to blame for all his
shortcomings.

While Jake stews with his domestic dilemma he's busy juggling an
extracurricular activity as the school basketball team's statistician
who has been attempting to mentor one of the temperamental players, a
good kid who is struggling with his skills and the brow- beating by
their jerk coach (Lang), who tells Jake to butt out of his methods. On
top of that he is jockeying for a summer sabbatical to London for the
school by making good with the headmaster (Rees) at a get-together
dinner held at a trustees' widow's home.

The recent widow, Allegra Marshall (the gorgeous Janssen, best known as
Jane Grey from the "X-MEN" film franchise, in one of her best
performances to date), is also in a state of flux dealing with her
grief at the loss of her husband, the victim of a sudden heart attack,
leaving her to care for their young, impressionable son and a toddler
they were in line for adopting (she has failed to report his death to
the agency negotiating the legalities).

Jake is smitten with the hostess  at first unknowing she is a widow 
and begins to take interest in her and her family. Before he knows it
he is hooking up with her and when she makes her confession he is at
first shocked  and then relieved  since all his flirting has paid
off. Naturally he is scolded by Morales.

The couple gingerly eke out their newfound relationship but soon find
an awkward bump when the adoption agent (Blair) makes an unexpected
visit to see the welfare of the progress of the bonding between the
child and the impeding parents-to-be. 

Based on a novel by Daniel Menaker, Daniel Saul Housman's screenplay is
literate and charming but problematic only when it uses the narrative
device of the therapist to act as a surrogate conscience to Jake,
popping in here and there as an unseen noodge. Rudavsky, a documentary
filmmaker making his first foray as a feature film director, stumbles a
little bit in some flatfooted staging, but is acquitted by the fine
acting by his leads.

Eigeman, best known for his brainy, WASPy turns in Wilt Stillman and
Noah Baumbach films (and if they ever did a live-action adaptation of
the ARCHIE comics would be a top choice as Reggie!) , comes across as a
latter- day Charles Grodin, a sardonic scold whose witty banter and
cosmopolitan airs belie his insecurities, does a fine job imbuing the
uncertainties and neuroses of his character that has shades of a Woody
Allen manqué, but he also has some good nuanced choices in his
phrasings and facial expressions underscoring the dialogue given.

Janssen proves to be a fine counterpoint, a glammed-down statuesque gal
out of his league, but not entirely unlikely soul mate. She is an
underused and underrated actress; this proves she can do so much with
so little.

An indie sleeper that should be sought out for those who like their
rom-dramedies with wit and sex appeal.
<|_=00=_|>
Commitment-phobic characters are a dime a dozen in romantic comedies.
Yet, no one can deny that they serve a valid function - for without all
the tension they bring to the story, how would writers ever get us to
that inevitable happy ending? In "The Treatment," which director Oren
Rudavsky co-adapted (with Daniel Saul Housman) from the novel by Daniel
Menaker, Jake Singer is an English teacher at a Manhattan prep school
who falls in love with a wealthy widow whose son is a pupil there. The
problem is that Jake, like many men of his generation, seems utterly
paralyzed when it comes to taking the full-on plunge into commitment
and marriage. In an attempt to overcome this weakness, he regularly
sees a shrink who is clearly an advocate of the no-nonsense, "tough
love" school of psychotherapy, and who keeps insisting that Jake stop
whining and making excuses for himself and simply get with the program.

On the surface, "The Treatment" doesn't appear to be much different
from dozens of other romantic comedies that have come our way over the
years, but the scenario plays out with so much charm and wit that it
makes the situation itself seem new and fresh. We really get caught up
in the lives of these characters, mainly because the filmmakers go to
great lengths to avoid the superficialities and clichés that render so
many romantic comedies phony and unreal. The film is helped
immeasurably in this regard by the superb performances by Chris Eigeman
and Famke Janssen who have an amazing chemistry on screen and, thus,
are able to convince us that these two quite different people could
indeed be genuinely drawn to one another. Ian Holm steals every scene
he's in as the hilariously deadpan therapist who isn't afraid to say
what he thinks, even at those times when he's only appearing as a
figment of Jake's guilt-ridden imagination. Harris Yulin is also
wonderful as Jake's pragmatic father who still harbors resentment
towards his son for not following in his footsteps and becoming a
doctor.

Given its low budget, the movie may be a trifle rough around the edges
at times, but that lack of polish actually turns out to be a key
ingredient in the movie's overall success. For once, a romantic comedy
that actually works.
<|_=00=_|>
the trailers for "The Treatment" were kinda crappy but the movie is
something else entirely this is a movie that is much better than its
trailer suggest it's Light hearted and funny with a lot of substance it
isn't at all cheesy or dark . the acting is truly amazing we have three
unmatchable leading actors Chris Eigeman ,Ian Holm and Famke Janssen
all three give some of their best work here..the movie is smart and
funny and the ending leaves the Dr Morales bit open is he real or just
a figment of Chris Eigeman's imagination? watch this one in theatres
fans of any Famke , Ian and Chris will not be disappointed no matter
how high their expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
The Treatment describes itself as 'a serious romantic comedy about life
and love in NYC.' The main characters are Jake Singer, an anxious young
schoolteacher who has broken up with his girlfriend and seems resigned
to a life of mediocrity; his shrink, Dr Ernesto Morales (Ian Holm), who
describes himself as the last great Freudian - 'in a line stretching
from Moses to Aristotle;' and Allegra Marshall, a beautiful young
socialite that takes a fancy to him.

The film aims at a serious note with the unrelenting, intrusive and
almost sadistic treatment meted out by Dr Morales. Jake's baggage is
all too obvious and (although there must be easier routes) the
'treatment' does show signs of working, even when Jake starts wondering
if he has maybe just 'hallucinated' the encounters. A sub-plot about
adoption tries to bring in some emotional ballast to fill the chasm
left by Jake and Allegra's lack of on-screen chemistry.

The Treatment meanders along like an episode of Sex and the City or
Frasier - only where nothing much happens. At first captivating, the
endless litany of inconsequential detail and forced humour soon begins
to wear. "I thought he was supposed to make you feel more comfortable
in your own skin," says Allegra about Jake's analyst. "No, he's more
the exfoliating type." In discussing one of Jake's favourite books,
Allegra quotes a comment about the author re-drawing the landscape to
place equal emphasis on what's not said. Sadly, this film has too much
that is said; and that which is not said has too little substance to
justify the barely relevant meanderings of school sports halls or Dr
Morales' questions about sexual positions. Ian Holm delivers a fine
performance, but the script, while not completely without merit, has
too little to for such a great actor to get his teeth into. We are told
that the lover in Jake is under-nourished and the self-pitying side
over-fed: much the same could be said of this bloated, drawn-out and
not particularly engaging film.
<|_=00=_|>
Somewhere between adaptation and shooting, the magic leaped out of this
film. The synopsis looked promising and it could have delivered, but it
seems that poor casting choices and spotty dialog made it fall short.
The leading man isn't quite convincing on film. His technique feels
more fit for stage, but when on screen you see an actor and not a
character. Famke Janssen and Ian Holm are the two bright spots in the
nigh hour-and-a-half feature. Holm was the one actor who garnered a
laugh. But they both seem out of place, heavy hitters in a smaller
film. It could be that a bigger star was set to play Chris, but dropped
out, leaving the film with less studio support while Famke and Ian
stayed on. This film has gone on to win some festival awards, which
makes me wonder if I missed something, or was simply not in the right
mood for the film. Nevertheless, it could have been much, much better.
