
First off, let me start by saying that I have never been bothered to
write a review on IMDb. Although a fan of the site, I skim read
reviews, often not having the patience to read the long essays that
over-excited people write. However, I feel it is my obligation to
express my opinion on this movie because it is one of a short list of
movies that has made an impact on me emotionally. 

I honestly believe that Christian Bale's performance in this movie was
truly outstanding. If Denzel Washington can be rewarded for best actor
in Training Day then Bale deserves his just rewards for Harsh Times.
His portrayal of Jim David, an ex-army ranger, is coated in layers of
emotional complexity and psychological deterioration. His ability to
transform from an honourable, courteous officer to a full blown psycho
and then back to loving boyfriend and 'amigo' is truly terrifying. 

Sharing much screen time with Bale is a relatively unknown Freddy
Rodriquez. He seems to feed off Bale's character and forces the
audience to feel sympathy for him as a childhood friend who can't
abandon his crazy best friend. A cross between Benny Blanco (Carlito's
Way) and Ethan Hawke's character in Training Day, Rodriquez shows his
ability in mixing comedic moments up with emotional intensity and
apathy. His friendship with Bale is so unpredictable that as an
audience, you find yourself laughing with them at one moment and the
next on the verge of tears. 

David Ayer has created a dark, moody portrayal of South Central Los
Angeles, very similar to that of Training Day. It's a bleak, bustling
environment where the main characters encounter drug dealers, gang
leaders, prostitutes etc. What I found interesting was the way Ayer
introduced the beautiful barren Mexican landscape amongst the roughness
of LA life. This was to show the personal crossroads Bale's character
experiences. The choice whether to stay in Mexico and marry his
girlfriend, or to satisfy his sadistic urge to kill and work for the
drugs squad in Columbia.

It's frustrating that Harsh Times will not get the box office
recognition it deserves. However, through word of mouth and DVD
release, I am certain that this will become a sleeper classic, in the
style of Shawshank Redemption. I feel that Christian Bale's performance
is as mesmerising as De Niro's Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver or Edward
Norton's character in American History X. His raw approach to the role
makes for a startling but very rewarding experience.

Overall Verdict: A tour de force of a movie with fantastic
performances, stylish direction and an after-taste which will stay with
you for a very long time. Not since American History X has a movie
affected me on such an emotional level. Christian Bale deserves more
credit. Much more.....

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see the movie last night without knowing what it was about. To
say that I enjoyed the movie from start to finish would be an
understatement! I thought Christian Bale was absolutely fantastic, his
depiction of an ex soldier trying to get back to "normal" ie get a job,
have a relationship, while slowly (or maybe not so slowly!)slipping
into mayhem & madness was Oscar winning material. He was at war with
himself on a downward spiral and bringing any semblance of normality
with him. I know I certainly felt I was grabbed by the throat and
brought along for the ride. It's not often a movie is so scary and so
sad at the same time. I loved it!
<|_=00=_|>
Harsh Times is an intense film. Keeping you on the edge of finding out
how crazy events can become seems to be a staple in the writing of
David Ayer. He penned the script for the gritty cop drama Training Day
and saw its star, Denzel Washington, win an Oscar for his portrayal of
the conflicted beast at its core. With his new film, and directorial
debut, Ayer has crafted another street drama about people who
themselves don't know whether they are the good guys, the bad guys, or
both. Don't be surprised if his work soon creates a second starring
Academy Award, as Christian Bale is a powerhouse. The raw acting
talents of this Brit are unfathomable and thankfully his rejuvenation
of Batman has finally allowed those chops to be shown on screen in
challenging roles for the masses.

Crossing between being the soldier/sir, yes sir type of man with the
gangbanger of his past could be a difficult thing to believe for a
viewer. Bale deftly changes personas as if he was flipping a switch.
His ability to go from crazed lunatic to apologetic, tear-filled and
beaten man is amazing to watch. Having a great up-and-coming actor to
play off of is a plus as Freddy Rodriguez shines in much the same way
Ethan Hawke did in Training DayÂ—playing the straight man whose life is
finally on the up and up before his love for a friend drags him back
down. The rapport between them is believable and effective in showing
us what could be. One of their friends, played nicely by Chaka Forman,
gets it right when he says how Bale's Jim used to be so mellow. His
fits of rage and confusion come upon him with no warning, showing us
what war did to him. Being in the trenches created a man without a
moral code, one who needs to not think, but just do. If one's capacity
to kill was always there, he/she could probably live their lives being
able to turn it off when needed. However, if you were not wired that
way to begin with, the stark contrast could fry their mind into not
knowing what it should do. Harsh Times shows us that fall into delusion
and self-loathing to the point where thinking doesn't factor in at all,
action becomes reflex and reflex becomes life. Unfortunately society is
not of the shoot first variety like that of a warzone.

Ayer has done himself well with this directorial effort. He gets great
performances throughout and in multiple languages. Even Eva Longoria
was adequate and not a blemish on the film as I initially felt she
might be. Ayer shows us all facets of his characters helping to enhance
the story. We are privy to the past history of all involved and are
allowed to understand each person's motives. Seeing the paradise that
Bale has in Mexico adds immensely to the conflict going on inside of
him as well. The performance by Tammy Trull is paramount to this fact
and her undivided love for her broken man is beautifully expressed.
This relationship makes his actions that much more powerfully
unfathomable. We have monsters among us in this world and while they
can be utilized as a necessity for the survival of our culture,
hopefully when their jobs are done they can be helped to assimilate
back into society without their ambivalence being able to hurt the ones
they love.
<|_=00=_|>
An intense film, that FEELS a lot like Training Day, but with more of a
gritty approach, and with actors who seem actually believable... which
makes sense since it's based on the real life experiences of the
director/writer and people he knows.

Rodriguez (who was at the World Premiere) and Bale give stellar
performances. Rodriguez, if this film is well distributed, will get
huge exposure and will likely go far. His performance was incredible,
believable, and emotional. Bale continues to show that he's one of the
best in Hollywood. Sure, he's playing a slightly psychotic, mentally
unstable fellow, similar to a number of previous roles he's played, but
he does it so well.

Ayer has improved as a writer, and considering this is his feature film
debut as a director, he did fantastically. His knowledge as a director
shone through in the Q&A after the film. He also made sure to mention
the Cannes labs, where he worked on the script for this film, and how
it helped him improve as a writer.

Go see it. It's intense, well written, incredibly performed, and is a
thinker of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Harsh Times knowing little about it aside from that
Christian Bale was in it.

It's hard to go into detail without spoiling the plot, but it's an
excellent story of two friends down on their luck, one of them an
ex-soldier with some serious post-traumatic stress syndrome.

All the acting is top-notch, and knowing people very similar to the
ones in the movie, I would say that it is spot-on, which is a very hard
thing for any actor to nail.

A lot of the time when you watch a movie with Brad Pitt in it, you're
just watching Brad Pitt be Brad Pitt. As cool as he is, this tends to
spoil the movie and any suspense of disbelief.

I've seen a lot of Christian Bale movies, and even so, I forgot that it
was Christian Bale throughout most of the entire movie. That is an
incredibly impressive thing indeed.

The movie may not get an Oscar, but it is done superbly well, and
Christian Bale is quite possibly the next Anthony Hopkins.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm glad i haven't seen training day or i'd feel compelled to compare.
This film feels real, and the director really makes you feel like you
are actually IN the film, in the situation with the characters. You
feel part of their lives and start feeling FOR them. Freddy Rodriguez
plays a kinda good guy with a weak will and gets roped into anything
Jim(Bale) gets him into. His relationship with Eva longoria is
something people can identify with. Christian Bale is mind blowing from
the moment the film begins (pun intended) he is very believable as Jim
and is one crazy SOB in this film, he pulls off the dialogue, attitude
and body language really well, You just couldn't tell he was a Brit,
let alone welsh. his acting prowess is impeccable. Miles away from the
Bruce Wayne he played recently.

All in all, its a good film, i won't give away the story, though its
nothing extraordinary but it gives us the feel of how life is in crime
ridden cities where people fight for survival every single day.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty good movie. It's really intense and disturbing. The
pairing of Freddy Rodreiguez and Christian Bale definitely covers the
wide range of emotions that the duo go through during the film. I won't
be too specific, but Bale really pulls off a haunting portrayal of a
guy who is really messed up, but never fails when he needs to expose
what little shred of humanity that still remains. Rodreiguez plays
opposite Bale and plays well off of him and vice versa. Eva Longoria
makes an appearance in this film and that's always something to look
forward to. I recommend this movie, but it isn't for the squeamish.
It's a lot like Training Day, (also written by director David Ayer) and
I'll go as far as to say that it's actually better.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot in this film is somewhat like an aircraft that spends a
puzzlingly long time taxiing along the runway before it finally gets
airborne. Even then, it is not until the final part that the joystick
is forcefully pulled back, and with a great whoosh we are up for some
very showy loop-the-loops and victory rolls. HARSH TIMES is both
sophisticated and ambitious, with intriguing character development.
Despite the slow start that had me, an avid fan of Christian Bale,
shifting uncomfortably in my seat, it is never the less witty,
ingenious, and a pleasure to watch. Christian Bale undoubtedly stole
the show.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw Harsh Times today, mostly because Bale is gorge! and was blown
away. Just one problem, and that is the way Freddy and Christians
characters talk: "Wassup dawg/dude/homie", it's grating and annoying.
There are some truly shocking, out of the blue moments, and not once is
this movie clichÃ©d or predictable. I was disappointed that there were
only 20 people at the most in the cinema, especially as it's the first
day. The way the ending is shot is very impressive and moving, and
stayed with me for ages afterwards. There is a lot of unnecessary
swearing, but I suppose that is the way Jim and Mike would speak. Also,
Jim is supposed to be 26 but looks a lot older. I was so impressed and
can't wait for the DVD, although I won't be surprised the second time
round. I recommend Harsh Times very highly; it is emotional, violent,
realistic, hilarious, thought provoking, traumatic, inspired,
entertaining, gripping, original and shocking.
<|_=00=_|>
Christian Bale is an actor who is never orthodox. His string of films
have in general been breaking moulds and testing his own ability, and
more often than not you leave the cinema thinking that you had seen
something special.

Having revived the Batman series and out-Lynched David Lynch in "The
Machinist", he has now tackled the troubled life of a war veteran who
is trying to find a job in order to be able to settle down so he can
marry and bring over his wife from Mexico. Alongside him is his best
friend who is also in the same situation of finding a job but this time
in order to satisfy his frustrated working wife. As always nothing goes
as easily to plan.

The two lead actors end up struggling through job rejections, life,
gangs, drugs and drinks, and also the struggle to move on from their
carefree lifestyle when they were young. Responsibility is a difficult
option for the pair of them. The problem is exacerbated by Christian
Bale's character's flashbacks and hauntings to the war, which add a
frightening and unstable edge to his character.

The film overall takes us on an unpredictable journey following the two
men questioning ourselves what we would do if we were in their shoes,
and watching the pair of them acting and opting for what they do can be
unsettling. Acting is great, direction is interesting and you will not
be disappointed. If you like Crash, then in some ways this is in the
same vein but not alike to the movie. I thoroughly was interested and
enjoyed this movie, and if you want a thought-provoking film then this
is definitely for you.
