
Wow - this is a surprise. Watch it because it's proof that a lot of
IMDBers are really full of crap pawns that care more about peoples'
opinions of their opinions than they do about whether or not the movie
is actually any good. Stupid sheep. This was very emotional, GREAT
characterization, awesome photography, and extremely convincing
dialogues. I'm from the ATL, trust me this is pretty accurate. This
flick really does a fabulous job portraying what some folks struggle
with overcoming stereotypes, growing up, and finding their place in
their world. If you appreciate an honest review then go see this sucker
- otherwise you probably didn't even read this far.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from an advance screening of ATL--the movie that cannot
be marketed as a roller skating flick because Roll Bounce "didn't make
money." 

OK, so I guess that's a major spoiler in Warner Brother's eyes. But I
think it's kinda cool to see a PG-13 movie set in current times that
shows young men and women battling with the process of growing up. If
you've seen lots of movies like me, you'll know where ATL borrows it's
cues from--the friendships of Juice, the house party from House Party,
the fat girl from Cooley High a dash of Purple Rain the broad tapestry
of Last Picture Show or American Graffiti and the swagger of Saturday
Night Fever. It also owes a lot to John Hughes' early work. That being
said, director Chris Robinson, in his feature debut, delivers strong
visuals and an excellent soundtrack/score that constantly reminds you
that these are real places, people and problems. He gets excellent
performances from his cast--a mix of veteran actors and musicians in
their film debuts.

The big plot twist in the story (which I won't give away) raises a very
interesting question that the movie with as broad a scope as ATL has no
way to answer--do these young girls project a "grown-up" attitude
because it's fashionable or is it the only way to find love and
attention from these young boys who are, in their own way, desperately
in search of their own manhood without the guidance of true role
models? ATL tels a very familiar story but with interesting hues and
nuances that defy the typical "hood" flick. I encourage you to check it
out in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
ATL is a great movie for all involved in it i think that it is very
underrated movie. They thought that it was going to be a movie in the
vein of boys in the hood with it's social commentary about the state of
black people in todays world, but it just ain't that movie. ATL dosen't
have long speeches about African American culture from people drinking
40's and playing dominos. ATL dosen't subscribe to HOOD stereyotypes in
fact no one in this movie is ever shown Drinking Beer or Smoking weed,
sure ANT deals drugs but you don't see people ever smoke it. it's a
movie that isn't about images but about the problems that the
characters face that are real to life. the people have problems like
what to do after high school and looking out for your family and
friends. The actors in this moie are well cast the actors seem to
really know their characters, and most of all TI is perfect in this
movie he has a great energy that helps fits the movie to a T
<|_=00=_|>
What many people refuse to believe is the accuracy in socio-economic
depictions of dramas and routines of young black teens that ATL brings
to life in theaters. As I glance over the several reviews written by
critics who seem rather shocked that skating is actually a hip-hop
trend makes me even more convinced the world knows very little about
what really goes on in the vines of trends and threads of hip-hop.
(Skating has been "in" for a while now...anyways) ATL expressed reality
artistically, which makes the movie more, in my opinion "fun." The
movie scopes into the lives, gives reasons for deprivations and answers
from where, what and why do people find a haven in where they
"kick-it," and who they "kick it with" I think ATL is a good movie
because what it really expressed to me is the strife to... just making
it.

Heck, I never went skating, I mean, I'm not a very trendy or hip-hopish
type of person to boot, wouldn't fit in. So the movie provides a
perspective and although I may not be so into rap, the movie still
gives a strong statement, so I like it. It motivates me, kind of like,
Hustle and Flow.

Overall, ATL was a lot better than I expected, especially the acting,
who knew Rapper T.I. can light up the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I may be biased because I love T.I. but I was pleased with the movie!!
I thought it was good to finally show something other than the usually
clich√© movie about urban kids who all want to sell drugs and smoke. It
shows the "real" side of urban kids. The side the media never wants us
to see. All kids are not bad; and no we do not all perpetuate the
stereotype. Great movie, but I will admit the end of the movie did not
lend to the imagination and could have expounded more on what other
possibilities there were for the conclusion. However, T.I. is amazing
in this movie; especially considering this was his big screen debut.
Natural, funny, and real.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this movie. I didn't expect it to be very good because
none of the actors are A-list actors and there are several characters
played by rappers, including T.I.'s debut as the lead character Rashad.
I'm not saying rappers don't act well because some of the best actors
are also rappers, such as Ice Cube, LL Cool J, and Tupac. But, it just
seems like these days a lot of rappers who can not act are trying to
anyway. But, my point is that T.I. and Big Boi are really good in this
film. I wasn't even thinking of them as being rappers trying to act in
this movie because they just seemed like the characters that they were
playing.

I enjoyed the whole movie and was entertained from start to end. It was
even quite touching and emotional for those of you like that kind of
thing. It was fun and had a great soundtrack too. I would highly
recommend checking this one out. In fact, I just saw it yesterday and
I'm going to go buy the DVD for my collection. It's one of the best
movies I've seen in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
The New Urban drama/comedy ATL,about a group of friends coming of age
in Atlanta,was better than I expected in so many ways:It was sweet.It
had heart.It was funny in real and unexpected ways,and it had a pace
and rhythm all its own.

Another reviewer mentioned "Cooley High" as a reference,but I would
also add American Graffiti,especially in using a central location,in
this case a roller skating rink,as the focus of the action,as the
meeting place of the kids in the area.

I'm afraid that once the word gets around that this isn't another
tough,gangster style film,that it will die quickly at the box office,as
evidenced by the bored,loud teenagers I saw the film with tonight.

Are small,personal African American films like ATL and "Something New"
doomed to failure because of their refusal to dumb down to their
audiences with broad,crude humor?I hope not,but why should they be any
different than white audiences that cant see a good thing if their
lives depended on it either.

End of rant.Take a chance on a film that takes a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
There gotta be some HATERS out there cuz this movie score is way outta
wack at a 3.6. This movie was glamorized but T.I. kicking it with his
crew and trying to figure out a good life was a true to life
performance. The direction was beautiful and it really gave people a
taste of hot-lanta. Everything combine for an accomplished finish and a
smooth fun ride. I am so glad I watched it you will be too.

I wondered, as you would, how can a movie capture the ATL? The
attitudes, style and environment puts you right on the streets down
south. To represent the south I think this movie adds pride to it's
image right now. Other then that, Chris Robinson is a killer behind the
camera. The shots really hooked me into the film. If that's not enough,
the cast was dead on, especially for some new comers.
<|_=00=_|>
A story about young people struggling to overcome the darker side of
the neighborhood. Rashad Swann (Tip Harris) comes of age and takes
responsibility for himself and his brother Antwone (Ross) to move
toward getting out of the hood. Rashad meets a great girl named New New
(London) with a secret that almost costs them their relationship.
Antwone gets involved in dealing and suffers from a boss that isn't
very understanding. Rashad and his skating buddies spend their time at
the Cascade roller rink competing in skating events in preparation for
the annual skating tournament that they've won several times. The main
characters are all pretty likable and the dialog was a good compromise
between reality and prime time TV. They even had an old timer speaking
some Jive. You won't find an abundance of emotion from the righteous
characters, but it is well worth seeing. Even with all the daily
troubles, it doesn't leave you with a bad taste in your mouth.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a good movie. I have to admit I was a little skeptical, I mean
this is my first time seeing, Tip "T.I." Harris act and I did not want
to be disappointed by another rapper turned actor. I would have to say
that he did good, I liked the fact that he was able to keep his
southern accent and the "TI" feel, but still get into the role of
Rashaad. I didn't understand why the movie had to be centered around
the local skating rink, but thought it was different. Never before that
I can remember have I seen a movie where they focus on the different
skating groups. This movie really made me want to break out my skates
from back in the day and hit the local rink, like I used when I was in
middle school. I say it reminds me of Boys In the Hood, because you
have a group of friends all trying to make it out of the hood and you
really want to know who will make it out, alive anyway. The movie
definitely had funny parts, that will keep you interested. I wouldn't
say this was your typical hood movie though, because there wasn't a lot
of killing and baby mama drama, I think it actually had somewhat of a
family feel by providing you with in site on Rashaad's family, but also
by making you see the importance of sticking together during hard
times. If you are bored, need a good movie to watch, that's going to
lift your spirits, this would be the one. I would definitely watch it
again, because it was overall a good movie.
