
Wonderful, wonderful movie. A lesson in film-making. I know a lot of
people won't be able to see it for what it is because of the
supernatural/horror elements (which are usually a turn-off for film
snobs), but the movie is just extremely well-made.

Consider the fact that Linney's character's true conflict is not
winning the trial, but a satisfyingly complex internal struggle which I
will not name so as not to spoil the movie. Or the plethora of food for
thought that the movie offers, regarding existentialist issues of
perception vs. objective truth, and social issues of liability and
responsibility.

Some very interesting scenes that find ways to express things in subtle
and creative ways without spelling them out. And an incredible and
ballsy performance by Jennifer Carpenter, which takes Linda Blair's
possession to a whole new level. Also, notice how a key dramatic
monologue is presented, contrary to what we might expect, with no
sentimental music in the background. The cinematography is also great.
I was reminded of Dario Argento's vivid colors in Suspiria on more than
one occasion.

Although it's not the focus of the film, the movie also offers a few
very cool scare moments, and seeing Emily possessed is terrifying.

This is my favorite "underdog" movie of the year so far.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an interesting film. While it's not terribly frightening, the
film's juxtaposition of court room drama, and the exorcism scenes are
intriguing. I found it to be less of your stereotypical demonic
possession movie (ie: The Exorcist), and more of a film that leaves you
pondering the possibilities and questioning our more modern
perspectives and scientific rationales for things that sometimes can't
be adequately explained through these means. The fact that it's based
on the reported possession of Anneliese Michel (circa 1970, Germany)
does make the film more unnerving. The actor's performances, while not
exceptional, are at least engaging. The special effects are rather
limited, but well done. All in all, It's a film that 's certainly worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
For the most part, films which were intended to frighten the viewing
audience usually succeed in instead producing involuntary laughs. So it
was nice to see a 'horror' film that not only has a brain for a change,
but actually succeeds in being frightening. It may help that the film
is allegedly based on true events, which gives credibility to the
storyline, and prevents the movie from having those annoyingly gaping
plot holes. And indeed, the heading "Based on a true story" doesn't
come off as a glaring lie. There are indeed events happening in the
film which are questionable as to whether they actually occurred in
real life, but the beauty of 'Emily Rose' is that most of the film is
retold by various characters, so the events described are as the
character perceived them. In this way, the film doesn't distance its
audience by declaring that "well, demons were in the film which was
'based on a true story', so demons must actually exist".

But in many ways, 'Emily Rose' is different from almost every past
horror movie in the sense that it doesn't make really obvious attempts
to frighten its audience. Instead, director/co-screenwriter Scott
Derickson seems content to make us think. There are several questions
raised in the film regarding religious beliefs and the public's general
perception of them, but these are all handled in an objective and
impartial manner. And as for the scare factor, since the filmmakers
aren't overly obvious in trying to scare the audience, the film
actually is frightening at several points - again, unusual for a horror
film. The frightening events regarding Emily Rose's exorcism are all
the more frightening as they don't seem horribly staged and
predictable. (although the cheesy demonic animation, as shown in the
trailer, could have been done far better) It's true that composer
Christopher Young seems unable to resist the horror movie cliché of
having horribly over-dramatic music which builds to a climax at the
most frightening moment, but for the most part the movie is able to
surpass the usual horror clichés.

It helps of course that the cast all deliver quality performances, the
obvious standout being Jennifer Carpenter as Emily. Her possession
scenes are nothing short of incredible, the sheer torment she seems
capable of portraying is utterly captivating. Laura Linney also shines
in the lead, giving a powerful and affecting performance as the
attorney of the convicted priest who performed Emily Rose's exorcism.
As said priest, Tom Wilkinson also manages to impress, delivering a
quietly effective and very human performance. My only complaint is that
the characters of Campbell Scott and Colm Feore were really badly
written, coming off as the typical antagonistic figures, and nothing
more. Both give satisfying performances, despite their one dimensional
characters, especially Feore, who has always been talented at taking
terribly written characters, and giving them life and personality
nonetheless. 

So The Exorcism of Emily Rose may not quite be the very best of its
genre, but it certainly proves to be one of the more intelligently made
ones. The director seems to have for once taken that extra step, and
put aside the endless thrills and shocks in favor of making us think a
bit. There are some cheesy effects, such as the demonic visions, but
there are some genuinely frightening parts, especially the actual
exorcism scene, mainly due to the chilling and captivating performance
from Jennifer Carpenter as the title character. The principle cast
members, Laura Linney and Tom Wilkinson also give strong performances,
bringing many layers to their characters. Quite the quality piece
overall, and one worth seeing.

-8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Ironically enough, "The Excorcism of Emily Rose" got released in my
country (Belgium) synchronously with another similar, real-life
lawsuit. A self-acclaimed exorcist has to justify the death of a young
girl after performing inhuman rituals and fatal exorcism tricks. It's
weird having seen this movie and then follow the lawsuit on TV and in
newspapers. It's so easy to deny the existence of demonic possession
and to brush aside exorcism as quackery, but then  as this film shows
 you're also questioning people's beliefs and family values. Emily
Rose is the sympathetic daughter of a poor but deeply religious rural
family. Shortly after her long-anticipated start at the university, her
body becomes the host of no less than 6 different demons. The priest of
the little town where she lives, father Moore, is doing everything he
can to purify Emily's body but the demons are too strong and she
doesn't survive the exorcism. What makes this film different than the
obvious 70's classic "The Exorcist" (which also entirely revolves on
the possession of an innocent girl) is that the story takes place after
the actual exorcism and in the courtroom where father Moore is on trial
for negligent homicide. His ambitious lawyer Erin Bruner goes straight
for the acquittal of her client, but father Moore only cares for
telling Emily's story, despite the fact that this can cost him his
career as a priest. The screenplay of this film was based on a true
story and director Scott Derrickson does a great job in making the
extended courtroom sequences interesting and compelling. The
flashbacks, showing Emily's horrible decrepit, are very atmospheric and
contain multiple shock-moments. The acting is sublime, with a powerful
Tom Wilkinson as the devoted priest and an enchanting Jennifer
Carpenter as the poor Emily Rose. This is not a full-blooded horror
film, but definitely one of the most unsettling, disturbing and
thought-provoking dramas of the last few years. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Some people are going to be shocked by the last 15 minutes of the film.
It is NOT a remake or bad copy of "The Exorcist". That film is truly
understandings for reasons that are pretty much its psychological ties
to the fears in all of us. In "Emily Rose", the emphasis is on our
perspectives, and how it affects our choices. Laura Linney is truly
phenomenal in the film, and I sure hope she finally receives all the
prizes that have eluded in the last few years. As a side note, I have
just witnessed the remarkable work by Rachel Weisz in "The Contant
Gardener", and I have to state my opinion that Ms. Linney is a bit more
powerful and effective in her multi-layered performance as the defense
attorney.

"Emily Rose" will have people talking because it demands its audience
to take sides as it reveals the events that led to the exorcism of the
title. In here, the church grants permission to go ahead and perform an
exorcism on Emily Rose, the title character. Things turn out to be a
little different, and suddenly the priest who performed the exorcism
finds himself in the middle of a big mess. Throw in the elements of
psychological and physical ailments versus theological beliefs, and you
really have a collision of very powerful forces.

The film presents both sides quite well, and there are times when you
have to really make an effort to avoid switching perspectives. In the
end, it's very clear what the writers and filmmakers set out to do, but
it's an intense and very emotional 2 hrs. The film works very well
because of Wilkinson's fiery priest and the outstanding work of
Campbell Scott. Yet it belongs to Laura Linney in what might be her
most powerful performance yet. She truly presents a case, with steely
assurance she is one of the best things to come out of Hollywood in the
last two decades. Now we know her work "You Can Count on Me" and
"Kinsey" were just the beginning. One could sense the power in the
chilling closing scenes of "Mystic River" and her limited appearance in
"The House of Mirth". Nothing comes close to what she achieves here.
<|_=00=_|>
With the exception of the title, " Emily Rose" vs "Anneliese Michel",
this was an excellent adaptation of the book. Actually, one of the
consultants was Felicitas Goodman, the author and anthropologist who
studied this case and I believe, owns the audiotapes of the ritual.

It is actually more of a court room drama. However, there is no sparing
of pure psychological terror. All and all an excellent movie. Other
posters have observed that believing in Christianity or the lack
thereof, is not shoved down the viewer's throats. It allows one to form
their own opinion.

My only concern; the PG-13 rating. Way too intense for viewers 10-13
years old or younger.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie today and thought it was wonderful.

The acting was excellent, from one end to the other. The scenes, the
flashbacks, the drama, the horror, the faith vs doubt theme ... all
were entwined in a back-and-forth web that maintained constant focus on
the strongest feature of all: the Story itself.

And what a Story! I won't give it away except to say that the plots and
subplots and intrigue and characterizations were all woven together to
spin a simply riveting, terrifying, provocative, endearing, challenging
Story.

I really liked the multiple depictions of What Happens and How the
Characters React. You see Something Happen; and then feel Fear; and
then watch the Face of the Character on hand experience Fear; and then
perhaps the order is slightly changed: you see the Face of the
Character experience Fear as the Character gazes in terror over the
viewer's shoulder. Then you see What the Character is looking at. And
experience Fear.

I also really liked the legal conflict ... and the way the Story
honored both sides. There's no doubt, ever, where our sympathies lie:
with the Laura Linney character. Yet, the prosecutor is not at all a
"straw man." He is give a great opening, and is effective and
believable throughout. This enhanced greatly the Doubt vs Faith
conflict that reinforced the Story throughout.

And through all this, the Priest's insistence that the Story should be
told, is what really drove the action above all. This gave a feeling of
authenticity to the Story that both made it appealing, and frightening.

A wonderful, wonderful, movie ... !
<|_=00=_|>
I think one of the biggest problems with today's movie industry is that
in teasers and trailers most, if not all, of the action/special effects
are shown. Then you go see a movie because the trailer looks great only
to find out that you've basically seen all the good stuff. Thankfully,
I have learned that this is how many trailers work, but I still go see
a movie praying that I'm not wasting my hard-earned money on a really
expensive and really long commercial; let me savor something! I was
pleasantly surprised at The Exorcism of Emily Rose; going knowing that
it's not only about her exorcism, but also about the trial that
follows.This movie is also about alternatives,what ifs, and
perceptions. A good movie for psychology majors--as am I--who are
trying to learn about mental illness, diagnosis, and the DSM-IV.

You don't need to know much about Emily, science, exorcism, or the
Bible to be able to follow this movie; but, if you do, it'll definitely
make you raise questions about your own faith, beliefs, and what you've
learned throughout life about yourself.

Will you like this movie? Think "Primal Fear" meets "The Exorcist"
meets the TV Show "Fact or Fiction".
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I know, we've seen too many mediocre horror movies in the past few
years. Yes, I'm fed up with horror stories that are "based on true
events", too, but don't write this movie off too soon. If you ignore
the assertion that this has all happened in reality and just accept
that you're in for a supernatural movie, you'll have a gay ol' time
with "The Exorcism Of The Emily Rose".

The first thing to mention is that there has never been a combination
of horror movie and courtroom drama before, and while some reviewers
have stated that the two genres don't go together well, I have to
disagree. The courtroom setting added a lot of suspense to the story
and horror movies always work best when there is suspense added to the
spooky and creepy elements. And boy, does this movie have some creepy
scenes.

The four main actors do a fine job and the restrained direction is
pretty atmospheric too, except for some minor fashionable shots that
are probably not going to age very well (for example, one time Scott
Derrickson reverts to Darren Aronofsky-cam, which is already getting
old). Anyway, the main attraction is the story itself, and as I've
said, it's fast paced and exciting - at least until the third act. Up
until that point it's hard to watch the screen at times because
Derrickson uses his shock scenes so effectively and steers clear of any
jump-clichés. Then a certain climax is reached, the movie reduces its
supernatural elements and relies maybe a bit too much on the courtroom
drama aspect. On the plus side Derrickson avoids going over the top
like so many other horror movies do including embarrassing CGI-orgies
in their showdowns. On the other hand, it is exactly that relatively
quiet ending that prevents "The Exorcism Of Emily Rose" from becoming a
real classic. One just has the feeling that the priest and the trial
made a whole lot of fuss about nothing, because there's no real
solution in the end.

"The Exorcism Of Emily Rose" has enough chilling moments not to be
overshadowed by "The Exorcist", the big Kahuna of the exorcism genre,
but it's not going to be remembered as a cornerstone of the horror
genre. In 2005 you couldn't find a lot of spooky movies that were
better than this one, though.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all this was a good movie. I wouldn't necessarily consider it
a horror movie like Friday The 13th but it was suspenseful like The
Ring. I had to look away sometimes because being a suspenseful movie
watcher all my life I knew by the sound of the chilling music something
was gonna happen that would freak me out and boy did it do its job.

It wasn't overly predictable. It was a look back on what exactly
happened when Emily Rose got possessed and how it ended. It wasn't a
"push the catholic belief down everyones throat" because defending the
Priest was an agnostic lawyer trying to not only get ahead in her
career but convince a journey that medical science could not determine
she had a medical condition but a demonic possession. Cant tell you
anymore than that.

The movie had a "dark" look and was cozy it kept me on the edge of my
seat and the way she got possessed and how she looked was way freaky.
Good movie and worth to own on DVD!
