
The real shame is that someone might come to IMDb, see that this film
is rated 2.6, think it's a legitimate rating, and not see this film.
This is truly a solid film.

Yes, the film is predictable, and at times clich√©. Most of these
inspirational films aimed at young people are. But this film rises
above most others. It hits it's notes very well, and the direction and
choreography are on point. The performances - acting and dancing - were
very good.

It's a shame that so many people have such hatred in their hearts that
they won't expand their own minds by learning of cultures outside of
their own. It's a shame that so many people who have obviously never
seen this film used their time and energy to rate this film a 1. How
pathetic is that? I'm glad that this film was a financial success,
despite the "haters". I just feel sorry for the kinds of people who
would make spreading hatred a part of their lives.

You can see by some of the comments made by some of the IMDb
commentators, so to speak, that they never saw this film. It's also
obvious that they know nothing of the subject of this film, stepping.
These are the people who might want to see this film and learn of
something new.

I, for one, am not big fan of "Greek" organizations. Still, I thought
that the messages in, the performances in, and the overall execution of
this film was better than any in this recent group of college
age/friendship genre films.

I enjoy films of all types, and I can honestly say that this is a solid
film for this genre. Also, it's new in subject matter, which makes it
different from it's peer films.

If you're on the fence about seeing this film. You should see it. It's
pretty much what you think it is from the trailers, but it's a very
well made version.

I'd give the film a strong 7/10. For it's genre, however, it's as good
as there is.
<|_=00=_|>
I know. The idea is not really original, but yet i have to admit the
characters and the acting is not bad. The moves are pretty good, too.
What i really did not like was the plot points. Everything was so
obvious. Especially in the end. I knew exactly what was going to
happen. Yet a gread show

I actually enjoyed the leading actor very much. 

I've seen Street Style and Step up. Whereby i think Stomp the Yard
cannot keep up with Step up, it is definitely betther than Street
Style. 

- 2 stars because it is not a genuine idea - 1 star because the plot
points a very easy to foresee - 1 Star for bad dialogue sometimes

... which leaves 6 out of 10 for an enjoyable movie. If you like the
genre, go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
STOMP THE YARD comes as a pleasant surprise to those of us who have yet
to be introduced to 'stepping' - a sport/dance form that is not break
dancing, not hip-hop, not modern dance, not clogging, not ballet, but
instead is an exhilarating display of rhythm, physical dexterity, and
creative choreography that makes this little film well worth watching.

The story is minimal and hackneyed and serves basically as an outline
for the dance performances. DJ (the enormously talented dancer/actor
Columbus Short) is sent from Los Angeles to Atlanta's Truth University
after his conviction for street brawling, a fight in which his brother
(Chris Brown) was killed. Once on campus DJ is works for his uncle as a
gardener and is soon courted for his step dance skills by two rival
fraternities. One fraternity gains DJ's attention and he pledges. Of
course there is the requisite love conflict (the beautiful Meagan Good
as April), who just happens to be the girlfriend of the rival
fraternity step leader (Darrin Henson), and the usual undercurrent of
familial dichotomies between DJ's humble background and April's
influential father bring the tension to the front: the result is DJ's
triumphant performance in the annual stepping competition between the
two fraternities. The ending is predictable but sensitive and with a
message.

The real star of the film is the magnificently choreographed and
executed dancing, performed by the actual cast members. Director
Sylvain White and his choreographers center their attention on the big
sequences and the result is very fine entertainment. In addition to the
gifted Columbus Short and Darrin Henson the cast includes such fine
actor/dancers as Brian J. White, Ne-Yo, Laz Alonzo, Oliver Ryan Best,
Richmond Duain Martyn, Justin Hires, and many others. It is difficult
to resist the excitement of the commitment of this fine cast to the
introduction of step dancing to the public at large. So much talent!
Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Does this movie deserve a 2? No Way. I don't know why people feel the
need to preface their voting. Did you like it? Yes. Period. I wasn't
expecting a lot and perhaps that's why I had so much fun enjoying the
film. I'm an indie filmmaker and sometimes it's a challenge to take off
my filmmaker hat and just simply enjoy a movie. I was able to do it
with this film. It was exciting, beautiful to watch and I was surprised
by the storyline. People who slam a movie because it has a moral to the
story or an uplifting theme should check themselves to see if they have
too much cynicism running through their veins. As a black man, it was
nice to see a film where characters used their wits and intelligence to
avoid confrontation or deal with another's blatant disrespect. *****Oh,
and the cinematography for this film was CRAZY!!! Great dance
sequences, great camera work. It was SICK to the Nth!!!! Solid film to
watch!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm often baffled at the ratings that some of the movies end up with
out here. This movie is far better than a 3+. Unfortunately, I didn't
catch the very beginning, but what I did see was entertaining and
well-acted, just what one would usually expect from a film of any sort.
Sure, the story's been told, as most stories have, but they all have
something a little unique to offer. The dance sequences weren't
necessarily awe-inspiring, but they also weren't drawn out so long as
to bore you. All in all, I enjoyed this picture. My perspective comes
from that of a middle-aged white guy, so it might be quite different
from yours.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe this is sitting with a 3 rating?! I found the
dancing/choreography fascinating not to mention the eye candy element
and just the logistics of how they do those moves? I had not seen the
actor who played DJ previously but found him quite capable as was the
female lead.

Plot-wise vaguely reminiscent of Save the Last Dance.

I don't know what people that rated this low were expecting - my
thought is that "the dance" was the main point of the whole movie and
entertainment enough in itself. The plot elements were somewhat
predictable yet with a little twist I was not expecting & overall I
thought the movie progressed well as opposed to movies that have long,
drawn out plot development.

Perfect for those of us with A.D.D. ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I gotta tell you, I didn't expect much from something. The characters
are built up really well. This is a feel-good movie. There are a few
plot lines that make you think things won't turn out okay, but in the
end it does, and it makes you smile. Check this movie out yourself, you
won't be disappointed. Also, it's probably the only one in it's kind,
that I know of anyway

Can't say more else.. The camera-work was good, storyline is strong,
character development as said before is good. There are some twists in
the plot, which make you wanna cheer for the main character. In the end
it's about who wins it all.
<|_=00=_|>
good. a street dancer with great moves with his crew. they beet this
Mexican mob of guys and they fight them and want there money back. the
main dudes bro. gets killed. he goes to live with his aunt and uncle.
at registratson he falls for a girl. he quickly gets in-voled with
dancing. he gets in-voled and teaches a preppy squad street moves. and
his new girl is fine he and her get along well. there's not a lot to
say about. because it mostly training and dancing. it was entertaining.
i do street dancing and after the movie i was pumped. did a couple
flips and everything. nah. but it's better than a lot of other dancing
movies. good soundtrack. i really liked it.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first watched this movie, I honestly hated it. The storyline
was, naturally, predictable and the acting was just alright. But I
ended up watching the movie again and it grew on me. I love all the
dancing and stepping, and I've learned to deal with the plot. It's
really just the dancing that made this one of my now favorite movies.
So Stomp the Yard doesn't have the best storyline. The good parts about
this movie are the dancing, music, and might I add, all of Columbus
Short and Brian White's fineness throughout, haha. If you love dancing
movies as I do, then you should give this movie a chance. Don't let the
poor rating fool you; for what it is, it really is a decent movie.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have seen any sort of dancing or cheerleader movie you will
always be three steps ahead of the plot. It's a simple story of an
angry outcast who attends a new school and stirs up trouble. He
immediately becomes sexually attracted (yes sexually attracted, the
romance is extremely superficial) to a girl at his school, and develops
a vendetta against some guy and by extension his entire frat basically
because the guy is going out with the hot girl. He chooses not to
accept their apology and so we have this movie, and our "hero". Somehow
after this point, the plot keeps getting less and less interesting and
progressively worse, until the credits role and we raise our hands in
thanks. 

The one redeeming quality this movie has is the dancing. If you have a
legitimate interest in dancing this movie might not be the tedious
experience it is for most people. Chris Brown, the frats, and Columbus
Short present very good dance moves, but between those dance moves
there's very little that inspires or interests the viewer.

In summary the plot is horrible, but the dancing is good. Don't buy the
DVD.
