
I wasn't going to comment until I saw all the negative and I thought
unfair comments about this movie. I've always said that movies reviews
often show what's going on inside us as much as what's went on on the
screen. I for one was at first reluctant to see this movie because I
thought Chris Rock's other movie attempts were juvenile. But when I
read his announcement that this was his first "adult" movie, I became
interested. I appreciated that this was a slice of life movie. I heard
a complaint that there was no plot but since when does life present a
neatly contrived plot? The movie represented a period out a man's life,
a particularly rough patch in his marriage. It was exaggerated where it
needed to be for comic effect, which for me, I'm happy to say was very
successful, since most attempts at comedy leave me stone faced. In
general both my boyfriend and I have discriminating tastes in movies.
It's tough to surprise us, please us, make us laugh, while at the same
time presenting a realistic life issue that makes one think. This movie
did that. It wasn't strictly formula. My suggestion is to not
automatically believe the negative reviews. Don't even take my review
as gospel. But I think any movie that creates such divergent reactions
deserves a look. I would suggest you definitely check it out and decide
for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Richard (Chris Rock) appears to have it all. He is a successful banking
executive in New York City, lives in a posh home in the suburbs, and
has the proverbial gorgeous wife and two kids. However, when a
beautiful female acquaintance from former years crosses his path again,
he begins to wonder if he is indeed missing something. Nikki is lovely
beyond words and makes a big play for him, promising a supercharged
sexual liaison. Richard toys with the idea, because it's true that his
sex life at home has waned, what with the ongoing decisions about the
children and the wall sconces for the living room. Should he risk an
affair? This is an occasionally funny film with very attractive
performers. Rock is a talented actor and he makes the most of the
script's humorous situations. Just watch him cave into smoking a weed
at a party or have a semi-serious encounter with a Viagra pill and you
will be very mirthful. The trouble is, of course, that the film's comic
moments are not in overabundance. The rest of the cast is very fine,
with Steve Buscemi giving a nice little performance as a scummy
colleague of Richard's. The two main female leads are colossally
beautiful and arresting individuals, adding greatly to the movie's
enjoyment. Costumes, sets, and production values are high. Beware,
however, of some strong language from time to time, as the F-bomb is
tossed around on occasion. All in all, this movie is not without humor
or good messages yet can not be declared an outright winner.
Nevertheless, it will do for an evening's entertainment or, more
importantly, it would make a great counseling tool for those
considering marriage in the near future. It's ultimate stance on
marital commitment and the perils of infidelity are admirable indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
This romantic comedy was different. For once, I was not able to predict
the outcome of the situation nor the ending. I really enjoyed the
movie. The character of Richard Cooper is believable and the issue that
is presented is realistic, esp. in America. It deals with the
temptation to cheat. And even focuses on the ancient issue of whether
or not men and women can have a platonic relationship. As well as the
question: Is this marriage going to work or stand the test of time or
temptation? It definitely is a movie for adults esp. couples. I laughed
the entire time. I give Chris Rock two thumbs WAY UP & mad KUDOS...I
Absolutely LOVED It!
<|_=00=_|>
Chloe in the Afternoon, Eric Rohmer's much acclaimed 1972 film, will
remain as a fine little pillar of the old story of a male character in
infidelity and morality with living a life with a significant other,
long after I Think I Love My Wife sits in the video stores and gets
mass replays on TV. Chris Rock's film, as co-writer/director, is never
one to really go down the path of dangerous contrivances or of the
annoyances with the quirks in characterizations. This is mostly due to
it being a comedy, and with Rock's own brand of sensibilities sort of
filtering into this otherwise very straightforward examination of truth
and desire in marriage, which is also very easy in some ways. 

In fact, as one who may pay attention to Rock's stand-up, at least ten
to fifteen minutes of material in the film- from the line near the
start "married and bored out of my f***ing mind", to the scene where
the married couples have finner- can be found in the 2004 stand-up
special Never Scared. This isn't a bad thing, though, and there's even
a hilarious wink to moments that come unexpected, either from past Rock
bits like the table-dance song in the club or the unfortunate,
ecstatically tasteless scene in the ambulance van.

But more than anything it's Rock, as star and filmmaker, an attempt at
making a vehicle that knows it's being a little silly at times, and
still reaching truths that are worthwhile. The joist of the plot
concerns Richard Coopper, Rock, as an investment banker in New York
city, married with two kids and quite successful, tempted by the
suddenness of Niki Tru (Kerry Washington, almost a 180 of the bland
'good girl' type of woman in Ray), who as Steve Buscemi's character
describes to Richard: "she's f***ing you, you just don't know it." At
the core of the film there is some momentum in the fact that Richard
doesn't go on to cheat, even as one might think this is the 'safe'
route. 

There is more of a safe turn that happens, which is to be sort of
expected, where Richard has a change of mind after letting go of the
temptation, and this part loses its credibility in relation to the rest
of the picture. But this isn't too much of a hindrance, so much of
there being something small, though noticeable, that is even less
credible. It reminds one of a similar problem in the Last Kiss, last
year's similar romantic-morality tale of tranquility broken by another
woman, because on the two sides neither is entirely satisfying. Niki is
a cold, tramp kind of girl who actually gets exposition even though,
despite Washington's portrayal, is annoying, yet Gina Torres's Brenda,
Richard's wife, doesn't get much put into her as a noticeable
character, except as a slightly blas√©, male portrayal of her being a
good mother, yet disengaged in the sexual sense.

Yet there is some good that comes out of Rock's connections to both
women that wasn't like the Last Kiss- he's able to garner a successful
tone of balance between the drama and comedy, and to the degree that
both are neither trying for anything great stay believable up to a
point. Buscemi's character is one who's added for a slight change in
tone, as at first the straight-laced friend for Richard, but then with
his own special idiosyncrasies, really involving Viagra and his own
complex with marriage. Meanwhile, Rock goes through his motions of
faces in his performance, and it's almost too perfunctory, like his
direction. It's definitely amiable and sympathetic, however, so it's
not really anything that makes it a bad excursion as a date movie.
There's some great songs mixed in, and a fantastic seduction scene
towards the end, plus a possible tip of the hat to The 40 Year Old
Virgin's end scene. 

If you need a good date movie right now, this would surely be one that
doesn't offend, and doesn't really make you call everyone you know to
see it, but it is smart enough for what it's worth, as opposed to any
other lot of romantic comedies where the characters are positively
sociopaths. Most you'll find here is a jealous hoodlum who puts a
stomping to Richard at one point (which is actually very, very funny,
even as a loose end). Not a bad remake, but not one to be put on the
same pedestal either.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who want to watch a comedy movie, then this is not what you
are looking for. Yeah it has Chris Rock as the main actor, but in this
movie he is not the stand up comedian, and he doesn't wish to make you
laugh out silly like he usually does in his TV shows.

The story is about a man, who has been married for seven years, and has
become a sex-deprived man because he has not make love for a long time.
Things got messier when he met his old flame and he suddenly got
attracted to her. She was supposed to be a temptress but I think she
looked more like a prostitute looking for customers in broad daylight.
But heck, he was still attracted to her, mainly because she offered to
give him the thing that his wife wouldn't want to give him anymore.
Catch my drift? So the story goes that he began to lose focus in his
life, particularly with his family and his job in a bank. All because
of the temptress and his stupidity to fall for her charm (and partly
due to his other head too).

This story addresses the problem faced by many married couple and I
think this movie did a good job in portraying the problem. Sometimes it
is hard to understand why many married couple choose to end their
marriage, and this movie certainly shed some idea on the problem.
Without doubt, a good watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The suburban middle class investment banker and family man Richard
Cooper (Chris Rock) has been married for eight years with his wife
Brenda (Gina Torres) and they have two children. Their marriage is in
crisis due to the lack of sex, and Richard is feeling completely bored
and dreaming on having sex everywhere with other women. When his sexy
single friend Nikki Tru (Kerry Washington) that he has not seen since
he was single stumbles in his office in Manhattan asking for a
recommendation letter for a job, Chris has lots of fun with her, but he
omits her visit to Brenda. Nikki visits Richard on the next afternoons,
jeopardizing his position and making Richard rethink about his choices
in life.

"I Think I Love My Wife" is an entertaining movie about a universal
situation ¬ñ the change of the sexual life between couples after years
of marriage. Kerry Washington is extremely sexy and is perfect in the
role of the smart single girl that uses her friendship seeking for fun.
It is very pleasant to see the scenes with this gorgeous actress. Chris
Rock plays a silly suburban character that fights for not cheating his
wife. However the situations are inconsistent since Richard does not
have sex with his wife and has daydreams with women; and when he meets
a woman like Nikki he does not have sex with her? Brenda, performed by
Gina Torres, is an unpleasant character with her denial of having sex.
The moralist conclusion, with Richard and Brenda singing, is simply
awful. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Acho Que Amo Minha Mulher" ("I Think I Love My Wife")
<|_=00=_|>
As Pootie Tang meets the marital comedy of Louis C.K.'s HBO show, I
Think I Love My Wife, turns out to be slightly funnier than it looks.
Although Chris Rock delivers lines in his films the same way he does in
stand-up, making his performances less than mediocre, he turns out to
be a more than competent director. Unfortunately that is where praise
for this conventional, formulaic, and proclaimed remake of Chloe in the
Afternoon stops. Rock vents much of his hostility towards women,
married women in particular, in an attempt to excuse male chauvinism
and infidelity. It seems the only message Rocks wants to get across is
that life ends once a man is married, and the only way to reinvigorate
this pre-marital excitement is to find a younger, crazy, attractive
women to obsess over you. Rock plays an investment banker living in
suburbia, working in the city as he narrates all the downsides of being
married and domesticated, like one of his old sketches on SNL.

Rock's second chance behind the camera finds him directing a script
filled with some chuckles, but plagued with undeniably bitter misogyny.
His direction does feel clumsy and misguided, especially in many of the
higher budget crane shots and slow motion tracking shots. The rest of
the movie is hovered by whether or not Rock will cheat on his wife,
while progressively straying away from his comfortable life at home.

And all of this conflict, and soul searching stems from his wife's
refusal to have sex. Why she won't have sex with him is all explained
in a short montage of rejections for unexplained and ridiculous
reasons, ("My head hurts.") Steve Buscemi manages to bring some flair
to film, despite the lighter fair of material he has to work with.
Ultimately Rock has shelled out a falsely inspired comedy that will
surely please fans of the venerated comedian.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to I Think I Love My Wife, I saw the
commercial advertisement for the DVD and this movie looked like so much
fun. So I finally got the rental and watched it this morning and I have
to say that I was a bit disappointed with it. You know what lost the
major points with me? Now, I know Chris Rock's humor, I know he likes
to joke about the white man, but this movie just seemed to keep
mentioning the white race which I wasn't impressed with. Just because
if it were the other way around with a certain line like "Is your wife
white?", now if it was a white woman saying "is your wife black?", most
people would have been insulted. I'm just sick of the humor, it's
getting old and we need to grow up. The story is just the typical man
with a mid life crisis with a typical marriage, at the least the horror
version.

Richard Cooper is a married man with two beautiful children, awesome
job with good pay, a big house, sounds like the perfect life, right?
Well, wrong! Him and his wife do not have sex any more and his life has
become a bit predictable, that is until he meets and old crush, Nikki
and temptation is knocking down the door. Richard plays naive at first
acting completely oblivious to her moves, yet when he realizes what
she's after, he just keeps hanging out with her risking his job that
she visits constantly and family. But Richard tries to remain tough
while living a life that he's already over since he's been married.

Over all, I Think I Love My Wife isn't a bad film, it just wasn't what
I expected. The acting was fine, it was just the story that seemed
unbalanced and not to mention the racial lines that were just
unnecessary. So if you're looking to watch this film, I would say to
give it a look, I think me taking those lines seriously is a bit much,
but I'm just sick of that "humor", I think we need to grow past it if
we want a better future, you know? But judge for yourself, other than
what I mentioned, it's just an average mid life crisis movie, nothing
more.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a man having to make choices between his wife and
kids, and a beautiful woman who suddenly appears in his life.

I thought this film was a comedy, but it was not. It was a drama about
a man in an less than satisfactory marriage. I think the negative
comments about this film stems from the fact that people expected this
to be a comedy, hence they got disappointed by what they see. Richard
Cooper's confusion is well portrayed, and I am sure a lot of people can
relate to the situation. If the film had a title that sounded less like
a comedy, so that people knew what to expect, I am sure it would have
enjoyed a better word of mouth.
<|_=00=_|>
... And, it's Chris Rock at center. The movie was amusing to watch.
There are some good laugh-out-loud moments, but it was mostly
interesting because of his edgy narration throughout the movie. We hear
his inner thoughts and clever wit - and we wait to see if he (a married
man) will eventually give in to the endless temptation of a female
friend.

Here's the setup: Rock plays a banker who has an effectively empty
marriage ... his wife is focused on raising their two kids and is at
the point of shunning any kind of physical intimacy. Out of the blue, a
female friend from his past shows up and is pretty much everything his
wife is not ... he can never say 'no' to meeting her, but where is it
leading? Watching Chris kind of narrate his thoughts and feelings was
fun to watch. All the other characters are kind of 1-dimensional, but
they are so well acted, they are interesting to watch.

Whether or not you're a Chris Rock fan, this movie is pretty good based
on its own merits: it's funny and insightful.
