
Unlike one of the other comments I read about Tyler Perry's latest
film, I thought this was well done. The violence in this movie is what
real life is like. And though, it is not suitable for young children or
"our boys and girls", there is a reason it is rated PG-13. This isn't a
feel-good family and children's movie. Kids 13 and older have most
likely seen equal to or more severe fighting walking through the halls
of their schools (as have I). And lets be real here - your typical 14
year old freshman in high school kid is not gonna spend $6.75 on a
movie called "Daddy's Little Girls", am I right? I couldn't agree more
that violence is not the answer - there's no doubt about that. But
Tyler Perry's movie's are known for real life day-to-day struggles and
how to overcome hard times. And if I found out that a drug dealer was
beating my 5 year old daughter and leaving dark bruises on her tiny
back, I would feel like doing the exact same thing. I'm so tired of
cheesy unrealistic movies with dull humor. Thank you Tyler Perry for
these films. You are a genius!
<|_=00=_|>
I guess I am one of the biggest dopes in this country, but I love
Daddy's Little Girls. I have seen it three times already. I loved
Gabrielle Union and she played the part well. Idris Elba was good too!
I liked the fact that Tyler Perry omitted the Madea character this
time, nice change. I enjoyed seeing familiar faces in this movie, which
added a nice touch. I cannot complain Mr. Perry did a pretty good job
and I am looking forward seeing another movie or play. My money was
well spent and I don't feel guilty. If you are in the mood for a little
drama, comedy and romance, then this is the movie to see. I guarantee
you will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film recently at the Black Film Maker International Film
Festival here in London.

Not at all like Perry's previous films which have both been premiered
at the festival in the last few years. Instead of broad Christian
Cross-Dressing Gun Totting Comedy, what we have here is a gentle
romantic drama with a smattering of jokes here and there.

At got to say it wasn't to bad though I have to admit I preferred the
Meadea films. The performances were OK especially the leading actors
Union & Elba. The story is a bit hackneyed but I guess that's the cynic
in me. You kind of knew exactly how the film was going to end from the
open credits. The audience I saw it with loved it.

That got me thinking why can't you see Perry's work in the UK other
than at the BFM Film Festival. Why not release the films on DVD, any
visit to Dalston/Brixton/Harlesden in London will tell you that's
there's a great illicit trade in Perry's films.

Anyway, if you like a undemanding and somewhat unoriginal romantic
drama this is just the thing for you.

Black Narcissus
<|_=00=_|>
Daddy's Little Girls is my favorite Tyler Perry film so far. I am a
recent fan of Tyler Perry's work my first film being Meet the Browns
and ever since I was hooked. Tyler Perry works hard to make his films
feel real and he never disappoints. In this film a man is trying to buy
a garage while helping his three daughters grandmother take care of
them. When tragedy strikes an almost never-ending battle for his
children begins. As he must try and get his children back from the
clutches of their drug dealing mother he is about to fail. Then a
successful yet mean lawyer comes into his life just in time. With her
help he might be able get his daughters back and maybe find someone to
love just as all hope seemed lost.

This is probably one of Tyler Perry's most realistic films. It has some
humor to help lighten the mood and some nice moments to give you a good
feeling of whats about to happen.
<|_=00=_|>
Tyler Perry's Medea-less tale of a father trying to raise his daughters
but finding trouble from the girls mother who has taken up with a drug
dealer.

Good little movie with a nice sense of place. Certainly moralistic and
a tad simplistic (as all his stories are), but enjoyable none the less.
Its a good film but has little that will make it stand out from the
rest other than its good film. (I'm left to wonder if Perry's rather
busy dance card will hurt his film out put since with a TV show and now
several films a year I have to wonder if he will be able to craft films
that stand out, or will they be like this good, but forgettable?) Worth
watching- though odds are you'll forget you've ever seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
Wonderfully done movie, Edris and Gabrelle really sizzled as Monty and
Julie. I have watched it about 10 times. It was good to see a black man
taking care of his kids. I really enjoyed the church scene for Monty
seems to be drawing strength from the Pastor sermon. Good part where
the residents gets together to stand up to the drug dealers in the
neighbor hood. The girls gave a very strong performance also. I really
enjoyed the part when they are having dinner with the girls and China
says do not come up in here acting like you know us. The scene at
Aquariaum was great when Julie friend come up to her and ask what was
she doing there with this man and do you like him.
<|_=00=_|>
right at the very beginning when checking the oil dipstick fixed the
car.

This was horrible. It was filled to the brim with distressing
stereotypes and equally poor dialogue. And it was made that much worse
because I watched this after seeing Idris Elba in Luther and as Nelson
Mandela - both of which were great. 

I know that there are some people in the black community who are not
good parents or role models, and maybe I am out of line having an
opinion because I am not black, but this movie went so over the top
with that theme that it was embarrassing. 

The only redeeming part of this whole movie was Anthony Hamilton's
twenty second contribution. 

Not even Tasha Smith and Idris Elba could save this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Tyler perry's latest effort follows in the frank Capra school of
film-making. he takes a john doe and personalizes his struggle in what
could be perceived as a weepy or cheesy manner, but it ultimately works
because of the execution. let me get this clear up front: perry isn't
frank Capra and this film isn't Mr. deeds goes to town or Mr. smith
goes to Washington. of course, Capra was around longer when he made
those and he had the efforts of greats like James Stewart and Gary
cooper. but while this film doesn't reach the heights of Capra, it does
tell a good, human story and it does so with some entertainment and
humanity. some of the acting could have been better and i would have
liked a fuller, more colorful (as in more entertaining or well-rounded)
cast. one thing that makes Capra films (as well as Anthony Mann films)
so good is the cast of secondary characters who act as foils to the
protagonist, as well as offer comic relief. this film works because of
the work perry does early in the film to establish some comedy and
intrigue. just a couple touches here and there can be the difference
between an engaged and invested audience and one that is checking their
watches. B+.
<|_=00=_|>
"Daddy's Little Girls" is a decent/good movie that could have been a
great movie. I say that it is a decent movie because the overall plot
was pretty solid and the acting was very good. However, it could have
been a great film if the story could have been told with greater detail
and the film had been better edited.

Let's put it this way, if T.P. were to have written this film as a
school paper, the teacher would have given it a C+. The theme and
concept for the paper would have been sound and offered lots of
potential  a solid B. However, due to punctuation errors, grammar
errors, misspelled words and run-on sentences (For those who took
English at Howard U  instant D).the teacher was being nice to give
T.P. a C+.

T.P. has done only one great movie  "Diary Of A Mad Black Woman". The
second film was cute. This 3rd film was OK. I will give him the benefit
of the doubt for this film, he probably has many other things that he
is working on. However, for the next film, he better take the time to
write, direct and edit a high quality product.
<|_=00=_|>
Idris Elba's Monty James is a hardworking, well-liked soul across town,
known for his compassion to others and extreme dedication to his three
daughters, who he is trying to provide with a better life since their
mother (Tasha Smith) walked out. Yet it should come as no surprise that
when she jumps back into the quiet family's life, everything takes a
turn for the worse. She is now dating a deadbeat gangbanger and demands
the custody of her children so they don't have to live with Monty, who
is housing a dirty secret of his own.

Meanwhile, Monty becomes well-acquainted with Julia Rossmore (Gabrielle
Union), a high-maintenance, somewhat demanding lawyer, who is taxied
around by him as one of his two Joe-jobs. In order to keep his kids, he
must arm himself with the best lawyer possible, and manages to get
buddy-buddy with Maya so that he can have her defend him. All while
simultaneously maintaining an honest relationship with the woman, and
keeping a close eye on his girls, who are sent to live with their
mother and her boyfriend after an incident at home.

Tyler Perry's Daddy's Little Girls is by far the most accomplished
flick I've seen by him, combining sentimentality and
parental-commitment for a truly winning blend of a human story. In the
three other Perry picture I've seen, he tends to often focus too much
on petty conflicts, soap-opera characters, and thinly constructed drama
that leaves nothing to be desired. He focuses on stereotypes and
archetypes rather than recognizable humans. Here, however, he
accomplishes almost everything he has neglected in his past films to
make a watchable and thoroughly enjoyable drama.

Elba, who gets better and better with each performance, holds much of
the weight of the film on his back and deserves much of the credit for
its overall success. The film refrains from making him out to be a
Godsend that should be treated with royalty, and also doesn't amplify
the "tragic hero" ideas it conveys in the latter act. What we get is a
character smart and competent enough to believe, but one that's also
noticeably flawed and contemptible.

There's also a surprising freshness to the way Elba and Union carry out
their relationship together in the film. It doesn't erect itself off of
tired clichés and romantically uninteresting drivel, but rather
illustrates a likable relationship between two people - hugely far off
on the socioeconomic line - that do much more than meet-cute. Not to
mention, if you were to take the romantic story out of the film, there
would still be a wealth of events and situational drama to focus on.
How many romantic comedies can you say that about? Daddy's Little Girls
isn't urban cinema's finest, with other dramas like Spike Lee's She's
Gotta Have It and John Singleton's Baby Boy passing this one right by
in terms of quality and story. Yet Perry pulls no punches and doesn't
have any idiotic distractions in terms of characters, melodrama, or
subplots. He's focused and gridlocked on Monty and his relationship
with Julia and his three daughters, which is how the film should be.
This is a simple story with emotions that are memorable and content
that's surprisingly favorable and well-handled.

Starring: Idris Elba and Gabrielle Union. Directed by: Tyler Perry.
