
I saw this movie with my 2 kids -- ages 3 and 9. Although I can't say I
cared for it much, they LOVED it. I've never seen my daughter (the 3
year old) laugh so much or sit so still at a movie.

As a grumpy adult, I couldn't ignore the irrational plot line. My kids
could care less, and they adored the clever funny dialogue and the
silly slapstick comedy.

I'd strongly recommend that adults stay away. I'd also strongly
recommend that anyone with kids go see it.

My rating of 8 is an average. I give it a 4, but both kids give it a
10. That averages out to an 8.
<|_=00=_|>
A couple of days ago I took my 11 and 6 year old grandsons to see this
movie in Oceanside, California. Suffice it to say that I did NOT decide
to go jump off the nearby Oceanside Pier when the film was over. Sure,
it's no world-beater. On the other hand, I was somewhat surprised that
the movie was better than I had expected.

Probably most of the criticisms one can read in the other reviews have
merit. But over all "Aliens in the Attic" is far from the worst kids
movie you have ever seen. Obvious, yes, but enjoyable for the little
ones. I'll say this, I took these same grandkids to see "Daddy Day
Camp" when it was out and I was completely disgusted and disappointed
by that turkey. "Aliens in the Attic" is a couple of notches above that
one. At least there are no exploding outhouses or questionable values
modeled by adult characters.

No doubt taking little kids to the zoo or going for a walk in the woods
would be better for little kids, but if you get stuck for something to
do this summer you should not feel hesitant to take them to this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a mom with four children. My one-year-old didn't go with us, but
my five-year-old, ten-year-old, and twelve-year-old went with me to see
this movie. I must say it was refreshing to see a children's movie that
was actually suitable for children to watch. We thought certain scenes
were very cute and funny, there was no foul language, and my children
enjoyed this film. It is sad that so many other movies get attention
when this one is entertaining and clean. I would recommend it and think
it is better than a lot of other summer films we have seen. On a scale
of one to ten, I would probably give it a seven. That is an honest
evaluation based on action, entertainment, humor, and story line.
Overall, not a bad movie at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Stuart Pearson (Kevin Nealon) heads with his family to spend a summer
vacation in Creek Landing, Michigan, with his brother Nathan Pearson
(Andy Richter) and his sons and their mother Rose (Doris Roberts) in an
old lake house they had rented. When the television has trouble with
the image, Stuart's son Tom (Carter Jenkins) and the arrogant boyfriend
of his sister Ricky Dillman (Robert Hoffman) go to the attic and then
to the roof, where Tom meets his cousin Jake (Austin Butler) and they
find the antenna dish totally destroyed. Sooner they discover four
alien invaders that are preparing an invasion of the Earth that use a
mind control weapon that only affects adults and they lock the quartet
in the attic. Now they need to a find a way to force the adults to
leave the house and discover the vulnerability of the invaders to plot
a defense plan to save our planet.

"Aliens in the Attack" is an underrated and funny family entertainment.
I laughed a lot with many moments of this enjoyable story, especially
with Robert Hoffman that is hilarious when the kids decide to get even
with him using the alien control. The CGI is also good, and Sparks is
really a sweet character. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Pequenos Invasores" ("Little Invaders")
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Aliens in the Attic with a bit of distrust,in sight of
all the modern family films which are full of special effects,whose
screenplays completely lack of any energy or intelligence and whose
direction is completely mercenary.However,during the first minutes of
Aliens in the Attic,my bad expectations started to disappear because
the chemistry between the actors was good and the humor was a bit above
the standard of what we are accustomed to see on this kind of
film.Besides,during those first minutes,I dared to think that this
movie was going to capture the spirit and tone of films like
Gremlins,Critters or Small Soldiers,where a group of kids and teenagers
also used their intelligence and ability in order to fight against
creatures with doubtful intentions.Although Aliens in the Attic did not
reach the heights of the previously mentioned movies,I cannot deny it
entertained me.

The cast from this film was very well selected.Kevin Nealon and Andy
Richter are funny in their roles,while Tim Meadows is credible and very
enthusiastic.From the young actors,I think the best one was Robert
Hoffman as a teenager who is kidnapped by the aliens.The screenplay
from this movie has various fails,like for example,the lack of logic in
its premise (if aliens can control people,why did they not start with
someone who is powerful,instead of an anonymous family?),but it tells
the story at a speed which makes Aliens in the Attic impossible to be
boring.However,although it never bores,the film looses some energy near
the ending,where director John Schultz generates a forced suspense,at
the same time the story brings its obligatory message.

In spite of its various fails,I cannot deny I had a good time watching
Aliens in the Attic,so I think this film deserves a recommendation as a
good family entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be mislead by the overall rating, we found this movie very
entertaining when in needed of some light entertainment for the
evening! 

Yes the story is run of the mill seen before stuff but it was well put
together and flowed well enough, it certainly took me back to my
childhood and the weekly trip to the video shop with my dad to rent a
family film for the night, and can only imagine it would be great for
kids (unfortunately ours is not old enough yet to appreciate anything
other than tellytubies). 

I definitely put it up with all the good old 80's classics like
goonies, back to the future etc, as a no brains good old adventure...
can also recommend spiderwick chronicles as a similar fantasy adventure
film!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm in my twenties, and I loved this film. If you look at the title and
the cover and know for certain you won't like it, then you probably
won't. But if you think you might, then I'd recommend giving it a try,
because I was a little unsure but I thoroughly enjoyed it.

The plot is pretty simple: while vacationing in a large rental house
over the Fourth of July holiday, the Pearson family is forced to stop
an advance team of four aliens from bringing eternal enslavement and/or
instantaneous death to the human race. The alien technology allows them
to control the adults (leading to a lot of slapstick comedy, some of
which will be funny to adults, but all of which the kids will enjoy),
so it's up to our hero Tom (17 years old or thereabouts), his siblings
and his cousins to stop them.

I thought the acting was quite decent. Carter Jenkins brings a lot of
good energy to Tom, who is very likable and sympathetic. All of the
kids do a great job, and the voice talents behind the aliens bring a
lot of personality to those characters in only a few scenes. Thomas
Haden Church as Tazer really stood out to me and J.K. Simmons is always
fantastic.

The messages I came out of it with were 1) family is cool, 2) fishing
can be just as fun as video games, and 3) being different is OK, and
being smart is OK. Ashley Tisdale's Bethany doesn't start out as a
particularly sympathetic character, especially when taken with her
sleazy boyfriend, but she soon shows herself to be a good role model,
demanding that her boyfriend respect her and her family.

I laughed plenty Â– even the jokes which were easy or cheap didn't make
me groan or roll my eyes.

I would definitely let my kids watch this movie. Not only do I approve
of the general morals espoused by the film, but they'll almost
certainly enjoy it. And, except for believing Grandma had gotten into
the Pinot Grigio, Miss Tisdale bouncing around in a skimpy bikini, and
a scene of Bethany and her boyfriend putting lotion on each other
including a reference to "second base", the film is totally clean. And
even those things are hardly worth mentioning.

It's not supposed to be smart, it's supposed to be fun. And it's
targeted towards kids. I wouldn't recommend it to everyone I know, but
I know a couple of people who would definitely enjoy it, so don't
discount it so quickly based on other reviews if you think it might be
your kind of movie.
<|_=00=_|>
You really have to find your inner child, when you watch this. And
really, why would you watch this expecting anything else then a silly
little comedy? It delivers on that premise and has either good actors
to support some crazy humor (I forgot her name, but one of the "Golden
Girls") or some crazy idea (a device that ... well you see, if you
watch the movie)! 

Maybe the voice of reason, should prevent me from a 6/10 rating and
rather give it a 4 or 5. But I actually liked the movie and the charm
it developed. The fun, that the cast and crew obviously had, while
shooting the movie, translates onto the screen. Sometimes you really
need something really silly, to enjoy ... this one definitely fits the
bill! (and kids will love it ;o) )
<|_=00=_|>
As my title implies, most children will find this film enjoyable. I
went to see it with my younger brother and he loved it. Does "Aliens in
the Attic" have content the parents would enjoy? Not really, and no it
doesn't have the depth of humour that Pixar or the older Disney films
have. It's just a fun kids comedy with plenty of slapstick to keep them
amused throughout.

Overall, this movie was decently acted, with some very funny moments
(and I'll admit I laughed a few times myself). The CGI aliens are
pretty poorly done unfortunately and the characters are nothing new;
however, if you see this film for what it is- mindless entertainment-
you just might enjoy it. At the very least, the children will.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't believe the mean comments by some of the other people posted
here. Every once in a while its good to see a film that makes you feel
like a kid again. I think thats called appealing to your inner child.
Yes this movie doesn't have a believable story or great special
effects, but come on folks. I saw this film today and the kids in the
theater were laughing and having a ball. It appeals to them because in
the movie that kids are the heroes SPOILER ALERT who stop the aliens,
outsmart the adults and save the world. I thought it was so cute in the
film how that little girl bonded with one of the aliens. It was sad
when they said goodbye, a real tearjerker. I also enjoyed the slapstick
in the film especially with the arrogant jock, it was nice seeing him
humbled like that. Kevin Nealon, who used to be on Saturday Night Live,
has a good part in this as a well meaning but dorky father. I also
wanted to mention the noted character actress Doris Roberts who plays
the grandmother, she was on my parent's favorite show Everybody Loves
Raymond. There is a scene in this film where the aliens possess her and
she turns into a superhero and kicks butt. It is the single funniest
scene I have witnessed in a film this entire year. I thought I would
fall out of my seat! I'll bet Ms. Roberts had a ball making this film.
I'm glad I went to see this film and highly recommend it. It wont win
any Golden Globes or Oscars and the American Film Institute will never
consider it a classic but it will make you laugh and feel good after
the credits roll, isn't that why we go to the movies?
