
I saw a preview of this film with kids 6, 7 and 12. We are a dog-loving
family, so perhaps we were biased to enjoy the film. That said, we were
split on our review. The adults and 12 year old were bored; the two
youngsters were thrilled! Hence the score of 6.

Overall, this was a harmless movie featuring a few humans and many
trained dogs. It was sugary and nice - there was no real threat
anywhere in the film of something bad happening (thus it is kid-safe
for very young kids). And they've reduced the idea of foster homes down
to a concocted McNugget of a concept. My younger kids didn't even
follow that theme at all.

What they did follow, and what I found most redeeming, were the
numerous cutesy dog tricks and toys. The creators of the film did a
nice job inventing clever ways to mechanize the caring for dogs (think
the breakfast scene in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang). That was fun. And the
dogs were cute.

For me the drawbacks were these: Slow start, unfunny 'comic' characters
- like the foster parents and dog catchers, and a lame plot.

But ultimately - we had a nice outing, and you will too. And you will
emerge from the film MORE likely to go get a dog of your own.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw a preview of Hotel For Dogs with my wife and kids (4&7 year old
boys) last weekend and I have to say we all thoroughly enjoyed this
film. In fact I would have to say it is the best live-action kids film
I've seen in years. Sure, as an adult you'll be able to see predictable
plot devices coming at you from around every corner, but the movie is
so likable, well acted and well directed that you just don't care.
There are holes in the story and the whole movie is one big
implausibility but it just doesn't matter. Hotel for Dogs will be the
first big hit of 2009. It's a great family film that 4-12 year olds are
just going to eat up.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie opening night. Took 5 kids and my wife and sis-in-law.
all of us enjoyed it. very clean. enjoyable. hilarious at times and
well written.

I normally hate child actors, but for once i was not annoyed. Emma
Roberts is gorgeous. at 23, she looks young, but has moments in which
she gives a glimpse of wisdom. her younger brother in the movie was
very tolerable, and in fact delivered some excellent subtlety. neither
over acted.

the social worker couple were very good while Lisa kudrow continues to
amaze me that she even has a career. OK, now the part that matters: the
dogs were hilarious, likable, and intriguing. the plot was very well
done and for the first time in years, i am intrigued and eagerly
anticipating the "making of" documentary on the DVD. excellent
direction, pacing, and scripting.
<|_=00=_|>
Hotel for Dogs plays it very safe and sticks to a tried-and-true
children's movie formula. For a great many viewers the best thing about
the film will be the cute and cuddly dogs that perform various tricks 
their training is easily more impressive than the humdrum story, based
on a hopefully more consequential Lois Duncan book. The dialogue lacks
flair, the acting is expectedly simple, and the characters provide only
modest entertainment in comparison to their canine costars. Adults will
probably find it difficult to withstand the sickeningly sweet
conclusion or the impossibly artificial mechanics behind the inner
workings of the dog hotel, but the target audience is likely to be
pleased.

16-year-old Andi (Emma Roberts) and her 11-year-old brother Bruce (Jake
Austin) have bounced back and forth between orphanages and foster
parents (five in the last three years) without finding comfort or
satisfaction. Bernie (Don Cheadle), the kindly social worker who
governs their placements tries to reason with the children, who aren't
content with their newest family of quiver-inducing wannabe rock stars
(Lisa Kudrow and Kevin Dillon) who conduct obnoxious band practice in
their apartment nonstop, and compulsively lock up the cupboards and
cabinets in their home. The brother and sister team have also been
secretly keeping a pet dog, Friday, who uses automated gadgets
constructed by the mechanically inclined Bruce to get food and to
remain hidden.

Before school starts up, the trouble making duo (they get money for dog
food by pawning fraudulent goods) comes across an abandoned hotel with
several canine occupants. Deciding to look after their newfound family
of dogs, Andi and Bruce join forces with two employees from the nearby
pet store (Johnny Simmons and Kyla Pratt) along with nosey Mark (Troy
Gentile), to build an elaborate self-maintained shelter for unwanted,
abandoned and stray dogs. Initially it seems they've bitten off more
than they can chew, especially when cruel dog pound troops, nagging
foster parents and pesky cops begin to take notice of the incredibly
large gathering of dogs at the dilapidated old building.

The target audience probably won't be asking the questions that popped
into my mind: How can an 11-year-old kid build such intricate
mechanical contraptions? Is it really that easy to train dozens of dogs
to use said electrical gadgets? Is it simply luck that none of the dogs
need medical attention? Is it really okay for children to commit crimes
such as breaking and entering, trespassing, and even assault, as long
as it's done with the intent of saving stray animals? Clearly this film
wasn't designed for me, but the trite dialogue (Kevin Dillon mutters
the stale line, "We're in deep doo doo," after falling into an enormous
animal waste bin), the predictability of Bernie's role, the sappy
ending and the Kill Bill music montage (Tomoyasu Hotei's instantly
recognizable "Battle Without Honor or Humanity") are huge distractions
 especially when one just wants to see some adorable dogs running
amok.Evren Buyruk,Tx
<|_=00=_|>
Usually, I don't like films which have real dogs in them. But, Hotel
For Dogs came as a real surprise to me. Of course, the plot is
predictable, but the actors & the adorable dogs brought this movie some
heart. I don't understand the low rating. This movie was made for kids,
not for adults, so you shouldn't have expected anything more than the
predictable dialogues & happy ending.

Andi (Emma Roberts) & Bruce (Jake. T. Austin) are two siblings who have
lost their parents & are living in foster homes & the adults in that
home are very annoying. One day their dog, Friday goes into an
abandoned old hotel & it spends the night there. Somehow, the kids want
a real family & they start rescuing dogs from all over the place to
help the dogs avoid the pound with the help of their friends, Dave,
Heather & Mark. They get into all kinds of trouble with the law.

I was babysitting the other day & my little cousin wanted to watch this
as soon as he heard it had dogs in them (he's 8 & very cute) & so I had
to watch it along with him as no one else wanted to spend time on this
with him & I like him (he has two elder sisters & they wouldn't see
this, nor babysit him). This is a very fun family film. The acting was
good, the dogs were awesome & the contraptions to help the dogs enjoy
was cool. Seeing this as he enjoyed really made it good for me. The
plot had lot of holes in it; like where did they get the money to feed
so many dogs when they couldn't even pay for food for their first dog?
And how could they build the hotel for the dogs without the owner's
permission & is it really OK to break the law as long as you do it for
the cute dogs? This is a kids fantasy after all & I let go of these
problems.

Lisa Kudrow (from the awesome show 'Friends') really didn't do much in
this. Then again, the kids & dogs are the main attraction. Emma Roberts
is a girl I loved in Nancy Drew (I was a huge fan of Hardy Boys & Nancy
Drew during my teens, still am I suppose) & here also I liked her. The
other kids were also OK. I'm a huge fan of Prison Break & did anyone
notice Mark was eerily similar with his dialogue delivery & personality
to a character in the TV show? If he is not his son, then its weird.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
A brother and sister live with their umpteenth set of foster parents.
They hide their pet - a small dog - because the foster parents don't
want to know about it. When the dog runs away they follow it and find
their way into an old abandoned building. To their surprise it is not
completely abandoned but actually lived in by a number of dogs. Soon
after that an idea comes to life.

And from there the story rolls on in a typical Disney style children's
film where evil is evil and good is good and anything else is easily
forgotten. As as adult I wasn't overly impressed with the film but the
kid I took to see it loved it - and that's good. The target audience
for the film must be kids in the age range 6 to 12 or so. The things
that happen are fun to watch (at least the very most of the time) and
although the acting capabilities of the younger players leaves
something to be desired it is not bad enough to turn the film into a
complete waste of tape.

All in all, it features a good number of laughs, a few tear drops and
surely a lot of hard work - and a cast that is clearly liking to play
the roles they were cast for.

5 out of 10 dogs barking in the night
<|_=00=_|>
Despite how I did like Hotel for dogs,the human characters were
boring.I only liked Andi(Emma Roberts)because she was smart and likable
in a mature way,but that was it. The dogs were the show stealers
because the scenes with the trick performing and how they lived in a
hotel were clever and well performed. What I have gotton tired of is
the potty humour because it's been done in so many kids films before
that I find it gross and unfunny(for example,a scene with the parents
that fell into a dumpster with dog poo by saying "we're in deep doo
doo.").

6 stars for the dogs and the female character Andi,but the rest were a
waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm obsessed with these dogs. They seriously are so fun and adorable
and I loved seeing this movie. I went and saw it with my cousin and she
was freaking out...couldn't wait to go see it and she loved every
second of it. Friday, the main dog, was her favorite. Anytime he did
something fiesty she would laugh hysterically. I loved the bulldog,
cooper. The scene where he has a vending machine full of old shoes is
genius. I really liked all the smart and quirky inventions that were
used. This was a great family film...really honest, fun, enjoyable and
totally entertaining. I would definitely recommend this film to someone
who wants an easy, carefree, good time!
<|_=00=_|>
Hotel for Dogs plays it very safe and sticks to a tried-and-true
children's movie formula. For a great many viewers the best thing about
the film will be the cute and cuddly dogs that perform various tricks 
their training is easily more impressive than the humdrum story, based
on a hopefully more consequential Lois Duncan book. The dialogue lacks
flair, the acting is expectedly simple, and the characters provide only
modest entertainment in comparison to their canine costars. Adults will
probably find it difficult to withstand the sickeningly sweet
conclusion or the impossibly artificial mechanics behind the inner
workings of the dog hotel, but the target audience is likely to be
pleased. 

16-year-old Andi (Emma Roberts) and her 11-year-old brother Bruce (Jake
Austin) have bounced back and forth between orphanages and foster
parents (five in the last three years) without finding comfort or
satisfaction. Bernie (Don Cheadle), the kindly social worker who
governs their placements tries to reason with the children, who aren't
content with their newest family of quiver-inducing wannabe rockstars
(Lisa Kudrow and Kevin Dillon) who conduct obnoxious band practice in
their apartment nonstop, and compulsively lock up the cupboards and
cabinets in their home. The brother and sister team have also been
secretly keeping a pet dog, Friday, who uses automated gadgets
constructed by the mechanically inclined Bruce to get food and to
remain hidden.

Before school starts up, the troublemaking duo (they get money for dog
food by pawning fraudulent goods) comes across an abandoned hotel with
several canine occupants. Deciding to look after their newfound family
of dogs, Andi and Bruce join forces with two employees from the nearby
pet store (Johnny Simmons and Kyla Pratt) along with nosey Mark (Troy
Gentile), to build an elaborate self-maintained shelter for unwanted,
abandoned and stray dogs. Initially it seems they've bitten off more
than they can chew, especially when cruel dog pound troops, nagging
foster parents and pesky cops begin to take notice of the incredibly
large gathering of dogs at the dilapidated old building. 

The target audience probably won't be asking the questions that popped
into my mind: How can an 11-year-old kid build such intricate
mechanical contraptions? Is it really that easy to train dozens of dogs
to use said electrical gadgets? Is it simply luck that none of the dogs
need medical attention? Is it really okay for children to commit crimes
such as breaking and entering, trespassing, and even assault, as long
as it's done with the intent of saving stray animals? Clearly this film
wasn't designed for me, but the trite dialogue (Kevin Dillon mutters
the stale line, "We're in deep doo doo," after falling into an enormous
animal waste bin), the predictability of Bernie's role, the sappy
ending and the Kill Bill music montage (Tomoyasu Hotei's instantly
recognizable "Battle Without Honor or Humanity") are huge distractions
 especially when one just wants to see some adorable dogs running
amok. 

- Mike Massie
<|_=00=_|>
Hotel for Dogs is strictly a fairy tale... Fun for the wee ones and
those who need an escape. The story plods along like a ship in a storm,
bouncing here and there with little regard for rationale or
plausibility. Don Cheadle does a fine job playing the only reasonable
character in the mix, with Emma Roberts and Jake Austin cute (no, too
cute) as our main protagonists. Sad to see Lisa Kudrow, Kevin Dillon,
and a host of others as contrived stereotypes with less personality
than the dogs, who really are the stars of this thing. First time
director Thor Freudenthal plays it safe with the story; You can't go
wrong with so many talented canines in the mix! My 5 and 7 year old
children loved it, while my 11 year old niece gave it "2.5
stars"...Same here.
