
"You Kill Me" is as dark a comedy as you can get. It may also be the
first artistically successful romantic comedy noir. Directed by John
Dahl (best known for his indie-noirs "Red Rock West" and "The Last
Seduction" and the underrated killer trucker flick "Joyride"), the film
depicts a hit man (Ben Kingsley-deep in character) forced into
Alcoholics Anonymous by his "family" because his drinking has been
affecting his ability to kill people. Shipped off to San Franscisco to
start his 12 Steps, he picks up a part-time gig at a funeral home and
meets a sassy single woman with "boundary issues" (Tea Leoni-hilarious)
after her step-dad dies and proceeds to start an unconventional romance
with her while struggling to stay on the wagon and learn how to kill
again.

The film starts off very low key, and Dahl keeps such a consistently
dark tone it's hard to adjust to the cadence. As good as Kingsley is
here, the show really belongs to Leoni. When she finally arrives on the
scene, the film reaches a level of hilarity you weren't expecting. Her
facial expressions, comic timing, and interplay with Kingsley as she
learns the truth about his past are pure gold. Leoni has had her fair
share of commercial successes ("Bad Boys," "Deep Impact," "The Family
Man", and "Jurassic Park III") but it's in this type of offbeat
low-budget comedy where she really shines. She was dynamite in
"Flirting with Disaster" and was the best foil for Woody Allen since
Diane Keaton in the otherwise forgettable "Hollywood Ending." Here all
her comic charms are on display, and she proves that at the age of 40,
she is aging not only gracefully and naturally, but with all her
sexiness and innate talents in tact.

While the film goes through the predictable motions in its final act,
it's the gooey goodness of the middle portion (especially one
laugh-out-loud montage of Leoni helping Kingsley train for his return
to "work") that will leave a smile on your face, with Leoni's
luminosity as a comedic actress scorched into your mind.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has been advertised as a thriller. The pacing of this film is
very slow and much too slow to be classified as a thriller. If you
watch this expecting a movie full of action and suspense you will be
disappointed.

Here's what's good about this film. All the talent that has been
brought to this project has been first rate. The writing is excellent.
All the actors down to the very minor ones nail their characters and
deliver superb believable performances. The cinematography, sound and
other technical elements are 'invisible,' which means that those
aspects of the film have been done flawlessly.

The movie is very funny with many laughs. The comedy emerges from the
situations as everyone in the film plays it straight as if it were a
drama.

It takes a very skilled director to pull off this type of story
successfully. Minor flaws can make it not work. This film works.

I think if you drop your fast paced thriller expectations for this film
you will find it extremely enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood loves assassins. You can't go more than a few weeks without a
new hit-man movie hitting (sorry) the multiplexes. Hell, later this
year, there's a movie coming out literally called "Hitman".

The new trend seems to be putting comedic twists on the assassin film.
I guess we can thank Tarantino for that. Within the past few years,
stuff like "Mr.& Mrs. Smith", "The Whole Nine Yards", "The Matador",
"Grosse Pointe Blank", and "Lucky Number Slevin" gave us clever little
plays on the assassin genre. If you're at all familiar with those
films, you'll feel right at home with "You Kill Me".

Ben Kingsley plays Frank Falenczyk, a hit-man for the Polish Mob out of
Buffalo, New York. Frank's an alcoholic, and recently it's been
affecting his work. As a result, his superiors send him to San
Francisco to attend Alcoholics Anonymous until he can sober up.

The movie doesn't win any points for originality, but it does have a
lot to offer. Kingsley puts on a capable, sympathetic show - pretty
impressive for a guy who spends the majority of the film getting
hammered. Téa Leoni does well enough as the obligatory love interest.
The age difference took a little getting used to. Dennis Farina and
Philip Baker Hall are a treat to watch playing essentially the same
roles they've been playing forever. Hall is the soft spoken head of the
Polish Mob Family, while Farina is the loudmouth villain heading up the
Italians. Bill Pullman also has a small role as a sleazy real estate
agent. Anyone who's seen "Lucky Numbers" knows that Pullman has a
talent for quirky lowlifes, and he shines here.

This is a very light movie. It won't blow you away in any regards, but
it is a solid 90 minutes of easy entertainment. The script is
essentially Frank's struggle to fight his habit. We also get a light
love story and a touch of crime thriller. It's a strange juggling act,
but Kingsley and director John Dahl pull it off. Don't get discouraged
by the bland name. With just enough laughs, drama, and action  this is
a small movie than just about anybody can have fun with.
<|_=00=_|>
Far from perfect its absolutely charming with a super cast headed by
Ben Kingsley as a hit-man with a drinking problem. Sent from Buffalo to
San Fransisco to dry out when he blows a hit, Kingsley attempts to get
his life in order.

Funny, touching and atypical, no one is really a cliché. As I said its
not perfect, it meanders a bit too much and the mob stuff is a bit worn
but its still a charming film. I think the whole things works thanks to
the across the board excellent performances. First and foremost is Ben
Kingsley who once again proves himself to be one of the finest comedic
actors working today.

This is one of those movies you like with your heart more than with
your head. This is one to see and share with as many people as you can
force into seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Quite uneven and rather heavy treatment of some topics meant to be
amusing, but still, a pleasant change of pace from slasher or crasher
movies. Kingsley is a drunken mobster somewhat unconvincingly told to
attend AA by his godfather or boss or whatever.

In the end, this is the sort of pleasing yet non-filling confection of
a movie which is suitable for couple to go to without compromise - or
perhaps it's the perfect compromise.

It has enough guys running around with firearms to suit the men. It has
Tea Leoni as a strange beautiful woman so there's some romance for the
women. It has Ben Kingsley who looks 40 years older than Leoni involved
in a romance with her which should satisfy something in most people,
even if I'm unsure what.

Like most movies today, this one demands a huge suspension of disbelief
not only about the gangster snow plow wars of Buffalo, but why Chinese
want in on a piece of that action, how mobsters care for each other and
if some homely old grunt can really get and hold a very hot Hollywood
star girl.

Still, I'll take it over the current clash or crash offerings.
<|_=00=_|>
This little dark comedy is made a real treat by the professional,
understated acting by all of its stars and direction that has produced
pure entertainment rather than a silly mess.

The plot of the film couldn't be any more far-fetched. Frank Falenczyk,
a hit man for a low-level crime family in Albany, New York, is not
performing well because he has an alcohol problem. He is sent to kill
the boss of a crime group who is muscling in on the territory. Instead
of doing his job, he passes out from drink in his car while waiting.
What follows is probably the weirdest family intervention scene ever
filmed in which Frank's boss and other members of the crime family tell
him that he must go to San Francisco to seek rehabilitation.

Frank is packed off to San Francisco, but it is clear his heart is not
into the rehabilitation idea for his first two purchases are a gun and
a bottle of vodka. He goes to an AA meeting and views the whole process
with disdain. After leaving the meeting early, he is approached by Dave
the realtor who arranged for Frank's apartment and a job as an
undertaker's assistant. Dave has some sort of connection with Albany,
and Frank is told in no uncertain terms that this is his last chance.
Dave assures Frank that he will be reporting regularly to the head of
the crime family back East.

With no other choice, Frank starts going to the meetings where he meets
Tom. Tom is a gay toll booth attendant at the Golden Gate Bridge who is
wise to the ways of AA. One of the elements that impressed me about the
script of this film is how Tom's character is handled. Yes, he is gay,
but there is no gay angst associated with his character, and there no
Gay Tom subplot. Tom is just a normal guy who just happens to be gay -
a refreshing change to the way most gay characters are dealt with in
films.

Laurel shows up at the funeral parlor with a pair of bowling shoes for
her dead stepfather, and Frank is immediately attracted as it is clear
that she is no shrinking violet when it comes to the harsher realities
of life. They begin dating.

Putting all of these elements together could have easily produced an
over-the-top mess of absurdity, but You Kill Me is not. Instead - as
alluded to regarding the character of Tom - it is a perfect blend of
excellent acting and subtle direction that produces unadulterated
entertainment.

The cast is headed by Ben Kingsley playing Frank, and Kingsley gives us
a man we can believe can murder in cold blood, yet possess the
weaknesses of a man addicted to alcohol and smitten by a sassy woman.

As for that sassy woman, Téa Leoni is perfect in the part. Her voice
and facial expressions convey worlds of irony mixed with amazement when
it comes to her character's relationship with a killer.

Luke Wilson gives a wonderfully understated performance as Tom. Dave is
played to his quirky best by Bill Pullman, and the respective leaders
of the "good" and "bad" crime families are given credible umph by
Philip Baker Hall and Dennis Farina.

Add numerous other distinctive character types revolving around these
main characters and tons of incredibly witty lines delivered by Frank
and his friends, and you have an extremely entertaining - although very
dark - comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
"You Kill Me" has a raw, edgy feel that maintains a nice sense of
tension throughout the movie keeping the audience off balance. This
comedy drama, somewhat dark movie has great subtle wit and humor
sparkled throughout the movie as well as a sensitive treatment and
paradox of substance abuse AA treatment. Bill Pullman, surprisingly
gets to expand his usual character into a more colorful display while
Ben Kingsley is his usual competent self. Tea Leoni who also is an
executive producer gets to go along for the ride. This movie continues
the increasingly smooth blend of comedy-drama into the societal topics
of interest. A fun, creative, touching entertainment from IFC films.
Eight out Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Ben Kingsley plays a drunk hit man. Worst of all his drunkenness
accounts for a hit going awry - he sleeps through it, stoned - so he's
shipped off to San Francisco to get dry. There he comes under the
tutelage of Bill Pullman who puts him into AA and a job as an
undertaker's assistant ("right up your alley"). Initially refusing to
be directed he succumbs when he's made an offer he can't refuse. Do it
or you know what! Not that Pullman can pull that off. He's a frumpy
mess of a guy, connected to the mob, and with as much testosterone as a
gelding.

Tea Leoni shows up while he's doing the make up on a corpse, her much
despised step father, with some bowling shoes to deck him up in. They
turn out to be too small (she'd stolen them from a bowling alley), and
Kingsley offers to "break some toes" to make them fit. A relationship
has sown it's first seeds. Kingsley's straight on demeanor interests
Leoni, who's burnt out on men, wary and cold. What she has going for
her though is humor laced with acid. Reluctantly she allows Kingsley to
maneuver her into seeing him, and she edges into the relationship.

Soon enough she finds out she's dating not only a drunk (reforming at
times) but a hit man. This she discovers in one of the movies best
scenes (Leoni's slow double takes are priceless!) when Kingsley
explains to an enthralled AA meeting what he does for a living, and how
alcohol is stopping him from doing it. By this time we are so smitten
by the movie that we root for him to be dry long enough so he can get
back to his job! 

This is a wonderful vehicle for Tea Leoni's dry, dead pan, ironic
delivery. As she produced it I have little doubt she either had a hand
in the script or had shopped around for one to suit her style. I was
hesitant to see this simply because I had confused her recent
characters (Jurassic park 3, Spanglish) as being her: shrill, neurotic,
psychologically toxic. She's not playing a nice character here either,
but she's dropped the twitchy mannerisms, and gone back to the work she
did on TV that brought her to fame. Quirky, yes, but drop dead
funny!Keen, sharp and scintillating with her tongue.

Kingsley is good, but dozens of actors could have pulled this off as
well. Pullman is great, his preppy looks smooshed behind coke bottle
glasses, and large old suits that make him look weak and decadent. But
the movie belongs to Leoni!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie stars Ben Kingsley as Frank, a hit man for some Russian
mobsters based out of Buffalo. He is also a raging alcoholic, and this
has caused his job performance to decline. After he falls asleep in his
car during a would-be hit, his mob boss uncle sends him to San
Francisco, where he is to attend AA meetings and get a job as a
mortician's assistant. If you're thinking that this makes absolutely no
sense, you're not alone.

It gets worse. Well, it actually gets better, but not before getting
much, much worse. Frank suddenly becomes a master mortician in spite of
a complete lack of training, but his reactions with the people in the
funeral home and the AA meetings are interesting. The viewer starts to
root for him as they notice positive changes in his life. Luke Wilson
is a welcome addition as Frank's sponsor, although he is given almost
nothing to do (his character does tell us he is gay, but this ends up
having no significance whatsoever). The movie plunges headlong into
idiocy with the introduction of the Tea Leoni character. She is
completely unrealistic, and her role as a love interest to Frank
flounders, as the two actors have no chemistry together. Around the
time she comes into the picture, Frank becomes much less engrossing as
a character. His characterization is seemingly random; there is no
consistency in his behavior. The comedy is low-key and only
intermittently funny, especially disappointing considering the comedic
pedigree of the cast.

Problems abound in this one. Kingsley's accent is terrible and
inconsistent. It alternates between Italian, Russian, and Hispanic.
Throughout the course of the movie, Frank tells numerous people he is a
hit man (including an entire AA group), but nobody seems to care, or
wants to do anything about it. The movie relies on cliché scenes to
carry it through its final act, most notably when Leoni's insufferable
character chases Frank down at the airport, just when he is about to
board a flight back to Buffalo.

Though it has a strong premise and an interesting first half-hour, the
movie quickly becomes a total disaster and devolves into complete
nonsense. At the end of the film, Frank celebrates one year of
sobriety. I hope to celebrate many, many years of not having seen "You
Kill Me". 

My Grade: D+
<|_=00=_|>
From the screenwriters of the Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the
Witch, and the Wardrobe comes the R-rated black comedy You Kill Me.
It's an odd pairing, but at least you can say these guys have range. To
helm this film, about a hit-man whose drinking problem has caused
sloppiness and perhaps the demise of his Polish gang in Buffalo, we
have John Dahl. I am a huge fan of Rounders, so I was hoping for some
of the same here, with a dramatic arc that worked and made sense
intelligently, but also bringing the laughs that the trailer promised.
Thankfully this film doesn't disappoint. Yes, there are some moments of
disbelief, but the dry, straight-laced delivery of everything else
makes up for the leaps in logic that would otherwise eat at me for the
duration. While not laugh-out-loud funny, Dahl has put together a nice
slow burning comedy that allows its characters to live and breathe
realistically and evolve in a somewhat believable manner.

Our aforementioned hit-man is played brilliantly by Ben Kingsley. I
remember when I used to look at him as just Ghandi, but after the
diverse catalog of films he has done recently, I've realized that he
isn't afraid to branch out into darker fare. His role here has a lot
going for it in comedic termshe is an alcoholic, a loner that kills
for money, and a resident of the arctic pole of Buffalo. Put all that
together and you can think of a few funny situations for him to get
into. To the filmmakers' credit, though, we never really get any of
that except for the opening "job." When Kingsley's Frank sleeps through
the one big job he is relied on to do, everything falls apart. What
happens next is his journey to sobriety and friendship/love to pull him
through to an understanding about what he really is living for. What
worked for a film like The Matador couldn't be as effective here. Frank
isn't having a nervous breakdown or losing his cool, he is off the job
seeking help so that he can go back on the payroll. We don't need him
to drunkenly wave a loaded gun at people, the comedy instead comes from
his fish-out-of-water situation, being a cold-hearted killer trying to
warm up to recovering alcoholics and a community he is not used to
being sober around.

Kingsley definitely plays the role to perfection, never faltering from
his matter-of-fact tone or takes no crap attitude. Everything out of
his mouth is carefully orchestrated and he is not one to waste his own
or others' time. This fact makes some scenes hilarious because of the
reactions from those he is speaking to. When he speaks from the heart
and seriously, while sprinkling in his own experiences murdering
people, during AA meetings, the utter silence and occasional Amen from
the audience is gold. Besides his unfaltering demeanor and his sardonic
sarcasm, it is when he plays off of love interest Téa Leoni when some
of the best laughs occur. These two have a wonderful rapport and when
they go at each other rapid fire, with one quip/comeback after another,
you'd think it was all ad-libbedthe timing is that good. Leoni has
been surprising me lately with her career. I don't know why I used to
think she was annoying, but recently having seen films like House of D
and her early work in Flirting With Disaster, I realize that she is
good at both the dramatic and the comedic.

The who's who of supporting players also does a nice job anchoring the
story. Luke Wilson seems to really just be playing himself, but the
laidback friend is what is needed for the role. Philip Baker Hall and
Dennis Farina show how it's done as two rival mob bosses in Buffalo,
(yes, I said mob bosses in Buffalo, I'm constantly scared for my life
when walking around downtown at night). Their storyline is handled well
and counteracts the subtle humor going on at rehab in San Francisco
with some tense moments trying to keep the Polish afloat at the hands
of the ever increasing Irish crew. Mention is also needed for Bill
Pullman who has been making some good choices of late in small
supporting roles. His self-absorbed real estate agent is entertaining
because his ego won't let him be intimidated by the killer he is
conversing with.

The laughs may not come over and over again, but when they do it's
smartly and appropriately. The fact that everyone in San Fran who hears
Kingsley is a hit-man just accept it like someone saying they washed
their clothes that morning is a bit rough to get by, but really it
doesn't matter in terms of plot progression. The writers also try to
distill the problem with Frank saying how it's Alcoholics "Anonymous,"
which brings a smile to your face for nothing more than the corniness
of the line. I also don't know how perfect placing the movie in Buffalo
was. It seems the writers needed a cold, drinking town up north and our
wonderful home of Buffalo was the first to come to their heads. When
was the last time you heard about the Irish and Polish mob going to war
while the Greeks stood back to see who came out on top? Yeah, that's
right, never. I did like the touch of hometown words by naming an Irish
bar Scajaqueda. Just proves again these guys had no clue what they were
doing with location. Overall, though, the film works despite any of its
shortcomings.
