
For the life of me, I cannot figure out why this movie is getting as
lousy reviews as it is. I walked out of the theatre quite pleased; even
if this movie will not get an Oscar, it earned the price of my ticket.
It's campy, silly, and bright, and there is nothing like a fluffy romp
around the sunny islands to cure those winter blues.

Admittedly, it's a contrived, predictable mystery, but that proves to
be the focus rather than the romantic comedy that was promoted. But in
the spirit of Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys, it's a spunky predictable
mystery. No, the characters were not all complex, but at least the
powers that be went to the trouble of making them entertaining and
personable.

I liked the idea of looking for sunken treasure. I liked the upbeat
island soundtrack. I liked the funny characters. I liked the pretty
scenes and the silly lines. I liked the random explosions and fight
scenes, as pleasantly ridiculous as they were.

Kate and Matthew have the chemistry they had in "How to Lose a Guy in
10 Days". They have the sunny dispositions to pull off a
mindless-but-fun storyline and to work with a wacky cast.

It's mind candy in all its fluffy goodness.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this film "cute" and "silly". Don't go to it and expect the
best film of the year, but rather something fun to watch during a date.
I went and saw this last night with a friend who did not want to see
it...at all. In the end he said he did enjoy it after all.

There is a little bit of a "Dupree" feeling towards the character Finn
who is irresponsible and far from mature. His character is charming in
a goofy way. He seems to mess everything up, but somehow in the end it
all work out.

I did not care too much for the character Gemma, but nonetheless I
laughed at her idiotic comments because I have met people as naive as
her. She's basically a miniature Paris Hilton at sea who knows nothing
about the sea.

I wouldn't describe this movie as thrilling, but it was entertaining.
The comedy is shallow here and there. However, there are some incidents
that will make you laugh and laugh. If you want to see a light hearted
film that'll make you smile and giggle then I'd recommend seeing this.
<|_=00=_|>
My 11 year old daughter and I, big fans of "How to Lose a Guy..." went
to see this last night because there really was not another movie we
could agree on. I was reluctant based on the HORRIBLE reviews this
movie received, which I now believe were completely undeserved.

I'm as big a movie snob as anyone. Yes, I saw "La Vie En Rose" in the
theater the week it came out. I love the Coen Brothers and anything
written by Charlie Kaufman. I'm no stranger to so-called "good" films.

But guys - if you're looking for high-brow, why oh why would you expect
it from Kate and Matthew. I mean, have you BEEN to a movie in last ten
years? She is Goldie Hawn's daughter. I mean, duh! We were very
pleasantly surprised by this movie. The scenery and cinema photography
were beautiful. I agree completely with another commenter's statement
that it was a great cure for SAD. This movie was fun, and sweet, and
everything you'd expect from this cast.

Go see this and have fun!
<|_=00=_|>
Fools Gold is exactly how you would expect it to be. We have all heard
the story before in SAHARA and dare I say it, Into the Blue, although
this movie is obviously a comedy/adventure.

As for the story's strength and the actors performances, again, it's
exactly what you would expect. McConaughey, Hudson and the other
supporting characters deliver more than adequate performances and
Donald Sutherland is as brilliant as he can be considering the overall
quality of this movie.

Last but not least, pay attention to the accents, It seems like
everybody has a fake (funny fake) accent. I'm not sure why they chose
to fake the accents when everybody does a terrible job, but hey.. I
guess it makes the movie even more entertaining.

Definitely watchable
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was unbelievably disappointing, after the great chemistry
and comedic timing of Hudson and McCounaghy in "How To Lose a Guy in
Ten Days", I expected something at least marginally as funny or cute.
The writing and the dialogue were insipid. Scenes which should have
been hysterical were instead so poorly timed that it left me scratching
my head. This movie was in dire need of some ruthless editing; for
instance, the scene where Hudson and McCounaghy are explaining the
history of the shipwrecked Aurelia to Sutherland. That was some of the
most boring, long-winded, convoluted dialog I've ever heard in a
so-called adventure movie, and it went on for several minutes. The
entire scene should have been cut.

The comedic timing was off...way off. For instance, the scene where
Hudson tells the Gemma character, "There are other ways of getting
attention besides acting like a bimbo," and then there is an awkwardly
long pause before the "Ukrainian Sidekick" character says, "Like what?"
This scene is followed by another awkwardly long pause where the
characters stare at each other; presumably this is to allow the
audience time to laugh at this "brilliant" piece of wit.

And why in the name of all that is holy did the writer feel the need to
introduce the Gemma Honeycutt character to this story? I felt like the
writer was trying so hard to tell the audience, "This character is
supposed to be stupid, do you get it everyone? This character is
stupid," I felt like saying, "We get it, already. She's an idiot." The
writer, in trying to convey that Gemma is a moron, underestimated the
intelligence of the entire audience. The character was so annoying that
I literally wanted to punch her. Anyone who claims that the character
was realistic because they have, in fact, met people that stupid needs
to seriously re-evaluate their associates.

I felt like this movie was a complete waste of my money, and I lament
that I paid the premium price for the ticket instead of going to the
matin√©e. Not that I think the movie was even worth $6.50.

I don't blame the actors, since I've seen Hudson and McCounaghy in
movies that I really enjoyed, where I thought they were top-notch. I
blame the writing and the directing. A major overhaul of both would
have saved this movie.

Obviously this movie was supposed to be light and fluffy, and I
certainly don't expect "light and fluffy" movies to be Oscar-worthy.
But I do expect them to be entertaining. Look at movies like "Romancing
the Stone", and "You've Got Mail." Sure, they're fluffy, but they're
not retarded. They're entertaining movies that reasonably intelligent
people can sit back on the couch and enjoy with a glass of wine and a
plate of lasagna on a Sunday night, and not feel like they've just
sacrificed several hundred brain cells.

"Fool's Gold" was not even entertaining, and to me, that's it's biggest
flaw.
<|_=00=_|>
My expectations for this movie were very low going in, and I would say
that the movie met them. I expected a fun, exotic, exciting adventure,
which the movie delivered upon. It is a fairly predictable movie, but
always fun to watch Mathew McConaughey play the guy who hasn't grown up
along with Kate Hudson playing the lady who wishes he would. Their
chemistry is great, and isn't that all you really expect from a movie
like this, regardless of plot?

The only thing that didn't fit in the movie was a couple of overly
bloody scenes (on an absolute basis the blood was very minor, but the
fact that they showed up at all was surprising.)

Not the best movie you will ever see, but will certainly give you a
break from all this extreme winter weather we have been having.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just been to see Fool's Gold last night at the cinema and although
there have been mixed reviews on this I have to say I really liked it.
The plot is somewhat basic hunky man and gorgeous woman goes searching
for lost treasure at the bottom of the ocean, throw in a couple of
minor characters (one of them a very rich millionaire played by Donald
Sutherland), some stereotype bad guys add in a little bit action and
humour and that's Fool's Gold in a nutshell. The chemistry between
Matthew McConaughy and Kate Hudson is brilliant (they worked really
well together even on 'How to lose a guy in 10 days'.) and the humour
made me laugh out loud especially the stupid comments of the dim-witted
dilettante Gemma Honeycutt played by Alexis Dziena. Although when the
main bad guy (Bigg Bunny aka Bugs Bunny)asked his henchman 'Where's
Cyrus?' to which the henchman replies 'he'll be up in a minute'
followed by Cyrus' mangled, water spout corpse being blown up in the
air I had to cringe a little at that one. The other thing that got me
was when Moe got shot in the water by the harpoon gun and he was
bleeding why were there no sharks around to feed on him? (unless the
Bahamas doesn't have sharks? I have no idea) But when you go to see
this film don't expect too much as it's supposed to be silly romance
comedy. so I give it my 7 out of 10 vote.

Jumana P.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie so very entertaining. I thought Alexis Dziena who
plays Gemma was so adorable, innocent, sweet, and fun. She brought a
lot of entertainment to the movie and was able to hold her own among a
very talented cast, especially the experienced pros. I didn't want to
see this movie because I found the commercials boring and dull and also
silly. I was happy I went along with friends, we all laughed, held out
breath in places, rooted for the good guys to get that good. Kate
Hudson and Matthew Matthew McConaughey are a good team together, and
hope they do some more films together in the future. They're good
together in comedy. I could also go on and on about the cast members
who were a pleasant surprise to see.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was exciting, entertaining, and a good blend of romance,
adventure, drama, and entertainment. Matthew McConaghey and Kate Hudson
are a newly divorced couple who learn that a treasure they've been
after is off the coast of Key West (thanks to Mr. Mac), and they take a
cruise ship to go get it. My favorite scenes are the divorce scene, the
diving scenes, and the scenes with the rich, air-headed rich girl.
McConaghey is heavily in debt to a murderous rap star, which is why he
is after the treasure. After a slow start, this really picks up and
turns into a decent movie with gorgeous settings and lovely underwater
photography and good cast chemistry. I loved it.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
"Fools Gold" centers on an almost divorced, or newly divorced, or still
madly-in-love couple (all 3 apply) searching for Spanish treasure that
was sunk in a hurricane in 1715. Does the movie succeed as balmy
escapism from the winter doldrums? Let's see¬Ö

Is there action?: Yes, the action was there, fun at parts, but broken
up by a lot of talking that really didn't advance the plot, but worked
well to confuse it (I mean a lot of talking). There was also the sound
of crickets chirping that at some points was so loud it drowned out the
dialogue. On purpose perhaps?

Did the actors have chemistry?: Yes, in "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days"
they did. However, both Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson are likable
enough off-screen and in other films that you want to root for them,
despite the flaws of this film.

How 'bout the location?: I was never quite sure where the story was
supposed to be set. The real 1715 fleet went down off the Eastern coast
of Florida near Cape Canaveral. At one point in the movie they said
they were in Key West, but I've been there enough times to know that
those mountainous islands in the distance weren't anywhere near Duval
Street. The movie "The Deep," which also involved treasure hunters
searching for the 1715 treasure, also suffered from a lack of
appreciation of history, setting the wreck in Bermuda. But who can
complain when you have a salty Robert Shaw and Jacqueline Bisset in a
wet T-shirt?

Funny?: The laughs were few and far between. Theo Huxtable from "The
Cosby Show" was one of the baddies, and I think his pal in the film
might have been Cockroach (no word on whether or not their knowledge of
the 1715 treasure was based on "Cleland Notes"). I remember laughing at
parts, and then waiting to laugh again, and I was still waiting when
the lights came up and the usher rolled a trashcan in. I was still
waiting when I got in my car. I'm still waiting.

All bad?: What the movie does well is gets you out of the cold for a
couple hours. There were picturesque vistas of the tropics, girls in
bikinis, palm trees blowing in the breeze, and Bob Marley music in the
background. You may fool yourself for a moment into believing that
you're actually in the Caribbean, if you sneak in a Pina Colada or two,
or three.

Post Script: If you want to read a real thrilling, funny, and sexy
adventure story about treasure hunting for the 1715 fleet, try reading
Tom Ryan's novel "A Sword for Pizarro."
