
I've never posted a comment regarding a movie but feel compelled to
after attending a screening of Into The Wild at the Toronto Film
Festival last night. I won't speak to story here as it's covered in the
other comments.

This is a movie of real beauty. It made me cry. I felt moved in a way
that happens very rarely. It was an inspiration.

The feelings it evoked were all based on the power of the acting and
the writing. The words were real and human. The relationships seemed
real and human. This may not seem like a great feat - but I consider it
a true rarity. It didn't feel calculated and artificial, like so many
movies (read: Crash - but I'm not here to bash that...). It was very
organic, natural and (I can't say it enough) just beautiful. Cripes,
it's making me sound like a hippie, for heaven's sake. This for me was
Penn's best work since Indian Runner.

What it reminded me of...

- Terence Malik - Herzog? - in a strange way Cassavettes? - Hal Ashby
(more Coming Home than Harold & Maude...) - even a bit of Ken Loach

- Ruby in Paradise - Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore - Five Easy Pieces
- Easy Rider

... but when I list those it's not because of plot similarities (though
there are some) or style (although I think you can definitely see the
influence of some great films) - it's again because of the heart of it.
I heard a few people at the screening comment that the film was "too
long" but I don't agree. I think exploring a journey of this magnitude
required visiting all of the people he touched and taking the time to
see the land.

Hal Holbrook was just perfect, as was the cast as a whole, and I think
Emile Hirsch is really going places - he was fantastic and he owned the
role. Eddie Vedder's music worked perfectly as well - not distracting
or quirky - just a part of the whole.

The film received a standing ovation and quite a few tears were shed.
Magic.
<|_=00=_|>
Sean Penn's new movie Into the Wild arrives on the wave of a
well-regarded novel about a college graduate who decides that the anger
and violence in civilized society is too much to handle and commences a
journey through nature in order to truly live life as it was meant to
be. This film is a wonderful glimpse into the life of a kid, wise
beyond his years, and the bonds that he creates with people along the
way. A victim of excess in wealth and a shortage of love, Christopher
McCandless hid inside his mind behind knowledge and philosophy,
building up his intellectual strength, as well as the physical, in
order to complete his trek, ultimately leading him to Alaska. Penn
never falls into the trap of showing too much heartbreak on the side of
McCandless's parents, because he doesn't want the audience to
second-guess the decision he made. There is no debate to be had here,
our protagonist has no alternative but to get out and live off the
land. Only being completely self-sufficient can he grasp a meaning for
his life and one day perhaps go back with that knowledge fully learned.

Emile Hirsch is absolutely brilliant with his good-natured attitude and
affable charm. His character believes that human contact is not
necessary for happiness and never seeks out relationships. However, his
character is so likable that they find him and latch on, not to change
his mind, but to experience his level of being and hopefully learn
something from him and help enlarge his vocabulary on life. The people
he meets help him to fully grasp the decision of life in the wild and
be able to survive it. Never coming off condescendingly to those he
crosses paths with, Hirsch always holds a smile on his face. One scene,
where he meets up with a couple of people from Europe, proves how
contagious a clear outlook on life without the troubles of societal
restraints can be. These three kids have a blast, if only for a few
minuteswith Hirsch being chased by the police for rafting with no
licenseand it makes one wonder if maybe we all should take a journey
into nature and feel the freedom and full warmth of heart that a lack
of stress to succeed in the business world can give.

All the supporting players are magnificent at helping show the side to
McCandless that Penn needs on display to succeed. Hal Holbrook, Brian
Dierker, and Catherine Keener are by far the best of these side
characters with Vince Vaughn and Kirsten Stewart adding some charm too.
Dierker, Keener, and Stewart play hippie, flower-child type roles and
allow Hirsch to show off how modest and unselfish he is. This is the
family he deserved to have from birth and he is the son they wished
their lives had earned them. At their best, all four together give some
of the most emotionally charged moments in the film. Holbrook,
on-the-other-hand, helps give insight into the philosophy that Hirsch
needs to live with in order to survive the loneliness, looking him in
the face, to come in Alaska. It is truly fascinating to see how every
person adds something to his overall experience and to the tools he
needs.

Hirsch deserves a lot of credit because he truly outshines the film
itself with his dedication and sacrifice to the role. The length of
time needed to allow him the ability to lose the weight necessary for a
main plot point in the movie is crazy. If the time wasn't that long and
Hirsch did it all rapidly, I'm even more impressed. With all that,
there are many instances free of dialogue that he needs to carry with
body language and actions alone. True, much of this is enhanced by a
wonderful soundtrack from Eddie Vedder, but evenso it is a remarkable
performance. Kudos to Sean Penn for a gorgeous filming job also. He
captures the countryside with grace, while infusing many moments of
visual style by slow-motioning glimpses, knowing when to show the
family left behind, utilizing informative and essential voice-over, and
even breaking the fourth wall. When Hirsch first looks into the camera,
at the audience, it does not seem unnatural in the slightest, but
instead an amazing link for the viewers to take a look into his soul
like those that crossed his path have. McCandless is so pure that it
almost feels like glimpsing the calm protectiveness of God.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the book in 1996. Like others, it moved me profoundly. I created
a series of prints of my interpretation of Chris. I haven't read the
book since.

This film transported me right back to the spirit that Krakauer brought
to life in the book. I spent a few years traveling alone from
1994-1996. This film reminded my why I left and why I returned. Ten
years later, all grown up with all the crap, I'm haunted again by
Chris. What a well done job.

Thank you Sean & John. You did it right.

By the way, try to catch Holly Figueroa's song "Dream in Red" inspired
by Into The Wild.
<|_=00=_|>
The sensitivity with which Krakauer captured the essence of McCandless
and his adventure is extended aptly to the movie format by Sean Penn.
Even if one might not be able to appreciate the purpose for Alex's
journey, I don't think anyone would be able to deny that Into the Wild
is a sensitive and poignant cinematic experience. There are scenes in
this movie that one will never be able to forget, particularly the
ending sequence. This movie will easily pull its audience into a
philosophical debate for the truth about who was right and wrong isn't
easy to distinguish. Sean Penn certainly doesn't try to answer those
questions, questions that McCandless' life left for his family and the
rest of us. Penn does well to tread a delicate objective but not
indifferent line. Certainly the best movie of this year and one of the
best ever made. The story, the story itself is great.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best movies I've ever seen. Beautiful, deep, true,
adventurous, sad, occasionally funny, real, at times very touching.
Based on a real-life novel, it is written and directed by Sean Penn. I
have always loved the movie work of Sean Penn. Congratulations and
thank you to Mr. Penn on giving me a few hours of though-provoking
delight. Can you say Oscar? This movie says it loud and clear! 

The story; Christopher McCandless, just graduated from college in the
early 1990s, goes off on an adventure. He is smitten with books he
readsThoreau, London, Byron. He wants no money, so he gives his to
needy causes or burns it. Chris is cocky, driven, industrious. 

He is traumatized by his parents' bad marriage. He tries to work
through his anguish. He seems determined to destroy himself just to
prove that he has different values than his parents. He is
inconsiderate of his family and keeps them worried about his
whereabouts and safety, as if a single reassuring phone call would ruin
his rebellion. He fancies himself a philosopher, but acts the petulant
child. It is a great credit to the film that we see these character
flaws in our hero. 

Off on the road, he makes a number of foolish choices  and suffers
from some of them. Other foolish choices, such as daring to kayak a
rapid river, bring him joy. He meets a lot of people and almost all are
kind to him. His interactions with people are intense, the kind you
have when you are planning to run off and disappear while you are still
a mysterious entity. He avoids getting too close to anyone.

The movie is gorgeous. Mountains, plains, sky, rivers, animals. The
acting is fantastic, totally believable. The actors are incredible and
perfectly cast  Catherine Keener as an aging hippie vagabond, Vince
Vaughn as a wacky farmer growing who knows what, William Hurt as Chris'
potbellied suburbanite dad, Marcia Gay Harden as the type of mom who
breeds children who wants to run off to the wilderness to escape from
her. Emile Hirsch plays Chris, and does a great job of it. When an
actual photo of the real Chris McCandless comes on screen, we see that
Hirsch resembles him. Original songs by Eddie Vedder give the right
feel  that of a well-to-do young white man heading out on a chosen
adventure, getting gritty by choice. His goal is to get to Alaska, but
on the way there, he hits many other states and Mexico, too.

Chris is a clueless kid from the warm South. He plans to go to Alaska,
yet only arrives with any needed equipment because kind folks force it
upon him  a machete, warm clothes, rubber boots. He's highly educated
and gets good grades, yet, early on his trip, ignores a big sign that
warns of flash floods. That prepares us that we are going to wince many
times at his low level of common sense, while at the same time reveling
in his physical strength and willingness to press on. 

At one point, Chris passes through Los Angeles. He is dirty, hungry,
tired, and goes to a downtown mission shelter. The other men there are
also dirty, hungry, and tired, but not of their own choosing. It is not
their adventure, it is their life. He realizes fast that he does not
want to feel categorized with men who are in dire straits due to
misfortune and not due to following their own adventure. 

The movie shows Chris as an honorable young man. I do not want to give
away any of the plot, so I'll just say  the young man has principles
and so does the movie.

A few parts of the movie confused me. After Chris's college graduation,
he meets h is parents at a restaurant. He brings with him a lovely
young woman, obviously his date. Weirdly, it turns out that she is his
sister! 

There is more confusion when Chris picks up work on a farm run by
Wayne, the Vince Vaughn character. What are they growing or doing?
What's up? 

There is an unintentionally funny scene where an old man tells Chris
that he does not have time for adventures because he is too busy with
leather. I thought the old guy was confessing being into whips and
chaps. But no, he has a workshop where he tools leather. 

There were a couple spots where the editing distracted from the movie.
I saw a preview; maybe it was a rough cut. There's a scene on the farm
where a triple screen is used  like a cheesy commercial. 

Another scene, where Chris is eating an apple, is a series of jump
cuts, which I really liked. It seemed an homage to French auteur
filmmakers. But it ends with Chris mugging at the camera. With it, Sean
Penn breaks the believability and acknowledges that yes, this is just
us making a movie. 

There is another part where Chris is in a car with the older man who is
dropping him off. As they pull up, there is an inexplicable cutaway
shot of what looks to be the head of a cannon. 

Much of the movie is like a travel montage or music video involving
mountains and sky. The scenes are so beautiful. 

I know people that have elements of Chris in them. And I think I've met
all the characters he runs into out on the road.
<|_=00=_|>
Christopher McCandless lived a silly life and died a silly death. Here
was a guy who gave his savings to Oxfam, left home without uttering a
word to his family and who thought salvation lay in the wilderness. Too
bad, then, that he ate the wrong type of plant and carked it.

All the time we're told what complete bastards McCandless' parents are.
They drove Christopher into the wild. But what was their crime?
Apparently they argued some, even lied a little and their children were
born out of wedlock. Okay, they're not the best parents in the world,
but do they deserve the harsh treatment that their son dishes out  no
letters, no postcards, no phone calls? 

Well, if you're a massive jerk and you're somehow unable to comprehend
that human relationships are more complicated than a simple 'they're
good' or 'they're bad', then you may be able to build a case for young
Christopher, but if you have any depth of feeling in your soul, you may
well think that McCandless punished his parents beyond anything that is
reasonable. And also remember that he never contacted his beloved
sister. She got the silent treatment as well. However, we have a scene
where Christopher goes to call her, but instead he gives his quarter to
an old man who is running out of change. What a great guy, we're asked
to think. See how he lends a helping hand to strangers. But what about
his poor sister, the person who loves him most in the world? This
apparently is his one feeble attempt to reach out and tell her that
he's okay.

But no, Christopher is determined to live alone in the wilderness - to
find himself. He wants to escape from a sick society where people treat
each other poorly. Hell, his parents even have the nerve to offer to
buy him a new car and pay for a Harvard education. Those phonies. Those
shallow fakers who give him a home to live in and money to spend. How
disgusting they are.

Okay, so fair enough, the parents that we're presented with here are
stiff, middle class dweebs who are more interested in appearances than
anything of any substance, but what had me shaking my head was the
assertion that Christopher's disappearance made them better people.
Suddenly they're thoughtful and united and in tune with one another.
Yes, that's what every strained marriage needs  their children to put
them through a couple of years of hell.

But what I find most objectionable is the romanticising of the
wilderness. Is this the only way that anyone can find themselves, by
opening their arms and standing on the edge of a mountain and by
kayaking down a river? Isn't there any other way? Apparently not. We
even get a scene where Christopher, briefly stranded in LA, looks into
a restaurant populated by smarmy bastards and sees a yuppie version of
himself. You see what he'd become if he stayed in the city? Hunting
moose and talking to hippies is the only way to become a rounded
individual.

But the disaffection with society in this film is incredibly
adolescent. In one scene, Christopher and a buddy of his just start
impotently shouting 'society!' Yeah, society sucks and the wilderness
is great. The wilderness never starved anyone, ate anyone or froze
their balls off. In the eyes of every bear and moose is truth and
beauty, and on the cold streets of civilisation is a steady flow of
lies and deceit.

However, at the end, Christopher maybe finally begins to understand
that his quest is full of crap. He writes something along the lines
that happiness is meaningless if you don't have someone to share it
with. It took you all that time to figure that out? That human
connections are what make life bearable? You could have found that out
back home, sitting on your couch in your underpants, stuffing Cheetos
down your throat.

But of course, it's the journey that matters, isn't it? And what a
tedious journey it is. Christopher meets hippies and quirky foreigners
(who are good) and men with badges (who are bad). He helps people like
a shaggy-haired Littlest Hobo and enjoys the milk of human kindness.
Well, he enjoys the milk of human kindness as long as the people are
poor. Everyone who has no money in this film is an insightful,
kind-hearted, itinerant poet. Plus none of the hippies he meets are
smelly, ugly, incoherent bastards who drown in their own drug-fuelled
nonsense. No, they're inspiring people, who plaster their vehicles with
outdated sentiments like 'freedom', 'peace' and 'love'.

But it's notable that there's a moment when even a bear won't eat
Christopher. Supposedly the bear turns his nose up at him because the
kid stays calm or perhaps because he's so sick he doesn't smell that
good. But I'd like to think that the bear turns his nose up because
it's BS he can smell, and lots of it.

However, as we all know from Timothy Treadwell, bears don't mind a bit
of BS, but alas the film can't even come close to the genius of Grizzly
Man, a film that shows you're no closer to finding reality in the
wilderness than you are on the city streets. The problem here is that
Penn is celebrating McCandless' folly instead of investigating it. Not
for one moment are we asked to consider that this kid is perhaps a bit
of an idiot. We're meant to find his journey inspiring and his plight
tragic. But instead it's neither of those things. And at the end his
death is elevated to grandiose status (it's shot like he's ascending to
heaven, that he's communing with god). But in reality his death is what
happens when a deluded moron tries to live in the wilderness without a
map or enough food.
<|_=00=_|>
I live in Alaska and have for over 20 years and I have hiked, fished
and hunted all over this state for most all of it. I lived here when
the events of this movie happened. Christopher McCandless was not a
hero or anything of the sort and to portray him in this way in this
movie and to gloss over the insanely irresponsible actions he took that
led to his completely unnecessary death and only invites other
misguided "wilderness advocates" to do the same.

Just as in the case of the Timothy Treadwell, who died along with his
girlfriend due to his own lack of respect and understanding for the
Alaskan Brown bears he claimed to have a "relationship" with, and had a
movie made about him (Grizzley Man , 2005) McCandless was just another
in a long list of "outsiders" who read a few books or even less and
feel they have the necessary tools to survive in the bush here.

It serves no one to have this movie completely stylize and glamorize
the events that are only someone's sanitized version of what happened.
In truth McCandless likely died a horrible and lonely death in a
completely unnecessary manner and in a completely irresponsible way. If
only the movie were stronger to make this point then the it would have
served an important role. Instead it only will likely lead to more
misguided outsiders, unprepared and irresponsibly doing the same or
worse.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly let me just say this 1st Sean Pean made this story come to
life, true life in every moment in the film. This movie has nothing
wrong with it, it is perfect in every way shape and form. He did
something that brought me to something I never could understand of what
either i have to do or what i need to do in my life. If you want a
movie from the heart this is it, if you want a movie of love this is
it, if you want a movie with real life emotions well this is all of
them. Its long but you'll probably want more when you don't want to
leave your seat and just live in the moment of they story. So from my
heart to yours this movie will speak to you know matter what.
<|_=00=_|>
INTO THE WILD definitely works as a film - I had read the book so I
certainly knew the tragic story of this young man's life but I was
blown away by the performances. In fact, to have this young talent
Emile Hirsch working with the old, legendary Hal Holbrook makes the
film a must see - in fact, their scene near the end in the truck is one
of the best pieces of acting I have ever seen on film - Holbrook is
amazing there. He deserves a Best Supporting Actor nomination (but
probably won't get it). The film is by no means perfect - there are
pacing problems but Penn does use the flashbacks incredibly well and
the film builds power as it goes along. Hirsch is so real - I remember
noticing how talented he was in the indie flick Dangerous Life Of Altar
Boys and I also thought he was very good in the so-so Alpha Dog film.
But Penn gets a terrific performance out of him as well as Catherine
Keener, Vince Vaughn, Wm. Hurt, Kirsten Stewart, jena Malone and
everyone else for that matter. I can see how this film might not be for
every one, but I was very moved by it and days later - certain images
and moments stayed with me. Penn is getting better as a filmmaker with
each movie he makes.
<|_=00=_|>
As a parent who's reasonably liberal and open-minded I was nevertheless
repulsed by the incredibly self-serving main character and director
Sean Penn's unsubtle and cloying anti-government/anti-commercialist
bent. McCandless may have been a straight-a student but he didn't learn
a bloody thing in college. The writings of Byron, London, Tolstoy,
Thoreau i.e. are taught as a jumping off point toward
self-determination and adulthood. They are not meant to be literally
emulated as lifestyles.

And the ridiculous conceit of a 24 year old lecturing an elderly man to
open up and go live his life underscores the primary issue with this
movie, a misanthropic and deluded main character. Acting was decent
enough but I could not for a moment get into the story or the
performance due to my disconnect. In scene after scene, I was
constantly reminded of the agony McCandless put his poor parents and
sister through. Sure they made some mistakes in bringing him up but
who's perfect in this world? It would have cost him nothing to simply
let them know he was still alive and on 'walk-about' or whatever he
thought his pointless odyssey signified. Or at least given them the
chance to say good-bye.

Ultimately, I found "Into the Wild" irresponsible because McCandless is
presented as the rebellious anti-hero rather than a fool who caused his
own senseless death and the deepest sorrow of his loved ones. Sean Penn
is a talented somehow but choosing the right sorts of role models to
present on film is not one of his skills. Oh and I will definitely not
be sending my kids to Emory College if this is the sort of minds they
produce...
