
Star Trek. When someone speaks this name, various images, ideas,
characters and phrases come to mind. I know they certainly do with me.
Characters such as Kirk, Spock, Picard, Data, Janeway, Seven of Nine;
ideas like the prime directive; phrases like "Live long and Prosper",
"Good God Jim, I'm a doctor not a.". I wouldn't consider myself a
"Trekkie", but I do have a deep affection for this series and world.

To my great delight, I was fortunate enough to see an advanced
screening last night of JJ Abrams re-imaging of "Star Trek". I must
admit that I was skeptical at first about taking such iconic characters
and recasting them, even in younger iterations, because most people
think of the characters of Kirk, Spock, Bones, Scotty, Uhura, Sulu and
Chekov with the actors that originally portrayed them. These portrayals
are engrained in the pop culture consciousness of the world and hence
my skepticism arose. Fortunately, my doubts were unnecessary.

This is not your father's "Star Trek". From the moment the movie
begins, so does the action and it never lets up. However, this movie
has more than just incredible and intense action, it also pays homage
to the series of old. Sure, they wanted to bring us a Trek for the 21st
century, but they also realized that they needed to respect the source
material and fans of a series that has been around more than 40 years.
However, you don't need to know much about Star Trek to enjoy this
movie. Each character has been given a background and history that lets
you know a little something about each one. There's a lot to be told in
an origin movie and it is handled deftly by both the writers and the
director.

But, what really made the movies for me were the actors chosen to play
these roles, especially Chris Pine as Kirk, Zachary Quinto as Spock and
Karl Urban as Dr. McCoy, aka "Bones". This movie would not have worked
if the casting of these three characters had not been spot on. Both Mr.
Quinto and Urban uncannily channel their predecessors, Leonard Nimoy
and DeForest Kelley. They took on some of their inflections, mannerisms
and expressions to really give you a sense that they are just younger
versions of the originals. Chris Pine, however, takes on the most
memorable role in Trek history and makes it his own. This Kirk is not
only the womanizer, lover, and captain that you already know, but as
portrayed by Mr. Pine also has a swagger, bravado, intelligence, and is
a complete adrenaline junkie. We could not have asked for a better Kirk
in this movie.

They have laid a solid foundation for a new series, with new life,
perfect cast and a director with a true vision. If the first movie can
be this good, my expectations for further adventures have risen
exponentially.

This is my first review for our website and as such might not be very
good since I have no experience at writing reviews. I intentionally
didn't reveal any plot points so as to not spoil anything for whoever
may read this. I may in the future reveal areas that may have spoilers
but mark these sections so you can skip over them. I'll be seeing
Wolverine tomorrow and hope to have a review up by tomorrow night.
Until we meet again, "Live long and Prosper!"
<|_=00=_|>
There was no way that this reboot was going to avoid all references to
either the original series of Star Trek or the other spin-off series -
anyone going in to see this film had to accept that as a given. But any
cheesy bits (of which there were relatively few) are blown away by the
sheer beauty and bravado of this film.

I was a fairly big Trekkie in my youth, but in the last 10 years only
really kept up with it by watching a few new episodes here and there
and seeing the big screen outings (OK, I admit that I have all 10 films
on special edition DVD - £47 was a bargain!) - but Abrams' vision here
has me thinking the new franchise will be even better than what has
come before.

What made this film special for me was not the story (remarkably good,
bearing in mind that, like the first film in any new franchise, it's
backbone was character development). What made this film for me was
the....photography? Can you even call CGI photography? Well, either
way, this film was a visual feast. The way that scale was conveyed was
breath-taking. I'm not sure whether I read this somewhere or if I can
take credit for it myself, but the difference came in the way that
Abrams shoved aside the traditional Star Trek view of Enterprise as a
lumbering naval ship and took a more Star Wars-esquire dogfight
approach. This has set a high standard for a new era of Star Trek that
I hope will spawn at least a couple more films.

It's not that I wasn't impressed with the character development, the
acting, the script or the story - it's just that this film looked so
gorgeous that I haven't been able to think of anything else since I saw
it last night! But sufficed to say, this was overall an excellent
feature. It might not quite deserve a 100% rating, but it's worth more
than 90% in my eyes - so, by rounding up, it gets 10/10 from me! Final
warning: see this film in the cinema. Do not wait for it to come out on
DVD. It. Will. Not. Do. It. Justice.

JJ, you've won a fan!
<|_=00=_|>
Darth Vader, err, Darth Maul - umm, I mean Nero - has this huge,
gigantic awesome Death Star - err, I mean Mining Ship, that can destroy
entire planets. So Nero blows up Alderaan - umm, I mean Vulcan, killing
Princess Leia's father - I mean, Spock's mother. And then the Death
Star homes in on the Rebel Base - Umm, I mean the mining ship homes in
on Starfleet headquarters, and only Luke Skywalker can stop it by
ignoring orders and turning off his targeting computer and trusting the
Force - no, I mean only Jim Kirk can stop it by ignoring Starfleet's
orders and trusting his instincts. It's a good thing Old Ben Kenobi was
there to give Kirk that fatherly advice earlier - no, wait, that was
Captain Pike.

And then they had a big old celebration, and Luke and Han got medals -
err, I mean, Jim Kirk got a medal and was made captain.

This movie was terrible. 

The sad thing, I was actually loving it, totally suckered in,
emotionally caught up in the film, and then it just got really stupid.

The movie totally lost me when Spock threw Jim Kirk off of his ship and
made him go down to the Ice Planet of Hoth. Why would Spock do that?
Why would ANY Starfleet officer abandon one of their own on a frozen
planet full of deadly Wampas during the middle of an interstellar war -
err, interstellar terrorist event?

Spock should have been court-martialed for that. No commanding officer
in any military organization would ever do that, anywhere, any time,
for any reason.

Luckily, the evil tattoo-faced bad guy, Darth Maul - umm, Nero, did THE
EXACT SAME THING to his sworn enemy, Old Spock, who showed up just in
time to save Kirk, which was really lucky, because Kirk didn't have his
lightsaber handy to cut off the snow-monster's arm.

So Spock and Nero are morally equivalent with each other, both
banishing their enemies to a frozen wasteland. How symmetrical.

Thankfully, this happens to be the exact same planet that Montegomery
"Scotty" Scot was also unfairly banished to! What a lucky coincidence! 

Old Spock knew Kirk and Scotty in the future! And in the future, Scotty
figured out a way to magically beam onto a ship moving faster than the
speed of light half a galaxy away! And Old Spock remembers how he did
it! Yay! Magic!

Now, smart people would have used this trick to beam the bad guys off
of their own ship, and into the vacuum of space, where they would have
died, and Earth would have been saved.

This movie is not about smart people.

The villain is a coal miner from the future. He hates Spock because
Spock tried to save his homeworld from destruction. So it's Spock's
fault? Why? Because Spock got there too late - did Spock stop off for
some fast food or something? Why is it Spock's fault?

I mean, if I my planet were destroyed, and I got sucked a hundred years
into the past, I would warn my planet, so they could start evacuating.
I would use my enormous mining ship to start ferrying off the billions
of refugees to a nice safe planet, not go around the galaxy destroying
all of the most habitable worlds.

It's not just Nero who is mentally challenged, though. Old Spock needs
only a few drops of "Red Matter" to turn a supernova into a black hole
- but he's got like fifty gallons of it on board his ship. Why? Is that
smart? Is that safe? What if a bunch of terrorists were able to get
hold of all that Red Matter by capturing your puny little vessel? Duh!
I think Old Spock is a bit senile.

Let's face it. Most of the Star Trek movies have sucked. And sadly, so
does this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Sirs: I so much wanted to like, no, love this movie.

Instead, without giving away too many spoilers (there are a few here),
it was simply awful. What Paramount delivered was an ADHD addled mess;
one that completely destroys the source material from which it came. I
understand that for the uninitiated, they (Abram's and company) can do
what they like; and they have done so, I believe, for the sole purpose
to be able to 'dumbly go where no worse hack writers have gone before'
and henceforth dish out more tripe in the name of Star Trek while
absolutely violating over 40 years of franchise history. You can laugh
at that, and tell me to get a life, but if you are going to put the
name of 'Star Trek' on a film, you need to do damn well better, and
stay light years truer, than this crap. 'Superman Returns' certainly
accomplished that.

I never thought I'd say this, but the Sci-Fi channel's ill advised
'Battlestar Galactica' was far more honest to its source material than
Abram's 'Star Trek'. What he did was to truly steal a known identity,
and then produce a bird cage liner that has almost nothing in common
with that identity past the title, and the names of the characters.

Unfortunately, this 56 year old Trekker was all too easily able to
follow the entire non-plot and action. The dialog overlap was 100%
techno-babble predictable. A Power-Ranger's bred child could follow
this simplistic 'must fight bad man' drivel.

The story was lame, and I believe that Orci and Kurtzman's claims to be
fans of the show are outright lies; meant only as a weak attempt to
deflect the flood of criticism they so richly deserve. They followed
the beaten down, grossly overused, time travel path that Brannon Braga
used to eventually kill the TV franchise.

Romulans??? In THIS time line so readily recognized by the Federation?
A Chekov that was even sillier sounding than the original? And if one
were to 'allow' the events of this misbegotten movie to be accepted, it
would quite literally wipe out ALL of the subsequent 'known' Star Trek
events, with the exception of the Enterprise series.

RED matter??? Oh my God, I can see them sitting around a table saying,
"Well, we can't use anti-matter, they'd never believe that one, and
maybe even Dark Matter would be laughed at today, if we tried to use it
as we intend... I'VE GOT IT! We'll call it RED MATTER! No one's EVER
used that one! So we can carry a big blob of it around, extract a drop
with a HYPODERMIC NEEDLE, and STILL use it to cause a Singularity and a
subsequent Black Hole! Yeah, THAT'S plausible, without us ever having
to explain anything! Brilliant!" I suspect that the only Star Trek
these geniuses ever watched was the much maligned 'Alternative Factor'
episode. This 'plot device' (this was so bad, even Clarke's Third Law
can not provide cover for it) is totally unbelievable, even when
compared to a warp driven star ship. This is the kind of science
fiction that a sixth grader writes. Come to think of it, I am probably
insulting the intelligence of sixth graders everywhere. Watch for Blue
Matter to follow in the next installment.

Speaking of which, this is not an 'alternative timeline' to free them
from Canon, this is just an excuse to be able to avoid any
accountability to 40 plus years of established 'Star Trek'. This is
lazy, sloppy, and weak writing all rolled into one colossal middle
finger brazenly extended to Star Trek fandom.

The ONLY thing worthy about this movie was the exterior of the
Enterprise itself. It was truly beautiful; and the only piece here that
stayed loyal to the original.

The rest is absolute zero worthless.

Sincerely, Dennis Carlson

Oh yeah, addendum: The biggest, worst, possibly most overlooked hole in
this entirely stupid movie is the fact that if Nero DID somehow find
himself back in time, after the destruction of his wife and home world,
why didn't he simply use the opportunity to WARN the Romulan Empire,
and the Federation, of what was going to happen, instead of going
Postal? This is why Time Travel episodes suck, (Read same fault with
Generations). Period. If I could have given this movie a Zero, I would
have.

Last Add On, Promise:

1: For all of you who told us few naysayers to 'Get A Life',
congratulations on your originality. 

2: Yes, we know its just Fiction, and that our DVD's of the movies and
series have not disappeared, but at least SOME of us yearn for at least
a LITTLE continuity; something which this movie nearly completely
destroys. This movie pulls a 'Dallas' 'It Was All A Dream' scam, and
sorry, but some of us just don't buy it. Cheap, bad, writing. I'm
pretty sure I'd laugh my butt off at the howls of protest from you JJ
lovers, if the next movie restored the Star Trek time line as it should
be, and rendered THIS travesty to the scrap heap where it belongs. You
would scream at the repudiation of ONE movie, how do you think many of
us feel about the refutation of nearly 40 YEARS of events, no matter
how fictional? 

3: And finally, to all of you who say that such extreme measures HAD to
be done to revive the franchise, you are completely ignoring the fact
that after the mediocre disappointment of 'Star Trek: The Motion
Picture', that all it took to revive the franchise then, was to bring
in a REAL Writer and Director, Nicholas Meyer, who crafted a superior
movie WITHOUT (yes, I know about Chekov-Khan) trashing basic Trek
'history'.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night I was lucky enough to be one of the few to attend the world
premiere of J.J. Abram's "Star Trek" at the Sydney Opera House. This
red carpet event was every bit as surreal and magical as the film
itself.

The film in many ways matched the venue  unreal. You have doubtless
heard or seen other reviews (as I have) and they probably say the same
thing: this is (in every sense of the phrase) a second take on the Star
Trek universe, from the beginning.

From the opening sequence, JJ Abrams asserts his authority in a plot
twist which will shake the very fabric of the Star Trek universe. In a
sudden (plot) twist, the very nature of the film becomes clear: this is
a new Star Trek.

However, the opening sequence delivers more than just this "statement"
- it also gives us a taste of what is to come: action, drama, solid
performances and an outstanding introduction to a new era.

Little by little we are introduced to the main characters, starting
with Kirk, Spock, McCoy and Uhura as we briefly navigate their early
lives including events at Starfleet Academy before hitting a plot
crescendo which brings all the cast together  and to the starship
Enterprise, NCC 1701! 

This is a movie strong on character development, and each of the actors
deliver brilliant performances  nothing less would be appropriate
given the shoes each has to fill.

The movie moves along at an agreeable pace, never slow enough to be
tedious, nor too frenetic so as to be judged another "run 'n' gun"
style sci-fi action flick.

This is a movie with cutting edge special effects, but they serve more
to frame the storyline and characters rather than to be the show
entirely.

Star Trek has always been tied to models and great visuals, so this is
something which we've come to expect from this groundbreaking
franchise.

Since I do not intend to introduce spoilers in this review, I can only
really say that the crew of the USS Enterprise is brought full circle
to face the film's dark enemy, a Romulan by the name of Nero who is
portrayed by Australia's own Eric Bana (who is not given nearly enough
screen time in my humble opinion).

By now you've probably heard that the movie also features Leonard Nimoy
 reprising his role as Mr (please, not Doctor) Spock. This is indeed
true, however you may be surprised to learn that this is no token cameo
role.

Leonard Nimoy's Spock plays a pivotal role in the film, and in a way
bridges the franchise from the original series to the new film version.
He also has delivery of my most favorite line in the film..

Each actor holds their own with the roles we know so well. It would be
unfair to single out any specific actor.. but I have to say that Simon
Pegg and Zachary Quinto are simply outstanding amongst a group of very
talented actors in a movie which is (perhaps a little surprisingly)
carried by strong character development.

In summary, this film is likely to appeal to a wide audience including
die hard Trekkies and those new to the Star Trek universe. This is a
must see film, even if you can't tell the difference between a Tribble
and a Tholian!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to hit this from a scientific perspective. That would be
too easy and would just invite others to castigate me for not
"suspending disbelief" during a fun summer sci-fi. No, this movie sucks
on a very base level. The first, and most disturbing part of the movie
is the villain, Nero, who I think is the worst villain Hollywood has
given us, and Hollywood once gave us Arnold as Ice Man. Nero is awful
because his motivation makes no sense whatsoever.

As the story goes, Nero is furious at Spock, and by extension his whole
race of Vulcans, because Spock did not get to Romulus' star in time to
save it from super nova, which destroyed his planet and all those he
loved and cared for. In the process both he and Spock are sucked into a
black hole and spit out the other side well in the past, except at
different times, Nero 25 years before Spock. In waiting 25 years for
Spock to come through the black hole as he had, Nero and his crew
seethe with rage and plot their revenge against Spock and his evil race
of Vulcans.

But why? Did Spock create the super nova? No. That was explained as a
natural disaster. Did Spock try to save his planet? Yes. In fact, he
had every reason to believe that he was going to die in the process.
After failing to stave off the super nova, he was sucked into a black
hole, which is assumed to destroy anything entering it (after all,
black holes literally crush atoms to the point of not existing).
Personally I think that makes Spock a hero to the Romulans! Having a
vendetta against Spock and the Vulcans would be like tracking down and
killing the family of a fire fighter who died in your house while he
tried to save your wife and kids. That makes no sense. None. Last, Nero
is now in the past, no? Why doesn't he just go about saving his planet
from destruction? He's got the "red matter" to do it.

The other thing that ticked me off was the silly string of "accidents"
that put a gang of 22 year-olds in command of the Federation's
flagship. Do they not have even a single 40 year-old who has actually
been in space before? It's even worse than that if you think about it.
Before the ship takes off Kirk is about to be booted out of
Starfleetbut now he's put in charge?

I'm willing to suspend disbelief in sci-fi movie, but there's a
difference between suspending disbelief and watching a movie like I'm a
3-year old. 3 stars out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
So I managed to go to the world premiere at the Sydney opera house last
night. While I will not ruin the film before its release by delivering
a shot by shot review here I will say that JJ Abrams is quite possibly
the smartest film maker on the planet. Managing to poke fun at some of
the sillier aspects of the original series/movies while still being
completely respectful, action scenes that easily rival anything in
Transformers, and space battles that are breathtaking. Now let me just
say that while I do consider myself a big fan of Trek in all its forms,
i don't have a uniform hanging in my wardrobe and I cant speak Klingon,
but having said that I will say the movie is F###ING AMAZING...!!!
Honestly, incredible film, do yourself a favour and see it as soon as
it comes out. thanks, the end.
<|_=00=_|>
I was actually glad to see some of the negative reactions here, because
I thought I might be alone in my dislike for this movie.

Everyone around me at the premier seemed to be cheering. But I just
felt a little sick inside.

As one reviewer said, Trek was at its best when it expected an audience
to think. Not to just switch off their brains and enjoy the pretty
explosions. This isn't "Independence Day", for crying out loud.

There are dozens of problems with the movie, but the biggest one is the
script. I'll say this for the actors. They all tried very hard, and
they really put a lot of effort into it. Good on them.

But the script and the story are just ... awful. Dumb. With plot holes
so large I could fly a ship through them.

There's problems with the sense of scale. The writers don't seem to
realise how big space is. Travelling at warp speeds, and being able to
stop on a proverbial dime. Shooting a capsule down to a planet, and
randomly finding the one person within walking distance of its landing
spot.

And scenes like monster1 chasing our hero, only to see it chomped by
larger monster2, means that you think ripping off George Lucas's
"Phantom Menace" is probably a good idea.

For those who *really* like their Trek, (and by that, I mean the sort
of people who know what's involved in ship to ship warp-transports, and
what the maximum range of a transporter is in the 24th century)
there'll be even more to drive you nuts. If you were the sort of person
who watched Generations and said "Just dump the warp core! WTF?" you'll
probably have more problems than I can mention here.

Finally, this movie is the ultimate reset button. (Something I never
liked in the series, where it was usually used in Voyager). If you like
your comics, you might know what I mean when I say, this is Star Treks
"Brand New Day".

Personally, I think this is the last Trek movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Not content to rest on his laurels in boring the world into a black
hole with LOST, or writing some of the worst ever episodes of Felicity,
J.J. Abrams set busily to his task of eviscerating Star Trek in a
derivative, boring, 2 hours and 6 minutes of sadistic torture. With new
credits ripped straight from Third Rock From The Sun and Simon Pegg
sequences that seem to be taken from Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy
and Romulans who appear to have been extras from The Matrix. Do the
makers of this film trust any of their OWN ideas!? Do they have any!?
And the staple hopeful tone Star Trek is gone. Replaced by a war slash
comedy tone that I would expect only to find in Red Dwarf or Starship
Troopers. There are just enough seconds of great action in this film to
fit into a great trailer. Yes that's right. That stuff you saw in the
trailer? That's it, that's all of it, no more than that. There are just
enough seconds truly funny comedy to fit into a comedy trailer.
Surprise surprise! For the rest of it, we get people sitting around
talking about nothing. Except they are in space... which is, you know,
actually nothing. Unlike the New York of Seinfeld, which is, y'know,
something. Oh, and did I mention that every character in TNG, DS9 and
Voyager and Enterprise is dead? Oh, not dead. NEVER BORN! That's right,
Picard and Data, will never exist. Never born. Because the timeline has
been re-arranged. Re-arranged by who you ask? A small mining ship. A
small mining ship with no time-sheilding has evaded the time-shielded
time-police and killed Kirk's dad and destroyed the whole planet of
Vulcan. Ri-ight. WTF? W T F!? How did they do away with the time
police? Aren't a lot of the time-shielded time police FROM the planet
Vulcan, that has just been destroyed by illegal unscheduled time travel
of a tiny mining ship? If some kind of deity like Q has disabled the
whole of the time police, why is it for such a small reason as
destroying one tiny planet. Couldn't the deity destroy the planet with
a flick of his finger? Oh wait, it's, you guessed it, Stargate! And why
don't we see these juicy Q-type-bady-talks-to-bad-guys sequences?? Who
knows.

Star Trek is supposed to be hopeful and inspire individuals to do good
in the world. This is a war movie to inspire people to pick up a gun
and do who knows what.

Star Trek Zero (official working title) gets a big ZERO from me. Awful,
abysmal. One star because they don't allow lower.
<|_=00=_|>
Star Trek is not about the past but rather about the future. This new
movie is not the Star Trek that we know and have loved for more than 40
years, is in fact a poor excuse to gain market and to reboot (erase)
the series completely. The end result: what will happen with all the
Star Trek after TOS? Is already known that this movie connects the Star
Trek Countdown comics in order to create an alternative reality since
Nero and Spock travel through time but not to our Star Trek time-line,
but another alternative reality (SPOILER). Nero's effect on that
time-line by killing Kirk's father does affect the alternative reality
in this new Star Trek. In addition Spock's interference changes
completely the time-line for this parallel (in such way) universe. So,
what we are seeing is not our Star Trek but rather a new version of it.
Not the best solution since there was a lot of great ideas after
Nemesis. This is by far the Lucas Syndrome, "if you are out of ideas,
then create a prequel." 

(SPOILER) Romulus, Remus and a large part of the Romulan Empire get
destroyed in the very late 24th century (see Star Trek Online and Star
Trek Countdown) and the result is Nero and Spock arriving at this
universe. The time-line here is completely different from our Star
Trek, so what we know is no longer canon, since this is like a goodbye
to our beloved Star Trek. In its place, what we get? Huge explosions,
short skirts, sex, and a movie lacking of morality. Star Trek is not
about that, is about a message, is about going forward and explore
strange new worlds.

I'm afraid that this movie will eventually erase what we know about
Star Trek and the effort of all the productions, writers, casts and all
the people related to previous Trek series. I hope fans will realize
that shiny explosions and short skirts is not everything... BRING OUR
STAR TREK BACK!!! BRING TNG, DS9 and VOY BACK!!!

"Resistance is Futile."
