
I saw this film on November 21st, 2006 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival's Truly Moving Picture Award. A
Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically
expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland
gave that award to this film.

This film is based on a true and tragic story. On November 14th, 1970,
the Marshall University football team, football coaches, athletic
staff, key alumni, and friends were flying home to Huntington, West
Virginia after an away game against East Carolina. Their plane crashed
killing all seventy five (75) aboard. 

How do a University and a small town of 50,000 people respond to a
massive tragedy that affected so many students and town residents? This
movie is about their struggle to come to grips with that tragedy.

Without bitter rancor and with humility, some felt the University
should start up a new football team and persevere through a long
rebuilding process to honor the dead. Others, again without rancor and
with humility, believed that starting up a football team would be too
painful a reminder of the tragedy.

It was decided to start a new football team immediately and play the
next season in 1971. This movie is primarily about the difficulties of
the development of the team.

Matthew McConaughey plays the new Head Coach brilliantly and
believably. He is a combination of country bumpkin enthusiastic
huckster and a wise man. And he does it simply because he believes 
"Maybe I can help." He displays courage and perseverance and makes
sacrifices with a career move that could throw him out of his beloved
profession, head football coaching, forever. 

The town and University have to quickly break the Vince Lombardi-like
notion that you play the game of football for one reason only  to win.
They learn how you play the game matters, and even simply showing up is
a kind of victory too.

This is a compelling story well told and very moving. 

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
I graduated from Marshall University and grew up in Huntington, West
Virginia, where the movie takes place, which of course, made this movie
especially meaningful to me. I drove 300 miles to see the Premiere in
Huntington two days ago, and the audience actually clapped during
certain scenes, laughed quite a few times, and there wasn't a dry eye
in the house at the end. Though it was extremely poignant for us West
Virginians because there were people in the audience whose family
members died in that horrible plane crash in 1970, and one of my high
school friends was actually there at the crash site with her father who
was a State Trooper, and I know other people who lost someone. However,
aside from all that, this movie is extremely uplifting. When you are
faced with such a horrendous tragedy as losing 75 people, 55 of whom
were members of your football team with only a handful of players left
as well as the head coach and family members of the football players
and other university faculty, etc., it is completely devastating! I
remember seeing scenes of the crash on TV, and it was horrible. And
then to rebuild a team from scratch when no one even wanted to coach
the Thundering Herd (Marshall's football team)? That's totally amazing! 

And the way they went about it was ingenious! I didn't know a lot of
the details of what happened after the crash or how hard it was to
rebuild the team because I was 5 years old at the time, but the
director/producer McG, the writer and all the actors really give you a
sense of the horrendous loss that my hometown experienced and how they
really did rise from the ashes to honor their teammates who perished on
November 14, 1970. Even if you're not a sports fan, this movie shows
the indelible spirit of the human condition and what you can accomplish
if you really give 110%. Matthew McConauhey, Anthony Mackie and Matthew
Fox and the entire cast gave absolutely incredible performances, and
after the film ended Matt M and Matt Fox were both so choked up they
could barely speak. And I guarantee that people who are not a little
emotional after watching this film, then those folks didn't "see" what
I saw--an Oscar-Winning film whether it gets nominated or not! 

Lynne Logan Novelist/Screenwriter and very grateful fan of "We Are
Marshall"
<|_=00=_|>
Wow...I just got back from a preview showing of "We Are Marshall," and
I am still in shock I'll admit it, I originally only went to see this
movie to see Matthew Fox. I mean I like football, but normally I
wouldn't go to the theaters to see a movie on it. I expected it to be
like a lot of sports movies--good, but repetitive and forgettable.
However, I was completely wrong. The movie is excellent on so many
levels. The acting is extremely good. Matthew Mcconaughey is extremely
likable as the head coach, Matthew Fox is incredible as the assistant
coach (especially his emotional scenes), and so is the supporting cast.
The film itself is just extremely well-made as a whole, and extremely
touching and moving.

Right now, I feel really bad that the movie hasn't gotten more buzz
than it has. It was one of the best movies i've seen in a long time. I
am surprised that it didn't get nominated for any Golden Globes because
it really is probably better than a lot of the movies that got
nominated. But really, it is an extremely good movie, and not just your
typical, cliché, sports movie. It was such a nice surprise, and I am
really glad i decided to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see an advanced screening of 'We Are Marshall'
for audience research purposes therefore being part of the first
audience in Britain to see the film.

We were given a brief plot description when offered the tickets which
didn't interest me to be honest (I was more interested in seeing a free
film!) So when I went to see it I didn't know what to expect, just that
apparently it is supposed to be very good and quite emotional.

I was pleased to see that it managed to live up to that, as coming out
of the cinema I felt it managed to stand by what I heard in being a
very good film, in fact I would go so far as to say brilliant. Staying
behind for a quick discussion about the film for research purposes, two
people (including myself) rated the film as 'excellent', four rated it
'very good' and two (somewhat miserable and stubborn) people rated it
'good'.

In my opinion, the film manages to portray the death of the football
team in a tasteful and respectful way, showing the emotions of the
characters in the way the town cared for the team. However, shortly
after the plane crash I felt that the film stumbled into a very slow
and boring corner. Luckily about twenty minutes later, the film manages
to pick up very well. I found the remaining hour of the film very
enjoyable and emotional, with a few humorous lines from Matthew
McConaughey.

I was also very pleased to see how well Matthew Fox managed starring in
a feature film. Being only fifteen, my only knowledge of Fox is Jack
form 'Lost'. I feel that he managed to play the character of Red very
well - very quickly in the film, the role of Jack was soon forgotten.

The ending to the film is done very well and manages to keep you in
suspense, despite a quite predictable result. I was also quite
surprised how little knowledge of the game football is needed. Being
English, I can't say I have ever seen a game of 'American' Football,
let alone understand the rules - I found myself thoroughly enjoying the
action packed games despite knowing nothing of the sport.

All in all, in my opinion this is a very, very good film which I
strongly recommend. As said, I found a part of the film rather dull but
felt 'We Are Marshall' delivered a second half so good, I soon forgot
about it.

Go see this film!
<|_=00=_|>
The critics seem to be trashing this movie, but for those of us who
grew up in Huntington, WV, it was an amazing story and an incredible
movie. I laughed, cried, cheered, and then cried some more. I have
never been more proud of my hometown. This is not just a story about
football. I'm sure you will hear that more than once. It is a story
about getting back on your feet. Even when you think things are at
their worst. This is a point the critics seem to miss. They compare it
to Invincible and other football movies. Don't listen. GO SEE THIS
MOVIE! I believe you will love it too! Even if you are not from
Huntington, you will be able to relate if you have ever lost someone
close. As one of the other posters put it...We are...Marshall!!! Go
Herd!
<|_=00=_|>
I was taken from the moment it started, crying within the first few
minutes. I definitely cried more than I thought I would, but I also
laughed and cheered. It is truly an all inclusive movie. I have herd
this story on many occasions throughout my life, but I still feel that
learned some things by watching the movie. I know that not all of it
was historically accurate, but there are always things that Hollywood
has to add to make things more interesting. I did notice a few
mistakes, but only a couple, and they were things that a movie critic
at heart, or someone from Huntington would notice (lucky for me, I am
both). I was definitely impressed with the way my hometown was
personified. Most films portray West Virginia as nothing but poor
redneck hillbillies, but this movie has made a difference. I feel they
really showed Huntington for what it is. The most touching moment for
me involved our favorite rival...WVU. I do not know if it actually
happened, but it took my breath away when I saw it. I won't tell you
what it is, but you'll know when you see it. I was completely consumed
during this movie. I was incredibly impressed with Matthew McConaughey
and Matthew Fox's performances. These men WERE our coach and asst.
coach. The only thing that distracted me was the local connections to
some of the extras in the film. Other than that, I was completely
sucked in. I don't want to give anything away, because I want you to
experience it for yourself, but I promise to go see with all of my
friends, no matter how many times that takes. Most people I know have
told me that I am the biggest Marshall fan they know, and I hope that
is true, because this is my passion, my pride. I hope that those of you
who aren't as familiar with our history will learn some things and will
be touched by the story. It is a wonderful movie. I highly recommend it
to everyone. So go see it on Dec 22nd and enjoy! Don't forget to bring
tissues, or grab some napkins at the concession stand like we did.

~Kelli~ WE ARE MARSHALL!!! 4 ever!
<|_=00=_|>
As a parent of an existing student at MU, I feel every currently
enrolled student, potential future student and their parents should see
this film. Prior to my daughter's enrollment at MU, I had no idea of
this tragedy. Even though one of the assistant coaches killed lived 5
minutes from me. In my daughter's years so far at MU, I've learned MU
stands for tradition, history, and pride. This film depicts that in a
most inspiring way. Matthew Fox deserves an award for his portrayal of
Coach Red Dawson. Matthew McC. brings Coach Lengyel's personality alive
on the big screen. The Director, McG, truly captured the emotion of the
entire town. After seeing this film, I will never sit at that football
stadium again without feeling the presence of 75 people looking down
upon that field and smiling.

I have never been in a theater where complete silence occurred. Within
10 minutes of the start of the movie, the only sounds you heard were
the sniffles of the audience. Yes, its tragic but this movie shows you
never let the "licks" life hands you get the best of you and win. Not
only on the football field but in real life. Go see the movie but bring
tissues.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to watch the movie here in New York State. I absolutely loved
the movie as did my entire family. I cried a lot but also laughed here
and there. The movie was well done with only a few little things I
noticed that were changed, but overall it was very true to the story I
grew up with and the facts I know.

Matthew McConaughey and Matthew Fox did a wonderful job in their parts.
I was quite impressed with every actor in the movie actually, they all
did a fantastic job. McG did a great job in bringing the story to the
screen. You were there in that time and during the tragedy and felt
what Huntington went through.

As I left the movie, I thought about the ones who died in the plane
crash and cried again. For those of you who haven't seen the movie or
know the story this isn't just a story about loosing a football team.
The crash also claimed members of the football staff and prominent
people of the town of Huntington. The other players in other sports
lived in the dorms with the football players who perished. They felt
the impact when returning to school and all those faces now gone from
their halls. The staff was down to almost nothing. The citizens that
died included doctors, lawyers, a car dealership owner, dentist,a
council member for Huntington and radio announcers for the herd. So,
you can see this impacted the town in a way most won't or don't
understand. If you watch the movie you can see how it effects everyone.
I would like to now take a moment to remember those who passed
.................................................................. We
will never forget you.

In the end this movie is about moving on, dealing with your grief or
loss and how to live again. How as to rise above the ashes and move
forward as it is said in the movie.

I think people of 20 years of age and older will love this movie. I ran
into several people of these age ranges that asked me questions and
told of how they were going to tell their friends to go see the movie
as well. I hope this movie touches and shows everyone how to rise from
the ashes and move forward. In today's world of tragedies this is a
movie that will touch you if you have dealt with a tragedy yourself.
So, I think several people will be able to relate to this movie and
find it inspiring.

Being a Huntington native I will always bleed green. GO HERD!!!! We Are
......................................... Marshall.
<|_=00=_|>
This was really a great movie for anyone that's spent time in West
Virginia. I was very surprised at some of the things McG chose to cover
in the movie. For instance, the Marshall coaching staff took a trip to
Morgantown to ask Bobby Bowden (WVU) to teach them the veer. Everyone
I've spoken to that is a WVU student or fan had no idea that happened,
nor did anyone from Huntington. Very Emotional on many levels and I
thought the writers, producers, and director really did the town of
Huntington some justice by making it as real as possible and not
"hollywoodville." There were some things that you could tell were
thrown in there to make the story more dramatic, but the story was
dramatic from the very beginning. You should really waste the 7 bucks
to see this one....cause its absolutely worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
While I understand some Marshall alumni, students, and fans may have
bitter feelings toward the movie, I do not think McG could have
produced or directed a better film! The feeling you get when watching
the movie is indescribable and can certainly touch those of us who were
not alive when the crash happened. After seeing this and crying so much
I can't even imagine what it must have been like nearly forty years
ago. It is an amazing and truly inspiring story that has touched my
heart greatly! The actors showed amazing emotions and attitudes which
honestly made the movie. This is a must see for everyone - whether you
like sports, are a WVU fan, or were around or not around when the crash
occurred.
