
This movie was not what I expected, but in a good way. I saw that Kevin
Costner was in it, and figured it would be a light-hearted drama. Then
I read that it was suspense, and figured he was a good-guy spy or
something. Not so.

I don't want to spoil exactly what Mr. Brooks is (even though it's
revealed in the early part of the movie), but let's just say he's not a
good guy. He is cold, brilliant, methodical, and heartless. Definitely
not the traits we normally expect from Kevin Costner. And yet, it's
fascinating to watch. I found myself rooting for him, and then had to
kick myself because his character is so despicable. Top notch acting
from him.

Dane Cook seems an odd casting choice for a suspense thriller, and yet
he is believable in his role as a cowardly average joe trying to get
the better of Mr. Brooks.

This movie is surprisingly graphic and brutal in some scenes. Yet it is
so engrossing that you will be hooked on every twist and turn (and
there are some good ones).

Not for the faint of heart, not your normal Costner flick, but a very
good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer for this one, and thought it was an interesting
premise, but Costner movies are so hit or miss. He's the LAST person on
earth that I'd expect to be playing a serial killer. His demeanor is
too gentle and even. WOW was I right, and that's what makes the movie.
That slow, gentle, deliberate pace gives it a surreal sense of unease
that a lesser actor couldn't match. It is exactly his everyman persona
that makes this movie work.

In the tone of the movie, I was thrown by Costner's previous work as
well. He's best known for somewhat light and under-realized fare. Mr.
Brooks is anything but. This is a very, very dark movie, to the point
that it's uncomfortable in places.

Kudos as well to William Hurt, who isn't known for playing this sort of
role either. His character could easily descend into clich√©, but it
doesn't. He holds the right note, and the chemistry between him and
Costner is tangible.

Over the top torture/gorefests have been the flavor of the month. Don't
get me wrong -- I love High Tension and it's ilk, but it's nice to see
a film that doesn't have to go for the visceral reaction to achieve
it's tension. This is an assault to the mind, not the eyes, and it's
exceptionally well done.
<|_=00=_|>
'Mr. Brooks', 2007's first true psychological thriller, features an all
star cast with Kevin Costner, Demi Moore, Dane Cook, and William Hurt.
With a thriller like this, and 2 actors (Cook and Costner) who are
playing extremely different roles, the film could have failed. It
doesn't at all. It is an extremely clever and intelligent film that is
a great ride from start to finish.

Earl Brooks (Oscar Winner Kevin Costner) is Portland's man of the year.
He has it all, a beautiful wife, a wonderful company, an awesome home,
and a daughter (Danielle Panabaker) in college. But Mr. Brooks also has
a secret. A secret addiction. He loves killing, mostly because of the
maniacal representation of his temptations and desires: Marshall (Oscar
Winner William Hurt). After one last killing, Mr. Brooks is ready to
quit, but is quickly blackmailed back into killing by the young
photographer known simply as Mr. Smith (Dane Cook). Smith just wants to
tag along for the ride to feel the rush of killing. But this murderous
trio of Brooks/Marshall/Smith must be careful, as tough-as-nails
detective Tracy Atwood (Demi Moore) is on their trail.

I know my description of the plot is thorough, but it doesn't spoil
anything, as all this is introduced within 10 to 15 minutes of the
opening. I give director Bruce Evans a lot of credit for moving the
film along quickly, because most of it is the self-inflection
conversations of Mr. Brooks and Marshall. The acting is very well done,
and with a cast like this, you should expect it. Costner has been
everyone's hero the past 2 decades, but Costner totally breaks the mold
with a daring and riveting performance as the conflicted, murderous,
yet loving Mr. Brooks. His performance really allows the audience to
root for him, even though he's a vicious killer. Costner effectively
displays internal conflicts between the good side of him, and the dark
side. William Hurt is equally haunting as Marshall, the figment of
Brooks' imagination. No stranger to villainous characters (there is no
true villain, but Costner, Cook, and Hurt's characters are all bad
men), Hurt will grab the audience's attention with his smooth and
liquid delivery and cruel responses to Mr. Brooks's regrets. Demi Moore
delivers in a role that is a type of character rarely seen in movies
anymore. Moore gives us a very flawed, yet strong woman who is the only
truly good and moral character in the entire movie. Her character has a
lot going on in her life, and it is definitely conveyed in her
impatience and quick temper, but we always know why she is how she is.
Lastly, and the biggest surprise of the entire film, Dane Cook steals
the show in one of the better performances of recent memory. Cook goes
tit for tat with Costner in every scene they share, providing some
pretty intense moments between the pair. Being the comedian he is, Cook
will get a couple of laughs, but this role is completely serious. Cook
looks like he had a lot of fun doing this, as he gives us a very
layered Mr. Smith who is very disturbed, but at the same time, we know
he's a fragile guy who is just a pawn in Mr. Brooks' master plan. Cook
will blow you away with his range, and he does a great job displaying
his character arc. Mr. Smith starts off as a sarcastic and
overconfident guy who is looking to toy with a killer. By the end of
the film, Smith changes radically into a completely different person.
Way to go Dane.

Bruce Evans does a great job at the helm of the film, providing a fast
paced psychological thriller helped out by clever dialog, and one of
the most intelligent characters portrayed on film since Hannibal Lecter
in Mr. Brooks. It's almost unreal how smart and clever Costner's
character is. Another thing I liked was the symmetry between Costner
and Hurt. The actors carry a lot of the same mannerisms into their
characters, and with the help of Evans, it looks great. There are times
where they will do the same movement at the exact same time. Mr. Brooks
is a first rate thriller that any fan of the genre should enjoy. The
plot has its twists and turns before the grand finale, which reminds
the viewer that...Mr. Brooks always has a plan...

8/10 --spy
<|_=00=_|>
The real star of this drama is the story, and the script. Costner's
portrayal of a highly complex, sometimes tortured, character is superb
in that he is seemingly always in control, always one step ahead of the
challenges. One of the best stories in some time, this one covers all
of the bases in a satisfying way, keeping the viewer completely
involved from start to finish. There are just enough plot twists,
blended seamlessly with just the right amount of predictability, to
make this story completely believable, and totally satisfying.

Mr. Brooks, Mr. Citizen, is a soft spoken, highly intelligent man of
the community, always in control of his job and family, despite the
adversities he faces throughout the movie. Very enjoyable is the
intricacy, detail, and discipline he is able to maintain throughout the
chaos that befalls him throughout the entire plot. His total control of
all of the challenges almost makes him a super hero in terms of skill
and control in the performance of his self assigned, gruesome tasks at
hand. The blending of his alter-ego, bad conscience side, Marshall, is
seamlessly accomplished in this psychological escapade, to the point
that one almost has to root for "them". Marshall, although the
psychopathic side of Brooks, is almost likable, in a twisted sort of
way. The ongoing dialog between the two is perfect, in that almost
everyone can relate to conscience issues at some point in their lives.

The added sub-plots concerning detective Demi Moore, the would be wanna
be killer Mr. Smith, and the ex-gold digging husband and his attorney,
are extra, intriguing elements that are very well done. Though told
with a considerable dark tonality because of the theme, one finds
himself cheering for Mr. Brooks and his incredible ability as a master
craftsman. Ironically, one can also cheer for the detective that is out
to capture him.

If you are ready for a story that is intriguing, suspenseful, gripping,
and present day, then this movie is a good place to start. Costner,
Moore, Cook, and Hurt are all splendid. Each one is intense, tormented,
fun, and believable in his respective role. Another positive feature
about the storyline, and it's conclusion, is that it lends itself to,
perhaps, a very interesting sequel potential. Kudos to the directors,
producers, and entire cast.
<|_=00=_|>
Bruce A. Evans' "Mr. Brooks" deserves praise for at least bringing a
certain degree of freshness to the well-worn serial-killer genre.

Kevin Costner portrays Earl Brooks, a devoted husband and father and
the recent recipient of the Portland, Oregon Man of the Year Award for
his work as a successful businessman. He also just happens to be a
cold-blooded murderer, known to the media and the law enforcement
community as the Fingerprint Killer, so named because he leaves that
telltale sign behind at each of his crime scenes (we must assume it is
not his own fingerprint, although the script never actually spells that
out for us). As the movie opens, Brooks hasn't killed anyone for two
years, having chosen to resist the temptation by attending AA meetings
and focusing on his wife and daughter. However, lately, Brooks has
begun to succumb to the pull of his "addiction," once again allowing
his darker angel to lure and goad him into seeking out unsuspecting
victims as a means of alleviating the pressure.

What separates "Mr. Brooks" from all other previous serial-killer
thrillers is that it has chosen to actually incarnate that bad angel on
screen in the form of an unnerving William Hurt, who appears by Brooks'
side at strategic moments in the movie to advise, berate and
commiserate with Brooks as he contemplates his next homicidal action.
Generally, in these movies, we rarely get a sense of the intense mental
struggle taking place within the deeply disturbed, psychotic mind of
the killer. Through the use of Hurt's character (referred to as
Marshall), however, the writers, Evans and Raynold Gideon, are able to
verbalize that conflict and show us the two warring factions
co-existing within this single warped psyche. Despite the absurdity of
it, Brooks truly believes that his "condition" can be "cured" if he
regularly and faithfully attends a self-help group for alcoholics.
Thus, against our better judgment, perhaps, we find ourselves almost
feeling sorry for the man, a position one rarely finds oneself in in a
tale such as this one.

The complex plot also includes a wannabe young killer (Dane Cook) who
blackmails Brooks into taking him out on his next killing spree; an
expert homicide investigator (Demi Moore) who was investigating the
Fingerprint Killer case until the trail turned cold; and Brooks' own
college-aged daughter, Jane (Danielle Panabaker), who may have
inherited her dad's killer "gene" and might just possibly have a murder
or two of her own to account for.

The storyline may not always pass the credibility threshold
(particularly in the suggestion that psychosis might have a genetic
component and can be passed down from generation to generation), but
the cleverness of the approach and the genuine creepiness of many of
the scenes go a long way towards mitigating the imperfections.
Moreover, Costner, Hurt, Moore and Cook give spellbinding performances
as the killer and the various persons and pseudo-persons caught in the
bloody web he has woven.

Working as a team, Costner and Hurt bring complementary opposing
qualities to their roles which, when taken together, add up to a
single, well-rounded character. In a complex variation on the Jekyll
and Hyde, Faust and Mephistopheles dichotomy, Costner conveys the
poignancy and vulnerability of the "good" Brooks, while Hurt shows us
the steely-eyed cold-heartedness of the "bad" Brooks. Yet, there are
times when even those roles switch, as when Costner coldly laughs at
the prospect of a victim's potential suffering and Hurt provides words
of comfort to a hurting Costner.

Together, the two talented stars create a complex symbiotic
relationship that lifts "Mr. Brooks" several rungs above the ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
The main thing about Mr. Brooks that I love is that it is so convincing
in its portrayal of the internal workings of a certain sort of mind,
almost as if it were an inside story. Mr. Brooks is a character who is
completely unsuspecting to anyone observing him, yet he is a completely
different person beneath the skin. He is much more complex than a lot
of mainstream audiences will realize upon first viewing. He has deep
feelings for his family, which means he's capable of deep feelings. Yet
he is completely aware of his manipulative and destructive capabilities
and intermittently cannot help himself and must take advantage of them.
I think the script is a truly brilliant rendering of a very realistic
sort of personality that is so secretive that they can be found
throughout the range of all human activity.

Kevin Costner having always been one of the most wooden actors in
contemporary movies, I am very impressed that he hit the nail on the
head with this very challenging and multi-layered character of Mr.
Brooks, and in understanding him completely knew just how much of him
to reserve for William Hurt's share, Hurt playing a figure nonexistent
to anyone in the film other than Costner, representing the deepest,
darkest thoughts of Mr. Brooks. The script and direction are very
clear-cut and discern the dialogue between Costner and Hurt as the same
character and not a split personality.

Demi Moore is affecting in her portrayal of a cop whose personal life
calls upon the part of a personality that would urge with anger towards
thoughts of murder and is able to suppress them. It's maybe my favorite
of all the performances I've seen of hers. There is lots of subtext in
what appears to be a token cop role.

The most interesting casting choice, aside from the impressive
comebacks by two aging former box-office magnets, is of comedian Dane
Cook as a blackmailing witness to one of Mr. Brooks's murders. His
character is a creative blend of voyeuristic and eagerly putzy, and
Cook pulls it off very becomingly.

As well as being a very gripping and unpredictable celebration of evil,
I think a lot of extra credit is due to this film especially for
holding its own at the box office during a summer of conglomerate
box-office hogs like the second sequels to Pirates of the Caribbean,
Shrek, Ocean's Eleven, and Spider-Man when it is actually very edgy and
takes a lot of risks as a mainstream film.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at Showest back in March and was really impressed. My
initial thought was that this movie would be a cheesy rip of "Dexter"
or any other "Behind the Serial" type of Movie/Series. Costner gives us
an interesting view into the life of an upstanding family man that just
happens to be a serial killer on the side. Dane Cook isn't his
predictable wacky self, and actually helps round out the film with his
twisted comic/perverted view of serial killing. Take every film that
you have seen by Costner, Cook and Moore and throw it out the window.
This film is surprisingly original and has plenty of plot twists to
keep you alert and anxious to see where the story will head next.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! What a great movie, was actually better than I had hoped walking
in.

The script is original and smart, with a few dark comic moments added
at the right moments. I am SO happy that "everyone" signed on to this
movie! Like or hate Dane Cook, but he did a perfect job in this roll
imo, as did everyone.

Looks like Hurt has settled into the perfect "type" of characters for
his personality. (see him in A History of Violence, and Nightmares &
Dreamscapes ep "Battleground") Was good to see Demi Moore back on the
big screen, I hope this movie helps producers and directors give her
more roles as she deserves and has the ability to do so much more imo
And finally Mr. Costner was PERFECT for this role! We can hopefully
look forward to a Mr. Brooks 2 :) A fun, interesting film that my wife
and I give 2 big thumbs up and recommend to anyone looking for a very
satisfying original thriller, done a bit differently, that executes
perfectly.

Congrats Cast & Crew on a job well done! Roland
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advanced screening for this movie tonight. I absolutely loved
it. The movie kept me on the edge of my seat all night. Kevin Costner
is extremely creepy as the villain. He played his character very well.
The scariest "bad guy," I have seen in awhile. Demi Moore was great.
Everyone in the audience laughed, gasped and cheered at the same time,
as if we were on cue. The suspense is held through out the movie. THe
amazing part is that the end was not anti-climatic. I was not
disappointed in the end. I felt satisfied. The trailer does not do the
movie justice. The movie is much better than the trailer indicated. Do
not wait for this movie to come out on video. Go see it. Although, I
did not have to pay to see this movie, I would have gladly given 10.75
to see it. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie with high hopes to see a good performance out of Kevin
Costner. He didn't disappoint in a movie that very well could have
failed--but didn't! I liked the idea of a 'nice-guy with a conscience'
serial killer theme, but serial killer movies have been done to death.
Costner and the script writers manage to give new life and a refreshing
twist on this movie theme, and William Hurt's performance as his evil
alter-ego is first-rate. This arrangement was better than just a
run-of-the-mill voice-over by Costner's character. It reminded me a bit
of a modern-day version of "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," which is one of
my favorite novels. I'm happy to see all of the actors in this film
finally get a good script and story to work with after many
disappointments for them and the movie-going public.
