
From time to time, I stumble across movies that I know nothing about,
and under normal circumstances probably wouldn't be that inclined to
see. Even as an avid horror buff, low budget titles like this tend to
slip through the net usually simply due to their lack of big name
distribution.

Let's hope that with "The Signal" however, this doesn't happen.

Why? Because this movie is powerful, thoughtful and downright
terrifying in its execution.

The movie opens with a young couple, Mya and Ben, in a tryst where it
soon becomes apparent that Mya is married but very much not in love
with her husband, Lewis.

Suddenly the TV is blasted on, transmitting a noisy psychedelic signal
which is echoed throughout every other media form from radio to mobile
phones.

Mya leaves Ben to return home to her husband only to find everyone
going crazy... possibly even her own husband. Thrown into a violent and
chaotic world, the story focuses on the three of them and the truth
about their intertwining relationship as the city of Terminus literally
goes to hell around them.

The film's three directors each take on board a different aspect of the
overlapping narrative, with the running time evenly divided into 3
parts. Transmission 1 examines the initial outbreak and its effects on
the main protagonists. Transmission 2 looks at the ensuing madness from
the perspective of one of the afflicted (a very creepy concept which is
notoriously tough to execute, but is worked to almost perfection here),
and laces it with more than just a smattering of very black humour.
Transmission 3 ties up the loose ends of the plot and weaves them all
together in order that all main characters collide in a chaotic but
much needed denouement.

Brutal, dark and completely absorbing, this grainy DV effort is always
believable and therein lies its power. In a society where media has
taken over every facet of our lives, technology is rife for abuse, and
this movie exploits that paranoia to great dividends.

This original chiller is the American equivalent of "28 Days Later"
mixed with Romero's "The Crazies" via Stephen King's novel "Cell".

Some visual and plot aspects may have suffered due to budgetary
constraints, but therein also lies its charm.

"The Signal" will surprise, thrill and terrify. In short, another
example of modern horror at its brutal and most thoughtful best.
<|_=00=_|>
After watching this movie the other night I walked out feeling like I
just watched a solid horror movie. but the more I talked about it with
friends and discussed it with other horror buffs, the more I realized
how much I love this film! 

It has all the ingredients of an instant horror classic and never gets
cliché. The first and last segment feel very similar but only because
the middle (funny chapter) is starkly different. This just makes for a
movie that ends where the audience was first captured, which is great!

Oh and did I mention it was original, not overproduced, well-written
and never leaves you thinking "ah they should have done it this way."
GREAT Movie, so refreshing.
<|_=00=_|>
Independent films have always been enjoyable to watch for me because
they normally show the real side of things, but, that not being the
point of emphasis in The Signal (hah) I was nervous about seeing it,
especially because I wasn't sure about the three different genres
mixed. But man, was I surprised! The three genres of: Section 1:
Horror. Section 2: Dark Comedy. Section 3: Science Fictions, were done
by three different directors not making contact with one another after
they had written the script and began filming. None the less, with the
fantastic and willing cast, and the offset music that plays once in a
while, these three men who wrote and directed, and I believe one helped
produce, create a masterpiece that will be a cult legend forever as
well as a movie everyone should see. BOTTOM LINE: The smoothness of
three completely different genres surprises and amazes to bring one of
the most enjoyable and momentous time at the movies this year.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this flick hearing rumors it was good, damn was that an
understatement. This movie was mind-blowing. Being an indie filmmaker
myself, I was amazed at the simple creativity, style and thought that
went into this gem. Being written and directed by three individuals had
me a little skeptical, but it definitely worked in their favour.

First off, the begginning of the film got my attention right off the
bat, It was quick, stylish and bold. The following first sequence was
just as striking. It moved with lightening pace and with intensity. The
middle section added some great dead-pan humour, that I found myself
laughing out loud at, then literally jumping back into suspense and
intensity. The last third of the film, rounded the story out in a
realistic and grim style, that also stood out on it's own. I didn't
want this movie to end.

The characters were very well developed throughout the story, and added
to the humour and chills, slipping seamlessly from humorous situations,
to the insane and horrific. The fx were excellent and not over used.

Overall, I'd have to say the story, though conceived before in other
ways, worked soo damn well here because of the way it was brought about
by the directors. Kudos to the filmmakers for a very sic,
groundbreaking and inspiring piece of work.
<|_=00=_|>
This is suspense and horror at its finest.... 

I read that some of the viewers find the second transmission to be
funny. Not for me, it was madness all over. This movie absorbed me more
then any of the latest "zombie" installations. Especially interesting
is the fact that everyone gets affected by the signal. Each in his own
way (and that's probably what some consider funny). It is not the
typical survivors versus evil thing. Everyone fights against his own
paranoia here, snapping in and out of reality. 

Plenty of gore but they do not go over the top with it. Pacing is good,
camera is good (no shaky stuff here) and i liked the minimalistic
distortion effects. 

It might be a bit confusing for some to watch, because the storytelling
is not straight forward. Lots of jumps between timelines and
hallucinations from the protagonists, i loved it. 

It's like a LSD trip gone wrong...

All three directors are on my watchlist now, thanks for this nice piece
of work. Any horror buff should try it, this is some solid stuff.

Gimme more !!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was definitely an amazing find. I received tickets online to
go to a showing at the local Magnolia theater, which only shows Indie
films. It was definitely worth driving through an hour and a half of
traffic to see this film. The movie turns to three different directions
but keeps the plot on track most of the time. It's by three different
directors who all have their own styles that work for this film. The
first segment, the director does a great job introducing us to the
characters and setting up the universe for us. the second director has
a hilarious sense of humor that definitely show us the "Crazy" in these
crazy people, and almost makes us sympathize with these killers. And
the third director brings us back to the action, and takes the audience
down a winding and twisting crooked road that doesn't stop until the
credits start. I was so glad to hear that this was getting a national
release and I hope that people will go see this and experience a truly
terrifying, but surprisingly humorous, scary movie.

Kego
<|_=00=_|>
On New Year's Eve 2007, regular programming has been indefinitely
interrupted.

A signal is being transmitted to every TV, cell phone, and radio. This
transmission has a powerful effect on anyone who watches it or listens
to it. It strips away self-control, plays on your paranoia, and makes
even the most brutal of murders appear rational. Three people--a wife,
a husband and a lover--all deal with this feral disorder in three, very
different ways. This film brilliantly and brutally tells each of their
stories. After the various transmissions of The Signal, chaos, murder,
and mayhem ensue. 

Usually, when you are about to watch a low-budget horror movie, your
excited anticipation at watching a new horror flick is very often
marred by a bit of dread. Almost invariably, the viewer is going to
have to overlook bad acting, stilted dialogue, and clichéd plot twists.
Unfortunately, these pitfalls have come to be synonymous with
moderately-financed movies. Having said this, now and again, a movie
comes along which changes your mind about low-budget film-making. The
Signal is one such movie, the acting is superb, the writing is
innovative and compelling, and the dialogue delivers many a quotable
line: 

"Do you have 'the Crazy?'" Transmission 1  Crazy in Love, directed by
David Bruckner. This part of the film tells us the story of Mya, the
wife, and her story becomes, by far, the darkest part of the tale. This
section is shot in such a way that it has a voyeuristic quality to it.
The viewer does not feel as if they are watching a film, but rather,
that they are observing Mya, as the initial effects of The Signal are
startlingly revealed.

"You're not my husband, you're a homicidal maniac." Transmission 2 
Jealousy Monster, directed by Jacob Gentry. This is the most surreal
part of the film, as we see the world through Lewis's eyes. Of course,
he is the jealous husband and is most obviously affected by The Signal.
Gentry's transcendent use of nonlinear storytelling, along with his
dark humour, gives us a gruesome glimpse into the mind of a maniac.
And, even though Lewis has a habit of killing people by battering them
to death with a fire extinguisher, you do, kinda, feel for the guy.

"You are aware that you are having a conversation with a decapitated
head." Transmission 3  Escape from Terminus, directed by Dan Bush.
And, finally, there is Dan's story, aka the Lover. In the final
transmission, the line between good and evil becomes the most blurred
that it has been since the start of the film. This epilogue hammers the
message home, that no one is safe from The Signal. Viewers find
themselves asking, "Who is the bad guy, who is the husband, who is the
lover, who is dead, and who is alive? To all these questions, there is
no definitive answer. The optimists among us will interpret the ending
as a "love conquers all, kind-of," deal. And, cynics will view it as
just the beginning of the last, great apocalypse, one in which man's
inherent fears and paranoias, with a little help from some malevolent
technology, will destroy all humankind. Transmission 3 is a very
suitable, ambiguous ending to a first-rate horror film.

Each transmission has a very different style, and some viewers may
think this adds up to a disjointed narrative. However, I wholeheartedly
disagree with this conclusion. As each story is told from a different
perspective, it makes sense that the filmmakers should employ different
techniques to portray their characters' personalities and varying
descents into madness. 

The Signal is the most original, thought-provoking horror movie of the
past decade. This film is wickedly witty and pleasingly perverse. Its
writers and directors are very adept at their craft, and this film is a
shining example of its genre, regardless of budget. In short, The
Signal is a sublime example of film-making and is worthy of major
distribution.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a decent, if not original, idea at the heart of this movie, but
the film makers are trying too hard to be arty and clever for it to
ever really work.

Telling the story in three parts is a terrible idea. It's such a basic
story that's being told that it feels more like a way to extend it to
feature length than a worthwhile method of story telling. Part 1 is
dark and brooding, part 2 is like a comedy and part 3 tries - but fails
- to tie the whole thing together.

I liked part 1. It had a great atmosphere and such a feeling of dread
that's it's the only part of this 'horror' movie that even approached
being scary. It's also getting somewhere when it cuts to part 2, which
is so tonally different that it's like a different movie. Don't get me
wrong, I liked part 2, but it would have been better on it's own rather
than lodged haphazardly between the far more similar parts 1 and 3.

Part 3 struggled to do something and provide a satisfying conclusion.
The trouble was that this movie went from the madness caused by the
signal turning people into homicidal maniacs into people who talk at
random and don't know what's happening. Add the misplaced cutaways and
editing tricks and it just becomes a confusing mess. The end just
fizzles out and its unsatisfying, muddled and dull nature just about
sums up the movie.

Having these three parts as three separate stories would have made for
a better experience overall. The main story could have easily been told
in Part 1, Part 2 (with a few tweaks) could have stayed the same and
then Part 3 could have been a proper finale rather then the delay of
something that could have happened an hour beforehand.

The best part of this movie can be found much better elsewhere. The
acting was all over the place, with some pretty bad examples on show
(unfortunately including a character who appears predominantly in all 3
parts)

I really did want to like this film, but I just can't do it. A nice
effort, but just not a very good result.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is being hailed as one of the greatest horror films of all
time. It is not. The film makers had a great idea, but did not develop
that idea, leaving way too much up to the imagination of the viewer. I
like using my imagination, but this felt more like a cop-out. There's
no how/why, and that is a glaring omission that ruins the movie. If
they had fully developed their idea, this could have been a great
flick, but as it is, it's really more frustrating then it is enjoyable.
I could probably sit here and create a back-story for the signal,
explaining it's origin and raison d'etre, but I'm a movie-goer, not a
movie-maker, and while the premise of this movie is interesting (if not
a little unoriginal - Stephen King's 'The Cell' anyone?) the movie
itself is a half assed disappointment that leaves much to be desired.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "The Signal" last night at SXSW and it was very good. 

Somewhat mysterious, lots of tension, lots of suspense. Gore was
omnipresent, with everyone wearing some amount of blood splatter by the
end of the first act and throughout the rest of the film. This is the
first movie, since The Shining, that made me want to cover my eyes for
anticipated gruesomeness. I didn't and I'm glad I didn't miss a frame
of this compelling story. The eponymous "signal" is an unexplained
transmission over TVs, cell phones, radios, etc. that causes the
viewer/listener to "get the crazy" and become very violent. The Signal
causes people to believe that their murders are "rational", it causes
realistic hallucinations and a violent reactions seem to be
appropriate. It seemed to allow people to overcome their humanity and
act out violent impulsive urges. However, as strange as it may sound,
at it's heart, what moves the story forward is love.
