
From what I understand, Fox was embarrassed they released a PG-13
Alien/Predator movie not so long ago. It was not well received by any
means.

Not exactly sure where to go next, seeing as they thought Anderson was
the best director for the franchise and they had produced a true sci-fi
gem, Fox turned to it's small, but knowledgeable group of monkeys for
answers.

These monkeys were by no means veterans of writing sci-fi flicks, but
had seen Burton's Planet of the Apes remake and House of the Dead. 

Their first task: hire actors. Fox gave them a reasonable budget but
the monkeys wanted to save the money. They hired fifteen TV actors
shortly after.

Now, the script. The monkeys wanted to save more of the budget so they
wrote the movie themselves. Leaving out important aspects of the two
franchises was the easy part. Thinking of great new lines for the
general audience to remember years down the line - that was more
difficult. They butted heads awhile and came up with a truly
award-winning screenplay equipped with cliché characters, idiotic
decisions an gaping plot holes.

Fox was pleased thus far with the results but wanted to see what was to
become of the centerpieces to the film - the aliens and predators. The
monkeys again wanted to save money in the budget so they decided to
trash the great robotics used in the otherwise terrible AvP original
and go with the man-in-the-suit Alien seen in the old films. The actors
playing the aliens had trouble fitting into the suits as they weren't
properly sized by the monkeys so they jiggled their plastic heads
throughout the film with honor. As for the predators, the monkeys
decided one predator was enough this time around (again, saving budget)
to fight the hordes of aliens that seemingly come out of nowhere. 

But what about the effects, you ask? Come on now, people. They may be
monkeys but they clearly knew CGI would play a key role in the film.
Without diving into the budget, the monkeys used a standard Final Cut
program and cut and pasted some very nice fire and spark effects
throughout. Putting red and green filters over the camera lens provided
some excellent Predator visions.

The setting was something the monkeys thought long and hard about. If
this was to be on Earth, in Colorado of all places, they needed to make
it realistic. This was where they admitted they might have made a
mistake. See, the monkeys didn't have proper training in this
department so they thought turning the lights off in the city and
having the movie play out in the dead of night and in the rain was the
right thing to do. They simply forgot people like to see the creatures
instead of looking at shadows and rain the whole film. To add insult to
injury, the monkeys accidentally filmed all the fight scenes incredibly
close so no one could see what was fighting or who it was. But again,
rookie mistake.

The rating. Fox told the monkeys to make the movie R-rated. That was
easy. Without showing how many of the injuries or deaths actually
happened, the monkeys made a habit of showing the carnage after the
fact. It was simple: the viewers got the gore they desired and the
monkeys didn't have to film the majority of action shots involving that
violence.

Some of the actors originally had questions concerning the screenplay.
Why does a blue liquid the Predator has endless amounts of magically
disintegrate whatever he wants it to and nothing more than that? Why is
an ex-convict driving around in a police car the entire movie? Why did
the monkeys forget to show a full body shot of the Aliens? Why does a
clock play a more memorable role than any of the main characters? The
list of questions just kept growing but the monkeys ignored them and
finished their masterpiece. 

Fox was thrilled with their work. So thrilled that they opened the
movie nationwide on Christmas Day and even spent a few bucks
advertising it the week before it came out. The monkeys had
successfully made another installment in these cherished franchises.

But some ask, what ever happened to the budget the monkeys forgot to
use? They put it towards their next film: Aliens vs. Predator vs. Hulk
Hogan. They knew the general public would be upset with the title but
they have since released this statement:

"To the people- do not worry about our upcoming film. It will be rated
R and will have violence."

And everyone lived happily ever after. The end.
<|_=00=_|>
I love B movies, but I like to be aware from the beginning that I'm
watching one. I can't believe someone could mess up a movie about
aliens and predators so bad. 

Aliens and Predator are AWESOME. This movie made a big joke out of
them. The creators didn't take this movie seriously at all. I am
throughly disappointed in how the Strauss jerks handled this film. They
made a mockery of amazing characters. It's like they were trying to be
serious in the beginning, then their writers got high and gave up.
Almost nothing was continuous, the main characters were awful and were
NOT Aliens or Predators. I am so ridiculously sad that no one takes
Alien and Predators seriously anymore. These characters are icons of
American pop culture and the creators of this movie showed no respect
to the original films. They should not be allowed to cash in on the
names of the previous films and they should be ashamed of themselves
<|_=00=_|>
9 stars out of 10 seems pretty ridiculous for a movie that has the most
threadbare of plots and the most two-dimensional of characters. Make no
mistake: AvP:R is a terrible, terrible film.

But it is an AWESOME movie. Anyone who goes to this expecting anything
other than absolute, mindless, relentless carnage deserves what they
get. Those of you who really just wanted to see a movie with aliens and
predators wrecking crap and each other will have a blast.

The movie is a checklist of clichés, gimmicks, and devices. But more
than that, it's a checklist of all the superficial crap fans want to
see. Ever wonder if an alien's retractable jaws can punch through a
safety helmet? NOW YOU KNOW! There is no logic or sense, rhyme or
reason to this movie. But it IS loaded to the gills with violence. It's
ridiculously, over-the-top, gloriously violent. Every time you get sick
of the plot or characters, something dies. Even if you count JUST kids
in the movie, there are still five kills (counting kids in utero at
least) alone. Let me be clear: they killed pregnant women and children.
It is hilariously, cartoonishly violent.

This is the Looney Tunes of the Alien and Predator franchises. It is
modern grand guignol. It is GLORIOUS.
<|_=00=_|>
I really, really don't understand how that movie could get a rating
bigger than 4 here on IMDb. It's simply a huge mess, and I have to
admit that I actually liked AvP 1: Close to no story, okay, I can live
with that, but at least they got to the point pretty much at once. AvP
2 does not. After the stupid premise has been presented there is well
over half an hour of stupid and unfitting teenager clichés, dumb as
hell dialog and close to nothing else, except for a few Alien scenes
that feel like an excuse to have that first half of the movie and
Predator scenes that make you ask yourself whether those guys making
the film even watched any other Predator movie or just didn't care
enough to be bothered.

After that, that crap-fest finally gets to the point where the Predator
starts attacking the Aliens, or at least pretends doing so. And boy, is
that Predator stupid, blind and deaf. It's awful. How he even managed
to earn that stuff he has is beyond me. He misses with almost every
shot, only notices Aliens when they're right in his face or if it's
absolutely necessary for the script, so that he can move where he has
to be. He even gets caught on surprise by puny human teenagers and
deputies all of the time. What's that guy supposed to be? After the
first hour of that abomination I was more or less constantly shaking my
head at every scene. Close to no scene in this movie passes by without
unbelievably stupid dialogs, stupid Predator actions or stupid lack
there-of or stupid actions from our "heroes".

Then, that thing finally ended. To my surprise not only me and my
friends didn't know whether to laugh or to cry, but everybody I
overheard leaving the room was half-crying, half-laughing about those 1
1/2 hours they just wasted.

Don't watch. Never.
<|_=00=_|>
I was psyched to go see this movie. I was not a fan of the first AvP
and I like so many others, chalked its awfulness up to being rated PG
13 and focusing on the human side of the story. Once I saw that red R
glistening after the AvP, I was excited. As it turns out, I was wrong.
Certainly there is a good amount of gore in AvPR, melting limbs,
dismemberments, even some violence against children. The Predator is
once again, the most bad-ass extraterrestrial on Earth, and it was fun
to see the infamous predalien. But the movie just sucks. I tried really
hard to look past its gaping plot holes, inane dialogue, and vapid
characters, and I pretty much succeeded in not letting those
inadequacies bother me. It was the pacing and the lack of tension that
killed the movie for me. There was no sense of dread in the flick, no
impending doom or even a sense of diabolical hunt. It just, sort of,
happened, and then was over. Some fun homages to the originals: amongst
them the return of the all-time great line: "Get to the chopper!" And
again, some fun blood and executions, but no tension, no dread, no guts
in the otherwise bloody film.
<|_=00=_|>
This entry doesn't contain a spoiler. It doesn't have to. The movie is
as predictable as the sunrise. The element in the first Alien movies
was the suspense that something COULD happen. This was so in the first
two Predator movies, though less prevalent. Requiem has totally removed
the element of suspense and replaced it with blood and gore. You know
people are going to die (well duh, it is a AvsP movie), but you know
WHO is going to die and WHEN they are going to die, AND WHERE they are
going to die before it happens. The directors should take a lesson from
Hitchcock who said, "Suspense is not a time bomb going off under a
table. Suspense is a bomb NOT going off under the table". What's the
sense in going to a movie when you know exactly what is going to happen
and when? If you really, really want to watch this movie, wait until it
comes out on video and then RENT IT, but by no means would I ever buy
it.
<|_=00=_|>
The review on the main page admits that the movie is horrible but that
you should forgive it because it is nicely violent. No you shouldn't.
There are spoilers at the end of this review but how I can "spoil" this
rotten movie I have no idea. Even if you are a die hard Alien/Pred fan
like I am wait for the DVD. It isn't worth a 3.99 rental either but
you'll be much less inclined to truly hate this film if you pay that
than 12 bucks or better per person plus concession purchases at a
theater.

In the theater I watched AVPr there were exactly two laughs, both by a
girl sitting next to me. Other than that there was total silence
throughout. No ooohs, or "that was bad ass!", nothing. Imagine being a
patient on an operating table and just being given the anesthetic. Now
you know what you'll feel like in the theater after the opening scene
of AVPr.

What was the budget on this movie? Like War of the Worlds, MI 3, and
other f/x driven movies the director seems far more involved in what
the CGI people can come up with than developing characters or a plot.
Spielberg has tried and failed at this several times, usually with Tom
Cruise. Sure the movies make money but should they? War of the Worlds
and Minority Report had the budget to pay for a decent script, Tom
Cruise et al, and SS himself but were still awful. I'm sure AVP wasted
90% of their budget on CG and had no choice but to hire any actor that
would say yes even though the casting agent would have done better by
going to the supermarket and picking actors at random.

There is no tension developed in any scene so we are never close to
being surprised. Who cares who gets killed? We didn't know any of them,
we all know what happens when the lil aliens make their corporeal exit,
we all know the blood is acid. In Alien, Aliens, 3, Resurrection, and
even AVP the directors make use of the fact that the Aliens can think,
can hide and can lay traps. This director decided that the Ridley
Scott, James Cameron, and others were idiots for developing characters
you actually want to see either live or get killed. In this installment
you will never care who lives or dies, not a kid, a parent, a pregnant
woman. The characters serve only one purpose in this movie, to die. The
opening scenes establish the fact that the movie is going to be a
predictable joke. The character development scenes mix clichés, bad
humor, and bad acting and numb the viewer to the point where we really
don't care if they get killed so long as they die in never before seen
ways. But they don't. The director tried to make something different
from those who preceded him in the Alien franchise but only succeeded
in discarding the good parts of the first films, the human
protagonists, and stealing the rest from other recent sci-fi films.

There is not one original use of the either the Alien or Pred
characters. The Pred actually has little trouble killing Aliens by the
dozen even though the last movie led us to believe that Pred revered
the Aliens as such a deadly foe that they used the killing of one as
Rite of Passage. The AlienPred is never really developed as a fearsome
creature. Its ability to inject parasites into a host is ripped from
several different movies most recently probably was Hellboy where
Samiel's dismembered tongue injected eggs into Hellboy or Doom where
the mutated creatures would leave their tongues behind after they
speared a victim's throat.

Simply put we aren't given reason to care about anything in this movie.
There is violence but it doesn't shock or surprise and is nothing that
hasn't been seen in any of a hundred slasher flicks. The CG is OK and
both species of alien are made to look and move as they have in movies
past. But since the characters are never developed and the acting is so
bad we kind of hope that they all die. The little girl was probably the
best actor of the bunch but sadly we aren't made to care whether or not
kids, women, or anyone else lives or dies. We just want the movie to
end. Eventually it does but not before another stolen plot line from
Resident Evil 2 has a nuke aim Gunnison's way to wipe out the
"infection". And not before yet another stupid scene that is supposed
to open the door for further sequels but does it? In a movie filled
with bad scenes the worst may have been saved for last.

Sorry for the repetition but everything bears repeating: bad script, no
plot, unoriginal action scenes, uninspired direction, abysmal acting,
decent f/x that were wasted because of the many flaws.

I don't mind going to an indie film and being disappointed. The actors
and directors and crew are probably getting their careers going and
working on a shoestring budget. For a movie with this type of budget
and hype I feel cheated along with disappointed. This movie is a
painfully boring waste of time from the opening scene to closing
credits. Sad to say that a preview of Hellboy 2 was the best part of
AVPr and HB2 didn't even look that good.
<|_=00=_|>
The production value of AvP2 can be described by one adjective: AWFUL

The script is ridiculous, even in the fictional area of AvP: What are
the facehuggers good for on the Predator's ship? Why is the Predator
cleaning up all signs of his influence and than wasting precious time
with eviscerating and even presenting the body of an insignificant
human cop? Why is the Predator alone? Why is the Predator equipping
himself only on earth but on his home planet? Why does the Predator
make his job so uneasy for himself by hunting down the Aliens rather
than bombing the whole countryside like the humans do in the end? Why
is the Predator dropping more & more of his few weapons rather than
collecting them to keep them together after using one. In the end he is
even dropping his armor before fighting the Predalien in hand to hand
combat: what a bad plagiarism of the first predators final fight
between Arny and the Predator. The Predator's gestures are so
exaggerated that he is moving more like a Japanese sumo than like
highly skilled extraterrestrial-safari-hunter. As one can see
immediately the whole story is a mess. But it gets even worse because
this botched-up job is filled up with boring patchwork of senseless
interludes like a lengthy pizza ordering episode or some detailed
information about the criminal past of the two brothers (Dallas &
Ricky). The Sheriff is of course the friend of these two criminals who
he puts regularly behind bars. (not convincing & absolutely superfluous
for the plot).

In addition to that the cast of actors is horrible. Compared to the
high class of directors & actors of the former Aliens or Predator
movies AvP2 is an embarrassingly bad piece of crap.

At last the action of the movie is really poor. There is not a single
scene of action combat in which the audience can see the whole set.
Each and every fight is filmed in short & shaky bursts with close up
zoom at nearly full darkness. That results in an atrocious experience
for the audience because one can mostly see nothing but a dark shaky
screen.

I suggest the two directing brothers Strause to buy themselves a
steadycam and get a lesson in modern CG so that the next film contains
some visible action of visible figures and might not need to disguise
their bad directing abilities in such a manner.

I would advise anybody (even die hard AvP fans) against watching this
film: prefer the first one or the original Aliens or the original
Predator films but avoid disappointing yourself by wasting your
precious time on this failure.
<|_=00=_|>
There was a time when the Alien series was a success with even the
third installment, Alien 3, showing promise under the guild of a fresh
and young David Fincher. The first Predator was a box office hit mainly
due to its story, "in peak" star Arnold Schwarzenegger and director
John McTiernan (Die Hard). The films Alien, Aliens, Alien 3 and
Predator were all highly successful and created massive followings
among general film fans and science fiction fans alike. Arguably
Predator 2 and Alien Resurrection should have signaled the end for both
franchises, but studios were undeterred and saw the opportunity to
pander to the rumours among fans and combine the two. Step in Paul W.S
Anderson, Alien Vs Predator, and now the Brothers Strauss (visual
effects graduates, not even directors or writers). The problem was that
by allowing such profound and revolutionary creations of the Sci-Fi
genre to fall into the hands of firstly a mediocre director and now
directorial newbie's has led to nothing more than profanity, epitomised
by incompetence. Upon witnessing Alien Vs Predator Requiem (AVPR)
die-hard fans will feel sick to their stomachs that this series could
have got any worse.

One example of the cinematic deterioration of this franchise is in the
opening scene and is likely to cause nausea among fans. The film begins
with an Alien making its way onto the Predator ship, spurting from the
predators chest, growing in to a full grown Predalien and bringing down
the Predator craft (which now seems to have far less Predators on it
than it did at the end of Alien Vs Predator) and all this occurs with
the ship still in Earths atmosphere. Once the ship has crashed AVPR
quickly resorts to cheap plot methods and basic narrative conventions,
it makes no venture at utilizing any of the twists or subversions
served up in the two original films. The wearisome plot progresses with
tedious pace, punctuated only by the near rousing conflicts of Alien
and Predator and when that runs the risk of boring us we are treated to
either an alluring blonde in a bikini or rapid gunfire. AVPR is plagued
by an endless array of continuity errors and plot holes with little or
no narrative elucidation i.e. members of the public outwitting an elite
military unit or the Predator not adhering to laws established in
previous editions. This is a film that has a complete disregard for its
predecessors, it breaks some of the most fundamental rules of a sequel
and in doing so one gets the feeling that it is trying to set itself up
as a stand alone feature. Independently the film has no heart, no
conviction and no soul and with reference to the other films lacks even
the most basic continuity. This is exemplified by the over arching
narrative of the film as it undermines the basic premise of the first
Alien. Because if the species had been encountered before then those in
the first Alien film would have been more proficient and not so ill
prepared when encountering them.

On a cinematic note the film is close to being dire, I felt urged at
some points to shine a torch at the screen, the lighting was so bad.
Through utilizing such gloomy and dark effects the audience may feel as
though they are being cheated out of some the action  which is
ironically its purpose and also indicates the films lack of budget. As
with all science fiction one scene normally surfaces as being the most
memorable, in this instance it is probably the hospital impregnation
scene as it ever so tenuously draws on the themes of the original Alien
by literalizing it. The directing is poor, performances weak and the
script rotten. AVPR is the product of a conveyor belt system of
film-making in which ideas and techniques are assembled by ineffective
people and then the finished product distributed among cinemas. This is
personified by the absence of gory death scenes and drawn out blood
battles because the certification will not allow it  a lower
certification achieving a larger target audience. AVPR was purely a
business venture and nothing more.
<|_=00=_|>
This film and the 1st AvP film both all over the whole Aliens and
Predator franchise.

They are awful films, badly acted, badly scripted and terribly
directed. They just seem like someones desperate attempt to make money
off of the good name of the original aliens and predator films but
instead of delivering a well thought out, quality production, they came
up with the predaturd.

The original Alien/Aliens/Predator/Predator 2 films were great, they
redefined the horror/thriller genre by inventing these insane (and yet
still believable) creatures who took the role of the 'serial killer',
as opposed to a human. 

These films are just milking the franchise and do nothing but darken
its name.

The Aliens vs Predator comic books were brilliant and had a great
story. They were true to the Alien/Predator mythology, didn't crap all
over the original stories etc... Why didn't they make the comic book
into a great film? Because Hollywood are idiots, thats why.
