
Everything works in this movie : The direction, the acting, the
shooting, the story and the script - one commentators claimed that it
was limited and one dimensional but it is quite on the contrary : the
script was written very elegantly with quite a lot of subtelties and
these would probably be missed by those who are used the usual wham
bahm great Hollywood films.

The only (small) flaw in the film was its so called "feministic"
flavour, it was completely unnecessary - any, if all, "politically
correct messages", would have been understood from the story itself -
there was no need to shove it in the audience face.

All in all this movie is intelligent, interesting and exciting. I
highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watch this movie last night and let me say that I thought the
movie was terrific. Since the movie hasn't even premiered in the US or
Europe, I was hesitated because there were no reviews at all out there.
But I'm glad to say that I enjoyed every minute of it.

The story is set in the 1960s, so don't expect the heist to be
high-tech or complicated like the Ocean's series, Entrapment or The
Italian Job. The real gem in the movie is the way it explains itself,
all in good timing - it's nice to see a movie that still makes its
viewers guessing.

Demi Moore and Michael Caine did a good job, and so is the supporting
characters, played by Lambert Wilson and Joss Ackland. I am surprised
however that Demi Moore can carried the whole movie, she was
practically almost in every scene, and she proved that given the right
material, she can make the viewers empathize with her. I certainly felt
cheated, nervous and uneasy during the last half of the film, just like
her character did.

If you appreciate a smart, subtle and entertaining movie, this is the
movie for you. I highly recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>
I recall some woefully erroneous movie critic writing about Michael
Caine in the late 1960s that Caine was the sort of actor whose career
would have three brief stages: 1. Get me Michael Caine; 2. Get me a
Michael Caine type; 3. Who is Michael Caine? Needless to say, that
movie critic is now long gone and forgotten, while Michael Caine has
simply gotten better and better, aging like fine wine. This is not a
big "message" movie, or a huge budget extravaganza, but rather it is an
extremely well-made and entertaining and suspenseful crime film with
very human characters you can really care about. It is set in 1960
England, in which Caine, a janitor, attempts a spectacular robbery of
precious jewels. With the able support of Demi Moore, in one of her
best performances, and the fine direction of Michael Radford, and a
wonderful attention to the little details that make a film so much
better, FLAWLESS is very much worth the price of admission. And Mr.
Caine, with his finely nuanced performance, a man who can make a glance
or a subtle movement speak more than a ton of histrionics by lesser
actors, is topping the bill. Need I say more?
<|_=00=_|>
This is a well done film with Michael Caine and the not so young Demi
Moore. Regardless of their ages, the depth of the characters puts
together a timid plot to make an enjoyable film, with a feel good film/
story. Okay for a night to replace boredom with small laughing
outbursts on the quirkiness of subtle underlying jokes. It is a slow
movie to begin, and is so through out the rest of it, but it does it in
such a way to continue the growing curiosity and find out the sum of
the show from the small twists and plays of the storyline. It is mostly
the lovable character (Caine) that keeps the viewer involved so deeply
in the story, also his lost but not forgotten past. It leads to a
clich√© ending but still very acceptable in my view. And the actor whom
plays Mr.Finch also plays the Merovingian from The Matrix. A small plus
to see his acting career develop and hopefully become more mainstream.
<|_=00=_|>
Flawless? Not Quite, but it is certainly a little heist gem. This year,
with so far a fairly disappointing turnout of high calibre movies, a
very narrow niche has been reinvigorated. That little slice of the
celluloid pie (mmmm, sounds good) belongs to the British heist flick.
With The Bank Job, and now with Flawless, this could mark the beginning
of a revamp of all capper films to follow. Or at least we can hope.

Directed by Michael Radford, who has had little mainstream
acknowledgment, (save perhaps the star studded Merchant of Venice)
makes his shove into the limelight with a film although never destined
to make the big bucks, hopefully at least will be sought out by some.
Similarly to The Bank Job, Flawless concentrates more on atmosphere and
character development then flashy drawn out robbery sequences, although
that can most defiantly be rewarding, as seen in The Italian Job. The
opening sequence is a hybrid of Blood Diamond and Lord of War, showing
the journey of a diamond from a muddy African field to a throne atop a
ladies dainty finger. This film has similar political views to that of
Blood Diamond, and such morals are imbedded into multiple facets of the
story. It also has elements of Pay it Forward, numerous cat and mouse
thrillers, even a scene reminiscent of the opening monologue of
Titanic. But as such, Flawless never rips of any of these films, and
instead, combines a number of classic elements to create a riveting and
original picture.

Most heist films either follow a straightforward narrative, where we
follow key characters as they assemble their teams, and carry out the
theft or, the other broad characterization is to opt for a scattered
chronology, beginning with the hero in prison, where their fate is
(sometimes) certain. Flawless manages to incorporate wisps' of both
these narrative flows, and is better off because of it. Set in 60's
London, we meet Michael Caine, who plays janitor "Mr Hobbs", a 15-year
veteran employee of the largest supplier of diamonds at the time, The
London Diamond Corporation. Still coping with the loss of his wife, he
recruits the help of American Laura Quinn (Demi Moore), who is a sour
senior administrator; sour because she has been passed up for promotion
one too many times. (In addition to the fact that she learns she will
be terminated shortly) Using their opposite shift work and positions to
their advantage, they plan to steal enough diamonds to live their lives
out in comfort.

Demi Moore has never been much of an actress, but despite her slipping
English accent, she gives probably her best performance to date, fading
into her role, and for once, playing a character that looks their age.
The problem with her character is not with Moore's performance but with
how she is presented; unsympathetic and shrill. She always seems
unwilling and bitchy, which could be partly due to the stark contrast
between Moore and her male counterpart's composure and cool. That
"male" of course being Michael Caine, who is solid as always and makes
for a very atypical criminal which is part of the films charm. He is
sweet, old and can barely walk, but his history (which does not include
training for a career in janitorial work) makes him a formidable foe.
We get nice supporting work from the always devilish Lambert Wilson,
who we all remember as The Merovingian from The Matrix Reloaded, as the
internal investigator and from Joss Ackland as one of London Diamond's
heads and who is a powerfully menacing figure. (He played Arjen Rudd,
the evil African diplomat in Lethal Weapon II)

Flawless has a good feel for the times, in reference to the setting,
clothing, dialogue, etc. The inevitable twist that is associated with
almost all heist films stands alone in its uniqueness, which you will
have to see to truly understand why it is different. Director Radford
gives us some powerful sequences; one which perfectly captures the
political intentions of the film involves Michael Caine's character
tossing one of the largest cut diamonds in the world into a bin of tiny
uncut stones, which the executives wouldn't floss their teeth with. It
is a vivid reminder of what diamonds really are, and what we are
willing to give and do for such.

Destined to be a ghost in the theatres, this is definitely a film to
scrounge for on DVD shelves. Presenting emotionally charged and
involving performances and extracting a blind-siding twist from a
source which I though must have been drained years ago, Flawless is a
solid and intellectually stimulating movie experience.

View all my reviews at Simon Says Movie Reviews:
www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
If you are looking for car chases, kidnappings, and violence- you won't
like this little gem (can't resist the pun) of a heist movie. Instead
you have a clever plot that unwinds in small and subtle bits, like a
trail of bread crumbs. Just when you think you have it figured out,
another quiet twist sets your theories spinning again.

It keeps you on the edge of your seat, not because you are afraid of
the next gun fight or bomb blast (there are none) but because you care
about the characters and what happens to them. The casting is perfect,
with Moore as the smart, strong, but emotionally stoic diamond manager;
and Caine as the simple janitor with a brilliant plan. It was
refreshing to have the "relationship" between the male and female lead
not be a romantic one- there are so many more dimensions to human
interactions.

While this movie is appropriate for the whole family, it may be too
subtle to hold the interest of younger audiences. Also its themes- a
woman in a man's world, career disappointment, mourning a lost love-
are not themes that children relate to. A movie my boyfriend and I both
enjoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably THE BEST heist movies without all the cutting edge gadgets and
eye-candy CGIs. Brilliant execution, this movie proves again that a
heist movie can be pulled off only with a good story and plot and good
acting as well as direction along with camera-work. When I started to
watch this movie, the first thought that came to my mind was, here we
go again another heist movie with a diabolical plan or to take revenge
on the company that terminated you. But don't know why, still hanged on
and thank god, I did. Otherwise I would have never known how old wine
can be presented in new bottle while making it more better. Hey!!! what
are you still doing reading this boring comment, shuuu!!, go!!! and
watch the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Flawless is a charming, tense, and nicely executed caper movie.

I had absolutely no idea how the robbery was done until the revelation:
and, like most of us, I have watched enough heist movies to quickly go
"Yup, got it!", more often than not, but not here.

Excellent understated performances from Demi Moore and Michael Caine,
especially in the small facial gestures when stressed and so on. The
settings etc; all add to a nice retro feel. You really get a sense that
they tried hard to build the 1960s into this - very buttoned-down, very
regimented, a very male world. 

One of the major attractions for us was that the sense of pace builds
slowly - and compared to the Bank Job I have to say this is the better
movie.

All in all a clever, entertaining film, with a good script and very
nice central performances, and even a human message.

Definitely recommended
<|_=00=_|>
Start with two of the most reviled yet tolerated institutions: diamond
broking and large insurance underwriting. Spin a story around these
heartless institutions getting their "just comeuppance". Justice is
served by two very different individuals who quite remarkably find
themselves in this extraordinary situation. Singularly they wield no
power over such old established hallmarks, yet together they bring
these "takers" to their knees.

Speaking of together, Michael Caine continues his low key return to
excellent work ever since Ciderhouse Rules. He's great here and
surprise...Demi Moore is spot-on in her portrayal as the brilliant, yet
stepped-on lone female executive who sacrificed too much before she
realized too late it was for naught. These two elevate the all ready
good story to great heights.

Special mention is due to the set design. It really nails the 60's-some
of which I recall and all of which looks totally appropriate. The
directing is most excellent too as it builds the story slowly, never
revealing too much, and allows the tension to slowly mount. The movie
has a quite satisfying ending that you really couldn't figure out
exactly until it too was revealed. Really a great movie, highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in London in 1960, the aptly named "Flawless" features Demi Moore
as Laura Quinn, the first woman to become senior negotiator at Lon Di,
the world's premier diamond firm. However, Quinn has pretty much hit
the glass ceiling career-wise with the company, and when she discovers
that she is about to be let go from the firm, she agrees to join forces
with the night janitor (Michael Caine) in his plan to rob the vault of
a thermos-full of uncut diamonds.

"Flawless" is a good old-fashioned caper tale done with an abundance of
wit, intelligence and style and just enough twists and turns in the
plot to keep the audience on its toes throughout. Moore and Caine make
a perfect team as the duo plotting the heist, while director Michael
Radford generates enough suspense for a dozen average thrillers. The
script by Edward Anderson even manages to squeeze in some points about
early '60's feminism and South African apartheid along the way.

Definitely worth seeing.
