
I took my 9yo and 7yo to see it while a friend of mine with a 5yo did
not want to expose her child to a PG movie. Honestly, Tom & Jerry, Road
Runner, and Popeye cartoons are 10x more violent than this. It easily
could have been G rated. The violence was very mild. The movie was
pretty good with some funny parts but many references will go over most
kids heads while parents will laugh (do any children under 10yo know
what "Area 51" refers to??) I would recommend saving yourself money by
staying away from the 3D version of this movie. The first comment from
my 7yo after the movie was, "there wasn't much 3D" and she was
absolutely right. There were some, but by the middle of the movie, you
don't notice it. Movie has a pretty good story line. Not a great movie,
but not bad either. Good movie to see on a rainy weekend or day off of
school.
<|_=00=_|>
Escape from Planet Earth is a good movie for kids. It's funny, and
colorful. However, do not think that it's bringing anything new to the
table. It's nice entertainment, without any real disappointment, but
it's a light meal.

It's real and only strength lies in the slick and extremely colorful
graphics. they have their own style and there's not denying the appeal
or the design of the alien home world.

The rest is merely acceptable. The story is linear, the scenario
unimaginative, and the dialogs simple.

I liked it because it was fun, but don't expect much out of it and you
won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
We took our ten year old, and as always, enjoyed a movie made for kids
with enough entertainment thrown in for adults. It appears that kids
and parents go through the same things, regardless of the planet. Found
myself laughing most of the way through, especially when my boyfriend
leaned over and said 'you know this is a movie for kids, right?' I
guess I'm a kid at heart and this movie was very enjoyable. Loved
seeing who played which characters at the end. I only recognized one
during the film, but was pleasantly surprised by the rest! Maybe it was
the holiday, but our theater was packed, and everyone seemed to walk
away having enjoyed the show.
<|_=00=_|>
Blue alien named Scorch(Brendan Fraser) is quite the thrill seeker,
every time he goes on a mission. With his brother Gary(Rob Corddry) who
is behind the controls guiding him on the missions, Gary is not a
thrill seeker like his brother, they are from the planet BAAB. Scorch
gets a new mission, to go the forbidden planet AKA Earth. Gary refuses
to go along with it. Cause he is tired of being in his brothers shadow.
When Scorch gets captured when he does arrive on earth, it's up to Gary
to rescue him, but will he? 

The animation is almost up there with Wreck It Ralph. The jokes seem
run themselves into the ground. Most of the time instead of trying to
have a story, I feel it was going more for satire. Not that it was
terrible, but not has good as Monters Vs Aliens(2009). Brendan Fraser
and Rob Corddry are alright in voice casting.
<|_=00=_|>
Escape from Planet Earth is the theatrical debut from a little studio
called Rainmaker Entertainment, and shows a tad more promise than the
wealth of uninspired animated sequels such as Ice Age: Continental
Drift that families have been forced to sit through this past summer.
It concerns a place called Planet Baab, where a pair of brothers named
Gary and Scorch Supernova (voiced by Rob Corddry and Brendan Fraser,
respectively) work for a space program. Gary is the head of mission
control, frequently pressing buttons and maintaining different
technical jobs, while Scorch has the luxury of experiencing everything
firsthand given his role as the astronaut. One day, Gary gets tired of
Scorch's carelessness for assignments and his run-of-the-mill planning
thanks to his ego, and Scorch is tired of Gary's sophistication and
smothering seriousness. To show gumption, bravery, and self-reliance,
Scorch decides to venture to a place called "the dark planet" (Earth),
where, not long after, he is kidnapped by a group of humans and locked
in Area 51. It's up to his brother Gary, who leaves behind his wife and
kids, to save his brother's backside, yet again.

Just within the first half of Escape from Planet Earth, we see how this
film came to fruition. When Scorch lands on Earth, he noticed a waving
balloon in front of a store and mistakes it for another lifeform. The
waving balloon is a door-greeter for a 7/11 perfectly adjacent to Area
51. Inside the 7/11, where Gary stops upon his arrival to Earth, two
geeky employees try to get him to drink a gorgeous blue Slurpee,
shoving more product placement in our faces. Escape from Planet Earth
doesn't have the budget of many CGI features (and I highly doubt it
will make anywhere near the money they are known for either), so much
of the profit and spending money was likely built because of
unnecessary, unsubtle advertising.

Aside from that fact, this animated feature isn't half bad. It's first
half is slow, methodical, and a tad too chaotic, where its second and
third half are a delightful mix of humor and colors. At least for me.
The rows in front of me which were occupied with about fourteen kids
rarely chuckled or even so much as laughed. I fear that kids are
reaching a phase where they've "seen it all," what with being bombarded
by constant new animated programs and films, and because of that, this
film inevitably feels like a genial, yet uninspired rehash of material.
This I can agree with; my chuckles never stemmed past that nor were my
smiles held for very long. There was no gripping attachment to these
characters unlike what I've seen in Disney, Dreamworks, or Pixar films,
and because of that, this falls flat in the impact and character
departments.

Yet I still can't neglect the high level of imagination this film
possesses and the overall smoothness of its production. Rainmaker
Entertainment has long produced direct-to-DVD features that have been
met with mixed public reception. Scrolling through titles like Scary
Godmother, Stuart Little 3: Call of the Wild, and a never-ending
onslaught of Barbie-trademarked films gives the impression to an
unfamiliar consumer that they specialize in digital babysitters rather
than impacting adventures. However, if there's one thing they seemed to
hit home with here, it's the level of surprise, style, and motion that
was put into picture. This doesn't quite look like a direct-to-DVD
movie, and its adventure translates nicely to the big screen. Even the
animation doesn't seem like it would blend in with other medium-budget
CGI features often found on Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon. It's a
surprisingly very tasteful endeavor.

As far as the storyline, which seems reminiscent of a film called
Planet 51, unseen by me, there's not enough interest to make you
analyze every possible outcome the characters could end up in, but
there's not enough distance to where you absolutely don't care either.
By the final act of the film, I wasn't deep into the mindset of loathe
and actually found myself giggling at plot-points and certain details.
Take for example the justification for imprisonment one of the aliens
makes when Gary is thrown into Area 51 while trying to rescue his
brother; he states that it was aliens who created revolutionary
technology like the smartphone, the computer, the search engine, and
even animated films. The reason we weren't told that was the evil-head
of Area 51 named Shanker (William Shatner) imprisoned the aliens and
gave credit to men like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, and John Lasseter.
"C'mon, man, do you really think a human could've made all that stuff?"
one alien asks.

Escape from Planet Earth isn't really the most ideal viewing for
children, especially considering even at eighty-nine minutes it treads
the fine-line of being much of a muchness. But there's a good heart, a
somewhat interesting story, solid visual flair, tolerable characters, a
recognizable and capable cast of voices, and the generic but welcomed
warmth animated films so innocently bare. If it's the worst animated
film I'll see this year, I'll be quietly content; if it's the best I'll
be concerned.

And do I even need to conclude with a statement about the inert and
mediocre nature of the 3D?

NOTE: Escape from Planet Earth marks the first film of the year that I
will do a companion-video review for on Youtube,
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mH0WOZfi9Y 

Voiced by: Rob Corddry, Brendan Fraser, Sarah Jessica Parker, Jessica
Alba, William Shatner, Craig Robinson, George Lopez, Jane Lynch, Sof√≠a
Vergara, Jonathan Morgan Heit, Ricky Gervais, Steve Zahn, and Gregg
Binkley. Directed by: Cal Brunker.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of animated features, I figured that this was a good
opportunity to start the year off with some fun and fancy. Escape from
Planet Earth looked from the trailer as if it was a story of captured
aliens farmed out to work for free, inventing all the convenient
gadgets that mere Earthlings could never have conceived. That concept
was taken directly from Men in Black but that didn't dismay me I still
expected a pretty good story to unfold. It turned out that this was one
of the best looking worst written stories that I have had an
opportunity to view lately. The animation was first rate, and I thought
that would translate into a first rate film. It was sometimes hard to
stay in the moment, my thoughts strayed numerous times. The first half
hour was just a series of animated physical comedy that was not
particularly funny, stepping on a broom and being popped in the face is
just plain unoriginal and old. I believe that the issue with this story
was that it was trying so hard to be good by adding in all the elements
that make for a good movie that it somehow missed the mark. There was
at the very foundation of the story the sibling rivalry between Gary
Supernova (Rob Corddry) and his younger bigger brother Scorch Supernova
(Brendan Frazier) and with them the brain versus brawn was at the core
of their contention. There was some tongue in cheek Area 51, trailer
park behavior, and a number of other hijinks that should have been fun
or funny but just weren't. I suppose I expect a story to make sense and
the opening scene with Scorch saving babies who happen to be in an
unmanned crashed spacecraft was just ridiculous, so the rest just
seemed like fodder. I did like the fact that Sofia Vergara (Gabby) was
not just there for her sex appeal. As I mentioned before even without
seeing the film in 3D which I didn't it looked great, the animation
with all the pretty colors would be appealing to a small child, and
they may find the broom in the face funny once or twice, but thrice! I
don't think so. This is definitely a good rental to keep the little
ones entertained in the comfort of your own home, but you can't leave
them unattended since there is that PG rating. I give this film a red
light.
<|_=00=_|>
Good story, if a little bit uninspired. Some good moral points and
impressive twists. As far as animations go, quality is right up there
and an interesting ideas on how extra terrestrials could look. great
variety in shape and sizes as well as a believable planet network.
enjoyable graphics and great voice acting with a few celebs Took me
forever to figure out who one of the characters were! but got there in
the end. Nothing extra ordinary about it, some good takes on human way
of life for the adults to chuckle at. All in all an enjoyable movie,
and while its not up with the best animations i've ever seen i
certainly enjoyed it and will recommend it to any kid/kid at heart who
likes scifi!
<|_=00=_|>
well we will start off on one negative. the voices for some of the
characters just didn't fit. George Lopez's character and Jane lynch's
characters just annoyed me, i reckon George Lopez would be good if he
was playing a more, tough and bulky character, unlike the alien he
played named "Thurman". and to be honest Jane lynch should just stick
to glee. her voice is just incredibly annoying when it comes to her
character "Lo". but all of the other character's voices fitted
perfectly and delivered solid performances. although the movie is
enjoyable, it has it's flaws. as entered the second half of this movie,
i began to lose interest. but what kept me going was a hilarious
performance by Craig Robinson, as a Small and what he thinks, heroic
mouse. I did like the fact, that it shows issues between the two
brothers Scorch Supernova and Gary Supernova, and in the end how they
fix those issues, and realize how much they need each other. in the end
it was a enjoyable family movie that kids will love. I would give this
movie a 6.4, if IMDb would let me for the review.
<|_=00=_|>
'ESCAPE FROM PLANET EARTH': Two and a Half Stars (Out of Five) 

An animated sci-fi adventure film about a popular astronaut hero from
another planet who becomes trapped on Earth and has to be rescued by
his computer nerd brother. The all-star voice cast includes Brendan
Fraser, Rob Corddry, Ricky Gervais, William Shatner, Jessica Alba,
Sofia Vergara, Sarah Jessica Parker, Jane Lynch, Craig Robinson, George
Lopez, Steve Zahn and Chris Parnell. It's directed by first time
feature film director, and former storyboard artist, Carl Brunker and
written by Brunker, Bob Barlen, Tony Leech and Cory Edwards. The
animation is colorful and fun to look at and the cast is impressive as
well but the story and scene content is pretty simplistic. I liked the
monster movie sci-fi send-up though.

Scorch Supernova (Fraser) is a popular astronaut superhero, of sorts,
on his home planet Baab. He's looked up to by many there but his
brother, Gary (Corddry), is the brains behind their team and he always
guides the dimwitted Scorch through his missions, from the BASA base
where they work. Gary never gets any of the credit though and even his
own son Kip (Jonathan Morgan Heit) idolizes Scorch. When their boss,
Lena (Alba), orders Scorch to travel to the 'Dark Planet' (Earth), in
response to an SOS there, Gary knows it's a bad idea (due to the fact
that no other alien life form has ever returned from there). He advises
Scorch not to go on the mission but Scorch ignores him and the two get
in a huge fight when Gary quits. Scorch goes on the mission without his
brother's help, for the first time, and is captured and imprisoned at
Area 51. It's of course up to Gary to save him.

The animation is beautiful to look at and has a lot of character to it,
unfortunately the story doesn't. It's about as simplistic and by the
numbers as you can get. I like a lot of the actors in this cast
(especially Corddry, Gervais and Vergara) but their talents are wasted
here. Fraser is perfectly cast as the dimwitted hero, once again, but
he's the only star that really adds anything special to his role (which
is funny because he's arguably the least talented). Like I said the
whole Area 51 monster movie send-up is fun but that's about it. It
should please kids but other than some great looking animation and a
decent score (including a cool song by Owl City) the film has little
else to offer adults.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n28SgCY6lwc
<|_=00=_|>
As the people of planet Earth, we see ourselves as being either too
polluting and therefore doomed, or else Fallen and thus, damned. So if
we don't have that bright an outlook, it's no surprise other solar
systems view us as the most backward/de-evolved globe in the cosmos, or
as one alien calls it, The Dark Planet. (Or maybe Hollywood's doing
their usual self effacing thing but in a much wider scope.)

Why one particular alien/astronaut named Scorch Supernova, the big
brave Buzz Lightyear of a techie planet known as Baab, whose brother,
Gary, is a passive yet brilliant mission control leader, decides to
visit the infamous Earth is never quite clear. But he does, immediately
crash landing in Roswell, New Mexico, and quickly taken captive by evil
General Shanker, who has collected ¬ñ inside his Area 51 containment
center ¬ñ an assortment of alien prisoners while planning to build
something stronger than an Atomic bomb. 

Shanker's world domination plot aside, for a kids movie it's never too
intense, and there are enough action sequences for adults to keep
interest. The characters are likable and the settings minimal: Once our
blue alien heroes leave their own planet, we have only the prison to
escape from, a few white trash trailers outside and one 7/11. 

Despite the overall simplicity, ESCAPE FROM PLANET EARTH never drags
and doesn't try to be more than a basic escape flick and best yet,
actors Brendan Frasier (Scorch), Rob Corddry (Gary) and General Shanker
(William Shatner) don't sound like lazy celebrities providing their own
recognizable voices while letting the animators do all the work. Now
that's something to admire.
