
First, I'll let you know about our demographic (to help you decide if
you will relate to my review or not): I am a parent of a 10 year old
boy, a 7 year old girl, and a 2 month old baby. I am in my early 30s,
and my wife is in her late 20s. We are moderate movie-goers, as in, we
watch a fair number of movies, and we miss a lot of movies. I am
University educated, my kids are fairly typical of their age, and my
wife is also fairly well educated.

We decided to go to this movie with our children at 9:20 PM on a
Saturday Night which was actually also our 11th anniversary. It was a
bit of a risk, and considering the rating that this movie seems to
have, it could have ended horribly (considering it was our anniversary)
We all quite enjoyed this movie. It's not overly complicated, but it's
got a fairly unique plot, decent script, excellent character
development, and it seems to steer clear of some of the more cliché
stereotypes that could have plagued this type of movie.

It's pure fantasy, and it's nearly 100% kids movie, but we adults
didn't have to "suffer" through it. My wife and I laughed heartily at
much of the situational humour; both my kids laughed uproariously at
most of the silly funny moments, and the situational humour. The
visuals were quite pleasing, without being annoying (I find the latest
3D craze with so many movies rather annoying, for example). The voices
were well cast, the scripts and voice-acting was well done and quite
seamless. I didn't find myself thinking, "I know who that voice is!" at
all, because it wasn't something that popped into my mind.

So, I gave this a 7. Why not higher?, you might ask. Well, it's not
ground-breaking, it wasn't epic, and it wasn't a movie that leaves me
thinking about something for a long time. It wasn't lower because there
was nothing blatantly bad about this show. It was all enjoyable, and
none of us regret having seen this show on our anniversary.

I hope my review helps you decide to go see this film :D
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me say that I'm tired of dumb reviews saying "why do
aliens speak English?" or "they fart and burp a lot". Disney's The
Princess and the Frog's trailer has about 3 ass related jokes and one
burp in less than 45 seconds. Toy Story's characters spoke English and
understood humans and nobody wondered why. A house managed to be lifted
by balloons in Up with no police radars detecting anything. So, this
said: Let's sit down and enjoy a movie and stop looking for silly
excuses to criticize it.

I watched Planet51 with my two nephews (8 and 10 years old) and they
enjoyed it all the way. The quality is as good as Pixar's or Dreamworks
and, yes, it's true the script is somewhat flat and very repetitive,
but as the kids said to me "We didn't understand Wall-E's plot and
didn't sympathize with any characters in Up, but Planet51 we did." It
has some really funny characters (the white camera ala Wall-e and the
alien pet), plus it's easy to understand, and despite the lack of
chases or explossions it keeps its pace all the time and, as I said
before, kids love the characters and understand -and enjoy- the plot.

As Groucho Marx once said: A child of five could understand this. Fetch
me a child of five!!!
<|_=00=_|>
It's an "ET-in-reverse" story. An Earthling astronaut gets stuck on
what he calls an alien planet. The local green folks call him
(accurately) the alien. The story is a fond tribute to drive-in's,
space-creatures sci-fi, and the 50's. With the Area 51 reference in its
title, you know the film will be poking fun at everything it can get
its hands on, including itself. It delivers this.

There's hover craft that look like big-finned autos of that era, black
& white TV, and pioneer rock 'n' roll. It's clever humor, although some
of this has been done before. There's a lot of parallels to Monsters
vs. Aliens, too, in that frequent references to classic sci-fi flicks
(up to the present, not just the 50's) pop up in sight gags and
one-liner jokes. My fav was the character that resembled the Aliens
movie creatures. There are other clichés sent up for satire: a loud
mouth hawkish general, a wanna-be scientist, etc. Adults won't be bored
thanks to these in-jokes, and the kids should like the slapstick stuff.

The film boasts a great idea, and some, but not all, of the potential
is utilized. It's good natured and fun, rating about average for an
animated feature.
<|_=00=_|>
American astronaut Captain Charles "Chuck" Baker lands on Planet 51
thinking he's the first person to step foot on it. To his surprise, he
finds that this planet is inhabited by little green people who are
happily living in a white picket fence world, and whose only fear is
that it will be overrun by alien invaders...like Chuck! This film is
made from the alien perspective. They are like the 50's Earth, they
have the hippie guy, the youngsters who are open to new ideas that
aliens are friendly. Frankly, I liked the film even though it wasn't
epic or adventurous enough. This is a film made for the kids have a
great time & I know they'll enjoy this. The thing I didn't like was
that the love story between Neera & Lem seemed to be forced. Planet 51
is the hometown & Chuck the human astronaut is the alien in this film.
It was funny at times & I think every youngster can relate to something
in the film & the old timers can get a kick out of the 50's feeling.

I liked how it rained rocks & how the evil doctor laughed. Everything
about the storyline is about the 50's. Even they have The Humaniacs
horror film that is considered scary for their generation. The premise
of the plot is great, they could have made it better. The voice actors
Dwayne Johnson (Chuck), Justin Long (Lem) & Neera (Jessica Biel) all
did a good job. You'll enjoy this if you watch this with some kids.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I took my 8 year old daughter and her friend to see this opening night.
There was a decent size crowd who seemed to enjoy it. For ESPN fans one
of their long time personalities, who has his own video short series on
the website, was there. But I digress.

It took a while to realize that it definitely was Dwayne Johnson as the
astronaut's voice. He's created a great niche for himself in family
films and I think he does good job. Justin Long was a good choice for
the lead "alien" Lem and John Cleese is always a good choice as he did
a small role as the professor. The role of Skiff brought good humor to
many scenes. Sean William Scott was very animated in his voice acting
for this character. Other than Rover and the hippie-like guy, the rest
of the characters are just back drops without adding much.

We laughed quite a bit throughout the movie, which is mostly the point.
There was plenty of cute humor with the dog-like robot Rover, who was a
little reminiscent of WALL-E, a little. The down-side was that it never
drew you in to fully connect, sympathize, like or dislike any of the
characters. I didn't see myself rooting for anyone over anyone else. If
the message is supposed to be about not judging anyone based on
appearance, that message was shallow. If the message was to keep an
open-mind toward what is possible and to learn new things, that message
was under-developed.

Bottom line, the kids enjoyed it and we had a good entertaining night
out. So in that respect it served its' purpose. The animation was
suitable and I liked the 50's like theme of the planet. One or two
adult humor jokes in there that could have been omitted and not change
the movie.

For a family movie 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
As you may or may not know, I'm a bit of a sucker for an animated
feature and, having seen the trailer for Planet 51 a while back I was
keen to see how it turned out. I must admit I was shocked how poorly it
has been received. What I found was a funny, engaging film with a whole
load of gags referring to just about every mainstream sci-fi/alien
film. I admit it's not perfect, but I think it deserves another chance.
But more of that later, first, here's a very brief summary (miss the
next paragraph if you hate summaries).

Planet 51 is supposed to be lifeless, well, that's what the data said
anyway. Unfortunately for astronaut Captain Charles T. Baker, it isn't.
Alien life forms with green skin inhabit this little planet and they
have advanced as far as the 1950's, that's USA 1950's, just in case
there's any doubt. A teenager, Lem, befriends Baker and, with the help
of his friends, Skiff and Eckle, hides him from the army and their
leader, General Grawl and the crazy scientist, Professor Kipple. He is
in love with Eckle's sister, Neera, but struggles with getting the
right words out. Back with the mission, help is at hand in the form of
R.O.V.E.R., an advance scout robot who was sent ahead of the mission.
Time is running out for Baker, his command craft, in orbit, leaves in
72 hours. Can Lem and his friends get him back to his Lander in time?
Will Baker help Lem with Neera? Is there any end to these crazy
questions? Guess you'll have to wait and see.

As I said at the beginning, there are plenty of gags incorporated into
the script and there's also a lot of slapstick. My favourite character
is the 'Alien' dog; you'll know what I mean when/if you see it. The
dialogue was adequately delivered, but then nobody was really
stretched. Honourable mentions go to the voice talents of; Dwayne
Johnson as Captain Charles T. Baker, Jessica Biel as Neera, Justin Long
as Lem, Gary Oldman as General Grawl, Seann William Scott as Skiff and
John Cleese as Professor Kipple.

Over all I found it a very entertaining movie with quite a few laughs.
I guess it's down to taste and I'm aware that we are all different,
especially when it comes to comedy, but I urge you to give this one a
chance. Although it's not perfect, I've seen much, much worse
Recommended.

My score: 6.4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I have always loved animation, whether it's cartoons(Looney Tunes and
Silly Symphonies), films or TV shows. Planet 51 is not a bad movie, but
at the end of the day it felt rather bland. I've seen worse certainly,
but I can also think of better out there. The animation is wonderful
though, very rich in colour and detail. The soundtrack is memorable,
there are a few funny moments that will have children chuckling, fun
set pieces and a couple of Cold War pastiches that will keep adults
interested, Rover is a great character and by far the best character of
the movie and it all begins very promisingly. The voice cast are full
of great actors, especially Gary Oldman and John Cleese, and Planet 51
generally uses them well, Dwayne Johnson is an especially likable lead.
However, the story, despite its great premise, is rather weak and
unoriginal in structure and after a promising twenty minutes it is
never quite as interesting. I liked the Cold War pastiches, but some of
the other references were verging on tired. Among the funny moments,
there is the overall mediocrity of the script, with a lot of clichéd
dialogue. The characters are weak and stereotypical, with one of the
blandest villains I've seen in an animated film recently, and the
ending is very predictable. In conclusion, looks great but at the end
of the day it felt very bland and forgettable. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
In this successful Spanish picture there are humor , rip-roaring
adventures , action , thrills and many other things . It deals with an
American astronaut Captain Charles "Chuck" Baker (Voice by Dwayne
Johnson) lands on Planet 51 thinking he's the first person to step foot
on it. To his surprise, he finds that this planet is inhabited by
little green people who are happily living in a white picket fence
world, and whose only fear is that it will be overrun by alien invaders
like Chuck. But on this alien planet the media has tagged spacemen as
brain-eating, zombie-creating monsters, causing Baker to run . The
planet is set in the 50s and even though much on the alien planet is
round in design, nothing has wheels . There Chuck meets Lem (the name
voiced by Justin Long, is also the abbreviation for Lunar Excursion
Module. NASA's LEM was used as part of the Apollo program to land
astronauts on the moon) , an average teenager working on getting the
girl named Neera (Jessica Biel's voice) and furthering his career at
the local planetarium . While , Chuck's command module called Odyssey
(this is the same name of the command module used in the Apollo 13
mission) is orbiting the planet .

Fabulous and amusing C.G. animated film , lavishly produced and
achieving a big success . Gorgeous and astounding animated picture with
outstanding and fantastic starring , an astronaut called Chuck and his
good friend , Lem . Fun story of outland space plenty of adventures ,
bemusing situations , fights , chuckles , emotion , and action .
Entertaining and solid retelling from Atresmedia Cine , the film
division of DeAPlaneta's broadcasting group Atresmedia or Antena 3 ,
co-produced Planet . The whole piece of adventure teems with excitement
, thrills , humor , astral atmosphere and being pretty amusing . The
movie was originally going to be called "Planet One" but the owners of
Planet One, who make children's and teen TV programs in the USA,
threatened to sue . The film's producers chose to call the movie Planet
51 (2009), acknowledging Area 51, the supposed center of UFO
investigation in America. Spain's animation output is now knocking on
global market doors, boosted by the growing commitment of private
broadcasters such as Antena 3 TV . Ilion Animation Studios' $60 million
Planet 51, a Sony U.S. pickup, paved the way by scoring $105.7 million
worldwide in 2010 . Formerly , the great producer , Julio Fernandez
from Fantastic factory had produced successful animated pictures such
as ¨El Raton Perez I and II¨ or "The Hairy Tooth Fairy", ¨Donkey Xote¨
, ¨Gisaku¨ , ¨El Cid : the legend¨ by Jose Pozo and ¨Goomer¨. Two of
Spain's more anticipated releases  the $28.6 million-budgeted "Justin
and the Knights of Valour," produced by Antonio Banderas, and
Argentinian Juan Jose Campanella's $20 million Foosball are animated
features.

The motion picture was compellingly realized by a trio of perfect
filmmakers as Jorge Blanco , Javier Abad and Marcos Martinez ,with a
high budget of $70 million, this is the most expensive movie produced
in Spain . Production lasted 16 months, roughly half the amount of time
it takes to make a Pixar movie. Rating : Above average , worthwhile
watching .
<|_=00=_|>
Please disregard RichardSRussell-1's review, I am not sure he watched
the movie, at least not with very much attention. First, he states
"humans as the bad guys" but the only human was the movie's good guy!
The military general was the bad guy, and even a four year old could
easily see that. Second, I'm not sure if he is familiar with movies
playing on themes and paying homage to other movies, stories, and so
forth. That's not ripping off, but that reviewer obviously can't even
grasp that concept. Countless movies, perhaps most of them, will
include scenes and lines deliberately intended to make reference other
works  this is not plagiarism, it's paying homage! There has not been
a single children's animated movie with this particular theme, not even
close (at least no movie or major work). Yes, it is essentially a
reverse E.T. and builds on many, many other movies that have come
before. But the overall work is not a copy of anything else.

It's a play on the common movie theme, and popular attitude in the
1950's, that all aliens must be terrifying monsters and the civic
paranoia and fear that follows the suggestion of an alien visitor.
Given that, it *has* to copy themes and images and possibly even lines
from other movies. That's the whole point.

Having seen almost every kid's animated movie out there, I found this
movie to be very enjoyable and I loved seeing it. More importantly (at
least if you're a parent) my kids loved this movie, and they don't like
every kid's movie. It may not be the greatest movie of all time, but I
would definitely recommend it and a great watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit the trailer was funny enough, with an astronaut so full
of himself thinking that his planetary visit was an open and shut case,
only to discover that it's inhabited and he's the alien in the truest
sense of the word, like a fish out of water trying to make his way home
lest he becomes an experimental subject.

And the aliens, well, are just like us, with plot conveniences such as
having the same mixture of atmospheric gases like Earth's, and hey, the
green things with four fingers on each hand speak English too! They're
city folks with a penchant for 50s musical oldies (that pepper the
soundtrack), with a whole host of modern day, earth-like references all
over the place in a desperate attempt at being recognized for being
smarty-pants. Unfortunately though it tries too hard to be funny at
every turn, and it only brought about the occasional mirth.

It's about time that filmmakers realize that pumping a film with too
many references for its own good, is something of a tired formula.
You'd wonder when such references will seize, to allow a good story to
shine. Planet 51 suffers from too much wink-wink moments, complete with
blatant rip offs that bring too much attention to themselves. One look
at the pet named Ripley and resembling like a Xeroxed replica of an
Alien complete with acidic pee, you're likely to roll your eyes. Or how
about that robot probe that functions and looks like R2D2/WallE and
comes without dialogues but plenty of whirrs and beeps while going
about doing cutesy stuff? 

Despite a relatively A-list voice cast with the likes of Dwayne Johnson
(who doesn't sound like the real deal if you ask me), Justin Long, Gary
Oldman, John Cleese, Jessica Biel and Seann William Scott, Planet 51
felt like a Frankenstein monster, stitched together from ideas of other
films, and plastered together forcefully to try and make the narrative
work. Characters too are a little boring and one-dimensional, with
little heart.

Bottom line is, CG graphics and copycat characters don't make an
animated film entertaining. A sincere story does and this one is found
lacking, and too talky too for kids to enjoy, in my opinion.
