
Saw JACK REACHER on Monday night at an advance screening. Here's some
of my thoughts. There are no spoilers.

First off, I'd say I agree with the general critical reception: 4/5
stars. To me that means it's a solid movie that delivers at the high
end of its genre. JACK REACHER isn't trying to be anything
revolutionary, it's more the kind of action thriller audiences haven't
seen for a while.

This isn't MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE or even James Bond. Writer/director
Christopher McQuarrie takes his inspiration from action movies of the
late 60s/early 70s like DIRTY HARRY (which has been name checked in a
couple reviews already), BULLITT (for the car chase); and maybe another
Don Siegel movie, CHARLEY VARRICK. The excitement here doesn't come
from over the top stunts or huge explosions. Like the action movies
just referenced, you thrill to watching a strongly defined protagonist
outsmart, outfight and outmaneuver the bad guys.

Which brings me to the character of Jack Reacher and the casting of Tom
Cruise. In the series of novels by Lee Child this movie is based on,
Jack Reacher is an ex-MP detective. After a lifetime spent on military
bases overseas, he lives as a drifter in the United States who adheres
to a life of zero commitments: No house, no job, no car, no
possessions, no family. Oh, and he stands 6'5" and weighs 250 lbs.

Clearly Tom Cruise doesn't match that physical description. What makes
Reacher such a great character in Child's books though has far less to
do with his exterior than it does with his intellect. If you've read
the series as I have, it's a little strange at first. As the film
played out however, I got more relaxed and more into it. This was
definitely a movie about Lee Child's hero Jack Reacher, physical
differences be damned.

Would I have preferred an unknown actor closer to Child's description
to play Reacher on screen? Yes, of course. But I could say that about
virtually any character, and often do. I generally want unknowns for
everything.

Which is where Cruise's casting comes in handy a bit. Because his
casting sort of guarantees a certain amount of box office, it means the
filmmakers can take more chances. Like crafting an action movie that's
longer on character and occasional brutal violence and short on
mindless action and impossible nonsense.

JACK REACHER was a very satisfying action thriller for me. I felt it
captured what I love about Lee Child's thrillers and Jack Reacher in
particular. I'd definitely recommend it, and I'm going to see it in the
theater again. That's for damn sure.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all i would like to ask how any of the other reviewers could
possibly give this film 1 out of 10? They must have some deep rooted
personal reasons for this i guess.

I nearly didn't watch this film for all of the negative reviews. I
would have so missed out on something good.

The film was excellent! Great plot. Creepy bad guy and a reasonable
amount of suspense. I have never read the Jack Reacher books, so cannot
compare Cruise to the title character. I imagine that some people might
have been disappointed at the lack of huge explosions and transforming
robots etc etc, but this was a fine old school action thriller with
many new tricks which i haven't seen before (check the buss stop scene.
Classic!). I loved the pacing and the great interaction between
players. Sure, some of the one liners seemed a tad forced, but they
were not so common. Well done Cruise again.

Do yourselves a favour. Ignore the negative reviewers and give this a
go.
<|_=00=_|>
There was a timelet's call it "The 80s"when action movies didn't need
CGI cheats, shaky-cam and ADD-editing to entertain us. They also didn't
have to destroy ten city blocks, have a "clever" hook or feel the need
to tack on a social message to justify their carnage. No, all they
needed was a reason for some good old steak and potatoes action and a
star to anchor it all. 2012's Jack Reacher has these qualities in
spades.

Maybe this won't appeal to the eGeneration who need to have their
senses constantly bombarded, but for the rest of us, Jack Reacher is a
solid bit of retro-refreshment.
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Reacher (Tom Cruise) is the tale of a very astute ex-military
policeman. The army training came in quite handy as he digs into the
evidence of a heinous crime that turns out to be not at all what it
seems to be on the surface. I was surprised at how funny the dialogue
in this film was, it is definitely not a comedy, but the sarcastic and
comedic one-liners kept coming, even in situations that were completely
devoid of a humorous setting there was some very amusing conversation.
There was even a scene in which Reacher is attacked in a bathroom that
had me cracking up at the bumbling bad guys. The comedy was heightened
even further with the old codger Cash (Robert Duvall). Mr. Duvall
always delivers a convincing performance, same here. As with any film
that features Mr. Cruise the expectation is that it will be fast paced
and very entertaining, same here. The only thing missing was his
trademark sprint to or after something or anything. I've just come to
expect to see him running, really running but we are getting older. The
trailer is the only kind that I like, the ones that do not give away
the whole movie. It shows that Reacher is bad a$$ without playing out
every aspect of the story. David Oyelowo (Emerson) is one to watch, he
is building an impressive resume and it is easy to see why because
whenever he portrays a character he is that character. When he played a
pilot in Red Tails, I totally believed he could fly a plane. When he
was the head of a company experimenting on Apes, I was again thoroughly
convinced and I believed every aspect of his being a police detective.
One of the best car chase scenes that I've seen lately was in this
film. There were so many attributes of this film that I liked,
including the sexual tension between Reacher and Helen Ronin (Rosamund
Pike) that I will just sum it up by saying. Everything just seemed to
be genuine and authentic, even though I know that the fights are staged
they looked logistically correct, but Steven Segal did come to mind. I
liked that the film had a legitimate beginning and end, even if there
are subsequent Jack Reacher tales to follow, there was no gaping wide
open door of a final scene leaving the audience wondering 'What's up
with that?!?'. But I do hope there are sequels, at least one. I give it
a green light
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Reacher was a surprisingly fantastic film. I went in thinking,
thanks to some slightly misleading trailers, that this was going to be
a high octane action movie with a bunch of gun fights, car chases, and
explosions but little development and quality. I was completely wrong.
While there were a few gun fights, one car chase, and an explosion of
sorts, it was done in a completely different manner and was more of an
action thriller. Tom Cruise did a great job in his typical role. The
rest of the supporting cast was solid enough and the cameo by Robert
Duvall was awesome. The plot developed really well and made it more of
a "thinking movie" than I anticipated. That being said, the turns in
the plot kept the film from becoming stagnant or boring and the action
sequences felt real and authentic. I wasn't a huge fan of some of the
cinematic elements and there were some flaws in one of the plot twists
but nothing that really hurt the movie-watching experience. All-in-all,
I'd say this was a great movie that most people would very much enjoy
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Having never read any Lee Childs novels regarding Jack Reacher, I went
into this one with somewhat limited knowledge on who Jack Reacher is
and what his claim to fame is. So like many, I read where the "serious"
fans were disappointed that Tom Cruise was picked to portray this
iconic hero. To them I say, so what, did you watch this movie? In truth
Tom Cruise is very good in this role, the movie is fast paced and
action packed, the writing is cleaver and spot on, so to those who
would continue to pan this movie I say lighten up and relax. This was a
very good movie, Tom Cruise was good in the lead role, the several
one-liners were very cleaver and kept a sense of humor in a plot with
plenty of violence and too close for comfort realism. This movie was
good, it was entertaining, well acted, and should be viewed and enjoyed
by all who watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd never read any of the Lee Child 'Jack Reacher' novels so I went in
with no particular expectations about the portrayal of this character.
But this film can certainly live up to ANY expectations thriller fans
might have had of it, in my opinion!

Having seen Tom Cruise as the flamboyant, charming and somewhat Boy
Scout-ish Ethan Hunt in the past, its refreshing to see him as someone
almost as ruthless and taciturn as Jason Bourne or Daniel Craig's
rendition of James Bond. Jack Reacher's appeal doesn't lie in the fact
that he's a 'larger than life' figure, or the world's biggest
bada##...it lies in the fact that he's a normal, perfectly relatable
and very realistic human being, albeit a trained and skilled soldier
and detective.

Rosamund Pike does a great job as the lawyer, Helen-a far cry from
glamorous 'Bond girls' (one of whom Pike herself has portrayed), and
Lara Croft styled action heroines who normally populate the action film
genre. Instead she's a three dimensional character with her own doubts,
anxieties, convictions and flaws.

One of the great things about this movie is how, without wavering from
its narrative, it does highlight several significant real-world issues;
ranging from the political debates over gun control, to legal
representation for terrorists, to the politics surrounding the actions
of military personnel overseas, to the corrupt political-industrial
nexus...without necessarily taking sides or trying to come across as
being preachy of moralistic.

To sum it up, Jack Reacher is virtually a 'slice of life'
piece...albeit, a very dark and grimy slice of life.
<|_=00=_|>
James Barr (Joseph Sikora), a former military sniper, is in jail for
killing 5-people and says he is innocent. He asks for ex-Army MP
Officer, Jack Reacher (Tom Cruise). But Reacher knew Barr in Iraq and
is out to prove him guilty. Hmmmshould be a slam dunk.

It's not often that we get a good thriller along with a good mystery as
well, but that is what we have here. Why would Barr ask for Jack
Reacher if Reacher knew what Barr did in Iraq? Also, what was the
purpose of Barr killing 5-people who had no connection to each other?
Assistant DA Helen (Rosamund Pike) asks Reacher to help prevent Barr
from getting the death penalty. But, we also had some good fight scenes
and an exciting car chase. Let the games begin. 

This gets somewhat talky in the beginning as Helen and Reacher analyze
what had happened. But, we hang on every word because we, too, need to
know things. All this sounded like the dialogue was dubbed in, but I
think the microphones were just too close to the characters and this
made it seem as if the dialogue was dubbed in. To be honest it did look
like Rosamund Pike had weak knees around Tom Cruise, but the script
wouldn't go here. It just looked that way to me. 

The supporting cast of bad guys was good as was Detective Emerson
(David Oyelowo), assigned to the Barr case. Robert Duvall comes in as a
retired USMC Gunnery Sgt, Gunny Cash, who does a masterful job as the
owner of a gun range and inserts some humor as he deals with Reacher. 

Over all this was very good. But, I did have the feeling something was
missing. Maybe it needed a better ending as this one was kind of weak
for such a good story. 

Maybe Tom Cruise is leaving his Mission Impossible movies behind and is
now centering on another action hero: Jack Reacher, who is described as
someone who seems to only wear the clothes on his back, doesn't care
about the law and is only concerned with one thing: justice, and the
way he goes about achieving it may shock you. Hey, Lee Child, the
author of the Jack Reacher series wrote about 15-books. See? (8/10)

Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: Yes, not much
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Reacher is based on Lee Child's book "One Shot". For those who've
read it, you already know Tom Cruise isn't right for the role. One
would wish they could've gotten a bigger and taller actor to play the
role like Hugh Jackman, or Chris Evans, or someone else. It could have
been a new iconic appearance for a hero. The real problem is it seems
Tom Cruise is just redoing his generic action hero performance. As much
as he refuses to call himself a hero, he still looks like one but in a
much glossier way. In spite of that, the film itself is a snazzy piece
of entertainment that is rare in cinema these days. A neo-noir styled
action blockbuster that will grip you by its storytelling and its
action scenes. There's a chance that could have made this a much better
film but put aside those complains, it's still pretty awesome.

The film begins with a man shooting five random innocent people. It
effectively builds tension by being silent. The rest of the movie is as
slick as the opening and it serves a great entertainment. The only
disappointment is Tom Cruise. He may not have the appearance of the
character but he could have done a lot more than just doing his typical
action hero swagger. He sure has charisma but that's all. His fans
might still think he's pretty cool for it. I'm not a fan of comparing a
book to its film adaptation. I never cared if a single plot point or
character was changed, but the Jack Reacher character is the real deal
here. It seems this film is only made for Cruise to get him back in
action. Well this character is not for him.

The film is still solidly made. At least it doesn't go to the modern
generic action movie direction that is relentlessly loud but sticks to
the neo-noir storytelling. The best parts is when it spends time in
scrutinizing the case in silence. When the film starts talking, the
dialogue is witty and interests the story's investigation. It gets
exciting when it goes to the action. The action scenes are well shot.
The hand-to-hand combat fight scenes reminiscence the cool eighties
action with some humorous camp. The car chase is the most impressive
sequence where it shows several angles as they drive away without
shaking the camera. It has the potential of a classic throwback.

Jack Reacher is quite entertaining but again they should have gotten
the right actor to play the lead. Jack Reacher here is nothing more
than another Tom Cruise character with a leather jacket and do what
this old man usually do. The only good thing is it's not bad. It's a
decent kind of action thriller that isn't famous in mainstream cinema
anymore, but yet is enjoyable. It's not entirely an action film though,
but people might think it is. It leaves having a smart mystery in spite
of fact it lacks the anti-hero. It's fun and worth watching but there
are things that could have made this a lot more interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
After putting off watching this film as I usually don't enjoy Tom
Cruise I was pleasantly surprised. The film has a good twisting plot
and Jack Reacher is a mix between James Bond and John McLane from Die
Hard. There are some memorable characters and the film draws you in and
makes you think. The plot is easy to follow but complex enough to keep
you interested without giving you brain ache. In short I liked Jack
Reacher and look forward to more films with Jack. 

The plot has plenty of fast action scenes which are thankfully not too
over the top and keep the pace of the film going. The ending was also
well thought out despite the slightly cheesy last few lines. But they
do leave the character ready for follow up films.
