
Went to see Mamma Mia without particularly high expectations. Not being
a big connoisseur (or even fan) of musicals, I didn't really know what
to expect. Though I adore ABBA, I never bothered to watch the stage
production of Mamma Mia. But having a cinema membership, I didn't have
much to lose (no money, at least), so I went for it. And boy, am I glad
that I did! I can safely say that I enjoyed every second of it. And I'm
not even ashamed to admit it!

Give Meryl Streep another Oscar and get it over with already. If she
could get a nod for the Devil Wears Prada, she definitely deserves one
for this. She really let her hair down on this one. Mrs. Streep can
obviously not pass for a trained singer, but somehow, it just doesn't
seem to matter. It just really worked in the movie (unlike -say- Helena
Bonham Carter's singing in Sweeney Todd). When I heard Meryl's
rendition of "The winner takes it all" in advance, it lowered my
expectations considerably, but in its context, it totally made sense.

Most of all though, this movie was just sheer fun. People were
clapping, laughing...Rarely have I seen an audience as enthusiastic.
The crowd especially responded well to Meryl and her two cronies
(arguably the strongholds of the movie). Also, because I had never seen
the musical before, I was amazed (and amused) at the inventive ways in
which they managed to incorporate so many ABBA-songs. Equally brilliant
was the way the extras (usually some Greek old women) were deployed
throughout the movie...And then of course the setting (beautiful
Greece) was mesmerizing...

Basically, Mamma Mia is a superb musical that doesn't take itself too
seriously. If you're just a little bit crazy and want to have a good
laugh, if you love ABBA, want to see Meryl Streep like you've never
seen her before or if you simply have a secret crush on Colin Firth
and/or Pierce Brosnan (his singing was nothing short of hilarious), you
will LOVE this movie. Best summer flick so far. Warmly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't know what to expect when going into watch "Mamma Mia", was
this gonna be another Hairspray or Across the Universe or Rent? This
was a lighthearted, quite enjoyable movie of its own style, Meryl Strep
blew the entire audience away with her comedic persona in this movie.
After seeing her in Devil Wears Prada, you are shaken momentarily after
seeing her climb on top a roof singing "Mamma Mia!" and swoon and the
dance teenage giddy girl dance. You'll love this movie for trio of
older woman characters, they were all so funny. Mr. James Bond's
character and singing was such a hilarious delight for the audience, we
couldn't believe this was the man who played a top secret spy agent.

With just the right amount of eccentricity, heart, and *get out of
those movie chairs and DANCE IN THE AISLE* ABBA music, you'll never
want this adventure to end.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at the screening on Sunday and was not too sure of what
to expect from it. I hadn't seen the west end show so was not really
aware of the story line but that really did not matter.

As soon as the first song started I was loving it! The actors may not
be that great at singing but does it matter?! They are actors after all
and this is not the west end! The actors play the parts really well and
make fun of themselves at the same time. The story line is fun and has
laughs for all ages. Julie Waters is her fantastic self in it and Meryl
Streep plays the mother really well. The dance scenes are great and
well put together. Loads of people in the cinema were singing and
dancing in their seats so just enjoy it and have some laughs for a few
hours.

If you take it for what it is, a fun laugh out loud film with good
actors and fantastic songs, then you will enjoy this film so much.I
suspect that this will be a summer box office hit! Enjoy it and have
fun - you may need your tissues though as I'm pretty sure some of you
will be crying with laughter at some of the scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
I like, but don't love, musicals - my DVD shelves contain a selection,
but the stuff there is pretty obvious: Singing in the Rain, King and I,
Wizard of Oz, Moulin Rouge etc.. I'm not a Meryl Streep fan - I admire
her craft, but mostly haven't liked the parts she's played. Conversely,
I've always liked Abba's music. So that's my starting point when
considering this movie which I have just been to see with my 80-year
old mother.

The story is a piece of fluff. Sophie, who lives with her mother in a
dilapidated hotel on an idyllic Greek island, wants nothing more than
for her father to be at her forthcoming wedding. The trouble is her
father could be any one of three men with whom her mother dot dot
dotted twenty years ago. So Sophie invites all three of them to her
wedding and, as expected, complications ensue. The story, such as it
is, is quite strong enough to enable the songs to be hooked onto it.
And the songs, with one or two obvious exceptions (Money Money Money
cued by the rundown state of the hotel) are very cannily worked into
the story so that each one is relevant.

The film looks great. The Greek locations overflow with sun and primary
colours. The script is mostly fairly deft, and there is a sprinkling of
decent laughs.

But the film ultimately stands or falls - and it stands, believe me! -
on two things: the music, and the cast.

The music - sitting through this film brings home the strength of the
Abba catalogue. There isn't a weak song among the two dozen which
feature on the soundtrack. The music, produced by composer Benny
Andersson, mostly wisely sticks very close to the original
arrangements, and the occasional divergences (Greek bouzouki on I Had A
Dream, for instance) are spot on.

And the cast - well, they deliver. Brosnan's singing has been
criticised, but he is always in tune, and he delivers a satisfactory
vocal performance rather than dazzling with a polished singing
technique (which he hasn't got). The four leading women are all
wonderful. Julie Walters and Christine Baranski as Meryl Streep's two
oldest friends are both very funny (Julie Walters has a particularly
funny little bit of business in a rubber boat), and Baranski has her
own knockout number. Amanda Seyfried as Sophie is simply delightful -
she sings well, carries the plot and all the emotion which goes with
it, and is very easy on the eye. And Meryl Streep is a revelation.

This film is an utterly joyous experience. My old Mum and I came out of
the cinema buoyed up by the experience of watching it, and I cannot
recommend it highly enough to anyone who enjoys musicals and/or Abba's
music.
<|_=00=_|>
Mamma Mia! Does the mention of anything Abba-ish send you cringing to a
corner? Or are you already joining in and dancing on the tabletops?
Maybe another few drinks . . .

In short, if you are not allergic to Abba, book your tickets now. If
you are, why would you be reading this? At a pinch, it is worth seeing
for Meryl Streep alone, who not only throws herself headlong into every
refrain with unashamed gusto, but adds a touch of class and nuance to
what otherwise could be a one-dimensional adaptation. Streep vacillates
engagingly between playing herself and not taking herself too
seriously. Pierce Brosnan just about keeps up, and manages more
expressions than he ever did as James Bond. Colin Firth and Julie
Waters trail behind somewhat. Yet Mama Mia! is a roller coaster of
emotion, careering colourfully from the blue waters of the Adriatic,
bursting 'like Aphrodite's Fountain' into the lives of Donna (Meryl) ,
her lovers and friends, and her soon-to-be-wed daughter. It is the
party spirit that says kick your shoes off and sing silly cheesy songs.
Altogether now.

And yes  there's a story. Donna's daughter Sophie is getting married.
To the buff-looking Sky. Only  where's her dad? She's never met him. A
sneak-peek at Mom's diary shows Mom had three lovers before Sophie was
born and Sophie secretly invites all of them. This is a film of
threesomes. Three past lovers (Sam, Bill and Harry). Three close
friends (Donna and two best pals). And, not to be outdone, Sophie meets
up with two other young girls at the start of the film.

The breakneck pace still allows for brilliantly put together shots.
Like Streep doing a 'Titanic' with drapes blowing in the wind. Or a
pier-load of young hunky stag night crew doing a dance in trunks and
deep-dive flippers. Moonlit boats and beaches to "I Have a Dream."
Filmed on location, the views won't disappoint. And like a favourite
song whose ending we know, the drama is in the details and execution.

As with many adapted-from-stage musicals, two young leads are played by
talented singers, and the older parts by serious actors can sing well
enough. Streep manages extremely well. Her performance is so
professional and assured it leaves others standing. Fortunately, it is
perhaps easy to paper over any cracks in musical comedy. Sweeney Todd
relied heavily on Depp's charisma and stunning cinematography. Across
the Universe, too heavily on the songs. Mamma Mia!, on the other hand,
simply tailors everything to its joyous headlong rush. The songs fit
naturally to the action. Streep even manages to sing them with her
tongue firmly in cheek. She confesses to having been a "stupid reckless
little slut" but then says she "grew up". (To which her pals chime in,
"Well grow back down again!") The film is not without faults. There is
a notable lack of chemistry between the people that throw themselves
rapturously against each others' faces. Even Streep looks less than
convincing in a brief lips-mash. And the men are a bit croaky in the
singing department (Hugh Grant might even have been a preferable
casting choice). And some of the time-line is wobbly. For instance,
strange as it may seem, music from more than twenty years ago does not
all come from the same era. So reminiscing about flower power (early
sixties) in the same breath as a Johnny Rotten t-shirt (Sex Pistols,
mid-late seventies) is either anachronistic or wishful thinking.

Sadly, I am of a generation that can remember Abba-mania. The records
would shoot to number one. Yet even then few people would admit to
buying them. I used to manage a night club, and Abba was great music to
ask a girl up to dance. My entire chat-up repertoire at that time
consisted of, "Would you like to dance?" and "Do you want to come back
for a coffee?" But girls would be so happy dancing to Mamma Mia they'd
say yes anyway. I'd fall in love with a new girl each week. Ah, those
were the days! Now there's a new generation of Abba fans who have no
need to 'come out of a closet'. Abba is retro-chique. Even Madonna
segued an Abba riff into one of her songs. From karaoke to hen nights.
From '70s' nights to gay dance-floors. Dress up. Camp it up. Sing it
up. Get sassy and cheesy. Or, if you're old enough to remember, fly
back in time to wonderful memories.

Mamma Mia!, whatever detractors might say, has been one of the most
successful stage shows of recent times. Supported by the same director
and original band members, the movie may well reach the similar fan
bases. Or just the party spirit in all of us.
<|_=00=_|>
Armed with irresistible hooks, soaring melodies and near-celestial
vocal stylings, the Swedish pop group ABBA churned out a body of
insanely catchy and superbly crafted tunes - "Waterloo," "SOS,"
"Fernando," "Dancing Queen," "The Winner Takes it All," etc. - that
made it the world's top-selling musical act of the 1970's and early
1980's. Several decades later, ABBA's music became the basis for a hit
stage musical entitled "Mamma Mia!" in which a simple narrative was
deftly woven around many of the quartet's songs. Now, the
much-ballyhooed movie version of "Mamma Mia!," written by Catherine
Johnson and directed by Phyllida Lloyd, has arrived on the scene.

The story takes place on a beautiful Greek island where the
never-married Donna (Meryl Streep) single-handedly runs a modest hotel
for an ever-thinning crowd of tourists. Her daughter, Sophie (the
charming Amanda Seyfried), has never known who her real father is,
mainly because Donna herself doesn't even know. With the help of her
mother's diary from twenty years ago, Sophie narrows the candidates
down to three (Pierce Brosnan, Colin Firth and Stellan Skarsgard), then
secretly invites them to her wedding in the hope that she will be able
to figure out which of them is her real father in time to have him
accompany her down the aisle.

On stage, "Mamma Mia!" succeeded primarily because it was able to keep
its wafer-thin storyline modest in scale and life-sized in scope. But
blown up to the magnified proportions of the big screen, the material
becomes a compendium of overacting (Julie Walters being the most
egregious culprit in that regard), ham-handed literalization, forced
spontaneity, and production values that look both gaudy and chintzy at
one and the same time. Moreover, the direction is clunky, the
choreography abysmal (especially compared to what we were treated to in
"Hairspray" just a year ago), the photography either over or
underexposed (depending on whether the scene is set at night or during
the day), and the singing not unlike what one might hear emanating from
the local pub on an average karaoke-night.

In fact, there has always been an inherent problem built into "Mamma
Mia!," which is that much of ABBA's charm derives from the crystalline
voices of its lead singers, Anni-Frid Lyngstad and Agnetha Faltskog.
Take away those harmonies and at least a certain percentage of that
charm is lost. Now the movie version of "Mamma Mia!" comes along and
simply compounds the problem by hiring big-name actors rather than
trained singers to somehow interpret the pieces for us. Indeed, this
must be the only musical in movie history made up almost entirely of
people who can't sing (at least in the old days they used to dub the
voices in if they had to). One has to give Streep brownie points for at
least trying to belt out the tunes, but her rendition of "The Winner
Takes it All," which was the rafter-rattling showstopper in the stage
version, falls flat due not only to her own inadequacies as a vocalist
but to the awkward staging and foolish hand gestures she uses to
accompany her singing (almost as if she were trying to act out the
lyrics as she's singing them). Actually, I've never understood why
anyone would buy either the original cast recording or the soundtrack
to "Mamma Mia!" anyway when the real thing is readily available and
clearly far superior to any imitation.

All that being said, I am still inclined to at least half-heartedly
recommend that people go to see this movie for a number of reasons.
First, because the music itself (written by Benny Anderson and Bjorn
Ulvaeus) is fun, infectious and finally irresistible, no matter how
much the singers may be unintentionally stomping all over it; second,
because even though their singing leaves much to be desired, Streep,
Bosnan and Seyfried somehow make us care about the characters and the
silly little predicament they're caught up in; and third, because there
are a number of scenes that actually work quite nicely, the best being
when Donna sings the sweet mother's lament "Slipping Through My
Fingers" (a song clearly within Streep's limited vocal range) to her
soon-to-be-wed daughter. Streep and Seyfried are both very moving and
poignant not only in that particular scene but in all of the scenes in
which they appear together.

For the half dozen or so audience members who aren't already familiar
with the ABBA oeuvre, one can only hope that they will use "Mamma Mia!"
as a springboard to sampling the real deal.
<|_=00=_|>
TheFanCarpet.Com - Initial Reaction

Take a Chance... It's Surprisingly Brilliant!

While the majority of the film is brilliantly silly, Meryl Streep gives
us an emotional show stopping performance of 'The Winner Takes It All.
Who wouldn't pay to see James Bond singing 'SOS'? Pierce Brosnan was
humorously over-emoting everything but it worked perfectly within the
context of the film.

Donna and Sophie (Mother and Daughter) are perfectly cast with an
uncanny similarity in both looks and personality. Julie Walters almost
steals the whole show, sorry I mean film, with her performance of 'Take
a Chance on Me'.

It does take you about 20 minutes to settle down from the excitement of
this outstanding cast singing their hearts out. I'm not the biggest
'movical' fan but if go in with an open mind and a bunch of people and
you'll leave uplifted and pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
I did enjoy this romp in the Greek Islands and was surprised at how
well Meryl Streep sang. It's light, full of froth and bubble and
perhaps has some aspects of Grease and Bollywood in it. The reason the
music works I feel is that they haven't really messed with the
arrangements of the songs keeping them generally faithful to the Abba
originals. But Pierce Brosnan's vocal efforts were abysmal, almost
laughable. Perhaps it was meant to be a send up of the original songs
all the way through but he really did manage to mangle the vocals in my
opinion. If you have seen the musical on stage you will know what to
expect and there are some funny moments in the film and the Greek
islands are as always a superb backdrop for the action.
<|_=00=_|>
I like Abba but couldn't stand the singing, 

Why the hell didn't they voice over the original version ?

This must be a rhetorical question : "Just to prevent Agnetha and
Anni-Frid from getting any cent." 

How generous !

Next the plot : It is about a bunch of silly British people that
colonize (is there any other word for people that invade other
countries to bring their despicable habits and ignore the locals) a
beautiful Greek island Without even trying to speak a word of Greek,
they manage an hotel for British tourists. (hope the credit crunch
ruined them).

Go to Benidorm (Spain) and meet those morons and see how they behave
there.

For me it was simply painful, I had to leave the theater, my wife
stayed and told me that the audience was clapping during the credits.
(Expectations are quite low these times.)

I think the only thing that made the success of this movie is Abba
music. A computer generated musical with chimpanzees singing Abba would
have succeeded as well. 

If you like Abba, watch Priscilla... the movie is much better.
<|_=00=_|>
Relentless like one of those loud action movies. The entire cast seems
to be on speed. I didn't quite get the director's intentions if any. I
wonder if she's ever seen a Stanley Donen, Vincent Minnelli or even a
George Sidney musical. Structure, please! This is one hell of a mess
and I loved Abba. The costumes the unflattering photography -
unflattering towards the actors but loving towards the locations) The
one thing that makes the whole thing bearable is the sight of Meryl
Streep making a fool of herself. No chemistry with her friends
(Christine Baranski and Julie Walters) think of Streep with Lily Tomlyn
in the Altman film and you'll understand what I was hoping for. I was
embarrassed in particular by Pierce Brosnam and Colin Firth. The
audience, however, seemed to enjoy it so it probably it's just me.
