
When my wife dragged me to this movie I thought I'd be bored. The
trailers show nothing except the little monster growing quickly and
swimming around happily. What I did not expect is the wonderful, and
entertaining background story set in Scotland during WWII. 

Now the film has a modern frame as well as the WWII story. An old man
tells two young visitors to Loch Ness what they assume is a tall tale.
Frames usually don't add much to movies but in this frame is an
exception.

In WWII a young boy, who doesn't know his father was lost at sea, finds
a strange egg. While the egg grows into a likable, gigantic plesiosaur,
a strange man, who might be a German spy, starts as caretaker of the
boy's father's estate, and a gunnery unit takes over the estates
grounds. The captain of the gunnery unit takes a shine to the boy's
Mom, and tries to instill discipline to the boy by treating him like a
drill sergeant would a recruit. Meanwhile, the new caretaker decides to
keep the boy's new pet a secret. and wins the respect of the boy's
mother. 

Although there is no real violence in this movie there is a killer
(hunter) cook and some shooting. In fact there is a scene with cannon
fire that might scare young children. And of course the cook has a
tough bull-dog who likes to chase things. 

The characters here are well developed and the acting and
cinematography is superb. This movie will not disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer and the making of The Water Horse: Legend of the
Deep, I don't know, something about this film just captured me. It just
seemed like a really creative story and looked like a great family
film. So, I decided to go ahead and check it out today and I have to
say that it really did live up to my expectations, it was a cute film
for the whole family to enjoy. It's a different version of Free Willy I
think, lol, sounds crazy, I know, but I think you'll agree when you see
it. It's definitely a tear jerker, but one of the better films I've
seen in a little while in the theater. It was made very well and I'm
surprised it hasn't gotten more notice, but like I said, I think I just
saw something special in the story. We haven't had a Lochness monster
movie, all we know is the infamous picture that has never been prove to
be fake or real, and The Water Horse: Legend of the Deep tells us the
story behind that picture.

Agnus is a young and lonely boy in Scotland, his father who he was very
close with has just gone off into WWII to fight. His home has just been
taken over by English soldiers to fight off the German's. His family
has lost something too, life and laughter. But when Agnus comes across
what looks like a strange rock, is actually an egg left by an Water
Horse, the rarest of all creatures, there can only be one in the world
at a time. But he takes care of the baby who is water bound, while
protecting him from his mom and the soldiers. But when the water horse,
he named Crusoe, has grown too big, he and a family friend put him in
the Lochness Lake where he is spotted and is now known as the infamous
Lochness Monster.

The Water Horse: Legend of the Deep is truly and honestly a good film.
It has such a magical touch like The Secret Garden, where it's a
serious story, but it's for the family. I thought it was very well
made, the visual effects are very good and not over done, which was
great, because obviously the Lochness monster is going to be CGI, but
they made it look so real, and so lovable, lol, like I said, I did cry,
it's a tear jerker. The characters are terrific, they really found
terrific actors for the roles. Alex Etel does a beautiful break out
performance as Angus and was so charming. I would highly recommend The
Water Horse: Legend of the Deep, it's one of the best family films I
have seen in a while.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
It is reassuring to see more and more family-oriented films being
issued without everyone having to rely on the Disney and Pixar folks to
carry all the weight. That said, it would have been interesting to see
what Disney might have done with this story. In the end, I would highly
recommend this for family viewing - it has laughs, thrills, beautiful
scenery, and a heartwarming storyline that offers opportunities for
family discussion.

As with most things, there are good and bad sides to this film. On the
plus side, the acting is above-par by all the actors(the adult male
leads look startlingly like a young Liam Neeson and a Gaelic Antonio
Banderas), the location footage is gorgeous, the period "feels right",
and the title namesake is very well executed and most believable. Major
kudos to the special effects teams, they did a magnificent job.

On the downside, the denouement is telegraphed well in advance and
comes as no surprise, and there are some unanswered questions and
several plot lines end without resolution. I have a feeling a
"directors cut" would probably restore studio-mandated cuts and resolve
these issues. The Director, Jay Russell, has helmed other very
successful films (including a little-known but personal favorite "End
of the Line") which were also obviously "fiddled with" by studio
decree. Such is the business of film-making.

In the end, I greatly enjoyed this film, and plan to add it to my vast
collection when it is released for home viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from an advanced screening of this movie and I really
liked it - it isn't phenomenal or overly brilliant - but what it is is
very charming and a good time for the family or couple or anyone
looking for a feel good movie. The acting is well-done by the entire
the "creature" is cute and believable with enough "awwwwwwww" moments,
but not too much to become redundant. I read about the legend of Loch
Ness when I was about 6 years old and imagined and fantasized how
awesome it would be to see and witness something like that - this is
probably as close as I will ever come - so in essence, I've waited 30
years for this movie - and my family and I enjoyed it very much.
<|_=00=_|>
Our family (2 kids in high school) went to this film Christmas night.
It was a perfect wrap up to a glorious family day. The story line was
told by the camera as a story should be told; with reflective moments,
beautiful long scenic shots and great close-ups on some of the best
character faces one can find in a pub. All of the time taken for this
was appreciated by our family. The CGI was beautifully woven into the
film so that it did not take away from it, but rather created the water
horse to fit beautifully with the surrounding images. He/she was
charming and we all root for the dream that there is a Nessie! Mum
(Grammy) is British and flew Spitfires in WWII. She told of regiments
taking over estates and the events in this movie matches her stories.
Two small critical comments: The male/female travelers who open and
close the film were far too forced and it felt like they were given the
roles as friends of a director/producer? It's too bad because the
opening and closing of the film felt awkward and unconnected with the
rest of the charming story. There is a sequence of footage of the young
lad working that repeated itself that felt like it was just looking for
extra shots and couldn't find them. Having done that as an amateur, I
was surprised when the pros did this! Enjoy this film. Thank-you to all
who worked on it!
<|_=00=_|>
Oh man! Me and my five year old son saw this movie tonight and we had a
rollicking good time..... it started off slow and surprisingly somber (
the kids dad is off at war; he's lonely, sad ).... however, once the
water horse itself grows and is released into the loch, the movie turns
into magic! Seeing the full-grown Cruscoe rise from the depths of the
water had us both wildly cheering out loud, and the scene when the kid
rode on his back and went for an underwater sea romp was pure celluloid
gold -- beautifully filmed and an AMAZING RIDE!!!! Furthermore, while
the "drama" at the beginning lagged, I actually find myself kind of
into the anti-war drama towards the end. All in all, a most satisfying
night out at the movies!
<|_=00=_|>
CGIÂ—of course: You can't depict the Loch Ness monster with just the
putative photo of the famous myth. But after you accept the clever
graphics, The Water Horse: Legend of the Deep is just plain ol' good
story telling, fit for pre-adolescent kids and their young-at-heart
parents.

Narrator Brian Cox (his character is not identified) tells of WWII era
in Scotland at the famous loch, where young Angus MacMorrow finds an
egg at the shore and nurtures the lovable monster until he has to go to
the loch to survive. The Scottish regiment occupying the home and the
new handyman, Lewis Mowbray (Ben Chaplin), complicate life and endanger
the elusive monster. Although the usual clueless mom (Emily Watson) and
dangerous thugs are here to further the horror genre staples, the
challenges Angus faces are instructive about the collision of reality
and fantasy for an adolescent.

WWII looms large, a fitting embodiment of the challenges the unknown
and potentially dangerous can be to the stability of the world. The
fantasy world, centered on the monster, who becomes his best friend,
collides with the reality of people who want to destroy the monster and
the boy's imaginative life.

Mix in all this with the father who has been away to war, never to
return, and you have a child's romance with the right balance of love
and hate, certainty and uncertainty, illusion and reality. It's all
much less sophisticated than Shrek, and more like Whale Rider, also
filmed in New Zealand. In the latter, a girl rides a whale as an
embodiment of the country's hope; in Water Horse, the boy rides the
monster to expunge his own fear of water and elude the malignant forces
of the adult world. Pretty heady stuff, that.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film this afternoon with my partner. I agree with other
posters that the opening modern day scene in the pub, setting up the
narrator, felt forced and false. Otherwise, what a wonderful film this
was! It's a real "coming of age" story of an introverted young boy,
missing his dad (off to war) terribly, and the events that help him
come out of his shell and begin to interact with others. The CGI water
horse was totally convincing, from newborn baby just out of the egg to
full-blown adulthood. It really had a personality. The actors were
convincing in their roles, too. My partner and I were brought almost to
tears, in a good way, by some scenes. The ending, which I will not
reveal, brought the tale full circle beautifully. If not for the
jarring narrator scenes, I would have rated this film higher than I
did.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just returned from seeing The Water Horse with four of my
children aged 16 to 4. We all thoroughly enjoyed it. I have to say the
beginning was a little slow as Angus found the egg, but once all the
characters were introduced, and Crusoe had hatched, the plot revved
along. The pompous Army Captain was fun to watch! The WWII surrounds
were wonderful, all the casting was excellent- no wrong notes by any of
the cast. The boy playing Angus was really enjoyable to watch. It was a
"children's movie" but as a forty-something adult I was swept along
into the adventure and enjoyed it very much. I loved how the plot was
multi-layered and plenty of tension as Crusoe comes under threat from
some trigger-happy army soldiers. I have to point out that Lake
Whakatipu in NZ's South Island was used for a lot of the Loch Ness
scenes so should get credit from those who loved the scenery! Bravo to
WETA Workshop for the realism and believability of the water horse-
just gorgeous! He/she has plenty of screen time too. This is a great
movie for all ages. It is sure-footed and very enjoyable!! For Kiwis
watching it's fun spotting familiar faces in the supporting cast.
<|_=00=_|>
Heartwarming family entertainment. This movie has the feel of "ET" and
"Dear Frankie" another great Scottish film. The setting is near Loch
Ness in Scotland during World War II. The landscape of Scotland is a
beautiful backdrop for the movie and the character of Angus just finds
his way into your heart. There is laughter as well as many touching
scenes. Of course, there is the anti-hero, there always is. And the war
in Europe is also a "character" in the film as it affects people's
lives. The theater where I saw the movie had many children in
attendance and they all seemed to love this movie. And there is enough
in the story to keep the adults involved also.
