
Last night I went to a screening of this film and didn't know what to
expect. I have to say this is the best Adam Sandler comedy since Happy
Gilmore. It seems that with this new comedy duo that Sandler got his
magic back. This story is about two firefighters in Brooklyn who have
been best friends for what seems like forever. Larry Valentine (James)
is a single dad trying to raise two kids on his own and Chuck Levine
(Sandler) is a notorious playboy who has a new girl(s) every night.
When Larry tries to change his beneficiary from his late wife to his
children he finds out that the process would take a long time. Because
he's a firefighter, and worries that he could go at anytime, he wants
to make sure his kids will be OK. After a traumatic incident he feels
even more pressure. When he finds a loophole in the system, he asks
Chuck to be his domestic partner. Throughout the movie their
relationship is under fire and it's up to their attorney, Alex (Jessica
Beal), who believes they're gay, to save them from criminal charges.
They try to keep their relationship a secret but it eventually gets out
that they're a couple. Everyone they know starts treating them
differently and they are witness to the discrimination homosexuals face
on a regular basis. Little do they know, when they defend themselves,
they defend gay people in general. Dan Aykroyd plays their Captain at
the fire house and is also their voice of reason. Steve Buscemi plays
an inspector who is sent to their house to catch them at their game.
There are numerous cameos, by some of everyone's favorites, and they
show up at some of the most random times making their appearance in the
movie that much funnier. When I left the theater I felt like a did 100
crunches because I was laughing so hard. It didn't drag, and it didn't
get overly sappy, at any point. Some of the jokes are stereotypical,
but it's the first time most of them have been on the big screen so it
was fresh humor. I sat next to my gay friend through the screening and
I've never seen a man laugh so hard in my entire life. So, for all you
people who think this movie will be a bash at homosexuals, I say watch
the movie and then make your opinions. I enjoyed this movie so much
that, when it comes out in July, I will PAY to go see it with my
friends.
<|_=00=_|>
OK it is full of stereotypes, yes the movie does old jokes, it is
fairly predictable and we have seen it before. The crucial question is
this  is it funny? The simple answer is yes. My wife wasn't enthused
about this one, but she laughed heartily. For a comedy to be any good
you need to laugh out loud at least 6 times. I think I laughed about
10-12 times. Some of the scenes were set up really well and the comedy
acting was superb.

OK the plot is unbelievable and a little silly, but it's a comedy! Give
it a go. If you love meet the parents, dumb and dumber, there is
something about Mary and Kingpin, you will enjoy the show. If you have
a cinematic bypass and love politically correct left-wing tripe  then
this one isn't for you. Its as simple as that!
<|_=00=_|>
Gay jokes have always been staple of Adam Sandler comedies. It goes
with Sandler's juvenile, boyish sense of humor. As far back as his
"Saturday Night Live" days, Sandler has been serving up gay jokes left
and right. It was only a matter of time until Sandler decided to extend
his love of gay humor to feature length. What's surprising is how well
I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry actually works. I've often said the
best movies are the ones that have a point for existence. When millions
are being spent, there should be a reason. Most of Sandler's pictures
have had a message, however small they be. Billy Madison made it clear
to its young audience to stay in school. Click made it painfully
obvious that family is important. Now 'Chuck and Larry' comes with a
message about tolerance and acceptance. I wasn't going to write a
comment about 'Chuck and Larry', but after reading the critics'
extremely venomous reaction to the flick, I think that they miss the
point. Many have labeled it hypocritical for wanting to laugh at gays
while standing up for them. Honestly I think the critics who say that
had their minds made up about the film before they viewed it. The
characters making homophobic remarks and jokes are seen as ignorant and
unaware. True, there are stereotypes present, though most of them are
stereotypes that the characters believe to be true. I found Brokeback
Mountain to have just as many if not more stereotypes than are present
here yet that was intended to be a serious drama.

80% of the jokes in 'Chuck & Larry' work the ones that don't are simply
due to pacing. There's about ten more minutes of fat that could have
been sucked out of the running time. Luckily, it's nowhere as
dreadfully long as the Knocked Up was. However, I do wish that the film
shared Knocked Up's R-rating (trims were made to make this a PG-13).
There are times when the editing is extremely obvious and distracting,
which took me out of the scene at times. Here's hoping for the original
cut to be released on DVD. Somehow I doubt that it will. As satisfying
as 'Chuck & Larry' is, seeing it as intended would be more fulfilling.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Is it possible to claim to support marriage rights for same-sex couples
and still be homophobic? After seeing "I Now Pronounce You Chuck and
Larry" the answer is yes. Two heterosexual Brooklyn firemen (Kevin
James and Adam Sandler) file a domestic partnership claim so that one
of the men can protect his children in case of his death, him being a
widower. In spite of the specious setup, the opportunities for a
charming farce were all there, but Sandler (and director Dennis "as an
actor I was who they got when they couldn't get Bruce Dern so I now
direct bad comedies instead" Dugan) mucked it up with a bunch of lame
jokes and condescending stereotypes of gays.

The woman (Jessica Biel) who advises Chuck and Larry to beware of a
fraud investigation is a heterosexual woman with a flaming queen for a
brother. Everyone at the AIDS benefit is a voguing, prancing flamer
dressed in costumes that would make Elton John squirm, and when
anti-gay protesters crowd the outside of the building where the event
is held, only Adam Sandler and Jessica Biel's characters have the
courage to stand up to them at all. In another scene, the mailman hits
on one of them. What's worse is Kevin James' character's effeminate
son. Apparently because he wants to try out for the school musical and
can dance, he must be gay.

This is not an issue of political correctness, which I abhor. In fact,
I don't mind gay jokes that are funny. But there's a line between jokes
about homosexuality and making fun of gays, which this movie crosses
like it was the finish line of the 100 yard dash. This film's message
is apparently that "gays are sick freaks, but let them get married
anyway." That is a profoundly anti-gay message. SInce GLAAD approved
this film just as they also approved the patronizing BS of "Will and
Grace" and "Queer as Folk", they ought to change their name to the Gay
and Lesbian Alliance Against Intellectual Honesty. Adding insult to
that injury, the film's funny moments are too few and far between.

What's perplexing is how Barry Fanaro, a former writer for "The Golden
Girls," a classic 1980s sitcom which had a few episodes about
non-stereotyped gays, got into this mess. I guess Lifetime Network's
been stiffing him on residuals and he's sick of Ramen Noodles. There is
also an embarrassingly bad performance by Rob Schneider as an Asian
justice of the peace. In fact, I'm more offended by this than Mickey
Rooney's character in "Breakfast at Tiffany's;" at least that film
could use the excuse that it was 1961, but there's no excuse here. That
the untalented Schneider is half-Filipino does not make it better. And
how did Dan Aykroyd or the obnoxious David Spade get involved in this
bigoted debacle? With all the SNL alumni in this vomit-inducing
garbage, I guess I'll be watching MAD TV from now on.
<|_=00=_|>
Dugan's 'I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry' starts off like a typical
Adam Sandler comedy with the usual lame jokes, but things take off when
Kevin James steps in. Parts of the film do remind one of 'Three To
Tango' but it has its own jokes and is quite an enjoyable comedic
flick. It rests on a thin plot that is lifted by the chemistry between
the actors. James and Sandler are supported by a hilarious cast, which
includes Ving Rhames (like you've never seen before), Steve Buscemi,
Dan Akroyd and Rob Scheider, that provides some excellent comic relief.
Jessica Biel has never looked better (what a body!). Child actor Cole
Morgen is remarkably talented. And of course Kevin James and Adam
Sandler are great. While the film is full of fun and laugh-out-loud
moments, fortunately it's not offensive in any way, considering the
theme. It's quite pro-gay. Overall, this is a fun film. If one is in
search of something light and some laughter, 'I Now Pronounce You Chuck
& Larry' is a recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
By far the worst comedy of the year. I do not know why anyone would
think that Chuck and Larry was funny. Not only was this movie not
believable, it was boring. In no way was this movie believable. If you
actually think Gay men act this way, then you are living on the moon. I
don't know why certain actors even had cameos in this film. This movie
wasn't even remotely funny. The plot was dumb, the jokes were bad, and
the movie was way too long. Chuck and Larry was not funny at all and
was borderline offensive at times. Save yourself 2 hours and watch
anything else with Adam Sandler or Kevin James. This movie is not worth
the time. You will thank me for it!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie yesterday with my boyfriend, my best friend, and
another male. Several minutes into the movie I turned to my best friend
and whispered "What have these guys dragged us to?" and rolled my eyes
at the movie that I assumed would be another hour and a half of male
oriented comedy. I was way wrong. Half an hour into the movie my sides
hurt from laughing, and by the end I couldn't stop smiling at not only
the humour, but the surprising good moral taught by this movie. 

What begins as lame humour accompanied by nearly naked women, quickly
turns into a heart-warming comedy about friendship and the definition
of love. Not to say it doesn't still have a fair bit of goofiness and
humour, because there's definitely a lot of that too; hilarious movie
in my opinion. 

I ended up being so glad we had chosen to attend this movie. When I saw
the previews weeks before I hadn't even considered going to see it, but
now I'm happy I did. Hilarious movie, great actors, and a cute message
hidden underneath, what more could you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
This film is basically an average comedy. You can poke a lot of holes
in the plot and there is a lot of stupidity. Yet, there are some parts
that make you laugh out loud. This is an entertaining film, but your
own sense of humor should dictate whether you want to see it or not.

Sandler and James play New York firefighters. The basic premise is that
Kevin James' character finds a loophole in the system so that if he
marries Sandler, his children will easily get his employee benefits.
Without a wife, his children would be held in limbo by the state for a
while before they get any benefits. This, of course, is a stretch, but
since it is a comedy you just kind of go with it.

So after James saves Sandler's life, Sandler agrees to go through with
this. This is where the gay jokes ensue. Add in Ving Rhames who is a
gay firefighter who comes out of the closet due to James and Sandler
and also add in Jessica Biel as some eye candy who Sandler badly wants
to date and you have all the ingredients of this comedy. Rob Schneider
is funny playing an Asian minister. This movie is pro-gay I would say,
so it shouldn't offend homosexuals, and Schneider is part Asian, so I
guess he is supposed to be off the hook for making fun of that ethnic
group. Anyway, all the jokes are supposed to be in good fun, but some
people might get offended. If you are the type of person who gets
offended easily, then you probably should avoid this movie.

Some nice cameos in the film and the soundtrack is largely comprised of
known gay artists.

I saw this in the theater with my girlfriend. You would probably be
smart to avoid the pricey theater tickets and wait until this comes out
on DVD. This is not going to be a classic comedy and is not close to
one of Sandler's best. At the same time, I don't think that it is an
awful film either. Rating 6 0f 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Chuck and Larry are buddies and fellow fire-fighters in New York. They
are very close and would do anything for one another so, when a problem
with Larry's pension arrangements comes up that can be solved by
entering into a civil partnership, Chuck agrees to pose as his
"husband" in order to solve the admin problem. Sadly a high profile
fraud case in another state means that the "couple" are under scrutiny
from obsessive investigator Clint Fritzer and must play their roles to
the full. Hilarity naturally ensues but can everyone also learn a
lesson as well?

It dismays me to hear people praising this film for its "sensitive
handling" of the subject of homosexuality and the way it challenges
bigoted thinking on the subject  such thoughts can be found in the
comments section on this site and they dismay me because sadly to some
viewers this film may be the nearest thing to "discussion" on
homosexuality that they have had. In this way maybe one could make a
case for this film being an effective but blunt tool for the mostly
teenage male fan-base of Adam Sandler to be "reached" and "educated" by
giving them what they want in terms of crude humour and broad
stereotypes but then also leaving them with a message that will teach
them the error of their ways. It would certainly be nice to say that
but one cannot help feel that this is not the reality and that, rather
than using the crude stereotypes as a vehicle to deliver a message to a
traditionally homophobic fan-base, the film is actually using the
message to facilitate lots of homosexual stereotypes, jokes and
clichés.

This is what the film does throughout  it wants to have its cake and
then also get to eat it. So, spoiler alert, it turns out that
homosexuals are people too. Apparently (according to the film) it is
NOT OK to treat them differently and exclude them from things and
anyone who does, well, y'know what, ell, turns out those that are do
are the real jerks. That is about as sophisticated as the message gets
but that is perhaps to be expected and for the target audience maybe
that is challenging enough. Unfortunately for the wider audience or
casual viewer it will come off as little more than patronising and not
make up for the fact that the majority of the film flies in the face of
this. What the rest of the film does is draw laughs from the fact that
two straight characters have to "be gay"  which of course means all
the stereotypical stuff that we all know. So nobody wants to pick up
the soap in the shower (because all a gay man needs to be aroused is
the sight of someone's ass), disco music is played, finger-snapping is
everywhere and so on. Fortunately it is sporadically amusing and
provided me with a few chuckles whether I wanted to give them up or
not. It is not THAT funny though and the casual viewer will mostly just
let the brash, obvious humour wash over them without it doing much.

The cast buy into it well though and do their best to sell it. Sandler
is his usual rather annoying self and does his best to prove he cannot
act by being the usual "irresistible to women" thing rather than the
"creepy man-child" that he would be were his character real. James
comes off a lot better I'm not really seen him before although he
probably does fit TV better than films but he does have a good comic
presence and also does OK with coming over more of a regular guy. Loved
Ving Rhames in it  sending up his tough guy image while Buscemi,
Aykroyd and a few others are amusing in support. Biel has an amazing
body and that is pretty much what she is asked to do  be in underwear
and look stunning, both of which she effortlessly does but nothing else
comes forward.

This film is not the awful piece of comedy that some critics have said
but it is a simple, stereotypical comedy about homosexual clichés that
tries to justify it by having a very basic message that most people
should have already learnt in the 1990's. While some may praise the
film for having this message I find it more concerning that people
still see this message as somehow "worthy" rather than "d'uh  of
course". Some laughs help it through and Sandler's fans will enjoy it
despite the "message" but for the casual viewer it is just another
clumsy and crude Adam Sandler film.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm really sorry that I paid for this movie and lost my time... the 4
stars I give to the movie are for the message, which, after all, can't
be denied to be cute... love is all in the end! I haven't really seen
that many movies with Adam Sandler in them, but the ones I've seen,
I've liked them, so I thought, hey, Adam's in a gay movie, great!...

I guess to the eyes of most straights who are not that involved in the
gay thing, the jokes in the movie were awesome.. yeah... it's all
stereotypes and we make fun of the stereotypes everywhere... but that
is the thing... while stereotypes are made fun of, they don't really
educate, clarify, or any similar, and that, to the gay community is
something very crucial at this point of the history... At this point,
the gay community NEEDS that the mainstream knows what homosexuality
REALLY is..

The movie presents gays as all being sissies, effeminate, girly, etc...
come to think of it... even the grumpy fireman who turned out to be gay
(being the reason to all his anger, as he was afraid of coming out)
ended up being a sissie..

Now, don't take me wrong... sissies have nothing wrong... they're
actually fabulous, and they are PART of the DIVERSITY of the gay
community... but they are not the total... there are a HUGE more types
of people, just like in the "straight community" and it's not fair that
we gays are always thought of as girly guys who squeal when they see a
mouse, once again, not because there's something wrong with that, but
because it's just not the way everyone is... after all, everyone is
entitled to individuality.

Some of you have seen it, for example, in the "Brokeback Mountain"
film. Those two cowboys, being bisexual both of them, were not at all
sissies, but there wasn't much problem with that movie in the sense
that it dealed with only two... however this time in the Adam Sandler
movie ALL LGBT people is presented as being gay...

catch my grip?
