
This film is about a social worker taking a young girl into her home,
as the girl's parents tried to kill her.

Though Renee Zellweger is not particularly convincing as a social
worker, she conveys her feeling of threat very well, making her
stressed out character vivid. The plot is good, as at first it makes
you feel so sympathetic and sorry for the girl, then it slowly prepares
you for something entirely different. The story is so engaging and
scary, that I wanted to see more of what's going to happen, yet I
wanted to see less because it's scary. "Case 39" is successful in
creating a suspenseful atmosphere, full of threat and uncertainty. I
don't know why "Case 39" is having trouble getting distribution and and
a release date, as I find it a very scary horror film.
<|_=00=_|>
I checked this movie out after watching a trailer online and I gotta
say, it delivered. It was a nice little surprise for this major horror
fan. It didn't rely on the "jump scare" which so many horror movies
depend on lately, although it had a few. It created a very creepy
atmosphere that stayed til the very end. Given, this movie could've
supported better acting (I'm looking at you, Renee) and directing but
if you're looking to be entertained and a little creeped out for 90
minutes then check it out. It runs in the tradition of movies like "The
Reaping" and "Orphan" where the child in the movie makes you feel a
little uneasy the entire time. Defiitely one of the better straight to
DVD movies in awhile. If you are a horror fan then this movie should
put an evil lil grin on your bloody face. However, if you stray more
towards romcoms and drama then go rent Love Actually or some other
random terrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Case 39 would have been a bit predictable even if the trailer had not
revealed the mystery behind its story.For better or for worse, the
story is an homogeneous combination of the well known elements we have
seen on many movies which show kids involved on paranormal
events.However, despite its lack of innovation, I had a good time
watching Case 39, thanks to Christian Alvart's concise and dynamic
direction and the competent performances from Renée Zellweger, Jodelle
Ferland and Callum Keith Rennie.

There are various elements in the screenplay we have seen in other
movies.However, even though the story lacks of originality, Case 39 is
entertaining, because Alvart created a good rhythm and some solid
moments of tension.What is more, the story is well structured.

Zellweger made her return to horror with Case 39 after 15 years (since
her unworthy appearance on the atrocious The Return of the Texas
Chainsaw Massacre).In recent years, she has created a very different
image, but her performance in Case 39 feels realistic and
effective.Ferland creates a good aura of threaten with her role; I
liked not to see her trying to apparent evilness, because that is the
point where almost all the child actors I have seen in the past in
similar movies fail.And even though he has short screen-time, Rennie
brings a good level of intensity to his character.As for the rest of
the actors, they feel a bit bland.

In summary, Case 39 is nothing extraordinary or highly memorable; but I
think it is effective for having a good time, and I recommend it
because of that.
<|_=00=_|>
I found it somewhat difficult to rate this film in all honesty. Some
elements are surprisingly good, while others are just cliché'd and
melodramatic. I enjoyed it overall and would have given it an 8/9 had
there not been various glaring inconsistencies that were impossible for
me to ignore. I've never been one to overly obsess about plot holes or
implausibilities, but at times Case 39 doesn't even bother to follow
the rules that it's made for itself.

Renee Zellweger plays Emily, a child protective services worker, who
ultimately saves a 10 year old girl, Lilly from her abusive parents.
She takes a maternal interest in Lilly but problems arise shortly after
having removed the girl from her home. At this point, even if you
haven't seen the trailer (I didn't), you can guess where the story is
headed. This is not a problem because it works in the films favor. The
tension and buildup are excellent as we wait for Renee to catch up to
where we are. We know what's going to happen and so it creates an
uneasiness that stays with us throughout the entirety of the film.
There are some genuinely creepy moments ( I think I counted 3), and a
host of other cheap "jumpy" scenes that sometimes work and sometimes
don't. The movie managed to catch me off guard a couple times, and
seeing as how I'm a huge horror buff, I'd say that's impressive. More
times than not, I can anticipate a scare, but there were some scenes
that had me on edge.

The acting is adequate amongst all the principal characters, the
direction choppy in places, the look of the film is beautiful. Once
again I just had a problem with the factors that didn't add up. For
instance, if a character is what the film says it is, then why can't it
get itself out of the situation that occurs at the end of the film? By
definition of what this character is, the laws that confine "normal"
people shouldn't apply to it, right? Also the explanation for what "it"
wants is very unclear and flimsy at best. Without a clear understanding
of the motivation, without an answer to "WHY?", it left me feeling a
little unstable about the whole story.

All in all, it's still a great way to spend a couple hours if you can
spare them. I consider it money well spent. If nothing else, you will
definitely be entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
The dedicated social assistant of child service Emily Jenkins (Renée
Zellweger) has a huge backlog of cases of abused children to take care.
However, her chief Wayne (Adrian Lester) delivers two more cases for
her and Emily heads to interview the family of Lilith Sullivan (Jodelle
Ferland), the young abused daughter of Edward Sullivan (Callum Keith
Rennie) and Margaret Sullivan (Kerry O'Malley). Emily finds the parents
very weird persons and forces Wayne to summon them for additional
interviews. Emily connects to the sweet Lilith and during the night,
she feels that the girl would be in danger and together with Detective
Barron (Ian McShane), they invade the Sullivan's house and find the
couple trying to burn Lilith inside the oven. Lilith is sent to a child
care and she asks Emily to adopt her. Emily requests to take care of
Lilith and the girl moves to her house. Sooner Emily learns that Lilith
is not as innocent as she seems to be.

"Case 39" is a scary horror film with great screenplay and
performances. The bleak story begins in the direction of a drama, and
out of the blue shifts to a suspenseful psychological horror film as
has some common aspects with "Orphan". The end is not bad with the
victory of the good, but this film deserved a better and darker ending.
My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Caso 39" ("Case 39")
<|_=00=_|>
After having been let down by many films recently this, and then newly
released Triangle, have been a welcome release.

Everything in Case 39 is at least very good. Renne Zellweger is
excellent as the empathic, Emily Jenkins. Really perfectly cast for the
role and gives the film an underlying security, which for me at least,
was needed. The young actress,Jodelle Ferland, is generally really good
and at times, show stealing. She is in fact superb as the rather
troubled youngster.. The chemistry between the two leads is what
compliments what is a rather twisted but truly fantastic story.

The story paces itself perfectly and draws you into its sphere of
horror with a soft hand and kicks you out with a firm smack at the end.
The only sad thing is a lack of replay value. I just wish i could go
back and watch it for the first time all over again..

Chilling and enchanting horror film, a must see
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie we have seen before just written in different ways. A
girl is suspected of being abused and the case worker takes a very
personal interest in her. When the parents are removed from the
situation, the girl begs for the love of the social worker, which she
gets. Renee Zellweger does a decent job in this movie. I would not call
it a horror movie. It is suspenseful, but nothing I thought was overly
horrific. The little girl does a brilliant job playing the victim.
Predictable, the social worker takes this child into her home pending
placement elsewhere and finds that this little girl is not quite what
she seems. She seeks out different methods to deal with the problem,
but it ultimately ends up just like I thought it would. Not the worst
movie ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
When I watch a movie my main scale is: Did this movie entertain me? And
"Case 39" definitely did. I am not really a fan of creepy movies, but I
thought that the cast was good, so gave it a chance and I am glad that
I did it. The script is well done, although it is not to difficult to
imagine what will happen next. Yes you can predict stuff that happens,
but I did not. I was involved in the story, was curious and could just
enjoy the creepy atmosphere and the development of the two main
characters, Lilli and Emily. The dialogs were fine, the acting
believable. It is well crafted and for me, as I have mentioned before,
great entertainment and I have enjoyed every minute. Well done, that is
how movies should be done.
<|_=00=_|>
Case 39 (2009)

The clever plot isn't quite clever enough to keep you going through the
whole movie, but almost. And both Renee Zellwegger as the passionate
and trapped social worker and Jodelle Ferland as the adorable but
mysterious child are quite amazing. Both are actors at the best of
their powers, Zellwegger limited only by the role and the writing,
which is very good but not quite flexible enough to let her show as
many of those perplexed and touching nuances she is so good at (seen
equally in "Bridget Jones's Diary" and "Nurse Betty"). But it's
possible Ferland has the role of her life here. She's not only playing
a precocious child, but is clearly a precocious young actress, bright,
expressive, surprising, and not merely cute. By the way she was fifteen
when it was filmed, even though she looks and acts, in most ways, like
she's ten.

You can't ignore the plot, of course, since this is a plot driven movie
saved by two great actresses, not the other way around. And the story
is a little bit of a formula with a twist. The twist is good, but it is
singular. Eventually we are carried from a personal and social drama
with some evil people to a supernatural drama. It's here where things
get scariest, but also where things wobble slightly in terms of
believability or logic, if logic has any place here. For example, once
the antagonist is shown to have really limitless powers of some kind
(possibly imaginary), why does this person not have the power to just
kill someone out and out? There is dangled the idea that this bad force
depends on fear to proceed, but this isn't developed clearly, or maybe
you have to see it twice to get.

On the other hand, if you just go with the flow, it's really
increasingly scary. There are some scenes, like the woman in the
hospital room that turns into a kind of large oven, that are chilling
and really well done. Certainly Zellwegger's character is able to find
the outlines of logic as she tries to survive by outsmarting the
situation, and we're on her side. Eventually it comes to a dramatic
climax, and it's pretty exciting. A sleeper, for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie, as a horror movie, delivers what it promises, which is
scaring people. It is however not without its flaws.

As an above reviewer already stated Renee Zellweger is not a great
actress for these types of movies, but it's not something that should
bother you during the duration of the movie.

Another flaw is the use of what I tend to call gratuitous scares. What
do I mean by that you may ask. These are scares that are provoked by
suddenly letting a barking dog jump against a window when the main
character is standing there or by letting a coworker pop up next to the
protagonist when she's sitting down. However effective they may be,
they are not scares relevant to the story and they tend to irritate me
because they take the focus of the main story, mostly because the main
story has little volume.

This is lucky not the case here. The acting of the "evil" by the little
girl is very well done. If I had a child before me like that, I'm sure
I wouldn't be too comfortable by him/her.

***SPOILER*** For the rest part the story is good enough to keep you
going although I would have preferred a non Hollywoodian ending because
that would have been more "realistic" if the girl was really possessed
by an ancient demon. ***SPOILER***

But all in all a good movie to spend your evening on.
