
The film is all about mood. If you are not in it, you will not like the
movie. My recommendation is to watch it at night, in bed, with no
worries on your mind or things to do. It is not something really great,
but it soothes the soul like one of those old road books.

The story itself is more of a three parter, each section detailing a
mindset and the situations that define it. You see the hopeless
romantic, the one person who let the other inside instead of just
sticking to the outside, and for whom losing the other is worst than
death; then there is the rebellious daughter that loves and hates her
father until it's to late to do anything either way; and of course, the
story of Nora Joneses and Jude Law's characters.

Bottom line: lay comfy in your bed and listen to the slow rhythms of
the music while digesting the human nature presented in the film. In
the end it is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film of contrasts. A good story let down by poor dialogue;
some great acting as well as some mediocre and good direction marred by
irritating and indiscriminate "motion blur" filming.

The film has the elements and sometimes the feel of a charming love
story, a modern-day fairy tale. The gentleness and innocence of the two
main characters is in sharp contrast to the world inhabited by the
secondary characters, where addiction to alcohol, gambling, desperation
and suicide are the order of the day.

Jude Law as Jeremy seems to have lost the plot. His half-hearted
attempts at a Manchester accent are woeful. Why bother with the accent
anyway? He is a coffee shop owner in NY, and his origins have no
bearing whatsoever on the storyline. However, his natural charisma and
his gentle demeanour do suit the role, and he pairs well with Norah
Jones as Elizabeth.

As for the flaws; is there ever total silence outside in the street in
NY at night? And would customers really give their house keys to the
person behind the counter in a coffee shop, to be kept in a glass jar?
And would customers ever be known not by name, but by what they eat?
And is there anyone in Manchester actually called Jeremy? As for Norah
Jones, although she is on screen for most of the film, she does not
have a lot to do or say  which is just as well really. She spends most
of her time watching in silent, doe-eyed admiration, as she is given a
master class in acting by the "real" actors.

The *real" actors here are David Strathairn and Rachel Weisz.
Strathairn gives a memorable, finely crafted performance as Arnie, who
is a cop by day and an alcoholic barfly by night. Rachel Weisz as Sue
Lynne his beautiful, wild, estranged wife makes full use of her short
time on screen to create a wayward, tumultuous character at once
sensuous, and sensitive. Between them they steal the show.

But gripes aside, the director does manage to create an appealing, if
flawed, film. It's a mixed bag. It's good in parts.
<|_=00=_|>
An inebriating realistic fantasy by Wong Kar Wai one of the greatest
aesthetic visionaries modern films have to offer. This time is in
English and without reaching the pinnacle that his "In The Mood For
Love" reached, it's still a mesmerizing romantic road in search of
love, hope and an identity that can be recognized. Norah Jones leads
the way as someone startled by her own existence. Her kiss with Jude
Law must be considered one of the most romantic, erotic and pure kisses
I've ever seen. It seals the journey in an unforgettable way. Rachel
Weitz makes a star entrance that reminded me of Kathleen Turner's in
"Body Heat" a walking, full body entrance. Natalie Portman confirms
that she's a spectacular actress and a riveting presence on the screen.
Their Blueberry Nights became mine and with its wonderful look and
score this a film I crave to see again.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from the Cannes film festival and I have to say that
the negative reviews for this film are spot on. I think Kar Wai Wong is
a fine director but he bit off more than he can chew with this film.
The screenplay does not feel natural and while I love Nora Jones as a
singer, she's not an actress and it's painfully obvious when you see
this film. The best performances in the movie belong to the more
deserving supporting actors in the film, mainly Rachel Weisz, David
Strathairn and Natalie Portman who bring more to the film in acting
than it deserves. The film has two major problems going for it, one is
the script which does have one decent segment involving a cop (David
Strathairn) and his wife (Rachel Weisz) but that's really a testament
on how good both Weisz and Strathairn are as actors because they draw
you into their character's lives and makes you feel for them but
unfortunately the script derail their efforts in bringing more to their
roles. Natalie Portman is great as well but she has even less of a
story to work with and not a very convincing one at that. Poor Nora
Jones is pretty but basically vapid in her role. She tries but lacks
the presence to pull the character off. She's supposed to be the
viewer's anchor but just ends up more of a piece of scenery than a
character.

All and All a noble yet pretty bad effort by Kar Wai Wong
<|_=00=_|>
Wong Kar Wai, the Hong Kong auteur, has made his first movie all in
English and set in the USA--and built around Grammy Award singer Norah
Jones. More coherent than many of Wong's efforts, it's been accused of
being a "trifle"--or is it just that the plot seems silly now that it's
all clear and in English? Like all Wong's work, this is a film that's
romantic, sad, and gorgeous to look at from first to last and full of
strong, catchy pop-blues-country music (Ry Couder did the score). The
beautiful Ms. Jones's character, variously known as Elizabeth, Lizzie,
Beth, or Betty, turns up at a New York café run by Jeremy (Jude Law), a
guy from Manchester, England, drenched in love-longing because her man
has dumped her for somebody else. Jeremy has a jar full of keys from
patrons, each with a story, and Lizzie gives him hers, hoping her
boyfriend will pick them up again. Jeremy has his own lost love, Katya
(Cat Power); she'll turn up later on just to say goodbye. Jeremy's keys
stand for doors he himself doesn't want to close. 

Though Lizzie's boyfriend never turns up, Jeremy and Lizzie begin to
have late night chats and sugar orgies, she eating a piece of blueberry
pie with ice cream--picking blueberry because that's the pie that's
always left over at the end of the day.

There's a fight in the café, and Jeremy plays around with a
surveillance camera, which he seems to use as a kind of diary. Soon he
will be alone, and Lissie will be away.

This time instead of improvising as in the past, which among other
things contributed to his last film, 2046, a kind of summation of his
Chinese themes and characters, taking five years to finish, Wong made
up his story, with Norah in mind, and then had it turned into a
finished screenplay (subject to plenty of revisions, of course) by
crime novelist Lawrence Block. This one had a low budget and took just
a couple of months to make. Shooting time, that is. It really took a
year to do the editing, but Wong had that finished, to everyone's
surprise, just in time for My Blueberry NIghts to be shown as the
opener at Cannes last year.

Like Wong's other films, this one encapsulates several different
stories. The second one comes when Lizzie decides to "cross the street"
to revisit Jeremy by the "longest way possible," which turns out to be
a trip to Memphis and Nevada and points in between, thousands of miles
and nearly a year--a time of self-discovery, no doubt (though she
doesn't observably change), and a period to avoid the inevitable
romance with Jeremy. Landing in Memphis Lizzie works at two jobs,
saving up money to buy a car. At a bar she encounters the drama of the
drunken cop Arnie Copeland (David Strathairn) and his estranged wife,
Sue Lynne (Rachel Weisz). Both are fine, acting their heads off in
scenes heady with barroom dysfunction. For once, an on-screen drunk
admits to going to Alcoholics Anonymous--and collecting a beginner's
chip over and over and over. He throws the chips on the bar and they
make a satisfying chink. But Arnie comes to a bad end, though Sue
Lynne, despite rejecting him, keeps his tab open as she lights out for
the territory. Through all of this Lizzie constantly sends Jeremy a
stream of postcards that are a kind of intimate diary, and he
desperately tries to track her down by phone and letter, without
success.

Every young filmmaker dreams of making a road movie, Wong Kar Wai has
said. Though he's now fifty, this is a kind of new beginning, or felt
like one to him. But, he said, this movie isn't really a road movie;
it's a vacation. And it's not about a journey, but about distance.
Maybe the trip across the street for Lizzie is all a dream--one by Sam
Shepherd, working with David Lynch. Sue Lynne gives Lizzie a generous
donation for being Arnie's barmaid too, and she lights out for Nevada.
There she's working at a gambling dive where she meets a young woman
named Leslie (Nathalie Portman) who's a pro, and they wind up leaving
town together. Eventually, Lizzie ends up back at Jeremy's café, and
he's waiting for her.

Coming after As Tears Go By, Days of Being Wild, Chungking Express,
Ashes of Time, Fallen Angels, Happy Together, In the Mood For Love, and
2046, Wong's excursion into America is completely consistent and
logical. Those who seem disappointed, may miss the ellipses and madcap
improv of the earlier films, and may have failed to notice that they
were full of pop novel gimmicks and romantic cuteness. Wong's
sentimentality passes muster because of cryptic story lines, poetic
voice-overs, hypnotic uses of music, and adventurous camera
work--mostly by Christopher Doyle, here replaced by the half-French and
wholly brilliant Darius Khondji --made infinitely rich by complex
editing. My Blueberry Nights is full of criss-cross angles, fast
overlaps, closeups so shallow atmospheric Americana may go unnoticed,
till a lovely panorama flits by. Color is typically warm and dense. The
effect is to make every frame a pleasure.

Reciting Wong Kar Wai's list of features brings home how he
single-handedly made the Eighties and Nineties an exciting cinematic
time, from the first days when you had to go to a theater on the edge
of Chinatown, and then you watched badly subtitled Hong Kong prints
found in esoteric video shops, to the time when Tarantino's Miramax
label, Rolling Thunder, distributed Chungking Express in a good print
with clear titles and the secret was out.

Maybe Wong never did anything better than Days of Being Wild, the first
film in which he became truly himself. But what does it matter? The
quintessential stylist, he cannot make a film that doesn't give rich
aesthetic pleasure.

US opening date April 18, 2008.
<|_=00=_|>
A young woman, getting over a relationship, travels across America to
earn money and see the country.

I found this to be hypnotic, soothing experience, much like In The Mood
For Love. It really does set up an atmosphere that makes you feel like
you're really there. I think it's a pretty hollow film, which has
turned a lot of people off, but i think there's enough there on the
surface. I think the film looked great - the colors and charming set
design. Jones was pretty decent, Kar Wai wisely filling the film with
interesting characters/actors so she doesn't have to carry the whole
film. Natalie Portman seems a little miscast (she looks barely a day
over 20 so i don't know why she plays characters out of her depth), but
i found Strathairn and Rachel Weisz heartbreaking and Law hasn't been
so appealing in years. A nice surprise considering my low expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a typical Kar Wai Wong film.Even some of the music is borrowed
from In the mood for love.I have long been a Kar Wai Wong film fan.This
is his first English language film.But the Kar Wai Wong style is still
there. This movie seems to have met before.The Rachel Weisz part make
me think of Texas,Paris the moment I heard the monologue.The idea
crossing the America is not fresh either.As to Norah Jones,her role is
just like Amélie.But there's something sweet in all these.Unlike Amélie
who tries to help others,Elizabeth is merely a witness to all those
things,aiming at finding a way to say goodbye to her failure in
love.When she finally think herself prepared to say goodbye,the person
who broke her heart is not there any more,and it's time to start a new
relationship with Jude Law If you want to see something serious,I'm
sorry,you may be disappointed.But if you just enjoy the atmosphere in a
romantic movie,you will be satisfied.But it doesn't mean that it's a
popcorn movie.Apart from the typical Kar Wai Wong style
scenes,music,there's something to think over.You will think of
something,think of your own love story in this story. The performances
are wonderful.Rachel Weisz makes you into the mood the moment she walks
into the bar.David Strathairn is wonderful.Natalie Portman makes you
know that she is a real actress with great talent(maybe someone will be
uncomfortable to her changes).Jude Law and Norah Jones together gives
you a sense of warm,and they are really suitable in the roles of bar
assistant or boss.Kar Wai Wong makes Faye Wong transform from an
excellent singer to an excellent performer.Norah Jones's music is
wonderful, and her performance is surprising to me,succeed in a good
listener and witness The music,cinematography,etc are typical Kar Wai
Wong style.Kar Wai Wong loves to put jazz in his movie,and Jones's
vocal makes you exciting at the beginning of the movie.everything is
magnified,in order to show the beauty hiding in the fine points.The
light is a story teller in this movie,maybe weired but fascinating.Kar
Wai Wong borrowed a piece of music from The Motorcycle
Diaries,indicating that Elizabeth has managed to get rid of the failure
in love. It may not be the best Kar Wai Wong movie,but it's
enjoyable,and it's as sweet as blueberry pies,you will find it hard to
resist
<|_=00=_|>
This film is brilliant. So subtle and well crafted is the storytelling.
The cast is perfect. If you like Norah Jones and her music you will
absolutely love this movie. It is about human emotion, growth,
hurt,longing,finding inner peace. Every emotion she brings to her songs
Norah Jones and the rest of the cast bring to this movie. Every
character represents another "Life Lesson" that Elizabeth (Norah Jones
character) needs to meet to bring her to the peace she needs to find.
Or, at least, an understanding of who she is that she can be happy
with. Which makes the ending such a wonderful beginning.

Jude Law is his usual charming English embracing persona. Rachel Weisz
and Natalie Portman achieve so much with such small supporting roles.
David Strathairn is perfectly cast and is just an incredible actor. The
director did an incredible job of pacing the film to let each moment of
reflection absorb into the audience. The photography was just as
exquisite in its detail and subtle importance of meaning. 

Where this film really succeeds is in not falling into the Hollywood
pitfalls of so many indie movies where the the film becomes brooding or
cynical. Throughout her journey Elizabeth finds herself; her best self.
Like her music, you will sometimes feel the melancholia she feels,
sometimes feel the hope and desire, the longing for love or the want of
confidence in one's self. But after all the reflections, in the end you
will be happy with the experience. The only thing missing from this
film was a great Van Morrison song like "in the Midnight" or "Someone
like you" to add to the atmosphere. I don't think i have seen any of
Kar Wai Wong's {the director} films but I look forward to seeing them
all now. Start to finish, this movie is brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a smart sweet movie. Very nicely done with some beautiful
scenes! Majestic pictures really. And it had a nice story and some good
characters with great performances specially by Rachel Weisz and
Strathairn! It had good witty dialogs and had some funny moments. It's
one of those movies that has everything to be good. Never Amazing,
never something out of this world, but good! Makes you feel good after
wards! But because of the editing and the great shots, this movie could
have been far better than the average sweet smart movie.

The main reason why it's just good is because of the lead actress which
was Norah Jones. And I'm very sorry to say she didn't convince me at
all. It even became annoying at some points! And since she is narrating
some bits and appearing in most of the movie.. it kinda ruined it a bit
for me. It's really hard to comprehend why she was given the part. But
if you can forget about her acting.. I think the movie is really good.
<|_=00=_|>
In New York, Elizabeth (Norah Jones) has a broken heart when her
boyfriend leaves her without saying goodbye. She stops by the diner of
Jeremy (Jude Law) seeking out her lover, leaves his keys with Jeremy
and ends the night having a conversation with him and eating a thrown
away piece of blueberry pie. She arrives in the place for the next late
nights and they become close, with Lizzy eating a piece of blueberry
pie, until the day she drinks too much, has a blackout and is kissed by
Jeremy. On the next day, she takes a bus to Memphis, Tennessee, and
gets two jobs, working as waitress in the morning in a diner and as a
bartender during the night in a bar and saving money to buy a car.
Lizzy sends postcards to Jeremy without her address and she befriends
Officer Arnie Copeland (David Strathairn), who spends the nights
drinking missing his wife Sue Lynne (Rachel Weisz) that left him. Later
she moves to Ely, Nevada, workings as waitress in a casino, where she
meets the gambler Leslie (Natalie Portman). When Leslie loses a poker
game, they travel together to Las Vegas to visit Leslie's father. Then
she return to New York, where she meets Jeremy again.

This classy and melancholic romance has a sweet story, great direction
and performances, wonderful music score and a stunning cinematography.
I was not familiarized with the wonderful voice of Norah Jones and her
debut as actress is magnificent, showing a perfect chemistry with Jude
Law. The excellent David Strathairn and Rachel Weisz have awesome
performances in very dramatic roles, and the magnificent Natalie
Portman has a different appearance with her vulgar character. My vote
is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Um Beijo Roubado" ("A Stolen Kiss")
