
Did you know a horror franchise drowned a day before this week? The
Producer and Directer weren't paying any attention... They were
counting their money while that cult icon drowned. It's name was Friday
the 13th. I watching the night it happened. Losing my temper... there.
I was a fan. Friday the 13th should have been awesome. Every minute! It
was... It wasn't a very good remake. We can give up now... fans.

You see Friday the 13th was my favorite movie... and today it was
raped.

I mistakingly had high expectations of this movie. Of course I was
bothered by the fact that Marcus Nispel, who did such a smash up job on
Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake, was directing. In fact besides the fact
that Jason wore a hockey mask, had an affinity for machetes and his
mother was in it for five seconds. It was almost impossible to
differentiate between the two movies. Lots of slack jawed yokels and
shaky camera action in the dark, just like Chainsaw. Poor story telling
with numerous loose ends, just like Chainsaw. Terrible adaptation, just
like Chainsaw.

Okay, maybe I'm being a little too hard on the movie. The first few
minutes of the movie were incredible. Of coarse there' no rhyme or
reason to Jason's return from the grave, but they never had on in the
original either. The elements that they took from the first four movies
were there, and yes I said 'Four' movies. There were elements from the
Final Chapter despite what the propaganda says. The acting wasn't
terrible. Yoo's character was probably the funniest character to ever
be in a Friday the 13th to date. The under the dock kill was so classic
that it felt like it belonged and it was good to see Jason in his old
sack mask again.

Many key elements were there, but only for a second or two. Mrs.
Voorhees head wasn't really elaborated on and wouldn't be caught as
significant to anyone who hadn't seen the original movies. Despite all
the hype about how Jason gets his hockey mask in this movie, it was a
big let down and just seemed a little too convenient. The locals in the
town were basically rejects from the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. In fact
the scenery may have appeared New Englandish... but the locals just
screamed, "I'm from Texas!" 

Jason Voorhees. How could they screw up a character like Jason
Voorhees? Give these folks a hand though. They did it. I started to
realize that Jason wasn't quite himself around the sleeping bag death
scene. First and foremost Jason is a killer, not a sadistic torturer.
Sure he's done some pretty brutal things to his victims, but roasting a
person alive, just isn't his style. It's too much set up for Jason
honestly. Additionally, if Jason has you on the ground with a machete
coming down at you, you are DEAD. He doesn't lock you in his basement
and keep you alive for months because you're a pretty girl who looks
like his mother. Jason kills. And he especially kills if you
impersonate his mother. 

The end... in more ways than one. When I watched the ending of this
movie I literally had the feeling that I was ripped off. The pay off
with the wood chipper wasn't even utilized here. And then for some
reason the survivor(s), another thing that was lame, decided to dump
his body in the lake. This means they had to actively decide it was a
good idea to get rid of the evidence that they were not the manics that
killed a bunch of people, but it also means that they had to take Jason
out of the chipper, take the chain off his neck, remove his mask, and
carry him all the way out to the dock. And if Jason was playing possum
the entire time, why didn't he just kill them when he still had access
to a wood chipper and a barn full of tools? 

In fact this movie raised nothing but questions. Who killed Mrs.
Voorhees? What ever happened to her? Why did Jason miraculously come
back from the dead? Why was his body still intact after all those years
in the lake? Why does Jason wear a mask? How did he keep the rats from
eating his mother's head? Why did the local cops not bother
investigating anything? How did Jason learn to hook up electricity to
his camp? Why didn't the power company notice nobody's paying the
electric bill for an abandoned summer camp? Why would Jason keep some
girl chained up in his basement? Why do all the locals of Crystal Lake
appear to have come from Texas? Why did they bother doing makeup for
Jason when they show his face for maybe two frames of the whole movie?
Why does Jason pop out of the lake at the end with his mask on? What
were they thinking? Why did I see this miserable attempt to remake a
great movie? Why am I wasting more time on a bad review? Why are you
still reading?

All in all a terrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect much of anything other than a few memorable kills and
maybe a cheap jump scare here and there. This pathetic excuse for a
movie couldn't even deliver that much. For starters, I personally can't
stand how recent horror movies are shot. Everything has the same dark,
muddy and flat-looking quality, with no real clarity of picture and
irritating shakycam going into overdrive during 90 percent of the
horror/action scenes because far too many directors today aren't
talented enough to stage an effective horror or action scene without
it. The gore was often even hard to make out because of the
camera-work, too, which renders something like this almost completely
pointless. And while the 1980s Friday films aren't what I'd call genre
classics, you could at least clearly make out the gory scenes instead
of getting a split flash of some CGI effect while the cameraman goes
into a seizure. Bah-humbug, I know. But I swear I really did try my
best to like this one. Honest!

Defenders of this latest bargain basement remake will say things
like...

"It's not supposed to have a storyline or plot!" or "The acting is
supposed to be bad!" or "The dialogue is supposed to be stupid!" or
"The characters are supposed to be unbearably obnoxious and annoying!"
or "It's not supposed to be scary!" Well OK then. I'd now like to take
the opportunity to congratulate Mr. Nispel for making an unscary,
ugly-looking, suspense-free movie with bad acting, terrible dialogue,
forgettable kills and annoying characters. Way to go Marcus!

What other "goodies" do we get here? Let's see...

For some reason, the film opens with all the credits but waits until
about twenty minutes in to reveal the TITLE. 

Half of the dialogue seems to consist of either the "f" word or "dude."
And what's up with every person talking to themselves? Every time a
person was alone they were having a conversation. With whom? I have no
clue. When a floorboard creaks it's not really necessary to have
someone say "What was that? I better go upstairs and see what that is!"
Or, in Friday remake terms it's more like... "What tha @#!* was that
@#!* ? Dayum I need to go up doz @#!*' stairs to investigate me some
@#!*!" The characters are all pretty awful - a bunch of annoying, smug,
self-satisfied, foul-mouthed twits who seem like they need to
immediately be committed to a rehab program. Naturally all the white
characters get to pair off and have sex, while no one seems the least
bit interested in the one black and one Asian character. Since the
black guy can't get laid he's reduced to pleasuring himself while
listening to whitey going at it upstairs. At least three different male
victims said "What the @#!*?" when they were confronted with Jason. The
black guy had a slight variation though since he's black. Seriously,
whoever wrote this should be embarrassed.

The cast was also bad. Travis Van Winkle should never act again. What
is the appeal of this guy anyway? He can't act for squat and resembles
Vincent from the Beauty and the Beast TV series. And Jared Padalecki
(though one of the better actors here) would probably look better
without the Farrah Fawcett hairdo. I had a very difficult time telling
the actresses they hired apart. When blonde #1 was killed and they cut
back to the cabin to blonde #2 I was like "I thought she was already
dead?" And then there's a missing sister, who I kept confusing with the
rich jock's girlfriend toward the end. If you can hire a black and an
Asian actor to help diffuse all the shaggy-haired white boys, then why
can't you hire an attractive black or Asian actress? Preferrably one
who isn't sporting a set of distracting and unnatural-looking silicone
cans like several actresses in this film. No wonder Willa Ford couldn't
keep herself under water for long! Note to parents: If your daughter
begs you for a set of DD bolt-on's for her 18th birthday, get her a
Prada handbag instead. She'll thank you later. 

The film is full of extremely stupid moments and scenes. Getting hit
directly in the head by a speedboat going about 50 miles per hour will
only result in a tiny little boo-boo. And the extensive lair of
underground catacombs under Jason's house? Did Jason dig all that out
or is it some sewer system in the middle of the woods? Maybe a former
coal mine... with an escape hatch through an overturned school bus?
Whaaaaaaa? Then we have Jason keeping a hostage. Well, the Jason I like
don't play like that. Are they trying to now "humanize" him like Rob
Zombie did with Michael Myers in his equally wretched "remake" of
HALLOWEEN? Urghhh...

It all leads up to an ending that fails just as badly as the rest of
the movie. The original has that legendary moment that made people jump
from their seats while the people who made this botched that
opportunity because of a completely awful editing cut. So sad to say,
this was sloppy, irritating and pretty much just plain boring. It could
have been fun. It's not. JASON GOES TO HELL and JASON X were even
better than this!
<|_=00=_|>
"Jason was my son, and today is his birthdayÂ…" Twelve birthdays have
passed for the masked killer Jason Voorhees since the series was born
thirty years ago back in the golden age of slasher films. Of the slew
of terms studios use to avoid the word 'remake' I suppose the best term
to describe the latest 13th film would be rejuvenation. The series
started its downward spiral after part IV and while director Marcus
Nipsel's doesn't wipe the slate clean, he ads enough pizazz to make it
the best of the series in nearly two decades.

To give credit where it is due, this film does a number of things with
the Jason character that are certainly a relief. Nipsel has opted to do
away with the supernatural element and the super-zombie- Jason angle as
well as giving Jason some spunk and cunning that he left with him at
the bottom of Crystal Lake before part VI. Along with discarding these
cumbersome characteristics, Jason is graced with a hunter/gatherer
mentality that has him setting snares, traps and siphoning gasoline
from locals. This is what the character should be; a loner forced to
fend for himself in the forest; disturbed and deadly.

From the get go I thought this movie was a disaster. Never before had I
seen poorer character development or less tense of a build- up. But
don't leave the theatre so soon, as the opening act is graced with a
nifty twist that you will not see coming. The calibre of the acting has
never been a prominent staple of the Friday films, but this latest
offering certainly comes closest to what could be considered as such.
The dialogue is acceptable, only occasionally displaying the wince
factor, and the leads are likable enough that you care just enough that
you don't wish for a machete to the skull.

Years have passed since young Jason drowned at Camp Crystal lake, and
the rein of Pamela Voorhees (Nana Visitor in a cameo) has been cut
shortÂ…pun intended. Returning to the town of terror, much to the
chagrin of the sheriff is Clay Miller (Jared Padalecki) who longs to
find his sister (Amanda Righetti) who disappeared along with her
friends a month prior. Clay's journey intertwines with a group of
friends venturing to a cabin for a weekend of booze, boobs and bongs
including Jenna (Danielle Panabaker), the cabins snooty owner, Trent
(Travis Van Winkle) the resident stoner, Chewie (Not to be confused
with Chewbacca, Aaron Yoo) among others. Their story lines are forced
closer together still as people go missing, and soon the terrifying
force from the nearby abandoned camp is revealed. 

Aside from the Jason overhaul, who can run, jump and kill with the best
of them, I enjoyed how the director managed to make the characters do
stupid things, without making the characters themselves seem equally
idiotic. The way the story unfolds, it is only the frantic ramblings of
a few characters that claim a threat, which allows the others to wander
to their bloody demises. There are still all the trademark Friday
elements; a lot of booze, a lot of pot and a lot of nudity (which is
overdone at times) When Jason first rears his ugly head, he has not yet
donned his hockey mask, and I was interested to see if they could have
him happen across it in an uncontrived manner; I was pleased if not
blown away. 

Fans of the series should at least be content with the latest offering,
but really there is nothing new enough to become ecstatic about. One
death aside, it is predictable, and the gore and deaths are less
inventive then the early films. There are moments of tension to be
certain, and the climax, like all Friday films, does not fail to
disappoint. Disposable, but nothing special, when Jason does return I
am hoping for a full overhaul of the horror icon that will not be as
unlucky as its title implies.

6.5 / 10.0

Read all my reviews at: http://www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
THe Friday the 13th films have never been what you would call good
movies. For me they have always been guilty pleasures, but not
something I would recommend to fans not into gory movies where there
are occasional scares but no real suspense built up. After seeing this
latest entry, which is really a remake of the first four films into
one, I can't really say its bad. Horror movie fans who love creative
killings will love it, but if you're not a horror movie fan of the
slasher genre, then I really can't tell you to see this movie. However
if this is your type of thing, go see it.

Now on with the plot, which I really won't go into detail about because
we already know what it's about. It starts off with a pitiful prelude
that goes back to 1980 and found me rolling my eyes, but afterward it
gets better. Young adults go camping, young adults die in nasty ways.
THe one wrinkle added to the story is that one of the character's
(Jared Padelecki from Supernatural on the WB) is brought into the story
because he is looking for his sister. THis sister was involved with the
first group of victims, and now there is this second group who know of
nothing that has happened to the other group because it has been about
six weeks since the first group went missing. You all know what happens
next, so I won't say anything more.

Most of the cast was competent, better then many of the ones from the
earlier films. THere were a few who were annoying, but that is part of
the Friday The 13th scenario. I like the new Jason because he is much
more active in the role, much like the Jason from the 2nd and 3rd
entries back in the early to mid 80s.

I will give the movie a solid 7 out of 10. It went out and did what it
was supposed to, but if you are more into the suspenseful horror films,
and not hack and slash with a few jump scares, then Friday the 13th
2009 is not for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Friday the 13th has an incredibly powerful first 15-20 minutes. It
really kicks off with a bang. Jason is back better than ever. Then
something goes fractionally wrong and we fall back into old territory.
Everything becomes a bit too familiar. Still, it does better than most
horror films in the sense that it really doesn't become too tedious
until the last 10 minutes or so.

The main characters are strong in their performance without being
memorable. The cameos are the real scene stealers including a gas
station attendant and a man named Donnie. A lot of the jokes from all
concerned really hit the mark though and are a nice touch to the film.

The Friday the 13th remake is what it is and at the end of the day
probably all that could realistically have been hoped for. It won't
decrease the seemingly ever growing hate of remakes, but it certainly
won't add to it either and that in itself is an achievement.
<|_=00=_|>
(Slight spoilers, though nothing major. Hell, the whole rotten movie is
a "spoiler")

Upon viewing the opening third of this movie, I swear I thought the
film had been written by Peter and Bobby Farrelly (the talentless
brothers behind such pieces of dung such as THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT
MARY, and ME, MYSELF, AND IRENE) because the film assaulted the
audience with embarrassingly crude, off-color, profanity-ridden
dialogue.

The film also stoops to presenting distressingly stereotypical
characters, including blatantly adding the token black guy and the
token Asian guy and then tries to poke fun at it! ("Just because I'm
black, that mean I can't listen to Green Day?") The film didn't get any
better from there.

As a longtime, die-hard Friday fan, I cringed as I watched the
filmmakers completely destroy the myth and character of Jason Voorhees
by turning him into a psycho, inbred redneck -- directly out of the
Texas CHAINSAW series (directed by an individual who directed the
crappy remake of that, and using actors from that remake too!). Absurd
was the plot point of Jason holding the girl hostage (for reasons that
were never truly made clear)-- since when has Jason EVER done anything
like that? Oh right, we're making him into Leatherface now.

The lighting was awful, the kills were mostly too fast and too dark to
be enjoyed, Derek Mears was OK but unremarkable as Jason. I'll credit
him for doing the best with the sickeningly bad material he had to work
with.

Worst of all, the film tries to have it both ways -- it tries to create
a scary Jason, but makes the characters so repugnantly unappealing that
the audience is rooting for Jason. You can't have your cake and eat it
too: either have a scary Jason that we're rooting against because he's
the villain, or portray him as the (anti)hero who's there to wipe out
teenage scum. Not both.

A couple good touches, such as the topless skiing scene (even though
that didn't show off what it could've) and the ax kill (now THAT was
pure Jason) can even begin to save this pile of sludge. But I'm sure
we'll have another awful remake (or sequel to a remake), since this
crap hit it big at the box office.

Grade Z tripe.
<|_=00=_|>
It's rare these days I enter a movie theater to see a horror film and
leave anything short of sorely disappointed but today differed from
recent past experiences. I've been a fan of the original Friday The
13th for many years now and was of course skeptical of this "remake"
but decided to give it a shot nonetheless. I'm a fan of horror movies -
this includes good, bad, and indifferent so I figured why not? Being
that Friday The 13th was one of my favorites, I didn't expect much. 

From start to finish the film keeps you on the edge of your seat. It
isn't so much the suspense but instead, the moments you know are coming
just not when or how they'll be approached exactly. It takes quite a
bit to frighten me and I counted a good 2 or 3 times I actually jumped
throughout the film. There's plenty of gore for the gore lovers, plenty
of sexual explicitness for the perverts, and plenty of drugs for the
stoners just like an old fashioned horror movie should contain.

This film is not a remake but rather a revision and one I came to
appreciate much within the first 10 minutes. The action begins almost
immediately and builds steadily throughout the hour and thirty five
minutes it lasts, right up until the very last shot. I say to those of
you who bash this or claim it's a "rip off" or a "poor remake" consider
this - It's neither. It is instead a different look at our old pal
Jason and one that can be appreciated greatly if given the opportunity.
Don't shun the film simply because it bares the title of an old
favorite of yours and mine... 

Look at it as a modern take on an old time classic with new characters
(who admittedly are annoying and overly obnoxious at times just as most
teenagers/twenty-somethings in films, especially of the horror genre,
usually are) and an (almost) entirely different plot. This movie wasn't
made to be compared to the original. It wasn't trying to replace what
it was to begin with and people need to keep this in mind before going
to see it. Do not enter a theater with expectations, especially not
high ones. Whenever you do, you find yourself let down at your own
expense, not the expense of the film you're seeing or your experience
seeing it.

With this in mind, I highly recommend checking this one out. You won't
be disappointed if you're seeing it in the right mind set and that is a
very open minded one.
<|_=00=_|>
Tttch, ttch, ttch, ha, ha, haÂ… Jason Vorhees is back ttch ttch ttch ha
ha ha, OK, I'll stop doing that. Well, back in the glorious decade that
was known as the 1980's came out a series of slasher films, two of
which have stood the test of time and given us Freddy Krueger and Jason
Vorhees. The new millennium brought us Freddy vs. Jason, awesome movie,
I recommend it, but we still needed a re-boot of the iconic monsters.
So we have Friday the 13th, what baffles me is why the title is same of
the 1980 film that was a great slumber party movie. This could have
been a lot more better if it had worked as a sequel rather than a
re-make. Now, don't get me wrong, I felt that this was actually a fun
horror movie, the fans get what they want with the blood, gore and sex.
But Jason seemed a little off to me, I think he went to rehab or
something for his killing addiction, don't know if it was the actor or
the director's vision, but this could have been a little bit better.

On June 13, 1980, a young Jason Voorhees witnesses his mother being
beheaded by a camp counselor who was trying to escape Mrs. Voorhees's
murderous rampage around Camp Crystal Lake. 30 years later, a group of
vacationing friends arrive at Crystal Lake on a camping trip. As Mike
and Whitney explore the abandoned Crystal Lake camp, Jason begins to
kill the rest of the group one-by-one. Jason also kills four of the
friends, but instead of doing the same to Whitney he decides to kidnap
her because she resembles his mother. Six weeks later, Trent, along
with his girlfriend Jenna, and their friends Chewie, Chelsea, Nolan,
Bree and Lawrence arrive at Trent's summer cabin, which sits on Crystal
Lake, unaware of the events that occurred a few weeks prior. Also in
town is Clay, who has come to Crystal Lake searching for his sister
Whitney. Clay eventually makes his way to Trent's cabin, where Jenna
agrees to help him look for his sister on the other side of the lake,
much to Trent's dismay who's jealous of Clay. As Clay and Jenna search
for clues to Whitney's disappearance, Jason does what he does bestÂ…
baking cookiesÂ… oh, wait, I got that messed up.

With the recent roll up's of remakes like Texas Chainsaw Massacre and
Halloween, coming soon Nightmare on Elm Street, is Hollywood literally
that much out of ideas? Like I said before, I think this would have
worked better as a sequel, because not having the original creators on
set makes the film feel like a bunch of frat guys who just thought
"Hey, wouldn't it be cool to make our own Jason movie?". Sometimes we
do have a winner with the remakes like Dawn of the Dead or even Texas
Chainsaw Massacre had it's moments as well, unfortunately Friday the
13th didn't do anything to stand out against the other movies. I do
recommend it for a night rental, it's always cool to see Jason and how
awesome his murders areÂ… kudos on the girl in the sleeping bag getting
set on fire, what aÂ… burn! Ha ha ha ha ha! I made a funny, ha ha ha,
eh, uh, I try, give me some credit.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Here is the usual "SPOILERS ahead" warning. Read at your own peril!!
I've always been a F13/Jason fan. Can't say I was excited about the
remake being produced by Michael Bay but at least I hoped we would get
some cool new special edition dvds (which we did). So expecting nothing
and knowing I had my old favorites still to watch I went to check it
out.

Have to say I was under impressed. One of the charms for me about F13
has always been the fact the movies didn't take themselves very
serious. The creators might disagree with that statement but come on,
how do you explain his healing factor, the fact Jason never runs but
somehow always get ahead of his victim and his "victim radar"? This new
movie tries really hard to make it "realistic". Jason runs (*sigh*)
after his victims. (Runs? Runs? Jason doesn't run!) There is some sort
of crazy mine below Camp Crystal Lake (?) that Jason now uses to get
around (because the director wanted a mine. You know, a generic mine,
not any particular kind). Along with bear traps and trip wires to let
him know where people are. Some half buried bus to come out of ...
somewhere on the camp ground. We only get one "Kill, kill, kill, Ma,
ma, ma" when he finds the hockey mask. (I remember reading that the new
creators wanted to have some "meaning" about why and where he got the
mask. Guess they forgot that because it's the same thing, he finds it.)
And oh yeah, not much happens at the camp because the producer, Michael
"Big Explosion" Bay, thinks that summer camps aren't scary. That
reminds me of the director for a Captain America movie who said he
hated the costume so he kept the hero out of costume as much as
possible. Where the Hell do they get these people? It's more of a
remake of F12 Part 3, than Part 1 or Part 2 though there are parts of
both in it. Nana Visitor is utterly wasted as the new Mrs. Voorhees.
There are some great comments over at Stacy Ponder's Final Girl blog
review. Then I found out something that would have kept me totally away
from the flick, the director is the same guy who did the god-awful
remake of Texas Chainsaw Massacre from a few years back (Marcus
Nispel). Honestly, if I had known that, I wouldn't have wasted the
$9.50 nor the time. But, I would have warned you my friends, this guy
doesn't ever need to make a movie again. Let alone another "horror"
movie.

It's not totally horrible and I'm sure the kids who like the remakes of
the current time will like it. But for this old timer, it takes the
parts of F13 I liked and totally ejects them in favor or "realism".
Honestly, it makes me worry even more about the upcoming "new" Star
Trek.

For old fans, I would recommend picking up the new versions of F13 1-3
and "His Name Was Jason". F13 P3 is finally in 3D, and His Name Was
Jason is hosted by Tom Savini. All kinds of 80's slasher goodness
there. Don't forget the original "Valentine's Day Massacre" just
released, also uncut for the first time ever. You'll enjoy it more than
this remake.

I'll give it 1 hockey mask out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
My title pretty much sums up what I feel when I recall this movie. It
was surely unlike any other horror movie re-make, sorry, RE-ENVISIONING
I've encountered in a LONG LONG time. The cheap scares were bumped up,
the gore was definitely there, and the sex...well, it wouldn't be a
"Friday the 13th" movie without the sex. As for Jason's new "attitude"
if you really wanna call it that, it's a huge plus in my book. He's
more bad ass, he's more ruthless and he's definitely more imaginative
with his killing 'methods'. I went in expecting another night of jumps
and scares, and got just that plus the satisfaction of knowing a
classic horror movie icon was finally re-done correctly. Although I
hate talking' about scenes in a movie, I have to say that having Jason
stick a camper in a sleeping bag and hang them over a roaring fire
while they scream for their lives at the top of their lungs...it's a
hugely big improvement from his usual hack and slash from his roots,
needless to say there is a lot of 2009 showing in this Jason
installment.

In final words of advice, I must say catch this while it's still in
theaters because in my opinion it's well worth shelling over the cash,
not once but twice.
