
Despite what some may say, Love and Other Drugs wasn't like other
romantic comedies I've seen except in the most general of senses, in
that it was a romantic comedy. I hadn't seen one set in the environment
of pharmaceutical sales or with a main character who had Parkinsons
disease, a setting which is very interesting as there are a lot of
things wrong with health care and the system today. It gives one
something to chew on while watching the rest of the movie.

There's a lot to like about the relationship between Jamie and Maggie.
They have a raw intensity and passion for each other that was a bit
much for some viewers, but in my opinion it was there to show how
connected they were both physically and mentally. I thought their
banter and teasing nature was cute. Nobody got wounded or sulked when
teased but just laughed and teased back. The initial attraction between
them started as an understanding of each other's loneliness and
vulnerability that allowed them to feel like someone else finally got
them after easily charming others with nothing more than a fascade.
Their relationship had passion, love, and a roller-coaster of emotions.

There was a scene midway through the movie where Maggie tells Jamie
that even though she may have many other moments like the ones that she
shared with him that it will never be as special or mean as much to her
and my heart wanted to swell because I knew exactly what she meant and
what it is like to love someone that much.

As they grew together, both characters changed and let go of their
issues with commitment and love. They tore down the walls they'd built
to protect themselves and just let themselves fall. It was beautiful to
me and I really enjoyed Love & Other Drugs.
<|_=00=_|>
This film surprised me in a good way.

From the trailer and the posters to be found in many of the bus
shelters of our town it would have been fair to have expected a routine
rom-com. The pose struck by the leads Jake Gylenhall & Anne Hathaway on
that poster just screamed "knock about rom-com,just like hundreds of
others" It isn't though and that was a pleasant and engaging surprise.

Jake Gylenhall pulls off the role of super bright but super slacker son
Jamie in a high achieving family well and is convincing as a
magnetising presence that women find irresistible.

The absence of Anne Hathaway's character Maggie in the first segment of
the film is the first suggestion that this will not be a routine paint
by numbers romance and Maggie's introduction sets the scene for the
complex character she successfully portrays.

This film covers a lot of ground and both of the leads are engaging and
believable.

Issues such as serious illness, the workings of the big pharmaceutical
companies and their attempts to influence the decision making of
medical professionals, the struggle people have to pay for treatment
and a believably complex love story are woven in without significant
signposting or obvious plot twists.

Once again, the two lead actors were excellent and overall this made
for an enjoyable and engaging film
<|_=00=_|>
The movie starts out as a generic and even pedestrian romantic comedy
and appears to be headed in the typical cliché driven direction but,
fortunately, evolves in to something more. Jake Gyllenhaal's character
and his alleged "funny" fat side kick are established almost
purposefully as illustrations of what's wrong with most romantic
comedies. It's Anne Hathaway's character that is the catalyst for the
transformation from two dimensional rom-com to something deeper and
more enjoyable. As she is fleshed out (pun intended because the more
Anne Hathaway nudity the better) her character forces both Gyllenhaal's
character and the film itself to grow (almost Viagra like). What
follows is a deep, sometimes moving and genuinely interesting film.
Commentary about battling illness, life and enjoying the moment are all
relevant and poignant. Even supporting characters are given moments to
shine. Oliver Pratt's drug rep has a wonderful scene delivered over
dinner and there's even a smart drunken ramble explaining what is wrong
with being a doctor and a commentary on the state of the Hippocratic
Oath. From an emotionless and even tedious start, this film surprised
me and is worth the price of a ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
Like Maggie, I was diagnosed with a degenerative, neurological illness
(with no cure or treatment) in my early 30s, and also met my husband
around that time. Hathaway's acting (and the script) captures with
devastating accuracy the emotions one goes through when confronting a
degenerative illness at an early age, particularly when falling in love
(i.e. trying to push someone away/set them free before you become a
burden on them; stubbornly seeking independence/avoiding vulnerability,
though in real life, you really do need someone to love and take care
of you; wanting to avoid the grief inherent in your diagnosis, and
particularly, wanting to avoid pulling someone ELSE into that grief;
going out and seeking support groups, and feeling empowered by this;
getting angry at your partner's refusal to accept what is; etc. etc.) 

I agree that portions of this movie were VERY Hollywood and over the
top,and also that it was trying to be everything for everyone (love
story,guy's flick, corporate commentary, light-hearted comedy,
melodrama,etc.) Regardless of any criticisms, though, I was sobbing
like a baby during the last third of the movie. It was just too real,
too familiar,too spot-on, and I know that unless people have walked in
similar shoes, they wouldn't be able to fully grasp the depth and grief
of what was unfolding on screen. In a way, I'm grateful for all the
fluff and comedy, because I wouldn't have been able to get through the
movie otherwise.

So I say, overall, this movie was incredible due to its sensitive and
accurate portrayal of Maggie's illness, and all of its emotional
ramifications. Good job.
<|_=00=_|>
A disjointed series of scenes, some quite funny; none, not one,
poignant  and that in a story about a Parkinson's sufferer. It feels
like TV: things happen because they have to happen at a certain time,
not because the characters have put them into motion. Thus, Jake must
meet Anne, learn about her disease, face her doubt about him, deal with
her leaving him, go to rescue her  all this because that's what the
story should do. But the scenes between the two of them are just like a
well-acted acting class-type escapades, with Jake very good and Anne
always a little over the top. They, the scenes, don't add up to
anything satisfying.

Zwick can't quite get the feature thing down. All his movies lack a
real resonance; they don't hold together as a whole. You don't feel
you've seen a real story because he understands writing and directing
scenes but he does not understand that plotting is an emotional thread
that builds into something more than just the addition of one beat on
another. He simply cannot develop a satisfying feature script. His
movies are like watching a very long trailer.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that have a weird marketing campaign, the
studio wants to sell it like a romantic comedy when its more like a
drama with complex and real characters. Anne Hathaway and Jake
Gyleenhaal have good chemistry on screen and secondary characters help
to bring equilibrium to a movie that other way could turn to be a
little depressing. I also think that this movie doesn't deserve the R
rating just because it deals with sex ( I live in Mexico and here we
have something like PG-15)hopefully people don't feel to uncomfortable
with the sex scene because it gives more credibility to the story.In
the end the film works better than others of its genre and its worth a
look ( probably not for a first date) but if you are already on a
relationship it will give you something to think and talk about.
<|_=00=_|>
Hard-partying, emotionally-detached man meets sensitive, artist woman
with fatal disease. They fall in love. They fall out of love. Will man
come to his senses? Will woman allow herself to feel love despite
downhill course of disease? Will the sappy music ever stop? Will we
keep watching this dreck? Will attractive people getting undressed and
having sex keep our attention? You know all the answers to these
questions, as this film is just a rehash of dozens that came before it.

The film raises, without subtlety, some questions society needs to
confront: the role of the pharmaceutical industry in the
medical-industrial complex, how we treat people with incurable
diseases, how people with incurable diseases search for cures and what
to wear to a pajama party.

Perhaps I should give this film more credit for avoiding flatulence, it
nevertheless gives us a few laughs on the subject of erectile
dysfunction and its cures, masturbation, three-way sex and internet
porn. So original.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say that "Love and Other Drugs" is clearly one of the better
films I've saw in awhile. For a variety of reasons for one the
chemistry between Gyllenhaal and Hathaway is in perfect form as the two
worked together before(as a couple in "Brokeback Mountain"). Second
it's an emotional story that involves sickness and finding unexpected
love. And finally what can I say the film has plenty of passion, lust
and hot steamy love scenes so plenty plenty of sex! So aside from those
reasons this picture can best be summed up as a kind of old fashioned
romance falling in love story that touches your emotions as you feel
the couples(Jamie and Maggie)growing pains of trust, sickness and feel
good pleasure. Still the sex overshadows those ingredients leaving a
happy and feel good side effect for a viewer like me and it helps
because I'm a big Anne Hathaway fan and with this picture you get to
see plenty of her skin.

Set in the mid 1990's when the economy was booming you have Jamie(Jake
Gyllenhaal)who's a young playboy from a well to do family and his
biggest love in life is going to bed with hot young females. Then Jamie
decides to get a little bit more power hungry when he becomes a
pharmaceutical sales rep. he's taken under the arms of an ego driven
boss Bruce(Oliver Platt)and the catch and sale of the game is for Jamie
to use his charm and good looks to help sell medicine like Zoloft and
Viagra(remember the wonder pills of the 90's!). Plus his connection
with a cocky Dr. Knight(Hank Azaria)helps his climb and profile in the
drug selling world too! Now that Jamie has became a hotshot
pharmaceutical rep. he now meets his match in one of Knight's patients
that being the sassy and witty sharp tongued free spirited sexy Maggie
Murdock(Anne Hathaway in her best and most sexy role of her career)as
you can see a lot of adjectives to describe her. Only blemish with the
beautiful Maggie is that she has stage one Parkinson's disease. Never
mind these hot young attractive singles hit it off perfect as this
quickly becomes a relationship of no strings attached lust bedroom
making very hot passionate sex(I must say the bed and love scenes were
very hot for an R rated film). And this is what both enjoy lots and
lots of sex.

Yet as the charms of Jamie continues to go both for Maggie and his
business he unexpectedly starts to have feelings for Maggie has he
finally meet his match can he charm the stubborn sex magnet Maggie? The
film is blended well with both comedy and drama as Jamie's slob geek
overweight brother Josh(Josh Gad) provides laughs trying to score and
it's fun seeing he's addicted to watching internet porn and sex tapes.
Plus the scene of Jamie's boner from taking the Viagra pill was down
right funny. Still Maggie is a serious go getter by traveling even to
Canada to Parkinson support groups in the search for new cures and ways
of living with the disease.

This film thru it all is wonderful as the sex and hot lustful passion
make it a tasty treat to watch and enjoy as the strong chemistry of
Jake and Anne is great as Hathaway is sexy as ever. Those factors alone
make it one of the better films I've seen. And adding the sickness
theme of Parkinson's makes it depressing to some still it proves that
anyone can be loved and that it's unexpected and everyone needs
someone. Most of all it proves that sex and hot passion can easy lead
to strong emotions of feeling and yes you guessed it as this film
proves love. Love & Other Drugs is a feel good film that's enjoyable it
touches emotions leaves you happy and you don't feel any side effects
only love in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
What was Anne Hathaway thinking? Did she fall for the 'to be taken as a
serious actress you have to do lots of tasteless panting sex scenes and
flash your bare breasts as often as possible?' She didn't even look
particularly comfortable in the sex scenes - it was as if she was
imitating an actress from a cheap porn movie.

Improbable storyline, improbable characters and extremely crass
dialogue. And what genius thought up the brother's character? All the
characters were hard to like but he was positively repulsive. Why on
earth didn't Jamie just kick him out? I certainly would have been a lot
happier. Ugh, the entire movie left a bad taste in my mouth. Extremely
disappointing. I wish I'd walked out.

And who knew that everyone with Parkinson's has a potty mouth? And that
was meant to show us something of who they really were? I don't think
so.
