
The latest installment in the series of lazy spoofs, this film offers
virtually nothing to its audience, insulting their intelligence for an
hour-and-a-half with perhaps the worst collection of blatantly
uninspired and recycled gags ever put to into a film.

The horrendous excuse for a plot centers on a suburban wife (Ashley
Tisdale) and her dimwitted husband (Simon Rex) moving into a haunted
house with their possessed adopted children. From there, the film
parodies the biggest blockbusters of the last few years, but does so
without a semblance of relevance, creativity or wit.

It says a lot about the film that the only half-laughs to be had come
from Charlie Sheen and Lindsay Lohan sharing the opening scene Â– an
incredibly stupid and borderline cringe-worthy, but inexplicably
entertaining chuckle at their fall from grace.

It's all downhill from there as the rest of the film plays out as a
series of unconnected set pieces seen literally hundreds of times
before. Often, such an unappealing movie is still able to salvage hope
by suiting itself for a target market, but it is hard to see any
audience group, from 15 year old to stoner, defending this abomination.

One would have to drink Lindsay under the table, smoke copious amounts
of bud with Snoop Dogg and/or Lion and snort pure tiger blood with
Charlie to even come close to drawing any semblance of enjoyment from
this disaster. An imminent sweep of this year's Razzies doesn't seem
like ironic punishment enough for one of the worst films ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
I will start off by saying I LOVE the Scary Movie franchise, especially
scary movie 3. My girlfriend and I went to see it on the 12th, we were
so excited because we both love the previous films. 5 to 10 minutes
into it, neither of us were laughing, just straight face. I whispered
over to her and told her this is really stupid, she agreed. None of
other people that were sitting in the room laugh either. I can't
believe we actually sat through the whole movie until the end, since we
paid for it already. It had like 3 moments that made us chuckle a bit,
but that was it. If I could demand my money back, I would. Little note
for the producers- Instead of paying huge amounts of money to the
celebrities, how about spend some in developing the story and jokes? I
would say this movie *might* make little 10 years old children laugh,
but that's about it.

It was so bad that I decided to make an IMDb account to criticize.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't bother going to see this junk. It appears to be very low budget
and infantile. I have enjoyed the other Scary movies but this one has
no redeeming value. My 15 year old son said it was the worst movie he
has ever seen. Disjointed. People were leaving the theater before the
halfway point and it is only an hour and a half. There is really not
much you can say about it except to wait until it comes out on Netflix
and even then it will hard to watch. Honestly I can't believe that
after the movie company watched this movie they had the nerve to
release it. In my opinion this would hurt your reputation as a Film
maker more than helping by a long shot. There is a considerable
difference in the quality of this Scary movie and the others, none of
the original cast appear in the movie and it seems to be based mostly
on paranormal activity, the set becomes very stagnant. My son said that
the actual paranormal activity was funnier. My son loves the Scary
movie brand, he said this one would give the franchise a bad name and
he would give it a -2 if he could.

This is a good reason to use Pirate Bay. The public is certainly being
ripped off by paying for this kind of crap.

Anyone who gives this movie a positive review should be suspect. They
are either being paid or benefiting in some way.

I like this type of movie - this one is just bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never written a review before, in fact i've never logged into this
before, but i HAD to...just to say this is hands down the worst movie
i've ever seen in my entire life, people were leaving the cinema and
sadly we stayed hoping and wishing it would improve. It didn't!

You know those kids shows on Disney channel where someone bangs their
head and you see kids crying laughing, picture that but even less
funny, oh and by the way, constantly through the movie it's people
banging their head etc, they've ripped the Disney channel off for
comedy and failed, HOW BAD DO YOU HAVE TO BE AT COMEDY??? 

I'm actually angry at the movie, i got home about 15 minutes ago and i
haven't stopped swearing since. Seriously don't watch this movie, don't
even watch the trailer. If you see it on a bus stop sign graffiti it.
<|_=00=_|>
The only intelligent actor/actress from the entire Scary Movie series
is Anna Ferris. You know why I say that, is because she wasn't in Scary
Movie 5. She was smart. I'm not sure exactly what went wrong with this
one, but I enjoyed the last 4 a lot more. Given that the 4th one was
reaching a new level of stupidity, it was still 10x more funnier than
the 5th. I regret paying $10 to watch this. This is the 2nd time in two
weeks that I have made the mistake to pay money to see a stupid movie
that ended up making me completely question why I go to the movies.
Hollywood needs to wake up. Just because you can charge people money to
see a movie, doesn't mean you should. Certain movies do not belong at
the movie theater, and this one should have been on that list. The
director should have never let this movie leave their studio, and for
the sake of all of the actors, someone there should have stopped this
movie from being produced. Again - I enjoyed the first 4, but I am now
done with the Scary Movie saga. Enough is enough, this is just
insulting. You can easily tell that even the highest paid actors like
Charlie Sheen and that chick from Modern Family, put on a massive layer
of suck in their roles. Are we all getting that lazy now days that we
are going to record ourselves doing a horrible job, posting it to the
world, and expecting money to come rolling in? I think the writers of
Scary Movie should delete this one, and make a new Scary Movie 5. The
next one that comes out will only be watched on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The era of spoof and parody is dead.

Let me start off by saying that I knew this film was going to be
horrible from the start. I had read reviews and knew it was bad, but
being so infatuated with film and theater, I actually wanted to see the
movie to diagnose exactly what made it so horrible. (Insult me if you
must, but I have a lot of free time on my hands and I love all kinds of
movies.)

I'm not gonna lie, I went into the theater with the hope that on some
slight chance, I would enjoy the film. Wrong. The movie was so boring
and tasteless that I was actually distracted with my phone for some
parts during the film, which is of the utmost rarity for me. 

The horrible acting and line delivery dried this film out so much that
I don't know where to begin. Ashley Tisdale was definitely not as good
as Anna Faris was, and obviously, everyone will compare the two. I hate
to admit it, but Mac Miller, Snoop Dogg, and Katt Williams all could
have made audiences laugh with the material they were given, but were
just too dry. 

Admittedly, there were some very rare parts of the movie that had a
somewhat witty humor to it, but it was only once or twice, and weak at
that. The rest of the stupid slapstick humor was just so lame and
dragging. Slapstick humor should stay within the PG level of humor for
the kids. 

On that note, the movie had overly crude, and just STUPID sexual humor
that was just stupid and weak. Even hard R teenage sex comedies are
more sophisticated than this. I laughed maybe one time, and it wasn't
even a laugh. I kinda exhaled sharply while smiling. 

Overall, there was almost no sophisticated or witty humor, horrid
acting, and it was all just plain bad. So yes, the reviews are correct,
it was horrible. The only reason I give it a 3 instead of a 1 was
because hundreds and hundreds of people put months and months of work
into an 85 minute piece of what they thought was art, and giving a
movie a 1 or maybe a 2 is too disrespectful to the art that is film.
(But then again, this movie is pretty disrespectful to the art that is
film as well.)
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't know where to even start with this, so let's just get
started. This movie is not funny. There you go - it fails as a comedy.
In addition to that, it's dumb, mean-spirited, and in poor taste, and I
think you're going to agree with me about that even if you like stuff
that is in poor taste. I mean, this is basically an exploitation film
for weed- and gangsta rap-obsessed 13-year-olds. It covers all the
bases: sex scene involving clowns and ponies, sex scene involving pool
cleaning machines, dildo collections being found by small children,
things getting stuck up dogs' anuses, a scene featuring Snoop Dogg (or
Snoop Lion or whatever he insists that people call him now) and a giant
blunt, etc. Wow, this is multiplex entertainment in 2013?

I saw the first Scary Movie and thought it was pretty amusing in
places. I'm also a huge fan of totally absurd slapstick comedies like
Airplane and the Naked Gun movies. What is it exactly that makes this
film so awful where the others, at least on some level, succeeded? I
can't think of any way to explain it except this: watching Scary MoVie
is the film equivalent of eating White Castle sliders for an hour and a
half, washing them down with a gallon of Mountain Dew, topping it all
off with seven pounds of cheesecake and then doing the Mentos and Coke
thing (featured in this film, incidentally) so you can projectile-puke
the stuff you just ate all over your friends who were expecting it and
think it's funny. Truly, honestly, that's the caliber of stuff you're
going to subject yourself to for 90 minutes if you insist on watching
this.

The movie tries to make fun of Inception, Black Sawn, Evil Dead, etc.,
but it seems to me that you have to actually be smarter than something
if you want to effectively make fun of it. Instead, they should make a
movie that makes fun of all the Scary Movie movies. Honestly, they
should be pretty easy targets. This movie does not have the minimum
level of intelligence required to comment about anything at all. The
best it can do is make "peehole" jokes and try to get the audience to
laugh at monkeys flinging poo at the wall. No, it's really not funny.

I'm racking my brains trying to recall if there was anything at all
good about this film. I do remember laughing at a couple of the gags.
That sex scene with clowns and ponies was actually somewhat amusing -
there, I said it. I'm afraid this review is going to come off the wrong
way because it sounds like I refuse to watch stuff that pushes
boundaries of good taste. Hardly, man. I even liked Videodrome, which
Roger Ebert called "nauseating." The real problem is that this film
uses boundary-pushing as an excuse to be stupid. In reality, it's about
as intelligent as a stoned middle school dropout, incidentally the only
type of person I can imagine enjoying this.

I was about to start getting depressed about the state of the world
given that this kind of obvious dog dookie is considered entertainment,
but it doesn't seem that other people found it all that entertaining
either. I watched at least two couples walk out of the theater before
the end of the film, so ultimately I'm concluding that there's probably
some reason to have hope about the future of this planet. Thanks, Scary
MoVie! Not that there's anything to be thankful for except that no one
actually came up to me and hit me in the head with a shovel while the
film was playing. They'll probably include that in part six.
<|_=00=_|>
It is almost inconceivable to imagine how much effort a group of people
would have to put into making a film as bad as Scary Movie 5. The
latest instalment in the series of lazy spoofs, not including some
unforgivable side projects including Date Movie and Epic Movie, this
film offers virtually nothing to its audience, insulting their
intelligence for an hour-and-a-half with perhaps the worst collection
of blatantly uninspired and recycled gags ever put to celluloid.

The film's horrendous excuse for a plot centres on a suburban wife
(Ashley Tisdale) and her dimwitted husband (Simon Rex) moving into a
haunted house with their possessed adopted children. From there, the
film brings its staple of parodying the biggest blockbusters of the
last few years, but does so without a semblance of relevance,
creativity or wit. 

It says a lot about the film that the only half-laughs to be had come
from Charlie Sheen and Lindsay Lohan sharing the opening scene- an
incredibly stupid and borderline cringe-worthy, but inexplicably
entertaining chuckle at their fall from grace. 

It's all downhill from there, though, as the rest of the film plays out
as a series of unconnected set pieces seen literally hundreds of times
before. Often, such an unappealing movie is still able to salvage some
hope by suiting itself for a target market, but it is hard to see any
audience group, from 15 year-olds to stoners, defending this
abomination.

One would have to drink Lindsay under the table, smoke copious amounts
of bud with Snoop Dogg and/or Lion and snort pure tiger blood with
Charlie to even come close to drawing any semblance of enjoyment from
this disaster. An imminent sweep of this year's Razzies doesn't seem
like ironic punishment enough for one of the worst films ever made.

*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So
drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you
thought of my review. If you're looking for a writer for your movie
website or other publication, I'd also love to hear from you.*
<|_=00=_|>
yeah, i saw it! don't know why, the first 4 films weren't good either.
but i thought that this title will be better. well, i was wrong, by all
means! this movie made me feel so bad with myself, and i was literally
"Grossed" out of myself, so i didn't want to see, nor talk with anyone.
for days i wondered why this movie was ever made, disgusting jokes, no
plot, bad acting, bad scene sequences over the entire movie, with no
progress what so ever! really, the actors in the end thought to
themselves, "why are we doing this?". I WILL NOT recommend ANYONE to
SEE this movie, and if you saw it, I'm sorry i didn't review this
earlier. the human race deserves better movies! bye
<|_=00=_|>
Let me first start by telling you that I really wanted to rate this
movie a 1/2 star, but the system they have set up here wouldn't allow
me too. This movie was one of the top 10 worst movies that I have ever
seen before in my "ENTIRE" life. Why? First lets start with the plot,
Oh! I'm sorry there was none!!! All I will say is "KEEP YOUR MONEY"
this was $15 that I could have spent on something worth while. I
actually spent more time looking at my watch than I did the movie,
because it was just that awful. Malcom Lee you must really needed the
money, because this movie sucked!!! I am so used to seeing very funny
skits with the previous scary movies. In my opinion this movie series
has been going to the dogs ever since the Wayans Brothers stop
contributing to the funny nature of this series. Also, the movie is
more sexual in content than I would have liked and I really believe it
should have been Rated R instead of PG-13. The acting is very poor in
this movie and you would think with the actors that were involved you
would have expected it to be very humorous. I cant tell you how long
the movie was because after an hour I just couldn't take it anymore so
my wife and I walked out of the movie.
