
Well I just saw this film first thing Friday (opening). I was seated
near a gentlemen who was having quite a reaction to every scene, and in
one scene (not a good one for the acting - but I will get there in a
minute) he literally started waving his arms and shaking his head. I
look over and the man was tearing up and I though he was nearly about
to breakdown in full tears. Seeing such a powerful reaction to some
very early scenes in the movie, I thought to myself, "Maybe this is the
guy who wrote it??" The novel I thought, unaware at the time who wrote
the screenplay. So immediately upon my return, I googled Bret Easton
Ellis pics and reviewed many photos. I would bet my life it was him
next to me today. Hair a little longer and darker than in some photos,
but same nose, and face and exact same eyes. Again he was right next to
me so I was not seeing him from across the theater. I asked
(whispering) if he was OK. He said yes, then a moment later (after
another reaction) quietly got up and moved to the back of the theater.
A while later he exit in the middle of the film.

Now, for the film itself. This is no "Less Than Zero" which would be
the closest genre comparison of the Ellis filmography.

While some of the veteran actors gave decent performances the material
seemed more shallow than the LA socialites the film was following. But
after watching the film I suspect this is much more the fault of the
directing than anyone else. It takes the proper hand and understanding
of Ellis material to make it work on the stage or film. Unfortunately,
two of the lesser performances came from actors we see much more in the
film. Foster and Raido seemed like actors "acting" like the types
rather then being the types. While the veteran actors seemed to add
depth to their performances (beyond the material presented) these two
"acted" on a very shallow level, as though trying to imitate the type
of person they thought they were playing. Apparently giving their
character little thought.

The movie sets up many broken and damage relationships and a couple of
potentially heated situations, before it suddenly ends.....What??? The
entire film ends up being a slice of life (many tragic life's) type of
film, with little story or payoff as the ending comes abruptly. At the
end I could care less about there problems or issues and the story and
directing doesn't help those feelings.

Now I am not a person who goes to films to see naked women (a little to
old to make that the priority and was unaware of this one), but when
the movie was over all I could think was "at least Amber Heard was
naked / half-naked a lot and she looked good!" In the lala land of
skinny, to outrageously bony women, this one has nice curves. But its
sad when you leave a film thinking "where was the story" and you know
you will only remember the girl who looked good in "THAT FILM" cause
the title and film itself will be forgotten quickly! Now I have not
read the Ellis novel, but he did help write the screenplay. Based on
his reaction, I can't help to feel this film is not what he imagined it
would be. It certainly was not up to what Hollywood has been able to do
with some of his other works.

To Ellis (as I am sure it was), remember the feeling you had while
watching the film. And make sure the next time you sell your story to
Hollywood to get paid enough money so you can take it a little easier
when the "Filmmakers" butcher your work (who likely did not want you
interfering with them cause THEY know how to make films, not some
writer)! Or in this case, they at least produced a very unsatisfying
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me get one thing straight. There are very few movies I won't sit
through. No amount of shock or horror or immorality or amorality or
even cheesiness will deter me. Practically the only thing that will is
poor film making. The type that is lazy and bland. Mostly I manage to
avoid these type of thing by never watching films with Vince Vaughan
but once in a while you let your guard down. I could claim it was Billy
Bob but it was probably Winona. What can i say? I am weak.

This film has nothing to offer and nothing to say. The bass monotone of
the soundtrack that washes over the disparate and poorly written open
15-20 minutes tries to imply a threatening atmosphere of doom or
something but you cannot imply meaning without there being meaning.
There was more to the eighties than bad hair and depeche mode. We
already know that blonde people are shallow and sex without love is a
meaningless experience ("but as meaningless experiences go its one
of.....").

Films are difficult to make. But there are a few simple rules that will
help. Establish character and motivation. Give the audience something
to care about or at least intrigue them with something unfamiliar and
new. Don't pretend you have said something when you haven't yet. Try to
earn the respect of the audience with good dialogue. Multi-layered
narratives can work but weak trivial garbage on top of trivial garbage
is still ... well you can work it out.

Of course i might be wrong. Some people seemed to like it. But then a
lot of people thought shoulder pads were a good idea. And some still
do.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought I would see this movie with a lot of thoughts running through
my head when it ended. That did not really happen. There's not really
anything to be said about the story when it finished. The reason is
that it was not a story. It was just things happening. There wasn't a
beginning, middle or end, which is required for dramatic attachment to
a movie. Scenes simply played out for a couple hours.

The Informers is not as terrible as most people on IMDb and Rotten
Tomatoes make it out to be. At the same time, it isn't a good movie. If
you want to see it the way I wanted to, go ahead and see it. I don't
need to talk you out of it. Just remember, this is Bret Easton Ellis.
The characters are shallow and their arcs are difficult to pinpoint.
Nonetheless, some of you may be able to relate to the things going on.

On a final note, there is some really decent cinematography and good
acting by a good number of the cast. The entire movie is very intimate,
so don't take a prude friend with you when you see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey all, I read many comments and I think a lot of you missed the
point.

Yes the ending was sudden...very! But you need to look at the time this
was filmed. Whilst I cant tie every major role in with my
hypothesis...here goes: This was filmed at the time when AIDS was
unknowingly ripping through various populations. They make reference to
it at the start of the film with a news clip in the background and the
rash - which ties in with the woman at the end of the film.

The woman on the beach at the end of the movie had AIDS - that much is
clear. The rapid ending represented not only her likely rapid
departure, but a twisted entry into the fact that while the movie was
ending, the problem was just beginning for many other characters in the
movie.

That woman is the key, because if you back-track through all the sexual
relations in the film (who slept with whom), you will quickly
understand that she was the key to spreading AIDS to many of the main
characters. The whole point of the movie was that it was a tragedy -
here she was dying, and a dozen or so others were also inflicted but
didn't know it because little was known of AIDS at the time, and they
were all separated by degrees of separation - other than sleeping with
her or someone who slept with her.

The blond spiky haired guy she shared a bed with - he gave it to
Bassinger's character as he was sleeping with her. Bassinger gave it to
her (sort of) ex-husband because although they didn't sleep with each
other, she injected him with a syringe (ie Im assuming one she recently
used as she seemed to have it on hand!) near the end. 

The blonde woman also probably gave it to the guy that really liked her
and was sharing the bed with the spiky haired guy and the blonde
infected woman. And so on, and so on.

Watch the film in that light, and you quickly realize that the
intertwining of many (maybe not all) of the stories and characters was
around the passing on of AIDS and there was silent deadly link between
many of them.

Im not sure about the video star - Id have to watch it again to see if
he had a link back to someone likely carrying the virus. If he did, it
was interesting that he had this thing about sleeping with young
people....and its possible the young girl who appears to have been
abducted by the child stealing guy is one of the young women the star
slept with, so he was tied up in it too.

I am not sure how the man and his son in Hawaii fits in.

Well, thats my theory!
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't commented on a film on IMDb in years but this movie seems to
be getting mostly slammed so I feel a need to log one for other side
because I am definitely a fan.

I'm going to talk about the movie as a whole, so consider this your
**************SPOILERS*********************************** warning. 

I can see why some people wouldn't like this movie. It's definitely not
a comedy and it's definitely not mainstream. The majority of the
characters are not likable, though most of them are sympathetic- which
is what I think bothers so many audience members: you can't
automatically hate Graham, Les, Christie, Laura, Carole, etc. because
you pity them, and maybe even empathize with them. And that is a
feeling most people don't want to feel, especially at the movies, where
we have been led to believe we should always expect characters we want
to relate to, and a few hours of escape from reality. 

This movie isn't an escape. It's glitzy and polished, it's full of
beautiful people, but that's the lure that gets you into the trap. And
this movie is a trap: it's about how there is no escape because life
doesn't end just because the credits role and the things you do and are
done to you are going to be with you forever. So choose wisely- or at
the very least, humanely. That's the lesson Graham is supposed to learn
in this film. The ending is ambiguous as to if he learns it or not.
Either way, it's not a lesson most of us want to be confronted with,
especially on a night out, and it's really not something we want to be
confronted with by a movie only to have the movie fail to then tell us
what to think by having a clear cut resolution for the character. 

There is a lot of bile thrown at this film for it's lack of morality
but I actually find the film very moral: the idea of "good" is integral
to the story and characters. It just never gets defined. Which is true
for most people in the real world too, unless they have subscribed to
some notion of "good" outside of themselves- i.e. religion, the law,
etc. The people in the INFORMERS have been placed outside of the usual
social constructs of good, however, because they are famous (The Rock
Star), wealthy (William and Laura), beautiful (Graham, Martin,
Christie), losers (Jack and his uncle), observers (Carole) or liars
(Tim) and so now they must struggle to find a new morality- which is
hard when you're living in a society that doesn't appreciate thinking
for yourself and if anything encourages everyone to look, act and think
the same. There is a reason why almost all the outsiders in the movie
are brunettes. There is also a reason why they are almost always the
most thoughtful, sympathetic people in the story (Raymond, Rachel,
Nina, and even Susan is clearly a bottle blonde starting to let her
roots show). This movie is about people who have been conforming/buying
into the game, but who are waking up to realize (mostly too late) what
they may have lost for doing so. Some of them are even trying to warn
us. That's where the title comes from. 

The technical parts of the movie are hard to fault. It looks beautiful
and the dialogue and scenes move with a sleek economy, reduced to the
bare bones of what each character, scene, story needs. Perhaps people
don't realize this is a drama because it's not overblown like most
Hollywood dramas. There are no big speeches. There are no tears. There
are few breakdowns. But there often aren't in real life, especially
amongst people who are not good at being in touch with their feelings.
And if these people were good at being in touch with their feelings,
chances are the stuff that happens to them, wouldn't be happening.

The movie isn't flawless. There is a scene between Rachel and Les in
the book that I would have loved to see included. Carole's story feels
a bit too abbreviated and could have used one more scene of closure.
Susan's escape on the train from LA would have been a nice way to bring
a bit more balance to the bleakness of the film. A male on male kiss
would have been nice, though I applaud the film for being as up front
as it was with the bisexuality and in the book there are no gay sex
scenes so I can understand the choice to avoid them in the movie-
especially if you consider the implication that any tenderness between
Graham and Martin is something they are hoping to ignore themselves. In
the end, though, these flaws are really just a wish list because I
wanted to see more of this story and these people; there are no
missteps in the film itself, from my perspective. And maybe it's best
that we don't get more; as the final image of Christie on the beach,
waiting for death, tells us: ignorance is often its own kind of bliss.
<|_=00=_|>
I had good expectations about "The Informers". Being a fan of Bret
Easton Ellis' writing, knowing that he co-wrote the script himself, and
with a cast that includes names like Billy Bob Thornton and Mickey
Rourke, it had everything to be a new cult favourite, right? Wrong. I'm
not familiar with Gregor Jordan's previous work ("Two Hands", "Buffalo
Soldiers"), and given his speech before the film première at Sundance
on January 22nd, I don't doubt his good intentions about this project.
Unfortunately, a good movie isn't made just of good intentions. As in
most of Ellis' work, the protagonists are a bunch of shallow, pretty
rich kids (Jon Foster, Lou Taylor Pucci, Amber Heard, among others) and
their just as shallow elderly peers/parents (Kim Basinger, who played
Foster's lover in "The Door in the Floor", now plays his mother, who's
depressed because of her husband's  Billy Bob Thornton  affair with
the confused newswoman terribly played by Winona Ryder; less serious is
Chris Isaak as Pucci's womanizing father, who seemed to have fun
playing his character), in 1983 Los Angeles.

Jordan said during the Q&A that this is a movie about Los Angeles, and
that Robert Altman's "Short Cuts" was an inspiration for it. It's light
years away from the depth, originality and brilliance of "Short Cuts",
though. Jordan doesn't know how to direct this sort of material; it
pales in comparison to Mary Harron's insanely secure hand over
"American Psycho", also based on an Ellis novel. "The Informers"
doesn't even engage the audience like the flawed, but fairly
entertaining "The Rules of Attraction". It tries too hard to be a cool
movie and fails, almost always, miserably. The overall acting is pretty
mediocre, although Isaak and Pucci bring some life to their characters.
Foster, who was great in "The Door in the Floor", shows that he's not
yet ready to play a lead (and he didn't even have to carry the movie on
his shoulders à la Christian Bale; this is a big ensemble where nobody
really stands out, and I'm including a pre-Wrestler Mickey Rourke and
the late Brad Renfro, who plays the perhaps only likable character, in
the list).

Jordan said Ellis was afraid to show up for the movie première at
Sundance, probably predicting the criticism that was to come. I don't
blame him (and I feel for Jordan too since you gotta respect someone
who has the guts to face the honor - and pressure - of having your
movie premiering at Sundance). Although nobody was impolite during the
Q&A, the movie got trashed by the critics afterwards.

I have no idea how well this is gonna do at the box office, although
Amber Heard's constant nudity will certainly catch some attention and
give her lots of job offers (too bad her acting skills are still rather
poor). I wouldn't call "The Informers" a terrible movie, just a very
forgettable one. The final scene (not the conclusion, but the very
final scene itself) is disturbing, sad and yes, memorable; but by then
you feel like you wasted too much time with something that's been done
several times, and much better, before. 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
First let me start off by saying that I am a fan of the book, which is
now one of my favorite books. So I was very excited about the movie. I
honestly liked the movie. I do not think that it is a great movie or
worthy of anything, but its not horrible, like everyone else thinks it
is.

I'm not sure if people hate on this movie because they think the acting
sucks, or because they think there is no plot line. I can agree on both
parts. One, there were certain actors in this movie whose acting was
simply bad. But then there were others, such as Kim Basinger, Winona
Ryder, Mickey Rourke, Jon Foster, Mel Raido, who played Bryan Metro,
who all rocked. Two, there were aspects in the book that could have
made the movie better, such as not taking Jamie the vampire completely
out of the movie and a much better ending. But the other thing to
remember is that this is not the book, its a movie based off of the
book and for what they used in the movie is pretty accurate. My advice
would be to read the book before seeing the movie. In doing so, I think
the movie brought the characters from the book to life.

I also feel that another reason why people didn't like this movie is
because all of the supernatural elements were taken out. I will gladly
admit that I would have loved for there to have been vampires and
aliens in this movie.

And lastly, and this is the main reason why I think people hate this
movie or just don't get it, The Informers is about scummy people in the
early 80's in Los Angeles and focuses on how they are all connected in
some way. THAT'S IT. And the movie portrays it perfectly in my opinion.
There isn't much else that you could do with the movie when that's all
the story is about. People also need to know ahead of time that you are
not going to like these people either, minus the select few who are not
entirely heartless. Honestly, it's a good, gritty story.

If you are like me and you like movies about sex, drugs, the 80's, Los
Angeles, and greed, then this movie is worth seeing. I feel that this
movie is a documentary on the 80's. You want 80's, this movie delivers
80's. Granted the movie wont beat out the book, the movie is still
good.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I'm shocked by the amount of negative reviews I've seen for
this film. It seems as though everyone has missed the point entirely.

THIS FILM IS A SATIRE. So saying it's a glorification of sex, drugs,
and decadence is absurd.

Second of all, this film is not about plot - it's a character study.

Yes, this is a film about the selfish, narcissistic L.A. scene and the
people who inhabit it. And no, this film is not attempting to glorify
the lifestyle these characters lead. The film is a warning, a modern
morality tale. This film could have just as easily been set in ancient
Rome. In the book, it's clear that Christie is HIV positive, and of
course, the implication is that everyone she's slept with, as well as
everyone that has slept with everyone she has is positive as well.
Hardly a glorification of sex, drugs, and rock and roll. Everyone in
this film is lonely, desperate, and lost and will most likely soon be
dead. A sequel to this film would depict the characters are wasting
away from AIDS in their expensive private hospital rooms. Nothing good
comes from the way these characters act, so how can this be a
glorification?

Ellis, like in American Psycho and Gramorama, is not trying to
glamorize this lifestyle, he's attempting to satirize and criticize the
people it creates. I'm frankly surprised that all can't see that. And
The Informers does this very well. It shows us people that are
difficult to like and even easier to hate. Towards the end of the film,
the viewer isn't sure if these characters are to be pitied or laughed
at. We're not sure if we should be appalled or fascinated. And that's
the point. The Informers" is not a film about "sex, drugs, and rock and
roll, European-style" (as an actor who plays Graham from the movie so
eloquently puts it in the commentary). Rather, it's a film about
beautiful people doing awful things. Why? To hi-light the moral decay
that exists in our culture. To shock us into change. Bret Easton Ellis,
a self-professed "moralist", is making a statement; beauty is only
skin-deep and decadence will lead to your downfall. 

Also, despite the social commentary, this is one hell of a beautiful
film.

Perhaps what is so disturbing for people and why this film is so
harshly criticized is because of what it does. It holds a mirror up to
the viewer and you won't necessarily like what you see. There are no
heroes in this film. Only moral decay, desperation, apathy. People who
lack in a moral compass and need guidance. There is no catharsis and no
"happy ending." There is no resolution. You are only left with your
thoughts.

At its heart, this interlocking web of shorts is really about the
complex and fragile dynamics between fathers and sons. As the actor who
plays Tim says it's a "relationship piece" and I agree.

Now, that said, being a big fan of Ellis' work myself, this film
disappoints as the "adaptation" it claims to be. For one thing, in the
book, Bryan Metro is a vampire, and there is no suggestion of this in
the film. Also, the film downplays the effect of AIDS on the
characters, which is of course the main "concequence" of these
character's grotesquely decadent lifestyles. In the film, it is implied
that Christie is dying of AIDS, while in the book it is made clear.
arguably the antagonist, its her decadence that brings about the demise
of everyone around her. 

Perhaps it's this line that encapsulates the film in a way; "you can't
make it in this town unless you're really willing to do some awful
things. And you know, I'm willing." And this is the beauty of film. WE
would never do such things, but it's thrilling to watch these "fake"
people on screen do them. 

The irony - a common device in Ellis' work - is how these beautiful
people are doing awful things to each other. It's interesting that the
director said that for this film he was inspired by Italian movies from
the 1970s, depicting beautiful people in terrible situations. The
themes of decadence, hedonism and the price of that lifestyle fit well
with the ominous soundtrack and dark tone the film used. 

"The Informers" is more than another 80s noir period film with a killer
soundtrack featuring beautiful naked young people doing drugs. That is
the surface of this film. The purpose, the "message" dare I say, goes
far deeper than that and is based on how you choose to interpret this
film and the book it is based on. We are not meant to laugh at these
people, despite how lost and clueless they are, we're meant to pity
them, and loathe the parents who made them the way they are. As Graham
tearfully explains to Martin, he needs someone to tell him "what's good
and what's bad" and asks how he's supposed to know if no one ever told
him.

On the surface, The Informers is a fascinating film on its own merit.
It falls short as a successful adaptation of Ellis' book, though.
<|_=00=_|>
The informers is not a bad movie, but it is definitely not a movie you
would like to see twice. Various stories are told and lives are exposed
in this film but nothing shown really gets to the viewer. It's main aim
is to show the very essence of some of the luxurious lives of
California big shots at the end of the 80s.

While intensive drug abuse, cheap rock n' roll and sex is going on the
director shows confrontational situations within families, adolescents
that have everything and nothing at the same time and Micky Roorke,
that was probably in this film as a source of information about the 80s
cocaine as the new trend and career downfall. No complains with K.
Basinger and Billy Bob though there is no mayor performance in the
cast. Script could have been much better and it's far from original.

There is literally no need for anyone to watch this film unless you
want to see the dark side of fame and Hollywood which is definitely a
cliché.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Informers" is a compelling film that goes into the lives of a few
inhabitants of 1983 Los Angeles. These characters all have one common
feature, the absence of personal morals in their lives. As their lives
have sudden changes they learn more about themselves and others.

After watching this movie I sat in the theater for a couple minutes to
comprehend what i just saw. What i realized was that every story
teaches a different lesson. The characters were not as far-fetched as
many people are saying. This movie is not as extreme as people believe
it is. I think that the film did lake some comedic relief and tended to
be too serious which can make it difficult to gain interest. But, if
your like me, you will always find something interesting in movies.

And also, after watching the film, unlike many critics are saying, this
film actually taught me something, if not a few things. One particular
scene, which might have been hard to catch, had a very distinct climax
in which self realization is established. The movie ends with a pretty
memorable scene that is pretty clear.

Overall, acting wasn't that bad, Billy Bob Thorton i believe was the
best in the cast. A few characters could have been polished up a bit
though. The film seems pretty accurate in depicting 80's as well.

This movie is a good watch, not a must watch. Not something to be
watched for someone who is narrow minded. While it did lake some
elements of a memorable film, it wasn't as good as a film like Crash
for instance, But definitely worth my time and money.
