
The style of the movie largely relies on sweeping glass and steel shots
of London, while they're beautifully done and almost futuristic, you'd
be forgiven for thinking it was the opening scenes of The Apprentice
they're so disjointed from the film itself.

The Sweeney are The Flying Squad of London's Metropolitan Police,
tasked with cracking down on violent crime and armed robberies. They're
loud, cocky, and vicious and, if the cases we're shown are anything to
go by, very, very bad at their job.

Regan (Winston) is head man and a law unto himself, his sidekick Carter
(Drew) and the rest of his special ops team are housed in a swish
crow's nest of Scotland Yard with all mod cons. While Winston and Drew
have an unmistakable chemistry on screen they really didn't have much
to work with. Drew delivers his lines painfully slow, as if inebriated
but you have to give it to the guy, he's not bad when it comes to
fisticuffs. The gung ho ways and abysmal record of their squad attracts
the attention of Internal Affairs, who are just waiting for a reason to
shut them down. The wait isn't very long.

England's capital is largely deserted for the duration, which again
beggars belief. There's a monumental hot pursuit and shoot out on an
almost empty Trafalgar Square with just enough passers by to be pushed
violently to the ground by both the fleeing criminals and the cops
themselves, by the third time, it was comically so. It would appear
that The Sweeney have been trained at the Storm Trooper Shooting Range
as London town is shot up in relentless gunfire but not one bullet
reaches its target. Think Hot Fuzz not Miami Vice.

The plot is convoluted, the cases needlessly complicated and for the
life of me I couldn't get excited about a Serbian Georgie Burgess as
the bad guy. While Nick Love is renowned for his cockney gangster
offerings, unfortunately this time round he didn't think to bring
either a decent story or a coherent script to the table.

The Sweeney is somewhat enjoyable but it borders on parody far too
often. It's outdated and overplayed with enough product placement have
an accompanying catalog. It would have made a decent TV special but for
a big screen outing it's a meh from me.
<|_=00=_|>
I had limited expectations for this film. I was to be let down,
abysmally so.

From the start to the end credits this film is clich√© on top of
formulaic, unbelievable, over-the-top drama. I found my ability to
suspend my disbelief sorely tested and, after 20 minutes unable to
cope. Far fetched does not do it justice.

The characters were cardboard and again, straight out of a comic book.
Drew, Carter in the film, simply cannot act. Or, if he can, chose not
to in this film. His delivery is wooden. His lines devoid of feeling
and overall, I found myself wishing him to shut up.

The same with most of the characters. In the end I found that I could
not feel any empathy with the characters so when some inevitably fell
off the screen, I could not care less. 

Every line is plagued with an over the top cockney hard man thread. The
film tried too hard to be hard. Imagine Lock Stock that takes itself
seriously.

Considering this was the elite squad of the Met, famed for cracking
cases and bringing the fight to the criminals, it failed miserably. No
one could handle a firearm, the A-Team had clearly schooled them on the
range (10,000 rounds expended, no hits claimed)and tactics appeared to
be go on your own so you can be abducted, shot or otherwise
incapacitated.

In short, this should be watched on your TV. Indeed, where it should
have been released. Save your money and rent it one evening when you
have nothing else to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Here I have ten good reasons why you might want to see this movie.

1) If you want to see members of the police break the law, assault
suspects and any one else they feel like just to get answers to
questions and get away with it.

2) If you want to see someone who looks and talks like a fifteen year
old kid taking out a room full of 15 stone 6ft 4in Serbian gangsters on
his own without getting a scratch.

3) If you want to see a fat, bald, middle aged policeman having sex
with a girl his daughters age.

4) If you want to see a policeman almost kill a superior officer and
nothing is done about it.

5) If you want to see talent like Damien Lewis wasting his time in this
role.

6} If you want to see total disregard for authority and the law that
they carry on pursuing and killing the villains even after they have
orders from the top to cease all operations.

7) If you want to see the direct ripped off cut and pasted version of
the bank heist shoot out from Michael Mann's Heat transposed to
Trafalgar Square.

8) If you want to see police officers living in places merchant bankers
would struggle to pay for.

9) If you want to finally appreciate how good John Thaw and Dennis
waterman were as Regan and Carter.

10) If you want to hear the line "I want your gun and your badge". Nick
Love was obviously watching Dirty Harry on video when he wrote this
line into the script.

Those are the ten reasons someone might possibly want to watch this
excuse for a movie but only if you are male, over 40, still living with
your parents, on benefits, have no girlfriend, no job and collect DVD
box sets for a hobby. I am none of those things but I didn't have the
benefit of reading this review before I watched it. So if you still
want to watch it after reading this then you maybe need to evaluate
your life.

One reason why you certainly wont want to see this movie

1) All 10 reasons above (bar no 9) and a dozen more besides but I don't
have the time or the word limit).

Don't waste your money or your time on this like I did, you will walk
away feeling very empty inside.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember the original TV series with fondness, a low budget but
gutsy, urban, gritty cop show. If you've ever seen The Shield or Life
on Mars you have an idea of the kind of show it show it was.

What the makers thought they were getting from this show I do not know.
The title is the only thing this movie has in common with the original.
This is a very slickly affair with cinematography befitting a sic-fi
movie. The musical score is straight from Nolan's Batman, and most of
the action seems to happen in country lanes and yacht docks when it
should have been happening on the streets of London. The scenes that do
happen on the streets of London show a bizarre deserted version of
London I've never seen, not even at 3 in the morning. The story and the
acting are not worth mentioning.

The plot to the movie is straight out of an American action movie which
is a real shame. If you've never seen the original or even heard of it
then you probably think it's a passable action movie. However as there
was such an opportunity to do something uniquely British and original
here it is a huge disappointment. It just goes to show that Hollywood
are not the only ones that produce hackneyed crap.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, how bad was this. How did this nonsense ever get funding.

You have a policeman that actually acts more like a criminal than
anyone else, he is cruel, nasty, a bully and a murderer yet is somehow
portrayed as the hero of the piece. 

He wouldn't have lasted a minute and would have been arrested, shamed
and put in prison. You cannot just drive a car into a crime scene,
without identifying yourself clearly or actually reading people their
rights. Anyone arrested by this ragtag bunch of thugs would have got
off in 10 second and sued the police station for brutality.

The arrest of the chap at his farmhouse, for doing nothing wrong, was
ridiculous, wrongful arrest, police harassment and brutality, totally
unbelievable.

At the end I was so appalled by the actions of Regan/Carter I wanted
them and his whole crew to be killed. I was routing for the criminals,
which were more victims than any of the police were.

Oh and apparently if you don't like a colleague in the police, you just
verbally abuse him and then try to strangle him, which is acceptable
behaviour.

On top of this claptrap, you then have gun fights where no one hits
anyone and apparently wood has the same strength as steel.

0/10
<|_=00=_|>
Another shameless example of cashing in on middle aged people like me
wanting to be reminded of the "good ole days", and then this time
adding a current pop star to draw the youngsters as well.

Sadly, for all it's style and glam etc, it misses the cold hard mark of
the original. Winstone is no longer "hard", especially not when they
dress him in trendy gear - he just looks like a mid life crisis bloke
(better in a Crombie). Admire his ability to laugh at his ever
expanding gut, but he doesn't carry off the tough guy anymore.

Plan B is also laughable - although I recognise that he is obviously
trying, but it's not enough. And Damien Lewis is just a caricature that
is miscast.

Plus it is too long. I was almost asleep by the "climax".

They do try to introduce humour, but with one notable exception (face
in window) it just doesn't work.

And if the shooting accuracy of coppers and ex paras is reflective of
real life, then the crims and Afghans have got it made - this lot
couldn't hit a barn door with a banjo. And love 2 examples of a goodguy
taking cover behind something made of wood, which then gets shot
exactly where he is standing, and he's not hit(??????). Remarkable wood
these days.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one that Ray Winstone did for the money. When you think of the
much loved 70's TV series, there was always a good thread of humour
running through every episode, and they were always shabbily dressed
and living in run down flats or houses, which showed that the job came
before their personal comfort. This truly awful film has none of that.
Zero humour, they all look like catalogue models wearing the latest
"street" gear, and live in places that even investment bankers would
struggle to afford the rent on. Not one of them can shoot straight, and
the plot (correction, what plot) must have been dreamt up after a good
night out by an illiterate chimpanzee. Even Damian Lewis looks
embarrassed to be there. As has been said on a few other reviews when
they are being shot at with fully automatic assault rifles, they hide
behind doors & don't get hit! The car chases are below average (even
compared to the 70's series which had much less money to play with).
Ben Drew looks like he was reciting his parts of the script (if there
was a script) by autocue & as for the rest of the cast, you actually
wished that the bad guys would polish them all off, because they are
less than one dimensional and you certainly don't care a jot about any
of them. The one homage they did pay to the 70's was the revolting
sexism towards women. All the female cast members were there to look
good only & as for having Hayley Atwell cavorting naked with Ray
Winstone, I thought it was laughable and more than slightly sickening.
In short, don't waste your life even picking up the case of this when
it gets to DVD & avoid it like a rotting corpse.
<|_=00=_|>
Would love to give this good ratings, was hoping to.. But. 

Opening scene was beyond stupid. The bit in the middle was daft as
hell.

And the less said about the ending the better. 

Great acting, just very poor script and the director should go back to
film school.. (does a director not have any control??)

Note to writer/director.. Never give that kind of daft opening if you
want to be taken seriously.. 

Or daft ending.. 

Or daft middle bit...
<|_=00=_|>
A poor interpretation of a British TV Classic. The Regan and Carter
dynamic was central to the success of the original in this it takes a
backseat to the tedious affair between Regan and policewoman Nancy who
of course did not appear in the original series. Baby faced Ben Drew
looks like the singer of an Indie Pop Band and the waddling Ray
Winstone is far too fat to take seriously as a maverick cop and the
love interest of a woman 25 years his junior. The brilliant Damian
Lewis was woefully underutilised as chief inspector Frank Haskins and
would have made a far better Regan. John Hodge, co-writer, and Nick
Love, who wrote the screenplay, were children when the original series
aired so it's no surprise they managed to screw up the remake so
spectacularly.
<|_=00=_|>
The dialogue was fine and the acting was fine, but I don't believe that
an elite police squad, even London police, can be so incompetent.

Is it realistic that a group of police trained in the use of firearms
should not actually be any good in shooting those firearms? The action
scenes remind me of the old TV show, "The A-Team", where guns are
blazing but no one seems to get hurt. Or, rather, it would, except that
the bad guys have apparently been paying attention at the firing range.
Surely in a real police organization, people who couldn't shoot
straight, whose tactics were amateurish, who had no regard for public
safety, and who had difficulty with the idea of calling for backup,
should not be allowed out on the streets. More than that, I find it
incomprehensible that a training program would be allowed to exist that
produced such people as the end result.

As fine as the actors are, this movie does no credit to the UK police
service.
