
I went to a preview of this movie last night with my husband. I was
expecting the standard romantic comedy chick flick. Although there are
plenty of funny moments in this movie, it has an emotional depth that
is very appealing. It also has another really great performance by
Aaron Eckhart, who must be one of the most unappreciated actors in the
business. I'm no Jennifer Aniston fan, but I have to admit she's a
talented actress and not just a celebrity when I see her in a role like
this. Judy Greer and Dan Fogler are great in supporting roles.

It's difficult to say much about the plot without giving most of it
away. The script is full of the physco-babble you would expect in a
movie about a self help guru; sometimes it comes across as
intentionally silly, and sometimes it seems to have real meaning. There
are small revelations made all the way through the movie that lead up
to the final conclusion.

There is also unexpected eye candy in the form of beautiful floral
arrangements that contrast well with the gloomy Seattle weather.

I was afraid my 56-year-old husband would complain about driving 45
minutes to see a movie like this on a week night. But he also enjoyed
it, and there were no complaints. Most of the people in the theater
also seemed to enjoy it, although I have to admit that they didn't
laugh as much as we did. Not a "must see", but if you're looking for
some good entertainment, you could do far worse.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of this movie held a lot of potential but unfortunately,
Love Happens doesn't deliver as... not much happens in this movie. 

Aaron Eckhart, who seems to struggle not to be type-casted as your
average guy in light romantic stuff plays... Burke, an ordinary dude
trying to overcome his wife's passing by becoming a modern-day guru for
people who have lost loved ones. 

Jennifer Aniston, who basically embraces her career of being typecast
as a romantic interest in romantic flick plays herself once again. This
time, she goes by the nickname Eloise but she'll still be that same
single woman who's had a string of bad relationships and is till
looking for "the one".

Director/writer Brandon Camp doesn't give the character of Eloise much
substance, and seems content just to let Aniston do her usual work. He
seems to have focus mainly (in the script and on screen) on Burke. In
the first few minutes, it seems to work; Burke is an interesting
character. The self-help speeches are well-written, the pressure on
Burke's shoulders is felt. 

Unfortunately, much of the movie revolves around the relationship that
develops when Burke and Eloise bump into each others and begin to know
each others. Their interest for each others is uninteresting and lacks
credibility, in part because Eloise is so poorly sketched and also
because, as we learn to know Burke's real issues, it just seems...
wrong. 

And as the film goes on, it just gets worse as it seems Brandon Camp
doesn't understand the topic of mourning very well, and also seems to
send the message that using people as emotional crutches, getting
involved in relationships when you are not fully ready are good things.
Many scenes are almost surreal. Releasing domestic pets into the wild,
breaking and entering at your former in-laws, lying, magically curing
your sense of loss by shopping at Home Depot... I like quirky stuff,
but the mix of comedy, romance and the intense drama underneath wasn't
done very well. 

To top it off, the whole movie is wrapped in a sort of romantic
relationship that never happens, and played out with two actors who
have little to no chemistry together.

Aaron Eckhart is a gifted actor that should have no problem finding
roles, but as far as a lead, he's been slightly unlucky and needs to
select projects a bit more carefully or risk being type-casted in that
type of flicks much like his co-lead. 

For Aniston, this is the latest in a string of duds. As for Brandon
Camp, this isn't his first project tackling grief as he wrote the poor
Dragonfly (2002) and I shudder when I look at his next project,
Steinbeck's Point of View, which also seems to deal with issues of life
and death. 

I have nothing against writers who focus on certain issues, as long as
they master those issues well, which isn't the case for Camp.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that I did not think I would like this movie,
but it exceeded my expectations. I think what I liked the most about
it, was it was not your typical romance movie. I had heard before
seeing it that it was predictable and just like every other "chick
flick" but the truth is... it's really not. This movie had a lot of
depth, a lot of touching moments and yes, obviously romance. That being
said, this movie was more about finding the good in life and forgetting
all of the hurt and heart aches then it was about romance, although
that aspect of it is in there too. Aaron Eckhart is impossible not to
like and quite the eye candy. This movie also had some great songs in
it! Overall, definitely not too bad!
<|_=00=_|>
Every now and then, for reasons known only to itself, the movie machine
promotes a movie as being one thing when it is actually something very
different. Love Happens is a case in point. The trailer sells it as a
romantic comedy: it isn't. Sure, there are some smiles during it, but
it is actually a light drama dealing with bereavement and grief.

Aaron Eckhart is good in a role which stretches him rather further than
usual, and Jennifer Aniston is satisfactory in a part which demands
little of her than to look attractive, occasionally pleased and, more
often, rather puzzled. Martin Sheen is OK in a role which is
deceitfully sold initially as one thing but turns out to be quite
another. Judy Greer has a small, but entertaining role.

But pride of place must go to John Carroll Lynch with a strong,
sympathetic, and very believable performance in a supporting role.

I enjoyed this movie even though I felt that it was rather glib in the
way it dealt with some elements of the story (the resolution of the
relationship between Eckhart and Sheen for instance).
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I had the choice of seeing this movie and Jennifer's Body.So from
word of mouth I decided on viewing Love Happens because well it seemed
somewhat interesting.

I haven't seen many of Aaron's films either so I wanted to see how he
blended in with Jennifer Aniston.

The movie,yes a romantic one..perhaps and a little comedy,,minimal of a
few laughs I found to be a little boring.I thought Aaron did a good job
and got into his character,but somehow I lost Jennifer Aniston.I don't
know if words can describe how I felt after the movie.I mean it was
very touching to see Aaron's character open and tell his feelings and I
think most people can relate to that part of the movie.

I thought the movie was OK.I thought Aaron's character was
interesting.However,Jennifer's was just blah.

If you are fan of either I am sure you will be more amused than I was.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fairly surprised at just how unpleasant this movie was. The only
things I liked about it were Eckhart, some nice visuals, and the ever
so brief cameo of Gaeta from Battlestar Galactica.

About halfway through I started thinking 'this has the most product
placements since the remake of The Day the Earth Stood Still'. Then
they went to Home Depot to 'cure' a guy with a shopping spree. There's
hardly any romance in it at all, but a ton of advertising and even a
band I never heard of is given a lot of screen time that felt awkward.

Aniston looked either near asleep or downright miserable during almost
every scene. There are badly edited scenes like when they see her
mother; it had zero point.

I especially recommend that anyone dealing with any real emotional
trauma avoid this one. The cheap shots and ridiculously bland advice
given will only make someone feel worse.
<|_=00=_|>
I read all the bad reviews "Love Happens" received and convinced myself
that they were written by cynical, sensation-hungry reviewers who
prefer the likes of Anton Chigurh to wholesome romance. Boy, was I
wrong. "Love Happens" is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The
fault is entirely the script's. "Love Happens" script feels like a
rough draft a Hollywood wannabe would hand in at a weekend workshop.
"Love Happens" is completely incoherent. It never gels even into,
simply, a coherent bad movie. It just careens from a series of aborted
attempts to be a tearjerker, a romantic comedy, a trip through
Seattle's colorful coffeehouses, and a commentary on advice gurus and
their bestsellers.

There are some moments that feel like they might lift this mess off the
ground. John Carroll Lynch is both poignant and frightening as a
bereaved father who can't get over his son's death. We get to ogle
Aaron Eckhart's abs as he broods beside a beautifully lit pool.
Jennifer Aniston plays a florist; she reads a series of poignant cards
that accompanied bouquets. One character owns a pet sulfur-crested
cockatoo, and the bird is very pretty. Really, you grasp at straws
trying to find something to enjoy in this movie.

But then the movie decides to do something massively stupid and crude,
like set that sulfur-crested cockatoo, a bird from the Australian
outback, free in a foggy Pacific Northwest evergreen forest. It would
starve in days, everyone in the audience knows that, and you wonder why
the characters on screen do not. And you realize how idiotic this movie
is.

And what the heck is going on with Jennifer Aniston's character,
Eloise? Every moment Aniston was on screen, I was struggling really
hard to like or respect her. Her character is unlike any living female
I've ever met. She had the polished make-up and hair extensions of a
Hollywood power player, but she wore ugly scarves and seemed to
completely lack a personality. You can't really do that, Jennifer Â– you
can't be both obvious star and self-effacing girl-next-door.

By the way, Love does not Happen in this movie. Aniston and Eckhart
have zero chemistry. Blame the director. In their own ways, both of
these actors can be interesting, and had some sparks been struck
between them, this could have been a memorable film.
<|_=00=_|>
It's difficult for any serious movie-goer to enjoy this movie owing to
its sad lack of wit, convincing pathos or engaging characters. In spite
of the clear emotional resonance of the subject matter I found myself
feeling utterly apathetic about any of the characters or the shallow,
boring relationship formed between the two protagonists.

Aaron Eckhart is a sort of self-help guru (admittedly I do think that
whole industry is horrifically over-valued and generally feel nothing
but contempt for people who charge money for an audience to clap along
to their life story... but I digress) who's wife died in a car crash 3
years previously. His main purpose is to help people with the loss of
their loved ones except... he is still harbouring a secret pain
himself! Gasp! Actually not gasp: yawn.

Jennifer Aniston's character is difficult to describe owing to the
crippling lack of depth given to her persona... it's actually very hard
to recall a less exciting romantic lead in any film for a long time.
Whether the script was inherently poor in this respect or she simply
can't be bothered any more, it makes for painful watching.

And the film is woven around her character helping his character to
heal from his 'secret pain' while the two faff around on a few dates
devoid of chemistry or wittiness. Aside from a couple of giggles this
film is not funny and can't be called a Rom-Com... any attempts at wit
are very, very underwhelming.

And the ending is dreadful. Just dreadful. The scene in the auditorium
where the right character walks in at the right time and then the crowd
stand up and slow-clap? Lazy, lazy, lazy writing.

Positives? Eckhart is alright, the film is probably watchable if you
lower your standards and expectations a bit. But honestly, this is
better avoided.
<|_=00=_|>
My daughter and I used our "girls night out" to go see this movie last
night. We both loved it. We did have to use tissue for parts of it, but
it was still great. Very heartwarming and emotional movie. It is
refreshing to go to a movie with your daughter and not have to be
embarrassed by lots of sex scenes or foul language. (Even though she is
23, I still don't like watching that stuff in front of her.) This is
just a really sweet movie about 2 people finding each other; not
expecting to. I thought Jennifer Aniston and Aaron Eckhart both played
these characters very well! Martin Sheen is also great in this movie. I
would definitely recommend it for anyone to see!
<|_=00=_|>
This is an odd little film. More drama with romance than a romance (its
not really a romantic comedy). The plot has Aaron Eckhart as a self
help guru who is giving a seminar in the home town of his deceased
wife. He still hasn't processed his wife's death in a car accident and
is uncomfortable by the appearance of his wife's parents. In to the mix
comes Jennifer Aniston as a photographer to which he is attracted. Its
a touchy feelie weepy of sorts with a dose of romance added. Its not
bad but I'm really not sure what I think of it. Its good, but its easy
to see why it hasn't found an audience since the title is misleading
and its not to "rom com" it was advertised as.
