
Clive Barker's more sanguinary inclinations are paid tribute here
through a hulking golem, a malevolent meat merchant in his dapper best,
named Mahogany (Vinnie Jones) who smashes, eviscerates and cleaves
through unsuspecting commuters on the last train home. Adapted from
Barker's seminal anthology, "Books of Blood", the similarly named "The
Midnight Meat Train" is more than just an opportunity for some
sophomoric snickering over its title but one of Barker's most revered
short stories about a supernatural serial killer that ekes out
fascination, fear and obsession from a lone photographer, Leon Kaufman
(Bradley Cooper) stumbling upon the butcher's late night deliveries.

Director Ryuhei Kitamura (of "Versus" and "Azumi" fame) offers up one
of the year's most brutally alluring gore fests in his American debut.
With the gritty and detailed hard-edge of early 70s horror films (why,
hello there Lucio Fulci!), his flair for CGI augmented visuals and the
intense seduction of experimental camera-work in a cinematic
environment so increasingly sanitised of actual visceral terror,
Kitamura refreshes the genre's ability to unsettle and provoke
audiences and jolt jaded horror enthusiasts out of their PG-13 apathy.

Kitamura works with a modest but shrewd sense of space in the decaying
subway, the claustrophobic train and the creeping gloom of the city.
There's a certain simpatico between Barker's distinctive tone and
Kitamura's balls-to-the-wall film-making that compliments each other to
the benefit of the film's atmospheric resilience. The unvarnished
horrors cooked down deep in the gallows of the tunnels, plunged into
darkness form the basis of Kaufman's terrible fixation on the
disappearing passengers and that indescribably malicious man who stalks
the shadows. Mahogany is the film's myth, the legend of The Butcher.
Prepossessing the exactitude of traits essential to the character,
Jones has the nasty glint in the eye, the mysterious swagger of
indestructibility and the imperative of consuming evil, as well as
having the benefit of looking like the quiet guy in the corner of the
bar who could take out an entire gang of hoodlums without spilling his
drink.

Kitamura's modulation of the material's emotional stakes and his
slow-burn style of ratcheting up tension gives the story further layers
to plunge into, not withstanding Cooper's unlikely presence as the
film's corruptible protagonist. Jeff Buhler's screenplay from Barker's
25-year-old story is uneven at times but keeps an atmospheric dread of
hopelessness. Supporting characters include Kaufman's wife (Leslie
Bibb), a counterpoint to the man's wavering sanity and a threadbare
characterisation of his good-humoured pal Jurgis (Roger Bart) who
stands to represent Kaufman's humanity. But even if these emotional
contrasts don't work, the film itself is a tidy and effective
meta-slasher that resonates beyond corporeal carnage. Kitamura's
subtextual ingenuity is shown through macabre imagery of animal
carcasses hanging off meat hooks as Mahogany tenderises, disembowels
and stores his victims just like the morsels of flesh they are.

Clive Barker's fantastical and mad blend of visceral shocks and
profoundly unsettling explorations of worlds coexisting and buried deep
within the one we think we understand has become an important component
of our contemporary literary and filmic universes. While "The Midnight
Meat Train" never hits the spasms of metaphysical despairs in
"Hellraiser" or the diabolical mind-warps of "Candyman", this is
forthright horror  simple, powerful and unadulterated.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie just now at a local discount theater, and I certainly
can't say that I wanted my dollar back. The worst thing a horror film
can be is boring, and Midnight Meat Train is never dull. Neither is it
quite as exciting or tense as would be ideal, but you take what you can
get. 

Based on Clive Barker's classic short story, the film is about
photographer Leon (Bradley Cooper), who wants to capture on film the
"true" New York City. He has to sell photos of crimes and accidents to
tabloids for money, though. He is given a meeting with a legendary art
dealer (Brooke Shields), and accepts her advice to explore individual
places more closely, in hopes of finding the image that impresses her
and gets him a break in the art world. 

He ends up encountering strange doings during late-night subway rides,
and becomes obsessed with a silent, severe butcher (Vinnie Jones) who
bludgeons passengers to death on a regular basis.

The movie works mainly because of its director. Ryuhei Kitamura might
be the best visual stylist working in the horror genre. The scenes of
suspense, intrigue, and horror are all inventively shot, while never
distracting from what's actually going on. His timing of scares,
however, could use some work. Jeff Buhler's script has quality dialog,
good pacing, and is generally efficient. 

The greatest weakness of the film is its lead actor. Cooper lacks the
charisma and intensity necessary to involve the audience fully in
Leon's descent into the underworld.

But I said before, it is never boring. The time passes easily, blood
flows freely, but only when it needs to, and it is a joy to look out.
It deserved a much wider and better promoted release, and is certainly
worth seeking out.
<|_=00=_|>
That was the funniest line in the movie, and sadly the movie is just
OK. I was upset when I heard that Lions Gate was going to dump this
flick on DVD. I even wrote Joe Drake an email pleading that it get a
regular release. (he's probably laughing at me right now) I stood in
line with a butt load of folks to see the midnight screening last night
at the Nuart in Los Angeles. I stood next to the director. I was
standing near the writer too (who seemed either drunk or stoned when he
first walked in, but then, maybe that's just how he is on the regular).
I was excited. This was the one time it would play in a theater near
me.

I saw it.

A couple of problems for me.

1. Pacing. There seemed to be scenes that slowed the story down and
derailed the momentum. I wanted to feel like the protagonist was
spiraling into a world that he should not have knowledge of, and yet he
is drawn to it like a moth to a flame. Perhaps more editing. Especially
the love scenes.

2. The Girlfriend. Men, please stop making women in your movies cliché,
shrill and annoying. There were forced love scenes and quite frankly,
the actress added to the slow pacing. She should've been proactive and
supportive of the leads journey into hell. And do we need to see women
falling down while running away YET AGAIN?! Conflict is essential in a
story, but it should be natural conflict that pushes the story forward,
not contrived and coming off as nagging. Every time she came on screen
I just waited for her to get off screen to get our guy back into the
story. Side note, I thought Brooke Shields should've been the chick.
She was great. Cold. Calculating. The type that would push her man
further into the pit. That's the woman the lead needed, and he got the
stereotypical girly-girl. Boo!!!! 3. The Butcher. He was creepy, but I
felt that we shouldn't have seen him fully until halfway through the
movie. The scary moments in any film is the fear of not knowing. In
this movie we got glimpses of the Butcher, creating tension and fear
for Kaufman. But soon after we see him fully as a regular human who
kills people, it moved from horror into a slasher-suspense movie. It
should've been more than that. The supernatural element should've been
pushed more with The Butcher. The short story presented something epic
and ancient in scope. The Butcher was a necessary job that had to be
done to keep The City running. Once the film became a simple
slasher-gore fest (which is not bad in any movie as long as the story
works with it and we care about the leads), the Butcher just became a
run-of-the-mill serial killer, no different than Jason, Michael Meyers
or Freddy Fruger. Those guys did their killings for revenge. The
Butcher has to kill to keep order in the human world. Just like ancient
Greeks and Romans and other cultures that made human sacrifices to
appease the Gods, an offering if you will.

That was the reveal in the short story. In the movie, he just kills for
some nasty monsters we barely see at the end. Bad! The Butcher had
noble work to do. Nasty work yes, (like any butcher in real life who
kills the meat for society to consume. Most people eat burgers and
steaks without thinking about what has to be done to the animals that
provide that great meal. Please, go visit a slaughterhouse.)but it must
be done for the rest of us to survive. This movie missed that point at
the end.

4. Some of the kill sequences were just there to see how cool the CGI
effects could be done. It stopped being scary to becoming typical Eli
Roth/Saw 3-5 schlock. How many cool ways can we kill a person? Horror,
to me anyway, should be horrific, not funny. Once it becomes funny at
the expense of not really scaring people, then you've lost me. Granted,
one of the funniest lines in the movie was when the subway train
conductor tells Kaufman (after the train has ended its run) "Please,
step away from the meat." The humor is surreal and it works at that
moment because of the banality of the line. The conductor could've been
saying, "Please step away from the ramp/shoe/dog etc". The conductor
has a job to do, and so does the Butcher, so please step away from our
work. Classic.

All that said, the movie is a mixed bag. I'd be curious to see what
Clive Barker had to say. The film looks great, nice atmosphere, set
design etc. I might've recast the two leads, but I'm glad I got to see
it in a theater. I had the opportunity to get a real movie experience
with the film.
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie i must say. Its been a long time there comes a movie that
hits you in head. I mean literally. This is perhaps the most
under-rated horror movies of the 2008. The reason might be the gruesome
violence and the nature of it. Surely this is not for the faint of
heart. The movie has a great storyline and the more you see you more
you are involved within and you have to see the ending. I won;t comment
much on the story. You have to see it to believe it. But i will say
that it is not to be missed. and trust me you will think twice
travelling in subway at midnight after watching this great piece of
horror genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Mahogany (Vinnie Jones) is big bad butcher, whose weapon of choice is a
mallet and an ice hook. Day after day, night after night he takes the 2
am train to hell, where unsuspecting passengers are massacred and then
hung up like dead meat.

Leon (Bradley Cooper) is an up and coming photograph, who is trying to
make it critically, but so far his work has been unable to break it.
His biggest fan and believer is his beautiful fiancée Maya (Leslie
Bibb). One chance session in the subway changes the direction of his
life. First he photographs a model being harassed by some thugs and
after saving her from them takes a picture of her entering the 2 am
train...

Clive Barker has really been prolific with all the horror he has caused
come to life on the big screen. It is enough to mention that his
stories was the backbone of such classics as Hellraiser or Candyman.
That said he has also been raped as a horror writer with atrocities
such as Rawhead Rex.

This movie doesn't hit the highs or the lows, but I must say it was
pretty decent and definitely one of the best genre movies I have seen
lately. No matter has essentially idiotic the plot I have to say it did
cut loose of the copycat phase in horror cinema we are currently at. It
had a certain freshness to it not only in the way it was told, but also
in subject matter itself. I won't go as far as to say it was
breakthrough original, but it was darn intriguing all the way through.

I normally rate a good horror movie based on gut feeling. The moment
you can't wait to know what will happen at the end of the movie or in
the next scene for that matter and at the same time you have to fight
with yourself to continue watching - that lets you know this horror
flick is actually pretty good.

Definitely full of flaws and the graphic gore isn't my kind of horror
meal. Acting was great and tech credits all round were superb. Ryûhei
Kitamura deserves accolades for this horror movie. Maybe not a classic,
but given the far fetched material he had to work with it is a triumph.
<|_=00=_|>
Given that this month's the Lunar Seventh Month where the Chinese
believe that spirits roam our world as their month long vacation from
purgatory, my friend has so far kept this running joke about my
unfortunate bumping into them given I spend my journey home on late
night buses and trains. The Midnight Meat Train, as the title suggests,
tells of the last train in the system where passengers inexplicably
disappears, and I thought that Japanese director Ryuhei Kitamura
managed to put a somewhat refreshing spin to the entire slasher and
torture porn genre.

Based on a short story by horror Meister Clive Barker, the story in
parts looked like horror thrillers with recognizable moments like those
in The Terminator, Shutter, and of course, Jeepers Creepers. If I were
to have to take the last train, I definitely wouldn't want to bump into
Vinny's sharp dressed Mahogany, a character who is almost like any
other Vinny Jones character of being the muscle-man. Here, he's a
butcher with a penchant of waiting for the last train, and armed with
nothing more than knives, meat hooks and his personal favourite, a meat
tenderizer, he proceeds to chop up unsuspecting victims as the train
seem to speed off into the unknown.

And there's where the story becomes intriguing, as it poses a lot of
questions and doesn't provide you with any clear answers, until much
later. You have to endure a slow buildup of Leon the photographer
(Bradley Cooper) who in his quest to take the perfect picture for an
exhibition, chances upon Mahogany and follows him for that Kodak
moment. His girlfriend Maya (Leslie Bibb) and best friend Jurgis (Roger
Bart) also get into the fray, and soon life for all three will be
irrevocably changed. The payload for the movie comes at the back, and
my, it's as satisfying a wrap as it can be, though again for those
already familiar with some of the mentioned films, you'll more or less
expect things to be done the way they did.

As mentioned earlier, what was a refreshing spin, was how direct and to
the point the acts of violence got, without dragging the scenes out
with needless, extended cries of mercy or lingering on gratuitous
scenes of gore and blood, which torture porn flicks seem to continuous
bog their movies with, that it becomes boring (Yes, I think you can
sense that I'm already de-sensitized to such scenes). Rather than
trying to craft creative ways to die in order to go one up against
other movies that came before it, The Midnight Meat Train really went
back to basics and simplicity, where killing blows are delivered
swiftly, before proceeding with dismemberment.

While it is disturbing in itself, the distributors decided to shield
local audiences from such violence and gore, and hence we got a
censored M18 rated version, instead of full regalia under the R21
rating. The cuts were jarring enough, but in all fairness the quality
of the movie cannot be judged by just how those scenes were removed
with a butcher's knife. Going by detailed descriptions of the level of
graphic violence contained in the movie, it seemed that we suffered
from having a lot cut off.

The movie also boasted some really effective scenes of tension, and the
anticipation of ill will especially with Vinny Jones looming nearby.
The last time I remembered watching a major action sequence involving
trains was in Batman Begins, and given that it has to live up to
titular expectations, audiences were treated to some incredible all-out
action scenes set in and around the train, with some really energetic
camera movement and angles to complement the action on screen.

But technicalities aside, what really worked and will possibly elevate
this film to cult status, will be portrayal and fleshing out the
character of Mahogany as the no-nonsense and swift executioner, adding
to the list of memorable villains to have graced the screen amongst the
likes of the Freddies, Jasons and the Michael Myers of the cinematic
world.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, how bad can it get. This was seriously bad. Not in terms of the
gore - which was mainly laughable CGI - but in acting, atmosphere and
direction.

The story was dreadful - the character arc of the main lead was a total
joke. Within a few nights of stalking Vinnie Jones, he starts to become
'haunted' to the point of crying when photographing his girlfriend.
Um... are all New York photographers this childish, suggestible and
weak? His character development had absolutely no justification or
point whatsoever - and by the very end you'll be laughing out loud at
the utterly predictable, and totally absurd twist his character takes.

The gory moments were clearly just a weak, low-self-esteemed effort to
jump onto the modern MTV style gore wagon - all cgi, blood yet no real
emotion whatsoever. These parts were unintentionally funny - and
distracting by their self-consciousness - wacky camera angles etc.

Overall this film commits the crime of blowing another potential idea.
What could have had atmosphere (until the stupid monsters at the end)
is ruined in favour of 'look at me'style self-conscious directing. This
film wasn't made for and audience - it was made for a CV - a deeply
selfish motive.
<|_=00=_|>
A frustrated photographer named Leon (Bradley Cooper) is assigned by
ambitious owner of art gallery named Susan (Brooke Shields) asks him to
improve the quality his pictures.Leon neglects his waitress fiancée
(Leslie Bibb) and roams the undergrounds at night in search of
something rare and actual. Then he finds a strange and silent
meat-packer (Vinnie Jones) at the last midnight train. After that, Leon
goes to the Police precinct but the Detective Hadley(Barbara Eve
Harris) doesn't believe him.

This frightening movie displays terror, shocks, hard-edged drama , and
creepy images . While the look is suitable atmospheric and eerie, the
argument stretches plausibility to the breaking point. This is an
acceptable Clive Baker adaptation of the short novel with same title.
The picture is full of suspense,thrills, mystery, and lots of blood and
gore .This slick gore-feast is a triumph of style over movie logic.
It's packed with overwhelming body count, excessive gore, grotesque
killing, and rivers of red blood. The picture is smartly designed
,stylishly photographed filming in shades and lights . It
packs,tension,suspense,chills,horror and lot of blood and gore
including slitting the throat,attempted rage, slicing ,stabbing, all
courtesy of excellent craftsmen. They create a creepy make-up of
horrible and bloody images. The gutsy murders are gruesomely executed
and equally are ghastly graphic .The film is constituted by some well
done horror set pieces with creepy and spooky atmosphere.The
butcher-murderer appearance deliver the goods with hair raising chills,
full scares and scary frames.The story is borrowing from the original
short story by Clive Baker who has several cinematic adaptations, as
¨Nightbreed¨, ¨Lord of illusions¨, ¨Hellraiser¨ and ¨Candyman¨ with
their uncountable sequels. Thrilling musical score with frightening
sounds and appropriate cinematography with dark atmosphere by cameraman
Jonathan Sela. The motion picture is skillfully directed by Kitamura.
Rating : Acceptable and passable Clive Baker rendition that will appeal
his followers.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like this movie. I really did. Even though I know
most of the stories Clive Barker writes that become movies are usually
crap, I hoped this one would be different. It wasn't. It was crap.

The thing that really ruined it for me was the AWFUL CGI. There is a
scene where an eyeball flies through the air- it looks like something
from an old Sega CD game. So obviously CGI. Did that flying eyeball
absolutely need to be in the movie? No. It did nothing to the scene
other than ruin it.

What was with the boils that Vinnie Jones was cutting off and putting
in jars????? Did I miss the explanation for that??

Also, you can only suspend your disbelief so much. In this movie, you
are supposed to believe that hundreds of people (if not thousands) have
been going missing over the years, all of them being seen last in the
subway, and only 1 cop is assigned to the case? And that cop is able to
keep ALL the other cops in the city from investigating any of the
disappearances? Come on! That is just ridiculous.

Why did Vinnie Jones have to work in the abattoir? Was he short of
cash? Did the "monsters" think he needed a taste of working class
America? 

Why did he dress in a suit to go to work in the abattoir? Was he just
trying to look cool?

The cameraman, who takes crappy instagram-worthy garbage, is
pretentious and annoying. As is the stupid gallery owner woman, and the
cameraman's dumb friend "Jurgis". 

What kind of name is that anyway? Call him Bob or something. Any
character who has a name like that, you just want them dead as soon as
possible because their name makes you hate them instantly.

This movie is awful.

One of the worst movies I've seen in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
Where to start. The film started out pretty well, but after the 30 min
mark i caught myself watching the clock. The horror at the start of the
film was good but then the story kicked in. It just got stupider and
stupider as time ticked by.

The actors gave an average performance in this movie however, i got a
bit bored of Vinny Jones constant scowling in the film.

As the film dragged on, and take my word for it, it dragged on, it just
got more and more far fetched.

*** SPOILER ALERT *** SPOILER ALERT *** SPOILER ALERT *** Just when i
thought the film could not get any worse, towards the end loads if
skeleton looking monsters turned up, just to eat the dead people which
made no sense at all. It turned out to be some sort of flesh eating
cult and the good guys die at the end. The ending in fact just made me
laugh at how bad it was. Once the lead role disposes of Vinny Jones, he
becomes the new killer.

In closing, this film made Creep look like the best horror film ever
made. I gave it 1 star because the female lead did a pretty good job
but even she could not save this train wreck of a movie!!
