
I watched How to Train Your Dragon about 5 times now, and it never gets
boring. It actually keeps on getting better and better with with more
and more views. This is a huge accomplishment for DreamWorks Animation,
it might actually be its Best Animated Feauture it yet. It is an
amazing experience to watch this film in Cinema. The 3D is amazing and
at times Breathtaking. I may of had the most fun that I've ever had in
Cinema watching How to Train Your Dragon.

The script is really good and is has a lot of dramatic depth. This
movie is for everyone. Adults and Kids will enjoy it equally and will
love it at the end. This movie will probably become a series like
Shrek. But I'm hoping this film doesn't get bad sequels like Shrek 3
and Shrek Forever After. Anyways this film will be most recognized for
its beautiful animation.

10/10 Highly Recommended
<|_=00=_|>
incredible! certainly the front runner for the best animated film of
the year. from the first to the last frame this film is as good as an
animated film gets on almost every level. beautifully written, designed
and executed. though an incredible movie, it's not quite perfection -
probably due to time and budget limitations (is there ever enough of
either?). that said, the problems i had are far too few to mention. if
dragon doesn't absolutely slay at the box office i'll lose faith in
middle America. 

congrats to the filmmakers - you've made a masterpiece and you made me
feel like a kid again. thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
HTTYD is the latest in a run of animated 3D films to hit the family
market. One might be forgiven for feeling a little weary of this genre
as the big production studios churn out one "action-packed film with a
cute central character and some pretty effects" after another. But
wait...

HTTYD stands apart from these other attempts for a number of reasons.
First, the 3D (Odeon digital in this screening) is moving more toward
the subtle with fewer "gratuitous" 3D moments than in movies like Bolt
and Coraline. As 3D becomes a staple of high street cinema, directors
seem to be finding 3D to be more about adding depth rather than a brief
focal-point. That's not to say that there isn't effective use of the 3D
wow-factor here; it's just not all the film has to hold attention.

Second, a cast of voice talent that does not demand too much
consideration of the man/woman behind the microphone is refreshing.
Baruchel is not over-playing the sugar or the heroics and, as much as
an animated character can be, he is believable and as three-dimensional
as the visuals. Butler is not greatly stretched here but manages to
stay just the right side of a Mike Myers impression so as not to annoy.
How many kids will now think the Vikings were a fearsome race of
Americans and Scots? Oh, well! 

Third, the plot and dialogue. You may not know the plot and I won't
spoil it now. It is straightforward stuff but the pace keeps it
interesting for kids and the grown-ups. Younger children may be upset
at times and I heard a sob or two at the emotional moments. Nothing too
heavy here though, it's just a well-written script with as many actual
laughs as I have seen in a kids' film.

This is one of the best films so far in this prolific genre and it has
been made with passion rather than thrown together to cash-in on the
thirst for these films, right now. I would urge all ages to see this
film in 3D as the textures are extraordinary and you can't help but be
charmed by it all.
<|_=00=_|>
If this is done following the same old beat up formula that Hollywood
sticks to with regards to animation, then the dragons will be yakking
non-stop. Thank goodness that this film, directed by Dean DeBlois and
Chris Sanders, avoids this like the plague, and 

Jay Baruchel voices Hiccup, a viking kid who happens to be more brains
than brawn, more scrawny than buffed, and this of course sets him apart
from the rest of his warrior clan folks, who are battle scarred from
the constant defense of the village pests - dragons who come from afar
to plunder their livestock and setting their houses on fire, so much so
that every house on the block is relatively brand new. Wanting to help
out in any way he can, he's deemed more of a liability than an asset,
especially when even his dad Stoick (Gerard Butler) cannot appreciate
his unique, technical talent.

In a stroke of uncanny luck, Hiccup downs a flying dragon in the heat
of battle, and his compassion meant to set the dragon free, rather than
trying to prove himself to be a worthy viking man by killing it. And
it's a rare specimen of a dragon too, which would have brought him
instant glory. So a bond between man and mythical beast gets struck,
and christened as Toothless, this is one pest who slowly grows into a
pet, with Hiccup's secret rendezvous resulting in growing appreciation
for the species, despite what the knowledge that his kinsman had
compiled into a Dragon compendium which details facts all ending with
an advisory on compulsory annihilation.

The story here is the strength of the film, being witty, smart but
never condescending nor insulting the intelligence of the audience.
While most characters are caricatures, especially Hiccup's peers, a lot
of effort have been put into creating the leads as multi-dimensional
and full of heart, and I enjoyed how the characters are so open to
their emotions, that it becomes a lot more real than the photo
realistic 3D animation and effects. Sure there's the usual father-son
misunderstanding and expectations, and how a zero turns to hero, or
even the theme of fearing something that we don't fully comprehend, but
it's the manner in which the usual got delivered, that made all the
difference. Especially so for its anti-war stance, that all it takes is
a little step back from the common battle-cry, and instead seek to be
understood, by holding out an olive branch, and to understand first.

For those who enjoy the mythology of the dragon creature, there are a
number of ideas thrown up in the film that would make you nod in
appreciation how these got conjured up for the film, and they worked
wonders, even though they may be a tad predictable plot wise. And I'm
betting that a lot of folks out there will take to Toothless, thanks to
its "stitch"-ish design similar to Lilo and Stitch (since it's
co-director Chris Sander's previous work) and huge saucer like eyes,
plus a lovable demeanour built into the character that's always
apprehensive, and mischievous. Being the creature that has no track
record also helped, since it ropes you into a journey of friendship,
bonding and discovery with Hiccup as to how powerful his new found
friend can be, not to mention how symbiotic their relationship will
evolve into as well.

Action junkies will find the action sequences in the film faultless,
and the 3D got specifically crafted for certain set action pieces that
really had me ducking for cover, for once. Fights are incredible, and
always accompanied either by humour that worked without the feeling
that it was deliberate nor just tried too hard, coupled with the
comedic voice talents such as Jonah Hill and Christopher Mintz-Plasse.

How to Train Your Dragon is similar to last year's Cloudy With a Chance
of Meatballs - Long titles, great story, beautiful animation and a
total delight. Highly recommended, and it goes into my list as
contenders for best films of this year!
<|_=00=_|>
I am not at all interested in dragons and all such fantasy creatures. I
don't like children movies with all their stupid messages. I saw this
movie rather just to pass the time than to watch it for its sake. And
Whoa! I was drawn in this river in first 5 minutes. And what a
experience it has been! Right from the start as the narrator describes
his world, you are immediately there. You feel yourself in the
characters place. The movie does that for you. This is very uncommon
movie and it has set a milestone for 3D, not because of its technical
aspects, but because of the Depth this movie has. This movie is as much
for a 7 year old as it is for an old man who has seen a lot of life.
This movie will entertain each viewer in his own way. This is a
masterpiece! This movie isn't what it sounds on the surface. It has
layers of meanings attached to it. Look at just the title: How to train
your Dragon!. If you see it carefully you will notice that there is
more to it than meets the eye. Watch the movie and you will know what i
mean. This movie cleverly comments on Human Fear, War, Friendship,
prejudices, courage, Love. ........................... Don't miss this
movie or you will miss one of the few periods when you really LIVE.
Note: Just remember to carry your heart with you when you see this
movie. It will fill your heart with nothing but what should truly
belong there. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer and I enjoyed it but I was afraid that all the good
parts from the movie will be there and that will be all, like it was
with many films lately. That was certainly not the case. There are way
better parts that were left to be discovered and I definitely
congratulate the choice.

I didn't read the book, so I don't know the story, witch might have
suffered, as stories usually do from books to picture, but I think a
writer couldn't hope for a better image, better portraits of
characters, especially the black dragon who one definitely falls in
love with - the mimic and the gestures and the face expressions, so
complex and real. 

I agree it's not the kind of movie that makes you keep thinking too
much once it's finished bot it's not meant to be. It's just lovely,
from the beginning to the end, I really laughed and I was anxious for
the characters when they suffered (and I'm 22). The film wasn't too
long, it didn't have stupid lines whatsoever and it put to silence the
annoying child behind me from the first five minutes or so, which I
believe says it all.

I don't know if I will actually go to the cinema but I definitely want
to see it again. 

Great special effects and, again, a very lovely dragon.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film in early March, of 2010 in Indianapolis. I am one of
the judges for the Heartland Truly Moving Picture Award. A Truly Moving
Picture "explores the human journey by artistically expressing hope
and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland gave that award
to this film.

It's in 3-D and it's gorgeous animation. But what really matters is the
story. And it's a good one. At first it seems the main story is about a
Viking colony equally distant from nowhere, which is being constantly
attacked by a wide variety of marauding dragons. It's a full time job
trying to keep the dragons at bay and the Viking warriors are often out
on their boats hunting their wily and ferocious opponents.

But really the story is about a father and chief of the Vikings who has
a young son, Hiccup, who is small and who is a slick, sarcastic talker
and who doesn't take orders well, but still seeks respect from his
impressive father. At first, his Father will not let his son be a
warrior Viking, but later relents to have Hiccup train with the other
youngsters. But the young boy gets sidetracked and instead of wanting
to kill dragons, the boy befriends them and seeks to understand them.

A young and inexperienced son seeking approval of a strong father is an
often-told tale. Sons often act foolishly trying to impress their
fathers. And fathers often ignore the strivings of their sons. In this
case, there is honor and courage on all sides and it is inspiring to
watch the father and son wrestle with their relationship.

And yes, about the dragons  they ARE ferocious and talented and
aggressive warriors. But their motivations are a mystery that unfolds
slowly. And that's the fun of this film.

FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either
at the theater or available on video.
<|_=00=_|>
Hiccup a young Viking befriends Toothless, a young dragon. This is the
best movie I've seen since the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. Virtually
everything about it is wonderful. Rarely have I been so drawn in to an
animated movie. The 3D aspects are thrilling and the movie has a great
story, amazing animation, non stop action and a positive and
constructive message. It made me want to go out and get a pet dragon.
This movie is perfect for people of all ages. Now I know what a feel
good movie is. This movie will make everyone feel good. Congratulations
to all who contributed to this amazing film. It will make toy dragons a
popular gift item. Hope to see it again and again. 3D at it's best.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the best films I've seen with my family.

The characters came to life and was instantly hooked.

I've young children and they hardly flinched throughout. The draw to
the screen was virtually magnetic.

A definite must see for all the family, and the 3d version bought it to
life, totally!!

The story was well written, even though I must admit the start was a
bit slow, but all in all well done dream-works. You've another winner
on your hands here.

p.s. can't stop talking about it, and its been a week since I've seen
it- I can see Oscars in the not too distant future.
<|_=00=_|>
With a somewhat unwieldy tile and the lack of the winning Pixar
storyline that has dominated the Oscars for a decade, Dreamworks
animations latest could have been a clunker. Not only is How to Train
Your Dragon the best film of the year so far, but it even eclipses the
quality of last years duel academy award winner Up.

The latest 3-D film to fly into theatres in so many weeks is also the
best of its format (story wise), making Burton's overblown misfire
Alice in Wonderland look even more pitiful. Dragon will no doubt
enamour kids (excuse the cliché) of all ages while keeping parents not
only awake but equally enthralled. This movie is sure to tug the hearts
of anyone who has ever loved a pet and will undoubtedly draw tears from
those who are so inclined.

The texture that can be created from today's CG technology never ceases
to amaze. Consider a beautiful tracking shot of a downed dragon where
the twisted wing that protrudes towards the screen is actually out of
focus, as if you yourself were staring awestruck at the giant lizard
that lay before you in real, tangible life. I did not have the pleasure
to viewing How to Train Your Dragon in 3-D but I have heard great
things and even without having paid a surcharge the film does in no way
suffer as a result. The narrative, visuals, writing and voicework is
ample reason to seek out Dragon and frankly is the real heart of the
movie anyways.

On the Island of Berk, the Viking community that lives there does not
fear a rival tribe, the weather or disease but rather a much more
toothy threat: dragons. Nightly raids by the winged beasts have forged
a great hatred upon the tribe and led by the aptly named Stoik the Vast
(Gerard Butler) they wage war with the intent to rid themselves of
dragons once and for all. This is not a feeling shared by Stoik's
scrawny son Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) who favours non-lethal tactics as
much as he does blacksmithing. Much to Hiccup's surprise, during one of
the aforementioned raids he is able to down a dragon with one of his
contraptions. Intent on proving his manhood to Stoik, he seeks out to
find the dragon know as a Night Fury but finds himself unable to slay
his scaly foe. So begins an unlikely and forbidden friendship with the
later named Toothless that follows a time-tested but absolutely
rewarding arc that is as enthralling as it is touching.

Joining Butler and Baruchel, both of whom give excellent performances
(with Butler recapturing some of his 300 mojo), are the likes of Craig
Fergusson as the Viking blacksmith, America Ferrera as the feisty
object of Hiccup's affections and a whole slice of the Apatow gang
including Kristen Wiig, Christopher Mintz-Plasse and Jonah Hill as
other young warriors. Much like WALL-E, Toothless exhibits oodles of
personality and is endlessly endearing. To achieve this level of depth
is perhaps even more impressive due to the fact that he never utters a
word and must emote through non-verbal means.

Along with Kung Fu Panda this movie represents the highest ilk of the
Dreamworks repertoire and that is not a backhanded compliment by any
means. Like Panda, there are thrilling and well choreographed action
sequences to compliment the heart, and plenty of humour to keep this
from becoming too much of a dramatic slog for younger theatre goers.
Teenager or adult, fan or animation or not if you like truly good
cinema, you will not be unsatisfied by How to Train Your Dragon.

Read all my reviews at simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
