
There is nothing more reliable than Eastwood behind the camera, with
his assured touch his films are never boring or deliberately confusing,
hiding technical devices or special effects that detract from the most
important part of movie making: a good screenplay, a good story, good
acting. For the past 10 years, many films have been unduly praised
because they have one or two great performances, unfairly leaving many
good and deserving movies without the recognition they deserved.
Eastwood has however, given us the whole package time after time, with
movies as varied as "Mystic River", "Letters", "Million Dollar Baby"
and now "Changeling". True, there is a link, they are all strong films,
with themes that deal with pain and loss, but the stories are
different, the settings require an amazing attention to detail, what
they all share is a strong focus, and interestingly enough, superb
performances.

Eastwood has paved the way to acting honors for Penn, Freeman, Swank,
Hackman, and others that were continuously ignored by the Academy.
There is no denying the power of their performances in Eastwood's
movies, and that leads to the center of this film: Jolie. I read
recently that her performance has been attacked as being affected and
the attempt of a star to look normal. Putting aside those silly and
biased remarks, let's state something clearly, the lady has given us a
fantastic tour de force, proving that she can be both a star when
looking at the other cameras, but that when she is working for a
director, she gives her best, regardless of what our perception of her
private life might be. If you are a critic with a personal disapproval
of that persona, keep it to yourself, concentrate on the film and the
work of the performer.

As the mother who desperately wants the truth about her child, Angelina
is flawless. We can read the pain in her eyes, the determination and
the disturbing reality that her obsession might be having unexpected
results, but one thing is clear, there is a drive that won't quit, and
it's admirable for those of us who want her to be reunited with her
child, and it's quite inconvenient for the people who have other
interests at hand.

Her battle with the folks at LAPD is of epic proportions, and it is
amazing that she held on to her goal of exposing the corruption that
she encountered as she searched for her missing boy. There are some
horrific moments in the film, as we relieve some of the injustices and
Gothic horror of places like the hospital in this film. There are also
some background scene that might or not reveal what really happen.
There are moments when one is a bit exhausted from all the information
the film delivers, but every moment is worth it. It is all framed with
an expert hand, and it is anchored by the very powerful work by Jolie
and the rest of an amazing cast that brings to life emotions such as
madness, anger, pain, sorrow, and many times, disbelief that humans can
be capable of such terrible actions.

The film contains amazing production values, as we are taken back to an
era that doesn't exist anymore. The recreation of the time Los Angeles
was on its way to being a real city is incredible, as we see it before
it fell apart and spread all over a gigantic geographical area, losing
its identity. The musical score is a sweet melody that hints at the
love and pain themes in the film, and there are some moments bound to
become classic, as children tell the stories that adults might not want
to face or believe.

All in all, "Changeling" may be very difficult to sit through, but it
is not less impressive, effective or good than any of the last five
films Eastwood has made. As a matter of fact, it's just one masterpiece
from the man who could teach Hollywood a few lessons.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching this film is like taking a look back in time. Everything is
picture perfect, the beautiful automobiles, the red electric street
cars, the telephones, the switchboard station with roller-skating
supervisors, the house appliances, and the outstanding clothing, from
dresses to hats to police uniforms, everything is meticulously
detailed. The story, which we are told is true, is complex and
multifaceted. Angelina Jolie, who plays Christine Collins, gives an
outstanding performance as a single mother who returns home from work
to find that her son is missing. This puts into motion a series of
events that exposes the reality of what Los Angeles society was really
like in the late 1920's. Corrupt Police, uncaring and self absorbed
mental health professionals and the basic premise that people left to
their own ambitions will do anything to secure their own prosperity.
Although this paints a bleak picture of the human condition, the film
show that the actions of a few good men can make a world of difference,
John Malkovich as Reverend Gustav Briegleb, is determined to expose the
corrupt Police in his radio talk show, Michael Kelly as detective
Lester Ybarra, although hampered by his superiors, uncovers what really
happened to the boy and the unlikely hero, a powerful attorney who
takes her case pro-bono comes to her rescue. If indeed this is a true
story, then to see these people stand up to the powers that be is a ray
of hope to all of us that there were people who were strong and
principled. We can only hope that there are still people like that out
there today.
<|_=00=_|>
Changeling - In 1928, Single mother Christine Collins (Angelina Jolie)
returns home one day to discover her nine-year-old son, Walter, is
missing. She calls the police and, after enduring a grueling 24 hours,
they search for her son. But the boy they return to her is not her son.
After confronting corrupt city authorities, Collins is vilified as an
unfit mother and sent to an asylum.

This is a grueling film to watch. I have not felt this hideous since
North Country, a film which also dealt with misogyny within the power
structure. Women are treated as fragile, emotional, and not believable.
This film tackles corruption to boot, as the LAPD is accused of being a
gang of thugs that answer to no one. Eastwood is old school with the
violence, understanding that the mind can fill in the very brutal gaps.

Angelina Jolie delivers another great performance. But unlike A Mighty
Heart, this film actually deserves her presence. I don't think she
really should have so much press coverage, but there is definitely
reason for her acclaim as an actress. The situation her character goes
through is so surreal and the film captures it perfectly. It gives you
chills from the second Christine is given this pretender to raise and
rarely lets up. And if for one moment you tell yourself "It's just a
movie" as I tried to, this s*** actually happened. Characters were
composited or changed, a disclaimer at the end states, but the events
were the same.

An odd praise goes out to Jason Butler Harner, who plays Gordon
Northcott, a kidnapper and murderer of many children. He has played one
of the monsters of everyone's nightmares to perfection. Also of note is
Jeffrey Donovan for his portrayal of J. J. Jones, corruption
personified. Jones is a man able to whisk people away to asylums with
no need of warrants. Scary indeed.

Changeling shares a theme with several of Clint Eastwood's other films.
Unforgiven and Flags of Our Fathers come most readily to mind. His
lesson concerns truth and lies, and exposing the hypocrisy of
falsehoods for want of the truth. The truth is rarely pretty, but
generally preferable to lies, and will often come to surface, if given
enough time. I doubt I will watch this struggle for truth for a long
time to come (it's not one for casual viewing), but it's a very good
film.

A-
<|_=00=_|>
Christine Collins: "The boy they brought back is not my son."

ClintEastwood s knows a good story, and he knows how to tell it on
film. Not everything he does is as powerful as his depiction of a
dynamic female boxer in Million Dollar Baby, for which Hilary Swank won
a best actress Oscar among four for the film. In Changeling he presents
another strong woman, Christine Collins, played by the notable Angelina
Jolie. Because she is directed to weep at almost every turn and
regularly underplay her grit, Jolie won't win accolades, nor will
Eastwood rack up the nominations as he frequently does in Oscar season.
But his adaptation of the historic Wineville Chicken Murders chills
with his perceptions about the capriciousness of crime and the
determination of those who choose to fight it.

In a Prohibition-era 1928, Collins gets word that the Los Angeles
Police Department is returning her kidnapped eight-year old son. When
she sees him at the station, a finely directed sequence showing the
forces of motherhood and politics clash, she knows it is not her child.
LAPD, needing the good publicity, forces her to take the boy overnight
with the logic that she is merely in shock. The rest of this overly
long thriller carefully traces the discoveries leading to resolutions
and disappointments. Along the way, police corruption is exposed,
mental institution incarceration of women is laid bare, and grisly
serial murdering is slowly detailed.

Yet in this discursive narrative, Eastwood indulges himself beyond
Jolie's annoying crying by gratuitously laboring over the details of an
execution. The stark San Quentin setting is ghastly and the villain
worthy except for the film's obvious criticism of false mental
institution lockup, ironic here because this murderer is clearly
deranged enough to be determined unfit for trial.

As in every Eastwood production, the values are first-rate, in this
case period costuming and vehicles (those Model T's and trolley cars
are beautiful). As in Mystic River, Eastwood knows how to splice family
and community together in the struggle against organized crime, from
street violence to public service malpractice. The activist preacher
Reverend Briegleb (John Malkovich) helps bring the worlds together in
his radio broadcasts, Malkovich for once playing good well. Eastwood
continues to be the director of choice for depicting crimes and
heartaches that strike the common citizen at will. 

We all should be as productive in our later years. May he extend well
beyond his golf-playing days and into our future.
<|_=00=_|>
Changeling is the new film from director Clint Eastwood. It is based on
a true story that takes place in 1928 L.A.

The story is about a woman who returns home one day to find her son
missing. Then a few months later the police return a child to her, but
it isn't her son. The woman keeps on telling everyone that this child
isn't her son, but the police keep on claiming that it is her son and
are calling the woman crazy.

The film is a wonderful study about police corruption in L.A. in the
late 1920s. The film is emotionally gripping, and at times disturbing.

The film was superbly directed by Clint Eastwood, who was working from
a terrific script by J. Michael Straczynski. Not only that, but
Eastwood also wrote the film's score, which was very good as well. Of
course the acting is what truly stole the show for me. Angelina Jolie
delivers an Oscar worthy performance as the mother of the missing
child, but what truly surprised me was how good these children in the
cast were. All of the child actors were very well cast and all
delivered amazing performances.

As a whole Eastwood's Changeling is one of the best films of the year,
and should be up for some big-time Oscars at year's end.

A perfect 10 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
Summary says it all, this is the most challenging film so far of 2008.
Deep and daring, Clint exposes corruption within LAPD in this period
piece. Brilliantly executed and finally a performance I appreciate from
Angelina. Also stellar performances by John Malkovich, as well as Amy
Ryan, Jeffrey Donovan, Michael Kelly, and others. This film drives it
home which any parent can appreciate and will remember for some time.

This is not your typical drama, but also a suspense filled thriller
that had people in the theater crying, clapping, and closing their
eyes.

Still need to see The Wrestler, and The road, but as of October 2008,
CHANGELING best picture, and very possible, Best Actress Angelina
Jolie.
<|_=00=_|>
Angelina Jolie, for outstanding performance in Changeling.

Wow, I think I need to calm down a bit. I was skeptic at first to see
this movie but I don't regret spending 900 króna's (I'm from Iceland so
that's very expensive) on a movie ticket to see the best movie I've
seen in a long time. And I encourage everyone to do the same, go see
Changeling.

This movie has everything; a terrific story based on true events,
outstanding acting from everyone of the cast, excitement, tears, blood
and it holds you tight until the end. And I won't forget the magic
behind the camera provided by the genius Clint Eastwood.

Angelina's character is terrific and she fights, what seems to be at
first a lost fight, for her son in a world controlled by men. You learn
to hate some characters in the movie and love others. You learn to feel
for Angelina's character and hope the movie ends well. Changeling will
make you cry and when you walk out of the theater after this fantastic
film you feel both good and satisfied.

Angelina was so good and convincing in this movie that I could not
believe my own eyes and ears. And John Malkovich was very good too but
Angelina is the rock of this movie. She carries it on her shoulders and
Clint Eastwood directs her like...like...I don't know what to write
anymore, I'm still calming down. I'm going to stop now and finish the
review with these two sentences: If Angelina Jolie gets an Oscar
nomination for her acting she deserves to win. Just go see Changeling
and Angelina's acting will blow your mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Clint Eastwood's newest project, Changeling, is sort of awesome, sort
of annoying. The true story of Christine Collins, a telephone operator
and single mother in 1928 Los Angeles, has a promising script and cast,
but fails to accomplish any major feats on screen. At times the dialog
feels forced. For example, when Jolie adds an ambient "Sport" moniker
or makes references to Cleopatra. It's as if Eastwood is saying to the
audience "Yes, this really is 1928, I promise." Historical accuracy is
important in a film claiming truth, but Changeling is a bit like
scaling a wall there is not much to hold on to.

But what little there is to hold on to is both enjoyable and
sophisticated. Angelina Jolie, who plays Christine, gives a convincing
portrayal of a mother who returns home from work to find that her son
Walter is missing. In fact, Jolie might have scored a career best
performance with Changeling, but it is hard to say whether or not this
is enough to carry the film.

Jolie holds her head high as a mother who loses her son and receives
little help from the Los Angeles Police Department during the search.
The 1920s were wrought with scandal for the L.A.P.D. and Christine
Collins find herself in the midst of them. After months of search, the
police return Walter to Christine only to find that she denies that he
is her son. Despite the mounting evidence supporting her claim (her
Walter is uncircumcised, the new Walter is not; the new Walter is 3
inches shorter, etc.), the police continually deny that there is
anything wrong. Because of the recent scandals, the L.A.P.D does not
want to admit any wrongdoing with the Collins case.

The tone of this story seems to border between over-the-top melodrama
and a dead-on homage to 1930s dramatic style. This is most notable in
the scenes featuring Captain J.J. Jones (Jeffrey Donovan) whose
performance is cookie-cutter bad cop for the period. Eastwood navigates
the "bad cops" with ease and never allows them to become satire, but it
borders on the edge. Likewise with the necessary court scenes in the
latter portion, Eastwood makes the material work, even if just barely.
It is hard to diminish the negative affects of these melodramatic
choices, but then again, it is a story about true events. Who am I to
say whether or not the courtroom proceedings actually had that much
fervor and zest? It is hard to find fault in conceivable truth.

Another strong performance in the film comes from John Malkovich as
Reverend Gustav Briegleb, a man determined to expose the misdeeds of
the Los Angeles Police Department via his radio show. Briegleb vows to
help Christine in her quest for her son as he believes that "Walter" is
not the same boy. Malkovich gives a convincing role as a man of God, a
man of principle, and a man of determination. He plays the hero, but
never saddles up his white horse. His heroics come naturally as a man
who wants the best for his city and the people within it his mission
is never glitzy, never self-indulgent.

Malkovich and Jolie together save the one part of the film that could
have poisoned the entire piece. When Miss Collins refuses to be quiet
on the issue of her son and is convinced by Briegleb to go public with
the misdoings of the police, she is whisked off to a mental ward. Until
she admits that she is making the whole impostor-son bit up, she will
remain in the ward. The mental ward scenes were in complete discord
with the rest of the film. The inclusion of stereotypical elements like
electro-shock therapy and evil nurses allowed these scenes to toe the
line of ridiculousness. If it were not for a convincing and levelheaded
performance from Jolie, nothing good would have come from these scenes.
And when Malkovich's character swoops in to save her from the grips of
the ward and the police, it never once feels trite. Eastwood should
really thank these two and consider the possibility of never, ever
filming any hospital-like scenes ever again.

The unsaturated color choice for the film gives an immediate feeling of
doom and sadness for the picture, but a more upbeat, stylized look
might have complimented the film better. The cinematography attempted
to mirror the motif of the film but ended up missing the mark and
falling more into dark and muddled than stylistically relevant.

With the film clocking in a 140 minutes, it is impressive that it never
feels that long. Eastwood navigates through a significant chunk of time
with little duress and manages to take on a troubling story without
being all too troubling. Easily an audience favorite and definite
Oscar-bait, as the United States release is set for November under the
title "The Exchange." This film is mass of "in-betweens." It is neither
complex nor simple; neither heartfelt nor underwhelming. I find it hard
to love it, but I do not hate it either. That's the problem: nothing
clicks. It is within this realm that I find this film, more than
anything else, a tad bit frustrating. It is a virtuous attempt and no
doubt going to do well both in box office numbers and with awards. But
because of that, I wanted more punch. I wanted more zing, more
attitude. The film melts quickly in my mind and becomes just another
biopic that might soon be forgotten. A little originality is crucial,
especially for a film being considered for the Cannes Film Festival's
highest honor. This film leaves me generally satisfied all whist
thinking, "Come on, Clint. You could've done better."
<|_=00=_|>
Clint Eastwood is one of the legends of the silver screen, from his
humble beginnings as the Man With No Name in Sergio Leone westerns to
Dirty Harry the kick-butt cop. As a director, he has given us some of
the finest stories we could ever see, including the Oscar-winning
Unforgiven, Million Dollar Baby, and the war epic twins Flags of Our
Fathers and Letters From Iwo Jima. With his new film, he explores the
dark side of the earlier part of the twentieth century in Tinseltown
(Los Angeles). Taken from true events, the story unfolds that a single
mother Christine Collins has lost her nine-year old son, Walter. She
asks the LAPD to intervene, and about two months later, her son is
returned. Then, she says it isn't her son. She never looks back.

From the moment the young boy steps off the train, Christine insists to
everyone that he is not her son. Unfortunately, the police say she is
delusional and just upset. The films leads to the truth of the matter,
which is that the corruption in the department has led to them being
lackadaisical in their duties. The story moves along fluidly, yet we
are never really told the reason that corruption resides.

Nevertheless, the film is quite an experience. It looks terrific and
really feels like the 1920s in Los Angeles. Angelina Jolie is solid as
Christine, yet I felt she seemed more whiny at times than desperate. It
just didn't move me as strongly as Hilary Swank in Million Dollar Baby.
The supporting cast is good as well, especially John Malkovich as the
pastor eager to help Christine in the fight against the LAPD. What I
really wanted was that emotional pull that Eastwood's other films had.
This one seemed a bit cold and ruthless, despite that being its subject
material. So, I would say to go and see it; it is definitely worth the
140 minutes. As for Oscar time, I can't say for sure that it will wrap
up the big ones such as Best Picture, Director or Actress. It wasn't
the strongest campaign I've seen, but then again this has been a weaker
year than 2007.
<|_=00=_|>
You must go see this movie. YOU MUST GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!! I'll admit I
didn't know what to expect when my wife asked me to go to this movie.
And of course having Jolie in it she didn't have to twist my arm to
much. We had to go out of town to see it because our local theater
wasn't showing it. The acting by Jolie was great. Eastwood's direction
was great. And the 20's and 30's look to the movie was so realistic. I
learned some things about this time frame by watching this movie. So
not only did I enjoy the movie I learned a little bit along the way.
This is a Rated R movie so I wouldn't take kids to it because there are
a couple disturbing moments in the movie. If this movie doesn't get
some Oscar nominations I will be very surprised. GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!
