
I will start by saying that I have enjoyed many Adam Sandler movies and
have found him to be a generally funny guy when I've seen him
interviewed and when he was on Saturday Night Live.

I laughed gleefully through Anger Management, Mr. Deeds, Billy Madison,
50 First Dates, and Happy Gilmore. Funny People and Just Go With It
were awesome movies! I was brought to tears in Sandler's emotional
portrayal in Reign Over Me.

I have great respect for the man as a comedian and actor. But Jack and
Jill is abysmal. The "jokes" are not only bizarrely misplaced - THEY
ARE NOT FUNNY. I did not hear a single laugh, not even a slight giggle
from any audience member in the theater. In fact, almost 1/3 of them
walked out before it was over. Those who stayed, openly derided the
flick as we all exited the theater in utter disgust and sadness.

I don't know why Al Pacino was in this movie, his acting made it seem
like he was forced at gun point to do this movie. Nick Swardson and Tim
Meadows are way too funny to be in such a disaster. Especially given
Swardson's stellar performance in Just Go With It.

This movie is not a flop, its not an "oops", its not a mistake - it's a
career ending pile of trash. A career ender that started with Sandler's
god awful "Grown Ups" and climaxes with this revolting hunk of garbage.

Sorry Adam, it's over.
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason I went to see this atrocity was because my nine year
old daughter really wanted to see it and I'm able to get through some
of these terrible movies (i.e. Zookeeper) because she's having fun
throughout the movie. Even though she enjoyed the movie I was counting
the minutes until it ended. Every scene, every line every moment of
this 'movie' was unfunny, awkward, unrealistic (even for an unrealistic
movie) and seriously unentertaining (not a word I know). Just when I
thought the movie was over, it makes you sit through these stupid clips
of real life twins saying 'funny' things about being a twin. IT LASTS
THROUGH TILL THE END OF THE CREDITS! This movie is meant to hurt you
for paying to see it. Even worse than Old Dogs....seriously!
<|_=00=_|>
The standard that Adam Sandler movies has set is pretty low, but even
with such low expectations going to the movie, the movie still felt
terrible. The gag is twins and ignoring that healthy identical twins
with different genders is impossible, we get to see Adam Sandler dress
up as a woman. And, we get to see Adam Sandler dress up as a woman a
lot, ridiculously lot and so much so, that Jack Adam Sandler and the
rest of the cast are just supporting actors to the almighty squawking
of Jill Adam Sandler.

We could say this is just Adam Sandler up to his usual antics but Jill
Adam Sandler hogs up the screen time and nothing about her really makes
any sort of logical sense. There is Al Pacino as himself who falls for
Jill, a possibility that the writers explain away as madness or nervous
breakdown of Al Pacino. Then, there is Jill who is loved by the kids
and Jack's wife Erin (played by Katie Holmes) for reasons that Jill
doesn't portray on screen and we are never shown, all we are shown is
the mean and manipulative Jill. The Jill that Adam Sandler portrays is
his own immature rendition of a woman, filled with toilet humor and
displays of uncharacteristic skills and strength as positive
attributes. Jill is portrayed uninteresting and vacuous though written
differently, and that being the center of the movie makes the movie
uninteresting and tiresome.

The movie would have been an acceptable Sandler movie if Jill had been
played by a woman who could actually portray a big heart. The previous
Sandler movies were enjoyable movies, but Jack and Jill is a real
stinker, barely watchable. The only thing I found interesting was the
background opulence of everyone around, thrown around so casually that
it really feels like the big guys involved in the movie have severely
lost touch with their audience and given way to sloth where they think
anything they do is magical. Avoid the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a pre-screening of this film the night before it opened to wide
release. I knew going in that it was not going to be an excellent film.
But, I thought, there would be a few laughs and some funny moments in
it. I was terribly mistaken. 

Adam Sandler was terrible as 'Jill'. We were supposed to believe that
the character was actually a woman. All I saw was Adam Sandler in a
dress with a stupid voice.

The character of Jack is unlikeable and mean, almost to the point where
you wonder how he has any family or friends.

Katie Holmes, which I usually enjoy watching in films, was a non entity
in it. Her character was one dimensional and boring. She might as well
have not been there at all.

Al Pacino, why did you do this movie? He is an amazing actor with
amazing credits to his name. But this? Really?

The jokes were pointless and not funny. I'm really tired of 'fart'
jokes. Been there, done that. Not funny. 

The only funny part of the film was Jack's son, he had a couple of
funny lines. Basically the only time I laughed was when he was on
screen doing something.

If I had paid for this movie, I would have walked out to get my money
back. As it was, I sat finished my popcorn, pop and thought, "Free
tickets were too expensive to be here." Do yourselves a favour, skip
this movie and do ANYTHING else.
<|_=00=_|>
Jack is a highly successful director of television commercials. For
Thanksgiving his outlandish twin sister Jill (Sandler, again) comes to
visit. Despite efforts to get her to leave, matters get complicated
when Jill catches the eye of famed actor Al Pacino, whom Jack needs to
convince to star in a commercial I guess. What Jack and Jill is really
all about is Sandler's effort to exact revenge against moviegoers.

Drag is not a good look for Sandler, and it should be no surprise that
he is unfunny as a woman. The jokes featured in Jack and Jill have the
range of an infant golfer. Committing to a viewing of Jack and Jill is
almost a misogynist effort. All manners of humiliation beset Jill. She
takes damage to the head, gets groped, has her skirt looked up, and if
the sound is telling she may even have her bowels destroyed. Pure
class, that Adam Sandler.

So not only is Jack and Jill an offensive PG comedy, it's structurally
broken. Jill appears on the scene way too fast, in under five minutes.
No build up to her arrival, no clever use of music from The Cars from
what I can gather Sandler's favorite bandfor her reveal. Jill also has
a tendency to run off into the woods, which at first is random. Lastly
for what is billed as a holiday movie, Chanukah is glossed over through
a montage and I'm not even sure how Thanksgiving lasted as long as a
dinner scene.

It's obvious that Pacino has no business being in this film, but what's
really at stake are the remains of Sandler's reputation. If Sandler
ever wonders why he can't get an Oscar nomination, all he has to do is
look back at the selfish decisions he has made. Jack and Jill is not a
script, or even a concept, that deserves a read. It's like a fake movie
found within Funny People that was replaced with the more imaginative
"Merman". Yet, Sandler turned it into a movie that will surely pay him
upfront over $20 million. 

The awesome mess that is Jack and Jill is so wrought with issues that
this reviewer can only stand to offer some bullet points for the lesser
offenders. Katie Holmes is in this movie. David Spade is a better woman
than Sandler. Jack has an adopted son whose entire bit is taping found
objects onto his body. 

The character of Al Pacino has a line that inadvertently summarizes
Jack and Jill. After watching his cheesy song and dance number in a
Dunkin' Donuts commercial, Pacino turns to Jack and says, "This needs
to be burned."
<|_=00=_|>
I sincerely wish I could erase this film from my memory. I love Adam
Sandler, and yes, he's had a couple of bad films but this one is so bad
I believe his career might actually end because of it.

The constant shrieking of Jill is unbearable, and were we really meant
to take Sandler's female character seriously? Or was this film only
meant to be "funny" because Sandler's in drag? I've still not figured
that out, and I don't think I'll devote much more time to doing so.

This film led me to create my IMDb account because if what I've said
here can keep even one person from paying to see it then I feel it will
have been worth writing.

Cheers.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it me, or are Adam Sandler movies getting stupider with each passing
one? Oh sure, Sandler's sense of humor has been pretty dumb from the
beginning, sometimes in an enjoyable way. But lately, his movies seem
to be reaching for a lower form of humor than I even knew existed. I'm
guessing it won't take long until we get a movie comprised of nothing
but Sandler sitting on the toilet and belching for 90 minutes straight.

But, I'm here to talk about Jack and Jill, a stupefyingly dumb comedy
that places Sandler in a dual role as both an uptight ad executive and
family man, as well as his loud, obnoxious sister. The movie was a
miscalculation from the start. Seeing Sandler dressed in drag and
talking in a whiny voice probably would have been pushing it in a three
minute sketch back in his Saturday Night Live days. In a 90 minute
movie, the performance is excruciating. Was there no one around to stop
him and tell him the performance, and the character in general, was
just a bad idea? No one to say that it just wasn't funny? Seeing a
movie like this makes you want to sit Sandler down, and make him watch
his performances in Punch Drunk Love, Spanglish, Funny People, and
Reign Over Me to remind him that he is so much better than this.

The plot (such as it is) concerns Jill (the sister) coming to visit her
brother Jack and his family for Thanksgiving. She's only supposed to be
there for a few days, but she extends her vacation time, and winds up
staying almost to New Years. During that time, we get a lot of toilet
humor (much more than a PG-rated comedy aimed at kids needs), a ton of
product placements (How much did Dunkin' Donuts pay to get their brand
worked into the plot of the movie? And would it have been better for
business if they had just stayed out of the movie all together?), and a
lot of celebrity cameos that include Sandler's friends, as well as some
big names cashing a paycheck. The cameos in this film include David
Spade (in drag, no less), Dana Carvey, Johnny Depp, Regis Philbin, John
McEnroe, Shaquille O'Neal, Drew Carey, Christie Brinkley, and Bruce
Jenner. Oh, and then there's Al Pacino.

Yes, I said Al Pacino. Only he's not making a cameo, he's a main
supporting character. He plays a caricature of himself as a raving
oddball who speaks gibberish in order to fool people he can speak other
languages, and becomes inexplicably attracted to Jill when he happens
to meet her at a basketball game. Jill has no interest in Pacino, but
Jack's ad agency wants to hire the actor for a Dunkin' Donut campaign,
so he tries to bring the two together. When Jill further resists, Jack
is forced to dress up as his sister and be seduced by Pacino. But never
mind. The important thing is Pacino gets the film's only laughs,
because he tackles the material head-on and with full passion. He
obviously knows this material is stupid, but he gives such an energetic
performance, you sometimes find yourself laughing, even if what he says
isn't that funny. Say what you will about his decision to appear in
this movie, but he earns every cent of that paycheck when he appears in
trash like this.

Outside of Pacino's off the wall performance, I can't say I laughed
very much at Jack and Jill. The movie's just not that funny. Don't tell
that to the guy who was sitting two rows behind me at my screening,
though. Every tired pratfall, every loud fart that blasted on the
soundtrack, and every knock to the head caused him to erupt in
extremely loud fits of laughter, stomping of feet, and slapping his
knees. I wanted to ask him what he found so funny about the movie. Most
of all, I wanted to be enjoying myself as much as he was. That's
obviously the intention of the movie. It wants to make us laugh and
forget our problems for 90 minutes or so. That's admirable. But it
fails on both counts. My guess as to the reaction of the man sitting
behind me? He's been locked away somewhere for a very long time, and
has never seen a movie in his life.

I won't go so far as to say that Jack and Jill is the worst comedy of
the year, as there's much worse out there. But, it's certainly one of
the most annoying. This is the kind of movie where the filmmakers
started with the idea of Sandler playing brother and sister, and then
stopped there, not developing the screenplay, characters, or the jokes.
Considering that the initial idea wasn't that hot to start with, maybe
they shouldn't have even gone as far as they did.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie with my girlfriend and to be honest wasn't
expecting much. But man is this movie awful. None of the "jokes" if you
can call it that were funny at all. Some actually cringe worthy. If you
want a quick answer then here it is: don't waste your money don't see
this movie! To elaborate The character Jill should have been played by
a female actress for one thing. I realized that was part of the gag
that Adam Sandler played both parts so they would be identical but
really it just makes the movie worse. Sandler's interpretation of a
female voice is so bad and annoying it makes you want to punch him in
the face to shut him up. This is one of those rare movies where I
actually wanted to get up and leave the theater. And I haven't seen a
movie like that for a while.
<|_=00=_|>
What in god's name has made the great Al Pacino THIS desperate? Now, no
one on this planet would ever go into an Adam Sandler film expecting
something brilliant, but generally, at worst, his films are stupidly
entertaining. However, his latest film, "Jack and Jill" is so
astoundingly horrible, I am not even sure how to articulate how truly
bad it is in a way I will capture the remorse one will feel for having
spent money to see it.

I went to the premiere, so all it cost me was (a thankfully short)
ninety-three minutes.

This time around, Adam Sandler plays a commercial producer whose twin
sister, also played by Sandler, comes to visit and...and... You know, I
am not even going to waste time describing the plot of this film as
it's not ever important enough to bother mention, but it involves
cameos by all sorts of (evidently desperate) people from Sandler's
impressive rolodex...including Al Pacino.

Yep, Sandler's rolodex is the only impressive thing to note about this
film.

If you have seen the trailer, you have seen any and all even remotely
noteworthy moments from this otherwise act of tedium. It is not funny,
it is not clever, it is not even so bad, it's tolerable. Every single
thing about this film is beyond grating.

Seriously. Up until now, the year's worst film was "Red Riding Hood."
This film makes that one seem like an artistic stroke of genius. I was
uncomfortable just watching it as I wondered what every single why
every single person on screen did in their lives to agree to be a part
of this...train wreck. Hell, even a train wreck deserves curiosity.

AND on top of all this, it stars KATIE HOLMES. That alone bears noting
that if you are dumb enough to still see this film, make sure you have
nothing lethal within arm's reach.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this is the worst movie I have seen so far..I don't even know
where to begin..It was a mess: the acting was more than bad-I have seen
Adam Sandler in other movies before,and I think that so far this is his
worst performance, not to mention Katie Holmes..and I don't even want
to get started on Al Pacino..( How on earth could he accept such a
role?). The storyline is almost non-existent-to be honest,it was pretty
hard for me to figure out what exactly was going on in this movie..I
realized after watching the trailer that this isn't going to be the
movie of the year,and I watched it thinking that it will be the kind of
movie that is so bad it's good..Well,it's nothing like that: I couldn't
find anything funny about it,on the contrary, it was ridiculous,
awkward and quite annoying at some points-I felt really uncomfortable
watching this.Although it was supposed to be a comedy, there was no
humor in it, the supposedly funny acting turned out to be dull and
awkward, and the cheap and flat jokes made it even worse..Don't waste
your time and money on this one..
