
The Hurt Locker is a serious character study and a taut, suspenseful
action thriller at once.

The subject matter itself - the work of a bomb expert, possibly one of
the most nerve-racking jobs on the planet - yields most of the suspense
but Bigelow manages to squeeze out every bit of tension of the premise.

This film to me was very apolitical - though set in Iraq, it is
distinguished from most of the Iraq-themed war films in that it
concentrates much more on the job itself than the political
environment. Iraq seemed more like a backdrop - any other war would do,
The Hurt Locker does not preach about this one specifically.

The story is deeply emotional, depicting a thoroughly disturbed
individual's life in hell. Jeremy Renner gives an incredibly powerful
performance as an EOD officer completely hooked on adrenaline stemming
from his everyday close shaves with death.

All aspects of film-making are top-notch, from the brilliantly
subversive screenplay through vivid cinematography, masterful directing
and perfectly paced editing.

In its storytelling the filmmakers wisely break with traditional
Hollywood narrative techniques. There is no clear antagonist, no rising
action, no obvious character development and no climax. And yet the
film manages to be more interesting, tense and suspenseful than any
Hollywood action thriller I've seen in years while making a powerful,
yet subtle statement about the insane addiction that is war. Kudos for
everyone involved for making this film without compromising.

This is pure quality, cinematic storytelling at its best, a thinking
man's actioner.
<|_=00=_|>
I spent the entire film grabbing the arms of my seat. I was there in
Irak, steps away from my death and the death of those around me. The
tension, the suspense is at times breathtaking, literally. "The Hurt
Locker" is a miracle and the definitive consecration of a great
filmmaker, Kathryn Bigelow. This is also a rare occasion in which I
went to see the film without having read a single review or knowing
anything about it. One should try to do that more often because the
impact of the surprise translates into pure pleasure and in this case,
sometimes, you have to look away from the unmitigated horror. Jeremy
Renner is a real find. He is superb. A kind soul, wild man with enough
arrogance to make him appear reckless and yet his humanity precedes
him. People may commit the mistake of avoiding this gem thinking that
it's just a war film. Don't. It isn't. It's a great, engrossing film
about human emotions, not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
Kathryn Bigelow concocts a masterpiece of a film without tricks or
gimmicks, at least none to be detected and that in itself is a triumph.
Realistic yet poetic like the works of the great masters. It enters and
fits a genre and at the same time is unique, unexpected. It shutters,
moves and alters every sense, like a powerful drug. I saw it last night
and I'm going to see it again tonight. Last night Jeremy Remmer came to
speak to the audience in a face to face moderated by Sam Rockwell,
great idea but it change my perception of Remmer in the film, of his
character. Although he praised Kathryn Bigelow, he said things like "I
don't tell her how to direct and she doesn't tell me how to act"
Watching the film I felt that childish arrogance belonged to the
character by his personal appearance showed it belonged to the actor.
In any case, it works on the screen. A character you warm up to almost
immediately in spite of his contradictions. Remmer will remind you at
times of Robert Redford and others of Michael J Pollard. He is truly
terrific so try to avoid his personal appearances not to contaminate
that impression. The rest of the cast works wonders and the brief
cameos by Guy Pearce and Ralph Finnes are the most organic and
unobtrusive cameos I've ever seen in my life. All in all extraordinary.
I predict, even if we're only in June, that Kathryn Bigelow risks to be
the first female director to win the Academy Award. She certainly got
my vote.
<|_=00=_|>
I am truly sadden that this film got bashed so much. I hear reviews
saying this film "sucks" or it has too many inaccuracies. Movies like
Saving Private Ryan and Schindler's List have also "some" inaccuracies
in them. (They are Masterpieces) It is pretty sad this film has been
getting this bashed. It doesn't deserve to be.

The Hurt Locker is full of suspense and is directed beautifully by
Kathryn Bigelow. I'd have to say this is movie truly captures the Iraq
War. What a dangerous war it was for our soldiers. This movie shows us
what our soldiers went through. This isn't bashing the American
soldiers at all or even War. It gives us a great deal of appreciation
for our troops who are risking their lives every single day for Us,
Freedom and the U.S.A.

The true purpose of this movie is to not just praise the soldiers. But
for one of the military's unrecognized heroes which are the technicians
of the bombs squads who risk their lives to save others. This is the
purpose of the movie to let everyone know what these people do.

This time and I know all of you out there, don't want to hear it, the
critics are actually right. This movie is fantastically directed by
Kathryn Bigelow and she rightfully deserved her Oscar for best
director.

I know many Avatar fans out there probably rated this movie a 1,
without even seeing it because it won Best Picture and Avatar didn't.
This movie seems its suffering from the curse of Best Picture. More
people have watched Avatar than the Hurt Locker. So of course this film
has gotten bashed by so many. I think SOME of the bad reviews are the
Avatar Fanboys who are just angry Avatar didn't win Best Picture.

Please don't just go along with the bad reviews this film has gotten
from IMDb. Just try and watch this film.

The Hurt Locker is a war epic, that I hope it becomes appreciative as
time passes. 9/10 Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
For the life of me I can not understand the blind hype and devotion to
this totally unbelievable movie......and I think I have the
qualifications to say so.... I am a former Special Operations soldier
with 14 years in the "lifestyle" ... This movie was totally totally
unreal and obviously written by someone that did very little research
into life in the Army, in combat or at a team or platoon level.

Three EOD guys trouncing around Bagdad on their own????? Get Real... No
chain of command????? Get Real... EOD clearing buildings??? Get
Real....EOD/ Military Intelligence / Sniper qualified buck sergeant????
Get Real.... Wait... I shot and killed a bad guy and then let two guys
take me without firing another shot or being injured at all???? Get
Real....I carjack an Iraqi civilian, while I am only armed with a 9
mil, break into another civilians house, get punked by his wife then
make it back to camp on foot in the middle of Bagdad at night without
as so much as a scratch or confrontation???? Get Real...

There is absolutely no adherence to military protocol {Army} and no
resemblance at all to any Army unit that I have even encountered.
Totally unbelievable and disrespectful to the men and women of EOD who
contrary to this poor film are not wild adrenaline seeking yahoos but
extremely qualified professionals doing an incredibly hard job.
<|_=00=_|>
Simply put, action ace Kathryn Bigelow's "The Hurt Locker" is a near
masterpiece of suspense and unrelenting intensity.

Her first film since 2002's "K-19: The Widowmaker," The Hurt Locker is
definitely a return to form from the director of probably the greatest
(in this man's humble opinion) surfer-action movie of all time "Point
Break." The film follows Bravo company, a team of bomb technicians
situated right in the heart of the Iraq war's modern IED warfare.
Jeremy Renner, mostly known for impressive performances in "S.W.A.T"
and "The Assassination of Jesse James," gives his most riveting
performance yet as the lead, Staff Sergeant William James, a reckless
but brilliant soldier who has taken down almost 850 bombs.

What separates this film from the bulk of mainstream cinema that has
tackled the Iraqi situation is that it doesn't simply exist as a
political polemic, or even a reminder of the humanitarian horrors that
plague the Iraqi people.

Instead, Bigelow and screenwriter Mark Boal give us a story that
transcends politics and can be seen as almost a straight up kick-ass
action pic. The film is plotted by increasingly dangerous and fully
realized defusion sequences, all of which were shot from beginning to
end in single takes with DOP Barry Ackroyd's cameras continuously
roving around set in order to create a tense realism that translates
well to the screen.

Very elaborate attention to detail and mise-en-scene is in every frame
of the pic, with Bigelow choosing to shoot in Jordan and locations
being less than 10 KM away from the Iraqi border. And from a searing
heat wave ranging up to 49C to actual Iraqi refugees used as extras to
impeccable sound design and special guest cameos by Guy Pearce, David
Morse and Ralph Fiennes, Bigelow has succeeded in creating an entirely
memorable and visceral experience that will surely leave its mark in
the pantheon of the very best war spectacles put to film.
<|_=00=_|>
As usual, I am making a mad dash to see the movies I haven't watched
yet in anticipation of the Oscars. I was really looking forward to
seeing this movie as it seemed to be right up my alley. I can not for
the life of me understand why this movie has gotten the buzz it has.
There is no story!! A group of guys meander around Iraq. One day they
are here diffusing a bomb. Tomorrow they are tooling around the
countryside, by themselves no less and start taking sniper fire. No
wait here they are back in Bagdad. There is no cohesive story at all.
The three main characters are so overly characterized that they are
mere caricatures. By that I mean, we have the sweet kid who is afraid
of dying. We have the hardened military man who is practical and just
wants to get back safe. And then we have the daredevil cowboy who
doesn't follow the rules but has a soft spot for the precocious little
Iraqi boy trying to sell soldiers DVDs. What do you think is going to
happen??? Well, do you think the cowboy soldier who doesn't follow
rules is going to get the sweet kid injured with his renegade ways??
Why yes! Do you think the Iraqi kid that cowboy soldier has a soft spot
for is going to get killed and make him go crazy? Why yes! There is no
story here. The script is juvenile and predictable! The camera is
shaken around a lot to make it look "artsy". And for all of you who
think this is such a great war picture, go rent "Full Metal Jacket",
"Deerhunter" or "Platoon". Don't waste time or money on this boring
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge fan of war movies, and, as a Vietnam combat vet, have some
experience with the technical details. I worked with the bomb guys more
than once and have nothing but respect for them. Other vets, and Iraq
vets in particular, have summarized the inaccuracies in this movie very
well. Poetic license is one thing, but this movie is a complete
fantasy, and fails badly because of it. No bomb disposal unit, or any
unit, would ever have tolerated this rogue operator for more than 5
minutes. Military units prize conformity and discipline for a reason;it
saves lives. The opening scene particularly annoyed me. The guy with
the cell phone would have been shot immediately. Yelling, "Stop
dialing" is not an effective deterrent. It got worse from there. The
scenes with the sniper were particularly egregious. As others have
noted, your average EOD guy doesn't know jack about being a sniper, and
to think any Arab sniper is that good really stretches the imagination.
Kidnapping an Arab businessman for some form of personal revenge just
wouldn't happen. Somebody might shoot him, but this kind of risk-taking
is limited to the movies. I could go on, but, as I said, others have
pointed these things out in detail. This is not a good movie, and if it
wins any awards at all, it's a further reflection of why "La La land"
is so named.
<|_=00=_|>
Quite easily the best movie of 2009 and the best war movie since Black
Hawk Down and maybe even beyond that, The Hurt Locker does something
that few other war movies seem to be able to do. Rather than focusing
on rapid-action combat scenes and the oh-so-emotional mental breakdowns
that all soldiers seem to dramatically endure in Hollywood (Platoon,
much?), it emphasizes the relationships of soldiers and the intensity
of everyday living in Iraq intensity that doesn't diminish when the
guns are holstered. And that's where you'll see the real difference.

The film introduces a seemingly new and unique idea by following a U.S.
Army Explosive Ordinance Disposal (EOD) team as they go around defusing
potential bombs all around town a concept that allows the typical
fast-action war theme to take a backseat to the dramatic intensity of
the three team members' escapades and arguments. It's all about
survival and this time around, it's the calm, isolated atmosphere and
the feeling of never being truly safe that creates the ever-present
suspense. The exceptional editing is partially to thank for such
constant energy and pace. Quick transitions ensure that there is never
a dull moment and the audience is always thrust into the middle of the
action. Plus, director Kathryn Bigelow employed some amazing
cinematography (thanks to Barry Ackroyd, United 93) and some of the
best shaky hand-held-cam and zoom work I've seen yet. It seems that,
for some, this might be a turn-off, but personally, I believe those who
complain about shaky cam need to take a closer look at its purpose and
realize that it's far more effective in establishing a documentary-like
feel for raw and engaging films such as this one.

The interaction between the soldiers is a key point of the film and the
entire project is clearly intended to be largely character-driven. You
will more than likely find yourself sympathizing with all of the main
characters at some point and several others along the way. More than
just observing a character's breakdown at the scene of war such as in
films like Jarhead, The Hurt Locker immerses the viewer in the world of
the characters themselves and practically forces you to care for them
and I mean that in the best way possible. And perhaps the difference is
also partially distinguished by the quality of acting. And if there's
anyone who deserves recognition for their acting, it's most certainly
Jeremy Renner, who surprises with a top-notch performance as Staff
Sergeant William James. His performance will have you laughing at bits
of humor scattered throughout, gasping in disbelief at one point,
shedding a sympathetic tear at another, and yelling at him in
exasperation in yet another scene. The characters are never
two-dimensional and the film always manages to provide constant
reminders that all of the soldiers are just normal people in war
situations, driving its purpose home even more effectively. Anthony
Mackie and Brian Geraghty are impressive in their own roles and share
great chemistry both with each other and with Renner. The relationships
between the three follow no stereotyped guidelines and their
interactions are almost always unpredictable. Further down the billing,
Guy Pearce and Ralph Fiennes also give solid performances worth
mentioning.

Overall, The Hurt Locker is a movie that keeps you on the edge of your
seat the whole way through and packs a visual and cinematographic punch
without the over-the-top Hollywood action scenes and special effects.
While the storyline may be inaccurate when it comes to certain little
details (as many war vets have noted), it's a unique one and allows for
much more realistic and well-rounded characters. You'll walk away with
your heart still beating fast for a good while after the credits roll
and it'll make you think for an even further extended period of time.
Everything about its design and execution will stick with you.

--The Motion Picture Underground
<|_=00=_|>
Here we have one of the best films of the last decade. A war film that
succeeds in showing what it's like to be in the armed forces nowadays.
It was directed be the underrated Kathryn Bigelow. The focus is on
American soldiers in the Iraq war. But it's not about them being
involved in assaults or shootouts. Instead we're shown the lives of a
bomb squad. Jeremy Renner is commanding as Sergeant First Class William
James. He provides an excellent performance. So do Anthony Mackie and
Brian Geraghty as his partners. They really do act like real soldiers.
The Hurt Locker consists of a series of bomb threats that the team have
to overcome. These are all thrilling, tense. What makes the film really
shine, however, is its anti-war messages. In the tradition of
Apocalypse Now (1979) and Come And See (1985) The Hurt Locker shows
that people get hurt and killed in wars, even if they don't deserve it.
It shows that the victims are just like anyone else except that they're
in a war zone. The film doesn't directly criticize the American war
effort. There are no discussions about whether the Iraq war is moral or
immoral. Bigelow's direction is truly impressive. She certainly knows
how to work with actors. The acting is obviously superb, and this is
the film's greatest strength. Also notable is the cinematography by
Barry Ackroyd. The war hasn't looked this realistic or this interesting
in cinema until The Hurt Locker. The images captured are thoughtful and
memorable. No wonder the film was the big winner at the 2010 Academy
Awards. Some films that win Best Picture don't deserve it, but The Hurt
Locker sure did deserve it. It's one of the best war films ever, and I
highly recommend it.
