
For those that know only of the original comic book Hulk, the TV series
Hulk, or the regrettable Ang Lee Hulk, you should know that this new
version is a mixture of origins.

Without spoiling it, one of the larger ingredients in this new Hulk
comes from a Marvel series that is an alternate universe. There are
many differences in the Ultimates Universe. In this version, Banner did
not get his gamma radiation from exposure during an experimental bomb
explosion. I won't spoil it, but you can go to www.marvel.com and look
under "Ultimates" if you wish to get the gist of it. 

I can truly say that this version captures a little of everything, so
that no matter what your knowledge is of the Hulk character, there's
tie-ins to everything.

Personally, I felt this reboot was well thought out. It allows for any
future connectivity by not limiting it to one version of the Hulk. This
will allow future Marvel movie-makers the ability to pick and choose
aspects from the multitude of alternate universes, re-tellings, and
time spans to combine whatever they please.

This was well cast. When the overall product can make me forget the
fact that I don't like a specific actor, and truly appreciate the total
entertainment experience, it's something to smile about. I won't
mention which one I don't care for, since all that will do is spark
useless debate.

Story - intricate and intelligent, fast-paced, yet deeply explanatory,
complex, yet easily taken in by non-geeks. Enough references to the
true comic, alternate comic, and TV show, that everyone in the sneak
peek seemed to be pleased. I surely was.

CGI was great. Don't know why some have to nit-pick, but you can't
please everyone, I guess. Action was wonderful with plenty of it! If
you've ever read one of my reviews, you'll know that I'm a true fan of
overall entertainment. While I have favorites, I don't base reviews on
just one actor, writer, director, production company, genre, or
whatever. So, if you don't like my opinion, so be it.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, as soon as I heard they were making another Hulk movie I was
surprised. When I heard they had cast Ed Norton, I was shocked. So
going into this movie I had no idea what to expect. Coming out, I feel
like an idiot because it was really masterfully done. Lettier does an
amazing job, Norton was fantastic, and as far as a comic book movie
goes, this one is just about on top with little nods and mentions. If
you don't walk out of this film screaming HELLL YEAAAA, then you are
not normal. Far better than Ang Lee's attempt at the green man and as
far as this year, it's definitely Marvel's year. No better way to make
up for Spiderman 3 than releasing Iron Man and The Incredible Hulk just
a month apart. Thank you Marvel for cleaning the mess Spiderman 3 left
and clearing your name. This film just makes me thing of one
word...AVENGERS
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this completely blind. I wanted a pure 'experience' I saw
ONE trailer prior to this screening and closed my eyes while humming. I
had no idea if this was a second in the series or a re-make.

I was pleasantly surprised at the (obvious)complete makeover of our big
green friend, and this was a (P.R.)change for him no doubt... this
delightful romp will bring him right into the "good guy fold" so to
speak, within the umbrella of the, "Avengers" Franchise that is now an
inevitability.

I thoroughly enjoyed this film, Lots of time on character development,
and the intricacies that make you really care for a plot and its
characters. I thought the acting was very well done although I found
Liv Tyler to be the 'Weak Link'. Not sure she 'sold' her part that well
or maybe it was just typecasting for that "Armageddon" girl. 

The CGI was top shelf. There were no seriously 'over done' moments of
,"awww Come on" uttered in the theater. In this packed theater there
were many ovations for the cameo's and the ,"Bad guy gets it" scenes,
and even for the thrilling last minute of the movie. So where was
Samuel L. Jackson?

Please enjoy this more Comic like and more faithful version of THE
HULK!

*** PARENTS*** Go see it! Please do not bring kids under 5 yrs old! it
is very realistic and violent. Be a good parent.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't really sure if I'd like the movie. Ang Lee's version didn't
please me at all. It didn't have enough action and it had far too much
dialogue. I had never really been a fan of the Hulk comics, but I did
like all the movie adaptations of the Marvel Comics. While I didn't
enjoy The Incredible Hulk as much as Iron Man, it's still great fun,
and it will definitely make a big profit at the box office, and
hopefully more money than the first did.

I also must say the cast is a lot better this time around. Edward
Norton is far more convincing as Bruce Banner than Eric Bana was. Liv
Tyler does a good job as Betty, Bruce's girlfriend, though I do like
Jennifer Connelly a bit more. The supporting cast is also great, and
they all deserve to at least be nominated for some awards. My favorite
performance is tied between Norton and Tim Roth.

Now, to the special effects. Predictably, they are magnificent. With
recent superhero movies, the effects are always brilliant, and they
certainly adapted the Hulk character more closely to the original
comics from what I've heard. The action scenes are cool and fun to
watch, and fans of the comic books will be on the edge of their seat in
excitement.

All in all, it's a great movie that comic fans should enjoy, and even
if you don't really read them, you'll still like the movie, as I did.
While it's not my favorite superhero movie, it is a whole lot better
than Ang Lee's version, and a fun time at the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
In 2003, Ang Lee's Hulk was released to commercial success  breaking
box office records for a June opening and smashing its way to the top
of the box office, it outperformed many analysts' expectations and was
well on its way to becoming one of the biggest comic book films ever
produced.

Then, of course, the negative word of mouth caught up with it  and by
the following weekend it had dropped a colossal 60%. It was quickly
left floundering in theaters and only turned a profit thanks to
worldwide intake.

Marvel wasn't quite sure what to do  the film's huge opening indicated
an inherent interest in the material, but fans obviously didn't enjoy
what they were seeing.

Ang Lee's film was, to be fair, admirable in its scope and ambitions 
it wasn't your typical comic book action film. But, at the end of the
day, most audiences don't want two-and-a-half hour psychological
explorations when they go to see a Hulk movie  they want big battle
scenes and lots of bruising action, both of which the 2003 Hulk  for
the most part  failed to deliver.

I count myself among the masses that disliked the 2003 film  not
because I was a fan of the comics and not because I was disappointed in
its treatment of the material; not even because I thought it was
boring, necessarily. I simply thought in spite of its aim to be an
intelligent movie, it was quite silly and pretentious  the end fight
sequence was appalling, for example. It was a film containing moments
of genius cornered by lots of unnecessary scenes and scenery chewing by
Nick Nolte.

So, with this in mind, the ultimate question is: does the 2008 Hulk
deliver on its promise to be bigger, bolder and better? Well, in short,
yes  it's still not a great film by any means, and it has its fair
share of flaws (most notably the last twenty minutes which, despite a
cool battle sequence, go overboard in their destruction), but at the
end of the day, it's an entertaining summer blockbuster with a cast
that's probably a little better than it deserves.

Edward Norton would have been my last choice as Bruce Banner  not
because I think he's bad for the role, but rather because he is such an
unexpected choice. Renowned for his anti-mainstream approach to
film-making and his artistic credibility, his placement in a comic book
franchise sequel/reboot is puzzling to say the least  it would be like
Christian Bale taking on a role in a Batman or Terminator movie (oh,
wait).

The thing is: Norton delivers a solid performance. I'm not sure if it's
better than what Eric Bana tried to achieve (I'd say Bana's performance
is a bit more complex overall), but I think that's partly due to the
film's length and also because it's so action-packed. For what it's
worth, Norton tries his best to inject some humanity into the
character; the whole Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde aspect is more prevalent
here than in the 2003 film. In that movie, Bana's Banner admitted to
enjoying the transformation into the Hulk; in 2008, Norton is
struggling to conceal and control it.

William Hurt replaces Sam Elliot as General Ross, the man responsible
for Bruce's predicament. The movie is essentially a cat-and-mouse game,
with Banner hiding away in Brazil for over a year, until Ross finally
discovers his location  prompting Bruce to flee back to North America
in a last-ditch effort to find a cure for his "disease." He reunites
with Ross' daughter, Betty (Liv Tyler), and finds himself at odds with
an overzealous combatant named Blonsky (played by Tim Roth), who
eventually transforms into Abomination.

My problems with the film are most present in the latter half. The
first 45 minutes is a lot of fun and is rather cleverly made  the
fight scenes are engaging and Roth establishes his anti-hero villain.
But suddenly halfway through the movie, Blonsky turns into an
unmotivated cliché of a bad guy, and by the end of the film you lose
all care and understanding for the character. Once he transforms into
the Abomination and goes on a citywide rampage in search of an equal
foe (in this case, the Hulk), his reasons are puzzling.

This is where the film truly falls apart, because suddenly General Ross
is responsible for millions of dollars' worth of damage and civilian
casualties (without spoiling any surprises, he is responsible for
Blonsky's transformation), and he's flying around in an Army helicopter
following the city's destruction, but nobody really seems to care. He
never loses his job, even after he tears up a college campus in search
of the Hulk earlier in the film. It may be pointless to criticize a
comic book film for lapses in logic, but since the film strives for a
sense of realism in its early scenes, the switch to excess halfway
through is a bit disheartening. The 2003 Hulk had the same problems,
incidentally  I'm wondering if it's a flaw of the comic book or just
the character itself; perhaps it's too hard to retain realism when
you've got a 12-foot giant green dude destroying everything in sight.

If I'm being too critical, it's only because I enjoyed the film and
regretted these aspects. At the end of the day, it's a fun,
entertaining summer blockbuster -- and that's really all it needed to
be.
<|_=00=_|>
By the looks of the ending of Ang Lee's Hulk (2003) it seemed that
there is going to be a sequel. After 5 years we now have The Incredible
Hulk which is a reboot like Batman Begins. The reboot was a better idea
than a sequel because Hulk (2003) wasn't a bad movie but wasn't even
great either and was better off as a one film itself. But if the first
attempt at a Hulk movie left you feeling a little green, good news!
This version has a whole new cast, a whole new mood, and even a whole
new retelling of The Hulk's origin

When I saw the trailer of The Incredible Hulk I was like "Wow this
movie looks cool" and it lived up to my expectation also the trailer
did not give too much away about the plot. The film was outrageously
entertaining, fun and a perfect popcorn movie. It is the same director
of The Transporter 2 so it is bound to have good action. You can see
every penny spent from the $130 million budget. It is roughly (not
exactly) the same amount as Hulk (2003) and The Incredible Hulk looks
much, much more expensive.

The story is about Bruce Banner who is trying to cure is condition that
turns him into a monster but is going to use it as his weapon against
the Abomination. The plot may seem simple but it is better that way
because you can just concentrate on the action and the monsters.

This time the Hulk is more darker and sinister looking and is more
muscular than Ang Lee's Hulk. The Abomination was the icing & cherry on
the cake and I'm glad that they had a proper villain this time. His
name really does match his personality and he is not wearing any
underpants, so girls you might want to look away otherwise you might
get a fright. Overall this movie is Incredible not an Abomination.
<|_=00=_|>
The crowded streets and cluttered housing on the streets of Rio De
Janeiro provided some reminiscence of Jackie Chan's Police Story, where
you could be sure of a chase scene zig- zagging the streets to take
advantage of the wonderful opportunities presented for an exhilarating
chase. And Leterrier doesn't try not to provide action junkies plenty
of action- smashing moments as we root for Bruce Banner to hulk up,
unfortunately of course, to satisfy our lust for some unadulterated
action where everything in the way of the Hulk, gets smashed. However
those expecting action from the get go will be disappointed, as there
were only a small handful of action sequences, though of course they
include the classic moments that comic fans had been baying for since 4
years ago. So I guess most will be left happy as we see some nifty
moves by the Hulkster, which will leave a smile on your face, despite
being used in limited doses. But I note though that the story cum
action, looked a little bit like Superman II with the seeking of a cure
and the deliberate loss of power to be with the lady love, and the
duking out between super-beings on equal footing (here being
gamma-powered), with a tinge of Cloverfield like moments too.

While there will be those who will gripe about the transformation
mainly done in the dark and in shadows, it does prove to be effective
in building some anticipation and heigntened tension as to when he will
finally appear in full glory. The mainly military attacks on the big
guy again brought out some back to basics adversary with Thunderbolt
Ross trying to capture the Hulk, and in fact I'd appreciate that this
movie didn't divert too much away from this primary objective, although
it might be more of the same from the first movie. But while the Hulk
has an aura of invulnerability, somehow The Incredible Hulk provided me
at least, an emotional pang when he gets hurt bad, as we remember that
this is a guy who just plainly wants to be left alone. And the angrier
the Hulk gets, the bigger and more powerful he becomes too.

And it's not all serious here too, with well meaning humour peppered in
the right places, making numerous references to the television series
and characters from the Marvel universe. You'd often wonder how his
pants stay on before-during-and-after transformation, well, it gets
addressed here with humour. Memorable ines such as "don't-
make-me-angry-you-wouldn't-like-me-when-I'm-angry" gets punned away,
even the late Bill Bixby got a cameo, together with Lou Ferrigno who
reprises his security guard role, and Stan Lee who's possibly in the
most unmemorable cameo appearance ever. The much touted Tony Stark
appearance will bring whoops of joy from newly converted fans of Robert
Downey Jr, while I suspect in line with the rumoured Avengers movie,
the universe now seemed more streamlined again with the references to
SHIELD, and stupid me thinking that Mr Fantastic would somewhat be
featured in this too. A WWII super soldier project and serum was
referenced and formed the basis for Tim Roth's Emil Blonsky turned
Abomination, but Captain America? I'll leave that to you to find out.

But what I really liked about The Incredible Hulk is not the action
sequences, nor the references mentioned made. It was the central love
story between Bruce Banner and Betty Ross. In Lee Ang's version, we
don't see much of the romance between Bana and Connelly because the
story didn't really call for it, save for a rescue scene, and at an
in-juncture where the Hulk was stopped in his tracks by his lady love.
And that was precisely the winner for me. The Hulk, for all his power
and unstoppable rage, could be brought under control by his lady love,
and that was used to great effect here. Beneath the green
invulnerability lies the heart of a mild-mannered man who yearns to be
with the love of his life, but unfortunately cannot due to the curse
that Fate had brought upon him. Both Norton and Tyler managed to bring
out this chemistry of lovers torned apart, one who can only admire the
other from afar, and the other finally never wanting to let go of
someone who had disappeared from her life for her own protection. And
this version of Betty does sport a bit of a temper and feisty too, and
is not really your classic damsel in distress.

Granted that most supporting characters were rather one-dimensional,
The Incredible Hulk somehow managed to straddle between its intense
whack-all-destroy-all moments, and tender ones when the lovers are left
alone to their own devices. As with the Marvel movies to date, the
doors are left wide opened for follow ups and team-ups, and here there
are no less than three avenues where the next story could develop
further from, and sowed the seed for other movie franchises to be
developed too. It drained a little bit from the cerebral department in
order to amplify the romance, and let the action go into overdrive.
HUlk Smash indeed, this time likely to make a huge dent at the box
office, for fans and non-fans alike to be won over, just like how Iron
Man did.
<|_=00=_|>
Take a deep breath when you enter the cinema to see this one because
it's just downright breathtaking. THE INCREDIBLE HULK is an amazing
summer blockbuster movie. This reboot has made Ang Lee's Hulk back in
2003 seem like it never existed. Edward Norton's version portrays what
Hulk is supposed to be on the big screen. Do not bootleg this one, do
not wait til it hit DVD, Go watch it in the theaters because I
guarantee you it is worth every penny. This movie is spectacular and
superb in every way. It's a rock 'em smash 'em, jaw dropping thrill
ride.

Let's just start with the acting, what a perfect cast ensemble. Edward
Norton is a better Bruce Banner than Eric Bana because Edward looks
more convincing as a skinny nerd scientist. He embodies the pain and
the struggle that his character has to go through. Always running,
always hiding, always trying to come up with ways to get rid of the
monster in him. William Hurt and Tim Roth have no problem being the bad
guys, having played so many other bad guys in many other movies in the
past. Tim Blake Nelson giving us hints that he'll become the next arch
nemesis The Leader is pretty cool. Liv Tyler is so damn cute. That girl
can melt your heart.

Now to the best part. The category that makes this movie a winner is
its awesome CGI visual effects. Bravo to the brains behind this
brilliant technological accomplishment. When Hulk breaks a cop car into
half and uses each part as boxing globes, that's just plain badass! The
images are so much better and more believable,.. the timing could not
have been more right to revamp this character. The storyline helps us
understand the characters and their development as they progress but it
wastes no time at all on any boring moment.

Magnificent stuntwork as well, especially the chase scene in the small
town in Brazil. The whole jumping from one roof to another at high
speed with bodies bumping into walls or falling down from a
considerable height. I have much respect for the stunt people who broke
their bones daily for this movie.

The story has three main long action packed sequences and the last
fight scene is just phenomenal. They weren't kidding when they said
that it would last for 26 minutes. Hulk punches Abomination,
Abomination, kicks Hulk, Hulk strangles Abomination, Abomination slams
Hulk onto a couple of buildings.. Your inner kid will be happy.

All the elements of this movie have but one purpose only to entertain
your senses to the fullest extent. Your sight and hearing will be
treated with the utmost incredible experience of your lifetime. You
will find yourself cheering at how great this movie is.

The cameo by Stan Lee and Lou Ferrigno, who plays Hulk in the old TV
series are memorable. The plot also has some punch lines here and there
that are silly funny but effective. I'm glad Lou Ferrigno got to voice
the Hulk because I can't think of anyone else more perfect for the job.
The movie even includes the main theme song from the old TV series
starring the late Bill Bixby. What a heartfelt nostalgic tribute.

The teaser at the end when Tony Stark meets Gen. Thunderbolt Ross, that
part is a show stopper. Director Louise Leterrier and his crew deserves
a standing ovation for successfully making an excellent superhero movie
which some people thought was going to be as bad as the first Hulk
movie. Well, Louise has proved them wrong. Summer 2008 may quite
possibly be the best summer movie season ever.
<|_=00=_|>
Three cheers for Marvel for finally realizing that no one knows their
material better then themselves. May they never sell another beloved
superhero to a lesser being again.

For the second time this summer Marvel has given us a superhero movie
that just plain rocks. With the exact right amount of humour, character
development and great action sequences, the Incredible Hulk is up there
with Iron Man as one of my favourite films to be released so far in the
summer movie season. While I didn't like it quite as much as Iron Man
(Robert Downey WAS Tony Stark. Whereas something still doesn't sit
right about Edward Norton as Bruce...) it was nevertheless a great,
faithful adaptation of the comic books. Plus the cameo appearances by
both Stan Lee and Robert Downey Jr where terrific! Possibly my
favourite Stan Lee cameo yet.

There isn't really much else to say besides, go see it for yourselves.
If you're a fan of the comics, or just of fun popcorn films you'll
definitely enjoy this one.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a sneak preview of The Incredible Hulk last night.
Incredible? No, but Very Good. And it washes the bad taste left in my
mouth from Indiana Jones and the Big Letdown. The story is good, the
acting is awesome. Ed Norton is the perfect person to play the
tormented Bruce Banner. He is more believable in the roll than Eric
Bana. Liv Tyler is very good as Betty Ross (formally played by the
tasty Jennifer Connelly) William Hurt as General Ross is impressive and
makes for a worthy adversary to Bruce Banner. If I had to come up with
a negative, it would be Tim Roth. While I really like him, and he
always plays great villains, I feel he's just miss cast here. He seems
tiny next to General Ross. Instead of coming off like the English bad
ass special op he's supposed to be, he comes off more like a jerk with
Napoleon Syndrome. Someone more physically imposing like Vinnie Jones
(Bullet tooth from Snatch), or Daniel Craig (the new Bond) would have
been more convincing for the part. But I'm just picking here. The movie
is a joy. Great action. No long boring, dragging development stuff that
the first Hulk had in spades. There are some very nice cameos as well.
Some were a surprise, some were not. I didn't see Nick Fury anywhere
except in a brief headline in a montage. However I did not remain
through the credits, so there might have been a scene at the end like
Iron Man that I don't know about. I give it ***1/2 out of ****. I also
predict it to make 80+million this weekend when it opens to the public
and should "Hulk Smash" the competition. The movie received an ovation
from the audience at the end which sums it up. A worthy movie made for
the fans and everyone else.
