
I saw this film last night in a advance screening. I can say without a
doubt it is the worst movie I've ever seen in the theater. It is simply
a terrible movie. For every joke that's funny (which are few) there is
about dozen that are not. Then there's all the jokes we've seen in
previous Myers films that aren't so funny the 4th time around when they
appear in this flick. Many moments in this film will having you looking
around the theater wondering if anyone else finds this movie as stupid
as you do.

That's really the bottom line. This movie is stupid. Take every fear
you've had watching the trailer, times it by 10 and you will get an
idea of how bad this film is.

By the way, the hockey in this movie will leave any one who loves the
game sick to there stomach. The hockey portrayal left me in tears. Its
brutal ! The film is a HUGE slap in the face to hockey. Thanks Mike
Myers ! 

On a positive note though, Justin Timberlake and Stephen Colbert are
hilarious. The only time i enjoyed the movie at all was when they were
on screen. I never thought in a million years I would leave a movie
saying " Thank God Justin Timberlake was is it."

In short : this movie is terrible ! Don't believe me ? Then throw your
money away and see for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
It was heavy-handed, painful and endless. The opposite of funny. An
excruciating bunch of penis jokes strung together with some gross-out
scenes. Wow! Penises can be short! Penises can be long! Oh, hahaha! Oh,
and who can forget the musical numbers. Did I mention that they were
choreographed? Mike Myers has lost the charm he exhibited in the Austin
Powers franchise. And it's clear that he picked an inexperienced
director for this so he could control the shoot. And why does Jessica
Alba keep doing crappy movies like this and "Good Luck, Chuck"? Did
someone tell her she was a comedienne? And Justin Timberlake -- well,
no wonder he wears a wig and moustache throughout. Ironically, though
the material is definitely for teen-aged boys, they probably won't go
to see it because of the title. It'll maybe have one weekend, then go
flaccid. Incidentally, the only truly memorable line in the entire mess
is from Verne Troyer in an outtake run with the credits. But it's not
worth watching the entire mess to hear it.
<|_=00=_|>
Mike Myers can't seem to get enough of himself in The Love Guru. He's
constantly giggling at his own jokes, and mugging for the camera as if
he thinks his latest comedy creation is the funniest thing he's
invented. I had a very different reaction. Pitka was born in America,
and traveled to India to study under the cross-eyed Guru Tugginmypudah
(Ben Kingsley), who taught his students lessons by having them hit each
other with urine-soaked mops. Pitka devotes his life and his teachings
to helping other people out with their relationship troubles, and hopes
his words of wisdom will become so popular, he'll wind up on Oprah.

This is information we learn early on in the film (after Pitka
serenades us with a Bollywood-style musical number of Dolly Parton's
Nine to Five during the opening credits), and I pretty much knew right
there that The Love Guru was going to be a very long 90 minutes. The
movie makes a grave miscalculation with its lead character. Guru Pitka
is not funny or likable. It's simply Myers talking in a funny accent,
and coming up with as many alternate ways for saying "penis" as he can
without losing the film's PG-13 rating. Pitka is not even a real
character. Myers plays him more as an experiment, as if he's still
testing the character out, and we the audience are the guinea pigs
being subjected to the experiment. It's been widely reported that the
reason why Myers hasn't done a live action film in five years is
because he's been fine tuning his Guru Pitka at various comedy clubs
until he felt he was ready. He was not ready, and he probably should
have spent another five years if the end result is any indication.

Pitka is approached by Jane Bullard (Jessica Alba), the owner of the
struggling Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team. Her star player, Darren
Roanoke (Romany Malco), hasn't been performing up to the best of his
abilities ever since his wife, Prudence (Meagan Good), left him for the
goalie on the rival team - a French player named Jacques "Le Coq"
Grande (Justin Timberlake, embarrassing himself here) who is known for
his over-sized "manhood" as much as he's known for his talent in the
game. The character exists simply so that Myers and co-screenwriter
Graham Gordy can have the characters say cock a lot more than humanly
necessary. The Maple Leafs have a chance at winning the Stanley Cup,
but not if Darren doesn't have his head in the game. The team's
pint-sized coach (Verne Troyer) doubts that Pitka can turn the
situation around, but the Guru is determined to help. He'll do this by
finding a way to distract Darren from his problems (By forcing him to
watch two elephants having sex, thereby taking his mind off of his
problems with his wife. You figure it out.), and help him confront his
over-bearing mother (Telma Hopkins), who has long cast a shadow over
the star player.

The Love Guru is not a comedy, it is a cry of desperation on behalf of
Myers and everyone involved. Comedy is funniest when it seems to come
naturally out of the material, but everything seems so forced and
strained here. It's almost like if they can't think of something funny
to do, they'll throw in elephants humping each other, or light a midget
on fire. And if that doesn't work, they'll throw in another couple
references to male genitalia. If there's a bigger cry of comic
desperation than limp innuendo humor, then it has to be out of the blue
musical numbers that are not funny in themselves, the movie just
expects us to laugh at the fact that the characters are suddenly
singing for no reason. You know, I think I'm going to have to take that
last statement back. There's an even more desperate form of comedy, and
that would have to be building an entire scene around the fact that
Guru Pitka has a different kind of food stuck in his beard each time we
see him, building up to a sight gag where his entire beard is cotton
candy. This movie has so many scenes of just plain wrong-headed
desperation, you'd almost think it was intentional.

While Myers cackles and mugs his face with glee, pretending that he's
having a great time, the rest of the cast kind of look like they wish
they were somewhere else. Jessica Alba looks uncomfortable, and her
scenes where she's supposed to be warming up to Pitka look more like
she's hanging out with him out of pity more than anything else. It's
not unusual in a comedy to have the supporting players stand in the
background so the star can do his thing, but the cast here seem just as
confused as I was as to what we were supposed to be watching Myers
doing. 

There is not a single laugh or moment of inspiration in The Love Guru.
It's just a sad, depressing slog through material that's not funny to
start with, taken by actors who seem to know it's not funny. It's bad
enough when a comedy can't generate any laughs, but it gets even worse
when you start feeling sorry for everyone up on the screen. You want to
ask them and their agents what they were thinking when they signed up.
You want to remind Myers of just how funny he can be, and why this
material and character don't suit him. But most of all, you want to be
able to somehow turn back time to before you gave the ticket counter
your money, walk back out the door, and figure out another way to spend
90 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't throw this statement around lightly. As someone who frequently
reads reviews, I find that it is thrown around far too often,
especially when there are so many bad movies out there. But I can say,
without a doubt in my mind, that The Love Guru is the worst movie I've
ever seen. It has officially dethroned classics such as Die Hard
Dracula and Dark Harvest 2: The Maize. Those movies were made on
minuscule budgets by no-talents. In comparison, The Love Guru was made
on a huge budget by Mike Meyers, the creator of comedy classics Austin
Powers and Wayne's World, which makes this train wreck of a film all
the more painful to watch.

With The Love Guru, you can tell Meyers is trying to create another
success along the lines of Austin Powers, but failing miserably. The
thing about Austin Powers was despite being a dumb comedy, the movie
had a likable, fun protagonist. In Meyer's latest outing, we get the
Guru Pitka, a Charles Manson look-alike who has an obsession with
penises. It's somewhat fitting that he resembles Charles Manson, a
notorious cult leader, as by the movies end I had a strange urge to
kill myself. Not only is the Guru creepy, he's also very unfunny.
Whether he's making lame puns about "life" or talking about penises, he
never manages to elicit any laughs whatsoever. It could be that his
jokes are just bad. Certainly using jokes straight out of a children's
joke book isn't a recipe for success. It could also be the fact that
Meyers is so desperate for a laugh, he himself laughs at every joke and
continuously looks at the audience, attempting to entice them to laugh
along with him. You get the sense that he realizes the jokes are
unfunny and the glances at the audience are his last failed attempts at
getting a few laughs. Guru Pitka's character development just adds
injury to the insult. One minute Pitka is being hailed as a spiritual
healer who lives to help people and the next minute he's insulting a
midget for no particular reason. There's no consistency to the
character at all, which is what this movie is missing in comparison to
Meyer's last few. Wayne Campbell and Austin Powers felt like real
characters, where the Guru doesn't really have any character; he
randomly does whatever moves the plot along forward.

Speaking of plot, the storyline is almost as ill-conceived as the title
character. A stupid plot in a comedy is acceptable if it manages to be
funny, but there's nothing amusing about a Guru's quest to go on the
Oprah show. That's just plain stupid. It would help if the film wasn't
filled with every cliché ever known to cinema-goers, but it is. The
Guru has a self-revelation at the end and changes his greedy ways. The
good guys triumph. And of course, Blur's "Song 2" plays during one of
the hockey sequences, which has become the most commonly used (and
groan-inducing) tune for any sports-related film.

Even if you can put aside the annoyingness of the Guru Pitka, the movie
still fails to deliver anything remotely funny. The most common joke is
to have a characters name resemble something vulgar, such as "Dick
Pants" or some other Grade 3 level joke. The next most common is the
Guru's constant repeating of "TM" after one of his catchphrases. It
wasn't funny the first time, what made Meyers think it would be funny
the tenth or fifteenth? There's also the repetition of jokes from
Austin Powers, ranging from the plane to even the casting of Verne
Troyer, the midget who made one of his only popular appearances in the
Powers films as Mini-Me. Finally, there are the gags that are just
plain lame. These involve elephants humping each other, the Guru
wearing a chastity belt, the Guru having a battle using mops soaked in
urine, the Guru sticking his head up his own ass (which is actually far
less funny than it sounds), the Guru getting punched in the groin, the
Guru doing battle with a rooster and the Guru engaging in two very long
song and dance numbers on the Sitar, one a rendition of Dolly Parton's
"9 to 5", the other a ear-splitting variation on "Space Cowboy" by
Steve Miller Band. Both are in there for no particular reason
whatsoever (and I really do hope it wasn't for laughs).

The other actors are fairly bad, although they really don't have much
to work with. Jessica Alba continues her tradition of playing
practically the same exact character, giggling and acting ditsy. Justin
Timberlake is atrocious as Jacque Grande, although to be fair, his
character was a one-note joke about Quebecois people. I'm bemused that
Meyers would think Americans would find a joke about a people they
likely know little about funny, especially when I didn't find it funny
and I'm a Canadian. Verne Troyer just proves that the only reason he
has even a semblance of a career is because of the novelty that he's a
midget.

It really is hard to describe how utterly bad The Love Guru is. It's a
stupid comedy, yes, but I'm a fan of those. I'm the guy who gave You
Don't Mess With the Zohan a positive rating, so if anything this should
be right up my alley. Instead, it's the worst movie of the year for
sure (leaving Meet the Spartans way behind in its dust) and has reached
it's place, for me at least, as the worst movie ever created. It's
painfully unfunny and left me in a sour mood for a good hour after
viewing. I'd rather wear a chastity belt for 30 years like the Guru
rather than sit through this pile of crud.
<|_=00=_|>
If you hate Mike Myers then this movie will be your holy grail...the
one you hold high and proclaim loudly "See, I told you this A-Hole
wasn't funny!"

If you love Mike Myers (as I do, in a totally manly non-ancient-Greece
type way) then you'll just have to hang your head and silently agree.

What in Krishna's name went wrong here? How could these people have sat
in an editing room and watched this hundreds of times during the final
cut and not said to themselves " I have to save Mike Myers from
himself!" I only had to watch the first fifteen minutes ONCE before I
was ready to walk out. 

How do I hate thee, let me count the ways; BAD acting, BAD casting, BAD
writing, BAD directing, BAD dialogue, BAD excuse for a hockey mask
(What is this, 1975?)

Is there anything good in this movie? YES! Romany Malco (Weeds, The 40
Year Old Virgin) rises above the dreck by playing a real person in a
comic book universe. He's funny, sympathetic and believable; in short,
everything this movie IS NOT.

I did get some good laughs though, out of the previews for "Tropic
Thunder" and "Hamlet II". Do yourself a favor and miss this one
(throwing up popcorn is a painful experience!)
<|_=00=_|>
Mike Myers is a talented guy, but this vehicle is an embarrassment. The
funniest parts are gleefully juvenile, but they are, unfortunately,
outnumbered by gags that are simply juvenile or, worse yet, juvenile
and mean-spirited. For example, some of the jokes directed at Verne
Troyer's character sound like they were uttered by a 15-year-old
classroom bully, not written by an intelligent man in his forties. I'm
all in favor of offending PC sensibilities whenever possible, but do it
right: cracks about Keebler elves show are just stupid and artistically
lazy.

More scenes of young Pitka might have explained better how he grew into
the adult he became, and Rajneesh could have been fleshed out a bit. I
suspect that a lot of character development and back story were left on
the cutting room floor. What should have been cut were the cameos that
were either pointless or self-referential without being truly funny.

The plot wasn't exactly Citizen Kane quality, but it could have worked
with better writing. After all, if anything cries out for satiric
treatment, it's the self-help and New Age movements. With such
target-rich subject matter, how did Myers manage to make such a dud? I
think that it's a case of plain self-indulgence. Jim Carrey and Robin
Williams are two other talented, over-the-top funny men who do some of
their best work when they show restraint and don't play themselves.
Someone should have reined in Myers on this one.

For his penance, I suggest that he lay off comedy for a while and do a
few dramatic roles - including supporting ones - as he did (quite well)
in "54." Williams and Carrey have shown other dimensions of themselves
in dramatic roles, and I'm sure Myers can, too.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen some awful movies. Movies that just aren't that great,
aren't interesting, lack that certain spark that a Great Movie always
has. I knew, walking in to screen this movie this morning, that this
would lack that certain spark. I knew this would not be a Great Movie,
but I expected it to be at least somewhat funny -- it is, after all, a
comedy. And as for expecting the rest of it to be stupid, well, it went
above and beyond: it was absolutely ridiculous.

Generally, I'm indifferent to Mike Myers' stupid (for lack of a better
word) humor. There have been some genuinely funny moments in past
movies, but you won't find more than two or maybe even three in this
one. The entire movie was basically sexual innuendo after innuendo
after innuendo after humping elephants.

At one point, I wanted to bash my head against a wall. This supposed
"comedy" was absolute torture to sit through.

But Stephen Colbert is interesting -- has a few funny lines -- and
Jessica Alba was very pretty. Also, Verne Troyer has quite the clever
line -- in the credits, that is.

I suppose one thing to say about this movie is, while not exactly in a
positive light, it will likely always be in your memory, never
forgotten. Although, keep in mind: seeing a movie should never hurt
this much.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always been told that if you have nothing good to say, don't say
anything at all. So, I have to tell you all the best parts of the new
Michael Myers vehicle, The Love Guru. You've got one really funny joke
about Guru Pitka's mom getting a job that kills even though it was in
the trailer, Stephen Colbert finally hits one out of the park as a
robot cyborg after failing three previous times to elicit any laughs,
Jessica Alba is gorgeous as always if you overlook her atrocious acting
abilities, and Justin Timberlake shows he has no shame and steals every
single second of screen time he is given. If Jacques "le coq" Grande
had his own film, I'd pay to see it. Being that he is included in one
that relies on physical humor, asinine wordplay, sexual innuendo, and
Myers making a complete idiot of himself as he kills the funny out of
every only slightly funny gag he does, Timberlake becomes the only
reason I can say it was worth going to a free preview. The Love Guru is
quite possibly the worst film I have ever seen and once I'm done
writing this review I am going to crawl into bed and cry as I remember
So I Married an Axe Murderer and the times when Myers could do no wrong
(thanks for the Wayne's World callback Mike, you actually made me
realize how inferior this film is more).

There is truly no point in describing a plot because there isn't one.
The film exists as a series of set-pieces allowing Myers to act up his
schtick and try to cause uproarious laughter in the audience. Besides
some faint giggles at the fact that Myers himself smiles and winks at
the camera, telling us he just told a joke, there is not too much to go
on here. Sure there is a ton of uncomfortable laughter and gasps of awe
at the wordplay"can't face" said real fast to sound likeahemthat you
are shocked to hear in a PG-13 film, but does that really make you
think the this was a success? I mean, the main focus is supposed to be
the idea that Pitka has been hired to get the star player on the
Toronto Maple Leafs back with his ex-girlfriend so that his hockey
skills will return and win his owner, the second generation of a cursed
family, "Stanley's Cup". You almost believe this thread has some merit
until the resolution is glossed over quickly and rectified without the
bat of an eye. The thing is held together by concert interludes of
Myers singing in his way over-the-top Indian accent for entire songs.
Can you say filler? (Although I will admit, "More Than Words" was
fantastic, especially the visual nods to the actual Extreme video.) I
might be wrapping this review up quickly to rest. My neck has some pain
from too much shaking out of embarrassment for those collecting their
paychecks on the screen. You could literally see the ca-ching dollar
signs popping out of their eyeballs with every awkward moment. Some of
the sight gags were funny, the first time they were used. I enjoyed the
motorized magic carpet, the utter stupidity of Verne Troyer's office
being half size, and the "Kelestrator" of course, (I wonder why they
didn't TM that one). Admittedly, though, this is not my kind of comedy.
While I enjoy a good low-brow laughfest like the next guy, I still
would rather have a somewhat decently constructed story, something this
tale lacks completely. Had the gags been separated and shown on a TV
skit show, I might be calling them genius, however, when you string
them together with the only common denominator being that the same
characters are used, it gets old fast. Unfortunately, this film will
work for a good chuck of America, but I just can't condone the spending
of millions of dollars on something so trite and unenjoyable as this
packaged and sold mess.

Now I don't want to leave Timberlake as the only good thing here. That
would be doing a disservice to Manu Narayan who played Myers'
assistant. With spot-on timing and perfect facial expressions, it was
good to see someone having fun playing off of the grotesque guru. A
nice companion, he actually makes Pitka better each time they are doing
a skit together. I'm not really sure what to say about Myers himself.
On one hand, he totally commits to this character and must be given
credit for that fact. The problem is, though, that the role itself is
paper-thin and very, very tiresome. As for Romany Malco, our second
leadalthough he got the shaft of no top-billinghe does well for what
he has been given. Come on man, you were in the amazing 40-Year Old
Virgin and have a hit TV show "Weeds" for which you are a big part of
its success. Please take the time to do some work that has merit. I
mean, wow, who'd have thought I'd be saying Get Smart might be your
best movie option this weekend.

Oh, and Ben Kingsleycan I have a word? I am going to have to take away
your knighthood. Yes, I know how much you like it and how hard you
worked to achieve the title, but I can't allow someone with as little
self respect as you keep the "Sir". Why, oh why, would you continue to
do drivel like this? You are an Academy Award winning thespian. I can
only hope The Wackness is as good as it seems so you may redeem a
little bit of that respect in my eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
The Love Guru, when I saw the trailer, I wasn't exactly laughing, but
it was Mike Myers, the clever man who has brought us Austin Powers and
Wayne's World, I had to have hope. Well, Mike Myers, I have no choice,
I really wanted to slap the heck out of him when I was watching this
painful movie. Now I'm convinced that Mike must have some obsession
with the penis, because there are so many penis jokes in this movie it
just becomes painfully unfunny. Now there was a decent audience in the
movie theater, like twenty something people, I did not hear one laugh,
seriously, I even kept sighing, wondering when this movie was going to
be over. Five people left early complaining, I wished I had joined
them, but something inside me was just hoping that something would make
me laugh, I was really pulling for Mike, but he has just made me so
unhappy with this bad movie that was just his pathetic attempt of
constantly reminding people of his good comedic days.

Guru Pitka is a self help guru who is very successful, but he is ranked
as the number two self help guru of the world. The only way he feels
like he can be successful is to be on Oprah. So he has to save a man,
Darran, on a loosing hockey team in Canada to get him back with his ex
girlfriend who is with this "cocky" winning goalie, Jacques Grande.
Guru also meets the owner of the team, Jane, who he just falls for, so
in order for him to get famous, he has to get Darran back with his girl
and the team will start winning.

Yeah, I'm serious, that's the "plot", sad, isn't it? I just seriously
cannot believe how low Mike Myers has sunk, the cast was bad and the
story was just, I don't think it was even existent. Now, I hate it when
people call movies racist without even thinking what the movie is
supposed to be, but you know what?! I was friggin' offended by this
movie, it was just plan sad, Mike Myers has lost his game and cannot
admit it. He should have just stuck to the animated voices, because his
characters now are just lame. There is nothing I could say more than
please just stay away from this film, I know I said this before, but
this is just a painful and unfunny movie. Good luck to Mike Myers,
he'll need it big time after more critics review this bad movie.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie hoping for lighthearted entertainment, because
I have always loved Mike Meyers. I hoped the negative reviews were
wrong. But they were oh-so-right. Don't waste your hard-earned money or
time on this one.

The sight of Ben Kingsley playing a silly cross-eyed Indian guru (who
has his apprentices fight with mops dipped in his bodily fluids) is
very depressing indeed. To go from playing Gandhi to this is just so,
so, so sad.

The presence of two gratuitous anti-gay jokes turned an otherwise
innocuous movie into an unpleasant experience. Call me crazy, but I
don't go to the expense of going to a theatre in order to be insulted.
Do Mike Meyers and this film's makers think that gay audience members
LIKE to be insulted as we sit there watching their movies? (which we
PAID to see!!) I thought the Guru Pitka schtick might be fun, but it
wasn't. The only bright spots were Justin Timberlake as a Lothario
Quebecquer and the fairly fun Bollywood-style Indian dance number at
the end of the movie. Otherwise it is just painfully unfunny and
uninteresting.
