
Despite numerous warnings to avoid this film, I shelled out my money,
including the ridiculous $3 extra for 3D glasses, figuring, it's Wes
Craven, how bad can it be? Well, the answer is, extremely, horribly,
atrociously bad. MSTT made Shocker look like Citizen Kane. I've seen
better efforts at the After Dark Horrorfests and coming from The Asylum
on SyFy.

MSTT had a script and dialog of the level of some
fresh-out-of-some-two-bit-drama-school reject, not of a nearly 40-year
veteran of filmmaking. Half the dialog made no sense whatsoever, and
the emotions of the actors was usually misplaced.

While the story had promise, the execution failed completely. At first,
the action seemed forced to get to the central elements Craven was
looking for, then the resolution bogged down in complete incoherence.

Craven can't blame some one else's script or studio insistence on cuts,
'cause this atrocity was all his. If this is the best he can do, he
should retire. He's proved he has nothing left to add to horror.

And if my negative comments still don't dissuade you from seeing this
atrocity, make sure you at least seek out 2D instead of the extra money
for 3D, because...

THERE WAS NO Discernible 3D IN THE FILM WHATSOEVER!!!! Scenes which
should have popped out of the screen, such as the ambulance crash,
DIDN'T! It's quite obvious the studio realized what a piece of crap
MSTT was and how it would plummet in ticket sales once work of mouth
got out, so they did post-filming 3D conversion to bilk the poor
suckers who went to see it opening weekend out of a few dollars more.

The only reason I didn't rate this a 1 is because, sadly, I have seen
worse. But this one should be avoided at all costs.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sad to be giving Wes' new film a meagre 6/10. I mean, 6 out of 10
isn't even that bad for a horror film but for a Wes Craven horror film
it is a terrible grade. I like Wes' films because of the fact that he
can make a simple story (psychopath killing people, voodoos and
zombies, terrorists on planes) into something complex and interesting.
With Nightmare on Elm Street he managed to prey on the fears of adults
and children as well as offering ideas into dreams and reality. In
Scream he gave his victims and killers modern sensibilities and
repeatedly asked "are movies responsible for our actions?" He shot some
beautiful scenes in Haiti for Serpent and the Rainbow and looked at the
effects of religion governing politics.

So here he is with a movie about souls and fate. The plot sees a
psychopath (Abel) with split personalities loose his grip on normality
and go on a killing spree, ending with him dying (or did he?). On the
night that he died, 7 children were born including his own son, Adam
(do you notice the religious connotations there?) who had to be cut out
of his dead mother's womb. Adam (Bug) and the 6 others enjoy a ritual
every year to ward of the evil spirit that they think may still want to
murder them for they might just be the souls of the victims of Abel's
bad seed. Now at 16, Bug is suffering black outs, nausea and migraines
and people are beginning to worry that he might have inherited his
father's illness. It sure doesn't help that his older sister, Leah,
spreads lies about him to the school out of spite for she feels her
life was ruined the night that Bug was born. On the anniversary of the
Ripper's death, one of the 7 is murdered and the 6 begin to worry that
their souls may be tainted.

At 96 minutes, it is a longer than usual "horror" movie. Craven fills
the daylight with musings of souls and inheritance and the night with
murder and bloodshed. Craven side-steps the horror clich√©s to an
extent, allowing his characters to fall prey to inevitability rather
than silly choices. It's an interesting idea - imagine you had the soul
of a murderer locked inside you and you weren't at all aware. As for
the victims, knowing that you were meant to die in a repeat incident
wouldn't be a comforting thought now, would it? Bug is different
though. He seems to be a fractured soul, the good soul of his father
who is gathering the pieces of souls from the victims, keeping them
from truly dying. As I've said, interesting.

However, in amongst all the philosophy and social pariah fun, there are
a heap of bad points. Firstly, there doesn't seem to be that much at
stake. Bug's transformation from meek and innocent to strong and in
charge isn't powerful enough to really get you behind him like you
would Nancy or Sidney. The deaths of the students, although it's meant
to be unfair that they were singled out from birth to die aren't
shocking and you never really feel that they're fighting to live.
Secondly, the set pieces aren't at all remarkable and apart from the
discovery of one body beside a temple which results in the only real
cat and mouse scene, there's nothing to really remember or go "wow" at.
Horror needs location, it's integral to the feel. Fred Krueger's boiler
room in dreamland; the town in Haiti; Stu's farmhouse with Hallowe'en
playing on the telly; all were integral to the films. Finally, the
movie is a bit confusing. The ideas are never fully explored, leaving
audiences entirely at a loss to understand if it's a by the numbers
slasher or something deeper. Bug's unique skill is barely hinted
at(even if there are a lot of scenes involving him mimicking his
friends) and it makes it hard to understand just what he's on about
during his confrontation with the ripper. Oh, and the Asian dude gets
it first.

But thankfully, Craven injects his film with his own unique ways. On
scene involving a bird costume in a classroom is creepier than you'd
expect thanks to Craven's expert directing skills. He's assembled a
talented cast of young (YOUNG) actors. Brittany, Fang, Alex and Bug are
well crafted characters who are played believably. The supporting cast
of teens do well with their very limited dialogue and characters. He
also delivers us a horrific bad guy who grunts more than Leatherface
and murders just as violently. Some crackling dialogue between brother
and sister and foster mother gives it the feeling of being more than
just a horror movie (which is what you expect from Craven) and a lot of
irreverent high school jinx give us some laughs before the carnage
ensues.

Overall, not a bad movie but certainly a mediocre Craven one.
<|_=00=_|>
The story of 'My Soul to Take' focuses on the sleepy little town of
Riverton, a place made famous for a serial killer dubbed the Riverton
Ripper who, sixteen-years prior to the film's events, roamed the town,
eluding the police and viciously hunting down townspeople. Eventually,
he was caught, but never brought to justice. The same night of the
Ripper's capture & supposed death, seven children (later to be called
'The Riverton Seven') are born prematurely & simultaneously in the
town. Now, in present day, Riverton still feels uneasy about the
possibility of the Ripper's return, even those who believe he's dead.
These worries are brought to life when one of the Riverton Seven is
found dead, sending the town into a panic. Could it be possible that
the Ripper is back? Or is there another madman on the loose taking his
place on the sixteen-year anniversary of the Ripper's downfall?

It must be difficult to release new horror films as Wes Craven or
virtually any legendary filmmaker. He started his career with a bang
releasing two of the most famous horror films of the 1970s, 'Last House
on the Left' and 'The Hills Have Eyes.' After that, he had success in
the slasher subgenre with 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' & the 'Scream'
series. Therefore, to release yet another slasher, it's obvious that
there will be comparisons to those important entries in the subgenre.
The problem comes about when the film being compared to the classics
is, let's face it, just really not good at all.

To start out with the positives on 'My Soul to Take,' because there
aren't a whole lot, the concept is pretty interesting. It has kind of a
'Fallen' (1998) feel to it with the possibility that a killer's soul
may have traveled and no one knows whom to trust. There are also some
creative elements to the film that had nothing to do with the plot (the
Condor scene, for one) that added a nice touch to the entertainment
value, though none of them are really important enough to have a
lasting impact on the film's quality. Finally, the acting from the
teens is, surprisingly, pretty darn good. Typically, in a film focusing
on younger kids, you'll get solid (or at least superior) acting from
the adults & subpar performances from the children. Here, the kids were
actually the impressive ones, especially Emily Meade as Fang and Max
Thieriot as Bug, while the adults were pretty much unbearable to watch.

To be fair to the above-mentioned inadequate actors, they didn't have a
lot to work with so that is one excuse they can use to save face. In
fact, this film had some of the most poorly written, stilted, contrived
dialogue you'll find in a wide-release horror film. Not only were the
characters always saying something stupidly embarrassing (especially
the dumb jock Brandon), but the entire third act of the film basically
had the killer & victims fully explaining all the secrets of the film
like a James Bond villain revealing his plan, pretty much assuming that
the entire audience is too stupid to understand the film. Add the
embarrassing dialogue to the completely convoluted story, and this
becomes one of the worst scripts Wes Craven has ever worked with. And
that includes 'Shocker.' And that's the real issue here. If you don't
have a solid script, it's almost impossible to have a solid film. This
was far from solid. While the story wasn't difficult to understand, it
did try too hard to be overly complex. It also had a lot of influence
from Craven's own previous work, some of which seemed like straight
repeated elements of his other films. The awful writing also extended
to the Ripper himself. Similar to Freddy in the later sequels of the
'Elm Street' saga, the Ripper always had some silly one-liner that he
grunted out, each of which being more (unintentionally?) hilarious than
the last. If you're trying to put forth a serious horror film like this
was attempting to be, don't make the killer silly. He's the one
character the audience should NOT be laughing at.

The final gripe to have with this film is the highway robbery that is
the post-converted 3D. It was downright pathetic theft. The effects
were barely noticeable and completely useless. There was literally
almost no difference whatsoever between the 3D & 2D: nothing flying
from the screen, no depth to the images, nothing. Just another way for
the studio to grab another $2-3 from the theatre-goers' pockets.

Overall, it must be said that this film is entertaining. It's never
really boring at all, but a lot of this entertainment came from waiting
for the next ridiculous thing to happen. It's sad to say, but it must
be said. . . if 'Scream 4' isn't a bounceback after this film the way
'Red Eye' was after 'Cursed,' the future for Wes after his illustrious
decades-long career does not look too promising.

Final Verdict: 3.5/10.

-AP3-
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie. I can't understand why so many of the reviews are
negative. I ended up wondering, what movie was everyone else watching?

People are saying it was confusing and hard to follow. It wasn't at
all. It was a great mystery with several possibilities, which were all
great fun to think about as the movie went on. When the end came up,
all was made clear. You just have to have been using your brain through
this movie to get it.

Then there are also those who say "it's a ripoff of Nightmare on Elm
St", and I think, "um, what?" These are the sort of people who say that
any movie with a killer animal of any kind is a ripoff of Jaws. Sure,
in the endless world of horror certain themes can only be done so many
times, but reviews like that are pretty much the same as saying that
all horror movies are just copies of all other horror movies.

Perhaps one just has to have an interest in souls, mythologies, and
pondering possibilities to enjoy this movie. I am a fan of horror all
around, I've seen so many and such a range I couldn't begin to get into
it. I've seen plenty of mindless slashers (including the enjoyable
ones), and more than plenty of crap story lines I wish I hadn't. This
was not one of those, and I liked it.

The acting was good, especially Max Thieriot as Bug. I thought the
twists and turns with Bug were fascinating. They gave the option to
question whether or not people around him were real, or in his head.
Yes, they were real, but it was one of the interesting possibilities I
considered. 

Overall, the movie was very enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
Whew.....everyone's a critic. If you like scary movies....strange,
scary movies.....strange, scary movies with a plot.....strange, scary
movies with a plot and fairly good ending.....then get the popcorn and
have a good time with this one.

Look.....if I took every movie I have ever seen so seriously I had to
dump on it more than enjoy it. Well.....there would be a lot of movies
I would never watch. My Soul To Take is a good movie. It keeps you
wondering, guessing and a little annoyed you didn't see it coming.

Admittedly, I do scroll through the reviews to get an idea of how
people viewed the movie and how they rated it.

I have my own 5 Star system which got this film a 4.5.

If you are new to IMDb.....never, ever take the scoring system to
heart. Even a really BAD film based on reviews will perk my interest to
watch it and see for myself. For those of you who use IMDb
regularly.....this movie didn't earn the 4.7 it got. 

I would have said 8 out of 10 personally......but then that is me.

Please don't throw this one away based on critics who "know the price
of everything and the value of nothing"....Zonker from his guru days.

......enjoy......Cookie Q(:-}
<|_=00=_|>
To fans of Western horror, the name Wes Craven is something of a
legend. This is the guy who created one of the most iconic characters
in horror- Freddy Krueger- in the "Nightmare in Elm Street" series.
This is the guy who had the smarts to turn the genre on its head and
give it a new breath of fresh air in the "Scream" trilogy, and come
next year, quadrology. This is the guy whose horror movies- "The Hills
Have Eyes", "The Last House on the Left" and of course the "Nightmare"
series- are being remade by a new breed of filmmakers eager to be the
next him. 

Naturally then, the fact that "My Soul to Take" is Wes Craven's first
film in five years (since 2005's "Red Eye") and first that the horror-
meister has written and directed in fifteen years comes with certain
expectations. Indeed, all the usual elements of a classic Wes Craven
horror are present- a small town with hidden secrets from the past; a
legend that is the stuff of campfire stories; and hipper-than-thou
teen- speak- but unfortunately this is far from any classic. In fact,
it probably qualifies as one of Wes Craven's career worst, if not the
worst. 

The opening in itself is baffling. A tightly condensed prologue is
meant to set up the legend of the Riverton Ripper, a family man with
multiple personality disorder including a particularly murderous one
that has turned him into the town serial killer. He tries to kill his
pregnant wife, the police rush in and shoot him a couple of times, he
wakes rather miraculously to return the favour, the police fire some
more, then the ambulance crashes on the way to the hospital and he
disappears. Meanwhile on that very night, seven babies are born at the
hospital. 

The catch here is this- each one of his seven souls has taken over one
of the babies, so one of them will eventually turn into a murderer.
It's best you remember this, since the frenzied and convoluted manner
Wes Craven tells the story makes it unnecessarily confusing.
Fast-forward sixteen years later, when the Ripper has become the stuff
of local legend, and a traditional prank played on one of them, Bug
(Max Thierot), goes awry and apparently brings back the Ripper. 

Unfolding entirely over the course of one day, Craven spends the first
half of the film setting up his seven characters- the hot jock (Nick
Lashaway), the sweet hottie (Paulina Olszynski), the religious chick
(Zena Grey), the token Asian (Jeremy Chu), the African American blind
boy (Denzel Whitaker), and Max's best friend Alex (John Magaro)- before
the start of the blodletting. Sadly, none of the characters are any
more than cinematic stereotypes, so whichever order they eventually
meet their death doesn't really matter to the audience. The same goes
for Craven's clumsy writing, his attempts at witty exchanges falling
awfully flat. 

By the time the Ripper comes calling, it's pretty much a case of 'too
little too late'. Aside from not shying away from the gore, Craven
botches any buildup to the climax by piling on the deaths too swiftly.
Before any of the characters understand what is going on, they have
already been off-ed or are in the process of getting off-ed. Even the
extended climax done the Craven way (i.e. several characters trapped in
the house with a killer in their midst a la "Scream") feels derivative
and unconvincing. 

The only consolation therefore is that by the end of the movie, you
won't get a headache from watching the movie in 3D, as folks in the US
would have (the movie is only available in 2D here). But the real
horror is that Wes Craven may have finally, after an illustrious career
stretching almost 40 years, lost his horror mojo. "My Soul to Take" is
a major disappointment from Craven- let's just hope he still remembers
how to make an audience "Scream" next year.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say I've ever been a huge fan of horror movies. There are some 
horror films, like The Shining, that I do enjoy. However, I've never 
really been a fan of your basic teen slasher film that follows the 
formula so expertly skewered in the Scream franchise. The less I say 
about the whole torture porn subgenre, the better. But then there's Wes 
Craven.

I've always thought Craven was a unique vision in horror films. On the 
surface, his films play like your basic formulaic slasher film. But, 
especially in his earlier films, there is something going on beyond the 
surface. The first Nightmare on Elm Street played with notions of 
reality and dreamworld. The Scream movies, as I've mentioned, turned 
genre conventions on their ear. I've even given some praise to Vampire 
in Brooklyn. I always thought it was an interesting twist on the 
vampire tale. One film that both scared the crap out of me and amazed 
me was New Nightmare. Craven goes all meta, with original Elm Street 
scream queen Heather Langenkamp playing herself, being terrorized by a 
real-world incarnation of Freddy Krueger.

His more recent films have been a little lackluster, but I was still 
looking forward to (well, warily looking forward to) My Soul To Take, 
his latest effort. It's also the first film he's made that he also 
wrote since New Nightmare. Unfortunately, My Soul to Take is fairly 
run-of-the-mill in terms of its story and surprisingly tame as a horror 
film.

Like his other films, My Soul to Take seems like a by-the-numbers 
slasher film with some supernatural elements thrown in. Seven children 
are born on the day a local serial killer is killed. "The Ripper" as he 
is called by media had killed seven people. We find out the Ripper is a 
mild-mannered family man who happens to suffer from schizophrenia. He 
doesn't remember his murderous rampages. When he tries to kill himself, 
the murderous Ripper takes over. Carnage ensues. Skip forward 16 years. 
The Ripper returns and begins killing the now-teenaged children one by 
one. The idea is that the seven original victim's souls found refuge in 
the seven babies. The Ripper's soul is believe to have taken refuge in 
one of the babies as well.

The seven teenagers are straight out of the stock high school character 
yearbook. There's the oversexed jock Brandon (Nick Lashaway), the 
pretty girl Brittany (Paulina Olszyinski), the strange religious girl 
Penelope (Zena Grey), the geeky Alex (John Magaro), token black (and 
blind!) kid Jerome (Denzel Whitaker) and the token Asian Jay (Jeremy 
Chu). Then there's the meek Bug (Max Thieriot), who has suffered from 
horrible nightmare and migraine headaches since he was a child. He's 
the weirdo of the group and wow, does Craven ever pound on that 
particular nail.

The story does make some attempts to connect the events going on with 
Native American and Haitian spiritualism, but does it in a totally 
conflicting way. The true identity of the killer is telegraphed very 
early on, taking a lot of the thrill out of the film. Also, if people 
were offended by my labeling the two minority characters as token, keep 
in mind that Mr. Chu is in the film for just a little over five minutes 
before he is shuffled off the mortal coil. Mr. Whitaker fare a little 
better. He makes it to the final reel. Here's the thing, he is not at 
all the part of the story. He shows up from time to time to scare the 
bullies away from Bug, but other than that, HE'S NOT IN THE MOVIE AT 
ALL.

Max Thieriot is adequate as Bug, the character the movie centres 
around. Bug is troubled and as the other teens die, he begins to absorb 
their souls. At least, I think that is what we're supposed to believe. 
Bug starts acting all twitchy and repeats things the others said to him 
before he died, usually with some sort of affectation to his voice. In 
any case, it's very unclear.

The movie has been the 3D conversion treatment. I don't know why. 
Nothing comes off the screen and everything looks dark. Aside from a 
means for the studio to jack up the weekend gross due to the premium 
for 3D films, I can't imagine why they did it with this movie.

One thing about the movie that I did think effective was the knife used 
by The Ripper. When I first saw it, I immediately thought of Freddy 
Krueger's razor glove. It looked mean and nasty and very painful. That, 
at least, gave me a little shudder.

<|_=00=_|>
First things first, I work at a theater, and when I received the hard
drive for this movie, it said and I quote, to make sure that "we honor
Wes Craven and give our viewers the best viewing experience we can."
Psh, the viewers will be begging for their money back after watching
it.

Can Wes Craven not make a good film anymore? That's how it appears. The
movie started off with a very neat introduction, making the movie seem
like it had potential. But after that, I was basically wondering when
this awfulness would end. 

The storyline after the introduction until the end did not make sense.
It almost felt like there was no script for the movie and instead they
improv'd it. And since they film movies out of order, there was no way
it would make sense.

Oh, and let's hit on the characters. We have the Jesus freak, the sort
of mentally challenged boy, the slut, the slutty boy, the mean girl,
the awkward weirdo, and the blind kid (who I didn't even know was blind
until halfway through the movie). 

Did this movie need to be in 3D? N to the O. NOTHING comes out at you;
it's just a way to scam moviegoers out of their hard-earned money.

So please, DO NOT see this movie. Ever. It's not even worth renting.
<|_=00=_|>
I still can't believe that this movie was written AND directed by Wes
Craven. We can all agree that Wes Craven can make great films, he's
done it so many times. He's responsible for the revival of the genre
back in the 90's with Scream and his movies are genuine classics... but
this movie isn't even in the so-bad-it's-good territory, it's just
plain bad.

Just a side bar here for a second, Wes Craven is the man that made me
fell in love with horror, the Scream series was the first set of horror
films I ever watched and he has been a constant in my love of the
genre. Last House on the Left was so scary that I still can't watch it
again, Hills Have Eyes was hard to follow, but scary and kept me going.
Hell I even liked Red Eye and Cursed, they weren't great movies but
they at least had a few good scares and were clearly made with love.

My Soul To Take has none of that in it. There's none of the originality
that Nightmare On Elm Street had, the tension that Wes perfected in
Last House On The Left is completely missing, the desire to understand
the movie I felt when watching Hills Have Eyes is long gone here and
the creativity and intellect that was in scream is non-existent.

This movie had nothing good to offer at all.

The characters were so forgettable that I can't even describe them,
even if I wanted too The plot was overly complex, and not in a cool
Inception kind of way. I can handle complex plots, but make it
worthwhile... 7 kids being born on the same day as the main villain was
killed sounds cool, till you realize that it's not that they were born
at the same TIME he was killed, but the same day... there are thousands
upon thousands of people born every day, and these specific 7 are the
ones he goes after.

The dialog sucks, plain and simple. When you have lines like "No, it's
not okay, what I did. It's not okay for everybody to be killing each
other all the time" and " Did she tell you not to worry if somebody you
thought was dead just might come back alive? If he was evil enough?"
then there is no way I can take you seriously. No one in the history of
the world has ever talked like this in reality, these lines sound like
they belong in a 14 year olds screenplay that he wrote the night before
he handed it in for a school assignment.

The scares are non existent, I didn't even jump once. Now this could
just be that I'm desensitized because I watch a lot of horror movies,
but on the other hand that is usually the intended audience for a
horror flick... people who love the genre. If I'm not jumping in my
seat a little when I'm watching a horror movie then there is something
wrong there.

All in all this movie is not worth your time, just hope that Wes does
better next time because this is easily his lowest low
<|_=00=_|>
I expect so much more from Wes Craven. The 3D was an afterthought as
there is nothing even remotely jarring about any of the scenes in this
movie. And what happened to the scenes in the trailer??? There are at
least two that aren't in the film! If I had bothered to look at the
survey cards being handed out on entry, I would have gotten the tip-off
that this is going to be a honker. It asked, among other things, the
following: Did you like this movie? Would you buy it on DVD? These
questions are no-brainers for Wes Craven films. This is the first bomb
from him (for me) and I hope it will be the last. If you were a teen or
pre-teen attending the original NIghtmare on Elm Street then this one
is not for you. Trust me.
