
I have never been much of a fan of The Rock. My love of professional
wrestling tapered off around the time I was about 15 years old, and
that was before The Rock's heydey. His movies (the ones I have seen)
have been marginal at best in my opinion. But for a guy who was ushered
into the field of acting to capitalize on his popularity and not to win
Academy Awards, he has come a long way from The Scorpion King. What I
liked about "Snitch" is it's the anti-action movie. I expected a movie
like the terrible "Last Stand" starring Ah-nold Schwarzenegger. I
expected fabricated car chases and shootouts where the bad guys must be
shooting blanks because they are unable to shoot the good guy even when
they have a clear shot. I expected scenes where The Rock would beat up
10 guys who all take turns coming at him instead of simply jumping him.
But "Snitch" was different. It's a story of the lengths a father will
go to help his son. I don't want to give away any spoilers but he goes
very far. The Rock -- he's credited as Dwayne Johnson (I guess so
viewers take the movie seriously) -- is very believable and does
himself proud with some consistent good acting. He shows the
trepidation and vulnerability of a father who puts his life on the line
to save his son, who is imprisoned after committing a dumb crime. But
the actor who steals the movie is John Bernthal, who plays an ex-con
trying to live an honest life but is dragged back to the dark side in
order to help The Rock, whom he works for doing construction. Michael
Kenneth Williams will forever be known as "Omar" and is typecast but
does a good turn as a drug dealer. The other supporting cast, including
Susan Sarandon as a district attorney, are excellent. "Snitch" moves at
a deliberate pace, which gives it more of a natural and believable
feel. The few action sequences are good and do not seem overly
exaggerated. I will go out on a limb and say this movie will not be
nominated for Best Picture, but compared with the junk I've seen so far
this year (including the latest Die Hard), I recommend "Snitch".
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to be somewhat vague about the plot to not give away
anything.

My wife and I decided we wanted to go see a movie, both of us enjoy
action movies and both of us enjoy Dwayne Johnson as an actor. Neither
of use really thought it was going to be anything but a bunch of
explosions, gun fights, and ass-whippings. I was amazingly surprised at
how far Johnson has come in his acting ability since Mummy 2/Walking
Tall. He showed real and believable emotions in his interactions with
his "family" and others. Jon Bernthal was the perfect choice for his
role. He showed even with this supporting role he is ready to be a
major lead in my opinion. Susan Sarandon played her job as a career
politician to the absolute limit. 

If you are looking for a generic action movie, go see Die-Hard. If you
want to see the story of how far parents will go for their children see
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie marks the departure of Dwayne Johnson from action actor to
dramatic actor and the transformation works. Johnson demonstrates a
surprising aptitude for dramatic acting as his character struggles with
a number of distressing issues. The problem with the movie is the
story. It's premise is implausible. The main character's son is busted
on drug charges and he is in fact guilty, which makes him a far less
sympathetic character. Nevertheless, that doesn't stop his father,
played by Johnson, from coming to his son's assistance, albeit as
unbelievable as it, and the entire movie hinges on the audience having
to believe that the son is a victim, which he is not. If a movie needs
a victim, then the victim should in fact be a victim. Another
interesting character is the drug dealer played by Benjamin Bratt who
plays the role effectively. Susan Sarandon and Barry Pepper also
provide excellent performances as an ambitious DA and an undercover
vice police officer respectively. Despite the flaws in the story, this
is still a good movie and one that is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Dwayne Johnson better known has The Rock, was thought of to be like
another Arnold Schwarzenegger, a muscle bound action hero who acts
tough and shouts out funny one liners. But then he did the movie
Gridiron Gang(2006),and my opinion of him changed, he took a little
departure from action films, and took a stab at drama, and he gave a
pretty descent performance, and he showed that he can act.

John(Dwayne Johnson) has his own construction business, is also happily
married with a daughter. But Johns happy life is quickly turned upside,
when his teenage son from another marriage is arrested for drug
possession, cause a friend set him up. John not wanting to sit back and
do nothing, is determined to get him out of prison. He volunteers to go
undercover to infiltrate a drug cartel in hopes that it will get his
son out of prison, with the help of U.S. Attorney(Susan Sarandon) and a
D.E.A. agent(Barry Pepper), but will John pull it off? 

I disagree with the critics, I thought the crime drama was very real.
And when it was getting intense, you the audience feel it also. Dwayne
Johnson gives a great performance, like he did in Gridiron Gang. You
won't think of him as The Rock, but Dwayne Johnson the actor. Barry
Pepper is good, so is Susan Sarandon.
<|_=00=_|>
Snitch is a searing indictment against the current drug laws and the
fact that the draconian principles behind them. As we see in this film
it forces those ensnared to become police informants on friends to get
themselves out of a jackpot. Young Rafi Gavron gets himself in such a
jackpot as a friend who does deal drugs sets Gavron up beautifully with
enough Ecstasy to guarantee at least 10 years in Federal Penitentiary.

Young Gavron can work his way out of his jackpot, but the problem is
that other than the kid who set him up, he doesn't know anyone in the
illegal drug trade. 

Dwayne Johnson is the kid's father and a working man who owns a
construction company. He's divorced from Melina Kanakaredes, Gavron's
mother and now he's got a second wife and child. Still he sees US
Attorney Susan Sarandon and she's small comfort. She's running for
elective office and is looking to get some big drug fish as notches on
the prosecutorial gun.

So Johnson volunteers to bring in the big fish himself. Now he offers
the use of his trucks to be drug couriers. But Sarandon and DEA agent
Barry Pepper keep him in the game hoping for a bigger fish. Soon enough
its one of the biggest fishes out there, a veritable whale in Mexican
cartel leader Benjamin Bratt.

For action fans Snitch will definitely satisfy you. But also Dwayne
Johnson creates a real character not a superhero. He's just an average
man who is really putting himself in harm's way for his son.

The film reminds me a lot of both versions of 3:10 To Yuma where Van
Heflin and Christian Bale are just citizens pressed into some
disagreeable action like Johnson for the forces of law and order. There
are also elements of the Robert Mitchum classic The Friends Of Eddie
Coyle where Mitchum gets caught in the switches between the law and his
criminal pals and is forced into the role of informer. The difference
is that Mitchum is a petty crook and Johnson's a stand-up guy.

Susan Sarandon will chill you no end as the ambitious US Attorney who
knows these laws are foul, but will use them for her own purposes. Also
Barry Pepper as the law enforcement professional has some qualms and
conscience. But even he's looking for the big bust and is willing to
put Johnson on the line for it.

Snitch deals with the federal drug laws, but here in New York we
pioneered that with the draconian Rockefeller drug laws. The sooner
they're repealed the better, but we have to get through to some
politicians who parade their law and order credentials by sponsoring
such things.

This is a film both entertaining and informative and a real triumph for
Dwayne Johnson.
<|_=00=_|>
Dwayne "the rock" Johnson hands down did an amazing job portraying the
father who would go to any length to save his son! I wasn't expecting
this movie to be this good but it had me. I wanted to immediately know
what was going to happen next. Although this movie doesn't seem so
realistic it is very intense and you want to know how each scene is
going to turn out. If you are looking for a good action packed drama
then this movie is definitely for you. I would recommend to go see this
movies while it's out in theaters. It is by far a great entertaining
movie and the characters believability in the movie is great! Although
if you are a critic on films which aren't realistically possible then
maybe this isn't for you. But overall I would give the rocks
performance in this film an A.
<|_=00=_|>
I expected this to be a more physical type of movie, more suited to The
Rock, but it actually wasn't that at all. He plays the role of a dad
caught between two rival gangs: the DEA and a drug cartel. The stakes:
get his son out from prison where he pretty much was tricked into
entering.

The part that I felt most vividly about was this dirty aspect of the
law called Minimum Mandatory Sentencing. A kid receives a package from
a friend, filled with MDMA pills and then is caught by the police. The
law required that he either rat somebody out or serve a minimum of 10
years in jail. That pretty much is the end of life for an 18 year old
kid. I wonder, what if Dwayne Johnson's character would have been a
tough muscle guy with a lot of guns? Wouldn't he feel it "mandatory" to
kill at least two prosecutors?

The bottom line is that the movie had, beside the obvious thriller
action bit, a deeper message about rigid laws that force, nothing more
than the threats to your family that a gangster would use. I quite
liked the film. The quality of it, though, was more like that of a TV
movie. It must have been low budget, or at least it looked like that.
Besides some of the names in the cast and the message I was talking
about above, it was quite ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film alone, on a lazy Saturday to get my mind off
things. I wasn't expecting much, but I didn't want it to be a waste of
11 bucks. Knowing the market of action/thriller blockbusters, I guess I
was expecting cars blowing up, gun fights all through the movie, and
some crazy, somewhat unrealistic hand to hand combat by our huge friend
Dwayne Johnson. I was expecting you're average, predictable "normal
citizen suddenly becomes Jason Bourne" type action packed movie. If
you're expecting that, and ONLY that, you will be somewhat
disappointed. Lucky for me, I am a huge film buff and am open to
sitting through any movie of any type and I just look for something
entertaining, and this movie did not disappoint in that regard. The
first hour and a half of it can legitimately be classified as more of a
suspense-drama than a thriller. The screenplay wasn't anything amazing,
but I do think Dwayne Johnson might have thrown himself in the eye of
some producers and directors who write him off as no talent. His acting
made the movie as believable as it was, and along with some of the
supporting characters, and gritty suspenseful situations, this film
found a way to intrigue me more than I thought it would have. The quote
at the end of the film spoke volumes as to what the message of the
movie was, and I think it was very well put together. If you're going
to see this movie solely for action/entertainment value, then you might
not be so happy with your investment, but if you want a well rounded,
legitimate movie to go when you're bored or with a friend, I would
recommend Snitch.
<|_=00=_|>
I would normally expect to see Dwayne Johnson in either a silly comedy
(Tooth Fairy) or an action packed drama (the upcoming G.I. Joe:
Retaliation). This film was neither. There was not a lot of action in
this film; it was more of a psychological thriller. I did not think
that I would really like this film and I have to say that I was
pleasantly surprised. The trailer told the main gist of the film where
John Matthew's (Dwayne Johnson) son is wrongly imprisoned and John will
do anything to get him released. He strikes a deal with Joanne Keeghan
(Susan Sarandon) who is the federal prosecutor, to help catch bad guys.
In order to even get starting in figuring out how he is going to help
Jason (Rafi Gavron), John has to get introduced to the dark side (so to
speak). He discovers that one of his new employees, Daniel James (Jon
Bernthal) may have some insight and so the partnership begins. The
roller-coaster ride that these two take definitely keeps the story
interesting. With the introduction of the cartel and its regional
leader Juan Carlos "El Topa" Pintera (Benjamin Bratt), things really
start to heat up. I can tell you this much, by the time you get to the
middle of the film you will be thinking, how the heck is he going to
get himself out of this mess. This film is supposedly based on a true
story; if that is true than our legal system has gone hay-wire and some
laws should really be amended. I think that the film succeeded in
delivering the message that it intended to deliver. I just want to add
that it was hard to see the "Rock" as a guy who really didn't know how
to fight, but he is still pretty easy on the eyes. This film was pretty
fast-paced and there were not a lot of lull moments (although there
were a couple), which gives the film added appeal. I am glad to see
Dwayne stretching his wings. Is he ready to do Hamlet? No, but he was
not terrible in this film. I think that former stunt coordinator turned
director; Ric Roman Waugh did a halfway decent job for his major film.
Kudos! Although I am teetering between amber and green for this film, I
am going to go ahead and give this film a green light.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey guys, I'm giving this 7 out of 10. I liked it! Good setup and good
follow-through.

When a friend offers to send him a package of ecstasy pills, teenager
Jason Collins (Rafi Gavron) is more than a little reluctant, but still
curious. He accepts, and bam, he's arrested for drug distribution and
sentenced to 10 years. Kid's doomed unless he sells out somebody else,
which he can't. He knows nobody in the drug scene. End of the line? Not
if his dad John Matthews can help it. Good old man of action Dwayne
"The Rock" Johnson slips into the market to sell the baddies out
himself, and a tight action thriller ensues. "Snitch" delivers a solid
plot, tension, drama and effective action in the right places. At the
same time, it raises interesting observations about US drug laws.

"Inspired by true events," one of the first lines on the screen said.
Oh well, I thought. Another one of those. Sells better, huh? Then, I
learned about those true events going on in the US legal system. Wait a
minute, a boy is caught with a box of ecstasy pills  no evidence he
wanted to sell them, no criminal record  and he gets a mandatory
minimum of 10 years in jail?! Um... This is a country where pedophiles
and rapists can go free.

It reminded me of an interview with US economist Jeffrey Miron that,
just a coincidence, I'd read the same day in German newspaper "Der
Spiegel". Legalize drugs already, he says. Portugal did it, and they're
fine! People here take them anyway! The nation could save tons of
money, crime rates would go down, less people would die. Interesting, I
thought as I watched the movie. Instead, there's expensive drug laws
possibly doing more harm than good.

I was impressed with the detail put into the main characters. Matthews
has two families: his ex-wife and son, and his current wife and little
daughter. We see the effects of his actions - past, as a bad father,
and present, as a drug informant  on both sides. We are also
introduced to a ex-convict colleague he teams up with, that guy's
family and the effects on them when things get tough. A rich plot and
lot of tension derive from these back stories.

To boot, Susan Sarandon deserves special mention as the US District
Attorney on the kid's case. Introduced as a cold, cynical bitch, she
alternates between law enforcement, her agenda as a candidate for
Congress, and eventually doing the right thing. But is it for the right
reasons? She's an interesting character I could never completely
dislike. Very nice performance.

All that said, "Snitch" isn't a deep masterpiece of modern cinema.
Although slow-paced, it's designed as an action movie, with flashy
stunts, a big ol' shootout and fist fights. The writing is effect-
conscious, and so is the shaky-cam direction.

Looking around the Internet, I see "Snitch" receiving mixed reviews.
Personally, I think this movie is well above average. Seeing it in the
wake of the random and bad "A Good Day to Die Hard", I'll admit I was
on the lookout for "this is how it's done, bitches" moments. Here are
some: "The Rock" delivers a good performance in a rare serious role, a
solid cast supports him, there's thought in the plot, characters are
well- drawn with fleshed-out back stories, and they develop. Tangible
stakes amount to "Breaking Bad"-level suspense, and you get
well-placed, effective action scenes. Overall, "Snitch" makes for an
evening well spent.
