
I saw this at a sneak preview showing knowing very little about the
film other than one preview.

This film is along the same lines as "Knocked Up" or "Superbad" in that
it is rather funny, but at the same time makes you relate to the
characters in a way that also tugs at your heart. There were many times
when the theater full of people burst into laughter, and I even found
myself crying at some points I was laughing so hard! The actors all do
a fantastic job with their parts, and you can easily identify with most
of them. (No "over the top" characters ever do a hostile takeover of
the plot.) This movie is probably a notch below movies like "The
Hangover," "The 40 Year Old Virgin" and "Wedding Crashers," but it
definitely holds it own and you will most definitely find yourself
laughing hard more than once. Well worth the $$ to see it in the
theater!
<|_=00=_|>
"She's out of My League" is a solid 7, a romantic comedy that scores a
few good laughs and does a nice job of being convincing. Jay Baruchel
(Tropic Thunder) stars as Kirk, a pathetic dork with the build of Woody
Allen who works a menial job in airport security. Through a cell-phone
mishap, he winds up at a party being thrown by Molly (Alice Eve), a 10
on the very attractive scale. He knows she's way more attractive than
him and she knows he's normally not the guy she would usually date but
Molly looks deep down and sees Kirk for the nice, unthreatening guy he
is and they hit it off. There are some funny moments here. Kirk's
family is especially demeaning to him (they even embrace his bitchy
ex-girlfriend as one of their own) and his friends are clueless
match-makers, which leads to a very funny man-scaping scene between
Kirk and one of them. What works best in "League" is just listening to
people talk though. Kirk's friends (played by Mike Vogel, Nate
Torrance, and T.J Miller) are identifiable idiots, too wrapped up in
over-thinking things like the rating scale (both their number and
womens) and Disney fairy-tales to really understand women. Their scenes
with Kirk are enjoyably like a crude, vulgar, sexual "Breakfast Club".
The way the scrawny, nervous, and unconfident Baruchel interacts with
the beautiful and engaging Eve is also very likable and they do a nice
job of handling the ups and downs of forming an honest, meaningful
relationship (an almost foreign concept in today's star-packaged
romantic comedies). The way they finally handle the elephant in the
room is also very effective. This is feel-good stuff, but it works.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Molly (Alice Eve) is a sexy event planner who is delayed by
a sleazy airport security guard. Another security guard, Kirk (Jay
Baruchel) comes to her rescue, and passes her through to catch her
plane. Luckily, Kirk finds Molly's phone that she left behind, and from
the plane, Molly calls her phone and invites Kirk to a party to return
her phone when she returns. Kirk is smitten by Molly, but his friends
point out to him that he doesn't have a chance, because he is only
rated as a "5" and Molly is definitely a "10". And as everybody knows,
you can only date a girl who is only "2" above your score, so that
means Kirk can only successfully date a "7". However, Molly has
something else in mind, because she has found that Kirk is sweet,
amusing, honest, and different from the men she has been dating. Kirk,
on the other hand, has one big insecurity problem; Kirk believes Molly
will dump him as soon as she realizes her mistake. Under these
circumstances, and everything working against Kirk and Molly, is it
possible for them to build a relationship that will bloom and flourish? 

(My Comment) This is an unlikely love story that is a really sweet
romantic comedy. You would think that it is a women's movie, but it
actually is a guy's movie, because it gives the "5s" of the world the
belief that they have a chance to catch and have a relationship with a
"10". The trailers portray that there are a lot of raunchy sex scenes
in the movie, but actually, it is more your imagination then the real
thing. The story does show and prove that a person with low self esteem
will have a hard time in life fulfilling his dream. Hopefully, people
who saw this movie will take this lesson of life to heart and go for
the gold, or in this case a "10". Jay Baruchel's performance as the
quirky geek was right on target, and Alice Eve's portrayal of Molly
made her very likable. Both actors characterization of the low
self-image problem was very believable. This is one of those
hilariously funny love stories that could be a sleeper hit. I laughed
throughout the whole movie, and left the movie in a happy mood.
(Paramount, Run Time 1:44, Rated R)(7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes ads can be misleading. It's like when you see an attractive
person from far away and the closer they get the less attractive they
become. The ads are selling a raunchy sex comedy where the hot lead
actress is going to take her top off. That isn't the case, however.
Yes, there is a make-out scene between the two stars where the male
lead...has an accident. And there's also a shaving scene that will
rival the one from the third American Pie. Aside from those two scenes
and a few others, the movie is actually a really sweet romantic comedy.

It's about Molly (Alice Eve), a sexy event planner who gets harassed at
the airport by a sleazy employee. Luckily, Kirk (Jay Baruchel), another
employee, comes to her rescue. Kirk is dopey-looking, skinny, and a bit
of a push-over. He's a 5, according to his friends. Yet, Molly, whose a
hard 10, finds him amusing and a perfect gentlemen. Soon, to the
surprise of many, they start dating. They like each other and get along
fine, but their friends keep questioning the relationship and giving
them self-doubt. Kirk is constantly reminded that he's a 5 and she's a
10. It goes against all logic. Molly is constantly reminded that she
only went out with him in the first place because he is safe. Her
previous boyfriend, also a 10, broke her heart and now she's with
someone whose in no position to do that. So, does she really like (or
love) him? If there's one flaw to this film it's that the filmmakers
(or studio) went for the R-rating just for the sake of appearing edgy
during the marketing. Anyone expecting The 40-Year-Old Virgin is going
to be disappointed. Although the raunchy scenes are funny. They just
stick out and disrupt the tone. In a way, this movie is like The Girl
Next Door. Elisha Cuthbert played a porn star that needs to be rescued
by her nerdy next door neighbor (Emile Hirsch). Yet, she's not naked
and doesn't do any wild sex scenes. It's a waste of a concept. A
regular PG-13 comedy about two teenagers from opposite worlds that fall
in love would have been just fine. It wouldn't have sold any tickets,
but it would have been honest. So, remember, if you decide to see this
film it's pretty tame and a lot more girly than the ads are willing to
admit. It's a really good date movie, but not one you want to see only
with your friends.
<|_=00=_|>
Expectations weren't exactly through the roof for SOOML. No big name
actors, a director with no feature film experience and a screenplay by
the same guys who brought us Sex Drive. It is with great delight then,
that what we get is 100 minutes of laughter and light-hearted
entertainment. Is it clichéd? Sure is. We've seen the 'underdog gets
the girl' story repetitively since the dawn of cinema, but at least
scripters John Morris and Sean Anders inject it with humorous
variations to ensure we forgive their shortcomings in originality.

Jay Baruchel was another unknown quantity. His supporting turns in
Knocked Up, Fanboys, Tropic Thunder and Million Dollar Baby (remember
the weakling who frequented the boxing hall despite his complete lack
of talent  that was Baruchel) have provided laughs galore, but being
the main star is different altogether. His geeky exterior and small
frame isn't exactly leading man material however Baruchel's great comic
timing and willingness to make a fool of himself if required makes him
a likable headliner.

On the opposite end of the gender pole is the drop-dead gorgeous Alice
Eve who, like Molly, is a hard ten. It's not just her looks that makes
her popular with the men though, she's genuinely cool and doesn't have
a whiff of ego. Elsewhere in the cast you'll find the previously
unknown T.J. Miller as Kirk's best mate Stainer  a character who
resembles Napoleon Dynamite if he were on crack cocaine  who delivers
a handful of memorable one-liners and plenty of laugh-out-loud moments.

A charismatic cast and some hilarious jokes makes this a surprising
winner.

3.5 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 -
Classic)
<|_=00=_|>
I mean She's Out of My League is right up there with The 40 year old
Virgin(2005), and I Love You, Man(2009), a raunchy vulgar comedy that
manages to have a heart to it. I mean Role Models(2008), hardly had
anybody likable in it, and it was a big hit, and i'm still trying to
figure that one out. But this film had two likable leads that you wanna
route for.

Kirk(Jay Baruchel from Knocked Up), works at at an airport, he's a nice
guy, but painfully shy and insecure. His buddies that he works with say
thats because women don't consider him boyfriend material, cause he is
too safe. But all that changes one day when the ever so enchantingly
beautiful Molly(Alice Eve) forgets her cell phone, while boarding a
plane, she uses her friends cell phone to call her cell phone, and Kirk
finds it and answers it, she asks him can he hold it for her. Kirk
brings it back to her, Alice soon wants to spend more time with Kirk.
But will Kirk insecurities ruin it? 

The critics are quick to bash this movie, but give Role Models a thumbs
up, go figure. I liked Jay Baruchel and Alice Eve they where characters
to route for, and where very enjoyable to watch, although Baruchel was
more funnier then Eve, the comedy just happened around her. Lindsay
Sloane(Big Red from Bring It On) is also good has Marnie, Kirks ex.
Krysten Ritter is also amusing as Patty, Mollys friend. But the real
scene stealer IS T.J. Miller has Kirks friend Stainer, who steals
almost every moment when every scene he is in, he's like Jason Segal
and Seth Rogen mixed together.

I say don't listen to the critics, see this movie and form your own
opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from seeing this movie, and I have to admit that I
really enjoyed it. Possibly because I wasn't expecting to, but I also
wasn't against giving it a chance. To me, the commercials did not look
very promising, and when it was compared to the hangover in one ad, I
really wasn't expecting much. First of all, when I went to see the
hangover, I was ready to laugh like crazy due to how funny everyone
said it was. Personally, I didn't find it very funny at all and I
always felt the writers/actors were trying too hard make a joke out of
everything. The only thing that kept my attention was the
semi-interesting plot.

I found the ads for She's Out of My League to be promising a "hangover
clone" (in terms of the type of humor). Thankfully this movie is not
what it appears to be. Many will disagree, but I felt that there is
more reason for watching this than for a constant need to be funny and
outrageous. I also liked the character in this movie, and found they
added a lot to the story.

Although this movie offers nothing we haven't seen before, I found it
at least to be enjoyable. Another reason I liked this movie is because
I felt there was a storyline that made up for most of the jokes I
didn't find funny.

I know that most will find it to be a pointless movie (and I guess it
is to an extent), but I found it to be entertaining and worth seeing.
I'm glad I wasn't expecting to be laughing throughout the whole movie,
because I didn't, and because I found it to be a little more than what
I was expecting from the plot.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into the early screening of this movie tonight with low
expectations, having not heard much about the movie, nor seen any
trailers. I was floored! The cast is great in their parts and the
script is hilarious. If you like any of the Judd Apatow films (I don't
think he was a part of this movie, but it is the same kind of humor)
then you will like this one. Fans of Knocked Up will recognize Jay
BarucheI who plays the awkward lead with weak self esteem, and he is as
cute as ever. I also had a chance to meet the lovely Alice Eve, who
attended the screening and she was very nice and very beautiful. I hope
to see more of her in the future. While this wasn't Shakespeare, it was
a great laugh and very fun to see with friends.
<|_=00=_|>
In all honesty, I have no idea why I went to see this movie. It clearly
falls in one of the most clichéd of all film genres and stars only one
person I have ever heard of. But I went to see it anyway and I was glad
I did.

I think I liked it mostly because of the leads. I liked the guy because
he never tried to impress the girl, he was just himself, even when it
was painful and difficult to do so, and I liked the girl because once
you got past her looks, you found an interesting person underneath.

The other big reason I liked it was because it managed to take one of
the oldest romantic clichés ever--racing to the airport to declare your
love before that Perfect Someone leaves--and put a nice twist on it.
Kudos to the writers on that one, that alone was worth several points
on this scale.

This is actually one of the better movies I've seen this year, I highly
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
In Pittsburgh, the clumsy and average Kirk (Jay Baruchel) works as a
TSA security agent at the airport. Kirk is out of shape, uncoordinated,
not college graduate, has never been in Europe and drives a shitbox
Neon. His friends are a bunch of losers that also work at the airport
and use to rank themselves and women. His family does not support him
and his father used his college money to build a large swimming pool in
the backyard of their house. Kirk dreams on becoming an airplane pilot,
but he is insecure and without self-esteem. He also misses his former
girlfriend Marnie (Lindsay Sloane), who is a bitch that humiliate him
all the time. 

One day, the gorgeous Molly McCleish (Alice Eve) is helped by him in
the check-in to a flight to New York, but she forgets her iphone and
Kirk holds it for her. On the next day, Molly invites Kirk to go to a
party at the Andy Warhol Museum and he delivers her iphone to her.
Sooner they date and he learns that she is a successful promoter of
events that lives in a fancy apartment and drives a nice car. However,
the lack of confidence of Kirk does not let him see that Molly loves
him since she is totally out of his league. 

The delightful "She's Out of My League" is one of the funniest comedies
I have recently seen. Jay Baruchel is hilarious in the role of a man
that has no self-esteem and self-confidence to be happy with one of the
most beautiful women I have ever seen, Alice Eve, who is really a
pretty woman. 

Alice Eve was ranked #7 in 2010 in the "Beautiful Famous Faces" by "The
Annual Independent Critics List of the 100 Most Beautiful Famous Faces
From Around the World." My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Ela é Demais para Mim" ("She is Out of My League")
