
and that would be, entertain.

I can't describe how many times I thought 'whoah!' it's one of those
moments that could only ever happen in cartoons or 'whoa!' that was
anime level crazy! This film set out to create a literal live action
adaptation of a lovable & cheesy retro cartoon anime. That's exactly
what it did.

Let's start with the PG rating, this was appropriate not because this
film is 'aimed' at kids (which it wasn't clearly, as box office
disconnect showed) but because it's a 'family' film for all ages based
on a cartoon that most of the older generation watched when they were
kids, the source material barely even bordered a 12A and yet the film
managed to in fact surpass it's source material in maturity. 

Fans of anime will seriously lap this up despite what the recent
comments have said. Not only has every care been taken to preserve
elements of the source material but it also has those cool retro and
also modern anime moments. Good and bad guys with crazy cartoon anime
hairstyles, crazy over-the-top kung fu, elaborate motion line effects
just like in mangas, crazy death defying races, cheesy as hell dialogue
which fits perfectly in context! Performances were quite impressive
given it's a predominantly 'kids' PG film and that they were filming
against green screen.

I also commend the Wachowski's use of such a strong colour palette.They
didn't tone it down or diverge from the theme and each scene had a
contextual wash of colour.Serious or more intimate moments had darker
shadows while remaining colourfully vibrant. They were bold and not shy
about what this film was going to look like.

To the haters again i say ,'what exactly where you expecting? The
Matrix with cars?, people getting there throats slit?, symbolic
commentary on capitalism,corruption, religion or the new world order?
Go into this movie expecting high adrenaline scenes and all campy fun
that only a 60's anime adaptation can provide, but don't just to go and
watch it just to 'see what the fuss is about' until you actually
understand what the source material was like. That way the movie will
exceed your expectations.

I don't have complete praise for this movie however, in that towards
the end of the film they got a little overboard with the editing and i
was really let down by the final antagonist type drivers. Speed seemed
to have a harder time in the casa cristo race in the film where the
other drivers were far more menacing. It seemed like 'Cannonball
Taylor', 'Gray Ghost' and especially the bad ass, white haired yakuza
driver (for musha motors by the way) were just a flash gone by and
Speed just beat them without any problems at all. Let's hope they make
more of a presence in any semblance of an extended/directors cut
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit that I know, or knew rather, very little about the story
or history of Speed Racer- and his TV series - and maybe that is why I
enjoyed this movie so much. Although, this is still a different type of
situation where one who was a big fan of the shows might be seriously
critical of every little detail of the turned movie. I don't believe
anyone who considers themselves truly knowledgeable about Tatsuo
Yoshida's work can say that this was not represented well on the big
screen. I'm now intrigued to go back and check out some episodes of
Speed Racer.

That aside, as far as it being a movie and a work of art, I would give
this movie high marks in both categories. For it being a movie, it was
nice to see something so different as far as the approach to making it
go. Also, having such an incredible cast makes it all the more
intriguing. I don't see anyone else having portrayed any of these
characters any better than the cast that was hired to do so.

On an artistic level, it is extremely hard to think of any other movie
that comes close to being in the same league. I did not see The Matrix,
but I would say that anyone who liked Sin City for its cinematography
and graphic elements, would love Speed Racer. The use of bright
photography that's added behind a green screen makes for a far more
dramatic effect. 

Take the artistic elements of this movie, and put it together with the
amazing cast (both looks and talent) and throw it together with a very
different but coherent plot, and you've got yourself an extremely
enjoyable movie that is definitely worth seeing. And seeing at the
theater no less! My hats off to The Wachowski Brothers, and the rest of
the cast and crew for putting together something different for a
change.

GO...
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say, it seems that those who hated it were obviously not
doing their homework beforehand to know that SR is not supposed to be a
thought-provoking film like The Matrix. It is based on a wonderfully
simple cartoon with a simple message for kids. If anyone knows anything
about cult fans, they want films to reflect the original medium as much
as possible. Thus, if you go to a children's movie based on a
child-friendly anime, expect it to be such and not some
mind-blowing,challenging film. Especially these days, we need films
like this one to take our minds off the usual violence and such found
in so many other so-called family movies. Take it as it is, a great
family flick for ALL ages to simply enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone around me told me it was going to be terrible. Early reviews
said that it was nothing special. With these planted doubts, I still
went to see it in IMax. As of right now, it is the greatest experience
I have ever had in a movie theater.

This movie was pure fun. The Wachowskis truly know how to take risks.
They just took their art and ran with it. All the actors were terrific.
I especially gives props to the actor who played the youngest Racer
brother. Honestly, I thought that boy would sink the film but after
seeing it, Speed Racer would not have been half as fun without him and
the monkey.

This is most visually stunning film to date, with a climax that
continues to climb and climb. I wanted to jump out of my chair and
cheer for Speed at almost everything. Granted, the film was
predictable, but I didn't care. I still held my breath at all the
moments, asking myself if Speed would be able to pull it off. I've
never smiled through a movie as much as I have with this one in a long
time.

Huge 10/10 for Speed Racer and a big thank you to everyone involved in
making this masterpiece. My kids will be watching this film. If there
is a Speed Racer 2, I am there.
<|_=00=_|>
Above everything else, this movie is a visual feast that stays true to
the cartoon. I think it is really unfortunate that so many critics are
complaining about the visuals in this movie, because I think that they
are truly fantastic. I can safely say that I have never seen another
movie like this one, and I feel that so many movies are going to try to
do what this movie did. A lot of the visuals really are beautiful
bursts of color similar to what you find on the busy streets of Tokyo,
and this movie is aware of that. It is like they took Shibuya and made
it a hundred times as big and colorful. Only someone who has been to
Tokyo will know exactly what the Wachowskis were going for in this
film. After all, it is based on a Japanese TV show.

The acting is somewhat campy, but can also turn that gear into more
serious acting. It can be funny, and then be heartwarming. Lots of the
racing sequences are very over the top, but the movie knows it and does
it well. The tracks are very creative, and I can only imagine how fun
they were to design. If real racing was this exciting, I would watch it
all the time. I can understand why this film made the race tracks so
crazy, because who would really want to see two hours of regular race
tracks with cars going around and around? The sound was also really
impressive in this film. The sounds of the race cars were explosive and
loud and if you see this movie in a good theater, it will make it that
much better. The music is also very fitting and tasteful. Probably the
only time I will hear "Freebird" without being annoyed.

Also the politics in this movie were excellent as well. I feel above
all the message of this movie is that money corrupts art. This movie
portrays Speed as more of an artist than a race car driver. A big
corporation wants to sponsor Speed, but Speed knows that corporations
are evil and are only looking to make more money. He is very dedicated
to his craft, and does not want to sell out. Speed knows that
corporations corrupt art, and so does this movie. You will not see one
piece of product placement in this whole film.

So overall this movie is very self-aware. It wants to entertain, and it
does exactly that. It wants to be different, and it does exactly that.
Don't listen to those wimpy critics that didn't like this film because
it gave them a headache. Many people said the same thing about Moulin
Rogue, and that movie is fantastic too. Critics who complained about
there being too much color should have brought a pacifier with them to
the movies, because only babies would complain about how this film
looks. Race to your theater to see it now.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, what you've got here is a case of audience/critic disagreement.
Obviously, this movie will get bashed by the critics because of its
cartoonish and campy mood, but that's just it: the world shown on
screen by the Wachowski brothers is marvelous. The animation is perfect
for the atmosphere they're trying to create. Don't go in expecting
Matrix-esquire effects, because there aren't any bullet time scenes.
The effects used are so fitting for this movie because they're almost
cartoonish and the movie doesn't take itself too seriously.

The film, an adaptation of the long running Japanese anime, revolves
around natural racing phenomenon Speed (the wonderful Emile Hirsch) and
his family, which somehow includes John Goodman and Susan Sarandon
(whoever pulled off this casting deserves some kind of award). Oh yeah,
and the casting directors managed to get Matthew Fox and Christina
Ricci as well. What really stood out in this area is that everyone
involved really understood the characters and the world that Speed
Racer is supposed to display. It's not supposed to be overly serious,
nor is it supposed to be that realistic either. With the warm
performances of Hirsch, Goodman, and Ricci, you get transported into
another world (isn't that the point of movies anyway?). Matthew Fox is
also great as the mysterious Racer X, whose role is sort of
misconstrued by the previews. He showed a different side that I didn't
think he could on 'Lost'.

The visual effects, as I've said before, aren't going to be
Matrix-esquire, but there are a few "whoa" factor sequences that had my
jaw dropping. I also need to warn you that, if you can't take fast
camera movements or rapid shots, be careful. It's not as bad as
Cloverfield or Blair Witch (because the quickness only occurs in the
race sequences), but I'd still try to grab a seat in the middle or back
of the theater. The film is visually stunning outside of the races
themselves as well. The buildings, the cities, the homes, the cars
themselves...all beautiful.

The Wachowski brothers get an A+ for keeping the movie in the spirit of
the show as much as they could (they really did a great job), however
the film has a major flaw: a runtime of just under 2 and a half hours.
That's a BIG no no for a movie that is obviously marketed towards kids,
unless it has the names "Star Wars" or "Harry Potter" on it. The film
also has a sensual scene or two featuring Ricci and Hirsch, not to
mention occasional language.

My advice: don't listen to the critics, see this movie for the fact
that it's pure entertainment for the audience, and it will take you
away to a visually stunning world for a couple hours. Definitely an
enjoyable movie for the entire family.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally I have never been a fan of the original animated series, and
I wasn't sure what to expect of this movie. After seeing the trailers I
thought it looked kind of cheesy and over-done. After watching this I
realized that the cheesy graphics, work to it's own advantage. This
movie really caught a good look at Live action Speed Racer without
losing the characteristics of the Cartoon. I didn't think even the
Wachowski brothers could pull this off, but as usual, they did.

As far as the actors performances, Emile Hirsch did exceptional, but my
eye was mostly on the brilliant performances by John Goodman, and new
comer Paul Litt who plays Spritle, Speed's mischievous little brother.
I recommend this for the family, don't wait for the DVD get to the
theaters while this stunning cinematography is on the big screen!
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Speed Racer convincingly win a spectacular race nearly besting
his brother Rex's course record is the mysteriously charismatic Racer X
(handsome brooding Matthew Fox). Racer X's beautiful companion tells
him, "He's going to be great." With restrained pride Racer X says, "No,
he's going to be the best" "Speed Racer" was my favorite cartoon
growing up as a kid. Speed Racer was the brave hero. But the truly cool
hero was Racer X. Racer X was the shadowy masked racer, who was Speed's
rival and amazing equal. However, Racer X seemed more Speed's protector
than arch-rival. There is more to the Speed and Racer X dynamic and
mythology that will go unsaid, although fans of this cult classic
already know.

My bud Lauren invited me to a screening of the Wachowski Brothers' live
action adaptation "Speed Racer". I gladly accepted, and told Lauren of
the "Speed Racer" mythos. As both writers and directors, the Wachowski
Brothers brilliantly bring to life the world of "Speed Racer". "Speed
Racer" has a visually distinctive style all its own. The vibrant colors
and breathtaking CGI racing sequences enthrall with velocity and
emotion. There is even homage to a scene from the animated series as
Speed's Mach 5 careens over a mountain road during a treacherous cross
continent race, and plunges to almost certain doom. But no worries
here. Set in what looks like the near future, "Speed Racer" is visual
spectacle and precision-- surprisingly ground in its story of love and
family. Emile Hirsch plays the intense Speed Racer, son of Pops and Mom
Racer (John Goodman and Susan Sarandon). Speed's passion is being the
best auto racer, and destined for greatness. In a touching scene of a
mother's pride Mom confesses to Speed, "I am so impossibly proud of
you" 

Speed lives in the shadow of his late brother Rex Racer. Growing up,
Rex was Speed's hero, and the greatest racer there ever was. However,
after a vehement disagreement Pops disowns Rex. Rex gains fame and
infamy on the racing circuit until his tragic death in the cross
continent raceThe Crucible. The Racer family grieved the loss of the
elder son. Does Speed race to honor Rex or does he race for himself?

Now years later, Speed is offered a lucrative contract to race for Mr.
Royalton (pompous Nicholas Elia) and his Royalton Industries. Speed
rejects the offer choosing to remain with Pops Racer (Goodman) and the
family business. Consequently, Royalton vows to destroy Speed. The
determined Inspector Detector (solid Nicholas Elia) and Racer X enroll
Speed to help them expose Royalton's international racing conspiracy.
Against Pops' wishes Speed enters The Crucible along with teammates:
Taejo Togokhan (Rain) and the mysterious Racer X. Speed is well aware
that The Crucible claimed the life of his brother Rex. However, there
is something hauntingly familiar about Racer X. For Speed: Is this
merely coincidence? 

The Wachowski Brothers' narrative moves at a nearly blinding pace.
Cleary, they have a reverence for the original cartoon. They even
provide slick martial arts action, which "Speed Racer" had way back
when. Racer X (Fox) powerfully dispatches ninja attackers. And Rain as
Taejo displays amazing martial arts grace and style. The performances
throughout "Speed Racer" are strong. Emile Hirsch captures the wonder
and conflict of a young hero emerging into his own. Christina Ricci as
Speed's girlfriend Trixie is smart and spirited. John Goodman and Susan
Sarandon are incredible. Pops and Mom Racer may have been intended as
caricatures; however, Goodman and Sarandon breathe humanity and a
parent's love in their roles. They subtly reflect their pride in Speed,
and painful regret for Rex. Matthew Fox is powerful and commanding as
Racer X. Fox brings a nobility and grace to this mysterious hero, who
embodies a Zen-like spirit to racing.

"Speed Racer" is spectacular fun with a surprisingly compelling story.
Amidst the flashy eye candy and masterful CGI, "Speed Racer" is about
the power of love, family, and the inherent greatness in all people.
Take a chance on "Speed Racer".
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I went to a screening yesterday. I honestly didn't think
I was going to be super impressed or anything, and it'd just be a cute
movie - but I was really blown away by it!! 

It's rated PG and appropriate for all ages. As a warning though, it's
has really fast cuts and lots of colorful visuals, especially during
the racing scenes, so little kids, like 4 and under (not to mention a
few adults not used to the fast-pace) might be a little overwhelmed at
first.

One of the things that I liked best about this film was that it was
very innocent and stuck to its morals. It's one of those movies that
you'd feel good taking your kids too, knowing that it's actually going
to reinforce values instead of questioning them. However, it never got
too serious and had the perfect amount of zany comedy. It was campy and
fun.

I see a LOT of movies and typically get bored halfway through, feeling
like it's the same thing over and over. But I had such a good time
during Speed Racer! Sure I knew how the ending would turn out, but I
ENJOYED getting to the ending. I was never bored, and very visually
stimulated. There's a good balance between jokes for kids and jokes for
adults, and the adult jokes never bordered on inappropriate (as some
recent kid movies have), so that you wouldn't be able to explain to the
kids why you laughed at a certain part.

All in all, this is a great film for kids, this is a great film for
adults, this is a great film for teens! The only people I would not
recommend this film to would be those who don't think they can handle
very fast-paced cutting, but it's not any worse than the majority of
video games nowadays, so if you can handle those, you'll LOVE Speed
Racer!!
<|_=00=_|>
After reading seanwalker's review of Speed Racer, I feel compelled to
write a positive review in light of such skepticism.

First off, this is not some stupid trolling endeavor. The guy who wrote
that review is clearly intelligible, he just didn't get this movie.

Speed Racer, as do all Wachowski movies, has a theme: family. Speed
Racer captures the ideal family in a realistic way, showing the
conflicts between child and parents with the coming of age, first with
Rex Racer and then with Speed Racer. In this film, the power of
strength in family overcomes all odds, all conspiracies, and all evil.
When all ideals of goodness seem to fade, family still remains strong.
It may be a somewhat simple message, but the message runs deeply
throughout the film, and, after all, this is a family movie.

Though the effects were likewise phenomenal, after Royalton's speech,
you can't possibly say this movie isn't deep. Once again, the
Wachowski's apply multidimensional philosophy into their film, a feat
that hasn't been done before in a family film, at least not that I can
immediately recall.

And finally, we are faced with everyone's biggest complaint about Speed
Racer: the big cheese. The cheesiness will make you cringe
occasionally, but that's not to say that it isn't intentional. Fans of
the original series will tell you that the corniness and overdone comic
relief were part of what made the series what it is. As the great
Tarentino would do, the Wachowski's stay true to their original
content, and not only include each character of the original series,
but portray them as they've always been portrayed, with Racer X as the
only character without a ridiculous, cheesy scene.

Speaking of Racer X, how about some praise for this movie instead of
just counterargument! Racer X's portrayal is wonderful! This may be a
spoiler, but honestly, if you don't know by now that "Racer X is really
Rex Racer, the older brother of Speed who ran away from home years ago
and is secretly racing behind the mask and the wheel of the number
nine, the shooting star" then you probably need to go watch the series.
As an older brother, I find Racer X to be a heart-wrenching character.
Not only does he posses the inner fire to do whatever it takes outside
of cheating to liberate the sport of his passion, but he will sacrifice
even more for the good of his family, though disowned by them. He is
the icon of sacrifice, passion, and, yes, badassery. And still, within
a family film! If you're a fan of the series, you will love this movie.
It has literally everything the series had, corniness and all, but also
a deeper message about family. The racing scenes, which I have little
about, are indisputably enamoring, fast paced, sleek, and full of the
crazy stunts and devices the old series had. Any fan of the series will
love this movie.

For everyone else, the cheese may be unbearable. Some people just don't
feel the pull to be open minded to corniness, especially when it comes
to family movies, and that's understandable, just make sure you know
that this corniness doesn't spring from poor direction. Also, as with
The Incredibles, those that don't relate so well to messages of family
strength, or those that don't want to see a coming of age movie, no
matter how well down, will also experience distaste for this film. But
whether it's your cup of tea or not, this is a well done movie with
depth, passion, and of course mind-blowing color and effects.
