
So this movie has been on my radar for quite a while. I was smooth
talked by Justin Mark's assurance that his treatment of the movie was
respectful and to be prepared for a new era of gaming films. I was
pumped and on board, and then... I saw the film. THE GOD-AWFUL The
script from this movie was a joke. When Bison utters something about
milk and expiry dates, I laughed. It was a nervous laugh, but it was
laughter. This movie makes no sense to me at all. The pitch was it was
a Chun Li story about looking beyond revenge. In the end, she gets her
revenge and the moral is? Revenge is the answer. THE BAD The costumes
in this movie can also suck it. I felt terrible for Kristin in the
night club scene, wearing a ridiculous dress and using her feminine
wiles ( primo top dollar dancing to the unaware) to lure Cantana, a
lesbian associate of Bison, into a bathroom. The pacing of this movie
was dreadful, and we are hand-held for every scene, if Chun Li is
walking on the screen she will undoubtedly inform us "I was walking.."
... REALLY? Really. THE UGLY The truth is this movie insults movie
goers, gamers, and people, in general. Am I supposed to feel for Chun
Li, even though she had a privileged life, and a loving mother? How is
she a victim of circumstance? Am I supposed to feel Vega's threatening
persona through five minutes of him getting the crap kicked out of him?
Am I supposed to believe Bison is all evil when he continues to nurture
his daughter? I think this movie was seriously edited so terribly,
whatever good there was to salvage was lost on the cutting room floor.
Whoever edited this needs to be bird kicked in the throat. It just
makes no sense to me how the editor could do his job, watch the movie
and allow this to enter the theaters. The best parts of the movie
involved subtitles, and a sunset. That is it. So there you go, street
fighter 2? Most assuredly, not.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was terrible to put it simply. I wasn't expecting it to be
great, but I wasn't expecting it to be as bad as it was. It seemed that
they took a really bad, wannabe Kung-Fu movie added some Street Fighter
names and thought that would good enough to pass it off as a Street
Fighter movie. Horrible, almost nonexistent plot, bad acting, and
terrible fight scenes make this movie not worth the time it takes to
watch it. At times it was funny though, but not intentionally. When
certain characters try to be serious or they throw out some line they
think would be good catch phrase you can't help but laugh at how poor
the acting was.
<|_=00=_|>
There are people saying that this is the worst movie ever, obviously
they have not seen the recent spoof movies and some movies made by Uwe
Boll. Street fighter: the legend of Chun-Li is actually entertaining,
it has actually some great music to follow the story and from my point,
it makes the movie more entertaining. Acting is not that good
especially Chris Klein's. The fighting scenes are not that bad, though
they do have some confusing and sloppy stunts. It is based on the
popular fighting game.

The story: Chun-Li's father was kidnapped by some bad guys who are
Bison and Barog. Few years later, she sets out a journey to find her
father. The cops led by Charlie Nash and Maya. Blah, the story is
typical. Fight scenes are slotted in between the action-packed journey.
Charlie Nash(Chris Klein) makes the acting unintentionally funny. Even
the way he walks. One word I can describe his acting: Lame. It seems
that he is bored plus he is over-acting. I got to admit that some of
his looks are priceless. He makes the story less serious. But whatever
it is, I was entertained.

Overall: It is not that bad as what other people commented on it. If
you want an enjoyable movie, leave your brain at home. Don't take this
movie seriously. If you do that, you will be groaning all the way plus
it may seem to you that you are sitting on the sofa for more than 2
hours. This is the first video-game adaptation for the year. Be
prepared for more are coming.
<|_=00=_|>
If you think my heading is cheesy and stupid you're absolutely right
and I heartily agree...unfortunately that vary statement is the crux of
the latest Street Fighter attempt's plot.

Ignoring the 1994 Van Damme version of the franchise this film starts
anew, focusing on the character of Chun Li, a young Asian woman highly
skilled in both piano and martial arts. Her dad gets taken away from
her at a young age by M. Bison who uses him in his criminal plot to
overthrow Bangkok. Unfortunately for Bison Chun Li grows up, meets a
mystic who teaches her some freaky stuff and sets out to kick his ass.
While the Van Damme version was far from spectacular it had a sense of
humor about itself and wasn't afraid to have fun with the material,
which was at the very least entertaining for a lazy hour and a half.
The Legend of Chun Li tries to be a dark brooding action thriller with
something like Batman Begins as its model...but the material just
doesn't support it. The plot goes back and forth between clich√©s and
just plan dumb hokey sci-fi stuff. Yes, being "rid of your goodness" is
actually a plot point. 

The script is loaded with cheesy dialog and flat characters which
doesn't make the actors' jobs any easier and they really don't live up
to the challenge. Chris Klein is particularly bad in his attempt to be
the bad ass.

You would think the action would at least make it worth the time but
even that is nothing to brag about. The fights are far too staged and
obviously fake. They throw in some signature moves from the video games
that are beyond reality. If they'd been shot differently they would've
been cool, but here they just look ridiculous. These are things that
would fit at home in a more cartoony film like its predecessor...but
sorry, no go.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even know where to start. For anyone who knows anything about
Street Fighter, set yourself up for disappointment because the movie
has absolutely nothing to do with the game. There are little to zero
special effects and the ones that are in the movie do not revolve
around the fighters special powers. Let's talk about the
characters....I realize the movie is suppose to be about Chun-Li, but
that does not mean exclude every other character in the game. The ONLY
characters are Chun-Li, Balrog, Bison, and Vega. None of the characters
have the same power or skill that they display in the game. There are
also a lot of over played scenes by useless characters such as Chris
Klein's Interpol character and the other Asian chick that also has no
purpose. They only serve as pawns in making the movie more irritating.
If there was ever a punishment you wanted to dish out to anyone or
revenge you wanted to take upon somebody, just have them watch this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW. Where do we begin? It's been ages since I have seen a film of such
poor quality, so much so that the many parts of the whole have come
together to form a movie so insipid, so completely devoid of merit that
only a team of evil geniuses, locked away in an isolated mountain
fortress, driven mad by loneliness, despair, and bad TV sitcoms could
have ever created such an atrocity.

So, the film opens with a a lengthy, completely unnecessary monologue
by Chun-Li that is supposed to set the story and give neophytes into
the Street Fighter saga some background into her life. Great. This part
proceeds with the pacing and depth of a newbie film student's freshman
project, and is completely unremarkable. WHat is TRULY terrible,
however, is that she NEVER SHUTS UP! Usually a narration is present to
help you discern elements of a story that you might otherwise miss,
such as a character's thoughts and feelings...but when she goes on and
on talking about everything that you the viewer are already seeing on
screen, well...someone was definitely trying to pad their script.

Oh yeah, the script...let's talk about that for a little bit, shall we?
Right from the get-go, you are amazed at the flat, base dialog that
would only impress those who had just discovered the joys of reading -
the speech is flat, stilted, and poorly acted by all in the cast. M.
Bison's entry into the early set was particularly painful to listen to,
and Balrog's cheesy entrance into the scene was so god-awful that I was
actually pining for the time when he held a video camera as Chun-Li's
cameraman back in 94! Oh, and let's talk about one plot point that just
angered me off from the get-go: M. Bison's origin. So, supposedly, in
order to drive out his "conscience," (which is supposed to make him
more powerful? Heh...okay...) he must rip his unborn daughter from her
mother's womb in a spooky cave where evil spirits dwell.

Huh. Riiiight.

Now, it's bad enough that they made up such a stupid plot point to
begin with, but can someone please explain something to me: just how is
it that M. Bison could have actually even HAD a conscience in the first
place if he was willing to go through with killing his wife and ripping
out his daughter from her womb? Further, HOW IS THIS SUPPOSED TO MAKE
HIM MORE POWERFUL?! ...

...

...

...yeah. It's a lot of this "I stole these plot ideas from my ten year
old son" crap throughout the whole film.

Oh, and if anyone EVER defends Chris Klein as an actor after this film,
they lose all credibility...not just as a film critic, but as a human
being with ANY opinion whatsoever. My God...that man brings suck to a
previously unheard of level that actually elevates Sci-Fi channel
original movie D-listers...

How's this for a succinct clincher: Street Fighter: the Legend of
Chun-Li actually gives Manos: the Hands of Fate some healthy
competition for worst film ever.
<|_=00=_|>
Having enjoyed the game as I a kid, I was excited to see Chun Li in a
new feature adaptation. The cast showed signs of "mixing it up," with
its choices and I was willing for the ride.

While the overall origin story is strong (the piano playing a very nice
touch for depth) unfortunately many scenes come off as campy. On a
scale, the strongest scenes are easily those between Kristin Kreuk and
Robin Shou as Chun Li and Gen, and sadly the weakest being Michael
Clark Duncan and Chris Klein's characters of Balrog and Nash.

That was the central problem for me here, there is an exciting action
piece at work but is jumbled with various other plot lines and set
pieces that really feel out of place. The feeling of the film comes off
as uneven as was also the case with Director Andrzej Bartkowiak's
previous works in CRADLE 2 THE GRAVE and DOOM. This film unfortunately
continues Bartkowiak's pattern.

Nevertheless, Chun Li was carried well by Ms. Kreuk and the effort was
well mounted.

RT.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very terrible in many ways.

First off, the choice of characters is the worst possible ever for a
game movie. Chun Li is meant to be Chinese yet you've chosen an actress
who has problem speaking the language in the movie (when for example
she asks for help which she asked in a terrible accent).

Game movies are not really easy to be pulled off along with good
reviews, not many are out there. The reason is shown very clear in this
movie. The director ALWAYS misses the point of what the movie should be
about; I mean fair enough you don't want a movie about Ryu fighting Ken
or Bison, and want a Legend of Chun Li, But you could've put a better
story in it, or give the movie better actors (I can't believe the
acting in this movie). Take Marvel for example, their world interacts a
lot of different marvel characters, but when it comes to their own
movie/cartoon, they actually make the story relevant to the characters
life(e.g just because Bison was the boss, it doesn't mean that Chun
Li's life has to be revolved around killing him (which is what Ryu
does)).

The choice of camera shots used to try and show the story was also done
badly. For example when Bison was trying to show the camera that he had
a picture of his wife and daughter, which were dear to him; First off,
would Bison do this? Secondly, this is very very corny.

This movie had made me dislike street fighter. I would highly recommend
better actors and directors AND story writers if another street fighter
movie comes out.

P.S Didn't finish the movie, it was that bad.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of the Street Fighter franchise from it's original
conception I had high hopes for this movie. I expected it to provide a
cinematic version of what I already knew of the Chun Li persona, and it
failed to provide in every way.

First off, Kristen Kreuk as Chun Li. What where they thinking! There
are hundreds of highly skilled Asian actors that could have been casted
in a better fashion. Bison/Balrog (lol confusing) kept reminding me of
the Green Mile, the death sentenced good guy with a heart of gold. Now
he is some buffed punchbag, mmm. This leads to the horrible, horrible
accents that the actors had when they were talking in an Asian
language. Seriously, UGH!.

The story itself was shallow, bad bad special effects. (Spinning Bird
Kick in the club scene, are you serious? 20 years ago they were able to
make it look better in a video game. 30 years ago they made it look
better in a Kung Fu movie, get real.

The story about her revenge on Bison is shallow. She gets her revenge
in a way, but it's not satisfying at all.

Top it all off with cheesy one-liner upon one-liner, bad acting, bad
casting and you got yourself a turdcake that the entire audience has to
take a bite off.

F--, see me after class.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, before you go in to this movie, what were some of these reviewers
looking for? An Oscar performance? Academy award graphics? Come on now,
its a video game made to movie, by Capcom, whose never made a good
adaptation of a video game movie.

Some of the reviewers comments were legit. For instance, Chun Li was
clearly Chinese when she was 10 years old. But when she grew up, she
was half Chinese and half Caucasian.

A lot of the people here complained about the storyline and the lack of
special effects. Too much nick picking...

The storyline wasn't too bad, it didn't stay 100% to the video game
storyline, but somewhat similar. And to me, was the storyline good
enough? yes it was, I wasn't expecting much in the first place so i
could only go up from there.

There wasn't too much special effects in this movie. Which I enjoyed
more actually. The movie would look too unrealistic if fireballs were
thrown everywhere.

Acting was OK, not great and convincing, but for this type of movie,
its good enough.

Honestly, this movie isn't as bad as people claim, I've seen much worst
movies made by the way-an brothers. And the notion that even the first
street fighter movie was better than this one is totally ludicrous. The
first one had the worst acting, color, special effects ever, not even
close compared to this one.
