
It's very easy to understand why people hate this movie.

Blindness is directed by acclaimed film-maker Fernando Meirelles, with
a story based on a novel by award-winning writer Jose Saramago. It
stars Julianne Moore and Gael Garcia Bernal. What could go wrong? 

Well, this is one the most depressing movies I've seen in recent years. 

Don't be fooled, the genre of this movie is Horror, albeit done in an
ultra-realistic way, much like the Brazilian movie wave of the 70/80's
- gritty, violent, dirty, and ultimately hopeless. 

However it's not a horror movie in the common sense. It's not scary
because it has ugly monsters. It's not frightening because there is a
lot of gore and blood. What freaks me (and others) out over this movie,
is that it tells a story that could happen, and actually, is happening.
If one can't see that, then one is as blind as the characters in the
film.

The movie is technically brilliant, with great acting and top-notch
effects. The story takes place in a non-specific city, but some of it
was clearly filmed in São Paulo. The movie poses the question, "what if
suddenly everyone in the world became blind"? This is a practical
question as much as a metaphorical one.

I don't think this movie can be "enjoyed". The violence is suggested
rather than seen (which IMHO makes it scarier). It can, however, be
appreciated, as its shocking nature is nothing more than a wake-up call
for humanity.

Having said that, Meirelles took a huge risk (the novel was considered
to be un-filmable) with this film, and the result was a lynch-mob
reaction from both critics and audiences. I wonder how this will impact
Meirelles' future works.

I will dare to suggest that, if this had been filmed in Spanish or
Portuguese, it might have been hailed as a cult movie. As it is, it's
too alienating for audiences that are used to happy endings and
fake-violence, or people who watch movies solely to pass the time.

This one is for 'hardcore' movie fans - don't watch it if you're
depressed or sad. And it offers the viewers very little in the way of
comfort. However, it's so well-executed and disturbing, that you can't
help but agree that their goal was reached. Unfortunately, the
marketing and the names involved with 'Blindness' misled many viewers
who otherwise would never dream of watching this.

It's not a perfect film by any means, though. The music (specially in
one crucial scene) just feels out of place sometimes. And If you can't
picture yourself as a blind person, some things may not make a lot of
sense, too. There is a scene however in which one of the characters
sings a very popular song in a slightly different way - one you are not
likely to forget anytime soon.

Approach with caution, and preferrably, alone. You don't want to lose
any friends or potential dates. But I also think that to miss out on
this movie is like losing a chance to watch one of the most
thought-provoking films of this year.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I expected an over-the-top action flick, a-la Mad Max style or I Am
Legend style. This movie was much slower, much dirtier, and more real.
It was more like the BOOK "I Am Legend." The point of the flick was the
human element and not the action. It was great.

Having said that, I should have waited to rent it. The audience sitting
around me was not intelligent enough to appreciate it -- nor
intelligent enough to shut up during the movie. Their chattiness seemed
to be born out of boredom. Shame.

I wondered how the movie would end. And at 2 hours long I had plenty of
time to think about it. I could not guess it. Perhaps someone smarter,
or who thinks in more obvious terms could have guessed it. But I was
surprised by it. And it really leaves you thinking. That is, if you
were thinking during the movie up to that point.

This movie is dirty to watch and will leave you feeling dirty. In a
very adult, intelligent, thought-provoking manner. I write few reviews.
This movie moved me to write a review.
<|_=00=_|>
As an admirer of Saramago's masterpiece and Fernando Meirelles's
exciting talent, I went to see "Blindness" with a pure heart but modest
expectations; we all know how movie adaptations of great literature can
be disappointing. But I wasn't prepared for the formal and
philosophical nada that is "Blindness" -- it could very well be
entitled "Blandness" instead.

The problems start from the opening credits: after the names of a dozen
international production companies comes the hype tag "A Very
Independent Production". Following this tongue-in-cheek "manifesto",
the opening scene -- of the first man turning blind inside his car --
belies it all: it looks alarmingly like an ad for the new Fiat Punto
(Fiat is one of the film's backers). It's a shameless piece of
merchandise placement that immediately distracts you from what's
supposed to be a harrowing scene; you pay attention to the car, not the
man (excruciatingly played by Yusuke Iseya, in the film's worst
performance). 

The "very independent production" has more than a share of compromises,
including the terribly contrived Japanese couple, who seem to belong to
another film, and who are there to satisfy the Japanese co-producers
and market. Or the timid, squeezed-in "action" flashes (cars crashing,
planes exploding) to satisfy "action" lovers (NOT the public for
"Blindness"). Or the debatable decision to film in English an author
who brought new heights to Portuguese-language prose, in order to
employ American stars and accommodate the international market. 

Worst of all, we know now that Meirelles decided to re-cut the film six
times since Cannes, after test audiences were "disgusted" with
"graphic" scenes. Now, how can you keep your vision (oops) trying to
please everybody? Can't. The film never finds a tone, wavering between
the novel's apocalyptic, sarcastic allegory of society's prejudices,
cruelty, ridicule and flawed power systems, and clumsy attempts to
insert sci-fi thriller touches and invest on "plot". Well, Saramago's
novel is a masterpiece NOT because of the plot but for the exquisite
prose and caustic politico-philosophical insights.

It would be easy to blame the film's failure solely on Don McKellar's
schematic adaptation that resembles a first draft, riddled with bad
dialog and pedestrian ideas, plus a narrator (Danny Glover's character)
that confusingly comes in halfway into the film. But the problems are
all around: César Charlone's visual gimmicks soon get tiresome (the
blurring "white blindness" ultimately drains the film of all life; it
takes away the visual as well as the emotional edge); Marco Antonio
Guimarães's music is abysmally bland; Daniel Rezende (the superb editor
of "City of God") never finds a compelling rhythm, alternating chopped
scenes with unnecessary longueurs (e.g.the embarrassing "cute dog"
sequence). Art director Tulé Peak nails the claustrophobic squalor of
the quarantine facility, but the garbage-filled streets often look
suspiciously composed.

The actors seem lost, and that's a shock considering Meirelles's former
films (remember how "City of God" had all-around brilliant
performances?). Though they're supposed to play stereotypes (doctor,
wife, whore, etc), they lack the transformations that are the crux of
the novel -- how they work out their humanity in extreme mondo cane
conditions. Mark Ruffalo, of whining voice and gutless face, looks like
a boy who's lost his mommy rather than a dedicated ophthalmologist who
slowly sinks into depression because he's impotent to help others or
himself. Danny Glover plays a weather-beaten one-eyed old man
incongruously sporting a supermegawhite Beverly Hills dental job that
renders him impossible to believe in. The Japanese couple struggle with
ludicrous scenes and dialog. Alice Braga is strong and sexy, but her
character's complexities never surface, especially the nature of her
relationships with the young boy and the doctor. Maury Chaykin's
repellent character is underwritten and under-explored, and he turns to
overacting for attention. Don McKellar's thief is an embarrassment and
Sandra Oh's cameo is a waste.

Julianne Moore spends the first half hour repeating her role of the
depressed/misunderstood wife in "The Hours" (cake-baking included). She
fails to convey the bewilderment as to the "why" she's the only one to
keep her eyesight, but she's good when she gets into action, though she
could take a break from her de rigueur slow-motion crying scene, with
that weird thing she does curling her mouth upside down (my friend said
"Oh, no, it's coming!"). The best performance comes from Gael García
Bernal playing the amoral, jackass opportunist: he makes the most
unbelievable character (how about his rise to power? And gun? And
ammo?) come to life -- in his scenes, we recognize Meirelles's naughty,
un-PC sense of humor.

Above all, it's Meirelles (director, co-producer and responsible for
the final cut) who disappoints; his customary assertive film-making
flounders in hesitation here. Perhaps he felt the burden of trying to
remain too faithful to the novel of a Nobel-winner who's still alive.
Perhaps he felt crushed by the brooding material; Meirelles is best
when he can let irony and humor show (as in "Domésticas" and "City of
God"). Though some people complain about the "graphic" sex/rape scenes,
they're actually almost bashful (at least after the re-cuts). The
novel's corrosiveness asked for an uncompromising, irrepressible
director of Buñuel's lineage -- if there was one -- to do it full
justice (the characters' passiveness/impotence recall "Exterminating
Angel"). In this our time, Béla Tarr could've made it gloriously bleak;
Lars von Trier could've turned it into a shattering, sardonic horror,
if he got back into his splendid "Kingdom"/"Zentropa" shape.

"Blindness" is not bad at all -- it's just insipid and frustrating.
Maybe Meirelles should do next a Portuguese-speaking Brazilian film
again and re-fuel his soul with his own culture, language and themes.
Brazilian cinema needs him badly; abroad, he's just one more talented,
competent "foreign" director, and these multinational ventures often
turn out muddled or impersonal (think Kassovitz, Susanne Bier,
Hirschbiegel...). He can do much better, and we deserve much better
from him.
<|_=00=_|>
"If it can be written, or thought, it can be filmed", said the great
Stanley Kubrick, who adapted most of his films from novels and turned
them into his own films, rather than being too literal (or faithful, if
you prefer) to the source material (and often turning authors and fans
of the adapted novels crazy  Stephen King, anyone?). I agree with his
statement. No literary work is "unfilmable"  which doesn't necessarily
mean any literary work, good or bad, can be turned into a good movie.
However, in spite of a few flaws, "Blindness" is a very efficient
adaptation of a brilliant (and very complex) novel by Portuguese author
José Saramago, "Ensaio Sobre a Cegueira" (literally, "Essay About
Blindness"), and doesn't deserve all the bad reviews it's been getting.

The negative reaction towards the film doesn't surprise me at all,
though. Fernando Meirelles, after getting world acclaim with his
neoclassic "City of God", made a very successful transition to an
international project with the beautiful "The Constant Gardener". His
sophomore English project is very daring and dark, uneasy to watch at
times, but also compelling and thought-provoking.

César Charlone's exquisite cinematography sets the tone for the story
of an unexplained "white blindness" epidemic. It's also a huge asset to
have such a phenomenal actress like Julianne Moore to play the film's
heroine: as always, she has a strong presence and is extremely
expressive, making everyone believe and feel for her character's cross
of being the only one who can see in a chaotic quarantine, where people
have to submit to violence and rape in order to survive.

My only major complaint is about the uneven first 20 minutes or so:
some sequences seem a little disjointed and the acting somewhat
amateurish, but once the first act is done the film finds its own pace
and strength. Roger Ebert called it "one of the most unpleasant, not to
say unendurable, films" he's ever seen. For a start, it would be stupid
to assume a film with such a dark premise would be uplifting (and if
Ebert had the slightest knowledge about the material it's based on,
he'd realize what he was up for), so his comment is unintelligent and
atrocious like the majority of everything he's ever written (but he's a
widely popular Pulitzer-winning film critic, so unfortunately lots of
people trust his opinion before going to see a movie). Even though I
still prefer the outstanding novel to the film, I admire director
Fernando Meirelles and writer Don McKellar's adaptation for what it is:
smart, daring and respectful to its source material, without being
overtly faithful or afraid of taking risks. And Saramago himself
approved the film, so who are we to criticize? The man knows what he's
talking about; if you want to see it for yourself, read his novel now
and then compare it to this film, appreciating it not as a literary
work, but as the good piece of cinema it is. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie has its merits. It brings you into the story, making you feel
all the emotions felt by the characters, and in my opinion this is why
some people didn't like it; it opens your eyes for things that nobody
wants to see. I'm not saying that a disease like this one could happen,
but others may come, and that's a reality.

The movie makes you feel extremely uncomfortable; I caught myself
thinking about leaving the room sometimes. The atmosphere that Fernando
Meireles built is so heavy and dark (even thought the whole movie is
full of bright colors) that it makes you feel something like
depression, sadness, and you keep thinking in the movie after it has
finished. The acting helped a lot in this aspect; all the actors did
their best to give a perfect sense of reality.

If you want just to spend some time watching a good apocalyptic movie,
this is not the one. It may be considered as "cult" in someway, by the
fact that you don't watch it to get entertained, but to reflect about
it.

If I had to grade this movie based on how I felt during it, I would
give it a 0, but I have to say that, above everything, it is a great
movie.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I wonder. At times, it seems that we all have some shared
cinematic values  that some art can reach us all. Sure, we usually
sacrifice depth in the process, but that's a small enough occasional
price for the joy of laughing with a crowd. It is no small part of the
experience, that shared dark room with no remote control. 

So when I see a movie like this, I wonder why it doesn't fit the niche.
It is extraordinarily well done. The eye is used to convey not only
narrative movement  as usually is desired  but situated group emotion
as well. It does this in a straightforward, effective way. It is high
cinema, but not requiring deciphering. Some visual episodes here simply
took my breath away. They worked, all of them that I got, because
Julianne understood what they were and how to support them. 

The story has allegorical elements about society and family, humanness
and knowing. I would have preferred that they be more subtle, more
Chinese. But they worked. You could see the balance, the perfect
weighing of values, the texture from a Nobel-level writer. 

So this should have been embraced by everyone. High visual art with
accessible vocabulary and visceral effect. Obvious allegory, but with
rich immediate motion. Several unexpected turns. But for some reason it
wasn't. As I knew this going in, it became a sort of parallel context
that was carried along. This was absolutely pummeled by the newspaper
writers, not critics really; just reporters of a supposed banal
zeitgeist. 

Viewers on IMDb were not so savage, but this, like "Children of Men"
did not get the exposure it deserved. The business about goodness grown
from being forced to live on the periphery of dangerous tribe simply
did not carry from "City of God" to here, though the similarities are
striking.

So I wonder whether it is me that is blind here, in celebrating this,
or the other way.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
This one gets a 10 out of 10. The very title and premise of this movie
was intriguing to me. While we are caught up in the rat race. Wondering
how to pay the bills, make the next dollar, worrying about recession,
etc... what happens if we all suddenly just go blind. It is true that
some of the most basic things that we take for granted that we should
be thankful for -- gets lost in a rat-race called life. I knew I would
enjoy the very premise of this movie as it shows that depth of how a
first world country can go if one of the most basic gifts of sight were
deprived. It wouldn't take a very long time for things to become
anarchic.

I've been reading through all the comments because I didn't want to say
something that wasn't said before. However, I want to defend this movie
against some criticisms.

First of all, people are saying that Julian Moore's character waited a
bit too late to use her weapon or do something. I think that this
actually makes the movie more realistic and is a strength. A character
that has never killed before, and is killing for the first time has to
be taken beyond a breaking-point in order to cross that boundary. This
makes sense with me and I do not understand why people are criticizing
this element.

Second complaint common is demanding of goods or valuables if the place
is already quarantined. I defend this movie in this respect because I
think that to be appreciated, you have to give it latitude by trying to
connect with it's overall message, even if it may be metaphorical at
the expense of realism. You cant take a movie like this too literal --
you simply have to understand what it is saying -- which is the
downward spiral when the rules of society collapse -- and learning to
be thankful for some of the things that get lost that's really
important in the rat-race we are all called up in.

Thirdly, the complaints of the gore, violence, and rape -- it was rated
a restricted movie -- you are viewing at your own risk.

This movie has touched me and I'm glad that I have rented. If for not
anything else, but at least helping me to see life beyond the rat-race
that we are all glued to and imagining what could happen if one of the
most precious gifts that we are all blessed with -- that of vision --
were deprived of everyone for just a length of time what would happen.

THAT -- in itself has got me thinking. There is no higher rating than
10/10 -- so that's the best I can do. I feel happy that something woke
me out of the rat-race and see the blue sky -- it was this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the few outstanding pictures of late, 'Blindness' is hard to
watch, hard to stomach and hard to deal with. As other comments
mention, this movie leaves you somewhat disgusted at being human,
because the consequences of a non-explained epidemic of white blindness
appear extremely realistic.

It's also perfectly understandable that some people hate this movie, as
it definitely vilifies everybody affected to a certain extent, the only
exception being the still-seeing heroine. However in the profit-driven
film industry, which so frequently torments our brains with just too
much triviality, such a well-paced, provocative, thought-inspiring
piece should be appreciated more for its dare than criticized for its
shortcomings.

If you don't want to learn too much about the plot, read no further. I
give a concise summary because some of you may want to know why this
film is so controversial.

An unnamed city (though easily recognizable as Toronto). A busy traffic
intersection. A Japanese man suddenly turns blind. Unnerved drivers
honking need to be appeased by a passersby. Another one offers to give
the Japanese man a lift home. Once there, he makes off with his car.
The Japanese man waits for his wife, who then takes him to an optician.
The optician cannot establish his condition and refers him to a
hospital. The optician heads home, has dinner with his wife (absolutely
brilliant: Julianne Moore), and wakes up next morning to find that he
has lost his sight as well. So has the car thief and various other
patients of his clinic. It becomes apparent that the blindness is an
epidemic. The optician is being transported to an isolation facility,
accompanied by his wife who pretends to have turned blind as well. Once
there, they try to set up a code of behavior for the ever-increasing
numbers of arrivals, since they are completely left to their own
devices, with no direct contact to the outside world. The facility is
guarded by trigger-happy soldiers who offer no assistance whatsoever
and resort to violence in order to keep the affected indoors. Among
them, power struggles ensue. With limited food supplies, a group of
crooks takes control of them and coerce the others to exchange their
valuables, and then their women for food. Their means of authority are
a gun and the instincts of a blind accountant (chilling: Maury
Chaykin). After one of the women dies of abuse, the optician's wife
kills the leader of the crooks (effectively ruthless: Gael Garcia
Bernal). A revolt ensues, during which the building catches fire. The
wife dares to ask the guards for help and finds the facility deserted.
She takes a small group of the liberated blind across a collapsed
Toronto, eventually making it home. A joyful dinner with what has
become her family of sorts follows. Next morning the Japanese man, who
was the first one affected and is still among them, can see once more,
to the joy of everyone except a naturally blind man who had hoped to go
on living with everybody (wonderful: Danny Glover). The optician's wife
walks out on the terrace and looks up to the white sky - has she now
lost her sight, as it returns to the others? The criticism this story
attracts from naturally blind people may stem from the accomplice of
the villains. Of all the bad guys, he appears to be the worst because
he knows exactly how vulnerable and extorted the affected victims feel.
He jumps at the chance to wield authority for once instead of feeling
compassion. However, this doesn't seem unrealistic and isn't presented
in a discriminatory way.

The meaning of the white blindness appears to be some religious
castigation in the novel, though this isn't pointed out explicitly.
What makes this movie so fantastic in my opinion is that no explanation
is offered at all. It's all about how people react upon a common
affliction, and the chain of degradation that ensues is so logical that
I am hard-pressed to remember any other dystopian film with such a
clear message.

And then there is Julianne Moore, who makes her screen persona
absolutely unforgettable - both angelic and vulnerable, both forgiving
and vengeful, and always credible, even though it is such a mystery why
she is the only one not affected by the disease.

In conclusion: this is one of those rare movies that give you a lot
more than you might have wished for.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this film and had great expectations, yet by the end
of the movie I was annoyed at the entire production. Plot holes of some
degree are to be expected in any movie, but the ones in Blindness were
so gaping that they became major distractions.

The point is made at the start that Ward 1 would be the best to be in
because they were closest to the supplies, yet despite that and despite
the fact that they have the only sighted person in the building who can
see the deliveries coming, they end up with nothing.

The Julianne Moore character leading the lambs to the slaughter so to
speak (women exchanged for food) was absurd. Her walking up to the
"dictator" with a metal pipe and smashing him in the head would have
been the obvious move. He has a gun. So? And the idea that just because
the "dictator" had a man who was already blind on his team, they had a
great advantage, is absurd as well. I work with blind people daily.
Their blindness does not give them magical powers. They have a degree
of increased sensitivity with other senses, but still walk into walls
and head the wrong way pretty often, so while they would have an
advantage in that they had no adjustments to make when the affliction
hit the world, that's about all.

In the end, I was reminded of "Children of Men", another film which had
great promise but ultimately disappointed. At least that movie started
out great however. "Blindness" just meandered around, and did so for a
long, long time as well. "Day of the Triffids", an old sci-fi movie,
gave a better take on the possibilities of such an epidemic.
<|_=00=_|>
I wish I could give this movie 0 stars. I don't even know where to
begin to describe the horrible experience that was paying to see this
movie, although I suspect I would have felt the same way if I had
pirated it from the Internet. 

The "heroine" had the sole advantage over the rest of the population,
being sighted and all, and rarely uses it. When she does, it boggles
the mind as to why she waited so long. 

The "villain" possesses a gun, but HE IS BLIND. The rest are afraid
anyway. He also demands currency in exchange for food, and no one
thinks to bring up the fact that they are confined to an unstaffed
quarantined building, and that the collection of material possessions
is futile and useless. Or more importantly, that they could easily
fight back, being on a level playing field...oh, no, wait- one of them
CAN SEE. 

But they wait until the antihero and his disgusting cohorts rape the
women of the other wards (albeit they are "voluntary" victims),
including their farcical "heroine", before she decides to use against
him the weapon she has been hoarding from the beginning. 

And NOT ONE man objects to the women giving themselves to the repugnant
legion in exchange for food (though they really don't have to- see
above), aside from the husband who is merely afraid of his own loss of
dignity as a result. I guess chivalry really is dead. So is common
sense. 

The premise is ridiculous, and it is laughable to suppose that this
dreck represents a coherent diatribe on human behavior as it gives way
to indifference and chaos. I have had to suspend disbelief for movies
before, but my psyche was ready to implode from all the lingering I did
during this stupendously dreadful flick. 

What a waste of good actors, too. For shame that they (presumably) saw
this finished product and did not subsequently withdraw themselves from
public life for all eternity. I don't give way to labels flippantly,
nor do I tend to exaggerate, but this is easily the worst movie I have
ever seen.
