
I have always admired the films of Romero and there can be no doubt
that he is the godfather of zombie films. Alas, i think he should have
finished his zombie career with day of the dead. Land of the dead
certainly wasn't a bad film and this is far from the worst i've ever
seen but the step down is none the less noticeable. The modern
cinematic world owes a lot to Romero but it's clear that the modern
cinematic world has moved on from him.

Lets start with the main problems(and ignore the million little ones):-

1. An idiot who keeps filming even when he or his friends are in danger
(at no point does the brilliant idea of putting the camera down occur
to him) 

2. A narrator that appears to have edited the film so that it looks
polished and yet who chooses to leave in the moments when the camera
goes off or turns black 

3. A narrator (and editor) who thinks incidental music should be added
for tension (imagine those who filmed 9/11 doing the same and you will
arrive at the same tasteless nature of this) 

4. A narrator (and editor) who wishes for us to witness her rotting
corpse family attack her (journalists may pretend to put journalistic
integrity before emotional involvement but this is perverse) 

5. An allegory for the war in Iraq (we aren't being given the full
information etc) that needs to be endlessly repeated.

6. The notion that they needed to film everything to show the world the
truth (like walking zombies wouldn't do it for most people) 

7. Romero getting the opportunity to remind everyone that he thinks
zombies should be slow (and reminding us again and again) 

This isn't an absolutely awful film by any stretch but in relation to
the history and reputation of Romero, it is alas.....somewhat of an
embarrassment
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes, user comments on IMDb can be misleading! One comment
recently suggested that this film is Romero returning to his roots, and
suggested that this film ranks up there with the best of his 'dead'
films. Respectfully, I disagree...very, VERY MUCH!

For those not familiar, the Dead trilogy went like this: 1- Night of
the Living Dead: the dead return to life and terrorize the panicked
individuals who have taken refuge in a rural home. 2- Dawn of the Dead:
Romero's BEST, for those who don't know it; when society finds itself
unable to contain the dead's movements, a small group hole up in a mall
and find a small utopia in the commercial appeal after society's
downfall. 3- Day of the Dead: Government, mostly at the prodding of the
military forces, take refuge on Islands off the coast of the US, trying
to find either an answer to take back the world (the military
approach), or to live with the 'dead' (the scientific approach). 4-
Land of the Dead: Society breaks down into colonies controlled by those
who have the wealth and power to command military like forces and both
the dead and the poor are subjected to abuse in these colonial like
establishments.

As you can see, there was a progress to Romero's films- political
commentary definitely was loaded in the films. For some reason however,
Romero decided to make this film, which in a nut shell, is about a
group of students who, while making a cheesy monster movie, find
themselves in the middle of chaos and decide to document it. A la "The
Blair Witch Project" (which is far superior!) and "Cloverfield."

One by one, most of the students are dispatched as they make their way
across Pennsylvania in search of their families- though if you sit
through the first five minutes of the film, the narrative tells you: a)
the film is already over; and b) an effort to edit it in order to
emphasize its fear factor has been made to 'wake you up.' The latter
part is rather peculiar given that the film maker goes as far as to
watch his friends being attacked by the dead, without helping them, in
order to capture exactly what happened.

Does that seem parasitic? What is perhaps even more sickening is that
the 'film maker' seems more concerned with 'hits' his video gets online
than the well being of his friends, or that after he falls victim to an
attacker, he's essentially regarded as a noble hero by one of the
survivors.

I really didn't like this film, although it was clear that the crowds
at the theater did enjoy some of the originality of the gore (in one
scene, one of the dead is shocked with an EMP machine in a hospital,
causing their eyes to explode, but not killing them). My advice: if you
are tired of seeing shills that try to find the same pulse that the
Blair Witch Project successfully exploited, or if you want to retain an
idea that Romero's dead trilogy stands as a firm example of positive
movie making, avoid this dud!
<|_=00=_|>
Diary Of The Dead is a film in which George A. Romero tackles the
digital age, and the information barrage that it brings us. Rolling
news, Youtube, Podcasts, Myspace are the media of choice for an era
where information is global, instant and 24/7. It is in this climate
that the 'Dead' franchise gets the Blair Witch Project. We follow a
group of young film students who find themselves having to band
together after the dead start returning to life. Seeing the magnitude
of the event a few of the troupe take it upon themselves to record a
document of their plight for survival. It is this 'life through a lens'
that gives us Diary Of The Dead.

To expand on the cataclysmic events Romero uses footage from news
channels, video blogs and web cams. The accessibility of the Internet
mirrors the wildfire decline of humanity as the zombies take over and
society collapses. However if there is one thing that defines this
Internet era, it is short attention spans.

Sadly this pandering to the Youtube generation is what seems to sum up
'Diary'. The strength behind the previous 'Dead' movies was that the
survivors were stationary and holed up (whether it be in a shopping
mall or bunker). As such it was the banality of their existence that
became even more unnerving than the zombie threat. In 'Diary' the
action is kinetic and the editing very fast-paced, as if Romero is keen
to hold the short attention span of a young audience that now lives off
1 minute video clips, and skim-read 'Wikipedia' articles. As such the
characters never stay in the same place for more than 5 minutes, as the
scene hopping goes into overdrive. 

I'm sad to say that 'Diary' smacks of compromise. Romero inserts his
typical biting social commentary, but it's often blunted by a desire to
make the film palatable enough to younger generations and audiences.
Trying to make reflective points about humanity when they're delivered
by identikit good-looking young actors (who look more suited to being
in 'The O.C') feels akin to having 'Hamlet' read out by Lindsay Lohan.

Also Romero's hand seems forced to add the checklist of 'teen' horror
clich√©s.

'Gross Out' deaths- Check

Ditzy Blonde Girl- Check

Older 'world weary' authority figure- Check (The professor)

Zombie jumping out from side of frame- Check

Big scary mansion finale- Check

Despite its' flaws, 'Diary Of The Dead' is worth seeing simply for the
glimmerings of Romero's post 9/11 views. Ironically, it is modern
culture that not only embraces 'Diary' but also forces Romero to dumb
down. 'Diary' is a flawed, experimental film from Romero, however a
flawed Romero is far more challenging and interesting than 99% of the
competition. An honorable 'miss' of a film that sees the master of
zombie movies bound by the requirements of commercial success.
<|_=00=_|>
What is it with the classic directors; Spielberg, Carpenter, and now
Romero, that they seem to produce such abysmal drivel as they get
older? Dennis Leary once joked that Elvis should have been killed young
so that people only remembered him at his best. If that was true, then
Romero should have joined him before this dross was made.

Like reality TV, these stupid home movie within a movie offerings are
popular at the moment, probably because they're cheap to make. Blair
Witch has a lot to answer for. If Cloverfield left you cold, this movie
will give you rigor mortis, with its aimless plot, its set-piece
action, and its massively, completely unimaginative, by the numbers
encounters.

To say that the basic premise of this film is ridiculous, is a huge
understatement - and I'm not talking about the zombies either! Even if
you accept that the film is set in a world where zombies can exist, I
simply refuse to accept that anyone would tolerate the lead character
constantly filming instead of helping his friends to survive. In the
real world, I think it would be a dead cert that one of his friends
would either have fed him to a zombie, or at very least, smashed the
hell out of his camera to re-engage him with the real world.

This is script writing at its laziest and least convincing.
<|_=00=_|>
George A. Romero, king of the zombie movie, returns with a new . . . .
. zombie movie. Well "if it ain't broke" and all that. The plot
concerns a group of students who are making a horror movie one moment,
supervised by a heavy-drinking professor, and then finding themselves
trying to survive the next as everyone realises that, yep, those pesky
corpses are getting up for a wander once again. The twist this time
around is that Romero has decided to join the current crop of
filmmakers who have gone down the DV, hand-held, cinema verite path but
how does his outing compare to theirs? Pretty unfavourably, I'm sad to
say. Sharing one of the major negative points that turned me off
Cloverfield (the making you want to shout "just stop filming and help
save your own damn ass" sensation) and none of the positives from, for
example, {Rec} or Noroi or even The Blair Witch Project means that it
makes for a difficult movie to like, although I suspect it will end up
becoming just as divisive as all of those.

Unfortunately, there's also a problem with the intelligent,
thought-provoking side of things. Romero's zombie movies have always
contained some underlying social commentary but here it actually gets
in the way of the more entertaining moments and proves to be too much
of a distraction thanks to the unusual heavy-handedness from Romero and
too much repetition.

The points made ARE interesting (about media by the masses for the
masses, how images can be edited to show the version of events that you
prefer, etc) but they simply do not gel in the zombie uprising
storyline.

Luckily, the effects on display are handled much better and, although
not all of them are 100% on target, most of them are well-realised and
seamlessly done so that they never remind you that you are watching
fake "real" footage.

The acting is okay, the shuffling zombies are up to standard and there
are definitely moments here that will please fans (not least the
comments on horror movies in general and a reminder of why zombies
don't run) but I must say, at great risk of personal insult and/or
injury, that on a basic entertainment level I even preferred the
much-maligned Day Of The Dead remake to this movie for it's zombie
carnage and fun.

Having said that, I did love every zombie moment featured in "Diary",
it's just a shame that they weren't framed by a much better movie.

See this if you like: Land Of The Dead, The Last Broadcast, George A.
Romero.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw "Diary of the Dead" last weekend. I'm not saying I hated it,
but I was very disappointed. I can appreciate the concept, but George
really dropped the ball here. I think the main failure, is that this
type of film (P.O.V.) is out of Romero's element. Given the right tools
and scenario, George Romero is a master. But, the guy just isn't cut
out for "Cloverfield" or "Blair Witch" type stuff. Another fault-too
many characters, making half baked decisions, solely for the purpose of
putting themselves, or companions, in danger. I really expected more
from a filmmaker of this caliber. Also, the only character I REALLY
liked, was the drunkard professor.

It's a damned shame, cause this was a pretty cool idea. Obviously not
enough preproduction was done.

The DP does NOT know how to properly simulate P.O.V. shooting.

Having a music score was absurd! An equally eerie effect, could have
been achieved using total silence combined with simple, unnerving
sounds. Think of the scene in "Das Boot" where the U69 is lying on the
bottom, and all that can be heard among the silence is a ticking
stopwatch, drips of water, and the hull groaning.

Jason was such a self absorbed jackass, that NOBODY cares what he has
to say, or what happens to him. Also, even an douche like Jason, will
put the camera down to save his own ass. There should have been scenes
(like when Tracy is being chased thru the woods, or the hospital) where
Jason sits down the camera to help out. The camera could have recorded
part of the image, or shadows, along with sound to keep the audience
abreast of what's happening. Not seeing everything could have been used
to create suspense, and give Jason a chance not to be such a schmuck.

Samuel was whacked far too soon. He was too interesting to kill off so
fast. He shouldn't have been killed, until the heart attack guy was
loose in the "Black Panther" compound. Plus, imagine the possibilities
of Samuel and a deaf Black Panther, hitting it off thru sign language.
This was such a wasted chance for interesting character development.

I think it's great that George wants to make a social comment, but
Effin' A man-lighten up! 

Spoiled, multi-millionaire kid is wearing the same grungy mummy costume
for three days, after he's back home in a huge mansion, with a huge
wardrobe? NOT! This is totally unbelievable! I know George wanted to
have his mummy chase at the end. But, the guy's clothing could be
dirty/disheveled enough from dragging around the undead, that it would
have a mummy-like appearance. Thus, the sight gag would still work, and
be a lot more realistic.

A 100 lb kid being thrown against, and pinned to the wall, off the
floor, by an aluminum arrow? It defies the most basic physics! Nobody
is buying it. The sister should have thrown him off her back, against
the wall. Then he should have been shot with the arrow. And instead of
staying pinned to the wall, after a second, the arrow should have
snapped. The kid sliding to the floor, and leaving a skid mark of blood
and brains, would have been a more shocking visual to boot.

Oh-and with the exception of about four cast members, the acting licked
turds! 

George Romero still has my utmost respect. But while a nice try, on
this venture I give him a C minus. George-now that a sequel is in the
works, PLEASE use better preproduction this time. And find a crew with
the stones to tell you if something is a bad idea-instead of those who
would blow smoke up your ass. I think those Canadians are afraid of
offending the master....unlike us Yinzers, who regard George as "a nice
guy to drink an Ahrn City with."
<|_=00=_|>
Short Background, I LOVE ZOMBIE FILMS.

not this one.

I was eager to throw on this "Groundbreaking" film. I was told that
Romero had come up with a new and interesting twist to the world of the
living dead. HE DID NOT.

Most Zombie films don't tote the biggest name actors or the highest
budget. What they do have is a loyal cult following. George Romero
especially. I watched this film with two other people, my cousin who is
into ridiculous gore and lots of decapitations, my father who enjoys
inventive twists and good dialog, and myself, i lie in between these
two. We were all disappointed. There were barely any zombies. The
characters were idiotic and unlikable. The use of the internet was
somewhat inventive but turned out dumb because Romero overkilled the
animosity it generated within the core characters. The acting was
atrocious, understandable right? Zombie flicks love to use unknowns. At
least in movies like flight of the living dead there was some comedy,
about the only good thing other than the deaths. The dialog was idiotic
at parts and border line Ayn Rand at others, the use of profuse
philosophy creates an awkwardness in films, even more so when its not
consistent. Having said all that, there was one part I did enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
George A. Romero is one of those filmmakers who shouldn't need an
introduction. If you're a horror fan at all, you should be intimately
familiar with his Dead series by now, and if you're a movie fan at all,
you should at least know Night Of The Living Dead and Dawn Of The Dead,
the first and still the strongest entries in the genre. It's no
hyperbole to say that Romero essentially invented the zombie movie,
gave it the structures and tones that have relentlessly followed the
genre through 40 years of movie history.

Diary Of The Dead, Romero's new movie and latest entry into the 5-part
series, is a return to the form and feel of his original classic Night
Of The Living Dead. The three movies in between (the classic Dawn,
hit-or-miss Day and severely underrated Land) showed a world consumed
by destruction and fear, already well past the point of no return in an
unthinkable apocalypse. Diary takes us back to the beginning, taking
place during the first few days of the attacks, documenting how a group
of college students (and one drunken professor) cope with the crisis
growing around them.

The hook of the movie is that what we're seeing is not presented in a
typical film fashion, but instead as a series of homemade video clips
made by the characters themselves. While shooting their own low-budget
horror movie, the students are interrupted by the sudden, jarring
realization that freshly dead bodies are coming back to life and
attacking people. What follows is a documentation of their quick
departure from their suddenly deserted campus and their long trip to
home, safety and any sort of an answer.

If the plot description has you thinking of The Blair Witch Project or
Cloverfield, the comparison ends with the initial conceit of horror via
home movies. There's no shaky-cam addled suspense here, and you won't
ever feel motion sick. The camera's presence in the movie serves to
give a heightened feeling of suspense and immediacy. Unlike most other
zombie movies, there's no outside camera telling the story, letting us
know where the zombies are and when they're coming. We follow the
characters through the movie, and the threat of danger is always
palpable, even when nothing on screen is particularly frightening.
Hitchcock once said that surprise was a bomb going off under a table
unexpectedly, while suspense was letting the audience know there is a
bomb under the table while the characters remain unaware. Diary is a
movie with thousands of bombs waiting under thousands of tables,
waiting to explode every time the camera turns a new corner.

After Land Of The Dead, a great movie that felt buried beneath a huge
budget and massive studio interference, it's great to see Romero
returning to his indie roots. Diary is entirely his own movie, and he
gets the tone perfect. The campy scares and the gross-out gore
explosions are all present, and will delight fan boys to no end. (They
sure got some big laughs out of me.) But what Romero does best is
suddenly switch from fun to disturbing when you least expect it. The
best moments of Diary come when the gory thrill ride comes screeching
to a halt and everything suddenly becomes all too relatable, entirely
too real. These are the moments that will stick with you after the gory
brain-splatter effects have lost their novelty.

Diary isn't quite a perfect movie though. Occasionally the hand-held
camera device becomes too distracting and begins to get in the way of
the story. The movie takes too much time rationalizing why the
characters decide to film the events, rather than trusting the audience
to go along with the idea. At times it feels like the movie is
apologizing for its own concept, which it definitely does not need to
do. We don't need to know the details of why the movie is edited, or
why music has been added. The explanations slow down the movie, and
only highlight problems instead of fixing them. Also, the pace slows
down quite a bit in the third act, which is when Romero movies usually
jolt up to a fevered pitch. Stick it out though, because the movie's
last sequence, and especially its last line of dialog, are worth the
price of admission alone. This is most likely not the end of the Dead
saga, but if it were, it could not have come to a more perfect
conclusion than the jarring, horrific last shot Romero gives us.
<|_=00=_|>
**Nothing in my comment will spoiler the movie more than it already was
but still if you have issues with spoilers don't read the last
paragraph**

Let me start by saying Romero is one of my favorite horror film makers
since he gave me such a fright with his Dead trilogy when I was a kid,
especially with Dawn of the Dead that I was unable to sleep without my
dad keeping watch for months (poor guy). No one, I mean no one, ever
frightened me like that again. Therefore I will always love and respect
him, no matter what. But the truth be told, Diary of the Dead is such a
lame and amateurish film that Land of the Dead which I didn't like very
much, looks like a masterpiece compared to this.

You know the story, a couple of unlikable characters who are making a
horror movie in the woods realize that there's an actual break-out
going on in the world and they set off to find their families (more
like to find one person's family in the group) and decide to film the
whole thing while they're at it. And that's it... That's the whole
story. 

The rest is a sad portrait of Romero trying to fill in the blanks
between his fantasy zombie-killing methods which are absolutely lame
and stretched like shocking a zombie with a defibrillator, or breaking
a bottle of strong acid on a zombie's head and while you don't even
hurt a finger the zombie's skull melts in seconds. And don't even get
me started on that stretched-as-hell clown zombie scene. It's so
obvious that Romero only focused on realizing his fantasies and ideas
he's been accumulating for years that he didn't give a flying f*** what
the movie looked like. 

However, Romero uses this lack-of-a-story aspect wisely and fills the
whole vast space with his "and the message of this movie ladies and
gentlemen..." card. It makes me really sad to think that he used to
deliver these rightful messages quite subtle back in his day but now he
simply blabbers trying to attack a different aspect of society this
time: The Mass Media. He also makes use of the internet, the blogs and
mobile phones as well as anything that records, probably in order to
catch the attention of the youth audience. However, he's not only
clearly displaying his absolute lack-of-info on all this technology but
he also fails with delivering his "Media is bad" message. 

All through the movie everyone is talking about "finding the truth the
media hides" and they go as far as to make a movie to tell everyone
this "truth" which is: "the zombies are real". This point of the movie
was so absurd that I was shocked anyone could write such a senseless
script let alone our beloved Romero. All our characters first hears the
news from the radio, every section of the media repeatedly reports that
"dead returning to life" which is quite a bold statement enough already
for the first day but still, there's this whole "media is hiding the
truth and we should uncover it" thing strained throughout the movie
that it makes you want to scream "What's there to hide?! Everyone is
dead already!" Also, exactly why our characters make a documentary and
which survivor would waste their time watching something they've
already been through is unclear. There are so many holes with this
whole internet and documentary angle that I won't go any further.

Finally, lovable characters we are used to seeing in Romero's movies
whom you root for, are gone. We have the clich√© all-star team of
slasher movies. None of them are believable or likable. Just check out
the "hilarious" joke one of them makes upon seeing their very first
zombie. Or the incredibly fast emotional recovery of the blonde girl
who has just lost her boyfriend. The super-brave lead actress who don't
think twice before frying a zombie in her first actual close-up
encounter. How about the lead guy who never drops his camera like it's
super-glued to his hands (This is the biggest, the most striking
negative the movie has). And the wise professor who keeps on delivering
poetic lines while you keep asking "What the hell is this guy doing
here and what's with that hilarious set of bow and arrows?"

There are so many more things to say but I'll let you enjoy determining
those on your own since there are plenty.

All in all, we friggin love you Romero, but this movie completely and
utterly sucks.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all: I'm a huge fan of Romero's first three (quite
disappointed with Land of the Dead) classic Dead movies, and have great
respect and admiration for his work and the influence he and his movies
have had on the entire horror movie genre. Along with Lucio Fulci and
Dario Argento, Romero is without any doubt one of the most influential
and important horror/splatter/zombie directors of all time. No question
about it!

In Diary, Romero once again focuses on a few surviving people and the
relationships between them, rather than the zombies and the gore. This
is what has always made his movies great and powerful. In all his
films, the zombies themselves work mostly as a reason to explain why a
small group of very different people is suddenly forced to rely on, and
help each other out, while the main focus is on the relationships
between these people and the reactions and emotions that might erupt
during such an extreme and interesting situation as a zombie outbreak.

While this formula is what has made his previous films interesting and
entertaining, it is sadly what makes Diary of the Dead the exact
opposite. And the reason for that are simply the actors. The main
characters are all (except one) film school students, being just as
shallow and cocky as every other cast of kids in any other "new" horror
movie. The actors (all being young and unknown) seem quite
inexperienced, and they all fail miserably to convince me, even for a
second, that this is anything other than a bad student movie, trying
desperately to be something more than it really is. And when ONE single
interesting character (the mute Amish man armed with a scythe) is
finally introduced, he sure doesn't stick around for very long.

A movie like this depends heavily on the actors, and when you seriously
wish the entire cast would turn into zombies, just so they can shut up,
the entire film, including the once great director, has failed.

The script itself, on the other hand, is actually quite good. There are
some annoying things, like at the beginning when a couple of kids
decides to leave school and go home and fortify themselves in a
mansion, based solely on a radio broadcast, reporting about 6 cases of
"strange zombie-like attacks". But over all it is an interesting script
and I totally understand what Mr. Romero had in mind, and what he hoped
to accomplish. Too bad the actors ruined it for him. A group of
kids/students can also never be as interesting as a group of real
grownups from different parts of society (as in Dawn of the Dead), and
I really hope that Romero will leave the kids alone and once more focus
on interesting characters, would he ever decide to do another movie
(there are rumors of a Diary of the Dead part 2).

Better luck next time.
