
I gave this a complete 10 because both the wife and I (as well as the
other movie-goers -going by their reactions) thoroughly enjoyed it from
the beginning to the very end.

Was it predictable? Of course. Its an animation geared towards children
(what would you expect?) -but like most of the animation movies of
today, there were quite a few 'hidden humor' spots as well which would
be completely missed by the younger audience (not unexpected since it
is the adults, after all, who are forking over the bread and it doesn't
hurt to keep THEM entertained as well). The movie is fairly fast-paced
and the animation well done. I'm usually a little apprehensive when
I've harbored good expectations from a movie based on clips/previews,
but in this case I felt it truly delivered. This one will be added to
our library when it (eventually) hits the shelves. Too many people look
for a great amount of depth and unpredictability in animation movies
-but THAT is a bit unrealistic (no pun intended) -think about it: These
things USED to be called CARTOON MOVIES for a reason. They weren't
intended to fit that kind of expectation. They ARE intended to be fun
-and this movie is just that: FUN.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Hotel Transylvania last night in a small group of adults
aged 24-30 and I LMAO as did the others. The theater was packed with
little children who mostly laughed at not really funny parts and adults
who laughed when the children were quite silent. The story is about
Count Dracule trying to raise his only child safe and sound away from
terrifying humans and invites all the monsters to his hotel to relax
and celebrate his very young daughter's 118th birthday which is
accompanied by a surprise visitor! 

This is a really funny movie with a simple predictable story line and
tons of characters that you will love. My favorites were the zombies
who were the hotel staff and it took them forever to finish a task. I
recommend this movie to anyone who like monsters ( so afraid of a
little boy licking ice-cream)and want to have a good laugh and take a
break from Disney.
<|_=00=_|>
Cute movie. Has a couple of great messages -- especially one about
prejudices. There are some adult jokes, some childish jokes, lots of
laugh out loud moments but most importantly the following messages:
Hatred against those we don't know is wrong; Let yourself get to know a
person before deciding whether they are good or not; and go along for
the ride and let yourself enjoy life.

I also love the fact that this is a Dad raising his child situation.
There are really few movies that show a Dad can step up and do the
right thing for their children if given the chance.

While I didn't particularly care for the fart joke or some of the
childish parts the kids in the theater laughed and laughed.

Well done!
<|_=00=_|>
Can you say thoroughly entertaining? I went by myself because the
little people in my world were unavailable, and the big people are too
cool for animation. I sat there cracking up with the kids behind me.

Let's face it; Adam sander has had a few bombs lately. He redeemed
himself quite nicely with this one. I generally dislike movies with a
hit you over the head message of peace, love, and brotherhood, but this
I liked. Hotel reminds us not to judge before getting to know someone.
It also showcases a single dad nicely.

I liked that the father had his flaws and was unashamedly protective of
his kid...even going so far as being underhanded to keep her safe. It
gives a balanced view of parents who sometimes try so hard and still
manage to muddle up their lives and that of their kids'.

There is nothing terribly scary for even young viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
..took my family to see this one today, 6 year old son, 3 year old
daughter..

Both of them really enjoyed the experience, though to be honest i think
my daughter connected with the movie more because of the plight of
Dracula's young daughter being the focal point of the story. That
really surprised me!

Any horror fan with kids will get a real kick out of this one. And even
non-horror fans should find the story cute. Sandler and company really
pull it together for this one, after their last couple of films were
less then stellar.

Definitely a pleasant surprise, and good fun for the whole family.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading reviews that either disliked or were indifferent to Hotel
Transylvania and being dubious because Adam Sandler(who has been in a
lot of really bad movies recently) was in the lead role, I was unsure
of whether to see the film. But my love for animation and the
appetising trailer over-rode my doubts and I saw it anyway. And you
know what, while The Pirates and ParaNorman were better animated movies
from this year in my opinion I found Hotel Transylvania much better
than expected. More could have been done with the relationship between
Jonathan and Mavis, it is a romantic angle that has been used many
times before and as well as feeling somewhat under-baked very little
new was done with it. While a vast majority of the film is fast-paced
with no real dull spots, some parts of the film did feel rushed. On the
other point of view, the animation is excellent, the backgrounds are
both beautiful and Gothic and that is the same with the colours. The
characters are well-modelled. The soundtrack is catchy and upbeat,
though some of the songs could have been more than just snippets. The
writing is zany and often witty with a surprising amount of heart also.

The story is predictable, but not dull. It has a number of great
moments, the genre references are not as inspired as they were in
ParaNorman but they are fun to spot, and I loved a lot of the
slapstick-in-style gags. Especially the zombie Beethoven, the scream
cheese Hors-D'Oeuvres, the shrunken heads do not disturb tags and the
digs at Twilight(much more fulfilling than any of the movies combined).
But it does have a lot of heart. Is the over-protective father idea
clich√©d? Of course. But I did find it genuinely touching instead of
overly-exaggerated as I have seen described. Dracula's past is also
shown in a darkly emotional way. The characters are not the most
memorable I have ever seen, but they do have their likability, my
favourite here was Dracula. And the voice acting was surprisingly
great, to me from a non-fan who has liked him in some movies(Punch
Drunk Love, Reign Over Me, Spanglish and Happy Gilmore) and hated him
in others(Jack and Jill, Going Overboard, Zookeeper and Mr Deeds) Adam
Sandler gives one of his better performances of late in the role of
Dracula, he is actually funny as well as emotive in alternative to
irritating. Selena Gomez is endearing as daughter Mavis and Adam
Samberg brings some heroism to Jonathan. Kevin James, David Spade, Jon
Lovitz, Fran Drescher and especially Steve Buscemi give solid support.
In conclusion, surprisingly good. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie really with no expectations. I had only seen a
few fragments of commercials and got nothing at all interesting from
them. So, WOW, was I surprised and impressed when I saw it!! The movie
was a creative story, quick moving action, funny, heartwarming,
visually interesting and sometimes surprising - this film had a lot of
great things going on, and I found myself really engaged and far more
interested in the characters than I would have guessed. Sure, there
were a few "as if" moments, but for the most part I found it to be fun,
funny, and a film I heartily recommend! Kudos to the writers, voice
actors and animators.... With a youngster in my home, I'm sure we'll be
seeing this again soon.
<|_=00=_|>
The, I think, is a movie that is fun for the whole family. Youngsters
will like the characters, the older children will enjoy the jokes and
plot, and the adults will likely enjoy the movie as well, being able to
catch on to the more "adult" funny references and a story about a
father-daughter relationship that can be appreciated. 

The movie is fairly fast paced, but most cartoons are, especially ones
that are just 91 minutes long. If you're planning to take your 3 year
old to appreciate the plot, connect with the characters, and understand
the meaning of family and love... that's not happening... it is a
children's movie but it's not Sesame Street. 

My husband and I took our 2 1/2 year old because it seemed like a cute
movie to watch. It was. Our son sat through the entire movie and danced
with the music, etc. We enjoyed it as well.

Was it EXTRAORDINARY? No. Was it a good, fun family film? Yes. 

I would recommend it. If you're unsure about paying for a ticket at the
theater, you can always wait for the DVD to come out.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone remembers that special movie they saw or that one that was the
best for your mind, that one which really stuck. For me that movie was
"Hotel Transylvania". I think it was one of the best children's movie
ever made. It conveys humor, creativity, action and freedom. 

Set in Transylvania in modern time, Dracula (Adam Sandler) hosts all
the legendary monsters at his hotel to celebrate his daughter's one
hundred and eighteenth birthday. But he works overtime to keep Mavis
(Selena Gomez) from falling for a human boy named Johnny (Andy
Samberg), who miraculously stumbles upon the hotel. All Mavis has ever
wanted is to leave home and see the real world and see if humans are as
bad as her father says they are. The main characters are Selena Gomez
as Mavis, Andy Samberg as Johnny and Adam Sandler as Dracula. It is a
brilliant cast for this movie.

Selena Gomez was perfect for the part of Mavis and did a great job
while Andy Samberg was good but wasn't perfect for Johnny. I think he
could've done a much better job. Adam Sandler was born to play the part
of Dracula. He did a magnificent job and was extremely humorous. The
other characters were great and they matched their roles perfectly!

I liked that we got to know the characters and what their goal was. For
example Mavis wanted freedom and wanted to leave home. What I didn't
like is that it was a bit confusing. For example, "Why was Johnny
hiking in Transylvania at night?" or "Why didn't Mavis just turn in to
a bat and fly away to see the real world?" These questions make you
wonder but I still think it was a wonderful movie even for my age
group. 

I think the moral of the story was trust your children to make the
right decisions no matter what you think about them and from the child
point of view the moral was to know your parents are always just trying
to protect you. And both are true and if you look at them from both
sides you will get the full story. I think that this is a movie for age
groups above five and below fifteen. Reason being because Dracula does
a fang up where his face goes a bit creepy but other wise I'm sure
parents will love it and children between the ages of five and fifteen
will love it to.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big Universal Horror and Hammer Horror fan, but my 5 year old son
is obviously a bit young to experience Dracula, The Mummy, The
Invisible Man and Frankenstein in their true form, so it's great that a
lighthearted movie has finally been released that kids can check out. I
was a bit worried that my 5 year old would be a bit scared by some of
the scenes, but this movie is totally kid safe. The scariest thing that
happens is a couple of loud screams and some glowing red eyes. No
problem.

Adam Sandler does a great job as the voice of Dracula. Not too over the
top and constantly delivering some great lines. Andy Samberg and Selina
Gomez (surprisingly) both do a great job as Jonathan (nice touch) and
Mavis respectively. I also loved Steve Buscemi as "Wayne".
Unfortunately Fran Drescher who can usually deliver some sharp witty
comedy isn't allowed to shine as her jokes throughout the film have
been done to death and didn't bring much to the film at all. 

There are some great hidden jokes/sight gags, and some beautiful
animation and character designs that will please old school horror fans
and adults, but the only part that I found utterly cringe worthy was
the end scene with Dracula rapping (even after his joke about
Twilight!) Hey, gotta please the kids somehow...
