
I was able to see this film at a special screening in France, and I
can't get the images out of my head--it was a visual masterpiece!
Avoiding the typical (and now antiquated) shooting and editing style of
the band's previous pieces and (intentionally?) omitting any backstage
interviews, the filmmakers have brought you to a live show in Latin
America--to the center of frenzied chaos in the faster songs, grace in
the slower ones and then those inexplicable moments where you promise
yourself you won't tear up but do--the three best elements of a live U2
show, if you ask me. At one point, I put my hand in the air thinking I
was there, because the filmmakers have cleverly positioned the cinema
audience behind the live concert audience in the film--you'll even find
yourself wanting to tell a guy to put his hand down in front of you,
and you'll have to stop yourself. Avoiding any tacky Jaws 3-D style
sight gags where any one object is pointing straight at you, the
filmmakers instead just grab you, and bring you along for a visually
rich and sonically groundbreaking ride--and all you'll pay is a cost of
movie ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
I will start by saying that I am a little biased in this review because
I am a HUGE U2 fan. I have seen this band live and up close many times.
They are incredible live, no band grabs a hold of an audience the way
U2 does.

The new 3D film comes as close as possible to showing the viewer what
it FEELS like to be at U2 concert. When this film was announced, I was
afraid that the film would be a hi tech 3D thrill ride, while it might
be cool to look at, the band would be obscured by the 3D theatrics. I
was totally wrong!!! The way that the effect is used take nothing away
from the performance. It doesn't feel gimmicky in any way. There are a
couple of moments where there are some nice animated 3D graphics but
they are used sparingly, but to great effect. The important element of
the film of course is the band. U2 is still as passionate as ever, and
even thought some critics have turned on them for being TOO BIG, they
are as relevant as ever, This band's music has always been wide eyed
and bigger than life.

This film capture's exactly that!!!! My only wish is that so many great
songs were left out of the film. 

U2 is the reason to see this film, not the 3D!!!

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
The peculiar thing about this report is that I am not a rock fan, not
by a long shot. Of course, I could not be allowed to live in San
Francisco without some appreciation for the Grateful Dead, but that's
about it.

When it comes to U2, I know far more about Bono's commendable social
activities than of the band's performances.

A labored preamble is necessary to put this in context: "U2 3D" has
simply knocked me - a passionate fan of opera and classical music - on
my limited-crossover backside. It is a spectacular, musically and
visually superb experience, certain to enchant any classical-music
fan... if only the fan is not too fanatic to stay away. Watching it, I
kept wishing for the "Ring" to be produced with this kind of passion,
commitment, hanging ten every moment, and the creation of such stunning
images. An important added bonus: unlike other rock films, this one is
not deafening, not even in the IMAX setting.

For over a quarter-century, says the PR release, U2 has been recognized
not only for their musical innovation, but for their incomparable gift
for reaching millions of fans through new technologies. "U2 3D" - the
first digital 3-D, multi-camera, real-time production - reflects the
band's longstanding embrace of technology and its belief that "U2 3D"
has the potential to revolutionize digital 3D technology. Marrying
advanced digital 3-D imagery and 5.1 Surround Sound with the unique
excitement of a live U2 concert, "U2 3D" takes viewers on an
extraordinary cinematic journey, a quantum leap beyond traditional
concert films.

Directed by Catherine Owens and Mark Pellington, "U2 3D" is a
production of 3ality Digital Entertainment starring Bono, The Edge,
Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr.

I would detail my rapture about the screening of this most stunning of
concert films, but I was pre-empted: read Eliot Van Buskirk's Wired
report - 

"With 3-D glasses trained on the Imax screen at the Luxor Casino in Las
Vegas, I felt I was experiencing more of the U2 concert from my theater
chair than I would have in person. Chalk it up to the impossible camera
angles, the breathtaking close-ups and panoramas, or the convincing
nature of the latest 3-D technology, but I was really there: watching
guitarist-keyboardist The Edge play a Fender Rhodes from a vantage
point 4 feet above his head, seeing lead singer Bono's hand reach out
to the crowd, and flying through a massive stadium lit up by thousands
of cellphones waving in unison like a school of glowing sea creatures. 

"The capacity crowds filling these South American soccer stadiums go
absolutely mad for the music of U2. Their hands wave to the beat just a
few feet in front of you. Their enthusiasm is wildly infectious.

"Every development in the history of cinema has always been about
making the experience more realistic, whether going from silent to
talkies, or black-and-white to color," said John Rodell, the producer I
spoke with outside the theater. "We see the world in 3-D, so this is a
natural progression, now that the technological limitations have been
conquered." 

"The 3-D format goes a long way toward making the movie great, but the
film would not have been nearly as powerful with the cameras pointed at
most other bands. U2's musicians are masterful performers, and the epic
nature of their songs and stage act lends itself perfectly to
larger-than-life treatment.

"Still, watching a movie is a passive experience; to keep viewers fully
engaged for more than an hour, Sassoon Film Design added a smattering
of clever visual effects somewhat reminiscent of the square that Uma
Thurman's character draws in the air in 'Pulp Fiction'. Post-production
staffers also added animated versions of U2's backdrop videos - most
notably a series of icons suggesting that the world's major religions
are one. To capture multiple band members in the same frame, the
filmmakers added as many as five 3-D layers to the final cut.

"Other than that, U2 3D includes little visual or audio trickery. The
band insisted that no audio overdubs be included; every note in the
film was played live (although for on-stage close-ups, U2 agreed to be
filmed playing one show to an empty stadium). "I could make my cat
sound like a good singer with Pro Tools," said Rodell, "but we didn't
use any of that. What you see there are those guys, playing that night,
in front of 90,000 people."
<|_=00=_|>
While the 3D is fun and the graphic enhancements terrific (editors and
CGI now have a third dimension to work their magic), it's the
performance and the music that make this worth seeing. With no fuss or
delay, the concert jump starts and it's an amazing non-stop ride even
throughout the closing credits. 

A special cheer to Peter Anderson and Tom Krueger's cinematography
which revels in the epic size of the crowds, and places the band
members in beautiful--if formal--juxtaposition to the mass of humanity
that's writhing in time to the music. It's all just a little terrifying
when you consider four people step out on a stage in front of these
cheering numbers (I've one question: Is everyone in Argentina
beautiful? I've never seen a more handsome crowd.) 

Olivier Wicki eschews fancy editing and uses the impressive set piece
that toured with the band and creates beautiful dissolves that include
wonderful use of that new third dimension. His restraint is spectacular
to watch.

Not since Demme's "Stop Making Sense" has there been such an infusion
of unabashed joy on the screen for a rock concert. The song set from
the Vertigo tour includes:

"Vertigo" "New Year's Day" "Beautiful Day" "Sometimes You Can't Make It
on Your Own" "Love and Peace" "Sunday Bloody Sunday" "Bullet the Blue
Sky" "Miss Sarajevo" "Pride (In the Name of Love)" "Where the Streets
Have No Name" "One" "The Fly" "With or Without You" and, over the
closing credits "Yahweh"

You really need to see this in the Imax format if at all possible, but
even if forced to watch in an analog television, you'll be thrilled and
touched by U2's famed skill and their social conscience.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so good. Nothing I write here can prepare you for how
good it is. I though it was crazy that people were paying more to see
this at sundance than they would pay to see the show live, but this is
100x better than being there live. We are Lucky to be able to see this
show for $10 when it hits theaters this week.

An independent film using 3-D is a phenomenon that we will start seeing
more and more of. This movie makes me want to have 3d in my living
room. Can't wait for the new 3d player to hit the home The director is
a genius. She had every type of 3-d Camera available to her.

You will be hearing a lot about this film coming up.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a U2 Fan for 25 years. Unfortunately, I've never seen them
live. Until now. And boy was it worth the wait. U23D sets you front row
to one of the greatest bands of all time. You feel their presence as
though they are playing just for you. The 3D was astonishing, but even
without it it stands as one of the greatest concert films I've seen.
The lighting, camera work and music make the 85 min running time seem
like 20 minutes, I personally wished it was twice as long. This world
is filled with atrocities and war, But the one shining star on this
planet is Bono. He is a great entertainer and one of the greatest
humanitarians on this planet, and for that I praise him and for all
that U2 stands for. As a planet we could learn a lot from him. But do
yourself a favor, even if you are not a fan, go see this show. You will
not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a huge U2 fan, I know 3-4 songs of theirs, can sing along 2 of
those, but this movie was AMAZING! The concert was brilliant, the
direction was amazing, everything was well thought of, really worth it
actually! I just wish it was more than 80mins, I really enjoyed it.

The new Real D technology is really great, giving beautiful
stereoscopic vision, with images extending in front and behind the
screen. Just try to sit as close to the screen as possible, and you'll
be trying to touch Bono's face or grab his microphone from his hand!

So, this movie made me want to come home and order some U2 albums, I
was singing the "Beautiful day" all the way to home, and I've been told
that I had this silly smile throughout the screening. All in all, I
really enjoyed it and i definitely suggest to all U2 fans, and not
only, to go and see this concert!
<|_=00=_|>
I took my husband as a Valentine adventure to the IMAX in downtown
Austin. My cynical nature had me prepared for unnecessary 3-D actions,
but the naturalness the band used when interacting with the cameras was
a testament to what consummate performers they are. I did find myself
annoyed a few times with the waving arms and the people on the
shoulders only because in my enraptured state I thought it was people
in the theater.....duh. Glad I fought the urge to shout, "OY! Down in
front!" The disclaimer from the theater staff at the beginning about
the volume level they were required to play the film at made me nervous
at first as I was afraid of having ringing ears the rest of the
evening. It was concert loud but not too loud and it helped cover for
the fact that I ended up singing along in my nasally off-key Midwestern
tones and no one around me could hear it! I wished people in the
theater had gotten the urge to jump up and dance and truly immerse
themselves in the concert feel of it! I would have joined in, but was
too scared to be the first and perhaps only one. I like to have fun,
but loathe to be "that person" that gets discussed over dinner
afterward. I had to laugh at the times I flinched when crowd action
caught me off-guard. I was moved by the whole experience and it made me
long for the days when I was young enough to brave festival seating.
Only wish I had heard The Edge do "Numb"....maybe next 3-D Dfilm? In
the meantime, going to play my Rattle and Hum and Zooropa DVDs to keep
the buzz going....
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I'm not a huge fan, but really love their early 80s stuff
such as Sunday, Bloody Sunday, New Year's Day, etc. My husband is a
huge fan and likes the newer music. This blended both and although he
wished a few more obscure songs such as "Exit" overall it was great!
You can't have everything! I've seen Harry Potter in IMAX 3D and had
the reaching out experience and thought I'd be so cool about it, but I
did want to reach out and touch Bono/The Edge on several occasions. I
also wanted to join in singing/dancing, but it wasn't to be, but my
head did bob in time with the music. The camera work was incredible and
seeing the monstrous stadium mad me appreciate the smaller ones here in
the States! Bono was a little preachy, but that's sort of to be
expected Every group needs a 3D movie! I can think of a few to start...
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a long-time fan since 9th grade (1983 when "War" was released).

I've always believed that rock and roll is best experienced in smaller
bars, clubs and theaters. But when "Achtung Baby" came out, I got
tickets anyway to the Zoo TV tour in 1992 at Madison Square Garden.
While I enjoyed that (the roar of the crowd, the excitement of your
fellow fans, and the manic energy of the band) I was all the way up in
the nosebleed seats and felt a little removed. And frankly the sound
wasn't the best (boomy, kinda got lost up in the ceiling). Sure, they
had the jumbotrons to broadcast big images of the band, but it's just
not the same as being at the front of the stage in a club.

"U23D" brings the best of both worlds together: you see the immense
scale of the stadium audience, but you also get to see the band up
close and personal on stage. The filmmakers did a great job capturing
the energy and enthusiasm of the South American stadium crowds and the
unique bond this band has with its fans.

What struck me about the particular performances captured for this film
were "Bullet the Blue Sky" and "Sunday Bloody Sunday": Bono has this
tendency to editorialize during some songs and it can come across as
preachy at best and forced at worst. Here though, he works in a custom
version of "When Johnny Comes Home" to great effect during "Bullet"
that really moved me ("Doesn't matter what he's seen or where he's been
as long as Johnny comes home").

During "Sunday Bloody Sundy" Bono points to a "Coexist" head band
someone in the crowd gave him and points to it and says "Muslims, Jews,
Christiansit's all truewe're all children of Abraham. Abraham, speak
to your sons." It made me sad because somehow I don't think there will
ever be peace in the Middle East. And the superiority that some
Evangelicals here in the U.S. have over other religions will probably
never go away either. How long must we sing this song, indeed.

Sonically, I wish it had been a little louder, but it still sounded
very good. My wife, while she enjoyed it, found herself feeling like
she was still observing a lot of other people having fun at a concert.
But I felt like I was there.

If you're a U2 fan, you gotta see this before it leaves the IMAX
theater near you. It's definitely worth every penny. I'll probably see
it one more time before it goes....
