
I don't know the stars, or modern Chinese teenage music - but I do know
a thoroughly entertaining movie when I see one.

Kung Fu Dunk is pure Hollywood in its values - it's played for laughs,
for love, and is a great blend of Kung Fu and basketball.

Everybody looks like they had a lot of fun making this - the production
values are excellent - and modern China looks glossier than Los Angeles
here.

The plot of the abandoned orphan who grows up in a kung fu school only
to be kicked out and then discover superstardom as a basketball play
(and love and more etc;) is great - this is fresh, fun, and immensely
entertaining.

With great action and good dialogue this is one simply to enjoy - for
all ages - and for our money was one of the best family movies we're
seen in a long time.

Please ignore the negative reviews and give Dunk a chance - we were
really glad we did - a GOOD sports comedy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Clearly inspired by the success of Stephen Chow's Shaolin Soccer, Kung
Fu Dunk, starring Jay Chou, is another slick sports/martial arts mix-up
full of wire-enhanced action and CGI; but where Chow's film regularly
bangs 'em in the back of the net, Dunk is far less reliable, the ball
frequently rolling around the rim but failing to go in.

The 'pure' basketball scenes work well enoughÂ—expertly choreographed
and hyper-energetic, they are the highlight of the film; likewise, the
kung fu is fairly impressive when it happens. However, unlike Shaolin
Soccer, which effectively combined its sports action with its crazy
comic-book fantasy fighting, Kung Fu Dunk fails to make the two
elements gel, the result being a film which switches awkwardly from one
genre to the other. Similarly, the film's dramatic content lacks
fluidity, director Yen-ping Chu clumsily juggling his over-sentimental
themes of unrequited love, petty rivalry, and the importance of
friendship and team spirit over individual wealth and success.

On a purely aesthetic note, the special effects are absolutely dazzling
(standout scene; the players and crowd at a basketball match are quite
literally frozen in time), and Charlene Choi is as appealing as ever,
but some well rendered icicles and one cute-as-a-button 'twin' isn't
quite enough to make this a winner.

5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is absolutely silly.

But were you expecting a high-brow intellectual film based on a comic
called Slam Dunk? Really? Jay Chou's acting isn't exactly the most
moving thing I've ever seen, but I certainly enjoyed the movie. Was it
somewhere near the level of awesome that someone like Jet Li or Stephen
Chow can produce? No, not really. Was it thoroughly entertaining if
you're just taking it at surface value? Absolutely. It's a movie about
some Chinese eye-candy idols and musicians who can play basketball at
an unreal level of expertise. There's an evil Triad-style dude and a
wacky scheming guy who gets Jay Chou involved in all of this. A love
interest. It's formulaic but really, suspend disbelief for a while.
Come on. It's called Kung Fu Dunk. What do you really think you signed
on for? Do yourself a favor if you watch it - I found myself a copy
with some Engrish subtitles that made the movie nigh unintelligible
conversation wise, but we got a great laugh out of it. They would
appear to be extremely fixated on Jerusalem and the numbers 1, 10.

I laughed, I cried, I hurled. I'd watch it again.

Especially for that fight scene in the bar. Well choreographed and well
shot. I especially enjoy the plexiglass lit pool table - I'd LOVE to
play on one of those.

Slick enough for me, but I dig on trash cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
First, the plot was flat, his raise into famous in this movie was not
explained how. From an orphan into famous basketball player. Second,
the video effects was mediocre. The movie was concentrating in
impossible style of basketball, die hard basketball fans wont happy to
see this. No real basketball play in this film maybe (if you say its
about kungfu, its not kungfu either, its too ridiculous). I'm a fans of
Jay Chou but I sad to see him play a bad movie like this. Secret and
Curse of the Golden Flower were a nice movie. I watched those and i'm
impress by his acting skill (which is improving since Initial D, esp in
Secret). THE ENDING? Jay release a kungfu aura to stop time to won the
game against rival. What the? Was that a kungfu? Maybe for popcorn
movie this is quite entertaining but for real movie, I'm sorry its not.
Watch Secret and Curse of Golden Flower instead for Jay's fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Lot of silly plot holes in the film. First we see him watching his
master practice kung-fu, and die in the midst of his practice. That's
fine with me. And then at the end of the film, we see him use the
kung-fu that he learned just by watching his master when he was still a
kid. Is that even possible? I don't think so.

This show is purely for Jay Chou fans, and the film lacks a depth in
terms of character development, cinematography styles and unfolding of
plot.

Anybody notice that the captain of the basket team (forgot his name)
and the idolized player Li Xiao look so similar to each other, to the
extent that you'd think they were the one and same person? Long hair,
sunshine-boy look, tall and strong. The two of them looked like they
came out from a mass production factory designed to churn out products
that makes teenage girls scream wild in orgasm. Not that those two
actors had anything of value to contribute to the movie as a whole for
the movie industry at all.

The jokes were lame and not funny at all.

The scene with regards to the 4 masters of Jay Chou coming back to help
him out in the basketball court, degenerated into a pointless plot when
they started bashing their opponents ala Royal Rumble style. Worse of
all, when the 4 masters won the fight, the crowd began cheering, and
the match continued. It was truly a WTF? moment.

At the end of the show, when they win the match, all thanks to Jay
Chou's excellent kung fu skills. How he acquired those kung-fu skills
is a mystery, because the show somehow shows him acquiring the skills
just by observing his master.

And then his long-lost father comes out of the woodwork to acknowledge
Jay Chou as his long-lost son seemed just a tad too quick of the
director to wrap up the film.

In short, this is a Jay Chou-flick (instead of the usual "chick
flick"). Watch it only if Jay Chou is your fan. If you are one of those
whose tastes in movies coincide greatly with those in the list of
IMDb's top 250 films of all time, then this film is not for you.
<|_=00=_|>
If you go looking on Netflix or Hulu you can watch this sports movie
Kung Fu Dunk. It stars Jay Chou. You might remember Jay Chou from the
movie The Green Hornet. Jay Chou plays a orphaned boy that grew up at a
kung fu school and eventually becomes a talented basketball player.
This movie is mixture of basketball, kung fu and a love story. 

Many people have compared this movie to Shaolin Soccer and may have
thought it wasn't as good. I actually like this movie. There are parts
of this movie that were really funny. In the beginning the kids master
dies trying to alter the universe. He ends up being frozen. I don't
know if I should be laughing or crying. There are elements that you
won't find in most sports movies. This movie doesn't follow the usual
formula for most sports movies. 

Parts of this movie did feel disjointed. There is the kung fu, the
basketball, a love story and the kid trying to reunite with his
parents. I feel like there is something that could have made it better.
If you can get around the flaws this is a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I have to say that the Cine Asia DVD cover promises more
than the movie actually delivers. Which just goes to prove, don't judge
a movie by its cover.

"Kung Fu Dunk" is a combination of basketball, Kung Fu and a
semi-romantic love story thrown into the midst. The end result was
entertaining enough. However, the movie didn't really fully get a
chance to spread out its wings and be all that it could have been. The
movie just brushed over the various topics on the storyline on the
surface. And that was a shame, because if the director had delved more
into the depths of some topics instead of trying to be everywhere at
once, then the movie would have had much more impact, depth and
meaning. Personally, I found the movie to be good entertainment, but it
was a rather shallow story, because it never took time to go into
depths with the topics.

The action scenes were nicely shot, and the Kung Fu scenes were really
well choreographed and looked nice. The basketball scenes, however,
well they were great, it was like you were there on the court with the
players. One thing that really didn't fit well into the movie, despite
it was amazing to look at and funny, was when the four Kung Fu masters
entered the basketball court and started fighting the Fireball team.
Sure it looked nice and there was a lot of nice effects, but come on,
it was just too much.

Being a long-time fan of Asian cinema, then it was really nice to see
some of the big guns from Hong Kong cinema appear in a Mandarin Chinese
movie. I haven't seen Eric Tsang (playing Zhen Li) in a long, long
time, so it was a nice treat to get to see him on the screen again. He
always brings some comical charm with him to the movies he is in. And
of course you had Hong Kong cutie, Charlene Choi (playing Lily), as
well and despite having a minor role she actually did it great, because
it was a step away from her usual sugar-coated late-teen love romance
roles (and it was nice to see her in a movie without Gillian Chung
around). Finally, in a small cameo role, you had huge Hong Kong movie
star from back in the day, Kenneth Tsang (playing Wang Yiwuan). His
role was very small, but still, just his presence there was awesome.

The movie's main actor, Jay Chou (playing Fang Shijie) was really
carrying the movie mostly by himself. He was really well-cast for this
role and he did a great job with his character.

"Kung Fu Dunk" suffered from a half-hearted storyline that never
explored its potential, and that was a shame, because the movie really
had potential for so much more.

If you liked "Shaolin Soccer", then the chances are that you will like
"Kung Fu Dunk" as well, though this movie is not as good as "Shaolin
Soccer". But still, it is entertaining and fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge basketball fan and anyone who has played and enjoyed the
"NBA Street" video game series will be right at home. Now, in order to
enjoy this thing, you need to immediately realize that you are not
about to watch a best picture nominee. It's a parody. An obvious one at
that. Did I have some issues with the film? Sure. It can be little
bland in spots and yes Shou can be dry at times, but overall, I enjoyed
myself. You watch, and see them do things that are pretty much
impossible, but you wish they did them in real NBA games. There
could've been more fight scenes (there were only 2) so there isn't a
ton of Kung-fu going on, but as a mindless, quick pick, you can't
really go wrong here. From some of the reviews i've read, people
obviously expected this film to be something it isn't. It isn't a
masterpiece, nor does it ever try to be. It simply wants to entertain,
and in that aspect, it does so just fine. I'm pretty high-brow myself,
but in this case people, just shut up and watch the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Kid found as a baby in the garbage and raised at a martial arts academy
has a knack for sinking baskets. With the help of the man who found him
he gets in to college and is promoted to the championship as he
searches for his real parents. Infinitely better in pieces action
comedy is a real mess as a whole. It seems to be striving for a hipper
basketball version of Shaolin Soccer, but the comedy is scatter shot,
its focus wanders more than a Chihuahua with ADD on quadruple espresso.
I kept asking "What am I watching". I watched it from start to finish
and I still don't know what the hell happened. Its a shame since there
are some great action scenes, some amusing jokes and the occasional
moment, but nothing, none of it ever comes together, I'd take a pass.
<|_=00=_|>
A mess of genres but it's mainly based on Stephen Chow's genre mash-ups
for it's inspiration. There's magic kung-fu, college romance, sports,
gangster action and some weepy melodrama for a topping. The production
is excellent and the pacing is fast so it's easy to get past the many
flaws in this film.

A baby is abandoned next to a basketball court. A homeless man brings
him to a Shaolin monastery that's in the middle of a city along with a
special kung fu manual that the homeless man somehow has but can't
read. The old monk teaches the boy but expires when he tries to master
the special technique in the manual. The school is taken over by a
phony kung fu master who is assisted by four wacky monks. The new
master gets mad at the now 20+ year old boy for not pretending to be
hurt by the master's weak punches and throws him out for the night. The
boy is found throwing garbage into a basket from an incredible distance
by a man who bring him to a gangster's club to play darts. This leads
to a big fight, the boy's expulsion from the monastery and the man's
decision to turn the boy into a college basketball sensation.

Al this happens in the first 20 minutes with most of it happening in
the first 10 minutes. Aside from the extreme shorthand storytelling the
first problem is how little we get to know the main character until way
into the movie. The man who uses the boy is more sharply defined by the
time the first third is over. The plot follows no new ground except for
the insane action climax of the film. I'm sure you can easily imagine
how the wacky monks will show up towards the end. The effects,
photography and stunt work are all top- notch and make up for the
uninspired plot. 

Stephen Chow has a much better command of plot and comedy writing and
this film will live in his shadow but that's not a good reason to
ignore it. It's quite entertaining even with a scatter-shot ending.
Recommended.
