
When I first saw the trailer for Baby Mama, I just thought this movie
was going to be a total disaster, it didn't look funny and like another
typical chick flick. But my friends wanted to see it, so we saw it
opening weekend, and actually I was surprised, I did like a lot better
than what I was expecting. Baby Mama is something that looks like from
the Lifetime Network, but it's all good, it has some really funny
moments and was just cute. Amy Poehler and Tina Fey are two very funny
women from Saturday Night Live, they also did Mean Girls together and
made their characters an absolute joy to watch, so seeing them as the
leads in this film was going to be an interesting turn. Tina Fey
definitely has a lot of talent not only as a writer, but as an actress,
she made her character believable and as neuritic as she was, she was
still likable. Amy Poehler made her character a little too SNL at
times, but these girls made the movie enjoyable and a fun flick to
watch for the afternoon.

Kate is a single and successful woman who seems to have it all in life,
but one thing she wants so bad is a baby. But one problem, her uterus
isn't liked by her doctor, in other words, she has a one in a million
chance of getting pregnant. After adoption woes and sperm donor
failures, she decides to get a sergeant mother who will get pregnant
and give her a child. She meets white trash couple, Angie and Carl.
Angie moves into Kate's apartment after her break up with Carl, so this
"odd couple" has to teach each other some new moves in life.

Baby Mama is actually worth the watch, I was very impressed with how
much I liked it, like I said, from the trailer, it doesn't seem like a
good movie, but when you watch it, you get the laughs and the smiles
that the movie promises. It is a chick flick, warning to people who
have a strong hatred for them, but I'm not a fan of chick flicks, and
you know what? I thought that this was just a fun movie that if you let
go and even enjoy the predictability, you'll find yourself loving Baby
Mama.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Say what you will about the marketing machine, but I truly think the
people behind promoting Baby Mama did a bang up jobeven if I believe
they did so without trying. They make expectations so low in the
trailer that you almost have to enjoy the film. Was it a great comedy?
No. However, it was much better than I ever could have hoped as Michael
McCullers takes us places you never would expect going in. I thought
that it would be a water-downed, overlong SNL skit with one woman
asking another to carry her baby, leading to a generic odd couple
pairing with hijinks and gags piling on top of each other, collapsing
under its own weight. Instead we are treated to a pretty sentimental
and touching portrait of two women learning to grow and evolve with
help from the other, a person, in both regards, that they never would
have thought could teach them anything. Even the pregnancy aspect takes
a ton of twists and turns never becoming the straight shot gimmick just
bringing everyone together. The surrogate mother here must make some
tough decisions as she continues along on her journey, lending a side
to the tale that actually brings it to a level of intrigue that no
Lorne Michaels film has done in recent memory.

I don't want to ruin the plot points of Angie Ostrowiski's pregnancy,
but let's just say it isn't cut and dry. Her motives aren't genuine,
something that is obvious from the start, just not quite in the way you
anticipate. There are surprises for her and secrets hidden from the
other characters as she wrestles within herself. A "white-trash" loser,
attached to a man that believes waiting on the phone to be the 132.7
caller is a job, Angie learns a lot while with mom-to-be Kate Holbrook.
Kate, being the professional VP of an organic food market, is a very
detail orientated woman who is by the books and unafraid to tell others
what they should do. It is an oil and water connection, butlike all
good relationships of this kindbreeds some real funny and touching
moments. Who thought watching Karaoke on the Playstation could be so
much fun? Sure many instances feel like skits written separately and
plugged in later, (the clubbing while pregnant, the press conference
ambush, and the surrogate therapy sessionprobably the funniest scene
without question), but they are surprisingly strung together to make a
pretty coherent whole.

The other thing that the trailer hides is the inclusion of two great
male roles. Did anyone know that Greg Kinnear and Steve Martin were in
this thing? I for one was completely surprised by both, almost
chuckling that they would have a small cameo until I realized that both
were key roles to the whole. In the best turn of the film, Steve Martin
is crazy, hippie genius. His earthy style of living, complete with long
ponytail and soft speech, even when angered, is classic, as is
everything uttered from his mouth. He is so good that I would be
thrilled to have him offer me 5 uninterrupted minutes of staring into
his eyes as a reward for a job well done. For Kinnear's part, he plays
the usual love interest that is commonplace in films of this ilk. It's
not flashy and it's not very original, but Greg is a stalwart and pulls
off the good guy persona, even including a little bit of physical humor
at the end.

Overall, though, this film is pretty standard fare. It goes into very
broad comedy at times and very sappy/overly-sentimental drivel at
others. There are some good jokes sprinkled throughout and for the most
part keep it fun for the duration. Definitely feeling longer than it
is, I never quite felt bored and I did begin to get invested in the
story to see how it all would turn out. A lot of that can be credited
to the chemistry between Tina Fey and Amy Pohler as Kate and Angie
respectively. Both these women do a great job with their roles,
fleshing out the psychotic relationship to perfection. One of the
successful dynamics is how Fey becomes a mother figure to her
surrogate. Even going so far as having temper tantrums and rubber-faced
reactions, Pohler is a child.

It's also nice to see some fun moments from the supporting cast, but
again nothing really sticks out to vault anything into must see
territory. Sigourney Weaver is actually kinda scary in a very weird
role; Romany Malco has plenty of great one-liners and facial
expressions; and John Hodgeman is a bit odd in a small bit, with laughs
coming more from the recognition of his Mac commercials than anything
he does in the film. In the end, while nothing over-achieves, it all
adds up to a pretty solid comedy worth a view. Is it necessary to see
on the big screen? Probably not, but if you were worried that it might
be a train-wreck, just know that it never takes any chances to risk
derailing, and that's not a bad thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Due to my love of Tina Fey I went out of my way to see this film at the
cinema; on first release it was only shown at 11-30 in the morning and
I dragged my mum to watch in an empty theatre. All I can say is that it
was worth the effort.

The two leads bounce off of one another with brilliant comic timing,
and both manage to make their flawed characters utterly likable. Yes,
the plot is predictable, and no, there is no joke that made me fall out
of my seat. However, it did deliver on many levels. The comedy was
sharp and although the ending was a little contrived it did manage to
put a goofy smile on the face of a cynical teenager, IE moi. 'Baby
Mama' is perfect chick fare, and I am disappointed in the cinemas who
have cleared all their screens in preparation for the release of 'The
Dark Knight'.

Poehler and Fey sparkled and were supported by an excellent cast; Steve
Martin was odd, providing some light comedy, but it was Sigourney
Weaver and Greg Kinnear (back on form and looking less haggard) whom i
felt really carried the film in the absence of the two leads.

Baby Mama was refreshing and a great indication that we should see more
of these two girls on the big screen.

4/5 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
Tina Fey and Amy Poehler prove that buddy comedies need not be the
exclusive domain of naughty boys.

"Baby Mama" is no comic masterpiece, but it's at least as good as any
number of formulaic comedies churned out by Hollywood and much better
than many others. Fey is the uptight career woman who hears her
biological clock ticking at 37 and wants to have a baby before it's too
late. Poehler is the low-class, free-wheeling blonde who agrees to be
her surrogate mother for a hefty fee. The usual odd-couple conflicts
ensue, maternal instincts kick in, and in traditional sitcom style,
everyone gets what they want in the end.

The movie is mostly an excuse to give Fey and Poehler the chance to
riff off of one another, and they do it well. Poehler especially
displays the ability to carry a movie, something most SNL veterans
aren't able to do. She's funny, but she's also able to embody an actual
character rather than simply do skit-T.V. schtick. Just watch her
horrified face the first time she tastes water; or the hilarious scene
when Fey wrestles her into the shower and begins to scrub the hair dye
off of her head in a scene that spoofs "Silkwood." 

Also starring Greg Kinnear as a smoothie store owner, and a whacked out
Steve Martin as Fey's new age boss.

Grade: A-
<|_=00=_|>
Saturday Night Live, whether or not you consider it still funny, is
going through a great period. Ratings are fairly high coming off of the
writers' strike. The show is riding the Democratic nomination race wave
pretty well, featuring either Clinton, Obama, or both in at least one
sketch per episode. Due to their recent successes, it makes sense that
SNL's comedians want to branch out into movies like they successfully
did in the 90s with Wayne's World. Baby Mama serves as one of these
movies, featuring Tina Fey and Amy Poehler at the helm and at least two
more members from the SNL team in the background, namely Will Forte and
Fred Armisen. Steve Martin, a frequent SNL host, can also be found in
this movie. After reading the character list, it's clear where the SNL
comparisons and references come from.

Considering its origins and its genre abroad, I went into the theater
with relatively low expectations. At most, I hoped for a sort of
feel-good comedy that had a lot of laugh scenes that made up for some
corny drama scenes. I got the laugh scenes, but surprisingly, the drama
scenes weren't very corny. Baby Mama, as can be determined from the
title, deals with Kate Holbrook (Tina Fey's character), a powerful
businesswoman and executive in an organic foods company and her burning
desire to have a baby and build a family, regardless of the
difficulties. Unlike most comedies, this is actually a surprisingly
serious topic, which enhances the dramatic parts of the plot quite a
bit. You can actually take the characters and the story line quite
seriously. Actually, Kate's character is almost entirely serious, aside
from the occasional jokes on how uptight and socially inept she can be.
Most of the laughs come from Angie Ostrowiski (Amy Poehler's
character), a not exactly high-class girl working for Chaffee
Bicknell's (played by Sigourney Weaver) surrogacy agency that offers to
be Kate's surrogate after Kate attempts and fails to get pregnant
multiple times. As can be expected from Poehler, Angie is completely
and totally ridiculous. Poehler is actually extremely good in this
role, since she manages to play a "white trash" stereotypical character
without coming off as corny, or at least most of the time.

Don't get me wrong; there are times when you can't help but cringe. A
small portion of the humor is just far too corny, and can't make you
laugh no matter how ready you are to laugh. However, anyone who watches
Saturday Night Live is already used to this, since everyone knows that
not every SNL skit is funny. Not by a long shot. However, the entire
movie is irresistibly cute. The character development is fantastic, and
Poehler and Fey working together really carries the entire movie. In
fact, the men in the story are almost entirely irrelevant. Carl (played
by Dax Shepard), Angie's low-class, tactless boyfriend, could have been
much funnier than he actually is. Rob (played by Greg Kinnear),
although a nice character and a nice addition, really only serves as an
attractive male (and yes, he is very attractive in this movie) and
someone to move the story along a little bit. Barry (played by Steve
Martin), the president of the organic food company Kate works for, is
an absolutely insane hippie that provides a lot of humor to the parts
of the movie where Kate is at work. Five minutes of uninterrupted eye
contact, anyone? (You'll get it when you watch the movie.)

At the end of the movie, you do really feel for the characters, or at
least Angie and Kate. The other characters are sort of background even
at the end, but they're still necessary, since there would be no offset
to the Fey-Poehler humor that can just be taken in small doses to avoid
becoming too corny to be enjoyable. I did find myself screaming on the
inside a little at the end, because there's a gigantic time gap that
left a lot of questions unanswered and irritated me quite a lot, but in
reality, in order to fill out the entire story, this would either have
to be a 3 hour movie, or there would have to be a sequel. This isn't
the kind of movie to have a sequel, so I can see why they did it. I
just think that some of the time that they wasted on Carl could have
been used to develop that a little more.

Overall, Baby Mama is cute, and that's all I can see it ever trying
for. It also seems to me to test the waters a little bit for a Fey and
Poehler match-up that, when smoothed out a little around the edges,
will be a very strong comedy duo. I did enjoy this film very much, and
I would highly recommend it to someone who watches SNL frequently and
likes Poehler's style of humor, or someone who just wants to go to the
movies to have fun and feel good. It's certainly worth it. However,
what I find more significant at the moment is my excitement for films
in the future that will feature Fey and Poehler, and I truly hope that
the film industry doesn't miss out on this potentially hilarious team.
I'll be eagerly awaiting the day when I see them working together again
- this is a first time, and it can only get better from here.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a smattering of smart laughs in this 2008 comedy, but
first-time director Michael McCullers really plods his own
coincidence-driven script along with little sense of style or dramatic
resonance. At times, it feels no better than a formulaic romantic
comedy from the 1960's usually starring small-screen celebrities trying
to break into the big time. Sure enough, this time, we are offered Tina
Fey (currently of NBC's "30 Rock") and Amy Poehler, former "Saturday
Night Live" Weekend Update co-anchors and definitely the cream of the
current funny lady crop. The problem is that McCullers, a one-time SNL
staff writer who also co-wrote the Austin Powers movies with Mike
Myers, doesn't elevate the screenplay much beyond the limited
dimensions of an extended comedy sketch. That puts most of the pressure
on the two women to make this farce work as a distaff version of "The
Odd Couple" with a pregnancy angle, and they often - you should pardon
the expression - deliver.

Ideally cast with her smart, bespectacled looks, Fey plays 37-year-old
Kate Holbrook, single and professionally successful as the VP of an
upscale organic supermarket chain much like Whole Foods. She hears her
biological clock ticking and is taking every step possible to have a
baby. Her last straw is to pay an agency $100,000 to find a surrogate.
Naturally, her polar opposite shows up as the ideal candidate - a
junk-food-eating, Red Bull-swilling piece of white trash named Angie
Ostrowski who comes with her money-drubbing boyfriend Carl. Kate is so
desperate she is practically begging Angie to carry her egg, so Angie
willingly accepts. Somehow, the women end up living together during the
pregnancy and inevitably get on each other's nerves, more Angie on
Kate's nerves since a few revelations threaten to upend the deal.
Convenience appears to trump logic in tying up the plot's loose ends,
of which there are many. However, McCullers' alternately sauntering and
piercing Judd Apatow-like approach helps compensate for the bigger
lapses.

A game cast also helps. Although fairly limited as an actress, Fey is
sharp and likable as the often dour Kate and has the ability to bring
the implausibility of her character's situation into more human focus.
Even though she is entirely too old for her role, Poehler is a more
natural comic presence as Angie, terrifically manic but surprisingly
poignant during key moments. It's obvious their joint casting has more
to do with their proved rapport than dramatic credibility. In a turn
worthy of Jeff Foxworthy, Dax Shepard credibly makes Carl a mercenary
sheep. Romany Malco (memorable as Andy's horned-up co-worker in "The
40-Year-Old Virgin") is given little to do as the streetwise doorman,
the same fate of Maura Tierney bland as Kate's supportive sister. Greg
Kinnear must be getting awfully tired playing the same type of romantic
foil over and over again, but he does do it well even though his scenes
also seem strangely truncated. Two veterans threaten to steal the
picture in acts of petty larceny - a pony-tailed Steve Martin very
funny as Kate's Zen-seeking boss whose idea of a reward is allowing her
to stare at him for five minutes, and Sigourney Weaver as the overtly
self-satisfied and all-too-fertile head of the agency. SNL regulars
Will Forte and Fred Armisen show up in cameos. A fitfully funny farce.
<|_=00=_|>
The early signs weren't good for Baby Mama. I saw a rather flat,
unfunny trailer and then the movie proceeded to make a decent enough
profit while garnering reviews that were, for the most part, kindly
pegging the movie as enjoyable but nothing special.

I was surprised, after finally viewing the film, to find that it's
actually a hell of a lot funnier than many other movies that have
received much more positive press.

Tina Fey stars as Kate, a very successful and very single businesswoman
who yearns to have a baby but finds out that she can't. After exploring
her options, Kate visits a surrogacy agency (headed up by Sigourney
Weaver in a small, but fun, role) and eventually ends up with Angie
(Amy Poehler) as the surrogate mother to the child she desperately
wants. Angie is Kate's "baby mama", hence the title. The two women are
very different in many ways and this leads to frequent clashes and
insults being thrown around. But maybe, just maybe, they can help each
other see things from a slightly different angle. You think? From an
amusing opening sequence, Baby Mama does a lot of things right. It hits
it's stride after setting up the main premise and doesn't ever really
run out of steam until the last 10 minutes or so when the
predictability of the whole thing comes to a stuttering, predictable
climax. It's got no surprises to it but what it does have is: 

a) A great cast in Fey, Poehler, Weaver, Greg Kinnear, Steve Martin
(hilarious as a new-age, eco-friendly boss), Dax Shepard (not always
great but playing white trash so well here and getting many of the
funniest lines), Romany Malco and Maura Tierney. There's even a
hilarious, though far too fleeting, appearance by Will Forte.

b) some sharp zingers in the script, with at least one every few
minutes that will make you laugh out loud. Out of context, they may not
seem that amusing but lines such as "can I just spray a little PAM down
there right before the baby comes out?" and the delivery of "what if it
had been poop?" are not up there with the best comedy lines ever but
each exchange and display of ignorance adds up until things snowball to
become constantly chucklesome.

c) Michael McCullers, who also wrote the script, directing with a nice,
light touch that manages to avoid the recent trend of gross-out gags
(although, hey, I am not one to maintain a stony silence in the face of
any decent toilet humour) and lets everyone have enough decent screen
time for their characters without letting anything run on too long.

In short, it's a comedy with characters that you enjoy watching and
plenty of laughs throughout even if there are no surprises. Which makes
it an entirely successful, if also entirely safe, comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
"Baby Mama" is Tina Fey's first lead film role. It's well-deserved
after her work on "Mean Girls" and "30 Rock", and she, along with
co-star and former SNL cast mate Amy Poehler, do a really nice job of
anchoring this one. Fey plays Kate Holbrook, a successful businesswoman
who also happens to be a struggling single one. At 37, Kate decides
it's time to try and have a child on her own, but her plans are smashed
when she finds out there is only a small chance that she can actually
become pregnant. With no other option, Kate finds an unlikely surrogate
in Angie (Amy Poehler), a trashy and low-rent girl who could really use
the money. After learning that Angie is pregnant, Kate begins
baby-prepping. Only what she doesn't expect is the arrival of a
pregnant Angie at her door with no place to go.

Director and screenwriter Michael McCullers suggests to us early that
"Baby Mama" is going to be a tired trip down formula-lane. Kate is an
order-nut, Angie is a messy free-spirit, put them together and you have
the most predictable storyline ever told. Thankfully enough, McCullers
proves clever in finding some fresh laughs here, whether they be from
the scary and awkward process of connecting your life with a complete
stranger or in the "trivialized" world of modern pregnancy where
baby-proofing, the fears of bad eating habits and chemicals in
house-hold products, and research books and videos have become
exaggerated to the point of causing constant anxiety. The movie is
actually damn funny and when it's not it's usually really lovable and
it's nice to see a comedy that relies more on wit than on the next
crude gag for a change.

Fey and Poehler are also a fantastic match. Fey plays self-deprecating
and un-hip better than any actress out there and Poehler is a loonier
and more zany comedic actress, and their previous work experience on
SNL really shows here. Like some of the better buddy comedies of the
past, they establish a chemistry that is as friendly and amusing as it
is rocky. Having Greg Kinnear play Fey's love interest and Dax Shepherd
play Poehler's idiot boyfriend is also perfect casting, as I had just
as much fun watching these two comedic actresses toss around with them
as I did with each other. And having two veteran and respected actors
in your movie helps too. Sigourney Weaver as an older woman whose still
as fertile as ever, and Steve Martin as Fey's hippie, vegan boss are
both absolutely hilarious.

"Baby Mama" begins with an "oh no" but quickly settles into something
witty and lovable. The script is smart and funny and the cast couldn't
be better, especially Fey and Poehler, who seem very comfortable
playing off one another. This movie is a good start to two promising
careers, and with any luck, two careers that will hopefully cross paths
again in another movie someday.
<|_=00=_|>
Baby Mama has a number of cute moments rolled into what is ultimately a
very unfocused, messy movie. The plot is very simple, Kate (Fey) is a
career woman who desperately wants to have a baby. She finds that
getting pregnant the usual way is nearly impossible, so she seeks out a
surrogate, Angie (Poehler) through an agency. The movie basically
follows the predictable, if still funny, "odd couple" formula.

Fey is very winning, and Poehler is a skilled comedian. Both do an
excellent job of taking an average script and rising above it.
Sigourney Weaver is amusing in a smaller part, Steve Martin also has
some funny moments. Maura Tierney, Holland Taylor and Greg Kinnear are
all given very little to do, and are wasted in their roles.

In short, this is a movie that was nice to rent, but left me wanting
something more. The ending is kind of ridiculous, and feels out of
place given the tone of the rest of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a surprisingly funny comedy given the premise. Tina Fey and
Amy Poehler worked well together in the leads, as Fey is a
career-driven woman who finally decides she wants a baby;unfortunately,
her doctor informs her that her uterus isn't the right shape for it.
After exploring other options (including adoption), she decides to go
with the surrogate route, and Amy Poehler agrees. Unfortunately, she is
a white-trash loser (with equally bad common law husband Dax Sheppard
aboard), and they are more interested in scamming her. Surprises
abound. Greg Kinnear and Steve Martin offer surprisingly good
supporting roles in this good comedy that I recommend. Even the cover
box is funny! Stay with it to the ending credits. I think Amy Poehler's
performance is the main highlight.

** 1/2 out of ****
