
I felt self conscious and embarrassed somehow. Is this the model woman
we should be inspired by? Oh my God! She's like a bad replica of a
mediocre man. She abandons her husband and he's the one, quite rightly,
who feels betrayed. She uses James Franco and then throws him away.
Keeps Richard Jenkins at arms length until she discovers he has
something that may be useful to her and then, Javier Bardem...She
shouts at him I don't have to love you to love myself. What? She reeks
of an awful case of selfishness but as she is played by Julia Roberts
the whole thing becomes rather confusing. Is she a modern heroine? Oh
God, I hope that wasn't the intention. I felt as far away from her even
further away from the character she played in "My Best Friend's
Wedding" Remember that one? In that one she becomes a criminal, really,
yes, a criminal, to ruin her friend's wedding. Oblivious to the fact
that's he's clearly happy with Cameron Diaz. No, she's only worried
about herself. I'm giving "Eat Pray Love" a 3 and not a 1 because some
landscapes, geographic as well as culinary are, quite simply, breath
taking. Also Javier Bardem is worth the price of the very expensive
ticket.
<|_=00=_|>
I love travelogues and I'm a fan of Julia Roberts but, what happened
here? I'm not sure in what period, time wise, it this set. The only
turmoil seems to be in this very selfish forty-something. What about
the rest of the world? She goes for a sort of journey of discovery in a
world that doesn't really exist. Did I miss something? No wars, no
economic crisis, no nothing, only the intimate qualm of a woman who I,
personally, cannot feel represented by. I grant you I'm from another
generation but, please! What is this. I loved the food and Javier
Bardem and it is in fact the Bardem episode that brings some kind of
recognizable something to the proceedings. So, let me recapitulate and
ask you if we've seen the same movie...A woman facing an existential
crisis and moves out from her marital abode without even having a
discussion about it with her husband - a scrumptious Billy Crudup -
then she has an affair with James Franco - who wouldn't, right? - but
the Franco in this movie is just a plain reflection of the Franco from
"Milk" just to name one title. The Naples presented here seems out of
the mind of someone who's never been to Naples. I don't know what to
say. I'm a bit puzzled and, I should confess, a bit annoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the book. I thought Julia Roberts as Liz was fantastic casting.
The trailer looked awesome. I smiled every time I saw it. Turns out, I
loved everything about this movie except the movie. 

Long story short, it's all of the arc of the book, without any of the
passion. While never horrible, this film simply made me feel nothing. 

I found the book soulful, moving, even transformative at times. The
greatest emotion I felt from the film was hunger (for Italian pizza),
thirst (for Italian wine), and an occasional dizziness due to director
Ryan Murphy's apparent recent discovery of how to "pan." It was
laughable camera-work throughout the first 45 minutes, and occasionally
throughout. 

The first 1/2 hour of the film was almost unbearably bad, even though
the first section of the book was amongst my favorites. Perhaps someone
who did not read the book could enjoy this movie, but I somehow doubt
it. One time Liz made a joke, that was a nice break from the feeling of
being in a lukewarm bathtub for 2 1/2 hours. Not unpleasant, just meh. 

Instead of finding Liz intelligent and thoughtful, she seemed selfish,
boring, and obsessed with men. Instead of finding spirituality, she
seemed vapid. When the character becomes shallow, a film centered
around that character becomes a throw away. Maybe I'll just watch the
trailer again.
<|_=00=_|>
Never read the book and thanks to this well-produced wretched film
never will. The IMDb synopsis is inaccurate... you get no sense this
broad is trying to have a kid or that her marriage has been failing.
She one day decides she doesn't want it anymore and, props to the
acting of Crudup, the husband has no reason to know why. Her subsequent
lover is left with the same "huh?" moment. It's as if she needs to
punish anyone who treats her well.

Only good looking men fall in love with Liz, and everyone admires her.
She dumps her lovers and husband and the only friend that will tell her
what she needs to hear, in the belief that "balance" lies so far
outside herself that she has to travel the world (on a very tight
schedule) to seek enlightenment. How she pays for it is never hinted
at. And to have this bone-thin creature lecture another bone-thin
creature on the need to "just enjoy eating, we can always buy a bigger
pair of jeans" is insulting AND laughable. That the scene is followed
by two bone-thin actresses faking attempts to "squeeze into" jeans is
just insulting.

And the punch line? The woman who has wasted 2.5 hours of your life
whining that everyone around her says she needs a man finally finds
"balance"... by finding a man. And FYI EVERY man in this film is
sensitive and caring. I have to say that the direction and very good
supportive acting presents an effective image of all sorts of energetic
life going on around Liz (and inviting her to be part of it) while she
sits whining to herself in voice-over. But the unreality of EVERYONE
LOVING HER is just a bit lame.

Fiction? Not much.

Oh, and why did I spend money to see this? A friend convinced me it
would be great, and she is such a good friend and enjoyed it so much I
will never tell her exactly how much I despised it. See? For people you
care about sometimes you hold yourself back.

FYI Richard Jenkins is the only person Julia Roberts' Liz really
connects to... and even that is ruined by a last-minute "Hollywood"
moment. No spoiler here, you'll see it lumbering toward you like an
elephant in the desert.
<|_=00=_|>
When I read the book last year, I had just lost my job, was looking for
a new one and eating everything that was bad for me, so I enjoyed Liz's
misery and newfound joys. But now that I'm content, in this new phase
of life, I find myself annoyed by people who create their own drama and
then whine about it. So I would not have enjoyed the book if I were to
read it now. Although everyone does a good job in this film, and the
scenery is breathtaking -- now I want to go to Rome!!!-- I really
couldn't stand Liz. She has everything but whines about how "I don't
even know how to be HERE!" I meet people in my new job who are fighting
cancer every day -- they deserve the opportunity to whine (and few do,
I might add). But pretty people who have everything and think they
deserve more just tick me off. And it was a long painful sit. I do love
the men in this movie -- each one of them is so good. And Julia Roberts
does what she can with this selfish character. I just don't want to
spend any more time with spoiled Liz. The time I spent watching her
only ticked me off. I cannot recommend it, unless you're self centered,
indulged and rich -- this could be your inspiration. Phoo!
<|_=00=_|>
I did read the book but, I had hoped that this was going to be like
"The Bridges Of Madison County". The film so much better than the book
thanks to Meryl Streep's Francesca, a woman I could follow and learn
from in every way. Here, my hero, Julia Roberts is as static as the
page that originated her character. I couldn't and wouldn't get
interested in her. Women, no matter how independent, remain nurturers
by nature. I was desolate. I sided with her husband, Billy Crudup,
totally. And what about the younger guy, James Franco, she takes
instead of giving and she also takes from Richard Jenkins and Javier
Bardem in Bali. It is in fact in Bali where I detected a glimpse of
real emotion an emotion provoked by somebody else's feelings. I could
see a film about that woman. Julia feels detached, as if she was just
going through the motions. I'm sorry critics and public ganged up
against her for her work in "Mery Reilly" An actress of Julia's talent
and beauty could have contributed a sensational gallery of different
women. Instead she seems stacked in this shrill, angry lady with very
little to say.
<|_=00=_|>
But this is easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen. However,
there are some (very small) silver linings.

For instance, with Julia Roberts, Richard Jenkins, Billy Crudup, James
Franco, and Javier Bardem, I had high expectations. I award one half
star for each actor, and round up out of kindness.

But then... the movie started, and the most agonizing 2+ hours of my
life ensued.

First, some background information. I went to see Eat Pray Love for my
dear mother and free popcorn. She asked me earlier today, and I, being
the loving son, agreed to accompany her.

Within ten minutes I had realized what a disastrous mistake I had made.
I am an empathetic person, and I had no idea it was possible for a film
to give me have no feelings whatsoever for protagonist.

That is not true, at times I wanted her to be hit by a train. I have
never left a movie that I had paid for, but eventually my mother and I
were plotting ways to escape. We settled on screaming "Mouse!" or
"Rodent!" or "Fire!" but decided it was not worth the social
awkwardness.

Instead we sat through, as I said, the most agonizing 2+ hours of film,
ever. A summary ensues...

Whine-Whine-Divorce-Whine-Cry-Travel-Whine-Eat-Whine-Feminist
Bullshit-Whine-Elevate Importance-Whine-Whine-Travel-Whine-Attempt
Meditation-Whine-Get Better at Meditation with help of
Hippie-Whine-Elevate Importance to Unknown
Levels-Whine-Whine-Travel-Whine-Whine-"Fall in Love" I think that is
pretty much it. Do not see this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Two moments have stayed with me, one in particular: Javier Bardem
crying as he says goodbye to his 19 year old son. The moment provokes a
reaction on Julia Roberts's character that makes her totally human. The
moment comes on the last third of the film so I thought it was a bit
too late to start my relationship with her. The other moment happens at
the beginning after she decides to walk away from her marriage and
realizes she has broken her husband's heart. Terrific Billy Crudup
fighting back tears as the elevator door closes. I love Julia Roberts
but I can't quite buy her "philosophical face" 42 years of age in the
new millennium is far too young for that kind of crisis, specially when
the crisis is provoked by something missing in her. So, okay, a journey
of discovery, but then...? The discovery is that she knew it all along.
What next. I must say the guys in the movie get the prize, third price
really. The first price goes to the location, second price to the food
- goodness, the food! - and third to the guys. Bardem fantastic,
Richard Jenkins superb - Billy Crudup surprisingly real, James Franco
also great and Luca Argentero another plus.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've kept up with my reviews (lets pretend you have), you are
going to find that the genre I touch most seldom is the romantic
comedy. They are by nature a contagious quagmire of failed puns, roads
repaved with familiar plots, and their stars have signed with the
devil. Enter Julia Roberts, queen of the romcom. No doubt a talented
actress, if not the most famous of her generation, Julia has played a
big role in cashing in on the average woman's dream.

In her latest effort Julia plays Liz Gilbert in the autobiographical
book turned movie Eat Pray Love. Liz is a writer visiting Bali in
search of a wise/toothless medicine man. He reads the palm of her hand
and she takes everything to gospel. Leaving behind husband Stephen
(Billy Crudup), Liz seeks out new adventure in the form of exotic
cuisine, Eastern religion, and male suitors.

Eat Pray Love is directed by Ryan Murphy. Murphy is best known as the
creator of Glee, last year's breakout TV show about misfits who triumph
through song. With his name in the mix people are going to be
disappointed that Julia and friends don't break out into song and
dance. Even if you consider that Murphy could have interests outside of
musicals, you'd expect some sassy dialog exchanges like those seen on
the show between the characters Will Schuester and Sue Sylvester. Hate
to disappoint you but that's not going to happen either.

Julia Roberts is a darling despite the degrading material and I'm sure
the draw of her chowing down will appeal to the target demographic
until they realize that phase is left behind once Liz leaves Italy. If
this were the story of a woman looking for the best things in life, I
wouldn't take as much issue as I do. See, that's how one half of the
population would view the plot. I see it more along the lines of a
typical entry in the long catalog of films where the female lead has no
idea what she's looking for in her life so she does whatever is
irrational and fun because that's how movie magic works. Liz throws out
a man who has given the viewer no reason for dismissal, but this is
standard procedure in a chick flick because here woman can do anything
and their lives will always improve. I've encountered far too many
girls who take these plots to heart and implement them in the real
world, leaving a trail of confused men in their wake. I'm a guy, and
I'm not dumb enough to think that all the explosions I see in the films
designed for my gender need to be realized at home.

What Eat Pray Love has going for it is a borderline competency that
lifts it slightly above film festival rejects. Actually the presence of
A-list talent and obvious travel expenses add more to the production
value than any cinematic technique on display. Many scenes are littered
with mishandled lights, resulting in a glaucoma simulation that gave me
a headache. It's even a tossup as to whether or not to anoint the audio
as clear since half of Javier Bardem's dialog would be read as
inaudible should one rent the Blu-ray down the road and turn on
subtitles. Speaking of Bardem, his character's late appearance goes
against every screen writing rule. In fact, it felt like I was two
hours into Eat Pray Love before I started to question whether or not I
had seen him in the TV spots. 

There is so little of consequence taking place that I don't understand
why this is a movie. Plenty of books have plots that don't equate into
a two-hour film and many of those actually have tension. Liz's only
conflict is from her own sociopath concepts. She's established early on
as a poor playwright, highly gullible, and dare I say spoiled. These
are not desirable traits. It's amazing how easily everyone accepts Liz.
Italy, India, and Indonesia extend nothing but open arms and everyone
who she turns to for advise is essentially the same character with the
one exception being Richard from Texas (Richard Jenkins)the sole
character that doesn't seem to exist for Liz's personal amusement. I
haven't seen such a patronizing, boring, alleged comedy in years. Eat
Pray Love is a marathon that will surely test any burgeoning
relationship and possibly cause a divorce. Girls, if your male friend
can stomach this you've either found an idiot or a liar. Pray for
mercy.
<|_=00=_|>
The only way to make a movie with an unlikeable, selfish, self-absorbed
protagonist worse is to make it WAY too long. That is what we have
here, folks. This movie is a monument to both feminist narcissism and
boredom. Robert's character whines and complains about a life that most
people would love to trade places with. The direction was surprisingly
sub-par, as was the acting. Overweight lonely secretaries that have
read the book MAY make it through to the end, but everyone else will
either be in deep REM or left the theater. Nice scenery for a bicycle
ride does not a great movie make. Not kidding, the storyline here is so
bad that it makes "Showgirls" look like "L.A. Confidential." This is
not even worth a Redbox buck.
