
The story could have been very dramatic and deeply touching, as it is a
true story of both the internal conflicts of a man and the deep love of
a woman to her partner. Unfortunately the meticulous attention to image
rather than screenplay (to me) resulted in a quite cold and un-
engaging movie, where beautiful costumes, interiors and landscapes are
the only highlights. I found that even the acting of the brilliant
young Eddie Redmayne was not that good, as his constant smiles and shy
blinking eyes after a while seem to be the only stratagem he has to
portray such a complex character (and after the first dozen of them I
couldn't stand it anymore). A more sophisticated psychological portrait
of the main character and a more dramatic rendition of his/her troubled
soul would have given more solidity to a movie which seems too
superficial.
<|_=00=_|>
The new cinema year has got off to a robust start with the new movie
from Tom Hooper ("The King's Speech", "Les Misérables"). 

We have seen many depictions of physical torture on the screen over the
years, from the interminable teen-slasher pics, through 'that chair
scene' in "Casino Royale" to the stylized presentations of Quentin
Tarantino and Martin Scorsese in films like "Reservoir Dogs" and
"Casino". "The Danish Girl" is also in its way a film about torture,
but more akin to the mental torture seen in films like "Buried" or
"Flightpath". What must it be like to be trapped with a sexual
orientation that you feel is not your own? To possess physical body
parts you don't believe you should have? And all in a time (the 1920's)
when an exposed ankle was considered slightly daring.

Based on a true story, Oscar-winner Eddie Redmayne ("The Theory of
Everything") and Alicia Vikander ("Ex Machina") play a bohemian married
couple Einar and Gerda Wegener, apparently happily married and trying
for a child in 1920's Copenhagen. Einar is a renowned landscape artist
with his wife a struggling portrait artist living in his shadow. After
taking part in a cross-dressing modelling session, strong feelings are
awakened in Einar. As a bit of a 'game' Gerda encourages him to explore
the character of his alter-ego "Lili" further: a big mistake, as Einar
is swept into a spiral of confusion and self-doubt.

Eddie Redmayne is surely up for another Oscar-nomination for his brave
performance as Einar/Lili, using his expressive eyes to great effect
and delivering a truly heart-rending performance. With all this said
however, I never quite believed I was watching the character of Lili
but more Redmayne acting the character. Perhaps this is unfair, as
Einar/Lili is such a bizarrely multi-dimensional person no one could
perhaps have played him/her to my satisfaction. But I suspect
(particularly as Redmayne won last year) this won't bring Redmayne the
Oscar double. 

Far more impressive for me was the delicious and delightful Alicia
Vikander, once more turning in a fantastic performance as the
increasingly desperate (both psychologically and sexually) Gerda. With
Rooney Mara, Vikander must be one of the brightest actress talents in
today's cinema. 

Also turning in a strong performance, in what is a very limited cast
list, is Matthias Schoenaerts ("Far from the Madding Crowd") as a
Parisian art dealer with a link to Einar's past. The omni-present
(sorry, that should read "hard-working") Ben Whishaw turns up again as
a party guest with an unhealthy interest in Lili and Sebastian Koch
(most recently seen in series 5 of "Homeland") plays Dr Warnekros who
is a pioneer in the new and risky business of sexual reassignment
surgery.

Another star of the film is the luscious Danish capital, filmed in
vibrant colours, as if from the artists' palettes, by Danny Cohen, a
Hooper favourite. Also a big surprise to me was the gloriously
photographed Danish countryside, seen at the end of the film, with
mountains and seascapes I never knew existed.

Another Hooper alumni, Alexandre Desplat, supplies the soupy but very
fitting score.

While the film features a compelling story and much impressive acting,
I never personally felt as connected to the story as I was to "The
King's Speech". This isn't helped by a rather stagy script by Lucinda
Coxon that feels lightweight at times. Perhaps its because we are in
Oscar- season but, to me, it all felt a tad pretentious and (no pun
intended) could have done with a few snips in places to reduce the
running time by 15 minutes or so. That being said, and as an
alternative view, I should point out that my wife was in tears for a
good proportion of the film and disagrees vehemently with my views. I
say "my wife", but since watching the film she's started wearing braces
and smoking cigars  so I'm rather confused as to WHAT exactly is going
on. :-)

(For the graphical version of this review, see bob-the-movie-man.com.
Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly found this movie very touching and delicate. It is delicate
in the way it treats difficult subjects as sexuality and the discovery
of one's identity in an hostile period. The fact that it is a true
story makes the whole movie even more involving.

I don't think the film is perfect - but the acting, cinematography, the
screenplay are absolutely amazing. I especially loved the middle part -
where all the characters try to find a way out of the problem and when
for the first time they seem to be facing a fracture between them.

I thought it had a great power on people even though it doesn't seem to
have had the effect I was expecting (at least during the premiere in
Venice).

Eddie Redmayne hasn't had enough of his Oscar and I wish him all the
best for 2016!
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Hooper's 'The Danish Girl' is a brave story, about brave people, in
a time where their bravery must've been counted as mental illness.
Hooper chooses the correct actors to portray the parts & directs the
film with dignity. However, The Writing doesn't always engage & is
flawed in places.

'The Danish Girl' is A fictitious love story inspired by the lives of
Danish artists Lili Elbe and Gerda Wegener. Lili and Gerda's marriage
and work evolve as they navigate Lili's groundbreaking journey as a
transgender pioneer.

'The Danish Girl' salutes the courageous lives of Lili Elbe & Gerda
Wegener. Both of whom who died too early, had the courage to be
themselves, especially Lilli, who chose to express rather than being
repressed. And Gerda, a women who had to face the reality, was a women
who respected her husband's truth. That was True Romance!

But, 'The Danish Girl' isn't as tightly Written it should have been.
Lucinda Coxon's Screenplay, which is based on the 2000 novel of the
same name by David Ebershoff, is powerful, but in doses. The first-hour
works wonders, but the second-hour slows down & the flaws in the
Writing show up. The final-act, to put it bluntly, isn't half as
emotionally moving as it deserved to be. In short, the Writing lets
'The Danish Girl' down, at some parts.

Tom Hooper's Direction is dignified. He has handled some of the most
dramatic scenes, with great conviction. Danny Cohen's Cinematography is
nicely done. Melanie Ann Oliver's Editing is perfectly sized. Art &
Costume Design are fabulous. Alexandre Desplat's Score is enchanting. A
Special Mention for the nearly done Make-Up.

Performance-Wise: Eddie Redmayne as Lili Elbe & Alicia Vikander as
Gerda Wegener, deliver brilliant performances. Eddie, fresh from his
Oscar-Win this year, strikes back with a yet another winning
performance, thats both, brave & heartbreaking. Vikander is splendid as
his wife, who conveys her pain, with concern & sensitivity. And the
on-screen chemistry between the two, is wonderful. Ben Whishaw & Amber
Heard are terrific in supporting roles.

On the whole, 'The Danish Girl' isn't as good as one expects it to be,
but its well-directed & very well-acted nonetheless!
<|_=00=_|>
Set in Copenhagen in the mid-1920s, this film tells the story of the
first person to undergo gender reassignment surgery, a story which does
not, sadly, have a happy ending. Einar Wegener, a Danish painter, has
been married to a fellow-artist, Gerda for six years. Gradually he
becomes obsessed with the idea of becoming a woman, a quest which leads
him to submit to untried medical procedures which eventually prove
fatal.

It does not take much imagination to appreciate how challenging it must
be to find oneself stuck in the 'wrong' body and impelled to rectify
this situation by resort to surgery. Perils loom on all sides - the
physical risks, the psychological anguish, the threats to personal
relationships, the fear of social ostracism or worse - and smooth
passage seems improbable. How much more so given the state of medical
and psychological knowledge in the 1920s and a less liberal moral
climate than prevails today. Surely such a prospect must make for rich
and vibrant drama. Yet, despite its dramatic potential, the Wegeners'
story is given such a flat treatment by Tom Hooper that the movie
verges on boring at times.

A bleak note is struck from the start and continued with little
respite. The mood is cold and gloomy, emphasised by the colourless,
sparely-furnished interiors (light-grey walls in their apartment, harsh
white wall tiles in the clinics and consulting rooms - only when Gerda
visits Paris do we see some gorgeous period interiors), the bare wintry
landscapes of Copenhagen, and the minor-key music. The tempo is
one-paced and the dialogue is often stilted and dreary. Can this really
be someone engaged in a momentous struggle with their identity and,
consequently, with their personal relationships and their position in
society? Indeed, when Einar first steps out into the world as Lili, she
seems barely noticed by those around her despite looking far from
convincing as a female.

Einar and Gerda never explore with each other in any sustained way what
is happening to him and its implications for their relationship. Partly
because of this we get little understanding of Einar's self-perception,
little sense of his insights into his condition. Similarly, we don't
encounter the desperation of someone in crisis except very late on when
Einar is battling with the immediate after-effects of his operations.
Mercifully, we are spared visual details of his exposure to the
surgeon's scalpel.

The lead characters are surprisingly one-dimensional and seem to be
narrowly self-obsessed. The emotional range is equally constrained for
while we witness neediness, longing and lust, there is no real passion,
no sense of warm affection or love between Gerda and her husband. Nor
do we see real anger displayed, despite there being much for the
characters to be angry about. Lili's quest for transformation seems to
bring no one any lasting pleasure.

The exaggerated and awkward manner that Eddie Redmayne brought to the
character of Stephen Hawking, and which worked brilliantly there, does
not really do so here. Instead it proves a distraction. Lili repeatedly
responds to male attention with little more than shy downward glances
and simpering expressions which become rather embarrassing to watch.
Perhaps only a more accomplished actor than Redmayne could carry off
this highly demanding role successfully. Alicia Vikander does much
better as Gerda but cannot shine so brightly in Redmayne's shadow.

There is clearly plenty of talent associated with this film and the
story of the Wegeners seems worth telling. But this movie fails to hit
the mark.

Viewed at Home (successor to The Cornerhouse), Manchester, UK,
03.01.16.
<|_=00=_|>
This film melted me like the touch of silk. Although I wasn't fully
convinced of the transformation of Einar Wegener, I am deeply touched
by the Eddie Redmayne's fragile beauty as a women(or should I say
Lily). He comprehends Einar's psychological conditions perfectly, and
every twist of his facial muscles or movements of his eyes demonstrate
the perfect empathy he has for his role. I don't care about logical
consistency of plots or the point of view as long as he is the center
of images, he flawlessly convinces me that Einar sincerely believe that
he is born to be a woman. And as long as his feelings are as burning
and heart-felt as reflected in my eyes, there's nothing to criticize
about whether his decisions are morally right or wrong.

It's spirit-shattering that Einar died in the arms of Gerda, and Gerda
did an extraordinary job in supporting her husband. I would give Alicia
Vikander a full score too, her performance reconstruct perfectly a
open-minded female artist that has unconditional love for her husband.
She forsook the obscure love she had for Hans, the right to be
protected and caressed as a wife, and everything women think they
rightfully deserves from their husbands. Einar said before he died:
"How would I ever deserve such love?"Seeing him pale like a vampire,
watching his hand sliding from her hand, it's hard to imagine the
heartbreak Gerda had. Would she blame herself for not forcing Einar to
the doctors instead of "indulging his hallucinations?" Would she blame
herself for letting her husband wear her silk pajamas and ballet dress
for her own artistic career? Would she miss the man that looks to her
eyes in the morning and whisper to her:"My life, my wife."? I drained
my tears for her anyway. Gerda is such a wonderful woman.

I also feel obliged to comment on the institutionalization at that
time. The idiot psychiatrist can't even figure out the difference
between schizophrenia and a healthy man. One of the psychiatrist even
proposed a lobotomy, and at the wrong spot. Lobotomy is supposed to
sever the connection between frontal lobe and the rest of the brain to
treat those who get major depression or anxiety disorder and don't
react to medical treatment, the technique it is abandoned in the modern
world for its inhumane side effects. Stupidity of the doctor reflects
their ossified believes about trans gender people and their lack of
professional knowledge, which explains how hard it was for Einar to
defend his faith and for Gerda to stick to the belief that her husband
was not insane.

Except for the fascinating acting skills, I really really really adore
the lighting and color of the film. I can proudly hang every frame of
the movie on my bedroom wall(except the scene Einar showed his male
parts, maybe), and proclaim them art pieces. Harmony of colors and
subjects, like oil painting, is the best solution for a film that is
filled by sentimental transformations. Or it would easily fall into the
trap of melodramatic depiction or confusion of emotions. But better
than A Girl With a Pearl Earring, this film is consolidated by subtle
facial expressions of actors and actresses, which clearly present the
inner struggles of characters.

For conclusion, I love this films and the techniques are perfect. But I
find it difficult to agree with Einar. He burdened Hans, Gerda, pained
them emotionally, and even caused his own death, because he wanted to
have a female body? Is it the ability to have sex as a woman that's
more important, or is it his and his loved ones' welfare that comes in
priority? Let's leave it to everyone's own judgment.
<|_=00=_|>
"He's comfortable in his own skin," is usually seen as a compliment. It
means that the person in question knows who he (or she) is and is
content with that sense of identity. I dare speculate that it's a
condition to which we all aspire. Unfortunately, many people around the
world lack that inner peace because of a question of gender identity.
Regardless of what others think about such an existential situation,
people who feel uncomfortable with the biology with which they were
born often suffer greatly over this conflict within their hearts and
minds. They cannot be comfortable in their own skin, because they don't
feel that their skin is really theirs. Before the somewhat more
enlightened times of the 21st century, people who identified with a
gender other than that to which biology assigned them suffered even
more than some do today. In ages past, those people had little
opportunity to make changes that would make themselves look on the
outside as they felt on the inside. "The Danish Girl" (R, 2:00) is one
such story.

Inspired by the true story of early 20th century married Danish
painters Einar and Gerda Wegener, like David Ebershoff's 2000 book on
which it's based, "The Danish Girl" is a fictionalized account of
Einar's physical transition to Lili Elbe. Neither the book nor Lucinda
Coxon's screenplay makes any claim to absolute historical accuracy.
This story changes many of the facts for dramatic purposes. The
real-life situation of Lili and Gerda's life was much more complicated
than we see on screen. The result is a film that tells a simple story
in a way that elicits empathy for the protagonists and enlightens the
audience.

Oscar winner Eddie Redmayne plays Einar/Lili, and Alicia Vikander, his
wife, Gerda. The couple lives in a large apartment in Copenhagen,
Denmark, where they both make a living painting. At first, Einar's
landscapes are more in demand and more respected than Gerda's
portraits. One day when Gerda was in a hurry to finish a portrait of
their mutual friend and ballerina, Oola (Amber Heard), Gerda asks Einar
to stand in as a model by putting on Oola's stockings and heels and
holding up Oola's dress in front of him. Although the scene is played
with a combination of humor and awkwardness, it's obvious that Einar
likes the clothes. He starts trying on his wife's clothes which gives
birth to an idea. Gerda is a bit conflicted, but being the open-minded
person she is, she suggests that her husband dress up as a woman to
attend an art world function that he had been trying to avoid. And just
like that, Lili is born.

The thing is that Einar had always felt like a female and being Lili
was the first opportunity that he had really had to express what he
felt was his true gender. Einar wears women's clothes and make-up more
and more often, both at home and out in public. Lili even begins
secretly seeing a local man named Henrik (Ben Whishaw). Gerda is
understandably upset by all this, but she never criticizes her
husband's inner turmoil or its outward manifestations. She wants to
understand, and the more she does, the more she mourns her marriage,
which she sees as slipping away. However, as all this is happening, her
art career begins to take off. She paints Lili more and more, in
fashionable clothes and in little or no clothes. As Gerda's style
develops, increasing demand for her paintings soon leads the couple to
move to Paris.

In Paris, Lili blossoms as a person, even as she seeks a more permanent
solution to her feeling that her biology doesn't match her identity.
She sees doctors whose diagnoses are wide-ranging, but are mainly
focused on Einar/Lili having some sort of mental deficiency. Hans Axgil
(Matthias Schoenarts), a childhood friend of Einar, tries to help, but
he can do little more than offer moral support to the couple. Finally,
Lili and Gerda find a possible solution in the person of German doctor
Kurt Warnekros (Sebastian Koch). Dr. Warnekros offers to perform
practically unprecedented sex reassignment surgery on Lili.

"The Danish Girl" is a very sensitive portrayal of a very tumultuous
experience in the lives of two real people. Whether you sympathize with
the situation of the two main characters or not, you're likely to
empathize with them as people. While presenting a story about the
controversial topic of gender identity, Oscar-winning director Tom
Hooper also tells a very human story within the framework of the
movie's plot. At its core, this is a tale of love and loss, of
tolerance and devotion, of feeling comfortable in one's own skin.
Although some Movie Fans may find some of the situations, images and
the brief but graphic nudity (both female and male) to be disturbing,
and the plot does drag at times, one of the main reasons to see this
movie is for the award-worthy performances by the two leads. With
impressive emotional range and depth, both Redmayne and Vikander make
this story surprisingly rich and relatable. Hooper draws even more
focus (literally) to the characters' feelings by choosing especially
significant moments to bring his camera in very close for a tight focus
on the characters' faces, while allowing everything beyond their necks
to go out of focus. "The Danish Girl" deserves credit for its honesty,
its emotional power and its succinct presentation of a very complicated
story. However, some of the changes in the story seem designed to
increase the impact of the story, a move I would call emotionally
manipulative. For that and other reasons, I just wish that this
otherwise excellent film had been more historically accurate. "B"
<|_=00=_|>
Because of the subject matter in The Danish Girl I wasn't sure this was
going to be a film that I would particularly like but I need not have
have worried because I thought this was a fascinating movie that
justified it's plaudits. This is the story of Danish artist Einar
Wegener (Eddie Redmayne) who realised that despite being born a man he
is really a woman and that woman is called Lile. Although Redmayne will
quite obviously get all the praise for his role as Lile but I think the
outstanding performance of this film comes from Alicia Vikander who
plays his wife. As an actor she is exposed unlike Redmayne who has the
make up to hide behind. Instead of being about Lile this film for me is
more about the love of his wife who will do anything to make her
husband happy. Even if that means losing him. in the process.
<|_=00=_|>
The Danish Girl (2015)

*** (out of 4) 

The semi true-story of painters Einar (Eddie Redmayne) and Gerda
Wegener (Alicia Vikander), a married couple who find their lives
changing when Einar dresses as a woman so Gerda can have someone to
paint but it brings something out in him. Soon Einar is going around as
the Lili character and soon decides that he's a woman on the inside.

THE DANISH GIRL is another beautiful looking film from Tom Hooper, the
director best known for his Oscar-winner THE KING'S SPEECH. Like that
film the director has no problem with the visual look of the film and
Hooper certainly knows how to put you in the period setting. It also
doesn't hurt that we've got some excellent performances and a rather
interesting and conflicted love story.

I think the real draw here are the performances with Redmayne once
again delivering a remarkable piece of work just a year after his Oscar
win for THE THEORY OF EVERYTHING. A lot of actors have played
male/female characters to perfection. In my mind the greatest was
Dustin Hoffman in TOOTSIE but that there was a comedy whereas this here
certainly isn't. It was really remarkable seeing how well Redmayne
played both the male and female character and he was certainly
believable as both. Whenever the Lili character was on screen you
really did feel as if you were watching an actress and not just a man
playing a female. Vikander is also excellent as the woman who finds the
man she love slowly turning into someone else.

The film features some beautiful cinematography, a great music score
and I also thought the screenplay was very good. The story itself drags
a tad bit during the first portion but I think it asks a lot of really
good questions about what love is and of course what one feels about
who they really are. I thought the flow of the film was quite good and
there's no question that it nails the costume design and sets. THE
DANISH GIRL isn't a masterpiece but it's certainly a very good movie
with some excellent performances.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to write a review of this movie, slamming its pretentiousness
and hurling tons of allegory onto its maximum levels of Oscar-Bait that
the trailer for this movie strained really hard to get across with all
of its criteria: the contemporary message of love for the trans
community, the good actors, the period-drama setting, the operatic
score. Instead, however, I come to tell of a movie that is so
emotionally lacking, so frustratingly distant, and so boring, which is
in a way the biggest disappointment for me.

To start off, the film's production design is strong. There was some
over-saturation of the colours they use to show this unrealistically
colourful world the character's live in, but the costumes are all
interesting and engaging. The mis-en-scene and the editing, however,
are a mess; Tom Hooper definitely shoots the environment better than
his actors, as whenever a conversation is going on, he continually
isolates each character to their own separate take and a camera that
focuses in on actors with nothing to react to. This, combined with a
continual lack of proper establishing shot, is a terrible choice of how
to do the movie; I know he's trying to make them intimate to us, but he
fails at making them intimate to each other and, as a result, the
audience doesn't care. The editing's a confusing and weird one; there
are a much of moments that make no sense. Firstly is a scene where
Einar delivers laundry to a woman collecting it, but he does it with
such insane speed it makes Usian Bolt look fat and slow (he has to run
from one end of their big house to another, after having to tie the bag
up tight) and it was so weird you wonder why they included it. Same
with the scene where Gerda gets out of a full period costume, including
big knee high leather boots, and into another one in the time it takes
her husband to paint a smudge on his canvas. But by far the biggest
"why the hell" with the editing is a shot when he's first becoming
Lili, and it cuts to some water on the floor. There was literally no
point except to confuse the audience.

Now onto the biggest issues with this movie - Eddie Redmayne, Alicia
Vikander and the script. To start with Alicia, she's great. She
honestly is, with both her body of work and her performance in this
film as she tries to bring a complete range of colours and shades to
this performance as she laughs, smiles, cries, and dances around. The
problem is she's trying her damned hardest to add something to nothing.
And let's get one thing straight here, this movie treats Gerda Wegener
like dirt. She's not a successful artist, she only has a career/notice
because of Einar before and after the creation of Lili, and she never,
NEVER gets angry, to the point where its insulting as he selfishly
pulls himself away from her and into Lili, leaving her absolutely
alone. Except for one scene where she pleads with him - "I need my
husband. I want to hold my husband", which is said out of frustration
than anything else - she never speaks out on any of it, and when she
does, he says one sentence then immediately shuts up. It's like the
fantasy of what people hope for other people to be, rather than them
actually being it - that scene where she first finds him wearing her
nightgown and then immediately starts banging him is so insultingly,
unrealistically forgiving that it hurt me. Mr Redmayne now. First of
all, whilst I thought that he did do a good job in The Theory of
Everything, I did think the Oscar was more appropriate in the hands of
Michael Keaton or Jake Gyllenhaal. In this movie, I have the exact same
issue as I did with that movie; he only tries with the difficult stuff
i.e. the actually being a woman, or actually having Motor Neurone
Disease, but the other times he is just a flat page delivering things
awkwardly and not really acting. The problem with this is that his
Stephen Hawking got ALS in the first 20 minutes of that film and he
could really do his thing, but in this, he becomes a woman in the last
10 minutes. Those 10 minutes are wonderful, but it doesn't warrant an
Oscar - or any award to be honest. He's a coy, fluttering, meek person
who doesn't really change personally throughout the film beyond the
physical nature of it. The script is full of lines that are
over-shadowing the theme of the story, but not in a good way; lines
like "It was like I was kissing myself" or "I'm worried you'll look at
that picture so long you'll disappear into it" are cringy and not
clever.

Apart from one scene in a Prostitute peep show, where Einar ends up
mimicking the woman's movements as she observes and goes from weirded
out to curious to understanding to sorry, the whole film grated for me
badly. It's boring, distant and while it was just under 2 hours, I
thought I'd been there longer

You want to go see it, be my guest. But if this wins an Oscar -
especially for Best Actor, which something of this calibre doesn't
warrant - then I hit the floor.
