
I have been a cinema lover for years, read a lot of reviews on IMDb and
everywhere, and never found the right movie to write my first review. I
always thought I would wait for THE movie.

And this is IT!

When I first heard that Nolan was preparing a sci-fi movie, I felt like
a kid again, waiting for his Christmas gift under the tree. I knew it
would become a classic. And I'm sure it will.

First of all, it is incredibly beautiful to watch. Honestly, it was so
beautiful that I felt like I was sucked into the movie. The way Nolan
decided to show some scenes really remind me of 2001 A Space Odyssey
(actually many things will probably remind you of this movie). We can
feel the talent of Christopher Nolan, just by looking at the way it is
filmed. The techniques he used contribute to create that visual
environment in a believable way.

The sound environment is just mesmerizing. It is a very important part
of the movie, because some scenes take place in space, and Noland just
found the right way to use sound. The soundtrack (made by the great
Hans Zimmer) is breathtaking, epic, amazing, unreal. I could find a lot
more adjectives to qualify it, but you have to hear it to understand
how epic they are. 

These two important parts (image and sound) create a stunning
atmosphere. You will forget you are in a movie theater, and you will be
lost in space, sucked into the adventures of this new Space Odyssey,
begging for more. It is a truly unique experience. I can say that I
have never felt something like that in a movie theater (at least not
for the past ten years).

Then, of course, the cast. First of all, Matthew McConaughey. I
discovered this actor in Tropic Thunder, but he didn't really convince
me, though he was quite funny. Then I saw Dallas Buyers Club. Since
that movie, I love him. In this movie... Well, he is the movie. I
exaggerate a bit, since there are other great actors (some even
unexpected with a special guest) who play extremely well. But he is
just what was needed to feel the human part of the story (which is very
important in Interstellar). He is capable of making us feel so many
different emotions all along the story, as a father, as a human. Anne
Hathaway was very convincing, all together the actors managed to create
some harmony, which makes the human interactions credible. Caine,
Chastaing and Affleck are a perfect choice. And then there is... The
special guest, I will call him "X". His role, which could be seen as a
minor role, is actually much more important than that. He proves, once
again, that he is a great actor. Watch and see.

And finally, the scenario/story. I won't spoil anything here; I'll just
try to convince you how great it is. Nolan is known to revolutionize
everything when he tries a new genre in cinema. Well, once again he did
it. With The Dark Knight he revolutionized the superhero genre. With
Interstellar he's revolutionizing the sci-fi genre in cinema. From what
I heard, he worked with a physicist (in gravitational physics and
astrophysics) to help him with that movie. And we can feel and see it.
During the fifties, Asimov laid the foundations of modern science
fiction. Lucas and Kubrick did the same in cinema. Today, Nolan is
laying the new foundations of the genre in cinema, proving that cinema
is still at the beginning of what can be done (brace yourselves my
friends, we have not seen anything yet). 

Why? Well, simply because we only know a few things about space, some
things can't be proved for the moment, so we can use theory, and make
the best of it. That is exactly what Nolan did. He used theories that
exist today, and made a movie about mankind, about pioneers, about
humanity, about us.

Because, in spite of all the sci-fi aspect, it is a story about
humanity. McConaughey, Hathaway, and mainly "X", will managed to
convince you about that.

My rating for this movie can only be a 10, because in itself, it is a
beginning for a new kind of cinema. It IS a classic. Those who say "we
can't compare this movie to 2001 Space Odyssey, nor can we compare
Nolan to Kubrick" are wrong. We can, and we should. Talented people
don't live only in the past, some genius live today, among us. And
Nolan is one of them. Many say that he is overrated. I truly don't
think so. Only time will answer that.

This is the sci-fi movie of the decade, and probably the best movie
Nolan ever made. Just go for it, without a second thought.
<|_=00=_|>
The film begins by establishing at his own rhythm its ambitions: men
overexploited land resources, which is why the only goal they have left
is to survive. This life is not enough for Cooper, brilliantly played
by McConaughey who gave body and soul to this character. But all of
this wouldn't hold without the total control of Christopher Nolan,
based on the languishing soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, the luminous and
impenetrable photography of Hoyte Van Hoytema, and the sincerity of
Nolan's directing. He manages to film the characters and to find the
right cut at the right time, always in harmony with Hans Zimmer's
soundtrack, to give the film an aspiring and inspiring dimension that
went missing for many many years. Thus we are transported into the same
cockpit that Cooper, we feel the same remorse that he can already feel,
we feel the same gravity, and we feel the same fear of the unknown
melted with the force of his will. All of this is brilliantly
illustrated in a very simple directing choice, which from my point of
view is the decisive impetus of the film: to directly jump from when
Cooper leaves in his truck, leaving his family behind him, to Endurance
taking off. This simple editing decision allows Nolan to give an
original movement to his film, and the musical crescendo makes us
physically feel the sentimental break between two parts of the film.

You don't necessarily have to understand it immediately : The film will
raise questions in you, such as : what is it to be a human being, is
there some physical limitations to our humanity, how far could we be
willing to go to determine knowledge, is there other dimensions that we
can not access to, and above all: what is the nature of this intact and
immutable bond that unites us to others wherever we are in the universe
? Is this bond only intelligible, or is it also tangible ? All these
questions resonate in harmony in Nolan's Interstellar. 

Interstellar is itself a crescendo, increasing sensitivity and
creativity. I use the term deliberately because it goes crescendo with
the soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, which is one of the most beautiful music
ever scored for a sci-fi movie. We are witnessing a perfect musical
arrangement, a total symbiosis, a bit like the music of Gravity which
had understood very well how to match the image and the rhythm of a
sequence to its own musicality. Zimmer's crescendos are giving a new
powerful breath to every new scene, whether it is in visually powerful
& intense moments or in more intimate moments; it intrudes into our
momentary feelings and sensations, and manages to extend them,
sometimes almost to choking, before resting on the balance of the film
frame along with our mind spell-bounded. 

I have seen all the talent of the director that I knew he was outside
the norm, but whom I did not know his capacity to reinvent itself.
Because this is it: Interstellar is not an action movie, not really a
blockbuster, and it goes not entirely but mostly again the expectations
of common people. It's much more than that. This is much more than just
a sci-fi movie. It is unlike any of his previous films. Some hoped to
see Interstellar as Christopher Nolan's best film, and they were
disappointed that this was not the case. And indeed, THIS IS NOT THE
BEST FILM of Christopher Nolan. Because in a way, IT IS HIS FIRST FILM.
I'm not saying that Interstellar is not as good as his other films, it
goes beyond all of them. But to me Interstellar is the first film of a
new stage in Nolan's filmography ; it is a masterpiece as it the
beginning of a work ahead. Interstellar is the proof that Nolan has
finally managed, despite all the expectations that were placed on him
after the success of The Dark Knight, to move away from his own
reputation to create a personal work, original, humble, sincere and
deeply, meticulously, measured.

Now, in this third act of the film, it all comes to life with
unparalleled strength. Nolan poses and answers questions that raise
others. But he focuses his attention on the great mystery of love, that
emotional bond that can unite men and sometimes separate them. But
Nolan is the only one that can successfully speak of love from a being
to another in a film that mainly takes place in a another galaxy. From
my point of view, only Solaris by Steven Soderbergh (2002),
unfortunately neglected by the audience, was able to accomplish that.
Interstellar is based on a premise which is the following : from
terrestrial dust to the depths of space and time, we can never be
separated from who we are as individuals and as a species, as we always
leave a part of ourselves "behind" us. In other words, I could say that
this is a human story, and even if we go as far as we want to, if we
travel through the universe believing that we can be detached of the
one we are fond of, we will only get closer to them. Because the
separation, and thus the distance and time, can only ultimately
reinforce the relationship between the people who really love each
other. Because it is going to the end of the world, when we reach the
end of ourselves, that we reach the singularity of the "black hole
beyond the horizon" * : it is our humanity. No, I wasn't been able to
find any bad flaws in the film. Not one, and I'm still looking. After
all, Interstellar is like gravity, "all it takes is a little push ! "

*you'll have to see the movie to figure that one out.

FÃ©lix Tardieu, November 1st, 2014
<|_=00=_|>
(This is both a review of the film, and an assertion of Christopher
Nolan's filmmaking style)

There have been many reviewers and critics alike that have high praise
for the film (the visual effects, the acting, the music), but say how
it's not Christopher Nolan's best directed film. This is where i
personally would have to disagree. Before i get into it, though, i'll
talk about Interstellar a bit.

Interstellar is truly a sci-fi epic like no other. To compare said film
to '2001: A Space Odyssey' isn't just a disservice, but unnecessary.
The films are almost nothing alike, simply sharing small plot elements.
Also, Stanley Kubrick's vision of Arthur C. Clarke's sci-fi epic wasn't
to ponder the philosophical questions that accompanied the story, but
to make art, and art is was, and is. With Interstellar, Mr. Nolan set
out to make his most personal and emotional film to date about love and
time (time being a recurring theme throughout all of Nolan's films).
But it's so much more than that too. There are no words to express the
epic journey Nolan takes us on in the film, but needless to say, it's
tear-jerking and emotional throughout. The acting is top-notch,
especially McConaughey, who gives (I would say) his most emotional
performance yet. But the actor who stole the show in a few scenes (one
in particular, when they're on an alien planet) was David Gyasi as
Romilly, one of the astronauts aboard the Endurance, their spacecraft.
The musical score from Hans Zimmer is, without a doubt, his best and
most influential work to date, helping drive the film's bold and
breath-taking vision (the church organ helped significantly). The
visual effects are easily the best to date as well, and of the year. To
see a black hole created through visual effects in such a way, with
pages theoretical equations provided by Kip Thorne (theoretical
physicist, of whom's work inspired the film's genesis); what you see in
the film is the most realistic depiction of a black hole, and even
offered new insight to accretion discs surrounding the anomalies. But
even everything else, from the alien planets to the Endurance, the
visuals always look real. Then, there's the writing. I would definitely
have to say this has some of the best dialogue i've ever heard in a
sci-fi movie, and the script continually pours or oozes emotion,
keeping the audience tethered to the film.

Now, about Mr. Nolan. Don't just look at Nolan, but look at his films.
Some say Inception would be his masterpiece, while others would say
it's The Dark Knight, or Memento. But honestly, every single film
Christopher Nolan has directed is a masterpiece not of its genre, but
of Nolan. Following is his quiet masterpiece, not the film that put Mr.
Nolan on the map as a phenomenal director, but one people visited or
revisited after becoming accustomed to Nolan, after seeing Memento,
what could be called his breakout masterpiece. Then, right after, he
directed the remake of the Norwegian thriller, Insomnia. This, too,
could be considered a masterpiece, even if a remake. Then, we were
given his take on the Batman universe, starting with Batman Begins, the
origin masterpiece. Then, there's The Prestige, adapted from the novel
of the same name, which can be called his dark masterpiece. The Dark
Knight, his bold masterpiece; Inception, his complex masterpiece, and
The Dark Knight Rises, his flawed masterpiece. Now, we have
Interstellar, his emotional or personal masterpiece.

This is just my looking at Nolan and his films, but whatever your
thoughts are, you can't deny Interstellar is one hell of a journey. He
certainly is one of the best filmmakers of our time, and of all time. I
can't wait to see what he does next, but i'm not sure it will be as
emotionally powerful as Interstellar.
<|_=00=_|>
I was extremely lucky to get the chance to see this film upon its first
day release, before entering the cinema, my expectations were already
high, after all, this was a film from the cinematic genius who brought
us the likes of 'Inception' and 'The Dark Knight', to summarise the
following review in a single sentence: I left the cinema in extreme awe
from the visual masterpiece I had just viewed. A film that explores the
psychological and emotional state of a man whose life revolves around
his family, 'Interstellar' is a thrilling and thought-provoking film
that boasts an intellectual story masterfully written by the Nolan
brothers. Whilst there seems to have been influence from films like
'2001: A Space Odyssey' and 'Apollo 13', 'Interstellar' is unique in
its own way. Whilst the subject may be hard to comprehend at times, it
can't be denied how visually monumental and thoughtful Christopher
Nolan's epic science fiction masterpiece is, and can easily be named
the best film of this year and possibly one of the greatest science
fiction films to have ever graced the screen. A sheer brilliant feat of
cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
'Interstellar' was incredible. The visuals, the score, the acting, were
all amazing. The plot is definitely one of the most original I've seen
in a while. Most of the critic reviews have said that some bits are a
little too unbelievable, but I have to disagree. Yes, there were some
parts that were definitely in the "fi" part of sci-fi. But the thing
is, 'Interstellar' deals with concepts that we know very little about.
We have no idea what the 4th or 5th dimension is like, or what it would
be like to go through a wormhole or a black hole. I don't think it's
fair to call something unbelievable, when we have absolutely no idea
what WOULD be believable in those circumstances. Either way, excellent
writing from the Nolan brothers. The visuals were outstanding, and will
no doubt be nominated for an Oscar. The performances were excellent,
though nothing Oscar worthy, as is the case with most of Nolan's films
('The Dark Knight' being the obvious exception). Hans Zimmer's score
was amazing and blended perfectly with the film. All in all,
'Interstellar' is an excellent movie, which I personally think is
Nolan's most beautiful film to date.
<|_=00=_|>
Love is the one thing that transcends time and space... 

New creation of Christopher Nolan's genius, whose name is now known to
everyone. His films are waiting with a special look, because it offers
something that every day, unfortunately, less and less can be found in
the world of mass cinema - an interesting spectacle, filled with
meaning, ideas and emotions. At this time, Christopher decided to send
us not to the world of dreams, and even not on the dark streets of
Gotham City. No, now he send us to the journey to, and perhaps beyond
the boundaries of the possible and impossible, through the curvature of
space and time, in other worlds. And you won't forget this trip, this
can be assured. 

I was madly waiting for Interstellar's release. And then, finally, I
was able to see this Beauty - at the premiere in my coutry on October,
29. It was incredibly exciting. It was a delight. It was unforgettable.
It was gorgeous. Nolan once again amazes the viewer's imagination by
his painting. Journey to the brink of infinity, the line where humanity
has never set, acts as either the first-born purpose and a background
of emotional history about the father and the daughter. A loving father
who mankind need to help, but that he should leave his children, and a
loving daughter who doesn't want to let her dad in the infinity
darkness. 

Starting from the very first frame and ending with the closing credits,
a new picture of Nolan will absorb you completely, forcing stare at the
screen during the whole action, because it's all so exciting and
interesting that escape becomes physically impossible. No, this three
hours won't fly quickly for you. You'll feel every emotion, every
event, every character. You will not look how the main characters
travel through the universe, because the movie experience in this film
is so excellent that you will be on board of "Endurance" starship and
travel between the worlds with the main characters by yourself.

The emotional core of this story is the relationship of Matthew
McConaughey's character and his daughter - Mackenzie Foy' and Jessica
Chastain' character. And the acting work of these three artists in
"Interstellar" impress the most. McConaughey was acting really great,
and this is one of the most emotional, if not the most emotional role
of his life. All the drama and tragedy of the relationship of father
and daughter in this film will not leave anyone indifferent. Anne
Hathaway, Wes Bentley, Michael Caine, Casey Affleck, Ellen Burstyn and
other actors also coped with their roles and presented the film's
supporting characters very realistic. I would particularly like to note
a small but important in this story role of Matt Damon, a character who
has received quite memorable. If we talk about the characters, it
should be noted also two robots that accompanied our heroes in this
difficult journey. One of them adds a touch of humor in the film, which
mitigates constantly depressing, dramatic, and sometimes really dark
atmosphere.

The script of the film is very well combined the history of space
exploration and the relationship between Cooper and Murph. The story is
complex and complicated, is based on real scientific theories by Kip
Thorne, and indeed contains a reference to the "Space Odyssey" and
other sci-fi pictures. This story about true love, about loyalty,
forgiveness, fraud, hard decisions, and much more. And it is designed
so that leaves a lot of room for the imagination of the viewer. It's
also possible to notice some structure allusion to another Nolan's work
- Inception. The story and visuals are combined just perfectly in
Interstellar.

Hans Zimmer's score, written by him on the basis of only one letter
from Nolan, hold the key: "Once we become parents, we can't help but
look at ourselves through the eyes of our children", deserves a special
praise. On this basis, Hans managed to write just incredible soundtrack
that perfectly harmonizes with the history and the visual side of the
picture. And this work of the composer is really different from the
previous ones. It is executed in a different style from another subject
in its base. Very impressive work, which will be pleasantly listened
again and separate from the film itself. 

Visual range of the picture is incredibly beautiful and circuses. The
"Endurance" itself, new worlds, insanely beautiful and mysterious
space, wormholes, black holes, and travel through them, folds of time
and space are arranged so that is simply breathtaking. I would like to
thank all those who contributed to the creation of a visual of this
film. It must be seen. That mastery with which this is done, not just
words. In the visual pattern also has some references to the Kubrick's
"Odyssey", and they are pleasing to the eye.

Many thanks to Christopher Nolan for having given us such an incredible
movie, which once again proved to us that the cinema is Nolan's life. 

"Interstellar" is a film that wins the hearts of the audience not only
with its sci-fi splendor, but also an emotional story that lies at its
very heart. This film is not only about the discoveries, space
exploration and the final frontier of mankind, but also about the
relationship of father and daughter, who were in a difficult situation
in life when one has to leave the other in the name of a goal that can
not be underestimated. So, with what Nolan's genius unfolds before us
this action is beyond praise. Combining the story, filled with not only
real science fiction, but the true human values ââand emotions,
outstanding and very emotional performances, breathtaking visuals, epic
and dramatic soundtrack, Christopher Nolan breathed the life into this
film by his directing to create something truly masterpiece again. 

"Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night... Rage, Rage Against The Dying
Of The Light."
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched Interstellar in imax 70mm. Science Fiction fans can read
on, everyone else can skip. Movie is a visual masterpiece. Like his
earlier movies, Christopher Nolan once again proved, how big a movie
can be! There were some shots,which made audience go crazy..Some scenes
were as epic as 2001: A Space Odyssey. Do not go into the theatre
expecting an action packed cerebral thriller. This one is not for
action fans. At times, movie go highly sentimental( Matthew McConaughey
does what he is best in and supposed to). I recommend this movie to all
the Sci-Fi fans out there, make sure you go in group of sci-fi nuts!!
Do not go with the hype..Go, sit back and enjoy. Just like Inception,
this movie will be known as great after few months(I know people who
said Inception was a crap when it released, and after few months rating
it 10/10 in IMDb :D). I don't wanna spoil anything(If you want PM me).
Also, make sure you go to the best theatre close to you. (If you loved
Donnie Darko, 2001: A Space Odyssey, this is the one for you, Get ready
to get mind blown!!) Interstellar Movie is EPIC in all sense!!
<|_=00=_|>
So last night I got the chance to see the early screening of
Christopher Nolan's Interstellar. The film I've been waiting so much
from the early days of the shooting. How did it fare? Here's my take:

To avoid any tl;dr risk, let me get this straight from the very
beginning, Interstellar is one goddamnedly good film, it gets you to
the edge of your seat, it soars, it warps, it rips your brain
senseless. It's that good.

Interstellar is a story about the earth dying, with its soil no longer
able to sustain crops other than corn, and of course, it will lead to
the extinction of humanity. Our hero is an ex-NASA test pilot named
Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a typical
ordinary-guy-in-an-extraordinary- situation everyman who's also a
dedicated family man, especially toward his daughter Murphy (named
after the Murphy's Law). In an all-too-Armageddon style our hero gets
invited by the (publicly) defunct NASA to become humanity's last hope
in finding a new home, for they have found a wormhole near Saturn
(2001, anyone?) which will warp the astronauts to another galaxy in
quest of a habitable planet. Solid and compact premise, although it's
been used before.

For seasoned filmgoers, there are many similar elements (although it's
understandable) with Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) and
Robert Zemeckis' Contact (1997). In a sense that this is not a
bang-bang-shoot-shoot-blow-em-up sci-fi, but more of a slow-burning,
metaphysical sci-fi which gets you to think about your place in the
universe and your exact place in time.

Similarity with 2001 and Contact is never a bad thing, but it becomes a
wee bit too predictable, although Nolan is a smart enough director in
providing the final (a very sentimental one, I should say) twist in the
story. The visuals in this film is majestic, everything is shot to a
meticulously calculated level, Nolan-style. The space scenes are
serenely suspenseful just like Cuaron's Gravity, but unlike the
documentary feel of Gravity, there's a real gusto and pace to these
scenes. You should also be prepared for the (for some, maybe)
unexpected third act, it is Nolan's most sentimental and humane moment
to date. And this is why Interstellar is more than just a
science-fiction, it is a human drama intertwined in space and time
loop.

One thing that Nolan gets a bit wrong is the narrative. Nolan was never
a 'warm' director, his films are filled with brilliant ideas and flair
but it feels cold, it maybe suits Memento and The Dark Knight but in
Interstellar he seems to have been lost in determining which of the
interpersonal drama or the sci-fi that will be Interstellar's forte.
The result is a rather incongruous script, intermittently cutting off
the excitement of the previous scene and so on. But it is a forgivable
sin, for the good is a lot more than the bad in this monumental film.
At the end of the day, all I can say is that Interstellar is a grand
film. It is monolithic, thoughtful, sentimental, sophisticated,
visceral but also with its flaws. I wouldn't say it's Nolan's best work
to date, but I daresay that this is one of the best science fiction
ever released.

After watching Interstellar, do yourself a favor and get lost in space
and time and go back in time to see Contact (1997) and 2001: A Space
Odyssey (1968) to further wonder and wander into the realms of the
unknown.

Because sometimes it is the unknown that fascinates us, frightens us
and brings out the best in us.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Nolan fan but, and perhaps that's why, I see Interstellar as a
failed magic act. The multi-layered surprise and amazement that we have
come to expect of Nolan's films did not deliver. I believe this
particular film, like Prometheus, failed due to the maker's inherent
desire to create an epic - it took on too much, tried too hard and did
it all wrong. 

I'm willing to suspend disbelief for the sake of artistic creativity,
assume space suits and modern telecommunication systems pass unscathed
through black holes (and really, who knows?) but there are things that
cannot be excused with the budget and resources at the disposal of this
genius film-making team (such as bad script and poor plot planning). 

IDEA / PLOT The overarching idea is good, if not new. I found it hard
to feel amazed by the (too many) plot twists. Ultimately the
combination of all of them was tepid. We were expecting Murphy to be
older than Cooper midway onwards. Murphy's brilliant solution leading
to mankind's escape from earth failed to awe. Firstly - a massive
stretch on the Morse code / quantum data, secondly - the two
laugh-out-loud "eureka" moments - and thirdly, the "aha" factor on
seeing the new, curved reality space station was completely missing
that feeling - "aha, so that was it, that's what it was all about".
More failures - Matt Damon segue and the very overdone "ghost"
revelation.

SYMBOLISM / KEY TWIST The portrayal of the time dimension within a
three dimensional world in the form of the undulating bookshelf wall
was beautifully rendered. However everything else about that scene felt
wrong - the space-suited Cooper - would he have stayed in exactly that
form inside a singularity even if future advanced beings - them / us -
have helpfully carved him a neat 3-D nook in a 5-D world? This needed
exploration and some complexity. The continuation of his radio
communication equipment felt way too convenient, the whole frantic
scene "explained" again by the unexplained rush that's a hallmark of
this film.

So, although the symbolic setup was good, I had to work hard to suspend
disbelief - to get Cooper to the back of the bedroom wall and have him
throw out clues using gravity and love as forces transcending
dimensions - why back of the wall? Why not front? Why did the
space-time continuum stop him there (that you can't go back in the time
dimension, does not explain how he could gravitationally interfere with
that particular room - in the past - and why he couldn't, I don't know,
leave a Morse code message to himself well before all of this happened?
Also, why his daughter? We get no clue in the first part of the film
why this duo in particular is chosen, the only hint to Murhpy's future
proclivity for the sciences coming from a penchant for decoding Morse
and Michael Caine's all- forgiving view of her as a"firebrand" or
something such.)

PACING / DIALOG Plot pacing was terrible (variously too slow and too
fast). Dialog was terrible. It would have benefited from further
revision and thought around how to present this particular story to the
layman. I found myself wondering how an actor of Matt Damon's caliber
did not just wave a huge red flag when he had to say why Prof Brand
knew the mission would fail -"because he could not reconcile quantum
physics with the theory of relativity" (not a direct quote). Even if he
isn't a physicist. The only lines I can still recall liking in the film
are by Dylan Thomas (also overused).

PRESENTATION I write this with only an armchair enthusiasm for physics,
familiarity limited to the most dumbed-down works of Stephen Hawking. I
found most of the science concepts used very trite - wormholes, black
holes, relativity, time dilation - trite because of their portrayal as
convenient plot tools. Having agreed in an extreme and completely
unexplained hurry to leave his family behind perhaps forever, we then
find out that Cooper needs to be told these concepts one at a time
using, at varying moments, a folded paper pierced by a pen,
oyster/pearl metaphors, and a suddenly-presented love interest for Anne
Hathaway (that plot point on love being an unexplained force was
particularly deeply unconvincing). I understand some of the angles
needed to be explained to most people, but Nolan has done hard things
more elegantly in the past. That is where one expected Nolan to
deliver. 

As things were it made you wonder the entire time why this crew was the
best of humanity. Murphy's law, indeed.

ACTING Matthew McConaughey's drawl was sporadic and seemed unnecessary.
His character did not convince me either that he was the guy who is
most capable of being spontaneously recruited for an urgent NASA
mission (and what if he had refused?), nor that he was the guy who
loved his daughter in a unique way that transcended dimensions (or more
so than anyone else), nor even as a suitable candidate to return from
this odyssey with all its shenanigans through black holes, gyrating
space stations and a cracked space helmet (!) We never know his history
well enough. Anne Hathaway and the rest of the crew were no more
impressive. Michael Caine was convincing, but ultimately confusing, as
his confession left more questions asked than answered. 

TARS stole the show, and should have had more lines.

EFFECTS / SCORE The effects were not comparable to Gravity. I wondered
why their spacecraft was not equipped with the basic equipment to check
metrics / giant waves / frozen clouds / landing conditions when any
commercial satellite today will do that for you and tell you where you
are to a foot's accuracy. But, details.

The score was beautiful, and one of Zimmer's best. What a waste.
<|_=00=_|>
The universe is full of fascinating facts. It's mind-bending to
contemplate, for example, the awesome size of our galaxy. Light travels
186,000 miles per second and yet it takes 100,000 years for a single
beam of light to cross the entire Milky Way Galaxy. And our galaxy, to
quote Carl Sagan, is only one among billions and billions. The vastness
of space truly is stunning.

But thanks to a "worm hole" the folks in Interstellar leave the Milky
Way in a cosmic snap of the fingers. And yet, having just achieved this
most amazing of all feats, our heroes are pretty much bored to tears.
Instead, everybody is more concerned with some father/daughter
relationship that wasn't developed in the first place.

Look, if you're going to make a movie that purports to explore the
fascinating mysteries of the universe, then do it! Have some wonderment
in the story. Dazzle me not only with visuals, but with amazement at
the astonishing scope of our universe. And why not produce a script
that obeys the laws of astrophysics, or at least some theories thereof?

This movie takes something that would dwarf the Apollo lunar missions
and turns it into some ridiculous "Plan A/Plan B" tediousness. I
suggest instead watching "Through the Wormhole" with Morgan Freeman or
re- watching "2001: A Space Odyssey." Heck, even "Contact" with Jodie
Foster is far more entertaining and imaginative than Interstellar. 

And yet. . .9.2 stars!

I'm not saying 10-star reviews on this site are phony; after all, major
film critics also are raving about Interstellar. Unfortunately, I find
most professional film critics about as credible as the physics in this
movie.

Frankly, Interstellar is a boring movie! And if that puts me in the
vast minority of reviewers, fine, I can live with that. Because I have
minimum standards when I pay $11 for admission and $8.50 for large
popcorn.

Stay home and read a good book instead, or just gaze out at the night
sky and reflect on our amazing universe.
