
I've been a member of IMDb for many years now and rarely do I take the
time to comment on a film. In addition, I watch, on average, about
10-15 films a month, split among all genres including horror. Lately
though, I've been very disenfranchised with most horror films
especially with the proliferation of shock/gore/splatter/torture-porn
films such as Hostel 2, The latest Saw film, Captivity, etc. Enter "The
Mist" and I leave the theater saying to myself "this is why I go see
movies".

Frank Darabont should be the only one adapting Steven King novels and
short stories...period. He brings a human balance that's missing in
most horror films these days. You can have the most unbelievable, and
maybe even the most ludicrous, situations and events, but if you make
the characters believable and further peel the layers to expose fear,
prejudices and vulnerability then you have the foundations towards
making an effective film. I was absolutely gripped during the entire
film, and that all-too-rare-these-days sense of dread permeates through
almost every scene and left me emotionally exhausted at the end. And
speaking of the ending, isn't that what almost everyone is talking
about? I'm not going to give anything away, but in my opinion, I loved
it. I can see why it can split into camps of "loved it"/"didn't like
it" but for me it was a great conclusion to the entire storyline of the
human condition. I wouldn't have changed a thing.
<|_=00=_|>
On first impressions The Mist doesn't remotely seem like the kind of
film anyone should be excited about. The Mist, what? A bit like The
Fog, then. Stephen King's The Mist, oh, that makes it even worse.
Directed by Frank Darabont, since when did he direct horror films?
Okay, so he scripted Nightmare on Elm Street 3 and The Blob, not bad
films, but not classics in any sense. Starring Thomas Jane, has anyone
seen The Punisher. And, to cap it all, The Mist died a quick death at
the US box office. It'll probably go straight to DVD in the UK.

The only reason I bought and watched the film was on a recommendation
from a friend. He pleaded: "You have to see this film. You won't
believe how good it is." So I put his judgement to the test.

And thank God. This is a great horror film. From the opening scene,
Darabont sets a tone that's creepy, sinister and beautifully judged.
The script is realistic, the character are believable and the
direction... Darabont has almost reinvented himself. The Mist is dark,
scary and even funny (intentionally). You care about the characters,
the scary scenes are scary, and the whole film is carried off with an
efficiency, a lack of pretension and a strong idea of what makes a
good, if not great, horror film.

And the ending... how dark can you get? I can understand why this
didn't do well at the box office. But neither did Shawshank
Redemption...
<|_=00=_|>
Let me take a breath... Never have I had such a visceral physical
reaction to a film... ever. Not even with Elem Klimov's Come and See.
In the last fifteen minutes I was nearly physically paralyzed, and then
started shaking, realizing how numb my body was... and I am dead
serious. Frank Darabont's adaptation of Stephen King's novella goes
heads above a 50s/60s monster movie homage. This is grade "A" chilling,
terrifying, unsettling and utterly hopeless cinema in line with the
most cynical and depressing classics from the 70s. The Mist itself and
the monsters it brings are just the appetizer here. As all good horror
should be, this explores the ultimate enemy, ourselves. In short one of
the most beautiful, thrilling and terrible times I've had at the
movies.

To elaborate, it isn't a pitch perfect film... Some of the CGI at the
beginning is weak, and there are a few lines that can't escape the
genre, but other than that this is a home run in every department - The
performances (especially from Toby Jones and Marcia Gay Harden), the
ingenious hand held camera, which is never used as a gimmick. The sound
design, the lack of an underscore... This lends to the great atmosphere
and tension Darabont builds. I'm sure you can guess by now this isn't
schmaltzy, sentimental Darabont here; this is an angry, maniacal man
that rears his head and shouts, "Everything is lost!" and then shoots
you in the gut. Any fan of Stephen King, The Twilight Zone or Ray
Bradbury, will greedily devour this with a great big grin on their
face, then feel very sick but so damn happy and then throw up. Best
film of the year yet.
<|_=00=_|>
While the cast and crew of "The Mist" will herald the Weinstein
Brothers at press junkets and the like, the producing duo has made
2007's most refreshingly original horror films ("Grindhouse,"
"Halloween") sacrificial lambs to fright-unfriendly weekends (there's a
good article on this at Dread Central.com). And while "The Mist"
certainly commands a 30-foot screen, maybe its best possible fate lies
on DVD, where viewers with surround sound and a widescreen TV can live
the horrific, harrowing experience without the distraction of an
audience too dumb to decipher their ticket stubs.

"What's wrong with Stephen King?!" one member asked at the climax of
"The Mist," certain he had made an alternately incisive and hilarious
comment. To which I thought, "Had you actually read the novella, clod,
you'd know that King ended on an (almost) upbeat note." With home
entertainment fast becoming the industry standard, I guess the
expectation of a tactful audience is beyond reason anymore.

Despite the running commentary, I was able to see the treasure most of
the room missed out on. As a novella, "The Mist" islike most of King's
workpulpy, scary, and compelling. The film, written and directed by
Frank Darabont, is a stunning adaptation that manages to capture the
slow burn of dread and desperation that permeates the novella. And
while there is an uncanny titular similarity to John Carpenter's "The
Fog," this is an altogether different beast.

The setup is simple: after a brutal storm whips through a small Maine
community, movie poster artist David Drayton (Thomas
Jane"Dreamcatcher") and his son, Bill (Nathan Gamble) head into town
for supplies, accompanied by Norton (Andre Braugher), their next-door
neighbor. Once they arrive at a small shopping plaza, a shear mist
encroaches upon them, trapping a large number of people inside a
grocery store. The utter randomness of this scenario is enough to make
one's skin crawl, but it turns out there are prehistoric-looking
monsters waiting in the mist. And the inhabitants of the store become
increasingly desperate for survival.

(At this juncture, I will apologize in advance for the upcoming
comparisons to "Night of the Living Dead," due to the sheer quantity of
mentions.) 

What follows has a lot of thematic parallels to George Romero's "Night
of the Living Dead," a B movie whose guerrilla fearlessness and
intelligence pushed it into legitimacy and legend. "The Mist" is as
much about things-that-go-bump-against-the-plate-glass as the way in
which trapped humans respond to such a fantastic situation. Like
"Night," the breakdown of social order and martial law is addressed;
the role of the military comes into play; religious fundamentalism is
personified by Mrs. Carmody (Marcia Gay Harden), a fire-and-brimstone
type who becomes a macabre, sacrifice-minded beacon to the store's
desperate. In an era where most of today's horror crowd expects "Saw
XIV" every time they walk into a theater, Darabont's script is built on
a foundation of logic and authentic human action (even when characters
do things we know are unwise, their rationale is convincingly
fleshed-out) as opposed to manipulative twists and anticlimaxes. The
ending is at once ballsy, depressing, and right. Like "Night," "The
Mist" is less about otherworldly monsters than mankind's uncanny
ability to BE the monster.

That being said, "The Mist" works as well as a traditional horror film,
with several genuinely scary sequences involving mutant hybrids of
pterodactyls, houseflies, and spiders, with several Cthulhu-esquire
unmentionables to complement their Lovecraftian backstory. The CG is
well-utilized and the sharp editing keeps it from being overdone.
Darabont transforms the creatureswhich are essentially '50s B-movie
fodderinto absolutely convincing visions of hell. This film bucks
current horror trends by actually scaring the audience instead of just
repulsing them.

"The Mist" is one of the year's best.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very impressed by this adaptation of Stephen King's 'The Mist'. I
have been a fan of the story since it came out and have played the text
game and have heard the 3-D audio version of it. This is a masterful
suspense/monster movie that puts an ensemble cast into the untenable
situation of being in a deteriorating situation they cannot escape
from. We watch as alliances are formed, religious paranoia takes hold
and, nicely, the movie takes the time to establish characters whom we
come to care for before the true action begins. I dock it a couple of
points because some of the monsters seemed a little too cgi, and the
middle lags a bit, but the much talked about ending is indeed awesome
and I was most impressed by the director's decision to keep the music
soundtrack down and even eliminate it completely during many of the
action sequences. So many movies nowadays crank the music up to 11 to
make up for the fact that their suspense scenes do not work. This movie
does. I was breathlessly on the edge of my seat for most of it, even
though I was already familiar with the story. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
If, two years ago, you told me that within a couple of years two
excellent Stephen King film adaptations would be released, I would
probably have laughed it off. Films like The Shining, Shawshank
Redemption, Stand by Me, The Stand and 1408 are usually pretty far
between (Note that I consider The Green Mile and Carrie to be the most
over-rated King adaptations, so they do not appear here). I like most
of the films that have been made from Stephen King novels, novellas,
and short stories mainly because I like Stephen King, but I do not
recommend many of them as truly good films.

Frank Darabont's (writing and directing) The Mist adapts a horror
novella of the same name. King's horror work has been the most
difficult material to adapt, but this film is comparable to other genre
stand-outs such as The Shining and 1408.

A brief, dramatic thunderstorm is followed by a freak mist that
descends on a small New England town. As the mist permeates the town,
people congregate in the local supermarket and hardware store to stock
up and gather supplies. David Drayton (Thomas Jane), his son (Nathan
Gamble), and his neighbor (Andre Braugher) are among them. Tension
builds as a steady stream of military vehicles pass through the mist
headed south from a nearby base. But serious concern doesn't start
until one of the locals runs to the supermarket with blood spatters on
his clothing and talking of monsters in the mist.

Indeed, there are horrors outside in the fog, but there are also
horrors inside the market - as paranoia, irrationality and religion
come into conflict with practical issues of survival.

Unlike many horror films, The Mist examines fear and its effects
realistically, looks at the horror created by forces beyond human
control and the even more terrifying horror that fear creates through
forces that are completely within our grasp - our own fears, our
beliefs and our treatment of each other. It does so using a classic
formula which is comparable to films like Night of the Living Dead and,
more recently, Feast.

The cinematography, editing and directing are all excellent. The acting
is quite good - Marcia Gay Harden and William Sadler stood out for me -
and the script is exactly where it needed to be for this adaptation.

Highly recommended for King fans and horror fans. Recommended for
Sci-Fi fans. Weakly recommended for average cinema-goers who are not
generally interested in horror.
<|_=00=_|>
I always say to people that Frank Darabont is the only man who can
truly make a great Stephen King adaptation. I'm not so sure I have the
credentials to state that as fact, but I do anyways. I love The
Shawshank Redemption, but never read Rita Hayworth and I read The
Green Mile, but still have yet to watch the film. So, I can't quite
compare his work with that of the author, however, that did little to
temper my anticipation for his first based on a supernatural story,
with The Mist. Early buzz was that he completed the hat trick; even
with some unavoidable clichés inherent to the genre, he was able to
create something unique and terrifying. I have to say that I agree
whole-heartedly. The tale that he has spun and the performances that he
has wrenched from his actors are nothing short of spectacular. With the
amount of tension built up, you hardly have time to notice the somewhat
mediocre effects work and token moments of horror tradition. Whereas
someone less capable would have tried to tell the tale of humanity
versus the otherworldly beasts outside their grocery store cage,
Darabont tells it how it really isfear of the unknown turning man
against man. There is no scarier monster than the one hidden inside us
all.

We aren't given very much background at all. Thrown into the plot by a
huge storm knocking power out and leaving destruction in its wake, we
don't have much time before we are taken to the grocery store that
becomes our setting for almost the entire duration. These are not
two-dimensional characters, though, and through their conversations
with each other, we glean a lot about who they are. It helps that this
is a small town where everyone knows everyone, and they all make sure
each other knows it. You have to love the old retired teacher calling
you an underachiever right before you go out to risk your life against
creatures straight from another dimension. The occupations of everyone
plays into the plot course too, from a movie poster artist trying to
tell the group that he saw tentacles attempting to take them out into
the mist, to a lawyer doing his best to see the practicality of the
situation and necessity of evidence before being convinced. They all
have one thing in common, though, and that is the need for protection,
the need for a herd to follow. As Armageddon plays out on the other
side of the glass windows, fear takes hold, pitting faith against
rationality, morality opposite ceremonial sacrifice.

Darabont has his cinematographer stay in very close throughout the
movie. With extremely tight compositions, we are able to see the
emotions and the chaos reflected by each actor's eyes. Everyone handles
the pressure differently and the filmmakers don't cop-out from showing
us each. The feeling leads to some claustrophobic moments, but also
some wonderful action pieces, showing us the brutality and violence up
close with no question or ambiguity to what happened. Towards the end,
we are given a witch-hunt sequence between the zealots and the
pragmatists. It is just a breathtaking piece of cinematic splendor,
beautifully orchestrated despite its cruel subject matter and unabashed
frankness. If you want to see grotesque, remorseless creatures, just
take a glimpse at your neighbor. I'm sure it is there just below the
surface, waiting for an opportunity to come up for air and latch onto
the coattails of the nearest person crazy enough to think they know the
answers and that they alone can lead the rest to salvation.

The acting is simply phenomenal. An ensemble of so many recognizable
faces has been compiled and no one misses a step. Thomas Jane is
devastating as the father of a young boy doing his best to keep
everyone calm while taking stock of the situation in an attempt to find
a way out; Toby Jones gives a nice turn as the slightly nerdy store
assistant manager who is constantly walked on until his true worth is
shown; and Andre Braugher is effective as the foil to Jane, their rocky
relationship evolving and devolving as each minute goes by. While
everyone is fantastic, it is Marica Gay Harden that becomes the real
tour de force. I have never been a huge fan of hers; she is solid for
sure, but usually comes off as annoying to me. Here, though, she is the
most frightening character on screen. Channeling God's wishes through
her demented skull leads to the separation into two factions of the
survivors. If this wasn't a genre flick I'd say she had a pretty decent
shot at getting her second supporting actress Oscar.

Every note is played to perfection. Overcoming any crutches that the
nature of horror/thrillers bring with them, Darabont has crafted an
emotionally draining piece of cinema that leaves the audience gasping
for air as though they have been kicked in the stomach. While the
fights with the bug-like creatures are effective, they only play out as
the first step to the battles within soon to come. I credit all
involved for keeping the tone where it needed to be in order for
success. This is an R-rated tale and it pulls no punches to that
effect. Whereas most films of this ilk would take a simple route out of
the carnage, we are allowed to watch all play out to its unavoidable
end. Maybe the finale is obvious, but evenso, it is stripped down to
the basic core of emotions. I knew it was coming yet it was still
devastating to experience. Fear makes us all do that which we think we
could never do and, if anything, The Mist is a cautionary tale to help
us remember that one crucial and unbending fact of life.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll start out by saying that I'm a Stephen King fan and thus I may
have some bias. I've watched many Steven King movies but have never
given one a rating this high. Most of his horror movies are in the 4-6
range with classics such as The Shawshank Redemption, The Shining, and
The Green Mile ranking 8-10 (although two of those aren't technically
horror movies). In most modern horror (like the Saw series) there is a
greater emphasis on gore than the horror of the human condition and
this movie, kudos to the actors, help weave a tale that disgusts you
inside and out without the pure reliance on blood spatter (although
granted there is a fair amount of that).

Thomas Jane (leading male and well known from The Punisher) has a
brilliant and emotional portrayal of his character in a mind-blowing
situation that we feel intimately associated with thanks to his acting
and great directing. Laurie Holden (of X-Files and Silent Hill fame)
has a more subdued performance but plays her role well and for any
X-Files nut (such as myself) it's fun to see her in another movie. The
cast is chock full of well known actors and some unknowns that really
see and express the writer and directors vision. It pays off: They
succeed in pulling you into a traumatic situation made worse with a
mixture of religious zealotry, military conspiracy, and small-town
ignorance that explodes in your face wondering if your humanity is
worse off facing The Mist or the human condition.

There is no spoiler here but I will say this about the ending: It's
what makes the movie and makes it so much better than most of the crap
put out there in horror land. Yes, yes, getting cut in half and having
limbs ripped-off is horrible. However it is the decisions we have to
make that concern those we love and respect that can really drive one
mad. The ending makes you look at yourself and wonder, if given the
same situation, what you would have to do with the information you have
available. It makes you think hard about your humanity and your soul
and about what is right or wrong in any given situation involving our
mortality.

I would suggest this movie to anyone that likes horror or science
fiction and wants something a little more intense than, say, Army of
Darkness (one of my personal favorites for totally different reasons).
This movie deals with serious issues we hear about daily. The mist is
just a piece of Science Fiction thrown in to bring out the best...and
worst in us.

Enjoy!!
<|_=00=_|>
Pop quiz. Tell me, what do you consider to be the most successful
Stephen King adaptation, made for film or television? "Carrie"? "The
Dead Zone"? "Salem's Lot"? "Stand By Me"? No! Not "Maximum Overdrive"!!
(And if that is your choice, may God forgive you, because I won't.)

All of the above, except "Maximium Overdrive" of course, are great
pieces of work. But my choice as the benchmark Stephen King adaptation
would probably be "The Shawshank Redemption", directed by Frank
Darabont.

Stephen King has been very good for Frank Darabont. "The Shawshank
Redemption" has become a modern classic and "The Green Mile" was nearly
as good. I am glad to say that "The Mist" is nearly as good again.

"The Mist" is a great film, perfectly structured, but a film that
requires patience. It is a film of the slow build and of a gradual
getting to know the characters, their obsessions, their fears and
prejudices. It was nice to see a King horror film where his great
talent of touching on the reality of a small town, has been exploited.
It makes it all the more horrific when all hell does break loose,
because the people who are getting hurt are ones that you know.

Thomas Jane is faintly wooden. Personally I would not have cast him,
but all of the other performances are top notch. Marcia Gay Harden's
possibly psychotic, fundamental Christian, Toby Jones' short, pudgy,
perfectly ordinary hero, Andre Braugher's uptight, big city lawyer and
William Sadler's scared, malleable blue collar worker. All excellent.

"The Mist" is not "The Shawshank Redemption" in one crucial way.
Whereas "The Shawshank Redemption" was about hope and life, "The Mist"
is about hopelessness and death. One thing that they have in common is
an astonishing ending. The ending of "The Mist" is wonderful, horrific,
twisted and shocking. Not anything that I saw coming.

"The Mist" is marvellous. Must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a Stephen King reader since I was about 8. I've read almost
everything the man has written. I'm also a HUGE Frank Darabont fan
after what he did with SHAWSHANK and GREEN MILE.

It takes a lot to scare me, but this movie really creeped me out. From
the moment The Mist rolls in over the lake toward the small town, I was
hooked. Thomas Jane is fantastic in this. In fact, the entire cast
knocks this one out of the park because of how realistically they play
each moment. Never once did I feel like I was watching acting on the
screen. Darabont sets a mood of realism with the hand held shots inside
the grocery store and the organic suspense that creates.

Darabont has added some elements not found in the King story, but each
one of them is spot on. Especially the end. It will leave you sitting
in your seat, awe struck.

I can't recommend this film more. The FX are outstanding by Greg
Nicotero and Cafe FX. The creatures are great, complex and frightening.
The Mist itself becomes a character.

The feeling of dread I got each time a character went into The Mist is
such a tribute to how wonderful and masterful this film is.

And finally, Marcia Gay Harden and Toby Jones. Harden's character is so
despicable I really began to hate her as the movie went on. But the
realism of what unfolds with her, and the group of people stuck in the
store, is so fantastic. And Toby Jones as Ollie was my second favorite
behind Jane's character. Jones looks like he would be the quiet type,
but he quickly becomes the audience favorite.

See this movie ASAP. And a special thanks again to Frank Darabont, Greg
Nicotero, AICN and the Alamo Drafthouse for bringing this awesome film
to Austin for us to see FIRST!!!!!
