
I saw "Shrek Forever After" on special screenings and I really hoped it
would live up to the first 2 films. But at the end of the day, it
wasn't as good or magical. I kind of felt disappointed because even
though the Third Installment was bad I was hoping they went back and
recognize their mistakes. But this movie does have its strong points,
it was quite funny and entertaining. There were moments in there that
felt like the first two films, and overall it is a very enjoyable ride
that even though it doesn't live quite up to the first two films. It is
worth your money just to have fun with it.

7.2/10 I'd recommend people to see this film, but don't go in it with
HIGH expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
After three films of diminishing quality, more than anything, Shrek
Forever After begs the obvious question: why? Unfortunately the answer
is also all too obvious with the franchise having grossed one billion
dollars domestically and oodles more overseas. For what it's worth,
this instalment is better than the last but fails to hold a candle to
Shrek 2 and pales to the point of apparition when compared to the
original.

The characters that populate the "Shrek" universe remain as endearing
as ever in principle, but after four movies there is little that can be
done to keep them animated, so to speak. That is why it comes as no
surprise that the plot of this film has the mythical land of Far Far
Away being turned on its head by the devious Rumplestiltskin, morphing
all familiarity into a bizzaro world of sort, and I'll admit, it does
add an iota of charm to the proceedings. Shrek (Mike Myers) finds
himself tired of family life with his ogre wife Fiona (Cameron Diaz)
and longs for his bachelor days of terrifying townsfolk and signs a
contract with 'Rumple' as he is less than affectionately called. Things
don't turn out nearly as he imagined and Shrek must fulfil a loophole
in the contract to turn things back to the way they were.

The original gang all return along with Shrek and Fiona. We have the
swashbuckling Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas), the chatty Donkey
(Eddie Murphy) and Julie Andrews and John Cleese as the Queen and King
respectively. There are also a number of celebrity voice cameos
including Larry King and Regis Philbin and all add up to a lively time
at the movies. In the movies defence, the lack of freshness never
translates to boredom.

The biggest issue with Shrek the Third was the weak attempt to inflate
the voice cast, making things more monotonous yet. DreamWorks has
clearly learned from this mistake and in addition to tweaking the
familiar character's personas in this alternate reality, find a decent
villain in Rumplestiltskin (Walt Dohrn) along with great comedians the
likes of Craig Robinson and Jane Lynch. The animation is as stellar as
ever and it never ceases to amaze how lifelike a film can look that has
a talking donkey at its center.

What makes this descendant of Shrek somewhat distinguishable is that it
presents itself more as homage then adhering to the spoof ideology that
characterized the others. Shrek Forever After is part Aladdin, part
Bedazzled and more than a sprinkle of It's a Wonderful Life. There are
also many more laughs in this film than the previous, and can often be
attributed to site gags sprung from the new universe (an obese Puss in
Boots provokes more than a few guffaws).

What everyone has to remember, first and foremost, is that the "Shrek"
franchise is meant for children and I don't believe any of the four
instalments could disappoint an eight year old. It is the accompanying
adults that need to be wary of the growing tedium in the franchise, but
thanks to a plethora of talented actors and a significantly more
satisfying storyline, Shrek Forever After makes for an entertaining
diversion, even if it's no longer magical.
<|_=00=_|>
When I found out that a fourth Shrek movie was being made, it made me
frown because it seemed pretty needless, especially that the last movie
was such a bore. But then again, if you take the storyline into
consideration, this becomes a fitting final chapter to formally close
the Shrek series. The movie is originally entitled SHREK FOREVER AFTER,
but in other regions of the world including ours, it is entitled SHREK:
THE FINAL CHAPTER, so it's obvious.

First we go to the more unpleasant aspects; this movie works more as a
fantasy-adventure movie rather than a comedy. That's because the humor
factor of Shrek has gone old already. This movie seems to squeeze the
very last drop of what is left of the Shrek series' dried out desert of
humor. Sure, it may make us give out a chuckle here, a chuckle there,
but this Shrek movie cannot make us laugh out loud anymore. When you
look back at its title "Shrek the Final Chapter" you would realize that
this movie does seem to apologize with the fact that this'll be the
last and probably an admission that they could not squeeze any more
decent thing out of the Shrek saga after this one; it's a final effort
to make one last buck.

On the other hand, Shrek's main story aspect is a little more
interesting than its humor. As I said earlier, this movie is better as
a fantasy adventure because we do get to see an alternate reality where
Shrek is back into being an outcast Ogre and everybody else who was
originally part of his circle of friends has not met him yet.
Eventually, they get into an adventure wherein he must face a new
enemy, a new problem, and he even gets to meet other ogres and an ogre
resistance army that pretty much reminded me of Warcraft (the
old-school Warcraft 2 to be exact). In this bizarro world, Donkey has
not met him, Puss has become obese, and Fiona is the leader of the Ogre
resistance. Shrek must go through this alternate universe and survive
it before the day passes and a curse will consume him for good. Shrek
gets to have some action with a horde of witches and must face the
dragon once again. I could not say that the action was impressive but
it has its little cool moments. I particularly loved the chain skull
weapons that the witches use.

In addition, this movie works also as a family domestic drama where it
maturely deals with the simple family issue of boredom and being sick
of how repetitious family life can be. I daresay that the film can work
as a satire or perhaps a metaphor that some married men can learn from.
There is one sequence in the movie that does capture this crisis; I am
talking about the scenes where we see Shrek realize that despite the
fact that he does live a happy life, it can get pretty dull and
annoying at times, but then again that's life.

Perhaps it becomes boring because many of us choose not to grow up;
many of us choose to not let go of what our past lives were. That is
what happens to Shrek in this movie. To escape the mediocrity of a
family life, he wishes to relive the moments when he was still just a
normal ogre again. And because of this, he puts his family life in
jeopardy. Shrek 4's tale comes full circle in the sense that it
questions if Shrek did have a "happily ever after" ending in the past
three movies, and puts one last fantastic circumstance to let him live
out a reality that this never happened.

And lastly, Shrek 4's main potential lies in its romance. With an
alternate reality story, Shrek faces a Fiona that has never met him.
Therefore, Shrek must find out some way to make Fiona fall in love with
him all over again. If you ask me, the romantic aspect of this movie is
as innovative as the first Shrek movie, in ways that it tells mature
subject matter in the guise of fantasy. The Fiona of the alternate
reality mirrors the plight of women who gave up on romance, and one
scene certainly negates the falsity of most fairy tales with a line
that goes something like: "a mere kiss does not solve everything" It
negates other fantasies like "Sleeping Beauty" or "Snow White" because
it destroys the superficial aspect of those obsolete fairy tales with a
more realistic approach, because indeed, a kiss is nothing if there is
no true love that goes with it. In my opinion, Shrek 4 succeeds in this
aspect.

Shrek may not be the best movie this summer, or it might not be the
funniest Shrek movie, but it certainly is one that is very rich
story-wise. Just as his line in the first movie went "I have layers"
and there certainly are deeper layers to this story rather than one
that will just make you laugh. Of course, this works out as a great
family movie, but it is certainly perfect for couples, most especially
married couples, and parents alike. I give SHREK FOREVER AFTER a.k.a.
SHREK: THE FINAL CHAPTER a Matin√©e rating for single serving; and a
Full Price rating for family servings.
<|_=00=_|>
On the day that Shrek rescued the cursed Princess Fiona from the tower
where she was kept prisoner of the dragon, her parents King Harold and
the Queen were ready to sign a contract with the cunning
Rumpelstiltskin delivering the kingdom Far Far Away to him. On the
present days, Shrek feels bored with Fiona, his family and friends and
near a breakdown, and he misses the years when he was a terrifying
ogre. Rumpelstiltskin overhears a discussion between Shrek and Fiona
and meets Shrek, offering a deal to make he feels a frightening ogre
again. In return, Shrek should deliver one day of his childhood to
Rumpelstiltskin. Shrek is lured and Far Far Away is distorted under the
reign of the tricky Rumpelstiltskin. Now Shrek misses his family and
friends and has to win Fiona's heart again to save Far Far Away, his
friends and himself. 

I have just watched "Shrek Forever After" and my expectations were very
low, based on the IMDb user's rating and a couple of reviews that I had
glanced. However I liked this underrated animation a lot, which has a
good story with many hilarious moments. Once again, Donkey "steals the
movie" and this character has been for years the best role of the
wasted Eddy Murphy. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Shrek para Sempre" ("Shrek Forever After")
<|_=00=_|>
Well it was bound to happen, most animation saga's or trilogy's end
eventually and some better than others. With Shrek Forever After this
is the case, still packed full of gags, funny moments and hilarious one
liners its a good end to a fun enjoyable franchise. We all hoped it
would also end this way, in a positive way as the last 11 years has
been Shrek sequels some better than others. With this final adventure,
old characters are reunited and new ones enter the fray.

Plus we also get a fresh new setting for this latest and final tale,
some good dialogue too and of course improved animation. Considering
this was always gonna go up against Toy Story 3, we knew it would be a
close fight for the throne of the summer blockbuster. Otherwise,
however Shrek Forever After has done a good job of grabbing it for me
until I see Toy Story 3, until then I believe this is the best
animation summer blockbuster of the year.

If you want quick gags, laughs and family fun Shrek Forever After is
for you and also for fans of the franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Shrek Forever After (and yes, that's the official title as seen in the
first real shot of the film) is a welcome return to form after the
disappointment of Shrek The Third, which LOOKED beautiful but hit all
the wrong notes. This one has recaptured the fun of the franchise while
potentially being the darkest one in terms of plot. Alternate universe
stories have been done to death, but the appealing nature of so many of
the characters makes this one work, as well as the fact that the
filmmakers are clearly trying to wrap up the story (which includes a
small bit of retconning at the beginning, but it pays off toward the
end). The 3D occasionally falls into the trap of throwing things
towards the audience, but the characters and sets are so beautifully
animated in all dimensions (the textures of Shrek and Donkey,
particularly, have improved even on the wonder that was Kung Fu Panda)
that the 3D actually adds to the enjoyment. The first two remain the
crown jewels of the franchise, but this is a worthy addition and a
suitable end to the... well, saga is too strong a word, so storyline
will have to do. And the bonus? Eddie Murphy gets to sing SEVERAL songs
WITHIN the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
It's not really cool to like Dreamworks Animation anymore. Sure,
they're not Pixar. Sure, they're too hung up on star power and pop
culture references. But I've still enjoyed the majority their films
more than I have a lot of what's out there. And I love the first two
"Shrek" movies. Their funny, entertaining, terrifically animated, and,
too me, some of the best animated love stories that have been made.
Most fairy tale romances perpetuate the idea that love is for beautiful
people (even the masterpiece "Beauty and the Beast" has it's cake and
eats it too on this point), and Princes and Princesses are better than
common people. "Shrek"'s idea of finding happiness in who you are was
much more palatable to me. i found the first film a delight, and the
second even better.

But the third was only okay. The humor wasn't nearly as clever or
funny, and the heart just wasn't there like it used to be. "Shrek
Forever After" isn't as good as those first two. But it's a big step
back in the right direction.

The story begins with Shrek getting used to being a father. He loves
Fiona and the kids, but he misses his old life as a menacing ogre. He's
seen more as a lovable tourist attraction now, and he doesn't like it.
So, he makes a deal with the mysterious Rumpletiltskin (surprisingly
NOT voiced by a name actor) to get one day back in his old life. In
exchange, he gives up one day from his past. A day from his childhood
that he doesn't even remember.

Unfortuntaely, that day turns out to be the day he was born, and this
leads to an "It's a Wonderful Life" scenario where Shrek doesn't know
Fiona, Donkey, Puss-in-Boots, or any of his friends, and
Rumplestiltskin rules the Kingdom with a tiny iron fist. The resulting
story is a great deal of fun, with Fiona now a warrior leading an ogre
rebellion, the Gingerbread Man fighting as a gladiator against Animal
Crackers, and so forth. The humor isn't back to it's highest heights,
but there are a good number of genuine laughs. And the heart is back
bigtime. I found "Shrek Forever After" surprisingly touching..

Okay, it's not as good as "Toy Story 3" is likely to be, nor is it as
good as "How to train your Dragon". but I had a blast with "Shrek
Forver After" and can't wait to take my niece and nephew
<|_=00=_|>
It's not really cool to like Dreamworks Animation anymore. Sure,
they're not Pixar. Sure, they're too hung up on star power and pop
culture references. But I've still enjoyed the majority their films
more than I have a lot of what's out there. And I love the first two
"Shrek" movies. Their funny, entertaining, terrifically animated, and,
too me, some of the best animated love stories that have been made.
Most fairy tale romances perpetuate the idea that love is for beautiful
people (even the masterpiece "Beauty and the Beast" has it's cake and
eats it too on this point), and Princes and Princesses are better than
common people. "Shrek"'s idea of finding happiness in who you are was
much more palatable to me. i found the first film a delight, and the
second even better.

But the third was only okay. The humor wasn't nearly as clever or
funny, and the heart just wasn't there like it used to be. "Shrek
Forever After" isn't as good as those first two. But it's a big step
back in the right direction.

The story begins with Shrek getting used to being a father. He loves
Fiona and the kids, but he misses his old life as a menacing ogre. He's
seen more as a lovable tourist attraction now, and he doesn't like it.
So, he makes a deal with the mysterious Rumpletiltskin (surprisingly
NOT voiced by a name actor) to get one day back in his old life. In
exchange, he gives up one day from his past. A day from his childhood
that he doesn't even remember.

Unfortuntaely, that day turns out to be the day he was born, and this
leads to an "It's a Wonderful Life" scenario where Shrek doesn't know
Fiona, Donkey, Puss-in-Boots, or any of his friends, and
Rumplestiltskin rules the Kingdom with a tiny iron fist. The resulting
story is a great deal of fun, with Fiona now a warrior leading an ogre
rebellion, the Gingerbread Man fighting as a gladiator against Animal
Crackers, and so forth. The humor isn't back to it's highest heights,
but there are a good number of genuine laughs. And the heart is back
bigtime. I found "Shrek Forever After" surprisingly touching..

Okay, it's not as good as "Toy Story 3" is likely to be, nor is it as
good as "How to train your Dragon". but I had a blast with "Shrek
Forver After" Evren Buyruk
<|_=00=_|>
Almost a decade ago, the film Shrek left many people amazed (including
me) with its extraordinary animation and a hilarious parody of some
famous fairy-tales (specially the Disney interpretations of them),
without neglecting the creation of memorable characters and honest
emotions.Shrek 2 was also excellent, but it was a bit below the level
from the first film.Then, in 2007, Shrek the Third was a desperate
attempt to have the magic from the first two films; the result was
mediocre, and a big declination from the first two films.Now, we have
Shrek Forever After, and even though it is far from reaching the level
from Shrek 1 and 2, it kept me entertained, and I think it represents
an improvement on the third film.

What I mostly liked from Shrek Forever After is that screenwriters Josh
Klausner and Darren Lemke followed the evolution from Shrek in a
natural way.In the first film, we saw the change in Shrek's life when
he first fell in love; in the second one, he had to face the
responsibilities from adult life; in the third one, he faced the
insecurities of the paternity; and now, the ogre feels overwhelmed by
the family routine and he misses the liberty from his youth, which is a
subject that is a bit more mature to what we are accustomed to see on
an animated film.

However, I found various fails in Shrek Forever After, specially in the
fact that the screenplay is not very ingenious.Its handling of the
humor keeps being based on songs, characters and events from popular
culture, but that does not feel as fresh and irreverent as it had felt
on the first Shrek; in fact it feels a bit tiring now, because of the
large number of animated films which have used that strategy.However,
there are good moments of humor in the interaction between the
characters; I particularly liked the character of Puss in Boots; most
of the laughs I had while watching this movie came from that
character.Good work, Antonio Banderas.Unfortunately, I cannot say the
same about Eddie Murphy, one of my favorite comedians, whose
contribution to the other movies had been among the best elements from
them.However, I felt his voice acting in Shrek Forever After to be
forced and listless.The rest of the cast made a decent work, but nobody
particularly stood out.

But the whole experience from Shrek Forever After is not highly
memorable, and one of the best things I can say about it is that it
avoided to fall into some irritating mistakes from the third film (even
though that does not exempt it to have its own fails).However, I think
I can recommend Shrek Forever After because it kept me
entertained...however, it is very far away from reaching the magic from
the first two films.
<|_=00=_|>
The final chapter in the SHREK series recalls that familiar term "Be
careful what you with for". I too was careful at what I wished SHREK
FOREVER AFTER would be. After the disappointing SHREK THE THIRD, the
bar isn't set high for this supposedly final chapter. It's never going
to compare with the superior first two, but if Dreamworks Animation
really wanted to conclude their beloved property with this, they might
as well give it all that it has. SHREK FOREVER AFTER, while certainly
more elaborate than its immediate predecessor, is not the most original
of the series, but if this is really a happily ever after for Shrek, at
least he went out on a good note rather than a disappointing one.

The story is basically IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE with Shrek (voiced by Mike
Myers) trading places with George Bailey. Shrek's life couldn't be
better: he has his loving wife Fiona (voiced by Cameron Diaz) and three
kids, best buddies Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and Puss (Antonio Banderas)
are current visitors, he's got his swamp back, and above all his days
as the flesh-eating ogre are way behind him. But everyday of the same
day-to-day rituals can get too routine for our big green ogre. If only
he could wish he could be that flesh-eating ogre again! His wish is
granted when he meets the crafty Rumpelstiltskin (voiced by Walt
Dohrn), but it at a terrible catch. Before you can say "Happily Ever
After no more!", Shrek is trapped in a depressing alternate universe
where he was never born and none of his pals know who he is.

The real treat of the premise of FOREVER AFTER is that it gives us a
chance to warm up with these characters again and recall why we loved
them in the first place, and then find out a few new reasons to like
them all over again. We already know these characters and we have met
them before, and this might just serve as a reunion after the
occasional slog of the previous follow-up. Unlike its immediate
predecessor as well, this one actual has a storyline instead of the
simple premise to be used to hang pop culture reference and in-jokes.
It's not a great storyline and certainly not anything original, but
it's a step on the right direction. Director Mike Mitchell has at least
put Shrek right back on track, and not a moment too soon. If this is
really the series' finale, the creators have at least done a credible
job at reminding us of the appeal that these characters. In a way,
SHREK FOREVER AFTER is a satisfying conclusion, if not a grand one.

Rating: ***1/2 out of 5.
