
Animation movies are all about the feel.Epic is a movie where the feel
while watching the movie is brilliant.The level of detail that has gone
into each frame in creating this world is mind boggling.The result is
an aesthetically pleasing experience that deserves applause.The
characters are all likable and well imagined.The snails are funny.I
especially loved Mary Katherine,endearing and innocent.The 3-D is
decent and the background score good.The overall experience is
enjoyable.

Kids will love this one!If you are an adult,just let out the child in
you and have fun :).
<|_=00=_|>
Epic is about a smart, spirited, and headstrong 17 year-old, teenager
named Mary Katherine "M.K." who, after the death of her mother, moves
back to live with her estranged father, Professor Bomba, along with her
pet dog, Ozzy. Bomba has long studied a group of warriors who live in
the forest and protect it as guardians of good. He often will go into
the forest and survey them. She, like every other human in the movie,
doesn't believe in all the stuff her father has devoted particularly
his life to. She loses patience with him and his stories and their
reunion is all but a disaster. One day, the professor does not return
from a hike in the forest, so Mary Katherine sets out to look for him.
Hours later, she comes upon a group of glowing, falling leaves.
Catching one of them, she is suddenly shrunken down. In her minuscule
state, she discovers the group of warriors Prof. Bomba has studied, who
are known as the Leaf-Men. When she is forced to reside with the
Leaf-Men, she gains a new perspective and developed friendships with
everyone in the forest. To find her way home, M.K. must do than believe
in this world; she'll help to save it from the Boggans and their
ruthless, villainous leader Mandrake. This is a story about betrayal,
sacrifice, friendship, love, bravery, courage, and caring for something
else rather than yourself.

The acting is really superb and all the actors have great chemistry
together: Amanda Seyfried, Josh Hutcherson, Christoph Waltz, Colin
Farrell, Aziz Ansari, and Jason Sudekis are terrific, while Beyonc√© is
the best of all. She is a real acting triumph in the film, and her
performance is so critical in the film, as Queen Tara will do anything
to ensure the safety of the forest and the lives of her friends, and
that she leaves M.K. a very important mission to do her behalf when she
couldn't. She brings a lot of integrity, passion, and heart to her role
and helps carry the film with spectacular grace.

There's a lot to love about the film, including its production design,
visual artistry, and the 3D, which are as dazzling, grand, spectacular,
and innovative as, say, Avatar. The 3D is really worth the price of
admission; the film features strong emotional depth and an immersive
experience that can be greatly experienced in 3D, and the animation, in
particular, is terrifically phenomenal and realistic. Danny Elfman did
a very good job with the music score as he captured the spirit,
excitement, essence, and heart of the film.

With the script written by William Joyce, James V. Hart (Hook, August
Rush), Tom J. Astle and Matt Ember (Get Smart), and Daniel Shere, the
story's narrative was famillar to other films, but so was Cloudy with a
Chance of Meatballs, How to Train Your Dragon, Hotel Transylvania, and
The Croods, and yet, it was cleverly written that it stands out on its
own from other films so there's nothing to worry about. They, along
with Chris Wedge and the story artists, have aggressively expanded
William Joyce's original story by giving it fantastical mythologies
about the forest, more development on the characters, and the
supplementing the action-adventure genre in the story as Wedge
envisioned. I liked the fact that Joyce worked on the script, because
when you have a small story that was expanded to be more ambitious and
dramatic, then it's best to have input from Joyce as he included a lot
of cool and interesting plot points in the film.

For instance, Joyce modeled Mary Katherine (M.K.) very much after his
own daughter; she, unfortunately, died from a brain tumor in 2010 and
it was a very personal and devastating loss for him. I truly wish that
this movie should've been dedicated to her memory, as it would mean
much to her family and friends. She would've been very proud of the
movie, her father's work on the film, and the main character in the
film, Mary Katherine (M.K.).

Wedge's direction triumphed the most in the film. He came a long way
from his beginnings and he wanted to make the film something special.
He wanted to make this as an action-adventure epic on the scale of
Ben-Hur, Star Wars, Gladiator, and the Lord of the Rings trilogy, and
he succeeds it. He doesn't intend it to be cute and I'm grateful that
it wasn't; previous action-adventure animated films Titan A.E. and
Atlantis had intense situations with childlike supporting characters,
thus leaving the films with a poorly identified targeted audience about
what's a film's targeted audience and this was not the case for Epic. I
liked how he handed with both the characters and actors, and his
direction is ingenious and visionary. He can really handle big
ambitious epic films with ingenious storytelling on this scale, even if
it's an animated film. The epic spectacle is never at the expanse of
the story, characters, and the heart of the story.

Epic goes to prove to people that animated films can also really handle
the action-adventure genre as much as live-action films do, just like
how Peter Pan, Sleeping Beauty, Akira, Atlantis: The Lost Empire, The
Incredibles, and Kung Fu Panda trilogy did. With this film, Blue Sky
Studios wanted to prove everyone that they can do so much more than pop
culture references, cheap jokes, and unimaginative storytelling.
They've not only exceeded that, they surpassed it and beyond. With this
film, this is a promising launch of the new Blue Sky Studios, which has
declared war on DreamWorks, Disney Animation, and Pixar.

You will be laughing, astonished, amazed, blown away, and inspired,
because Epic truly stands out as one of the most surprising film
experiences of the year, and could be one of the best films of the
year.
<|_=00=_|>
This is without a doubt the most fantastic visual animation I've ever
seen. It brought to mind i) nature scenes on Pandora in "Avatar", ii)
lush vegetation jungle scenes from "Up!", iii) the whole valley turning
green at the end of "Princess Mononoke", and iv) the infinitely graded
colors in "Oz the Great and Powerful". (I watched it in 2D, and don't
know what 3D is like.)

But visually it outstrips all of those. The plants are real ones we're
familiar with (not imagined ones); scenes are incredibly detailed (not
one fern but tens of them, not one blossom but hundreds); biological
growth and decay is of individual plants seen up close (not a very long
shot across a whole valley); and all the vibrant yet subtle colors
appear in nature (not a fantasy world). Vegetation unfurls and extends
as we watch, and it all seems perfectly realistic and believable. We
see the whole process of burls developing on live trees in just a few
seconds over and over. We see growth meristems probing for the best
direction and expanding little by little. And we see the slight shifts
in color that signal the beginning of more decay or more growth.

All the animation effects technology has already conquered --fur,
musculature, waves, droplets, rain, crowds, flying, moving cameras,
etc. etc.-- are also deployed virtuosic-ally in the places the
storyline calls for them. From my aged (about 60) perspective, it seems
suitable and enjoyable for all ages (although it's rated PG) ...and not
because adults will see a different film as they understand the more
salacious meaning of double entendres - there aren't any. There isn't
any notable music nor abstract visual patterns nor references to fairy
tales either, other things frequently associated with animations.

The story is decent too. It's a seamless melding of realities (such as
a brusque taxi driver) with fantasy (tiny beings riding hummingbirds?).
It proceeds organically, eventually incorporating pretty much
everything that happened earlier (even things that appeared to be
already completed or even unrelated). The typical joke is mostly
visual, developing slowly over many seconds - no one-liners here. There
are not a lot of the ironic jokes that have been prominent in many
recent animations. (In fact this movie is often relegated to "kids
film" or "family film", which makes me feel a little silly for enjoying
it.) The ending is positive but not saccharine -- there's resolution
...but not of everything.

Comic relief is provided by a tag team of a snail and a slug. A typical
gag is something about "eyes inside your head" or "everybody hide in
your shell" (slugs of course don't have shells). I found it adequately
funny (but not laugh out loud funny). Humor is a very personal thing
though, and I suspect some of the more "with it" young adults will find
it painfully unfunny. 

The flights, the fights, the falls are gripping. This is edge of your
seat stuff. And the tiny perspective casts familiar things in a new
light: a mouse becomes a threatening giant, and a looming doggie kiss
would mean serious injury or even death. Pick a theater with a really
big screen and a newish projector, and sit toward the front. And if
you're an animation aficionado plan to attend more than once. Also, sit
through the end credits, as the level of detail and imagination in the
background visuals --often throwaways or repeats, but not here-- is
astounding.
<|_=00=_|>
My third film for this Memorial Day weekend takes me out of the rated R
woods and into one that is more magical and kid friendly. No I'm not on
drugs, I'm talking about the movie Epic, Blue Sky Studios (BSS) latest
animated installment. I'll admit that seeing the trailers last summer
got me stoked at the potential for comedy, action, and a heartwarming
tale. Yet like many movies I feared that I would be disappointed by the
final product. What was the verdict? Read on to find out.

As the trailers promised, the world of Epic is a beautiful creation of
art, computer graphics, and attention to detail. The animators at BSS
do their homework when it comes to creating their worlds/characters,
managing to capture the natural grooves, curves, and texture of
nature's beauty. From the lines in the various leaves to the warped and
horrific dimensions of rot, Epic's visuals are indeed some of the
finest I've seen in a while. They don't stop there however, as the team
took another step up to develop their creatures of fantasy. The
denizens of the hidden world in the forest impressed me, as a beautiful
blend of human anatomy and environment melded into a combination that I
could only dream of. Of course like many movies, there was plenty of
cookie cutting going on, especially in scenes where there were mass
congregations or when the enemy swarmed the scene. Despite this minor
flaw though, Epic's world is clever, bold, and magical.

Yet visuals probably isn't the main reason most will be seeing this
movie is it? Many people may be going to take a young family
member/friend to see a fun adventure. If that is the case, Epic is your
movie of choice as the children in my theater were dazzled by what the
movie had to offer. The comedy styles of Mub (Aziz Ansari) and Grub
(Chris O'Dowd) might have been the most entertaining factor for the
audience. Both Ansari and O'Dowd throw their two cents into the fray,
one thinking he is a player, while the other wants to be a knight. Yet
both are goofballs doing odd tricks, making silly faces, and performing
mannerisms that the young and young at heart will love. Their voices
matched the characters incredibly well for me, both giving the lines
the perfect punch to leave me in stitches. Of course the other
characters have some one hit wonders when it comes to making people
laugh. A three legged dog, a clumsy professor and even Nod (Josh
Hutcherson) have a few moments that are quite amusing. 

Aside from two wisecracking slugs what else might grab the audience's
attention? I would have to say the action/adventure of the movie was
the next big factor. I can't lie it didn't meet my expectations, but
then again it is a kids movie. Instead of the Lord of the Rings like
battles, most of the fighting was limited to well-placed arrow shots, a
few punches, and a couple of sword slashes. Again the younger audience
will mostly think it was awesome, but don't get your hopes too high.
When Nod or Ronin (Colin Farrell) fly birds is where the real
excitement comes into play. Like a mad roller coaster ride, the
audience gets to watch the majestic dance unfold as the airborne steeds
navigate through nature's obstacles whilst their riders flip
acrobatically to avoid danger. Overall the violence has been brought to
a bare minimum, and parents won't have to worry about their kids acting
out a beheading scene. Amidst the excitement though is a bit of sadness
as well. For me I foresaw many things coming, but younger audience
members might get a little upset at some of the sadder scenes in this
movie. Some scenes even scared a few of the younger audience members,
particularly those that involved the loud roars and creature popping
out of the ground, so again be cautious when taking them. 

Despite how much of this is geared towards kids though, there are still
a few thing BSS did to entertain the adult audience. Mub's jokes have
some adult humor in it, which will surely get some laughs, though not
as many as Donkey from Shrek. Unlike most kid movies, Epic does a good
job avoiding the annoying characters and keeping things in balance to
avoid making parents want to slam their heads into the seat. However,
it is inevitable for some lines to get ingrained into the minds of the
kids, so expect some endless quotes to follow you home. The thing I
found most adults will mainly love is some of the heartwarming moments
in this movie. I'm not talking about a budding romance that we saw in
Ferngully, but instead is more about reuniting and self-discovery
amidst a chaotic world. Now you might find it cheesy, but for me I
found it to be well done, and something I could experience in the real
world, minus the fairies and small creatures. Yeah some of the dialog
was a bit too forced, but not bad overall. 

As for the voice acting, I think that it was a great cast to pick and
that the characters represented a lot of images their actors portray in
other media. Hutchinson is na√Øve, youthful, and rebellious, Pit-bull
has the persona of a big boss toad who likes to run the show, and
Beyonc√© has a side that is caring and nurturing. Regardless, Epic has a
lot of positives that I think will wow and amaze kids. The "exciting"
battles, the lovable characters, and the cute comedy are certain to
entertain a lot of people, but Epic still needed some fine tuning
before coming out. My scores are below: Animation/Adventure/Family: 8.0
Movie Overall: 6.5-7.0
<|_=00=_|>
My Rating: ***1/2 (out of ****)

The way things a currently looking, this might very well not be a Pixar
year. A much as I might enjoy Monsters University and possibly Planes,
they may very well not be my favorite animated films of the year, and
they probably won't be. The Croods is already my favorite animated film
of the year, and this movie, Epic, in my opinion, is also pretty good.

The main protagonist of the film is Mary Katherine, or M. K., a likable
(and cute) teenage girl who, after her mother's death, goes to live
with her eccentric and reclusive father. Her father believes that there
is a miniature world of magical little people and creatures that live
in the forest, and of course other people, including M. K., don't
believe him. However, she soon magically shrunken and discovers this
little world, which she must save.

And so on. I admit, the movie is not very epic; it is a bit generic and
has just about every clich√© possible: good vs. evil, balance of nature,
dysfunctional parent/child relationship, etc etc. The film resembles a
number of other films, such as FernGully, Avatar, and Honey I Shrunk
the Kids, among others. One of the main characters, the Nod, even
resembles Flynn Rider from Tangled pretty strongly (but this wasn't a
problem for me). However, I disagree with everyone who is calling it
charmless, forgettable, too reliant on visuals, and weak in terms of
character, plot, heart, etc. That's right, I actually enjoyed it.

I actually thought the movie was handled fairly well and has a decent,
solid, enjoyable, well- paced plot. The film started out a bit slow,
but I started to get more interested as trouble started brewing in the
miniature forest world and then M. K. gets shrunken; from then on the
movie was much better, and I got interested and emotionally involved in
the story. The film also has likable characters and relationships, and
good voice performances by Amanda Seyfried, Josh Hutcherson, Colin
Farrell, Beyonce Knowles, and the rest of the cast. It even had some
good humorous parts, including a pair of mollusks and a three-legged
dog.

The best part of the film is the animation; dazzling, lively,
meticulously detailed, and it helps bring everything to life. Like
Avatar, this movie has what I found to be an interesting, immersing,
well-designed setting. Also, like Avatar, it has a good, strong
ecological message, which I appreciate. It also has heart, charm, and
genuine emotion, and additional good moral messages such as friendship,
love, bravery, and selflessness.

Bottom line: If you ask me, Epic is hardly epic, but it's good. And it
was especially enjoyable for me on the big screen. Kids will certainly
love it; and if you are an adult, like me, just let out your inner
child and enjoy the film.

For more reviews, visit my review blog:
http://robertsreliablereviews.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
The pretty standard stuff of elfish lore, where magical faerie folk
protect the woods and the life enclosed inside. Led by the Queen Tara (
voiced in English-language version by Beyonc√© Knowles) the minuscule
forest inhabitants guard the essence of creation from the destructive
appetite of the agents of blight - creatures called Boggans - and their
malevolent leader, Mandrake (Christoph Waltz). These forces of good are
led by the seasoned warrior Ronin (Colin Farrell), who together with
his elven battalion mount hummingbird steeds. His special prot√©g√© is
independent-minded brash Nod (Josh Hutcherson), who disregards
structure and rules. However, each faerie Leafman must become a part of
a bigger tree, in order for the forest to survive. Especially now, when
a rare astronomical occurrence brings about the necessity to name a new
queen, chosen through the use of a magical bud. This ceremony is
disrupted by the onslaught of Mandrake's forces. Meanwhile a somewhat
crazed and estranged Professor Bomba (Jason Sudeikis) seeks proof of
little green forest men residing in the woods, much to the distraught
of his only daughter Mary Katherine (or as she prefers to be known
M.K.) (Amanda Seyfried), who moves in grieving after the death of her
mother.

What can I say say? I love me some faeries and the magical allure of
nature. Here "Epic" delivers with aplomb the visual feasts of an
enchanted forest coupled with ages-old tales of combat between good and
evil - or as portrayed here as a conflict between life and decay. The
obvious flaw to be pointed out is the generic and predictable
storyline, which delivers essentially what was to be expected, failing
to really instill any sense of novelty. With some well-placed humour,
thankfully low on the adult kind and more focused on family laughs,
"Epic" does however deliver on its base promise: offering entertainment
for both adults and children. Visually appeasing with some engaging
story lines, apt for parents or simply for adults looking for a good
time, are sure to be satisfied by the magical light-hearted tones, just
perfect for disassociating yourselves from the mundanity of everyday
life.

Some fault can also be found in a somewhat underwhelming formation of
characters, mostly feeling like poorly fleshed out cardboard cutouts
with only the touching relationship between father and daughter really
hitting home. Some of the secondary characters are just poorly
conceived comedic relief (like the slug and the snail), while the
overall story seems somewhat overloaded given the running time.
Especially the character of Nod seems to be a missed concept, as he
fails to have enough structure to really develop any relationship with
either Ronin or M.K., thus adding a certain sense of superfluousity to
his role in the movie. Nonetheless, the underlying weaknesses fail to
prove detrimental from family viewing, making it a rewatchable feast
for the eyes and imagination, without ever truly hitting classic
animation territory.
<|_=00=_|>
8/10 stars

After being bombarded with previews and advertisements, my daughter was
pretty fired-up to go see Epic. Being a good dad I brought out the
whole family and prepared to settle in for a holiday weekend nap.

I mean, c'mon. There is a bit of a glut in family animated fare these
days anyway, and this one had all the markings of every tedious clich√©
in the book. Kooky, aloof clueless dad, family loss and grief, the
wonderment of nature, good vs evil, being magically transported into a
strange fantastical world, yada yada. Imagine taking Alice in
Wonderland, the Guardians, Lord of the Rings and Avatar; throw them
into a blender and throw the results on the screen. So naturally, a
middle-aged dad can only lean back in air conditioned comfort and look
forward to blissful slumber.

But alas, the slumber never came. I really enjoyed this movie. I don't
know if I was captivated by the beautiful animation, or the well-paced
story, or the comic relief of the snails and the slobbering dog, or all
of the above, but I recommend this movie as terrific family fare.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't think I'd like this movie, but I took my 10-year-old cousin to
see it anyway, and I really loved it.

I've heard this film compared to everything--FernGully, The Borrowers,
Avatar, etc., and while it is another film in that genre and it may be
a little clich√©, it does create its own fascinating world and tell its
story in a unique way. Its themes are heavy (family and belonging, the
balance between growth and decay/life and death) but are handled in a
successfully child-friendly manner.

The animation and design are gorgeous. I love the cute fairy-like
flower and leaf people; I even love the design of the goblin-like bad
guys (the Boggan). I want to see more stories set in this incredible
little world. I also appreciate how much care went into animating that
forest.

While the characters are pretty familiar, they're still delightful. I
thought the choice of voice actors was particularly good. I liked
Amanda Seyfried as the main character, M.K. (Mary Katherine), I
looooved Colin Farrell as Ronin, and I have to say, I was really
pleasantly surprised by Beyonce as Queen Tara. She has a voice just
like honey, which fits the queen's sweet, playful personality. Queen
Tara emerges as one of my favorite animated characters of all time (and
NO, I do not find her voice "too ghetto." I don't appreciate people
sniffing down their noses at others that way) because she carried so
much of the movie with what turned out to be really minimal role. Plus,
I always love to see people of color portrayed positively in children's
films.

I would definitely take kids to see this again, although it might be
too scary for kids younger than 6 and too slow for kids older than 12.
Folks have to admit, this is a fun movie to watch, and highly
imaginative kids especially will love it.
<|_=00=_|>
The teenager Mary "MK" Katherine returns to the house of her estranged
father Professor Bomba, who is a widower scientist obsessed to find
tiny creatures that he believes that would live in the forest. MK does
not accept the lack of attention of her father with her and decides to
leave him again. However the creatures do exist and protect the forest
against the evil Boggans and their leader Mandrake that wish to destroy
the forest.

Near the solstice, Queen Tara chooses a pod to inherit her healing
powers, protected by the Leaf-Men and their leader Ronin. However, they
are surprised by an attack of Mandrake and the Boggans and Queen Tara
is deadly wounded by Mandrake. 

Meanwhile, MK is leaving home and she looks for her three-leg dog Ozzy
that has ran to the forest. She finds Queen Tara dying and she shrinks
MK with her powers and gives the pod to her. Further Queen Tara asks MK
to take the pod to Nim Galuu. When Ronin meets them, he decides to
bring MK and the pod to Nim Galuu, with the protection of the young
Leaf-Man Nod and the slugs Mub and Grub. Along the dangerous journey,
they are chased by Mandrake that wants to bloom the pod in darkness to
destroy the forest.

"Epic" is a delightful animation with a story of a fight between the
good, represented by tiny creatures that protect the forest and
environment, against the evil Boggans that want to destroy the forest.
The plot has a beautiful message and is a wonderful family
entertainment. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Reino Escondido" ("Hidden Kingdom")
<|_=00=_|>
Interesting to call this movie "Epic" because while it is cute and the
animation is good, it didn't strike me as epic. Brave was more of an
epic story, but I digress.

I enjoyed watching it on the big screen (but then I enjoy watching all
movies on the big screen). The one thing that stood out like a very
sore thumb was the awful voice casting of Beyonce. This woman may be
able to sing and dance but, for me, her voice for the queen part
actually took away from the movie. Why? Because I was hearing Beyonce
talking and not the character. For the most part, she had no proper
emotion in her tone and it appeared silly to me. When you are doing a
voice-over for an animated character, you need to speak differently
than you usually do or it sounds silly. I was so glad when the queen
was snuffed out early on. The other character voices were right on
because I didn't hear the actor as much as I heard and saw the
character. That's the sign of a good voice-over, imo.

As far as the storyline goes, it was pretty good and the ending queen
choice was neat, especially since the little "girl" had asked if she
could be queen. I liked that. Loved the snail and slug, some of their
lines were very funny. AND some of their lines could be missed if you
were not paying close attention.

So, based on my review of Gatsby, I have to say again...stop giving
into the big music money and leave Beyonce, et al, to the music
industry...please. OR teach them how not to be so distracting in a
movie.
