
I saw the movie yesterday and was shocked by it, but even more shocked
by some of the comments I have read here. One person wrote that it was
ambiguous if the victim of the torture was guilty or not--therefore...
One person wrote that since he wasn't an American citizen, therefore...
Some people comment that the people in the Middle East hate us and want
us dead, therefore... So are we saying then that it is right to torture
someone who is guilty of a crime? Are we saying it is right to torture
someone who is not an American Citizen? Are we saying that it is right
to torture someone who may hate us and want us dead? Are we saying
that, as is written in the Geneva Convention, the Declaration of Human
Rights and the Constitution of the United States that "torture is
wrong, but some torture is less wrong than others?" When does it become
"right" to torture? THAT is why this movie is powerful-- it is
ambiguous, but not about torture. Torture is always wrong, and if we
are willing to do it, even in the name of justice and "National
Security" or "freedom and democracy" then we are wrong and we are evil;
we are doing exactly what we are accusing our enemies of doing (and we
are calling them "wrong" in the same breath.) My favorite line in the
film was "if you don't want to compromise join Amnesty International."
Right on.
<|_=00=_|>
Rendition presents a very topical matter in the form of a very tense
thriller. It's a gripping, and not a preaching, movie. Seeing it in an
Arab country with a mixture of Arabian and European audience gave it an
extra level of atmosphere. The audience was totally gripped by the film
and gave it a loud applause afterwards. The story of an Egyptian,
married to an American, picked up on the suspicion of links to
terrorist organizations and shipped to a friendly (with US) Arab
country for "enhanced interrogation (as Meryl Streep's character states
in the film: "we have no torture in the US") seems to be from the front
page of todays news. There is a very neat link between the various
characters which appear in the movie and the pace of the film never
drops. The movies'message seems to be (as stated by Jake Gyllenhal's
character in the film) that by abducting and torturing suspects you
create many more terrorists. The acting is uniformly excellent with
Streep and Reese Witherspoon the stand outs. Not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine you have just been on a plane for 18 hours. You have been on a
business trip to South Africa. You are a high-paid professional. You've
lived in the US for 20 years. You are in your thirties, you have a wife
a little boy and another baby on the way. One thing, even though you
have a green card, you are still Egyptian. On transit you are asked to
come with 2 security guards, next thing you know you are overpowered,
hooded and chained and after a brief ( but still reasonably civil)
interrogation you are to be rendered! This is what happens to Anwar el
Ibrahimi at the beginning of the movie. His is a story of pain and (
literally )torture. It's one of several story lines. One follows his
wife's attempts to get more information. One follows the (cold)
bureaucrats behind the rendition. Another story deals with the family
of the man who leads the interrogation of Anwar el Ibrahimi. There are
some other stories too and by the end they all neatly come together.
Though the more famous actors like Reese Witherspoon ( as the
distraught pregnant wife ) Jake Gyllenhaal ( as the CIA rookie forced
to watch the interrogation in Northern Africa) and Meryl Streep ( as
CIA hotshot Corine Whitman) it is really the more unknown actors that
carry the story and give it it's heart. For me the actor playing the
unfortunate Mr El Ibrahimi ( Omar Metwally ) was the heart and soul of
this movie. His portrayal of a man in distress was shockingly well
done. It's almost as if he was being tortured for real! Also Israeli
actor Yigal Naor was very impressive as the part worried family-man and
part extremely cruel chief of torture. Hard to watch and not exactly
fun, but still very worthwhile.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this was the most outstanding edge-of-your-seat thriller that I
have seen in a long time. The research for the film was thorough, the
writer Kelly Sane has left no loose ends. The cast was seasoned
(fantastic performances all round). Omar Metwally was outstanding.

The cinematography is poetic, music enchanting and the overall effect
highly satisfying.

Rendition goes into territory that even the media fears to tread. It is
really a wakeup call for those involved with espionage and the legal
web that is the "War on Terror". 

A woman walked out of the theater and asked me "does this really
happen"? That in itself speaks of Gavin Hood's masterful achievement.
<|_=00=_|>
In this day and age in which just about every other news story involves
discussions of waterboarding, images of Abu Ghraib, or tales of forced
detentions at Guantanamo Bay, Gavin Hood's "Rendition" is about as
up-to-the-minute and timely a movie as is ever likely to come out of
the entertainment mills of mainstream Hollywood. It's not, by any
stretch of the imagination, a perfect film, but neither does it merit
the caterwauling opprobrium it has received at the hands of critics
from all across the ideological and political spectrum.

The term "rendition" refers to the ability of the CIA to arrest any
individuals it suspects of terrorist dealings, then to whisk them away
in secret to a foreign country to interrogate and torture them for an
indefinite period of time, all without due process of law. Anwar
El-Ibrahimi is an Egyptian man who has been living for twenty years in
the United States. He has an American wife, a young son and a new baby
on the way. He seems a very unlikely candidate for a terrorist, yet one
day, without warning or explanation, Anwar is seized and taken to an
undisclosed location where he is subjected to brutal torture until he
admits his involvement with a terrorist organization that Anwar claims
to know nothing about.

On the negative side, "Rendition" falters occasionally in its
storytelling abilities, often biting off a little more than it can chew
in terms of both plot and character. The ostensible focal point is
Douglas Freeman, a rookie CIA agent who is brought in to observe
Anwar's "interrogation" at the hands of Egyptian officials. The problem
is that, as conceived by writer Kelley Sane and enacted by Jake
Gyllenhaal, Freeman seems too much of a na√Øve "boy scout" to make for a
very plausible agent, and he isn't given the screen time he needs to
develop fully as a character. We know little about him at the beginning
and even less, it seems, at the end. He "goes through the motions," but
we learn precious little about the man within. Thus, without a strong
center of gravity to hold it all together, the film occasionally feels
as if it is coming apart at the seams, with story elements flying off
in all directions. A similar problem occurs with Anwar's distraught
wife, played by Reese Witherspoon, a woman we never get to know much
about apart from what we can see on the surface. Gyllenhaal and
Witherspoon have both proved themselves to be fine actors under other
circumstances, but here they are hemmed in by a restrictive screenplay
that rarely lets them go beyond a single recurring note in their
performances.

What makes "Rendition" an ultimately powerful film, however, is the
extreme seriousness of the subject matter and the way in which two
concurrently running plot lines elegantly dovetail into one another in
the movie's closing stretches. It may make for a slightly more
contrived story than perhaps we might have liked on this subject, but,
hey, this is Hollywood after all, and the film has to pay SOME
deference to mass audience expectations if it is to get itself green
lighted, let alone see the light of day as a completed project.

Two of the supporting performances are particularly compelling in the
film: Omar Metwally who makes palpable the terror of a man caught in a
real life Kafkaesque nightmare from which he cannot awaken, and Yigal
Naor who makes a surprisingly complex character out of the chief
interrogator/torturer. Meryl Streep, Alan Arkin and Peter Sarsgaard
also make their marks in smaller roles. Special mention should also be
made of the warm and richly hued cinematography of Dion Beebe.

Does the movie oversimplify the issues? Probably. Does it stack the
deck in favor of the torture victim and against the evil government
forces? Most definitely. (One wonders how the movie would have played
if Anwar really WERE a terrorist). Yet, the movie has the guts to tread
on controversial ground. It isn't afraid to raise dicey questions or
risk the disapproval of some for the political stances it takes. It
openly ponders the issue of just how DOES a nation hold fast to its
hard-won principle of "civil liberties for all" in the face of
terrorism and fear. And just how much courage does it take for people
of good will to finally stand up and say "enough is enough," even at
the risk of being branded terrorist-appeasing and unpatriotic by those
in power? (The movie also does not, in any way, deny the reality of
extreme Islamic terrorism).

Thus, to reject "Rendition" out of hand would be to allow the perfect
to be the enemy of the good. "Rendition" may not be perfect, but it IS
good, and it has something of importance to say about the world in
which we now live. And that alone makes it very much worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
"I fear you speak upon the rack, where men enforced do speak anything."
This Shakespearean line from The Merchant of Venice is echoed again in
the new film Rendition which introduces the viewer to the "enhanced
methods of interrogation", renditions, which began in the Clinton
Administration and have become more commonplace since the terror
attacks of September 11, 2001.

The film features an all-star cast, with Oscar winners Meryl Streep,
Alan Arkin, and Reese Witherspoon, as well as Peter Sarsgaard, Jake
Gyllenhaal, and Omar Metwally. Supporting roles filled by unfamiliar
actors deliver as well, sucking the audience into the plot, and showing
how many people can be affected by overseas terror attacks, and our
means of investigating them.

Rendition follows an Egyptian born terrorism suspect (Metwally) who is
taken by U.S. officials following his flight from South Africa to
Washington DC to an undisclosed prison overseas. His pregnant wife
(Witherspoon) ventures to Washington DC to find out about his
disappearance through a family friend and Senator's employee
(Sarsgaard). Gyllenhaal plays a young CIA analyst at the overseas
detention facility who monitors the violent interrogation.

This film follows the emotional plights of the torture victim
(Metwally), and those involved in obtaining the supposed information
from him. Some, like the CIA analyst (Gyllenhaal), are visibly shaken
and horrified by the methods exercised, while others, the stern Senator
(Streep) and foreign interrogator (Yigal Naor), see it as necessary and
effective.

The film may be described by some as a political piece, but is
ultimately an emotional one. Metwally's performance as the tortured
prisoner is Oscar-worthy. The film does not intend to preach, but
rather to question and inform the audience on a topic that does not
often have a human face put on it. Renditions have been known to work,
but have also been known to produce false information from innocent
prisoners. The film simply depicts the emotional struggles of those
involved in such grave business, and does so in a way that will affect
every viewer differently. The film will keep your interest, and have
you engaged in each of the character's plights.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie. I saw it to a packed house at the Toronto
International Film Festival the day after the gala opener which must
have gone over well. The director, Gavin Hood was supposed to be
present for today's screening, but alas his twins were born just hours
before, so he had to jet on a flight back. '2 birthings in 24 hours'
was how he joked about it.

Rendition refers to 'extraordinary rendition' -- a term whereby
suspected terrorists in the US can be sent, without the legal consent
of their parents nations, to prisons abroad to be questioned and
detained.

It's fairly predictable -- innocent Egyptian-American man wrongly
accused of being a terrorist 'goes missing' while en route from South
Africa to Washingon DC. He is sent abroad, while wife at home (Reese
Witherspoon) fights to find him and free him. But what makes this movie
special are some nice choices in story-telling: 1) a human-touch story
of what is going on in the locale where a suicide bomb-detonated; 2)
the humanity of a CIA agent trying to understand and be honest with
what is really going on; and 3) the chronology of story-telling which
makes it a tight, taut tale that moves and jerks at the right moments.
Ah -- relief! And a mix of emotions that swirl around as the story
fights for an ending.

All-around strong acting with Meryl Streep as a standout vixen.
<|_=00=_|>
The film tackles the here and now horror of "rendition" with a
multi-cast trans-global account of all involved. No-one gets off
lightly because we see the blindness of the players as they carve out
their own slice of the worldwide game piling hatred and misery on their
"enemies" and themselves in equal measure.

The interplay between the sympathetic Senator's Aide (played in
scintillating style by Peter Sarsgaard) and the real Washington
power-mongers is electrifying. Meanwhile out in the field, new CIA man
(Jake Gyllenhaal) goes through a sea change in his attitude to the
USA's new found cosiness with torture. Sudden though his rejection of
what he initially tacitly condoned is, one has to ask why on earth
would anyone who calls him or herself civilized stand and watch anyone
be humiliated and abused in this way? The film has few heroes - perhaps
Gyllenhaal's flawed and vacillating CIA man is the exception and a
necessary indulgence to make the film offer a sliver of hope.

The sad fact of course is that this film isn't fiction at all, but a
wake up call to those with a shred of decency left in them. The awful
truth is that we in the UK and USA have lost the moral plot and this
film shows how low we are prepared to go. All this in the name of
freedom! There's a wonderful line in the script that says that torture
is a sure way to swell the numbers of our enemies. This is already
happening in real life and we should listen to the message that this
film delivers and start using our might and money much more
intelligently!! The message seems to be that any of us who claim that
rendition, torture and the abuse of basic human rights are necessary to
protect our way of life are as wrong-headed and stultifyingly stupid as
the Jihadists and suicide bombers.

All praise to the sensibilities of a talented South African director
with a eye on the gross unfairness of how power is exercised, and a
cast of principled mainstream actors from the US and beyond. Oh, and by
the way, the film has a sting in its tail with the ending a clever and
thought provoking surprise (which I won't give away).

I saw the film in an early London preview so it has not yet been widely
written up but I'm glad to say that the tide of less than glowing
reviews seems to be turning. The BBC review has been very strongly in
support and they (and I) suspect that much of the negative comments
come from those who see the world through the simple specs of Hollywood
- where the good guys and the bad guys are cardboard cut-outs. Hence
the reason that many of the truly great films of the year are
increasingly indie and/or non-US pix.
<|_=00=_|>
Most of this political thriller presented as a mostly run of the mill
movie with a somewhat better development of many of the major
characters, that was much appreciated, until the BIG twist and powerful
climax that recalled twists experienced in "Silence of the Lambs," or
"The Sixth Sense." Reese Witherspoon as the distraught wife of the
missing Egyptian husband and Yigal Naor as the strong-armed
interrogator offer strong performances. Jake Gyllenhaal unfortunately
is handed a more two-dimensional character and has to struggled with a
stereotypical presentation of the emotionally torn CIA analyst that has
been presented many times before in other movies. Early on there is the
nice scene with an explosion that resembles a scene at the end of
"Saving Private Ryan," the silent scene that was used so effectively in
reflecting one consequence of violence. The script also provides a
little more glimpse into the mind-set of the "enemy" but still doesn't
allow the audience really much understanding, again permitting the
audience to wallow in stereotypical characterization. The
cinematography and photography also is somewhat of a letdown because
unlike "Jarhead," or "Blackhawk Down," the crisp, raw visceral
presentation is missing not allowing the audience to really be there in
the movie, there is some distance that keeps the audience from
realizing the intensity of the emotions occurring on the screen.
However, overall, the movie redeems itself by the end, offering the
audience a measured look into the complexity of the United States' use
of rendition and the possible complications and consequences that may
occur through its use. Eight out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Think of it as an extreme form of detention without trial. Without
commenting and taking a side on the US Foreign Policy, the process of
Extraordinary Rendition involves taking persons suspected of terrorist
activities to a foreign country, an opposite to an extradition if you
wish, to a place where torture is not a crime but a means to illicit
information. Instead of staining your soil with blood of potentially
innocent parties, you do so on foreign land where such tactics are
accepted interrogation techniques.

Naturally, given the severity of the tactics and attempts at breaking
down a person, sometimes you would get what you want once you pass the
resistance, or get nothing, or worst of all, get a confession just
because the mind has been broken to the point that the subject will
agree to whatever you say. It's an ugly process, and what better way to
do it when you're the champion human rights, giving the nod to use
whatever means necessary in the name of protecting more lives, in an
age where information is key to the battle against terror, and doing so
in a country where probably the rights record is questionable.

Rendition is this year's Syriana, though in the run up to the new year
we do have a number of political thriller contenders to take that
crown, with Rendition first of all, followed by the Robert Redford
movie Lions for Lambs, starring Tom Cruise and Meryl Streep (again,
though now on the other side of the fence), and The Kingdom with Jamie
Foxx and Jennifer Garner, though this one would probably turn out to be
more action driven. Directed by Gavin Hood, who did Tsotsi and will be
helming the new Wolverine spin off, Rendition is a decent thriller with
a top notch cast, in a narrative that has been proved quite popular
these days - the split, which provides for some ample differential
perspectives to be presented through an ensemble cast.

Anwar El-Ibrahimi (Omar Metwally), a chemical engineer, gets
renditioned en route to going home under the orders of CIA top brass
Corrine Whitman (Meryl Streep). At a detention facility outside the US,
Jake Gyllenhaal's CIA analyst Douglas Freeman (oh so prophetic) embarks
on his very first interrogation session, no doubt being thrust into a
position that he didn't sign up for. Back home, a very pregnant Reese
Whitherspoon searches frantically for answers to her husband's
disappearance, and sought after an ex-flame Alan Smith's (Peter
Sarsgaard) assistance, since he's working for Senator Hawkins (Alan
Arkin). Throw in J.K. Sinmmons, a terrorist plot investigation and a
budding forbidden love story between Fatima (Zineb Oukach) and Khalid
(Moa Khouas), you have quite a bit going on in a busy picture.

Given a number of casts, locations, timelines and the likes, Rendition
wasn't confusing at all, and it plays out with deft handling of the
material, never quick to judge, presenting ideas and thoughts from both
sides of the equation. Every character has their own agenda, and the
unveiling of this agenda engages enough not to bore nor to confuse you.
And the best part of it all is how, very truly, they bow down to
self-preservation in different forms, and ultimately, in various
lose-lose situations unfortunately. It kept you guessing as well - did
he or didn't he, and constantly played with your mind as to whether
Anwar deserved what he's getting. It utilized one extremely smart
sleight of hand which I didn't see coming until it's too late (so there
goes the credit), though it did succumb to the usual stereotyping of
terrorist militants, and without spending much time in depth to explore
their motivations. 

Perhaps it didn't find a need to, given so many movies out there
already touching base on this issue (Paradise Now, Day Night Day Night,
Syriana even). While it turned out to be rather one-dimensional
(personal tragedy to strapping of bombs to become a suicide bomber), I
felt Rendition did right in not providing any saccharine sweet ending,
that this fight against negative, destructive ideology, isn't something
that can be addressed in a two hour movie, and I'm glad it steered
clear such fairy tale implausibilities. 

What we have instead is a well crafted tale that sets its gun sights on
the issue of Rendition, and probably capable enough to spark discussion
once the lights come on, on which camp you belong to - do you support
inflicting severe pain in interrogation? Yes or No? This is the
quintessential question of our time. Yes or No? (OK, I'm already geared
for Lions for Lambs)!
