
No logic but lots of action, violence, gunfights and gore in this one.
There is very little meat on the story-bone and in times where, thanks
to TV, everyone is an expert on police procedures the lack of logic is
almost appalling. But throw the CSI-knowledge over board and you're in
for a crazy and entertaining ride. Nicely shoot with some great camera
movement Wan is shooting stuff to pieces almost like Hong Kong
directors did in the early '90s. No marksmen here, but who cares, this
is pure pleasure for the eyes. Kevin Bacon delivers nicely and adds a
whole new facet to the dad-on-a-rampage character. There's even a
little "Taxi Driver" in him  and not only because of his gun and
hairstyle.

If this is your poison go give Death Sentence a try.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was great. I think Bacon never fails to perform.
The movies he picks to do show a lot of his depth as he very rarely
plays a one dimensional character. There was a story to this movie. A
very complicated story. If you didn't notice the story you got
distracted by the violence. Some of the dialogue was cheesy but that is
what makes it great.

The only problem I had with the film was the detective role. She seemed
to serve zero purpose whatsoever. I am not taking away from the acting
done for that role. But every scene she was in was slower and just did
not fit with the rest of the movie. Other then acting as a very short
winded inner monologue for Bacon's character, all she did was say no
no, your safe, they're dead, and no. 

We all knew where this movie was going we didn't need the attempt to
turn into a crime drama. 

If you did not like this movie you went into it expecting the wrong
thing. This is a revenge movie. It had no supernatural parts. When
someone was shot they bled a lot and they were in pain. 

If you ever wanted to exact revenge on someone in your own mind or in
your dreams go see this movie it is great.
<|_=00=_|>
Reminiscent of previous vigilante films like Death Wish and The Brave
One, this film is much more action-packed and gripping. Kevin Bacon
gives an excellent performance as a traumatised father who witnessed
his son's murder and decides to punish the killers himself, rather than
depend on the police.

The action scenes are truly suspenseful and keep you on the edge of
your seat, especially a foot-chase that culminates in a deadly game of
hide-and-seek within a 5-storey parking garage. Another factor that
sets this film apart from previous vigilante thrillers is that it still
manages to serve up quite a few twists and turns that add to the
tension.

As exciting and gripping as this film is, please be fore-warned: the
violence shown on screen is not for those with weak stomachs. It's
graphic, brutal, edgy and tense. Still, this does not detract from the
film at all. If anything, it makes the whole experience more visceral.
<|_=00=_|>
If anything is going to hurt this movie, it is going to be all of the
negative reviews it has been receiving from all of these stuck up
critics! Death Sentence is exactly what everyone is expecting it to be,
and fans of the 'Revenge' genre will have a blast watching Kevin Bacon
chase after his son's killers in this gruesome and riveting storyline.

Kevin Bacon gives an almost scary performance, and the movie will have
moments that make some people cringe, and surprisingly some moments
that will bring people tears.

Mixing revenge and violence with the struggles in the main character's
life works well, and the movie never slows down or gets boring. It is
not as if the director really messed anything up, and I don't know what
the negative feedback was for, but this movie will certainly entertain
the majority of people who go to see it. Have fun!
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this Movie at the Fantasy-Film-Fest in Munich and I have to
say: Great stuff. 

Wan really delivers on this new Genre. 

Kevin Bacon is brilliant as always as the tormented father of a happy
family (at least at the beginning of the movie), John Goodman does a
stunning performance in a small but impressive supporting role. 

The action sequences got me to the edge of the seat and boy, this
really doesn't happen very often I must confess. 

Go and watch this, you wont regret it - if you don't principally have
problems with revenge-movies like "The Punisher" or "Straw Dogs"! 

... ... ... ... ... ...
<|_=00=_|>
I know many people on here have posted that this film isn't based in
reality and I for one am GLAD!!! We see reality too often day in and
day out on the news, and the sad truth of it is, the bad guys usually
get away with murder and don't suffer any repercussions for it. So it's
great to see a film that delivers to us what it would be like if
justice was served! Director, James Wan of the original "SAW" movie
shows us he is not a one trick pony and can deliver his talents past
just the horror genre. Kevin Bacon and the rest of the cast did a
wonderful job delivering a very believable grief stricken family, I
would definitely recommend this film!
<|_=00=_|>
* MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD * (duh!)

- If your son is bleeding to death, it's a lot more useful to shout for
help when there's nobody around than to call an ambulance.

- If your son is bleeding to death, let him walk by himself instead of
carrying him - it would help stopping the bleed.

- When you are angry - stand in the middle of the road and wait for a
car to smash you.

- Gang members only get flesh wounds when getting hit by a car on the
highway.

- Montages are NOT a cliché.

- Gang members look super-cool in red light.

- When you want to sentence a murderer - it's enough to go to trial
with one single evidence at hand (a witness).

- You can kill the guy, who murdered your son, at the same day he was
released - the police would never suspect you did it. And if a
policewoman would know you did it, she'll just tell you it's "not OK".

- Your friends at work would never ask you why your hand is all wrapped
in bandage and is bleeding. But if you want to be sure - put your hand
behind your back.

- Working in an office would put you in better shape than any gang
member.

- There is no bullet in the world that can hit Kevin Bacon - unless
he's running in slow motion or found in red lighting environment, which
tends to make him vulnerable.

- Kelly Preston never learned what "overacting" means.

- If you secured the entire house and locked all the windows, it's OK
to open the door to whoever rings the bell.

- If you're working in a hospital, it's good to tell a joke to someone
whose entire family has just been murdered.

- If you're working in a bank, it's good to tell a joke to someone who
draws all his savings.

- If you're working in a bar, you would never believe that anyone else
speaks Spanish.

- Always read the instructions before using a weapon. It will also
teach you how to shoot.

- Having your son in hospital would give you immunity when murdering
bad guys.

- It's important to shave your head before going to kill your family's
murderers.

- If you're going to crash into another guy's car, don't put your seat
belt - it's for pu**ies.

- Mutilation is super-cool.

- Even Kevin Bacon can't save this movie from James Wan's direction.

1/10 Hilarious movie. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie surprised me. I expected something over acted and plot less.
Boy was I wrong. This movie was really good. They show the reality of
things that do happen. Kevin Bacon gave a good performance along with
Kelly Preston. The Action was good. The violence was brutal and done in
a realistic fashion. The language was also heavy and use in every
sentence. The only problem with me is that the gang members were a
little over done. I think they were kind of over the top including all
the tattoos and what not. But besides that the movie was fun and
intense.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
At least in walking tall he recuperated before going on a revenge
spree. The police were made to look very stupid. After 2 policemen are
killed and they know who the killers are, no one tries to track them
down. Please... If I knew a gang was after me and my family, I
certainly would not keep them at home. They would be on the first
flight out of town. He escapes from the hospital and the police know
that he is out for revenge, but no one bothers to look for him at his
house. Someone who has never handled guns before becomes an expert
marksman by reading the manuals. It would not have taken much to have
the plot make more sense. They could at least have the police trying to
do something.
<|_=00=_|>
(*Respect to Spinal Tap's Shark Sandwich.) First off, I love me some
revenge films.

From the masterful (Park Chan-Wook's vengeance trilogy, Straw Dogs, or
Dead Man's Shoes) to the brutal (I Spit on Your Grave or Thriller: En
Grym Film), there is no genre that does it for me quite like revenge.
So when I first heard about Death Sentence, I figured it'd be worth a
viewing: Kevin Bacon, murdered child, director of Saw, I expected it to
be at least passable.

Well, I humbly stand corrected. I'm pretty sure if you are someone
defending/championing this movie, you are either a) semi-retarded, or
b) you need to see a real revenge movie. Everything about this POS is
so blatantly one-dimensional that I'm amazed it doesn't slide off the
celluloid it was filmed on...

The victim's family doesn't seem THAT upset that their son was
murdered, there's no real passion about anything - it's all just very
go-with-the-flow. The courtroom scene is pure comedy gold, with the
97-pound-weakling 'killer' smirking and leering at a
pretty-much-nonplussed Kevin Bacon. Bacon's character, Nick Hume,
doesn't appear too tortured about losing his 'golden boy' (okay, he
sobs in the shower once) , and the murder of his son's killer seems
almost spur-of-the-moment.

As for the thugs, they're all hilarious - a bunch of
didn't-quite-make-the-cut extras from a circa-1997 nü-metal video shoot
and should be filed under 'outdated badass' at Central Casting Come on,
tribal tattoos and facial piercings!? What are they, a MySpace 'gang'
who still listen to bands like Staind or Disturbd, or some other group
of no-talents who can't spell, either? And look, there's Johnny
Goodman! Just a day or two before seeing this I was thinking to myself,
'Why haven't I seen John Goodman in anything good lately?' I guess now
I know why, he's way too busy making turkeys like this. The one-liners
aren't clever, not even in a juvenile way, and one line of dialogue,
("Fear is for the enemy. Fear and bullets.") is ripped almost
word-for-word from James O'Barr's The Crow (another epic revenge story
turned into a lousy movie).

As for the acting? Kevin Bacon is the only one who almost pulls it off,
but only almost.

Kelly Preston? Obviously not, she can't even act like Travolta isn't
gay.

Goodman? Nope. Sorry.

Garrett 'You-just-bought-your-family-a-death-sentence!' Hedlund? Hey,
if I wanted to see a goth kid have a temper tantrum, I'd just e-mail
Weston Cage that Little Debbie's had gone out of business , or that
there was now a worldwide shortage of blue-black hair dye.

I digress - you know how certain foreign markets tend to eat up some
movies better than the film's own home country does? Well, apparently
my fellow Canadians love this movie because it has so many references
to their national excuse, hockey. The murdered son (the one Nick Hume
actually likes) is a hockey player and wants to go to Canada, and we
see a cop picking up a broken hockey stick at a crime scene, after Hume
has killed one of the 'gang' members. I counted at least 3 or 4
references to hockey in this movie, and I heard the movie was intended
to be released here under the name Sudden Death Sentence, Eh? Back to
the topic at hand  this movie sucked. The bad guys get off way too
easily, same as in every other revenge movie. Nobody's cracked it yet 
the revenge film that goes all the way. We don't even get to see Nick
Hume waste Billy Darley in this movie. All that time wasted and there's
not even a bloody payoff for the audience. What a waste of 110 minutes.
James Wan, whose first Saw film was at least memorable, has dropped the
ball horribly. He should instead stick to casting winners like Donnie
Wahlberg in his movies and coming up with cheesy gross-outs like the
needle pit in Saw II. Truly, the only death sentence in this cinematic
abortion is the viewer's own  knowing that they are now 110 wasted
minutes closer to their own demise.

Enjoy!
