
This movie was AWFUL. None of my 4 children enjoyed this film (ages
5-13), and one fell asleep (we went at 11 am so he wasn't tired). The
animation seemed cheap, like a direct to DVD type movie. Barbie movies
are better animation than this movie was and that says a lot. The songs
were random and about the oddest things. The characters made no sense
and interacted in a bizarrely unemotional and unconnected way. Not one
character was interesting, funny, deep, layered, anything. I didn't
really recognize any of the voices of the "big name" actors who voiced
the parts, save for Lea Michelle, who sounds like she is whining/crying
all the time. And of course Martin Short as the strangest, least scary
yet most highly disturbing villain ever. Whomever is giving this 10
stars is obviously paid to do so (there are people who are paid to give
good reviews on movies before they come out to generate interest and
get people to the theater) and/or possibly on uppers. I recommend not
seeing this in the theater, save your money and if you must, rent it on
Redbox for $1.29 or whatever. One of the worst kids movies I've seen in
a long time- and I've seen 'em all.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting a lot but this movie is one of the worst movies I've
ever seen at the theater. If you are a hard-core fan of the Oz/Dorothy
stories you might like it but if you are expecting a movie that is even
remotely coherent you will be disappointed. 

It's fantasy and it's geared toward kids, I get that, but the story and
dialog here are so lame that even young kids will struggle to find this
movie entertaining. It tries to mimic "Robots" at times (which IS a
good movie) and tries to sort of be a Disney-esque musical but it fails
to be anything other than just a really bad movie.

This should have been a straight-to-DVD release if it was even released
at all. It features big named talent (Patrick Stewart, Dan Akroyd,
Kelsey Grammar, Jim Belushi,etc.) but with story this poorly-written
nobody could have saved this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
So bad - I can't believe some of the good reviews. The Jester character
was horrible and unfortunately on the screen practically the entire
movie. The flying monkeys were everywhere and disgusting. A few
redeeming characters like Wiser the Owl and Marshall Mallow tried to
add some depth to the movie but were strapped by the script. This
wasn't even as good as Saturday cartoons as far as the quality of the
animation. I agree with the person who said people must be getting paid
to write good reviews. I kept waiting for some great Bryan Adams songs
- but where were they? The initial premise that a whole town would pick
up and move because some shyster told them they had to was also
ridiculous.
<|_=00=_|>
As I suspected from its origins, this film is uninspired, unoriginal,
and mostly humorless. Apparently it is doing poorly at the box office--
and rightly so. What is missing is the sense of humanity and wonder
that infuses L Frank Baums's classic books (especially the first few)
and the MGM classic film based on his first book. I think the problem
with this film is that it is based on the rather mediocre "Dorothy of
Oz" written by a Roger Baum, a great grandson of L Frank Baum. "Dorothy
of Oz" has the same deficiencies as this film: lack of universality,
originality, understanding of humanity or appeal to adults. Because of
these deficiencies, even children will find this film as forgettable as
Roger Baum's book. Instead of true originality we are given some new
"cute" characters like Wiser the owl. It can't just "get by" on
cuteness or nostalgia for the original Oz story. It just doesn't work.
Successful children's books and films are driven by vision and heart:
this film (and the book it's based on) have none. 

I became aware of this film even before it was made, when people
soliciting investors for the film contacted me. They were surprised to
learn that someone actually knew about L. Frank Baum and his wonderful
books (beyond the MGM film that almost everyone has seen). They
appeared to believe that anything connected to the Wizard of Oz was
golden, and were outraged by the idea that Roger Baum's book is
uninspired and that a film based on it was doomed to fail.

Unfortunately, in the end the producers were not able to rise above the
unoriginal "Dorothy of Oz." I feel sorry for whoever did invest in this
boring debacle. I recommend that you skip this film, no matter the age
of your children. Instead see a classic: rent Pinocchio, MGM's "Wizard
of Oz," or Disney's "Mary Poppins" each of which has the heart that
this film lacks.
<|_=00=_|>
I find it hard to trust the 1st dozen or so reviews on some films found
at this sight. Of course I could be mistaken but, I saw this film and
found it to be full of nonsense and trite clich√© dialog. With the mega
cast that participated in the making of this film I expected a much
better and more interesting story to be explored in this sequel
classic.

As I watched the various characters enter the beginning scenes I felt
they were very cardboard like. The few comedic scenes seemed almost too
childish even for children. As to the animation, it was not to my
liking. It seemed that it was taken from generic Saturday morning
cartoons. It was bland and even boring to a degree.

Lastly I noticed that production costs of this animated film were
surprisingly much more than I expected it to be. Nearly a million bucks
a minute. I felt that for that kind of mega bucks this should have been
a higher quality of product. The next few weeks will show weather the
movie goers buy and or embrace this less than stellar movie.

Not every children's Animated film can be a "Frozen" or a "Finding
Nemo" but they should at least aim for that quality and level of
product.
<|_=00=_|>
This has got to be one of the worst animated films I've ever seen. The
animation was absolutely horrible and quite ugly (even "Toy Story" from
19 years ago has better animation), the songs are horrendous (no
"Somewhere Over the Rainbow" here), the storyline is a cheap knock-off
of the original story (can't even the proper time era right - Kansas is
now mid-2000s for some reason), and the characters are unlikeable. And
one more thing: I have a feeling most of the people who write heavily
positive reviews are rich idiots who lost $100K each because the film's
producer Greg Centineo scammed you all into supporting this fiasco just
so he could get rich (most of the movie's $70 million dollar budget is
probably in his back pocket right now). Same for the movie's Facebook
fans, positive audience feedback on Rotten Tomatoes and Cinemascore,
and so on. Admit it: you were cheated the reason the movie failed is
because it's terrible, so don't try to save your own skin.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney tried to recreate the magic of the 1939 classic motion picture
with OZ: THE GREAT AND POWERFUL; it didn't work and it doesn't work
with this latest animated movie. The posters made it look interesting,
but than there is the film itself. The story line was lousy and all the
name star's voices did not help the picture. Can't the makers of
movies, like this, see that it isn't good? Doesn't Hollywood have
screening rooms any more? And what is with all these great reviews for
this movie? Come on now. The way people write about this film you would
think it was the second coming!!! Today's filmmakers need to forget
about messing with one of the greatest motion pictures ever made and
come up with new ideas.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Legends of Oz: Dorothy's Return in an advance screening last
weekend. I took two of my sons with me, neither under the age of 16.
Older teenagers are natural-born skeptics when it comes to kids' movies
so I was sure they'd pan it.

Much to my (pleasant) surprise, they enjoyed the film as much as I did.
From the opening credits-- which re-imagined the tornado sequence in
the 1939 Wizard of Oz that we have all seen dozens of times--to the
final frame, we were captivated by the characters, the songs and the
storyline. In addition, the pacing of the movie was great, though there
were a few moments where it felt a little "draggy." But just a few: my
guess is the target audience (ages 6 to 12) won't even notice.

This independent film has some surprisingly big stars as voices of the
characters, most notably Lea Michele of Glee fame. I had never heard of
her a few months ago, but then I checked her out and found out she has
3.4 million fans on Facebook! She seems to be big among the teen set.
Anyway, she plays a winsome yet spunky Dorothy, a 2014 version of the
character popularized by oh-whats-her-name in 1939.

The Scarecrow, Lion and Tin Man are voiced by Dan Ayckroyd, Jim Belushi
and Kelsey Grammar respectively. They have kept the inner core of these
lovable characters while updating them to suit modern tastes.

The freshest part of the film are the new characters introduced as
Dorothy returns to Oz and tries to make her way to the Emerald City,
where an evil Jester (terrificly played by Martin Short) is wreaking
havoc. In an echo of the original film, Dorothy first encounters and
then wins over these characters (Wiser the Owl; Marshall Mallow, the
Dainty China Princess and Tugg, played by Patrick Stewart) as she makes
her way down the yellow brick road.

Some of the songs are forgettable but there some that really connect.
"Even Then," a love ballad written by Bryan Adams and Tift Merrit, is
sure to cause a lump in your throat. And "When the World" will probably
be the tune that stays with you as you leave the theater. I wouldn't be
surprised if the soundtrack is more popular than the movie itself.

All in all this is a film that the whole family should find charming
and fun. And at 88 minutes it is the perfect length to tell the new Oz
story while keeping your attention. Ignore those critics complaining
about the quality of the animation. Its a kids' movie, for crying out
loud!
<|_=00=_|>
Fortunately I have two little kids now or I would have never watched
this movie. In addition, I never heard this movie was coming out or
anything about it until we all saw it on Netflix. 

My kids aged 9 and 2 1/2 years of age. They both love animated movies
to death and have seen a lot of them. Animated movies are not my cup of
tea, but because they are playing all the time in the house I see,
hear, and remember the movies even though I am watching them
indirectly.

I was searching for yet another animated movie and I stumbled upon this
one. Being older, I am a fan of the original Wizard of Oz movie from
the 1930's having seen it a million times growing up. It looked
interesting so we all watched it. Now for the critique:

2. The Story (ebb & flow): It seemed like a logical sequel to the
original live action movie that I love, although the sequel is
animated. I thought it was easy to understand and wasn't illogical like
some other reviewers stated. As an adult and an experienced movie
watcher, I thought the story was well written and easy to understand.
The fault lies in the source material. Most young people today do not
know the story of the Wizard of Oz so they can't connect to it.

3. Characters. Once again, as in the fault of the story, the characters
are not recognizable to the target audience: kids. Yes the adults will
know about the Wizard of Oz, but the core audience will see it as an
original movie. No kids watching the movie will know about the Lion's
courage, the Tin Man's heart, or the Scarecrow's brain. Their
background is unknown and the movie does not make an effort to rectify
the situation. The only character in the movie that you end up learning
a lot about is the Jester and only because he talks about himself and
his past near the beginning of the film. To me thats a bad idea. Why?
Because kids should know about the good characters, not the bad ones.
The good characters are the ones you want your children to connect with
and feel sympathy for, not the evil ones. I felt they focused too much
on the Jester character and not enough on characters that mattered.

4. Animation. The animation quality wasn't bad. Was it the best I've
ever seen? No, but it wasn't the worst either. I would say it was good
animation that probably could have benefited with a little more
financial resources allocated to it.

5. Musical parts (songs): This is where the movie shines. I felt the
songs in the movie were of high quality and very catchy. If this were a
successful Disney movie, the songs from this movie would be sung by
every boy and girl like what happened in Frozen. Frozen had like two or
three catchy songs, where Legends of Oz had four or five that would be
popular. Of course this is my opinion and I'm not a fan of musicals.

6. Excitement & Entertainment. This is where the moneys made for a
movie. Did you feel you got your moneys worth? The movies strengths
were its musical numbers and the good story to support the songs. If
they had instead used the songs in a more higher profile animated
movie, it would have been a better idea.

Bottom Line: An enjoyable movie that needs to watched more than once to
really appreciate the strengths of the movie: it's songs. I bought the
DVD!
<|_=00=_|>
Legends of Oz: Dorothy's Return judging from the terrible reviews was a
film that I watched with low expectations, but as a fan of animation
and think the voice cast to be very talented the film did deserve a
fair chance. There are worse animated films out there and Legends of
Oz: Dorothy's Return isn't from personal view as terrible as has been
said but it is not a particularly good film either and one of the
weaker Oz incarnations(with only 1978's The Wiz being worse, the best
of course being the timeless 1939 MGM classic), even when judged on its
own merits rather than a direct comparison. There are a few glimpses of
good detail in the animation, like the rainbow, Dainty China Country,
Wiser's chest and the grainy colour for the tree. Toby Chu's score is
pleasant and whimsical in the way that most of the songs are not; When
the World is a catchy and beautiful song and by far the highlight of
the soundtrack; credit should go to the writers for trying to give
Jester a back-story(the closest we actually get to learning about the
characters) and Toto is adorable and entertaining, the only character
who is really likable. The voice cast are a mixed bag, with Martin
Short the stand-out, he may be on autopilot at times and has lacklustre
material but his maniacal and sometimes amusing voice-work is the most
enthusiastic of the whole cast. Megan Hilty, Hugh Dancy, Jim Belushi
and Kelsey Grammar are perfect as well for their characters too.

But others don't make the grade. Lea Michele's singing is amazing of
course but her acting is rather unemotive and shrill and Dan Aykroyd
and Patrick Stewart are wasted in under-written and dumbed-down
roles(Aykroyd also came across as too abrasive and stern for a leader).
Bernadette Peters would have been perfect for Glinda but compared to
her delicate, benevolent character design she came across as too
ambivalent and gravelly voiced(it also sounded like she was trying to
put on a part-English part-French accent), while Oliver Platt may be
unrecognisable but it did sound like he was channelling Dom DeLuise but
wasn't really all that funny in doing so. It's not their fault though,
because the dialogue is really inane with a lot of the humour, or what
there is of it, very juvenile and forced and the characters are poorly
realised, the most entertaining characters being Toto and China
Princess and the blandest being Dorothy. Wiser the Owl to me was
annoying and too cutesy with the worst of the humour coming from him;
Scarecrow, TinMan and Cowardly Lion while having some enjoyable rapport
are under-utilised(with an overdone leading-joke too) and little more
than stooges and China Princess and Marshal Mallow's romance is
somewhat cute but takes up too much of the film and wasn't all that
necessary. Personally, also, the villain Jester is over-used and a
missed opportunity, with despite Short's voice work, a cool entrance
and his back-story the writers didn't seem sure whether to have him as
a menacing villain or one played-for-laughs, often he seemed too silly
to be a real threat to anyone and his plans seemed in the end
under-developed and senseless.

The story didn't come across as very engaging, it meant well but was
very charmless and brash and was lacking in any real brains, heart,
charm or wonder. It's rather unimaginative and by-the-numbers stuff, as
well as being very predictable, complete with an awkward mix of forced
humour and a bleak surrealistic in alternative to magical atmosphere
which makes one question whether the film had a clear idea at all which
audience they were aiming at. There were a few nice details and bright
colours but most of the animation was not very good, a lot of the
characters are very robotic in movement and very hollow-eyed(ie.
Dorothy) and the backgrounds are flat, garish and plastic computer-game
looking most of the time. The Kansas scenes and final battle were
especially embarrassing with Aunt Em and Uncle Henry suffering the
worst of the stiff character designs. And of the songs only one really
stood out(When the World), the others were forgettable and badly
placed(some like Candy Candy coming right out of nowhere), the Jester's
rock-opera-like villain song stylistically out of kilter with the rest
of the songs and even the rest of the film too. Well actually Even Then
was a nice song but made the mistake of grinding the film down to a
complete stand-still. But how can you have Peters on board and not give
her anything to sing, it's criminal considering that she has the most
experience of any of the cast here in this regard? Overall, one of
those animated films that is not completely terrible but from a very
subjective personal opinion not good either, there are moments that are
decent but much of it is lazy and charmless. 4/10 Bethany Cox
