
You know that feeling when you walk out of a movie and think "God, that
was just such a great film"? It takes a lot for me to think that...
especially when it's a movie about two men who have cancer... but this
movie really did it for me, as well as everyone else in the theater. I
saw the movie at its first ever screening in Pasadena and it was just
wonderful... even with temp music and unfinished visual effects! Jack
Nicholson and Morgan Freeman were truly amazing together - it's a film
about cancer, and yet the two were able to balance the comedy and the
drama of the script in such the perfect way that the audience loved
every moment of the movie. The script was quite original, which was
such a breath of fresh air, and the acting couldn't have been any
better. I would recommend this film to anyone and everyone - as it was
such a feel-good movie that made you both laugh and cry at the same
time - something you don't come across too often. Not only did the
audience applaud the movie at the end, but EVERY single viewer who
stayed to give comments agreed that the movie was "Excellent"... I
can't imagine how often that happens. I'd be surprised if this movie
isn't up for some Oscar or another come next year.
<|_=00=_|>
A simple premise done magically is all I can say about this movie.

Morgan Freeman and Jack Nicholson are by far and away two of my
favourite actors. Jack Nicholson is just funny, no matter what he says
or does, ever since Terms of Endearment he has made me laugh so hard
that I cry and Morgan Freeman is just the best actor going around. I
find it hard to remember a bad movie that he has done.

Probably not everyone will like this movie but it is definitely up
there with the best feel good/sad movies that I have seen....and it has
a moral that most of us miss in our hectic, live for the now short
lives.

This is going to be up there with the best at the Oscars in 2008.

It will make you laugh and cry all at once...it did me.
<|_=00=_|>
"The tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young."
Oscar Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray

Now and then I should rethink what I've been learning all these years
as a critic because I predicted The Bucket List would have all kinds of
holes in it. It did, but they were tiny blemishes in an otherwise solid
frame. This is a good movie, as much silly as serious. And therein lies
the skill of director Rob Reiner, who makes sure Jack doesn't kill the
lines with bluster and Morgan doesn't drown them in vocal sweetness.

Edward (Nicholson) and Carter (Freeman) meet in hospital where they
have been given less than a year to live because of cancer. They bond,
create the "kick-the-bucket" list of ten things to do before dying, and
then do them. The hokey process shots at several of the world's wonders
indicate the surety of Reiner's direction where he evokes the old Hope
and Crosby road pictures and emphasizes that the journey is the
important thing, not the destination.

Both men laugh and cry and change in subtle ways that make this not a
maudlin exercise in death denial but rather a celebration of love
through friendship, regardless of the grim future. Although Justin
Zachman's script is overall weak given the actors' worth, there are
lines that save it all from mediocrity: As Edward the cynic says, "We
live, we die, and the wheels on the bus go round and round." As Carter
the humanist says, "You measure yourself by the people who measure
themselves by you." The two philosophies, fate and love, caress in a
slow dance to recognition of life's true value.

The Bucket List is not half as sappy as I sound so far; it is a sober
rendering of life's lessons at the end by two different men who find
their common humanity.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most fun and uplifting films of the year, Rob Reiner's The
Bucket List is also a likely contender for Academy Award nominations.
Wonderfully sarcastic dialogue, poignant exchanges between excellently
crafted characters, and an overall beautiful tale of mortality and
morality, The Bucket List is an excellent opportunity for two of the
greatest actors of our time to show off their inimitable techniques.
Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman have a chemistry that will have you
laughing until you cry and crying at the sight of something truly
majestic.

Edward Cole (Jack Nicholson) is an incredibly wealthy hospital owner
who firmly believes that he's running infirmaries instead of health
spas, and therefore demands that each room contain two beds and two
patients. When a twist of fate lands him in his own hospital, he's
stuck sharing a room with Carter Chambers (Morgan Freeman). Both men
are dying of cancer, and the doctors give each of them only a few
months left to live. The two slowly but surely realize how much they
enjoy each other's company, so when Carter begins writing a "bucket
list", Jack prompts him to see it through. The "bucket list" is a list
of all the things both Edward and Carter would like to accomplish in
their remaining months (before they kick the bucket) and with Cole's
wealth, the two end up touring the world, skydiving and racecar
driving. As their list of goals begins to come to an end, they realize
how much they've truly lived just in the last few months alone, and how
much their short friendship has impacted their lives.

Jack Nicholson's performance is excellent as the curmudgeonly Ebenezer
character that receives a change of heart and a change of view with
Carter's friendship. Little character development is necessary as we
have come to recognize Jack's style over the years. We're already
familiar with his character and relate to him in much the same way we
feel about all of his recent projects. He's attained a level of
recognition that allows us to acknowledge him simply as Jack.
Regardless of his role, he's still Jack, and he doesn't disappoint.

The same can be said for Morgan Freeman who continues to play roles
that accentuate his knack for worldly, wise and good-natured characters
that can make us laugh and cry from moment to moment. Rarely do we see
two actors work so well together  this odd couple appears to have been
destined for these roles. The chemistry between these veterans is
pleasantly refreshing, and because of it, The Bucket List is one of the
most entertaining films of the year.

Another aspect, which is a great credit to screenwriter Justin Zackham,
is the dialogue, which is continually hilarious even while it borders
on heartbreaking. Sarcasm and cynicism are proudly worn by Jack, and
the conversations conducted between the two are never dull. Meaningful,
affecting and downright funny, the script is amazingly well paced and
flows more naturally than anything in recent memory.

Nearly everything is likable about The Bucket List, except the tone of
the film, which many awards voters and critics may feel is too
repetitious of late. The film is uplifting and heartwarming, and while
the conclusion strives for unpredictability, comparisons may be drawn
to similarly crafted works. "Driving Miss Daisy" and "As Good as it
Gets" are immediately brought to mind, especially because these include
the same actors, although the morals of "A Christmas Carol" and "It's A
Wonderful Life" are clearly beneath the surface of this feel-good
comedy. Despite these comparisons, The Bucket List is wholesome
entertainment that will certainly bring director Rob Reiner back into
the spotlight, especially after his unpropitious previous project,
"Rumor Has It".

- Mike Massie
<|_=00=_|>
I, like you probably, love the movies. I want to laugh, cry , be
scared, be informed. I love every genre. But only three films have made
me sob. Maybe it is where I am in life right now. I am no spring
chicken, but this film moved me like no other. Is it the best film
ever? No. Neither were the other two that made me sob. For the record
they were "Men Don't Leave", and "My Life". This is a better film than
both of those fine films.

The operative word is sob.I have certainly shed a tear or two at
countless films. You get a dedicated teacher and a bunch of misfit
students, you'll get a tear out of me. You throw some adversity at an
athlete or a team that overcomes it you'll probably see a tear as well,
but this film just struck a chord. Not everyone who sees it will feel
this way. I know that, but Nicholson is so damned brilliant as is
Freeman. It is a joy to watch their characters for a little over 90
minutes, and the message, well, I hope it hits you as it did me. I
wanted to go hug everyone that means anything to me. Sure the film has
some flaws, but Reiner and company are to be commended. Thanks for
opening up some feelings that I have spent years learning to hide. For
the record I laughed a fair amount as well. Go see this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Usually I'm not into these kinds of movies, but with the casting of
Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman I had to see it. I'm really glad that
I decided to give this a try.

The story is quite predictable, but I still enjoyed it. Never mind how
impossible the storyline is because it is a great movie about
friendship - how two men become great friends in a short time and help
each other out throughout the time they are together. It moves along at
a smooth pace and I never got bored, so the writer gets credit for
that. The acting was top notch as Nicholson and Freeman draw forth the
right emotion in the audience at the right time. The emotional parts
are done just right, but the funny scenes are the best. I laughed
throughout the movie but not as much as I would in a true comedy movie,
but the comic scenes in this one really work and Nicholson is the "main
man" in them. It does have a message at the end about how you should
live your life to the fullest, how your family is important, and how
you should be happy in life and the movie delivers that message
perfectly.

Other than the predictable storyline and the sometimes cheesy dialog,
the movie is great. I would recommend it to anyone that is looking for
a feel-good movie.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Bucket List" is certainly a sentimental favorite that as a viewer
touches your emotions and has you hoping for finding a friendship in
the end, even though the film is funny and somewhat unrealistic. The
performances from Jack and Morgan as expected are top notch, and I
personally like Rob Reiner's direction of showing how an unlikely and
odd friendship develops between two guys on their way out of life by
doing the things they've always wanted. The "Bucket List" in many
respects is a good happy fairy tale that most ordinary folks would
dream about before they die, yet the character types played by
Nicholson and Freeman make it so believable.

Jack Nicholson is billionaire hospital CEO administrator Edward Cole
who as a grumpy and aging four time divorced playboy finds he has
terminal cancer. With Freeman a character that's much different a blue
collar working class auto mechanic named Carter Chambers who's a loving
family man with a wife and kids and on the side a beloved history buff
and trivia enthusiast yet he discovers his fate of having terminal
cancer. Upon meeting in the same hospital room they share at first it's
a cold and tough bonding only later to grow into a friendship by
journey and discovery. The concept is thought up by Chambers by making
a list called "The Bucket List" of things to do before we die. Oddly
opposites agree the journey starts. The adventures include the heart
pumping sky diving, auto drag racing, and trips to exotic locations and
foreign countries. Many scenes like the mountain tops and pyramids seem
unreal, yet are carried on by the witty and funny lines from Jack's
character.

Most important aside from the journey and discovery of friendship and
caring by travel and adventure a special bond is formed. Each has
learned before they meet the end they have made each a better person
that cares they both found what's important in life thru one another.
"The Bucket List" isn't really a tear jerker, yet it's story of two
terminal cancer patients provides the need for compassion as the viewer
feels pain during the early scenes and you are certainly touched by the
way the characters emotions grow by friendship you as the viewer feel
your emotions have taken a good friendship journey. Finally this film
is made even better by the performances of the two veteran legends
Nicholson and Freeman. I highly recommend anyone view "The Bucket
List".
<|_=00=_|>
I was glad to catch this movie before it's release date here in Canada,
so I know to tell all my friends and family, and anyone I can possibly
reach to go see this movie.

Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman put on a terrific performance,
playing two cancer patients who only have a year to live. They both
decide to make a "Bucket List", a list of events they never
accomplished in their lives. This list ranged from kissing the
prettiest lady in the world to patching up the problems with their
family.

The performances of this movie was phenomenal, but what really made
this movie unique was the writing. We have all seen movies with a
similar plot like in The Holiday when Queen Latifa spends all her money
living like a Queen because she only has a few months to live. But
instead the Bucket List is unique because it wasn't that completing
this list made their last year worth living, it was the fact that the
writers focused on the chemistry of these two men and how their
friendship increased while completing this list.

The witty dialog, the brilliant writing and the great performance
really made this movie a post-Christmas treat.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Yes, this can be viewed as Hollywood
formula with mass appeal and loads of stereotypes and clichés. On the
other hand, it can be taken as a very accessible commentary on
friendship, companionship and finding the joy in life. I prefer the
latter. Either way, it does require a certain suspension of reality.
Just ask Roger Ebert, who has made it his personal mission to bash the
film.

Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman are both in prime form, and after a
string of weak films, director Rob Reiner does a masterful job of
keeping Nicholson from going over the top and from having Freeman kill
us with sweetness. Even more impressive is the pacing of the early
hospital scenes ... nothing is forced, no line of dialogue or shot
seems hurried. This is two patients coming to grips with their
situation. While the worldly travels are impressive, my favorite parts
of the film are the scenes between the two beds in the same room.

On the downside, will someone please tell Hollywood that Morgan Freeman
in the cast does not mandate a blasted voice-over from the man? We know
he has a great voice, but if the narration adds nothing to the story,
please just let the film do its thing.

There are some laugh out loud moments and one-liners, but there are
also some strong moments of drama ... death has a way of creating
those. This is a combination of road trip, buddy film and coming-of-age
... very unusual for two senior citizens! So while the story line
surprises are few, sit back and enjoy excellent acting (including Sean
Hayes), wonderful direction and a few life lessons. Good stuff for a
movie that all ages can enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
On new years day, 2008, I saw the film "The Bucket List." It was not my
first choice of a film that I wanted to see. To be honest, however, I
probably would not have enjoyed any of the films that I would have
chosen more. This film is very well done. I liked the screenplay, by
Justin Zackham. I liked the direction, by the real talented Rob Reiner.
And I was very impressed by the acting. Jack Nicholson and Morgan
Freeman did a superb job, playing two dying old guys who befriend each
other, and together have the adventure of their lives. The film is very
good. The plot involves this hospital owner-Edward Cole-who is dying
from cancer, and another cancer victim-Carter Chambers-who meets Cole
while getting treatment at the same hospital. After they both find out
that they each have only a few months to live, they agree to travel
together all over the globe, and follow this list of tasks. They call
it the bucket list.

Nicholson gives a real touching performance as Ed Cole. He plays Cole
funny, sad, stubborn, angry, strong, fearless, and loud. Morgan gives
an equally touching performance as C. Chambers. He plays Chambers
smart, cool, romantic, funny, fearless, and emotional. Both men are
very moving in this film. They are great sharing the screen. I really
enjoyed watching them play scenes together. It was for me a real treat.
These guys, Nicholson and Freeman, are two of our finest actors. And
this film is no exception.

Even though "The Bucket List" is a small film about friendship, and the
meaning of truly living, I do not recommend it for the preteens. There
are some very adult scenes. However, families with teenagers will enjoy
seeing it together.

Josh Weinman
