
I took my son to see "Battle For Terra" on it's opening weekend here in
NYC. I have to admit I didn't want to see it as much as I wanted to see
"Wolverine" but I always defer to my 7 yr. old when there is animated
fare to watch on the big screen.

Much to my surprise "Terra" is probably a much more mature, Involving &
Emotional filmgoing experience than anything on the big screen right
now. It might even bring a tear to some eyes out there.

The story as it is tells the tale of the inhabitants of the planet
Terra (By the way, That's the name given to it by the humans. I don't
think the actual name of the planet is mentioned). They are kinda like
large upright tadpoles who swim through their atmosphere. The
"Swimming" animation is really spot on & something different for a film
of this type. The "Terrans" aren't your usual cutesy alien creatures.
There are no stereotypical characters here. No "Goofy" alien, No "Evil"
aliens, although the main alien protagonist "Mala" is very handy &
invents things.

The Terrans are a peaceful race & seem to spend their days learning &
studying their heritage. Their world is a wonderful amalgam of large
mushroom like trees that they live in & they even have gliders that
they travel around in. There are even large Whale like creatures that
live in their atmosphere. Much like Blue whales cruise thru our oceans.
All of them live in harmony.

That is until Earthlings arrive announcing that since they have
devastated the resources on 3 planets & destroyed them in the process
they have no choice but to "Terraform" the planet & change the
atmosphere to suit what's left of mankind. The fact that this would
kill the peaceful Terrans is of little concern to the humans.

I cannot go into the rest of the film without spoiling it but suffice
it to say there is little to no humor in this film. That's not to say
that kids won't enjoy it. They will. But this is not your typical
kiddie flick. It is a sort of allegory about war & peace, Racism,
Militarism & most of all love & harmony between those who might look at
each other differently.

The animation is mostly superb & there are scenes where you actually
feel like you're there on the planet thanks to some good 3-D
visualization. By the way, The 3-D is more of the depth perception kind
of 3-D not the pop out of the screen type although there are a couple
of scenes of snow falling that make you just want to stick your tongue
out & catch a snowflake.

All of the voice performances are good to great & the film never lags.
As a matter of fact the battle scenes are quite rousing (Insert homage
to George Lucas here) & while not graphic...characters do die in battle
so you might want to keep an eye on the little ones if you're with one
of them.

The saddest part of the experience to me is that when we arrived at the
theatre (a 5-600 seater) there were exactly 4 people in there besides
my son & myself. "Wolverine" & "Ghosts Of Girlfriends Past" steamrolled
over this little gem & it pains me to think that people are missing out
on a truly moving experience. It'll be gone from theatres in a week &
that'll be it. I hope it finds it's audience on home video. It's a good
movie that deserves to be seen.
<|_=00=_|>
I was at the gala premiere of Terra in Toronto and was absolutely blown
away by this film- I'm not a big festival goer- but I was in Toronto on
vacation and saw something about Terra on the local news. It's hard to
believe that 'kickmekenneth' and I were at the same screening. I've
never commented on these types of websites but came across this review
when I was looking for info about this film. The film was incredible-
the world Tsirbas created is gorgeous and totally unique. I felt as
though I was watching a painting come to life. It was so refreshing to
experience an animated story whose characters had depth and conflict
like those in a dramatic live action film. The environmental and
anti-war themes were expertly woven into the plot and clearly Danny
Glover, Brian Cox and Justin Long felt strongly enough about this film
to present the premiere and Danny Glover was gracious enough to talk
with us afterward. Terra's only flaw may be that it is ahead of its
time in the US Â– where we are are used to our animated characters being
simplistic, forgettable talking animals. TERRA is the future of CGI. I
took a group of children who have not stopped talking about this film
since the screening- we go to all the animated films, and I've never
seen this kind of reaction from them. I also noticed a few adult
audience members sniffling tears at the dramatic conclusion. BRAVO Mr.
Tsirbas! This is a film worth seeing... Does anyone know who Mr.
Tsirbas is or where I can learn more?
<|_=00=_|>
I'm in the special effects field and jumped at the chance to see this
film at the festival. I love SF but have to say I was a little wary
going in because I've been burned in the past by high and low budget SF
films. Big budget SF is usually so dumbed down it betrays the genre
while low budget SF usually consists of cheesy low-rent imitations of
great films. But I still get excited hoping that the next one will 'be
the one'. I find great SF in books, but great SF films are a rare
breed. I was happy to discover that this film is different in a good
way. It's a good SF film and a great animated movie. I was surprised to
see a film this thought-provoking get made. The animation style is
really eye-popping. There were times when I wasn't sure whether I was
watching real footage or CG. The performances were generally great, but
there was some stiff acting now and then, especially with the humans.
The aliens however moved beautifully. The story begins as a fantasy but
soon transforms into a mature look at environmentalism and war. It's an
odd transition, but overall a nice surprise. In terms of SF, it's a
mixed bag of genuinely inspired ideas in the form of a completely
original alien world, and some familiar ideas from the humans. The
film's tone and style make it special. There are more than a few scenes
that are emotionally engaging. I was fearing Sci-Fi channel
movie-of-the-week but got Spielberg instead. I'm not sure what the film
cost but it seams to have had a decent enough budget behind it. The
film is not perfect, but it gets enough right to make me a fan.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember the time when animation used to be for kids? The good ol'
days, eh? This animated movie makes pretty good use of the medium to
tell a rather complex story. The movie has most qualities of good
storytelling - ethical dilemmas, unique settings and gray areas
aplenty. The premise of the movie is simple: Threatened with
extinction, the human race needs to make one last desperate attempt at
survival by the conquest of a seemingly peaceful alien world teeming
with sentient life.

The movie explores possibilities that are the antithesis of staple
sci-fi genre. For instance, What if the (typical) victim is the
aggressor? (Humans attack a seemingly peaceful alien planet). Is
peaceful bliss really a practical possibility? (without advanced
weaponry, the alien world is threatened with extinction). Another
highlight of the movie was that the aliens were, you know, just alien.
They weren't cute and cuddly (a la E.T.) or menacing hordes (a la
every-sci-fi war movie you've seen). The aliens are just rational
beings who will fight, feel and cry when the need arises.

Now, the movie isn't without its flaws. It's not completely balanced
(aggressors - no matter what the reason for aggression - are still
painted in a slightly negative tone), characterization, even the
quality of animation (in this post-Pixar universe) might be called into
question - but I'm willing to overlook all of that for one simple
reason: the director has a clear vision and explores it vividly on
screen. That's worth a couple of hours of your life. Definitely is.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a pretty good animated movie. The story is interesting and
pulls you in. The characters are uniformly interesting, Jim and Nala
are very good and well developed.

I saw the world premiere with my wife and two sons (8 and 10)at the
Toronto International Film Festival and we all liked it. It was a bit
more serious in tone than I expected. The theme around mankind becoming
extinct was well balanced and quite well done. The theme around
personal choice and making hard decisions was very well done, both Nala
and Jim had tough choices to make several times in the movie. The
ending left us all feeling a bit sad but was still positive. The humor
throughout the move and especially around the robot is so-so.

We also saw Danny Glover and Justin Long at the premiere and this was
quite exciting for all of us. Danny was very polite and posed for a
picture with the boys.

I would recommend this movie for families who have children aged 8 and
up.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie today at the Tribec Film Festival and they really did a
GREAT job. The story is unique to anything that is out there,
uplifting, and creative all around. There are a lot of amazing action
sequences and visually, they did an excellent job; between the music
and sound effects it all tied together extremely well (soundtrack used
"big sound" orchestrated music...went great with the film). I'm not one
to comment on animated films but I thought this one went above and
beyond what I have seen in the past. The director spoke afterwards and
said they made it between a small animation crew of about 20. Not bad
for an indie; you would never know looking at the final product. I was
expecting a few more laughs during the film (my animated movie
stereotype) but there weren't very many. The audience found a few
laughs at David Cross (who played a robot) on a couple of moments, but
that was it for the most part. Regardless, the blend went over well
with the audience, and I personally enjoyed it a lot. Kept you going
and had a really good ending. Just my 2 cents, but definitely worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Mala (voice of Evan Rachel Wood) is a precocious girl living on the
beautiful planet Terra, a place where peace and tolerance are
celebrated. Unbeknownst to Mala and her fellow Terrians, the last
inhabitants of Earth have exhausted the resources of their planet and
those of three others, and are now searching for a new home. This
Earthforce has discovered that the use of a Terraformer will make Terra
habitable for humans but poisonous for Terrians.

When the Earthlings embark on a hostile invasion of Terra, Mala's
father, Roven (voice of Dennis Quaid), is kidnapped. Hoping to save her
father, Mala captures and hides a crashed human pilot named Jim (voice
of Luke Wilson). While Mala nurses Jim back to health, the two forge a
friendship and a plan that could save both the human race and the
planet of Terra.

Soon, however, they realize that peace will not be secured unless they
can combat both the Terraformer and dark political forces that will
stop at nothing in their drive to achieve power for power's sake.
Battle For Terra 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
For an indie science fiction this stands out as one of the more
visually striking and emotionally resonant. But what makes this film so
unique is that it's intentionally dramatic.

It almost seems like the filmmakers were blissfully ignorant of the
unspoken requirement that all American animation must be presented as a
comedy, instead opting to tell the story as a somewhat conventional
drama. That in itself makes this film feel immediately different. The
fact that it methodically develops a case against unilateral war is
downright rebellious, especially since the alien world is introduced in
an almost naive, Disney-like way.

From the very first moments when you're introduced to the lush alien
world, you know that this film will be a visual treat, and it delivers
right through to the end. Unlike a lot of first films made by graphic
artists and such, this animated piece quite obviously has an aspiring
auteur behind it. There are a good number of compositions and cinematic
constructs that scream out 'I have a vision!'.

But the film isn't without its flaws. There are a few moments that feel
a little clumsy in the animation movement, some of the dialogue falls a
bit flat, and the pace drags in spots. But these annoyances are
thankfully few and far between, and are offset by an overall solid flow
of drama and even a few moments of true brilliance. The best being
saved for last in what has to be one of the most emotionally stirring
conclusions for the genre in some time.

So on the whole, this is a terrific animated film with something to say
and a beautiful way of expressing it. It's also the best animated
science fiction film yet.

It's that good. Flaws and all.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie that also has a message, always does have thinner line to walk.
You have to deliver your message but still not be too judgmental. In
this case, the CGI has to be top notch too. And since Pixar made
Animation their own, it's all the more difficult to prove yourself in
that field.

This movie holds up though, in every department. The voice talent is
great and the story has a few surprises. That being said, there always
will be people who will be disappointed with how a movie with a dark
edge/message concludes itself. It doesn't even matter which path it
takes, some people will be annoyed and/or disappointed. Same goes here
too. Even if you'd wish the movie ended differently, I hope you can
overcome that and be happy with what you just saw ... I was.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at a Toronto premiere and was taken by its beauty and
storytelling. The cg animation is gorgeous and the character/set design
original. The film's best attribute is its ability to be quite moving
at times, especially at the end. As is the case with a lot of science
fiction and fantasy the film is often allegorical which thankfully
feels organic and balanced for the most part. But this is definitely a
film with a message.

Action is another positive of the film. It begins quietly but builds
over time with each successive action sequence being generally more
intense the last. The final aerial battle is nicely paced and
satisfying. 

This is I think the first successful combination of cg and dramatic
science fiction. It succeeds because it tells a good story with clarity
and occasional flare - unlike the almost incomprehensible Final
Fantasy.

Overall a solid science fiction adventure.
