
In our day and age, it's very difficult to find a truly funny film that
is also fairly sweet and innocent. Having grown up as a fairy tale
princess wannabe, I've seen my share of fairy tale spin-offs, and this
has by far been the best one. I was almost afraid to watch this movie,
seeing as it was PG-13 and that doesn't really mean anything anymore
(could be clean, like Sydney White, could be completely raunchy).
However, I was pleasantly surprised by its clever writing. Some may
complain that it is too stereotypical with the cliques, but I would
point out that the gorgeous Prince Charming is also a genuinely decent
guy, not just Mr. Popularity as in most films. I mean, let's face it:
fairy tales were pretty stereotypical to begin with. Evil queens,
handsome princes, princesses in danger or in hiding, or regular girls
becoming princesses. But that doesn't make it any less of a good story.
Overall, I found it highly entertaining and terrifically charming.
Truly heartwarming to a fairy tale fan like myself, and even to my dad,
who decided to accompany me to the movie because he had nothing better
to do--and believe me, it's not easy to entertain my dad with 'chick
flicks'.

Predictable, maybe. But who really wants to see the evil witch win in
the end?
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I just haven't seen a good "teen girl" movie in so long. In fact,
I don't remember the last time I went and saw a "teen girl" movie.
Maybe if there were more out there was fun as this, I would. Basically,
I had boring, rainy Saturday and a little sister. The trip to the
theatre wound up with the two us laughing our heads off and all the
appropriate "aww" moments.

The premise is a modern-day Snow White on a college campus. A little
contrived, but hey, it apparently worked. Sydney is your average tomboy
who is under all sorts of pressure to pledge herself to her dead
mother's old sorority. Well, the sorority girls are no longer what they
used to be, and the pampered princesses throw Sydney out into the rain.
She winds up taking refuge at the Vortex, a student housing building
where lives the guy she dumped for a sorority mission and his six
bizarre roommates.

Honestly, I didn't think it would work. But it did, and besides the
cuteness there is a little more moral meat as Sydney and her new
friends lead a student body revolution. Yeah, it's cheesy and we've
seen the revenge-of-the-nerds theme many a time before, but it's so
goodhearted and fun that I couldn't help but love it, stereotypes,
predictability, and all.

All the characters seemed very much into their roles. I wouldn't say
I'm an Amanda Bynes fan, but she failed to annoy me this time around!
It was a great blend of an old story with modern college life with
clever, roll-your-eyes references to the original Disney animated film.
It might bother some people, but as a Snow White fan I thought they
were cute. 

It's definitely a girl movie, I'll give you that, so if you can't put
up with the silliness and the cheesiness, you will not enjoy it. But if
you're a girl looking for a cute movie with a lot of harmless fun, this
will hit the spot. This is one I will definitely buy on DVD and watch
when I need something light and fun.

Not the most artistic of film making and not a whole lot of focus on
in-depth characters and originality, but as a former teenage girl, I
will happily give this adorable little film 7/10 for sheer sweetness, a
good heart, and a passion for doing the right thing. Sometimes we just
need that girly spunk.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this simple tale charming and entertaining. It was funny
without filth. The cinematography was quite lovely in many spots. It
was fun to see John Schneider in a mature role for the first time in a
long while. I feel that Amanda is a lovely, talented young girl who did
a good job with the role. All the geeks were comical and interesting in
their own individual ways. The facial expressions of George were
absolutely endearing and evoked hilarious laughter several times. I
found myself wanting to bring them all home for a good meal! I
especially liked the excellent life-lesson shown for all of our society
and wholeheartedly recommend this film for everyone over the age of 12.
Younger kids just won't get it nor enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't we all wish our lives could be fairy tales??? In this movie,
that's exactly what one naive and tomboyish girl named Sydney White
gets. To us, it seems like a rather familiar story.

What Amanda Bynes is so good at is delivering clean and funny teen and
family comedies. She is a very funny actress, and continues to be
respectable by not screwing up her life like most actresses her age.
She's cute as Sydney, though her tan was not. It was quite over-done in
fact. Besides her the ones who steal the show are, of course, the dorks
(aka dwarfs). They are certainly adorable, and we can't help but think
that Sydney has found the best possible friends on campus. The downfall
in the cast was Sara Paxton as the arch-nemesis Rachel WITCHburn. She
just didn't seem quite evil enough for me. Crystal Hunt was also not
that great as Sydney southern friend Dinky.

There are some laugh-out-loud moments and one-liners. The most fun part
of the movie is catching the fairy tale parts as they come. That and
watching the dorks. "Sydney White" is a fine family film and will even
work well for teens, and it has a very nice message. However, it never
reaches any kind of high point and kind of just seems to go on at a
continuous rate. Still, it's worth a watch as a diversion from reality
and back into fairy tale world. 6/10 stars! 

Jay Addison
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a rarity, genuine humor is displayed throughout the film
without using sex jokes/raunchiness references. That's is what comedy
films need to strive for which is clean wholesome humor unlike movies
such as SuperBad, Borat, Wedding Crashers, and Knocked Up. I know it's
difficult with today's society to come up with clean jokes with what is
shown on television now days, which is why Sydney White deserves
several rounds of applause. I can't even think of a college movie which
does not have at least one dirty joke or being as wholesome as this
film. According to an article Amanda is the one who told the writers to
tone down the script and not make it raunchy. Amanda Bynes as the
leading performer in this movie is phenomenal. She is hysterically
funny as well as being cute as a button. Amanda is destined to have a
long career in the comedy field since there isn't many actresses out
there who can even "do" comedy. What Amanda have and not many other
actors/actresses is her facial expressions. Her facial expressions
makes the movie 10 times better. It's as if Amanda is two actresses
wrapped in one.

I really like Amanda's interaction with the dorks, the scenes when they
are all together...it's the best. Matt Long is charming as the prince.
His type of character is rare in movies and in real life. He's
handsome, funny, and do charity work. Amanda Bynes and Matt Long have
great chemistry, makes me wish they will date each other in real life.

Cyrstal Hunt is funny as the airhead southern buddy of Sydney. The
weakest link of the movie would be Sara Paxon, but she improves
throughout the movie. There is some clich√©s in the movie, but what
movie doesn't? Every movie borrows somethings from other resources.
Another rare thing that this movie have would be that it actually
teaches a great lesson which is to be yourself and not to conform.
<|_=00=_|>
Sydney White stars popular actress Amanda Bynes as the new girl in an
elite college sorority. The Kappa Sisterhood is made up of a group of
size 2 beautiful clones, all praising their mean-spirited leader,
Rachel Witchburn (Sara Paxton).

As Sydney's popularity rises, Rachel begins to feel threatened by her.
And so begins a story of rejection; acceptance and love. Sydney meets
the handsome Beta fraternity leader Tyler (Matt Long) who is besotted
by the good-natured Sydney.

With seven new geeky friends in the vortex house, Sydney decides to run
for student president. Some good clean comedy ensues. Sydney White is a
teen girl's dream movie; lots of romanticised idealism and a warm-fuzzy
ending
<|_=00=_|>
The cold hard truth is I knew walking into this film that I was going
to come out smiling having seen a movie that I really liked that most
people will not and will continually make fun of it. So I'll do
something I rarely do and right this from just my own personal
experience and how I felt about it. I'm a smack in the face sucker for
teen flicks, especially remakes of classics redone with the modern High
School/College Twist...ie: Ten Things I Hate About You, Get Over it,
and now this one. Sydney White was just cute...it had some real tongue
in cheek humor and didn't try to be anything but what it was...a genre
inducing, demographically aimed film that hits the nail on the head.
Granted you have to let go of reality and accept the nearly insulting
barrage of stereotypical clumping that the film provides but aren't all
teeny flicks like that? I admit that while watching the seven 'dorks' I
got a tinge of offensiveness creeping up because it is kind of harsh
towards certain attributes even if they were made out to be the
anti-heroes of the film. The attention to adding in little references
to the Original Snow White Story was pretty well done including a
hilarious (I thought it was hilarious) Hi-Hoe line delivered by a
couple of the 'dorks.' Some of it might have been a little forced...the
Poison Apple should have happened earlier on and the names "Witchburn"
and "Prince" were almost a little much but even still the film is cute
and funny and fluffy in all the right places.

Every time I see an Amanda Bynes film I tend to rave about her. Yes I
have a small crush...but besides that I generally feel that Bynes is a
terrific young comedian who is terrific at dead pan humor, physical
comedy and has this real down to earth quality about her and she can
still look terrific and movie star like. She's just damn likable which
is why movies like this work for her. Sure I'd like to see her give
some time to something maybe more serious but stick to what you're good
at and this is good for her!! She's terrific as Sydney White, a down
home girl that is rough around the edges more than frilly but is still
a gal at heart and you really just like her and want to see her kick
some witch butt. Now I had some nasty things to say about the movie
reviewers who commented on her appearance in this film saying she
looked awful and fake tanned and Orange because what a stupid and
shallow thing to go on about but I admit...there was definitely some
issues with her appearance. She does look orange throughout nearly the
whole film and it looks like a bad spray tan. Sara Paxton is a terrific
villain for Bynes' Sydney White. She's pretty stereotypical as far as
teen flick villains go but she does it well. I know she can do a
spectrum of characters because this is a far cry from her performance
as the naive and cute mermaid in Aquamarine but similar to her bad girl
in Sleepover. Honestly I would have liked to have seen her got more of
an appropriate ending in Sydney White. Keep your eyes on young actor
Matt Long who made an impression on short lived TV Series Jack and
Bobby and I think could have made a better Ghost Rider than Nicholas
Cage. He's mostly a show piece as Tyler Prince and the object of Bynes'
and Paxton's affections. Bynes' and him have good chemistry and he does
a great job in the role for what he's given. I honestly wish I had the
space to run down ALL the supporting actors including the 7 dorks
because they did a truly terrific job in their respective dorky roles
and they all had a certain chemistry with Bynes that was important.
There were also supporting characters like Crystal Hunt, who did a
great job, and the amazing John Schneider as Bynes' Dad.

Truth be told no one is walking away from filming Sydney White a better
or worse actor for having been on set and they won't ever see any
awards quite likely. The thing was they were picked to put forth a
certain appearance and performance and they all did it spot on and
there is nothing wrong with that I don't think. Sydney White is just an
example of know what you're good at and go with it. Bynes knows she's
adorable and likable and can play this role, same with Sara Paxton, and
even director Joe Nussbaum. This is his third movie of this type and
they've all been exactly what you would expect from the genre and there
is nothing wrong with that. I actually REALLY enjoyed Sleepover (see my
review), because it shows what it is and it doesn't try to be anything
else. And I like cute little teeny films...is that wrong?? I don't slap
a 9/10 on this because it's a must see movie that will live forever and
teach you something about life. I'm just going with my gut and how much
I enjoyed it. If you like this type of movie and want something cute,
and fluffy...you'll love it!!! 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Sydney White is the offspring of Snow White and Revenge of the Nerds.
Let's just say this is A GOOD THING, NOT A BAD THING. I actually
laughed out loud during this movie and it's the third movie Amanda
Bynes has been in that I laughed at (She's the Man, Hairspray, Sydney
White). If you loved She's the Man, then you know what kind of actress
Amanda Bynes is and you know that she can make a great movie. Sydney's
love interest, Tyler Prince, is the perfect guy. He's sweet, caring,
gorgeous, lovable, charming, and is not at all like a typical frat guy.
He's crazy about Sydney because she stands out from all the sorority
look-alikes. Sydney also meets 7 adorable and hysterical dork/nerds who
live in the Vortex (a home for those who do not fit in). Sydney thinks
that it's best if they run the Student Council (sounds a little like
Revenge of the Nerds) so that their "outsider" voices, as well as other
non-sorority/fraternity students, can be heard. This is the kind of
movie all teenage girls (and maybe some guys) will love. The actors are
great, the script is great, and the movie is just fantastic. I'd
recommend this movie to anyone for any occasion. GO SEE SYDNEY
WHITE!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Call me sheltered, I work a lot. I never saw the trailers for this
movie nor read the preview. I had to watch it twice before I realized
that there was a correlation between it and the Disney classic "Snow
White".

That being said, my 9 year old daughter, 18 year old son, and my 40
plus year old wife and I enjoyed this movie very much. The movie has a
comedic presentation with a slightly serious undertone. It shows a very
basic lesson while keeping it entertaining. The message: "Be Yourself".

I have know idea why the movie is rated as PG-13. The worst vocabulary
they use is b***h, and it is along the same lines as The Princess
Diaries (In my Opinion). As for sexual undertones ??? I saw more on
Shrek 3.

If you are a parent, teenager, or young adult I think you would enjoy
this movie (unless you are Grumpy).
<|_=00=_|>
"Sydney White" is the typical losers-become-winners where we cheer for
the underdogs.

Amanda Bynes is Sydney White, a freshman in college, who doesn't fit in
with her Greek sorority. Determined to fight them she teams up with 7
'dorks' and launches a campaign to win back the school. Yes it is
supposed to be a modern update of Snow White which I find lame, but
it's easy to ignore that.

It has all of the characters you expect to find, the cute tomboy, the
pretty and popular mean girl, the cute and popular but also sweet guy,
and the geek (7 of them in this case). The great thing about these
characters is that the important ones, who are supposed to be more than
just caricatures, actually are.

And of course the highlight is Amanda Bynes, she is funny and sweet and
pretty and very easy to like. Most people are familiar with Bynes so if
you have liked her previous films ("What a Girl Wants" (2003) or "She's
the Man" (2006)) then you should like her here. If you are not a fan of
hers then I respect your opinion but think you're missing something,
and you should probably also skip this.

"Sydney White" is everything that you want in a cute, sweet, feel good
PG movie. I recommend it.
