
I'm not the only one to notice the pattern in the Coens' filmography:
"Blood Simple." was followed by "Raising Arizona", "Fargo" by "The Big
Lebowski", and "No Country for Old Men" by "Burn After Reading". The
main concern one had about this film is whether it would be an
"Intolerable Cruelty" or a "Big Lebowski" for the Coens. Let's put it
this way: the reviews have been mixed, especially from major mainstream
media critics. Guess what other Coen comedy received mixed reviews and
was accused of being a somewhat tired mess? Yep, "The Big Lebowski".

The Coens' sense of humor is very distinctive, and I'm not talking
about stuff like "Intolerable Cruelty" (this one the mainstream media
liked, go figure) and "The Ladykillers", which featured numerous
commercial concessions. I'm talking about the vicious, cruel,
misanthropic farce that gets self-important critics' knickers in a
twist. Describing "Burn After Reading" as a screwball spy farce makes
it sound much more "Austin Powers" than it is. There is a lot of
silliness, but the sort of silliness one finds in a Howard Hawks
comedy, not in most comedies that have been made recently. It's a
screwball comedy but a pretty dark one.

This is most certainly an acquired taste. It is not going to go down
well with people who can't laugh at murder, things going terribly wrong
for innocent people, or the Cones' trademark dialogue that pops up even
in 'serious' movies like "Fargo" and "No Country for Old Men". However,
"Burn After Reading" was seemingly tailor-made for my cruel sense of
humor, as I found it to be easily the most inspired comedy script in a
long time. It's a conspiracy espionage thriller with no stakes, nothing
to fight over, a bunch of complete fools and idiots caught in the
middle of it ("a league of morons" if you listen to John Malkovich's
character), and disastrous consequences for just about everyone. Take
out the jokes and you could have a tragedy but as it stands this is the
funniest movie the Coens have made since "The Big Lebowski", if not the
best, and that includes "O Brother, Where Art Thou?". 

One really shouldn't know anything about the plot or how it unfolds
prior to seeing it, as this is a film which is far more
intricately-plotted than most critics are giving it credit for. The
basic concept is that Frances McDormand and Brad Pitt's characters come
across a disc they think contains top secret intelligence. What follows
is, as described above, a thriller with no stakes and a bunch of
idiots. It's one of those movies where you really shouldn't be laughing
(for ethical reasons) but are, and it will have you laughing through
your disapproval for basically the entirety of the film after the
opening fifteen minutes or so, which are rough in comparison to the
rest of the film, and to be honest the only thing that keeps this film
from being absolutely brilliant and the Coens' best movie since
"Lebowski". Just don't go in expecting a movie that looks as beautiful
as many of their movies do- Lubezki is no Deakins, at least not based
on his work here, and the Coens are very clearly attempting to emulate
in many ways the look of the sort of thriller they're basing this on.
It's functional, well-shot, and well-directed, but the writing and
acting are the main attractions here.

Of course, "Burn After Reading" will be dismissed as having little
worth and for being a disposable farce by many. Well, if only they knew
how hard it is to do comedy well. I'd reckon this was harder to write
than the (admittedly tremendous) "No Country for Old Men", which was
adapted from a novel that might as well have been a screenplay if
formatted correctly. The movie may not start brilliantly (not that it
isn't good even early on), but once the Coens start firing on all
cylinders they never stop, and the dream cast certainly doesn't either
(Brad Pitt has a smaller role than most cast members here, but he is
absolutely brilliant in the role), showing tremendous comic skill that
few would have guessed most of them had. The final scene may very well
be one of the best I have seen in a long, long time. 

"What a clusterf-ck!", indeed.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Nobody is quite there in this new bright farce by the Coen brothers.
The plot is a smart excuse for a movie about nothing but appearing to
be about a lot of things. Going backwards and forwards at the same
time. Talk about "The Russians?" or planning to write a memoir. Brad
Pitt is priceless and the innocence of his character is so believable
that I wondered how many more surprises this actor has up his sleeve.
He is a joy. George Clooney is also terrific and the Coens move through
their crossed purposes with speed and elegance. I was totally immerse
in their universe even if I didn't quite care what was going on. John
Malkovich, Frances McDormand, Richard Jenkins and the unnerving Tilda
Swinton complete the package of this movie that feels as if it was made
for the sheer pleasure of it.
<|_=00=_|>
The point here is that this movie is for adults, with adult themes and
adult situations. As with all Coen brother movies, there are going to
be people who love it and people that hate it. There doesn't seem to be
much middle ground. I loved this movie. It was entertaining, dark and
very funny. I really liked "No Country for Old Men" but I have to say,
"Burn After Reading" was a more enjoyable film for me. Some of the
reviews here have said that the film rambles around pointlessly,
without any clear direction; well I have to disagree, if you are paying
attention and you are an adult, you should have no problem
understanding what is going on. The best part of the movie is watching
this great cast perform brilliantly with the odd-ball material they are
given. They are all straight men for the Coen brother's antics. There
is violence, bad language, and everyone is sleeping with everyone else,
especially George Clooney. But the movie is very funny and while the
rest of Hollywood seems to have lost there way, the Coen brothers
continue to put out intelligent, entertaining and thought provoking
material.
<|_=00=_|>
BURN AFTER READING is laugh-out-loud funny. It's more "Big Lebowski"
than "Intolerable Cruelty," though there are wisps of both, but "Burn"
is not quite up to Lebowski's genius. Still, it is very, very funny and
loads of fun.

From the opening moments, the Coens' latest movie -- a spy-thriller
spoof -- hurls the viewer on a hilarious romp through Absurd-land. What
better place to set such a story than Washington, DC?

The story involves a demoted government worker (John Malkovich) who
finds himself the target of an extortion scheme by two gym workers,
riotously played by Frances McDormand (a would-be gym bunny if only she
could afford some plastic surgery) and Brad Pitt (a high-energy,
arm-thrusting, hip-shaking fitness trainer-cum-"good Samaritan" who
lands himself way in over his head). The romp soon turns dark.

As usual, the Coens' dialog is a real treat. When a co-worker points to
Malkovich's alcohol problems as a reason for his demotion, Malkovich
retorts, "You're a Mormon. Next to you we all have a drinking problem."
And as usual in Coen-land, there's a clash between high and low brow.
Malkovich's pronunciations of "mem-wahhh" for "memoir" is a hoot, and
his correction of Pitt's mistaken "report" for "rapport" propels a
conflict between classes and types -- symbols of a society in trouble,
whose priorities are askew.

As in the Coen brothers' 1987 box-office hit RAISING ARIZONA,
obsessions fuel the plot, though this time it's body (not baby)
obsession. McDormand is hellbent on getting expensive elective surgery
to "reinvent" herself. Pitt is a workout addict, who can barely stop
moving long enough to think straight. And George Clooney, who can only
stop talking when it's time to go running or jump into bed with
someone, plays a G-man fixated on sex. Notions of "intelligence" and
all that the word connotes (along with its antonyms) mix into the
film's dark comedic brew of unintended consequences.

Where does it go? I don't want to give away any of the twists to answer
that question in depth. But I would disagree with the critics who claim
it doesn't go anywhere. The movie and its over-the-top, needless
violence show how secretive missions even by bumbling know-nothings
(whose only knowledge of undercover ops seems to come from spy flicks)
can have disastrous outcomes. Secrets in Washington? Sure sounds like a
topic we should all be better versed in.

- Erica Rowell Author: The Brothers Grim: The Films of Ethan and Joel
Coen http://www.amazon.com/Brothers-Grim-Films-Ethan-Joel/dp/0810858509
<|_=00=_|>
It makes me sad that, with such great actors to work with, the best the
Coens could do is make a mish-mash comedy/drama/horror that was
lukewarm at best and boring at its worst. I felt sorry for the actors;
they had so little of interest to say or do. I almost fell asleep about
20 minutes in. Where was the madcap screwball comedy? Where was the
dark ironic humor? It was all just one-dimensional darkness. Where was
the good editing? (i.e. we never saw Clooney holding the gun but we
know he shot Pitt in the closet.) Instead we get pointless, morose and
dull. This movie coulda been a contender. These characthers coulda been
somebody. Instead they're really just forgettable. And that's just a
waste.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a point in this movie that George Clooney's character, Harry
Pfarrer shows Frances McDormand's character Linda Litzke something that
we've seen him working on for about half the movie. It was so
surprising when I first saw it, that at first, I didn't even know what
it was.

Once again, the Coens have created wonderful characters, including
Clooney, who is a womanizer and paranoid that people are following him,
and McDormand, who just wants plastic surgery in order to look better.
Also, there's John Malkovich as Osbourne Cox, who "doesn't have a
drinking problem," and maybe the best in the movie, Brad Pitt as Chad,
a clueless gym employee who is pushed along by McDormand.

The only character that isn't up to par with the rest is Tilda
Swinton's character of Katie Cox, Osbourne's wife. She doesn't get as
many laughs as the rest, and it seems like the Coens just needed her as
a plot device rather than an actual character. However, she may not be
funny, but she does play the character well.

The writing is brilliant and the Coens weave the story in such a way
that it reminds me of their previous movie, The Big Lebowski. In the
end, as J.K. Simmons character sums it up himself, nothing really
happens, but while watching it all unfold, you can't help but laugh at
the absurdity.
<|_=00=_|>
Norman Cousins would have loved the Coen Brothers' "Burn After
Reading." The late great Saturday Review editor had treated his illness
with Marx Brothers movies, having "made the joyous discovery that 10
minutes of genuine belly laughter had an anesthetic effect and would
give me at least two hours of pain-free sleep."

I have never felt healthier than after 96 minutes of explosive and
grateful laughter at the "Burn" screening, also marveling at the array
of British-stage caliber acting from "Fargo"-invoking Frances
McDormand, witchy-icy Tilda Swinton, a more-manic-than-ever John
Malkovich, and a dozen major players, such as J.K. Simmons as the
deadpan CIA boss and Richard Jenkins as the former Greek Orthodox
priest, now running an upscale gym.

Others may lead the cast list with George Clooney and Brad Pitt, but to
me, their performances were just a bit on the self-conscious side,
trying too hard. At any rate, it's a great cast, and while the plot
might have turned into a dud in somebody else's treatment, the Coen
Brothers' writing is hilarious, their zingers deadly.

A critic, probably with bad digestion, has decried this "very black
comedy set in a blanched, austere-looking Washington, D.C.  an
uninspiring and uncomfortable place in which everyone betrays everyone
else, and the emotional tone veers from icy politeness to spitting rage
and back again." If I had a chance to think, instead of enjoying
"Burn," I would have contemplated Molière and Evelyn Waugh, their
comedies of manners, psychological insight, and unbridled great humor.

Yes, there are betrayals (none better than the totally unexpected one
at the end of the film), and there is rage, but all contained within a
glorious bubble of writing-directing-acting excellence. "Burn" grips
and holds, surprises and entertains, it is a virtuoso piece.

Don't be misled by the a "action-trailer" on TV, saturating the
airwaves; it says nothing of the film. Malkovich punching Pitt over a
compromising CD of spook stuff is not at the heart of this - the
McDormand character's pursuit of cosmetic surgery is, what with her
self-examination, a lengthy session with the surgeon (Jeffrey DeMunn,
in a brilliant turn), her desperate quest for a way to pay for it.
Funny and going deep at the same time, "Burn" presents a series of
character studies (hence the thought of Molière), in the context of
mannered yet true social interactions (Waugh).

Skip descriptions of the plot, reject self-righteous denunciations of
smart skepticism and charming evil, go and wallow in life-affirming
laughter.
<|_=00=_|>
The Coen Brothers' "Burn After Reading" is a movie so thoughtless, so
arrogant, and so poorly executed that it has forced me to re-consider
my opinion of their previous films and seriously raised the question of
whether they've been frauds all along.

Joel & Ethan C. have always had an "offbeat" sense of humor and an
"unusual" way of making movies, but fans like myself have always
reasoned they were simply following their Muse and making the movies
they had to make. With "Burn After Reading" they present us with an
espionage "spoof" whose sense of humor is on par with that of the
world's worst rejected sitcom pilot, and you have to wonder: Is this
what they've truly been all along?

Brad Pitt, George Clooney & Frances McDormand all star as Themselves;
no attempt is made at building characters or adhering to any storyline
reality. Brad dances because he likes to dance, George panics because
it worked well in "O Brother." The "plot" is ostensibly about amateurs
entering the spy game with comedic results, but it breaks down so fast
and so completely it's not even worth mentioning.

No matter how many times McDormand blinks cute and begs us to remember
Fargo's Marge there's no hiding the fact that the finished product here
looks as if there was NO development done whatsoever. The movie feels
like Joel & Ethan thought it would be a lark and filmed the whole deal
in a week with a digital camera. The garbage that resulted is the death
of cinema: Hollywood home videos with million dollar paychecks.

I reserve the F grade for movies that are beyond bad movies that have
somehow crossed the line between respectable failure and offensive
insult. If you like movies you'll avoid this one, and if you like the
Coen Brothers you won't after witnessing the crime they commit here.
Stay far away.

GRADE: F
<|_=00=_|>
This film will not be to everyones taste, and I wholly understand the
polarised responses.A star studded cast enjoy a knowing, wordy script,
where dialogue counts, a Coen brothers trademark.However not very much
happens, and the narrative is disjointed, so the pace of the story is
very staccato.But once again the result is something very wide of the
Hollywood mainstream and is all the more satisfying for it.

A 95 minute running time,, and several separate but interwoven plots,
mean that screen time for individual actors is limited. Consequently
each shines in their given roles, relishing the word play and eking the
maximum out of each situation.No scene is dwelled upon, and the
occasional bloody outburst of violence, or titillating appearance of a
Sybian machine , is shown then moved on from before you have time to
work out exactly what is going on.

The script is littered with double entendres, "running gags (pun
intended)and lines aimed straight at the audience from the screen.
No-one knows what is going on, or what has gone on, or what is going to
happen, and is all the better for it.A mini-masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
The one pet peeve I have is when the writing is bad they start throwing
in bad language hoping it will get a laugh. I'm sorry but I think if
you took out every "F" bomb dropped in this movie... there'd be no
dialogue.

The movie was disjointed... I know some movies are meant to be avant
guard... but even those weird artsy movies make SOME sense. There were
too many things going on, it seemed at times even the actors didn't
know what scene they were involved in.

The plot between the Linda and her boss was just stupid and misplayed
by the writers. And just when you think there's FINALLY going to be
something amusing... they "SHOCK" you back into realizing the movie
sucks.

The whole movie was a boring yawn fest. I'm not sure what so many
people saw in this film. I felt like burning the movie projector after
watching! And the ending, don't get me started... definitely not worth
even the matinée prices.

The only thing I liked about this movie was Sledge Hammer star David
Rasche, and only because it gave me a Sledge Hammer flashback.

I love George Clooney and Brad Pitt, and I usually like the Coen
brothers... but this is one movie I wouldn't even wait till it came on
DVD for. Just avoid it.
