
What a wonderful surprise: Yesterday my sister calls me and tells me
that there's a new film by the director of Brick, playing at the Mill
Valley Film Festival. "I'm there!"

Even before we get in the theater, I know we're in for a different
experience. A pair of toughs with metal detectors wave us down for
hidden cameras and demand we turn our cell phones off. I'm surprised we
didn't have to take our shoes off. Endgame Entertainment certainly
doesn't want any leaks.

Once inside, the director, Rian Johnson, shows up just before the show
starts, fresh off a flight from Abu Dhabi no less. He gives a short
interview with Mark Fishkin (long time director of the festival),
coming off as a very charming, self-effacing, funny and unpretentious
fellow. I like him immediately. Hollywood has not corrupted him (yet).

Like Tarantino, Johnson has closely studied films and makes constant
references and nods to The Classics, especially from the 40s and 50s.
Unlike Tarantino, Johnson writes more original stories and has good
taste and far gentler sensibilities. Obvious influences include: Wes
Anderson, The Cohen Bros, Billy Wilder, John Huston.

The film itself? Instant classic. It's got all the elements you could
want in a Hollywood-style movie: Charming characters, plot twists, tons
of gags, an incredibly beautiful leading lady, sumptuous sets and
locations, and an overall sense "gee-whiz-isn't-this-fun!"

And it's classy, too. It doesn't resort to needless, sensationalist sex
and violence. The writer respects and honors the audience's
intelligence, a all-too-rare occurrence these days.

You could tell that the actors had a blast with the sometimes subtle,
sometimes slap-stick script, relishing their characters' quirks and
foibles.

Overall, Brothers Bloom almost manages perfection. It's one fault lies
in the resolution, the last 5 minutes where it's tone abruptly changes
for darker. Without giving anything away, I feel that it was too
heavy-handed, considering the generally light and wacky spirit that had
predominated. The rest of the audience seemed to feel the same way,
given the hushed mood as the credits rolled. If the producers have an
alternate ending up their sleeves, I suggest they use it, even it has
to be somewhat ambiguous. 

Otherwise, I'm happy to contribute to the positive buzz. I really think
Brothers Bloom could be a huge hit, even a timeless classic.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Brothers Bloom" is a movie stock full of great ideas that it
executes without any apparent knowledge of what makes a movie work.
It's filmed in some of the most beautiful places in the world and
captures them blandly. It's step-by-step full of great con-games that
we don't care about. It's got one of the most interesting heroines in
years that it ultimately leaves to the side, unaware of how to use her.
It's constantly suggesting great artists (Melville, Dostoevsky) and
it's opening act - a Ricky Jay-narrated history of the Brothers Bloom's
humble beginnings - promises greatness. But the movie doesn't deliver.

The story: Mark Ruffalo and Adrien Brody started conning as children,
and never stopped, and now, as adults, they're locked together like the
siblings in "Les Enfants Terribles," only capable of inhabiting their
own world of deception and whimsy. Ruffalo's the head and likes it that
way and Brody's the heart and wants out, wants to find happiness
somewhere else, in the "unwritten life." Ruffalo sets up One Last Job
for the two of them, and the mark is Rachel Weisz (the heroine), a
reclusive millionaire and collector of hobbies. As this is a con-movie,
any further explanation is unnecessary.

Rian Johnson, the film's director and director of "Brick," has fine
taste, as he flaunts constantly, but his movies are an argument that
good taste does not a great artist make. Like the lowliest imitator, he
wants to do something like his favorites, but he hasn't put much
thought into why those movies worked on him. "The Big Sleep" has the
period dialogue, the shadows and all that, but it's great because of
the chemistry, the mood, what's happening under the surface. "Brick"
has no mood, it's all surface, all words and cinematography, a truly
empty film. With "The Brothers Bloom," Johnson is trying to make "The
Sting" by way of Wes Anderson, the French New Wave (and a little David
Mamet), but mostly misses the comedy of Anderson, the style of the New
Wave and doesn't even come close to the metaphysical suspense of a
Mamet film.

For instance: Ruffalo has a sidekick/girlfriend played by Rinko
Kikuchi. Her name is "Bang Bang" because she likes explosives, and she
doesn't speak a single line of dialogue. This alone is gimmicky enough,
an easy way of forging a Character without thinking for a second who
she might be. The movie explains she just up and appeared to the
Brothers one day, and will disappear, one day, in the same fashion. So
she's an almost supernatural character, I guess, but to what purpose?
Quirkiness? Kikuchi eats up the attention in any scene she's in, simply
because we want to know more about her, but Johnson insults her and the
audience by keeping her a prop, like the hamburger phone in "Juno." In
one Emotional Montage at the end, she sings, which would be a great
moment in a better movie but here is handled so off-the-cuff and
casually we just sort of shrug it off. A couple short scenes later she
disappears into thin air in front of Brody, so we think, that was it?
And then she pops up again, to do nothing, and disappears again.
Johnson doesn't seem to be thinking at all.

But he might fool you. The dialogue is finely-honed, but too much so,
it becomes awkward, clunky, speaking to ideas Johnson hasn't completed
rather than ones the characters are having spontaneously. The movie
really, really wants to be as dialogue-driven as a Mamet movie but
falls short in its excess of artifice and complete lack of wit. That
said, Brody, Weisz and Ruffalo create likable characters simply by
appearing on screen; they're all such great actors we're almost happy
enough just to watch them have some fun. Weisz especially, her
eccentric is so convincing at times it makes the movie's shortchanging
her so much more troubling. Her character is built up to have a mystery
about her, something intriguing seems to lie beneath the surface, but
as it goes on we sadly realize that's more to do with Weisz's skill and
less to do with Johnson's writing.

The plot keeps going and going and going, the movie feels twice as long
as "The Dark Knight" and about a quarter as interesting. There's a con,
and then there's another con, and then another, and they're all pretty
well thought-out except that the outcomes don't mean anything to us
because Johnson hasn't spent enough time figuring out who his
characters are, and what we want for them. Brody is frustratingly
ineffectual, and Ruffalo convinces us he knows all the answers, he just
never tells us what they are. Robbie Coltrane and Maximilian Schell pop
up, Schell with an eye-patch and a drama-class-level costume, and do
nothing.

And then there's the last revelation, and the ending, which could've
been beautiful and poignant, if only Johnson had any idea how to take
us there. He doesn't. His head's in the right place, he just needs to
use it more, and  most importantly  discover his heart. Not a bad
movie, just not one worth seeing.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
While the complete polar opposite of Brick, Johnson left the Dashiell
Hammett prose and instead decided to delve into Wes Anderson territory.
His The Brothers Bloom is a smart, witty adventure that takes some
unexpected turns on its journey, never lets a detail fall into
obscurity, and shows that if nothing else, he is a high caliber
storyteller that should be around for a long time, not rehashing the
same thing over and over again, but churning out refreshingly new and
unique yarns to entertain and enlighten.

This tale is about a duo of con menthe best in the worldwho reunite
to do one last job. The younger, Bloom, has been playing the roles
written by Stephen since they were children, always embodying the
character so easily because it allowed him to be that which was not
himself. After having fallen in love with too many marks, only to watch
as they swindled and left them out to dry, Bloom is ready to quit and
goes into self-imposed exile for three years until his partner finds
him and rounds him up for one last big score. That score involves an
eccentric shut-in, a woman who has never left her mansion and collects
hobbies in order to entertain herself. A master with a deck of cards,
juggler extraordinaire, harp player, and ping-pong champ, amongst other
activities, there is little she does not know. This epileptic
photographer is anxious to go off on an adventure and opening up to the
Brothers Bloom is her perfect opportunity to do so, and their best
chance at an easy million dollars.

What the men did not account for was her inexhaustible sense of
enthusiasm and uncanny knack for the con game. Getting herself out of
situations that the brothers can't even fathom and catching on to
things so quickly, it's as though the mark becomes the professional,
however, that is exactly Stephen's plan. She is a woman of
intelligence, beauty, and unique without compare. Penelope is exactly
the girl that Bloom has been looking for, but of course, she is
discovered in one of Stephen's stories, accessible only until they must
cut her loose. Yet, here comes the first "what if" of the film. What if
our orchestrator has concocted this all for Bloom, a con on a grand
scale in order to give him the life he always wanted? Bloom does say
that Penelope feels just like one of Stephen's characters, but as he
says in his defense, "the day I con you, is the day I die." We can only
hope those words don't become prophetically true.

Johnson weaves an intricate shell game for his characters to roam
through, crossing paths, discovering secrets, telling lies, and
possibly conning each other. No one truly can tell what's real because
not only are they unsure themselves, they know that every one of them
has the potential to make-up an elaborate scheme to confuse and
manipulate. Ruffalo is the true artist at this game, crudely drawing up
a plan of attack in brainstorm bubble trees, thinly veiling his tales
with inside jokes that a woman like Penelope (Weisz) is well-informed
enough to see through, yet too naïve to put together. Straight from the
start, a childhood narrated by Ricky Jay, these boys have gotten what
they wanted and planned to perfection. Trained by the nefarious Diamond
Dog, the men, (Brody portraying the other, Bloom), have eclipsed their
master and took the world by storm. Along with their pyrotechnics guru
Bang Bang, (Rinko Kikuchi) and a select cast of regular actors (Robbie
Coltrane as the Belgian and a great string of cameos in a bar scene
early on with Nora Zehetner, Noah Segan, and a
blink-and-you'll-miss-him Joseph Gordon Levitt all showing some Brick
love), the boys always get what they want. Ultimately attempting to
create the perfect conso well planned out and airtight that it happens
all by itselfthis con becomes reality and everyone gets exactly what
they wanted.

The Brothers Bloom is told in a storybook fashion with bright colors
and in-focus frames. Johnson jam-packs each composition with detail
upon detail, never shying away from having an important plot point
occur in the background, behind a conversation or action by our leads
at the forefront. Most times they are jokes, lending some levity to the
situation, one that becomes ever more dark as the charade goes along;
unexpectedly dark, yet perfectly so. His use of humor infuses a heart
into the proceedings and a true bond and relationship between Stephen
and Bloom, two men that learn to hate each other at the end of a job,
but always come to the others help when needed at the start. You must
be diligent to the environment surrounding our actors, as it is just as
much playing a role as they, helping a truly bold and intricate story
be disguised as a simple one. Very slight on first appearance, it is
the fact that it's so well told that makes it seem simpler than it
really is. Without any bloated superfluities or weakly handled
tangents, this tightly woven tapestry lives on its own at a breakneck
speed, culminating with a spectacular final twist, an end that had been
building up right from the start in that bourgeois playground during
the boys' foster home placement. The Brothers Bloom look out for each
other and never let the other down, no matter what damage it may cause
to themselves. In the end, they do it all for their brother, anything
they can to make the other's life a success.
<|_=00=_|>
The Brothers Bloom, dir. Rian Johnson-The film had some very good
elements: -The visual look was terrific. I wasn't sure if it was a
period piece or it was set in the late 2000's, because there was a
definite lack of cell phones and other modern day aparatuses in the
frame. It was very retro, yet very much in the present -Rachel Weicz
was such a fascinating character. How could a woman that beautiful and
rich be so lonely? Weicz manages to pull it off. An absolutely amazing
performance and kudos to her for learning all those talents (apparently
she had to learn all those talents) -Some of the dialogue was
exceptional. Penelope's speech about reinventing her life and refusing
to see her loneliness as a weakness was definitely thought-provoking.

At the same time, the film on the whole didn't make any sense. It was
too many twists to the point where you just didn't care what was going
on screen because none of it was real and there wasn't much suspense to
convince you that the film might have been heading in any other
direction. It would have always made more sense for Adrian Brody's
character to just marry Penelope and inherit her fortune.
<|_=00=_|>
This may be my first review of a movie for IMDb. Can't remember if it
is or it isn't but the point is I don't normally feel compelled to
write about movies on this website. I had the pleasure of seeing this
movie in advance at the New Beverly Cinema in Los Angeles this
February. I had not yet seen Rian Johnson's previous film Brick, so
going in I had no biased opinion about the director or any expectations
about what I was going to see. Basically what I saw was a movie that
had a great story to tell. And it knew it, so it acted accordingly. I
don't think going into detail about the events in the movie will do
anyone any good, so I'll stick to a vague approach here. The movie has
a similar vibe to Wes Anderson's work, but only in a purely superficial
sense. The plot is of the "caper" mold and concerns two sibling con men
and their virtually mute sidekick on a quest to trick rich people out
of a lot of money. The actors are all first rate. Adrien Brody is
essentially the lead, but Mark Ruffalo and Rinko Kikuchi round out the
main group of characters. That is, until we meet the real star of this
movie. Rachel Weisz has always been great in everything I've seen her
in, but she commands the screen in this movie like I've never seen
before. I'd put her on an early shortlist for Best Supporting Actress
at next year's Oscars. Ultimately this movie made such a strong
impression on me because of how well her character worked for me and
the strong chemistry she had with Adrien Brody. I strongly recommend
you avoid details about this movie in order to get swept up by this
wonderful story, like I did. This is a must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
The Brothers Bloom unwinds the story of two confidence men, an Asian
sidekick and their rich but isolated mark. The Brothers Bloom is a
charming off kilter dramedy about love.

Bloom (Adrien Brody) and his brother Stephen (Mark Ruffalo) work as
confidence men with their explosive sidekick Bang Bang (Rinko Kikuchi).
Tired of the life, Bloom tells his brother he's done. His brother talks
him into one final con against Penelope Stamp (Rachael Weisz.) Penelope
is a rich, eccentric shut-in who has yet to live. They take advantage
of her loneliness in a scam meant to satisfy her need for adventure.

Rian Johnson sees the world in The Brothers Bloom the way an archer
fish sees bugs. The archer fish hunts bugs above the water's surface by
shooting water at the bug from below the water line. When looking up
from underneath everything looks like it is one place but actually is
in a slightly different place because water refracts light, changing
the view for the submerged. The archer fish has to see things slightly
cockeyed in order to get the archery right. Rian Johnson took a
slightly crooked approach to get the cinematic physics just right.

Penelope Stamp is the Robin Hood of cinematic archer fish. Everything
about her life, her development, and her emotions are delightfully off
balance. She isn't brilliant but she had dedicated herself to learning
how to do many strange and obscure things. It wasn't good enough for
Rian Johnson to make Penelope interested in pinhole cameras (a camera
made by putting a piece of photo paper in a light-tight container and
poking a pin hole in it to expose the paper), it had to be a pin hole
camera made of a watermelon. Johnson made sure Penelope is beautiful,
but by casting Weisz, made her an interesting beauty.

It isn't just the nature of the characters, but also how they talk.
Johnson commits so fully to this strange-ified world, that dialogue
that would warrant a call to the loony bin in real life, seems natural
in the world created in The Brothers Bloom.

The downside to making the characters fit so naturally in their world
is jokes or emotions that might resonate deeply in our world sometimes
fall a little flat in The Brothers Bloom. There are no gut busting
jokes but occasionally the audience finds themselves chuckling. Cheeks
will not be soaked in tears, but occasionally a frog may find way into
the throats of the viewers.

The Brothers Bloom is an endearing quirk-filled film sure to whisk the
audience away on a flying crime filled love carpet.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say , this movie was certainly a breath of fresh air compared
to the rest of the crap that has been coming out of the big production
houses.

If your looking for a different movie all together , with a good story
line , great acting and lovely music score ( composed by Nathan Johnson
, its perfectly matches the essence being portrayed in the movie) ,
this is it.

Adrien Brody , Mark Ruffalo and Rachel Weiz are just amazing through
out the movie . The chemistry between Brody and Ruffalo is certainly a
high light of the movie , they don't look like brothers but throughout
the movie you hardly notice. Rachel Weiz is as always amazing. Love her
character.

Of course i cannot go away without mentioning Rinko Kikuchi as Bang
Bang ,hardly any dialogues in the movie apart from a few one liners
,including "FUCK ME " ( you cannot miss it :P ) she definitely steals
the show as the quirky mysterious sidekick .

I am writing this right after watching the movie so my rating as of now
is definitely 9, a must watch if your tired of the usual movies hitting
the screens.

Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The Brothers Bloom starts off with a bang of cinematic energy. We're
introduced, by a kind of whimsical narrator not unlike one might have
remembered from Pushing Daisies, to the brothers, Stephen and Bloom, as
children in a town where everything is one-note: one group of kids, one
store, one this or that. Stephen, the more inventive one of the duo (or
rather, the one that will whip up a plan with a quirk or two not unlike
Owen Wilson in Bottle Rocket), devises the first con to be that of
intriguing the hell out of a group of kids- first part introducing
Bloom to a girl, which he likes right away- and then leading to a cave
that tricks them all into believing something is there which, of
course, is not.

This entire section, about five to ten minutes, is a brilliant short
film, self-contained within itself and donning the kind of energy that,
again, can be comparable to Wes Anderson. This is not to knock Rian
Johnson as an original talent. He is. But for anyone that's seen any of
Anderson's films, specifically Bottle Rocket and Rushmore and Life
Aquatic, this is that kind of speedy intro that includes very precise
pans and movements with the camera and facial expressions that mark
this as something, well, "different". This also appears to be how the
rest of the story will pan out, this distinctive, acute and stylish
endeavor of film-making, as the brothers, grown up (Adrien Brody as
Bloom, Mark Ruffalo as Stephen) are continuing with their cons until
Bloom wants out, leading up to the typical "one-last-con" deal where-in
they'll con a reclusive New Jersey heiress Penelope (Rachel Weisz) who
has way too much time on her hands as well as money for the taking.

Then there's the complications, of romance between Bloom and Penelope,
and the complication that she's let in on Stephen and Bloom being
"artifact smugglers", then the appearance of a certain nefarious figure
known as "Diamond Dog", and meanwhile their Silent Bob figure, Bang
Bang (Rino Kikuchi), tags along as someone who we only find out late in
the game of the story that she has a cell phone (?) and can make
origami at just the right moment.

All of this makes The Brothers Bloom sound quite plot driven, not to
mention the ups and downs and twists and turns of the cons that happen,
or don't, between the brothers, Penelope, the revelations, etc.
Depending on the viewer, and how much they'll want to believe or,
frankly, how many movies they've seen of this type (one could see this
as being a slick parody of a film like 2003's Confidence, also
co-starring Rachel Weisz if memory serves), it's like following
magicians doing work, not believing a thing or believing everything. Or
some of it, perhaps. It's almost like the Prestige if it didn't
actually want the audience to believe in magic. More that Johnson wants
the audience to make the distinction between characters who draw their
own reality and can't seem to break out into their own "unwritten"
roles.

And yet, for all the story's twists and turns, its strengths are in the
characters. It's actually, not too unlike Anderson (again, sorry), more
European influenced in that regard as it takes us along on its journey
because of the characters, not the other way around. This helps since
the characters all work with their respective players, more or less.
More because of Adrien Brody and Rachel Weisz, who play off each other
wonderfully as an at-first awkward couple who get further romantically
involved (there's a wonderful, spot-on charming scene where we see them
kiss, and we understand clearly Penelope is having her first
French-style) and connect closest with how Johnson casts them. Less
with Ruffalo, who grew on me as the film went on, mainly towards the
end (his last scene, without spoiling much, is a keeper for his
extended reel), since he's meant to be conniving and devilish but
doesn't really fit in even as he's good at delivering the lines and
countering Brody and Weisz.

The other way it's also European is that it's meant to be, and is, a
director's tour-de-force. As the sophomore effort of Rian Johnson,
after his first very impressive debut Brick (which, I should note, also
tooled playfully with conventions of a genre as he attempts here), he's
aiming quite high. The only problem that I encountered with it was
that, perhaps by some proxy of the script, it takes a lot to really get
emotionally wound up with these people.

The style of his camera, the tricks of his editing, are like cons in
and of themselves, but there's (apologies for this over-used word)
quirks to the proceedings that deflate some scenes that would work much
better in straightforward terms (I may have been the only one rolling
my eyes at the "knickname" for Bang Bang being Yuengling with the line
"Yuengling, like the beer?"). Sometimes this excess-of-style works
well, like when we flash through all of the "hobbies" Penelope does in
her countless spare time at her mansion. Other times, sad to say, it
just calls attention to itself without being cool-hip ala Ocean's
Eleven or warm-hearted ala (one more time) an Anderson picture.

And yet, for the gripes I might have had, it's impossible for me to
ignore what Johnson has shown here and in Brick. He delivers characters
we want to watch and situations that unfold with diverting,
entertaining results, even as one might never fully believe what will
happen next. Or maybe we do. He's a director that isn't going away, and
to me this is a good thing. That's no con. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Conning Linguists: The Brothers Bloom In a summer full of dumber than
dumb spectacle, and subtext free action porn "The Brothers Bloom" is a
breath of fresh air.

With wit, warmth, and beautiful settings galore the film creates a
delightfully wacky alternate world full of whimsy, romance, and
adventure.

At the beginning of the film we meet two orphaned brothers, Stephen
Bloom (Mark Ruffalo) and Bloom Bloom (Adrien Brody). From the age of
10, the brothers are con-artists, always spinning yarns and creating
characters, inventing new and increasingly elaborate ways of separating
their mark from his money while also giving him exactly what he wants
in life. Everything changes when Bloom decides to get out of the game
and Stephen lures him in for one last swindlea beautiful and quirky
millionaire (Rachel Weisz) who yearns for a taste of adventure.

The Brothers Bloom is the second feature from writer/director Rian
Johnson. He previously took the indie world by storm with his award
winning debut, "Brick". As with "Brick" Johnson again takes elements of
several fallow genres and remixes them into something that feels both
new and old all at once. The result is nothing short of magical. The
characters pop off the screen and the dialogue and images loop back in
on themselves making winking references that are sure to inspire fits
of giggles from anyone who stayed awake during AP Lit. But, even if you
don't recognize the title as a Dostoevsky reference, the film is sure
to entertain.

At the center of it all is Brody who is tasked with playing the
straight man during the film's increasingly convoluted comic twists and
turns. Perpetually at his side is Ruffalo, who has great fun playing
the off the wall, yet always-sincere idea man who writes his schemes
the way Russians write novels. The chemistry between the duo is
infectious. It's like the two have known each other for their entire
lives. They could not look less similar, and yet one never questions
their bond.

Weisz is absolutely electric as the object of Brody's affections and
the subject of Ruffalo's confidence game. She plays the kind of bubbly,
strange woman that really only exists in movies but imbues her with a
quiet sadness that grounds the entire picture and ensures that the more
surreal elements never take too much of a hold on the film.

Though there is only one large-scale explosion, "The Brothers Bloom"
demands the big screen treatment. It was filmed all over Europe and
South America and the locations are used to great effect. These aren't
sound stages, and it really makes a difference. Every shot is
impeccably framed, it's as if Hal Ashby shot "The Sting".

The film is not for all tastes. It requires attention from the viewer,
and plays at a leisurely pace compared to many films currently in
theaters, and some of the more action oriented beats don't quite gel
with the rest of the film, but for those who can appreciate a story
that gives itself room to breath, and for those willing to forgive the
overly long third act, there is plenty to love.

Most of the movies coming out over the next few months are simply
product, attractive, eye catching, and ultimately little more than 90
minute advertisements for the sequel. Not so with "The Brothers Bloom."
If you've got a girlfriend and you owe her a decent date movie you
can't do much better than this. If you have a boyfriend and you don't
want to make him suffer through "Ghosts of Girlfriends Past" this is a
great choice. If you've already seen all the action spectaculars,
here's something else to see. Or, you know, if you just like good
movies
<|_=00=_|>
Rachel's role, Penelope, in The Brothers Bloom is far from her
Oscar-winning effort in The Constant Gardener, but she elevates her
role putting herself on par with Tessa Quale. Weisz steals the show
here in a fun, energetic, elaborate tale, The Brothers Bloom. 

You'll be bouncing out of you seats watching this film. The script is
absolutely hilarious, the director moves fast keeping the material
alive, and the performances are classy and strong, but what guides The
Brothers Bloom (besides Weisz, of course) is the explosive editing.
It's hyperactive, but not obnoxious. It's cool , fun and hip.

Like I've stated before, Weisz steals the show. Her character Penelope
is one of the most memorable and well-written characters in recent
memory and Weisz is up to the challenge of taking on that role. She's
the most interesting character so you immediately take a liking to her.
She's so adorable as the bright, lovely character, but the great thing
about her performance is underneath all that lies great sorrow. 

The rest of the performances aren't too shabby either. Adrien Brody is
very good and convincing but it over-towered, by the other more
colorful characters. Mark Ruffalo is charming and a ridiculous ball of
fun. Rinko Kikuchi has almost no lines, but still gets big laughs. 

There are dazzling visuals including some gorgeous costumes and set
designs. This is a very funny film. Top that with the amount of energy
and entertainment throughout, you're in a for a fantastic thrill ride.
Not to mention the glorious performances, especially form the
magnificent Rachel Weisz. A delightful thrill ride and the best comedy
of 2009; 9
