
I watched step brothers yesterday for the second time after purchasing
it on DVD. For me this is always the tough test when it comes to
comedy. I watched it at a packed cinema which as you know in itself can
make a film ultimately funny without being so. But i have to say this
film still delivered the goods so well.

First up this film is STUPID it is ridiculous but it's a comedy with
Will Ferrell in it what did you honestly expect?! But my god it's funny
it really is hilarious Ferrell and Reilly make an awesome on screen
team and the comedy moments just bounce off one an other , each man
just helps make the others role as funny as it could have been. 

It gives you hilarious jokes , stupidly funny scenes , it's one of
those comedy's that so so often tries to catch you off guard and every
time it absolutely nails it! 

And underneath all the stupidity bonds are formed , compassion is found
and what really matters in life is discovered. You almost feel as if
you've learnt a little something

It's one of my personal favourite comedy movies and goes up there with
some of the greats (Blazing Saddles , Burn After Reading , Superbad ,
Knocked Up , Anchorman etc.)
<|_=00=_|>
I never in my wildest dreams thought I'd ever utter these words about a
Will Ferrell vehicle, especially one with Adam McKay as
collaboratorbesides that Pearl video The Landlord on the internet last
yearbut here it is. Step Brothers is an absolutely hilarious film.
From end to end, I don't remember the last time I've laughed this hard,
without stop. This is what Ferrell needs to do, no more of those
bio-spoofs of idiots that fall flat due to their tired joke. He is
unstoppable as a part of an ensemble when he doesn't have to be the
center of attention for an hour and half. The guy is obnoxious, and
while funny, the more freedom he gets, the more annoying he is. Having
a guy like John C. Reilly to play off of helps rein him in and give the
audience a break, allowing the jokes to breath and not become stifled
by the monotony of his schtick. Like Old School before it, Ferrell
kills in smaller doses. He has shown me that ability again here and
whereas I won't even keep Anchorman or Talladega Nights on screen when
flipping through the television, I seriously can't wait to revisit this
one again.

There is no bloated plot involved or even a love interest to distract
from the comedy like the previous two "Everyman" entries in the
Ferrell/McKay tag team's canon. I do believe that is the most
refreshing aspect here; they finally see that you don't need a
contrived romantic bent to be successful, we as an audience don't need
to see the schlubby guy get the attractive girl, that is a cliché used
way too often. We go to see a film like this to be entertained and to
cause us to wet our pants with unstoppable laughter. As a result there
are no lulls as even when the two stars begin to see how they must
shape up and become adults for once, the awkwardness brings the laughs
as well.

Step Brothers isn't winning any Oscars any time soon. With a premise
involving the union of two older professionals, both of whom have
40-year old sons still living at home, devoid of responsibility, and
lacking serious occupations, what do you really expect? Nancy Huff,
(Mary Steenburgen showing that she is still around Hollywood), and
Robert Doback, (Richard Jenkins letting his funny side out to
complement the wonderful dramatic turn he gave in this year's The
Visitor), are in love and perfect for one another. Their sons,
unbeknownst to them at first, are also soulmates in the best friend
platonic way. Completely the same person, right down to the hiding
things in the kitchen while sleepwalking at night, Brennan and Dale are
children trapped in adult bodies who waited forty years to be brought
together. The chemistry between Ferrell and Reilly is unstoppable on
screen, they are having fun, they must be improvising, and truthfully
not a second falls flat.

With so many gags, one would think it'd all seem a bit disparate and
thrown together, but the filmmakers and stars have sewn everything up
nicely. You want a rap video that is the most offensive thing you'll
hear all year? Get Brennan and Dale to create a music talent agency.
You want an a cappella rendition of Guns N' Roses? Give Brennan a
cocky, pompous brother who can afford singing/voice listens for his
entire familyabsolutely priceless, and Adam Scott kills in this role,
"Pow!". You need some gratuitous fake nudity? Give Ferrell a chance to
rub his genitalia on Reilly's drumset. Check, check, and check. These
guys cover all their bases, not to mention the swearing quota. I am
surprised that they approved an R-rating here because it is so vulgar.
The fact that a couple lines from the trailer didn't make the final cut
shows that the actors must have improvised and done multiple takes of
each scene. As a result, I'm sure they all tried to be as creatively
crass as they could and to fantastic result. Some of the gems that spew
forth ever so naturally are one-liners that will be repeated over and
over again.

Really, it is these vulgarities that make the film that much more
enjoyable to me. I think that McKay and Ferrell took a page out of the
Apatow machine's book realizing a hard-R can and will sell. No one
holds back at all, some of the sarcasm even makes the characters cry
because it is so harsh. I love this aspect as it plays into the fact
that these are 8-year old adults. Their excess of childlike exuberance
and simplicity of mind and lifeand let's not forget the way their
parents react by either screaming and going to the Cheesecake Factory
bar or coddling them as only a mother can doadds to the absurdity of
the situation and the laughs. Dale and Brennan fight, bicker, and
eventually do everything together because they aren't just
stepbrothers, no they are brothers for life in terms of their internal
makeup. Think you and your sibling growing up in grade school, multiply
that to the nth degree in terms of sex, violence, and language, and
maybe you will be able to imagine what's in store for you once you sit
down at the theatre. Just don't forget to stay after the first short
run of end credits as the best jungle gym park brawl ever is awaiting
you. Those kids didn't even have a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been getting a lot of mixed reviews about this movie. Some
people love it, some people hate it, some people are just plain grossed
out by it. I'm in the love it category. There were a few unnecessary
gross out scenes but the rest of it is just awesome straight forward
comedy.

John C. Reilly and Will Ferrell are amazing. I also loved Talladega
Nights so it was great too see them as co-actors again. The story is
ridiculous, there's no doubt about that, but it's really fun and I felt
it moved along very well. I was also laughing out loud at the humor in
this movie. There are so many spot on jokes and so many quotable lines.

See this one if you're a fan of films like Talladega Nights, Superbad
and Walk Hard. I think you'll find that is quite a bit to love about
it.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a difference between Step Brothers and Baby Mama. Step Brothers
is not up to par with the best work of the Will Ferrell-Adam McKay
writing team, but it is not like Baby Mama in the sense that it has
made me lost faith in the brand. Many critics seem to not know the
difference. Bob Hope and Bing Crosby made 7 films together. Would
critics have given this film a bigger pass if Will Ferrell and John C
Reiley's film were called Talladega Nights II? What I'm getting it is I
thought this film was plenty funny and certainly inventive enough. In
fact, I stayed in the theater and watched it twice. The big stars of
the film are not John C Reilly and Will Ferrell but Mary Steenburgen
and Richard Jenkins for holding down straight faces and being
convincing as a loving dad and a loving mom of such silly characters.
You could insert the characters played by Jenkins and Steenburgen into
something like Cheaper by the Dozen or Gilmore Girls and it would still
pretty much work.
<|_=00=_|>
It's taken four or five films, but it seems like Hollywood has run of
out occupations for Will Ferrell to have while he acts like a man
child. From anchorman to NASCAR driver and some other sports, the
apparent remedy of this problem comes in Step Brothers: make him a
jobless man child. Oh, and have two of him this time and get John C.
Reilly to play the other. That's the basic set up for this, Ferrell's
third collaboration with "Anchorman" and "Talladega Nights" director
Adam McKay, a tired, annoying, and sometimes cringe inducing display of
the same shtick you've seen many times before.

The movie follows Dale (Reilly) and Brennan (Ferrell), two single,
unemployable 40 year old losers who still live at home with their
single parents (played by Mary Steenburgen and Richard Jenkins, two
very good actors that don't have much to work with). When said parents
hook up and eventually marry, the two find themselves under the same
roof and an hour and a half of them screaming and getting hurt ensue.
The two despise each other at first, but eventually become friends,
especially when their parents grow tired of their immaturity and force
them to try and get jobs. This sets the stage for what essentially
boils down to a series of sketches. One supposedly funny situation
after the next that the boys find themselves in, barely connecting to
form a plot at all, let alone something overly funny. Set pieces
include Brennan's diabolically cruel younger brother, his crazy wife
who finds herself infatuated with Dale, a street brawl with some grade
school children, and a rap video (groan). Like previous McKay outings,
this movie is a gag a minute, throwing out a lot of things, most of
them missing the mark.

To deride the humor as stupid is incredibly pointless. That's what one
is expecting with movies like these, and even people who loved this
movie would freely admit that it's stupid. The "stupid" factor of the
humor isn't even my major problem with it. I've enjoyed movies like
Anchorman and the indefensible Kung Pow: Enter the Fist, but there has
to be some kind of wacky and over the top charm to a film's stupidity
in order for me to be on board. Not only are Dale and Brennan
un-charming, they're barely even likable, and even a little creepy.
Seeing these men scream obscenities, beat the crap out of each other,
act like children and destroy the lives of those around them wears thin
very quickly without any charm acting as support. The film also suffers
from a degree of unoriginality, nothing is recycled directly from the
previous McKay movies, but I couldn't shake off the feeling that I've
seen this all before, or that McKay and Ferrell weren't even really
trying anymore.

Ferrell and Reilly are gifted actors, and have proved in past films
that they can be funny, but they have nothing to do here but repeat the
same joke over and over again. Dale and Brennan are moronic man sized
children, look at how stupid and childish they act, etc. etc. I'd be
liar if I said the film was devoid of any laughs, because it does
deliver some, but they just feel cheap, coming solely from Ferrell or
Reilly's tone of voice or facial expressions, and not from good
writing. You also get the feeling that, if nothing else, the actors are
having a good time, which keeps the film from being something truly
terrible. I'm also a sucker for randomness, and it succeeded at making
me crack a smile a few times because of it. But the majority of the
jokes just don't work; coming off as McKay trying to be as immature and
senseless as possible (think Ferrell rubbing his balls on a drum kit is
funny? Then you're in luck).

The supporting characters don't help much either, most acting as one
note and unlikable as the step brothers themselves. Brennan's brother
and his wife try to be so frantically funny you feel like patting them
on the back and saying "You came on a little strong". Steenburgen and
Jenkins try their best, but as mentioned, they simply have zero
material to work with, forced to simply act as straight-men to Dale and
Brennan's idiocy. Until, of course, the movie finally decides to have
some sort of conflict and makes the parents fed up with them,
eventually resolving in conclusion just as asinine as the rest of the
film. By that point I couldn't have cared about the characters any
less.

The film is bad, but not terrible. It's far too uninspired to get that
strong of a reaction from me. It is simply McKay and Ferrell reusing
their tried and tested formula once again, and failing completely in an
attempt to capture any real sense of comedy or fun. If you loved the
other movies made in this vein, then you'll surely like this too. If
you find yourself tiring of Ferrell with each release, then save
yourself some time and skip it, because "Step Brothers" will probably
be the film that'll break the camel's back. Then fart on it or
something.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked Ferrel & Reilly as the racing team in "Talladega Nights" but
this was even better. The physical comedy was outstanding and the
acting itself was pitch perfect. Many critics commented on how well
they did given what they had to work with, but I think the script was
excellent. Some of the lines were brilliant, but you really have to
give the actors credit for improvising. After Ferrell revealed his
singing talents when he sang "Let's Give 'Em Something to Talk About",
when Reilly gushed on and on about how great he was, and then said "I'm
not sure, but towards the end I think I saw you turn into a Unicorn", I
lost it. I really lost it when Ferrell's brother & his family were
singing in the car "Sweet Child of Mine". It was a real classic.

Hell, I think I'll buy this when it comes out on DVD. I can't say that
for many comedies ("Anchor Man" is one).

Don't miss this one. It's a scream.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally, I think Talladega Nights is the funniest movie Will Ferrell
has ever done so pretty much everything since then has been a slight
disappointment (Blades Of Glory, Semi-Pro) and honestly, the first time
I watched Stepbrothers I was a little disappointed.

But a few months later I popped it in and watched it again and for some
reason it was just really funny to me the second time around. It
completely grew on me. I think the plot is hilarious, two guys in their
40's still never growing up and still living at home. And I can't think
of any better comedy team than Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly to play
these parts.

I'm probably going to watch this again tonight. It just gets better
every time.
<|_=00=_|>
Step Brothers - Two 40 year old men (Will Ferrel and John C. Reily) who
live with their single parents find those parents become married. The
two men hate each other but soon find themselves becoming friends. They
then learn to grow up.

Really, the usual thin plot premise has worked in other movies that
Judd Apatow has had anything to do with remotely (producer) but
seriously. This movie has almost no plot. It would have worked ten
times better as a sketch on a comedy show (and did. Am I the only one
who has seen Mr. Show with Bob and David?) than as a two hour long
movie.

I have enjoyed both men's comedic and dramatic talents in the past, but
after their most recent effort together: Talledega Nights, a movie that
was tiresome and largely unfunny, who thought it was a good idea to
bring them back together? Oh that's right, Adam McKay, the guy who
directed and wrote that movie and also directed and wrote this one
(There was a script? Really?). It felt like amateur hour at an imrov
club. Occasionally something funny gets said or done, but you have to
wait through a lot of crude, unfunny crap inbetween.

Reilly seems to have abandoned subtlety in comedy altogether. Ferrell
plays an even bigger dumber lout than usual, still mistaking screaming
for comedy. They are beyond quirky to the point of being cartoons. Make
that cartoons you feel kind of bad for. Only Adam Scott comes out of
this retaining his dignity as the sort of evil other brother to
Ferrell's character. Seth Rogen shows up for a cameo scene to remind us
how people can seem like real characters and still be funny.

Yes I love Anchorman, but I'm beginning to think that McKay is like a
comedic M. Night Shymalan. He had one good movie in him. Period. The
bar for taste could not honestly get lowered. There were some surprise
laughs once in awhile, but I was considering leaving about half-way
through..Once the "rift where the characters learn about growing up"
occurs, McKay tries to squeeze this monstrosity into the cliché comedy
mold, and it all feels even more awkward. Like only then they realized
how ridiculous and unfunny it all was. The cartoons try to become
actual people, and it's all just too painful. There is one bright
light: Ferrell can actually sing (which I already knew from The
Producers). Did we need to go through an entire movie to see it?
Painfully dumb, Step Brothers gets a D+
<|_=00=_|>
Will Farrell tea bagging a drum set is not funny. John C. Reilly in
bicycle shorts or a Chewbacca mask is not funny. The two stars
pulverizing a playground full of eleven-year-olds is also, you guessed
it, not funny. In fact, it is desperate and pathetic.

It is small consolation that one of the egregious scenes in the movie
takes place after the credits roll. Unfortunately though, the aisles
and exits at the theatre I saw Step Brothers at were clogged with
spectators who, beyond any intelligible reason as far as I can tell,
were amused enough by the first 100 minutes to stick around for the
encore, so I was stuck.

I find it necessary to qualify my above remarks, as well as those I
have not yet written down, by saying I do not object to raunchy,
low-brow humor. Any one of the images mentioned in the lead of this
review could have been as funny as the pie scene in American Pie or the
testicle/zipper shot in There's Something About Mary. But there needs
to be some context and perhaps a little motivation as well. We need to
know why something is funny, and understand how it fits in with the
world its movie occupies. The images themselves do not suffice, no
matter how shocking or disgusting.

If you are not yet familiar with the general set-up of Step Brothers
through the movie's excessively aggressive and ubiquitous marketing
campaign, it is rather simple. Will Farrell and John C. Reilly play two
slacker children- one is forty years old and the other is pushing forty
with a short stick- whose successful, motivated single parents get
married, and therefore begin the weirdest Brady Bunch type family in
movie history. Farrell and Reilly's characters hate each other upon
sight and bicker insufferably until they realize they are cut from the
same degenerate cloth and then become best pals.

Eventually, the father, a revered and important physician played by
Richard Jenkins, becomes so enraged by the overgrown adolescents'
antics, that he delivers an ultimatum to them. Get jobs and move out by
the end of the month. I feel this is all the plot exposition this film
deserves, because Step Brothers is more about a series of failed gags
and profanity for profanity's sake.

I consider myself to have a very high tolerance for explicit, raunchy
sexual behavior and an even higher tolerance for foul language, but
even I found Step Brothers to be puke-inducing, more than a bit rough.
Remember the tea bagging scene mentioned in the lead. We do get to see
every hairy inch of Will Farrell's scrotum. It does not advance the
plot. It is not the logical conclusion of a series of events. It is not
executed with any sort of subtlety or surprise, it is telegraphed a
week ahead of time. It serves no function whatsoever except to show
Will Farrell's testicles because Farrell, who co-wrote the script with
director Adam McKay, thinks it is funny. It is not, and neither are the
endless gags which continually use sex, genitalia, cursing, etc. as
bludgeons. It is not so much a movie as an exercise in arbitrary
weirdness and manic perversion.

The clerk who sold me my ticket said that while most of the younger
audiences seemed to love the film, many middle-aged moviegoers had left
the film enraged, demanding to be refunded. To me, this does not
demonstrate a schism in tolerance, but a schism in taste. Today's
middle-aged moviegoer grew up with Animal House and Porky's, and was
quick to embrace the aforementioned American Pie and There's Something
About Mary. And anybody willing to put down ten bucks to see a movie
starring the man behind Old School must have been prepared for some
politically incorrect humor. However, in Step Brothers it is not funny,
just depressing, mean-spirited and reprehensible.

Even more depressing, is the fact that there is a kernel of a good idea
here. There is endless comedic possibility of two social misfits with
Peter Pan complexes who are seemingly oblivious to all real world
expectations. Unfortunately, this movie is completely unwilling to push
the frontiers of any sort of substance whatsoever. It just falls back
on the same safe, broad humor that so many of Farrell's previous
efforts are marked by. 

Worse yet, is that the two lead characters' quirks are made less
interesting by the supporting characters in the movie. Everybody is
pretty much the exact same. Even the supposed smart, successful people
in Step Brothers behave like social deviants, giving Farrell and Reilly
nothing to bounce their energy off of. They hardly even stand out as
weirdos. Even the straight-laced father succumbs to visions of being a
T-Rex. It is not a fantasy, but a goal.

There is something potentially fascinating about a successful doctor
who aspires to be a member of a different species, one that is extinct
to boot, but like so much of the rest of the movie, the joke is
undercut by the tone of the rest of the film. The undeniable chemistry
between Farrell and Reilly is the only thing that makes this film
supportable. They really embody these characters and go all the way
with them. Unfortunately, that is all the way to the toilet. The film
displays many symptoms of Farrell's classic "Ain't I cute" syndrome.

This film makes the classic mistake of believing goofiness is an
adequate substitute for wit. All comedy writers, directors, and actors
would serve themselves well to observe a few basic lessons. Smart
people are funnier than dumb people. Secure, well-adjusted people are
funnier than zany outcasts. And most importantly, a bad gag done loudly
is even more annoying than the same bad gag performed at a humble
volume.

In a summer of surprisingly strong major studio releases, Step Brothers
does what it can to taint the cinematic gene pool.
<|_=00=_|>
Brennan Huff's mother and Dale Doback's father get married and go to
live together. Since Brennan and Dale still live with their parents
(even having 40 years old), they need to live as step brothers. They
don't like each other and don't get along. The main problem will come
when they start to shake their parents' wedding.

What a HORRIBLE movie! I haven't laughed even once! It is as bad as
''You Don't Mess with the Zohan '', but even more retarded! (If this is
possible!!) How can someone even laugh with those ridiculous
situations? The two lead characters seem two retarded men whose main
objective is to destroy their family's lives. They behave like babies
and they are what? 40 years old? I cannot believe this movie has almost
a 7 in its rate. This only proves how many people with bad taste live
in the world.

Don't even bother to watch this movie, or you are going to lose your
time with one of the most pathetic movies ever made by humanity.
