
Lions for Lambs is a current issue film that deals with several
relevant topics. The central plot revolves around essentially three
settings that don't directly affect each other through action. They do
however affect each other through course of action presented in debate.
Cruise plays Jasper Irving, a GOP senator with a new plan of action for
the war on terror. Streep is a veteran reporter who is interviewing
him. Simultaneously, Redford is a college professor who has called a
student into his office. A conflict in Afghanistan is taking place
which is linked to the aforementioned plot lines.

Lions for Lambs surprised me with it's balance. I'm an open Republican,
and felt that this movie was not a cliché attack against the power that
be. The Cruise character could have been given irrefutable hatred
material. He could have been caught in a scandal. He could have
alienated others with religious furor. Instead he is real and forms
educated arguments. He seems rational, and passionate; he can also make
a turn to present himself to the public. I don't see this as an attack,
but one of the many skills politicians need to succeed. With all they
go through and the decisions they have, they don't want the mocking
that crying before the camera would carry. The left is represented by
Redford's professor and Streep's reporter. Both are treated with
rationale conviction. Neither has a clear anti-GOP agenda. Both of
these characters even go as far as to acknowledge the error in the ways
of their side. If there is a message to the film, it is that we are
being sheltered from reality. It was clear to this viewer that Redford
is stating that we are placing focus on the minuscule while matters of
true importance are treated as second rate. Surely this is something we
all can agree on in Lions for Lambs and this comes into fruition as the
film evolves.

Aside from the political commentary, which it makes no dance around,
this a dialog heavy film. Characters are pinned against their
situations which cause them to restrain from a course of action both
physically and metaphorically. The conversations are engaging, but it
would be arguably more favorable to allow the characters interaction. A
few additional technical merits could have gone a long way. For
example, the CGI of the Chinook helicopter was not up to par; a
memorable score and unique cinematography are also absent. The
screenplay is inherently foiled by remarkable coincidence; but there
was no way around that. At a scant 88 minutes, Lions for Lambs is quick
to get to the point but it is over too fast. These miscues keep it from
perfection. Served as they are, Lions for Lambs is thinking person's
film that comes highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Thumbs are of no use in talking about Robert Redford's "Lions for
Lambs." Sticking them up or down makes little sense. It's not that kind
of movie. What kind is it? Pretty much without a category.

The time is the present, Bush II is president, there is an unending war
in the Middle East, the setting is present-day D.C., everything looks
documentary-realistic. It could be a Sunday-morning panel discussion,
but the cast consists of a bevy of stars, performing magnificently,
with a script that seems to be formed by headlines from today's
newspapers.

At the center of the film is a lengthy, unlikely, but brilliant duet of
a an interview between a veteran, nobody's-fool political reporter
(Meryl Streep) and a young hotshot NeoCon senator (Tom Cruise), both
utterly believable, notwithstanding the challenge of some lame lines by
screenwriter Matthew Michael Carnahan for Cruise. Still, overall, the
business between the two is the "people's business," about the lethal
foreign-policy bungling of a war of choice, now running longer than
World War II. (These are not editorial comments, but rather a report on
what the film says.) 

While dissecting the Iraqi disaster, and hearing some surprising and
obviously manipulating admissions of errors from Cruise's hawkish
senator, the issue at hand is the senator - a key military adviser to
the President - trying to steer Streep's skeptical journalist into
"selling" a new plan of attack in Afghanistan, something she instantly
recognizes as a throwback to failed strategy in Vietnam.

Alternating with the interview segments are battle scenes in
Afghanistan where two Army rangers (Derek Luke and Michael Peña) are
risking their lives in implementing that new plan. Then, by a stretch
and rather awkwardly, there sits Redford's professor in his West Coast
college office, pulling the story together between the two lion-like
Rangers, who were his students, and a bright, troubled student (Andrew
Garfield) who lost his way, baa, baa, baa.

Significant and entertaining, thought-provoking and reality-based sad,
mostly well-written, and exceptionally well-acted, "Lions for Lambs" is
likely to leave the audience with the feeling of having participated in
an important happening, but perhaps not quite knowing what it was.

Gushing about Streep is almost embarrassing, but... Once again, she
transcends text, expectations, whatever you may anticipate, and gives a
performance to remember and treasure. Her expressions, body language,
silences create a character with a life of her own, a "real person" we,
the audience, feel as if we have known always, intimately.
<|_=00=_|>
So many negative comments about this movie. But I think we should take
a moment to assess what the movie is about. Starting from the title to
the credits, the movie is not about a heroic battle or an indelible
mistake by a over zealous, self absorbed government. It is about
understanding a mindset. If any of you have ever read Francis
Fukuyama... its about history repeating itself. Its about the common
man being a pawn, about how life really is not a 'great equalizer'.
Redford does a brilliant job looking at showing the dynamic impact
numerous aspects/events and individuals who impact our lives truly
have. The self serving ego of one senator, or the inability of a
teacher to persuade a student, or a reporter having to turn a blind eye
to conscience because of a need to put a meal on the table the next
day. It is nice to finally watch a Hollywood war related film without a
heroic massacre. Or a rescue from the jaws of death, or the pity of a
sympathetic enemy. Indegenes (French film about WWII) was the last
movie that actually attempted to understand the core of the individual,
the motivation of an action. Redford captures the same...a stellar film
maker!
<|_=00=_|>
Not true! Robert Redford didn't take to the pulpit to give us a pet
talk. He's far too subtle, honest and compassionate to pull a stunt
like that. The film is about questions not about answers and we're all
grateful for that. I left the theater with a weight on my chest because
I believe in the validity of the questions and the individual
responsibility of finding the fair way to the answers. Important to
remember, at least it was for me, that this is a film delivered to us
by three icons. Robert Redford, a symbol of consistency and
independence, Meryl Streep, an actress who defined the last two decades
of film acting with characters that went straight to the center of
something and Tom Cruise, the box office champion who's become a
controversial figure despite of his undeniable humanity. I will take a
stand here and advise you to go and see this film. You will come up
with new questions and a potential road map for the answers.
<|_=00=_|>
The Seventh movie direction of Bob Redford, Lions for Lambs is a movie
about conscience and the effects of politics and the government in
society, it also touches several aspects of the American society, such
as student issues, the manipulation of media for political propaganda
ends.

It also invites the viewer to reflect on very important ethical and
moral issues of modern society.

Great Cast and good direction but I think the most important part of
this movie it's the message but as I said before, you'll either loath
it or think about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Before you go any further let me tell you that I'm not American, so I'm
not writing this to support any particular view or political party. I'm
Polish, studying in US I appreciate good cinema and by this I mean
intelligent movies that do more than just trick you/cheat you into
having a particular crafted/staged emotion. My comment was reported as
abuse for reasons I don't understand. I have seen this movie, I didn't
like it and I didn't write this as a political rant. Quite honestly, as
culture gets more and more "dumbed down" and bubble gum like so do the
so-called thought provoking movies. Compare this with any of the
communism-period Wajda work, and you will see real multilayer
movie-making . This week I was able to get into the sneak preview of
Tom Cruise's latest movie "Lions for lambs". Now, I can enjoy a good
anti-war movie even if I don't agree with its' message. But this wasn't
"Platoon" or the "Deer hunter", It didn't even have one tenth of the
complexity of "Munich". This movie felt like pure propaganda, not
provoking you to think but telling the viewer what to think. It didn't
really bother with much of a plot and in my opinion was really
insulting viewer's intelligence with how much it felt to spell out "war
is bad" and "Republicans lie". Running approx. 1:20 minutes it even
conformed to the format of shock value propaganda movie. If anything it
felt like those Donald Duck anti-Nazi cartoons Disney put out in the
1940's. It's not that I think a movie can't criticize this government I
support the war in Iraq but I see and understand that someone might
have a different view. This movie's only point is that no rationally
thinking person would ever support the war in Iraq or Afghanistan and
people do so only because they're duped by silver tongued Republicans.
Tom Cruise plays the GOP spin doctor, trying to sell the new Afghan
strategy to a CNN caliber reporter, Meryl Streep. This is the movie's
weakest point. The characters mostly talk- we have a reporter and a
republican, engaged professor and a lazy student trying to get him to
care about things surrounding him, and we have a story about young,
promising students who decide to enroll, go to war and die. People with
opposing views talk about patriotism and conservative characters are
either exposed as liars or naive and dismissed. There is nothing wrong
with talking but this picture I found to be very preachy. This movie
can't seem to comprehend that there is no right and wrong in politics.
We already know what people's opinions are anyway so there's nothing
new to discover. The movie's only point is that: Republicans lie and
they know they are lying, the Democrtats are on the side and good and
light but are too lazy and preoccupied with making news about over the
top celebrities(as movie hints with ending with shots of the
entertainment headlines on a news network and a question: what will you
do? to call opponents' bluff and talk about how we're losing in Iraq.
The producers believe that no reasonable person can think otherwise.

There is not a single notion that this may come from fundamentally
different views on the world and that people may have conflicting
opinions and that's not unpatriotic or unjustified.The film claims to
offer a fair view. It brings up some facts and views but quickly
dismisses them if it doesn't fit the major premise. Republicans bad,
Democrats good. The movie also tries to manipulate by showing Streep
driving down DC and seeing graves and the Memorial Monument from the
car at the end. There is something really odd about her performance and
very theatrical face expressions that felt like she's saying "I'm Meryl
Streep and I'm acting", while the jelly Tom Cruise character looked as
if he was about to jump on his sofa prosing his love for Katie Holmes.
This is a very political movie, but not in a way that's smart and
witty. It's blunt and emotionally void,but
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie with contrasting feelings, because I read a
few reviews in advance. Many of them blamed it for being too didactic,
thus lacking the basic qualities a movie should have. Many others
praised it in a very ideological way, thus raising in me the fear it
was a piece of propaganda. Well, after I spent the 80 minutes watching
the movie I thought not even 60 had elapsed, and my attention and
empathy didn't ever fail for a single minute. There is no doubt that a
movie so extensively based upon dialog is very unusual: but this turns
out to be one of its most valuable asset and proves the great value of
the script. It is not an action movie in any of the conventional ways:
yet I followed it with the attention, the suspense and expectations
feelings that usually an action movie raises. I think that indeed it is
a sort of intelligence action movie - as such it stands out over the
best stuff that visual media performances are usually producing today.
The second point I most appreciated has been its ability in portraying
the main characters' different viewpoints in a very complex way, as it
must be: there were no all round villains nor all round heroes.
Doubtless there is a very much defined view and attitude, but it is not
supported in a mere ideological way. In fact, it has no clearcut,
simple answers to offer to a damningly complex situation full of
contradictions as it actually is. It is full of subtleties, in dialog
not less than in body languages and settings. It is often moving
without ever slipping into cheap rhetoric. It's a movie that in a way
"should" be seen and re-seen and reflected and discussed upon to wake
up people from all sorts of addictive indifference as well as of
addictive "I'm right, they're wrong" self complacency. Last but not
least, in my opinion this movie is a good instance of what is needed to
roll back anti-American feelings that have been spread out due to the
American government policies and behavior in the last decade. May I
offer my apologies for my English to the readers that will have had the
patience to go through my comment.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm quite reluctant to criticize this movie because I basically agree
with every sentiment it expresses. I just wish it could express them
with more grace, style and subtlety. The movie makes some very valid
points about the American political system, patriotism, the so called
War on Terror, the lack of engagement of youth and the comatose
subordination of the American media. Most of which I agree with. And
yet it left me utterly cold and disengaged. 

To summarise briefly, the movie consists of essentially 3 scenes; a
senator's office in DC (representing the establishment), a college
professor's office in California (representing the liberal element) and
a mountain top in Afghanistan (representing active engagement). In
Afghanistan, two unfortunate, brave recruits are lying injured and
waiting for rescue. The scenes take place in real time; in other words,
it's all supposed to be happening in parallel. 

The senator, Jasper Irving (Tom Cruise), in his impressive office, is
disclosing an exclusive on a new Afghan military "Push", to a veteran
reporter (Meryl Streep), the college professor Malley (Robert Redford
as a political scientist) is trying to engage the interest of a
cynical, bright young student who has given up studying because it's
all so pointless, and the two buddy soldiers have just fallen - or
jumped - from a damaged helicopter which came under attack in the
Afghan mountains, as it took part in the "Push". The senator is trying
to justify the military action, mostly to promote his own career, while
Streep's reporter is wrestling with her conscience. She is supposed to
meekly lap up this scoop she is being given and report it uncritically,
as a good patriotic American  and one whose career is on the downhill
run, coasting towards oblivion in a world obsessed with triviality and
junk. When, she wonders, did the media roll over and become the poodle
of the government? 

In the meantime in California, Professor Malley engages in a battle of
words with his clever, cynical and privileged student Todd, telling him
of two equally bright but financially challenged minority students who
left college the previous year to join the army, so as to experience
for themselves the sharp end of the War on Terror. The movie is at
pains to question the War on Terror and the people who facilitate it,
without dissing the poor grunts on the ground. It makes the point  and
it's a valid one - that many of the people who protested the Vietnam
War a generation before, had actually fought in it because they were
forced to by the Draft. With no universal draft to dodge, why should
the 21st century's self-obsessed kids be interested in a war being
fought a dozen time zones away, especially when they are fed a constant
diet of escapist pap by the media? At least the two buddies now dying
in Afghanistan were trying to actively engage with the issue. 

It certainly wasn't the performances which were at fault. They were
mostly excellent. I especially loved Tom Cruise as the senator; he was
so perfectly insincerely sincere. It's easy to forget what a good actor
he actually is, when so much of what we see of him is..well.escapist
media pap. I will never tire of watching Meryl Streep, whom I have
worshipped for 30 years, Robert Redford was Robert Redford, does he
ever play anyone else? The guys who played the two soldiers were
convincing and as for Andrew Garfield who played Todd, I see dozens of
him every day here in California, he had the character to a T. 

So why do I feel so negative about this movie? Because it's really not
a movie at all. This is stage play looking for a theatre. I am certain
if I'd seen this at my local Rep., with a good cast and some inventive
and lively direction, I'd have walked out of the theatre feeling I'd
seen something excellent and thought provoking. I can see the set in my
head, the stage divided into 3 zones, lit in turn as we cut from scene
to scene, the trapped soldiers at the very front, close to the
audience, where we can see their agony as they wait for death. It would
make riveting and tense theatre in the right hands and could be very
moving. And in the context of live performance, it would be much more
politically relevant, and could even seem quite daring. 

But as a movie it just turned me off, I felt battered to insensibility,
there wasn't an ounce of subtlety to it, far too wordy, worthy and
preachy. And if Redford as director is trying to get his message over
to the youth of America, this is not the way to do it. This is
preaching to the converted. Disengaged kids are not going to turn out
in droves to see Meryl Streep and Robert Redford on a Friday night. I'm
sorry, but they are just not. 

And as for the Afghan mountain set, with its atrocious lighting, fake
snow, lame pyrotechnics and polystyrene boulders, it reminded me of
early Star Trek episodes, where the rocks bounced off the actors. You
can get away with minimalist, representational sets in the theatre. In
fact, they are positively encouraged, so we can concentrate on the
performances. But live theatre and a movie are two different animals,
and here it just had me groaning at the cheapness. 

My husband loved it. Hmmmm.
<|_=00=_|>
The words that become a catch phrase tend to confuse rather than
clarify. They all say this, we all know that, when in fact, truth is
always the simplest if not the easiest of answers. Here Robert Redford
is not trying to be Oliver Stone. No, he remains Robert Redford in his
handsome rugged way asking us to think without ever even asking it. He
provokes the question in a situation that we all seem to have taken
sides. I admired the seriousness of the intention here. Meryl Streep is
terrific interviewing an inedited Tom Cruise - All the recent gossip
about Cruise made his Senator even more sinister. Redford, the all
American guy, guides according his own coordinates but doesn't preach.
He just tells us. Well done!
<|_=00=_|>
This is easily a film that will come under fire for having something to
say, but what is the alternative? Making a film that has nothing to
say? That seems to be the norm nowadays as the box office grosses of
the terrible trio of threequels demonstrates. Lions for lambs reminds
me of a time when Directors had greater ambitions than to make a huge
opening weekend before people realize their film is garbage
(Transformers, Pirates, etc...but being saturated with these types of
films for so long I doubt many remember what film can be, and
accomplish.) Robert Redford strikes me as someone who wants to make a
difference and the problem is that the audience has become more deaf to
reason than ever.

Lions for Lambs is more of a filmed essay than a narrative feature, and
being a Kubrick fan, I am all for changing the classic form of
Hollywood narrative structure. This is a film based around ideas, and
exploring them to raise awareness that our own apathy will lead to our
undoing as Americans. Let me invoke Batman Begins "People need dramatic
examples to shake them out of apathy"...etc. So people won't get off
their posteriors and respond to the chaos around them, perhaps because
there seems to be no direct connection to the news, or as this film so
brilliantly points out: we change the channel. This film is a dramatic
example of where we're going as a nation and what we're becoming as a
people. I doubt anyone will listen but I applaud the filmmakers for at
least making an attempt. 

This film presents the facts pretty much up to the minute, from many
angles, and yes even the Republicans get a sympathetic view of their
strategy. Whose fault is it that the economy is in a downward spiral?
It's all too easy to point the finger at the Bush administration and
leave it at that, but what about the media? The corporations that own
the media that favor news as entertainment rather than news as
information by which to empower the people via knowledge? What about
the public themselves? V for Vendetta, another film centered around
powerful ideas that didn't have nearly the impact it should have, said
"People shouldn't be afraid of their governments, governments should be
afraid of their people." 

Has the public become so passive that they just ignore the big issues
whenever confronted by them? This film suggests that and much more, but
more importantly the film asks: What are you going to do about it?
