
After so many years waiting, there comes "Assembly", the first military
blockbuster of China that Chinese movie and military fans have been
hardly expecting for such a long time! I believe this movie will pose
an extreme important position both in the movie history and military
culture of China.

Since Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan" and Tom Hanks' "Band of
Brothers", shooting an excellent and extraordinary warfare movie
becomes a great dream among Chinese movie and military fans. Due to
political and history reasons, military is a sensitive subject for
normal directors and production companies. The official August 1st
Movie Studio of PLA is nearly the only producer of military movies.
Though there were also many famous works such as the epic trilogy of
"Decisive Engagement", the majority of this studio's products are
mainly designed to meet propaganda and political priorities, then
secondly for art or to restore history. As for those so called "main
theme of nowadays" military TV series and plays, absolutely rubbish!
(Except "A Soldier's Charge")

"Assembly" becomes a turning point. Yes, August 1st Movie Studio did
supply some assistance during the making, but "Assembly" is not an
official product of the Authority. It aims at entertainment area, uses
commercial method combined with modern movie technology, rather than
compulsory propaganda, to win the New-Year-Eve movie mark campaign in
China.

Director Feng Xiaogang did it. "Assembly" sets a new level for Chinese
military movies. And wins the hart of many audiences, fulfills its
mission to be the first military blockbuster of China that people
expecting long. I don't mind the special effects of war were created by
the same team in Korea's "Taegukgi hwinalrimyeo". I'm just so pleased
that China is now also able to shoot such a warfare movie that shake my
heart so greatly and touch my emotion so deeply, that reflect the
brutality of war and restore history details so really! Just like the
Hollywood did! Nearly-real combat scenes and explosions shot by a
shaking camera, old weapons and uniform (Type 55 uniform of PLA) in
history exactly restored, native language of that period, and so on
These scenes only exist in our dreams before, now they finally come
into big screen!

Unlike the epic works of August 1st Movie Studio that mainly focus on
great leaders, "Assembly" precisely draws the inner heart of a normal
person for the first time. What's more, the director didn't avoid
sensitive history matters. In order to gain martyr identities for his
gloriously died comrades, Company Leader Gu Zidi came through lots of
unfair treatment after the founding of new China. He never gave up and
continually to fight, to find his men's bodies, until they were
formally confirmed as martyrs and buried in 1958.

By the end of the story, when 47 heroes finally received the medals and
salute that belong to them, tears break out from the eyes of every
audience. That is the real glory of a Chinese soldier, the real spirit
of Chinese people!

ddeell72,Christmas Eve, 2007
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent military blockbuster which might remind people of
less its American counterpart Save Private Ryan than the traditions of
the Chinese chivalry which lays a stress emphasis on "Name" or "Title".

Gu Zi Di(Millet Field), who is orphaned in a famine and named after the
millet field where he was picked up,tried conscientiously every means
to reclaim the credit of being martyrs( the holy death) for his 47
neglected dead comrades. Considering his growing background, one might
find it easy to understand his obsession with the "Name", the
importance of doing justice to the name and reputation of the dead
rather than leaving the holy dead in obscurity. To put the figure in a
historical perspective, he is actually an ideal reincarnation of the
traditional Chinese knight who pursues the justice in disregard of the
cumbersome secular hypocrisy and bureaucracy.

I think the film is aimed to re-appropriate the Chinese chivalry
tradition in a modern military background to inject masculine heroism
into the mercantile contemporary Chinese society where a vast number of
people are lost in mercenariness,not ashamed of losing their name in
idolization of money-ism.
<|_=00=_|>
I gotta say that in the first 40 minutes of the battle show, I did spot
scenes from Saving Private Ryan, Band of Brothers and the Korean:
Taegukgi hwinalrimyeo (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0386064/). Actually,
I'm not surprised at all, I mean who (the directors) wouldn't do the
same thing? Some directors might curse Steven Spielberg for not leaving
them much room to shoot a different war movie after Saving Private
Ryan, and indeed this movie has, in my opinion, in no way transcended
the 1998 war masterpiece. Still, I'd like to give credit to this
Chinese director for his guts to do such a Chinese war movie that well
handles battle scenes with great details, tells the audiences the past
without being necessarily affected by current Chinese politics, and
touches a lot of people simply because most of the story feels just
down to earth and so damned real. I won't go any further on these
points, because there's one more significant thing about this movie,
i.e., it's the first of this director's works that could be appreciated
by all the audiences other than those from mainland China only. 

The director has been a big name in Chinese movie industry by the end
of last century, bringing Chinese fresh outlooks about domestic movies.
However, one could probably better understand the director and his
previous movies only from a "Chinese" perspective. And when I say
"Chinese", I mean you'd better be living in mainland China, excluding
SARs like Hong Kong. But this time, as I said, it's quite different
since anyone could understand and appreciate the story. It's a good
shot to see how far Chinese movies can go internationally without the
presence of Kongfu and male characters with long braid at the back of
their heads, without the setting in a remote and underdeveloped Chinese
countryside, and without bold and overused sexual scenes.

I read about this movie on the internet for the last few days, and it
was this piece of information from a Chinese blog that drove me to
watch it, and I quote and translate this information as follows: "...
at 23:00 when the movie Ji jie hao ended in a Beijing's big movie
theatre tonight, with no presence of any of the directors and actors
with the movie, the audiences were unwilling to leave their seats, and
along with them was only their tears and standing applause." 

With no stars in this movie, it was reported that the box office hit
2,000 million Chinese dollars 2 weeks after the premiere in China. I
will definitely encourage both Chinese and non-Chinese to watch this
movie. And for those who might be interested in our ancient country, I
recommend two other quality movies: Huozhe ("to be alive" 1994)
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0110081/; and Ba wang bie ji ("farewell, my
concubine" 1993) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0106332/.
<|_=00=_|>
Feng Xiaogang's Assembly was the opening film at last year's Pusan
International Film Festival, and tickets were sold out in record time
once they were made available online. Such is the faith (or curiosity)
of the new film from the director who brought us movies like World
Without Thieves, and martial arts Hamlet The Banquet. When you think of
Chinese directors making a movie based out of Chinese history, you
can't help but imagine the massive amount of propaganda that get so
blatantly infused into the story and especially the dialogue. But here,
Feng managed to bring about a movie which goes beyond the usual ra- ra,
and shows us that a movie with universal themes can also come out from
what is essentially a war movie based upon China's tumultuous era after
WWII.

Assembly refers to the call of the bugle to retreat and regroup, and
this is the call that Captain Gu Zidi (Zhang Hanyu) and his 47 men of
the 9th Company, 3rd Batallion, 139th Regiment, are keenly listening
out for, as they go about their mission in ill-equipped fashion,
holding fort on a strategic plain. Sent to the frontlines for
war-crimes, Captain Gu and his men, while being the best at trench
warfare, find themselves severely lacking in essentials - manpower,
ammunition and heavy weaponry, as they go up against the marauding
forces of the Nationalist army, with their relatively superior armour.
However, their mantra is old school - only the bugle will signal their
fall behind, and everything else means fulfilling their mission
objectives at all costs.

While all might seem lost, this provides the kind of tales of valour
that comes out of these battles, something like 300's. Assembly honours
the spirit of the unit, of their tales of bravery and unflinching under
insurmountable odds. If you're looking for a war movie, then Assembly
will not disappoint. For the first hour anyway. Told in three acts, the
first act, all 60 minutes of it, is where the action takes place. The
war sequences here aren't poetic in the veins of Terence Mallick's The
Thin Red Line, but are more aligned with Steven Spielberg's Saving
Private Ryan, with its gritty realism, strained colours, and bloody,
gory violence.

We're probably, in recent years, in tune with war movies that put us in
the shoes of aggressors, and that is to follow an assault team. Very
rarely are we put into trenches and be seen to be on the defensive like
that of Iwo Jima, soaking up wave after wave of attacks. And that's
where Assembly shines, in having four intense battle sequences, three
of which were on the defensive scheme of warfare, and the other, while
an assault, does seem more to be on the losing end rather than
achieving a clear, decisive victory. If details are what you're after,
then you probably can't go wrong with the single bolt weapon, primitive
artillery and the sharing of tin helmets. In fact, you'll probably be
wondering instead that the PLA at the time was really backward, given
the world's military technological advancement in the West/Japan during
the 40s.

And given last year's double bill by Clint Eastwood in Flags of our
Fathers and Iwo Jima, Assembly seems like both movies combined, in
providing both an in-depth look at the battles fought, as well as
taking time off to contemplate more serious issues in dramatic fashion.
In the second and last acts which take up the remaining hour, we follow
Captain Gu as he tries his darnedest best to get his company recognized
for the contribution it made, no matter how minuscule it might seem
compared to the helicopter view of achievements. These acts might bore
those who came satisfied with the first half, but for those looking
into a more intimate drama of one man's fight for his lost brothers,
then this portion will likely appeal to you.

Ultimately, Assembly is an ambitious film. It combines drama and
action, and in both aspects, doesn't hold back in bringing about the
best it probably could. Kudos go to actor Zhang Hanyu who plays Captain
Gu, in what can be essentially a one man show, putting focus of his
place in history and his solo fight against the system. And after
watching this, you'll probably won't hesitate to watch another war
movie coming out of China, if they meet the benchmark set by Feng
Xiaogang. Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
I was attracted by the film when the trailers came out. I was at first
shocked by its vivid, cruel and accurate description of the war scene.
But when I watched this film at the cinema, I could hardly hold back my
tears. It's not a pure military blockbuster. It's a story of a hero
searching for the glory and the honor that he and his brothers
deserved. It's a story of the return of a long-lost heroism.

I think the biggest breakthrough that Xiaogang Feng made is there was
no propaganda for the Communist Party of China. Soldiers pulled the
triggers of their rifles because it was their mission that demanded
them to do so. They feared blood, feared death. They would step back
when bullets were buzzing around. They would save their friend from
dying at any cost. I'd say that director Feng had created some real
vivid figures. The soldiers in the film are a real reflection of the
true Chinese spirit.

As a Chinese, I loved this movie very much even though it was not 100%
"Made in China", for it was a milestone in the Chinese film history
where directors learned not to simply imitate how American or European
directors to shoot a movie, but to use these technologies to tell a
more convincing story. Heroes are still human beings, and this is what
"The Assembly" actually wanted to tell.

I'll give a 10/10. It's really worth watching, at least from the point
of view of a Chinese.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1948, during the Chinese Civil War, the Captain Gu Zidi (Hanyu
Zhang) from the Liberation Army falls in disgrace with his superiors
after an incident with prisoners of war. He is assigned with his
forty-seven soldiers from the Ninth Company to defend a coal mine until
they hear the retreat assembly of the bugle. Gu Zidi never hears the
call, his men die and he gathers their bodies inside the mine. Gu Zidi
awakes in a hospital and neither his identity and nor his officer
ranking are recognized; the forty-seven soldiers that heroically died
are only considered missing and their action is completely unknown by
the high-command. Gu Zidi fights in the Korea War and spends the rest
of his life feeling guilty for the death of his men and trying to prove
and achieve recognition for the honorable deed of his forty-seven
soldiers.

"Ji Jie Hao" is an impressive movie about the Chinese Civil War of
1948. The director Xiaogang Feng succeeds in promoting the true story
of the journey of a man that spends his life trying to prove the
bravery of his men that are in complete anonymity through a touching
story. The extremely realistic battle scenes are comparable to
"Taegukgi Hwinalrimyeo" and "Saving Private Ryan", with stunning camera
work, performances and choreography. The cinematography is magnificent,
and Hanyu Zhang has an awesome performance in the role of the tireless
Captain Gu Zidi. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Assembléia" ("Assembly")
<|_=00=_|>
Assembly is a gripping film about the Chinese civil war and its
aftermath, recounted through the story of a doomed company of Communist
soldiers and the subsequent struggle of their commander, Gu Zidi, to
win recognition for their sacrifice. Hanyu Zhang is superb in the role
of Gu Zidi, carrying the memory of his lost and forgotten comrades, and
is the focus for a film that is by turns brutal, moving and
provocative.

The opening battle scene is Assembly is startlingly violent and
throughout the film the portrayal of modern weaponry and its effect
upon human bodies is truly frightening. The battles are impressively
staged and meticulously detailed, from the soldiers' uniforms to the
networks of defensive trenches. There are some eye-opening details
about the nature of warfare in the Chinese civil war, including the
deployment of 'political officers' to encourage Communist troops to act
in line with Party doctrine.

Admittedly, much of the film's appeal stems from its foreign origins.
The Chinese civil war and the subsequent war in Korea are not often
portrayed in the cinema, and it is even more rare to get a Chinese
perspective on these events. Certainly this makes it difficult to find
a point of reference by which to assess the success of Assembly.
Nevertheless, I did have some reservations, including the camera-work.
The battle scenes cut frantically between different shots, unlike, for
instance, the opening scenes in Saving Private Ryan, where the action
relentlessly tracks the soldiers' landing on the D-Day beach. This
repeated cutting and changing conveys some sense of the chaos of
warfare, but I feel that the shaky camera-work was overplayed and found
this a bit irksome after the first few battle scenes.

A more general problem is that this film focuses almost exclusively on
the actions of the Communist soldiers. It would have been interesting
to learn more about the Nationalist Guomindang soldiers, but they are
barely afforded any speaking roles. Although Assembly is written from
the perspective of the winning side, it does not begin to examine why
the Communists were at one time so short of munitions and especially
men in fighting the war against the Nationalists. The story of Gu
Zidi's company of men is a battle against the odds, but the film does
not delve into the root causes of their desperation.

But although Assembly is a portrait of one side in a long military
conflict there is surprising depth to this portrait. The film does not
follow a straightforward triumphalist narrative about Communist war
heroes, but instead builds a complex tale of an individual (Gu Zidi)
who struggles for the posthumous recognition of individual soldiers who
made an individual sacrifice. These were soldiers who were scared and
sometimes balked at the dangers before them  as would anyone  but
they made the ultimate sacrifice and Gu Zidi strives to have their
efforts recognised as a unique contribution to the war effort. That it
is such a great struggle for Gu Zidi to secure a memorial for these
fallen comrades is at least partly an indictment of post-war society
and government in China.

Assembly achieves a remarkable amount in less than two hours. It is a
vivid reconstruction of struggles during and after the war and is
moreover a deeply moving experience, especially in its final frames.
And if part of the appeal lies in the fact that this is a foreign film
about a little-known war, then that is all the more reason to seek it
out.
<|_=00=_|>
Besides all the positive reviews about its realistic visual style, the
shaky camera and all the "Private Ryan" stuff, it really deserved
compliments from Chinese people, while we can see the true differences
between Chinese people and Western people in a cultural perspective.

I've read some reviews criticizing the Assembly for it being too
"western", and has significantly less character development in the
entire movie, but to state in short Assembly is a movie purely shot
from the angle of Captain Gu, who is the main man in the movie. It is
very unusual to portray any war from an individual perspective for
Chinese, even not in recent years. However, once someone wants to try
it, it will come out with some side effects bound with Chinese culture.
1, Captain Gu's character is very "north-Chinese", which means he takes
everything personally and with high dedication. Usually, he takes his
men more than brothers. When brothers die, he cares about their bodies
and believes they will be reincarnated. This is very typical Chinese
man-man relationship in a near-modern china. Plus, the supporting
characters are not memorable enough due to the magnitude of this
Chinese civil war. China has the largest population in the world, which
means one or two lives are not significant. And even the director
strives to focus on individuals, such reality still rule the whole
story.

2, Captain Gu's has a significant pursuit over the comrades' honor they
deserved. However if you were Chinese, you would feel the motivations
behind this action are strongly related to Chinese beliefs. Gu has
strong emotions on his men, but he never accepted the truth that they
are all gone. He'd believe they wouldn't rest in peace because the
earthly honor unattained. Besides, director Feng Xiaogang apparently
deviated from the typical Chinese war movies' atheism tune and
communism campaign injected by political needs. This is to note the
fact that very few man purely completely accepted atheism, even in a
Communism China.

Well done. This is a Chinese war movie about the wide gray scale in the
war and in China. 

2, Captain Gu's
<|_=00=_|>
In 1948 during the Chinese Civil War a broken company of men is ordered
to hold an old mine until the bugler plays assembly.After the war the
captain of the men, the only survivor and the only one who said he did
not hear the bugle call, tries to find their bodies and prove his men
died as heroes.

Profoundly moving story of the brotherhood created in war and the need
to right an old wrong. Though not quite perfect, this is one of the
best war films I've seen, period. Its power comes not from the battles,
rather from the humanity of those that fight. This is a film about
people and characters first and foremost and its what lifts this toward
greatness. I have never seen a film where everyone, on both sides of
the battle, are portrayed as human beings. There are no monsters, no
stick figures, just people. Even the people in the mass of uniforms are
people even if we only see them for an instant. This is a film about
the people, and the individuals who fight in times of war. None of the
main characters are clichés. Its not like Saving Private Ryan where
everyone is a WW2 cliché, here we have people and even if we don't know
everything about them we do know that they are individuals. This is a
film about the human cost of war.

Ultimately the film works because of Zhang Hanyu as Captain Gu Zidi.
Here is a man who is racked with guilt for "killing" all of his men. He
wants nothing better than to honor them, and when after being found in
the carnage of that final battle he comes to realize that no one
believes him, he is forced to not only fight on but also do everything
he can to see that the memory of the brave brothers is kept alive.
Zhang Hanyu breaks your heart as he tries to both join his men and
prove to the world that what they did mattered. It is a portrait of
quiet strength and occasional rage that makes you feel for him and for
the men who fought with him. Its one of the best performances of the
year.

I know for some the first hour of relentless battle (its nasty) will
make the more sedate second half something they will have trouble
sitting through. I know some will wonder where the guns have gone, but
at the same time this is not a story of battle but of people. The
horrors of the first hour (filmed in the now standard shaky cam style)
make the poignancy of Captain Zidi's quest all the more touching, since
he wants to make his mens sacrifice and trip into hell worth something.
You really have to be patient and go with the film and let the film
reward you in its own way. I suspect that knowing the film shifts gears
for the second half helps since you don't have expectations of a two
hour battle. I know that my initial attempt at watching this film blind
lead me to believe this was going to be wall to wall action, however a
friend who borrowed my copy before I could finish it warned me of the
tone change and I think it helped me a great deal when I finally
watched it from start to finish.

You really should see this film since it ultimately speaks to all
people who send their sons and daughters off to war and why we need to
remember them.

9plus out of 10 And yes its a true story.
<|_=00=_|>
Prior to watching this movie I have read a few decent reviews about it.
After watching it, I must admit, it exceeded my expectations. Very
realistic battle scenes, good character development, a bit weak on the
romance side of things, but hey, this isn't a chick flick.

My Chinese Mandarin skills are weak, so I appreciate the good quality
English subtitles provided.

Overall, I think China has taken a good step in creating this movie so
that it does not appear like a "state-run, propaganda" film...rather a
real film with deep meaning and quality entertainment value.

This film makes me ponder the question, will there be more movies like
this to come from China? I certainly hope so!
