
Very rarely do prequels match up with their predecessors. As I'm not
the biggest Underworld fan, I can honestly say that I wasn't expecting
much. However, I should've expected more, as the latest, yet earliest
installment is easily my favorite in the series. It ain't art, but it's
the shining example of why we go to the movies: to escape into a world
of mythology, fantasy, and crazy vampire/werewolf action.

For the first time in the series, the filmmakers have decided to leave
out the rock that probably was the reason the films have been
successful: Kate Beckinsale. I'm guessing this was a production
risk/choice, but it seems to have paid off. Selene's absence from the
story is necessary to tell the story of how the Lycans rose to power,
how Viktor was driven insane (though we pretty much already know how),
and, as off topic as it may be, how simply awesome Michael Sheen is.

Very rarely do the actors make an action movie good. Most action movies
rely on explosions and (surprise!) action to enhance the quality and
generally feature run of the mill copycat characters. Sheen's Lucian
and Bill Nighy's Viktor will always stand out in the realm of
action/fantasy characters to me, and it's easy to see why. Sheen's turn
as Lucian is fierce, determined, and one of my favorite performances in
an action movie I've seen in years. Despite playing a (mostly)
villainous role in the first film, Lucian is the hero of this film, and
it totally gives you a new spin on things. Sheen's brave and dedicated
performance really makes the character work, while Bill Nighy is once
again effectively creepy as Viktor. Rhona Mitra's presence as Sonja is
welcome, though she doesn't carry the same charisma that Beckinsale
does, making her an ill advised choice to be Selene's replacement (as
she so obviously is).

The action in Underworld, though obviously restrained by a lower
budget, is once again great. There's some nice dueling, the obvious
gore and blood galore, and a nice Lord of the Rings style battle at the
end. What it comes down to is that Underworld does nothing new, but
does everything right in maintaining a steady river of entertainment. I
was never bored, and I don't think you will be either.

The film does answer a lot of questions and provides some nice insight
to the Lycans (which were my favorite parts about the first two films),
though it suffers from the same fate as most prequels do...even a
casual viewer of this series knows which characters will live, which
will die, and how it will end. The film isn't really about the
resolution, but rather the journey to the end. In fact, it's made in
such a way that you can certainly watch the trilogy in chronological
order.

When it comes down to it, I liked 'Lycans' a lot. It's a worthy
installment in the series, and certainly not a disappointment to me.
It's got good action, a wonderful lead performance from Michael Sheen,
and should satisfy fans of the series and fans of mythological stories
altogether.
<|_=00=_|>
I came back about an hour ago from the 3:45 showing here in Toronto.
I've seen the first two movies, and I have to say I'm glad they brought
back Michael Sheen and Bill Nighy; the second film just wasn't quite
the same without those two. Lucian is the character you love to
sympathize for and Viktor is the character you love to hate.

I'm so very glad the story was more focused on Lucian as it's a nice
change from Selene and Michael being in the spotlight (not to mention
Michael Sheen's arguably superior acting ability). As for Rhona Mitra,
I won't say she was better than Kate Beckinsale but I can't say she was
any less of an asset. Not only did she look great, but she executed her
lines superbly. I will however say that I find Sonja's character much
more interesting than Selene's. The chemistry between Lucian and Sonja
was much better than that of the chemistry between Michael and Selene.

The story was much more intriguing, emotional and tragic than that of
either of the previous two expeditions (this being of course
subjective), as many who recall the flashbacks presented within will
agree. It was also faithful to the material, and it's good that they
didn't compromise for the sake of "improving" the story.

Overall, I can't think of another prequel that brought such raw emotion
to the table, and regardless of the fact that Len Wiseman was not
directing this one (though he was at the helm in other ways), you
wouldn't know by watching it as it did a good job maintaining the same
feel as the first two. The score also added to a lot of the emotion.

In regards to the possibility of a 4th movie: if they choose to
continue on from this prequel as I think they should, they should bring
in Amelia as she is one of the few characters that has yet to be
explored fully.
<|_=00=_|>
What I wanted...I wanted an epically filmed visceral movie wherein
thousands of Lycans are pitted against thousands of Vampires in full
armor on horseback. Wow! What a great movie THAT would have been.

What I got...was somehow...better. I honestly can't say that I'm
disappointed, although I just KNEW I would be if they left off that
bit. What they give us is story-driven rather than effects or
action-driven. I know that sounds ridiculous when talking about a movie
in which action and effects are completely necessary in order to
properly tell the story, but in all too many cases, they end up
overshadowing the story and eliminating any sense of storytelling. I am
happy to say that such is not the case with Underworld: Rise of the
Lycans.

I won't spoil the movie as so many have. I will say that the obvious
parallels between Sonja and Selene's characters are endearing, and
Sonja's love of Lucien is breathtaking. The overall feel of the movie
is as dark and Gothic as the original work, beautifully echoing the
brilliance of that film which caught us so by surprise in September of
2003.

This still leaves a few small questions, and I would have loved to see
Kraven make the deal with Lucien and cut Viktor's mark off of him, but
you can't have everything, and all in all, this will run back to front
with the original. All that's left now, is an extension of the Story of
Underworld: Evolution; one that either gives the viewers a satisfactory
ending, or perpetuates the species...of Underworld films, that is.

All in all? This ROCKS! 

It rates an 8.4/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a fan of either of the first two Underworld movies you are
going to like this one as well. This movie seems to take place a short
time after the creation of both races but some time before the events
that open Underworld Evolution. The entire story of the feud between
the vampires and lycans is told in 90 minutes with plenty of action
interspersed throughout. My only complaint is that the movie could have
been longer with more character development. An hour and a half is
hardly enough time to tell a love story, which is what is at the heart
of this movie. Also, a little more depth could have been given to
Raze's character as his origins are shown but not in much detail. These
plot points are sacrificed to keep the action scenes rolling but the
action is great. There are several clashes between vamps and lycans
that put those of the first two movies to shame. The special effects
are amazing as usual. My hope is that Rise of the Lycans will do well
at the box offices and we will all be treated to an extended directors
cut on DVD. The plot themes of slavery, forbidden love, and revolution
could use a little more screen time in my opinion. Oh and lets all hope
for another sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
In a nutshell:

The GOOD: The storyline is great. It's a very appropriate prequel for
the Underwolrd series. DEFINITELY for fans, and also for anyone that
want to start getting into the series. There's a BONUS at the end.

The acting is believable and somehow very emotional. Although, nothing
Oscar-worthy, it's really worthy of your time.

The special effect is quite amazing. Looks like those 1980's horror
flick. Very classic, in a way.

The tone is everything! I really love the moody tone of the movie. Very
effective in this type of movies.

The BAD: Although I mentioned some goods there are a few bads.
Everything just wasn't enough.

The castle looks very small. Hence, really takes away the epic feeling
to it.

The war was also quite small. Walking into the theater, I was hoping
for an epic war between the Vampire and the Lycans. But no, the fight
focuses on the main characters.

I was also expecting more for the special effects and costumes.
Especially in this era of movie-making. The filmmakers should've gone a
step further in bringing us the realism of the picture.

OVERALL: Underworld: Rise of the Lycans is a great movie to catch. Full
of drama and action. Definitely worth the money and time, especially
for fans.
<|_=00=_|>
I was hoping it would be good yet I didn't expect it to be 'this' good.

Honestly, this was 'so' well paced. Actually got me anxious, and thats
a bit of a rarity. And in a good way.

First off the story was very interesting from start to finish and the
script very well crafted. All of the elements... Love, machismo,
heroic, underdog, special abilities, honor, suspense, scandal,
comradeship, good vs bad just so many elements. However the difference
with this film is they were all intertwined so well. Not the usual
'chemistry cocktail' roll of the dice.

The cinematic hat trick... acting, directing and the written story
itself all melted like cheese on a hot Philly steak.

I understand the "Category" this film falls near however, over all very
well crafted. Some other "Film Makers" should take a few lessons.

I hope there's another.
<|_=00=_|>
I was going to wait until Sunday to go see this with my niece and her
friends but I was a little apprehensive about how violent it was and
wanted to check it out first...Okay, okay, that was part of the reason.
The other reason I went to the first matin√©e showing on opening day was
because I was so *nervous* about this film. I so wanted to like the
Underworld franchise. I love fantasy, sci-fi and especially vampires
and werewolves. I am always anxious to see how another writer, actor,
director or other artist brings them to life (er, so to speak). I,
however, have never been quite so underwhelmed and disappointed as with
the first two of this series. I can appreciate what Len Wiseman and
Patrick Tatapoulos were trying to achieve with their new version of
werewolves - "lycans" - but I was actually embarrassed by their world's
version of vampires. What a bunch of poseurs! Well, Bill Nighy aside.
Even Kate Beckinsale, whom I do like as an actress, failed to give me,
a female, that "you go girl" pumped-up feeling about a tough-as-nails
heroine. In fact - and I'm not so sure this hasn't been the intention
all along - it gave me a whole new appreciation for werewolves. Oh yes,
and Michael Sheen.

I'm not even really going to touch on Underworld: Evolution because it
was excruciating to sit through and, except for Tony Curran (Marcus)
and getting to see the proto-werewolf, William, it was a waste of
celluloid. Underworld 3 *should* have been Underworld 2 (or 1, even).

So, hence my apprehension. I really wanted this movie to be good, but
had already been fooled twice by this franchise. What brought me back?
Three things: Len Wiseman *wasn't* directing, Kate Beckisnale's Selene
character was *not* an integral part of this plot, and Michael Sheen's
Lucian was. Lucian and Viktor (Nighy) were the only things that kept me
in that theater seat in the first installment. (The second I watched on
a Starz movie channel, couldn't even bring myself to rent it.) Well, I
went and saw it and my anxiety has abated and I somehow
feel...vindicated. This movie seriously rocked it out. First of all, it
made sense. I had to watch the first movie a few more times (in pieces)
to really get a grasp of the whole story. Second, the characters were
engaging. Rhona Mitra, while not really allowed to show off much but
her gorgeous figure and face, was still a much more sympathetic
character than Selene ever was. (Edit: After a second viewing, I've had
a new appreciation for Mitra. She plays a perfect tough but tender
kinda broad and that final scene between her and Sheen...guhhhh! Ripped
my heart out.) And maybe this is because I'm a girl but I seriously
missed the romance from the first two. (Truly, the Sonya/Lucian angle
was the only one - forget whatever that was between Selene and
Michael...and what *was* that???) Third, the creatures are absolutely
fantastic in this. Rarely did I ever get that feeling in this film that
I was playing a video game. And fourth- well, actually fourth and
fifth- Michael Sheen and Bill Nighy. I don't know if it's their British
accents (to my American ear) that allow them to bring gravity to an
otherwise sparse script, or the fact that I'm still trying to rectify
in my mind that these are the same guys that I just saw in
"Frost/Nixon" and "Notes on a Scandal", respectively. Michael Sheen a
sex symbol? Yeah, believe it. I'd love a nice life-size Lucian poster
for my room. *blushes* Ahem, anyway, where was I...

...Right. The movie is only an hour and a half long and it flew by for
me. The other two were hovering closer to two hours and they both felt
twice as long and I was fidgety in my seat the whole time. It is a
violent movie, natch, but with the bullets replaced by arrows, it was
no less bloody but maybe a bit less jarring and a little easier on the
eardrums. And maybe I enjoyed it a bit more this time with a nice
balance of romance. It's no Academy Award winner, but then again I
don't put much faith in Oscar these days. If you've never seen the
other two movies, don't feel you have to see them to appreciate this
one. It is a prequel but should have been first. It is a nice bit of
fantasy escapism. If you are delicate about violence and gloom, this
might not be for you, but I for one am looking forward eagerly to
seeing it again on Sunday.
<|_=00=_|>
"Rise of the Lycans", on the surface, makes a perfectly well working
prequel. The loss of Kate Beckinsale and Scott Speedman is compensated
by a great Rhona Mitra and especially Michael Sheen's titanic effort.
The look and the action are amazing, considering the somewhat lower
budget, and the story makes sense to prepare us all for the things to
come in the other two movies. All in all, the trilogy is round now and
does not disappoint in any department, unless you are taking everything
a bit too literally and wonder how werewolves can make babies.

It is interesting, however, to peek below the surface. The makers
mentioned in interviews they see similarities to "Romeo & Juliet"
insofar as Lucien and Sonja are lovers not allowed to get together. One
crucial difference, however, is that Romeo and Juliet came from two
noble families, whereas in "Rise of the Lyans", Sonja is a member of
the aristocratic pale vampire rulers, who are sipping glasses of blood
on the castle, while Lucien is with the ugly, hairy slaves, the
werewolves exploited as cheap labor force. We don't really get to see
what this work consists of except carrying stones around. Also the love
story isn't explained enough in the running time of not much more than
80 minutes PAL until the credits start to roll. But the point is that
"Rise of the Lycans" is a hardly disguised class struggle story.
Similar to the Italian socialist cinema of the 1960s which would show
the rebellion of poor farmers against the rich property owners, the
working class has to realise their value (in Lucien's words: "we are
more than animals") and claim their human rights. When Lucien says
"this is just the beginning", it may seem to the audience that he
jokingly refers to other other two movies which have shown us already
how the story continues after this prequel. In the subtext, though, he
is making a very serious statement that freedom is the foundation of a
life worth living, and everything else will be built up now upon this
basic condition. It's a pity that the movie doesn't elaborate more on
that and doesn't spend some additional time on the character
development, either, because it could have been the best of the
trilogy. Alas, I voted almost equally 8-7-7 for the three movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Underworld: Rise of the Lycans : In this prequel we get little of Romeo
and Juliet and a dash of Spartacus. The vampires have bred themselves a
race of Lycan slaves to guard them during the daylight hours, but when
Lucian, the favored pet of Viktor the ruling vampire, falls in love
with his daughter things go bad rather quickly. The CGI werewolves are
leaps and bounds better than their previous incarnations in this series
and the only CGI complaint I have is to the occasionally bad CGI blood
spray. Rhona Mitra makes for a hot vampire, and Bill Nighy and Michael
Sheen return to chew up some nice scenery. After watching the big
battle one is forced to ask the question that pops up after watching
any of the Underworlds movies, "How did the Lycans lose the war?"
Seriously, the vampires in these films are as fragile as a 1978 Ford
Pinto.
<|_=00=_|>
Again the eternal fight between vampires and werewolves in this
exciting prequel set in the Dark Ages. This original and gore-soaked
vampires film begins centuries ago. Unknown to humanity, centuries old
blood feud raged between aristocrat vampires and subdued legion of
werewolves known as Lycans who work as slaves. For centuries Sonja (
Rhona Mitra ) is a loyal soldier of the vampire clan, but she falls in
love with the Lycan Lucian ( Michael Sheen ). The tale traces the
origins of the confrontation between a ruling class of bloodsuckers and
their onetime slaves, the werewolves . A young Lycan named Lucian
emerges as a powerful rebel who rallies the rebellious werewolves to
rise up against Viktor, Sonja's father and the brutal vampire king .
Lucian is joined by his secret lover, Sonja, in his struggle against
the Vampire army and his fight for Lycan freedom . Neverheless , the
war was not as it had seemed. In one night, the lies that had united
the kind vampire had been exposed. Sonja has formed a secret alliance
with Lucian, ruler of the werewolf clan to overthrow Viktor ( Bill
Nighy ), vampires leader who has enslaved them . But Viktor's lust for
power and domination has failed. As Viktor was not the savior they had
been led to believe . Soon the hunt would be on for his killer . As the
war between vampires and werewolves get more personal and deadly , they
decide to launch a full-scale attack on the hideout in order to
extinguish the race.

This amazing movie displays noisy action , thrills ride, stirring
fighting , graphic violence , brief nudism with mild sex scene and is
pretty amusing . It packs large loads of guts and gore , there's a huge
body count, this one actually knocks off an immense amount, several
vampires and werewolves are staked bloodily in the chest, even more
impaled with large claws. There's really savage decapitation, plenty of
bodies ripped in scraps and half, including some of the most tears
ever, that spill lots of blood and numerous get shot up with arcs .
Most of vampires, Lycans and humans victims are relegated to being
bitten in the throat and neck and the breathtaking fighting scenes are
realized with magnificent special and visual effects as well as
excellent make-up department . The film blends horror, suspense,
struggles, rip-roaring action, terror and lots of gore. Set design is
of first class , settings are stylized, Gothic scenarios , and spooky
and ghoulish atmosphere. Specials effects are breathtaking, part of
them are made by means of computer generator and part by make up .
Bone-chilling and atmospheric musical score by Paul Haslinger and
colorful and dark cinematography by Ross Emery. Spectacular and moving
direction by Patrick Tatopoulos. He's author of set design and
production design of Underworld I and II and known blockbusters, such
as ¬®10.000 BC, Indepencence day, I robot, Resident evil, Pith black ¬®,
among them . The interesting screenplay is written by Len Wiseman, who
directed the former entries , along with Danny McBride and Kevin
Grevioux . All actors and technicians participated in the previous
outings with exception Kate Beckinsale , being well replaced by Rhona
Mitra as relentless action woman . Recommended to those who amuse those
kind of vampires-werewolves films or those enjoy in general.
