
Based on the long-running Korean comic of the same name, Priest is one
of those films that's been stuck in development hell for the last few
years, running a gauntlet of director and lead actor changes and more
recently, coping with a series of release date delays in order to
facilitate the inevitably shoddy post-production conversion to 3D
that's currently so beloved of mainstream cinema.

The added dimension isn't going to win any prizes - for the most part
it is relatively pointless, and the world in which Priest takes place
is not interesting enough to require any additional depth.

The ever-reliable Paul Bettany stars as the titular character. Stoic to
the end, he's not your typical priest - more a deadly weapon,
specialising in martial arts and weapons skills that make him the
perfect killer. He exists in a time where vampires are a horrifying
reality, battling humans for control of a conflict-ridden, barren
wasteland punctuated only by large, soulless, church-controlled cities
where humans live only for their faith and 'an honest day's labour'.

You don't watch films like this expecting an Oscar-winning tale, and
action-wise, Priest is fairly solid, packing in a series of high-octane
fights and chases for its duration. Helmer Scott Stewart knows where to
put a camera in order to maximise the impact upon the viewer, and the
oil-slick manner in which everything is filmed shows a director moving
away from his previous field as a visual effects specialist and having
a decent stab at mastering his craft.

Unfortunately, there's not a lot going on when knives and bullets
aren't being flung around - the supporting cast of Cam Gigandet, Maggie
Q and Karl Urban are given next to nothing to do and the dialogue
serves only to move the film along to its next set-piece. Story-wise,
it's paper-thin, and it's difficult to care about the motivation of any
character when the levels of emotion on display resemble that of Mount
Rushmore.

It is also strangely edited - 87 minutes is very short for a film with
this kind of budget, and there's all manner of blunt cuts that give
credence to the theory that there was once a longer, potentially better
film here. 

So, was Priest worth the wait? Not particularly, but for all its
faults, it certainly has promise. Depending on box office performance,
it could really benefit from a deeper, beefed-up sequel along the lines
of Blade II. The good news is that there's plenty of source material
available for a return to this mythology - it's just a shame that it's
as shallow as the film it's spawned.
<|_=00=_|>
A priest throwing crosses like throwing stars into a vampire caught my
attention. 

Vampire meets post-apocalypse meets religious iconography meets
Western. Staring Paul Bettany. I had the misfortune to see Legion and
I've yet to forgive Mr. Bettany for participating in that wretched
wince-fest. So given the actor and the genre, it's probably not going
to be an Oscar-nominated type of film. But you know that the moment you
saw the trailer.

As a Catholic (the orthodox type that grudgingly accepts Vatican II but
mutters about 'the good old days' entirely tongue-in-cheek) it caught
my eye. If you happen to be Catholic, every time you see a trailer for
a movie where Catholicism is notably featured, you think to yourself
'Oh boy, how are they going to do a hack job that makes it out to be
nothing like it actually is this time?'. Can't blame writers though,
it's a religion that provides a deep, deep mine of interesting looking
iconography and concepts (Apparently Catholic priests are the
Ghostbusters of any movie that involves exorcism. You know who they're
going to call. An old priest and a young priest.)

Interestingly enough, this film really... Doesn't involve religion.
There's the iconography of Catholicism, a few words here and there, but
there's really no actual religious content to the film. It's as if a
tourist from another planet did a really in-depth one month tour of all
things Catholic, but unable to understand the language, did the best
job they could of representing it to their friends back home. The film
doesn't denigrate Catholicism, it treats it more like a grab bag of
'ooo, that sounds / looks cool' material. It's a post-apocalyptic
vampire western that involves characters that participate in a world
where there's a State-run religion that is akin to Catholicism in a
weird sort of 'parallel dimension where everyone has a goatee' type
way. It's what you think you know, but not.

The movie itself is visually interesting. In many ways, it's similar to
Event Horizon - another film where a concept wrapped in bad dialog with
little to no sane plot caught the viewer's eye with interesting
imagery.

Do you like vampires? Do you like westerns? Do you fancy a
post-apocalyptic world? Does religion intrigue you, but in a 'not
enough to be serious about it' way?

This is your film. It's not a bad film. It's not a great film. If you
like certain things, like I do - vampires, vampire killing in a
kick-ass style and a certain visual je ne sais quoi, 'world view'
that's unlike anything else out there, it's worth seeing. 

People you shouldn't take with you to see the film: Serious boring
types that get upset if there aren't things like 'good dialog',
'character development' or 'a plot that doesn't make you put your head
in your hands'. Much like Ke$ha, it's one of those catchy things you
would never admit to enjoying to anyone you respected. 

If you happen to be Catholic, rest assured that it's not butchering the
religion and presenting some horrific view of it that alienates all who
would see it. That's because it doesn't understand religion, but hey
(blame the material it's based on - eastern writers tend to have a
really strange view of Catholicism and Christianity in general.)

See it in 2D if possible. Like any 3D film originally shot in 2D, the
3D isn't great. Not as bad as Alice, but Avatar it ain't. While rated
PG-13, taking anyone who isn't in college or older to see it isn't
going to add anything to their life at this point.

And, if you, like me, enjoy it - try not to mention that in respectable
company and we can just nod at each other in passing, secure in the
belief that not everything enjoyable under the sun needs to be
Oscar-worthy material.
<|_=00=_|>
Priest was exactly what I'd hoped for... Visually stunning, great
action and fight scenes, decent effects - and in my case being a
red-blooded woman, plenty of eye candy. I don't go into these
sci-fi/action/monster movies expecting Oscar-caliber story and dialog,
so when critics pan these movies for that sort of thing, I just roll my
eyes and know I'll probably love it. Maybe that makes me simple, but I
go to the movies to escape reality not drown in more of it, so Priest
did the trick. I liked it enough to hope they get a sequel out of it. 

Paul Bettany and Karl Urban both did a great job in their roles, as did
Maggie Q. We were forced to see it in 3D because we missed the 2D show
(but at least there was a choice). I tend to not care either way, and
go for 2D over paying the '3D tax', but there were some aerial views
that were pretty cool in 3D. If you dig dark, fun movies like
'Underworld,' you'll probably like Priest and like any dark,
graphic-novel adaptation, it's worth seeing on the big screen for the
imagery.
<|_=00=_|>
Priest opened last Friday in Spain.I went to the cinema without knowing
the mange or the back story. I watched the trailer and I though the
movie was going to be a Paul Anderson style post apocalyptic crap fest.
Oh boy, how wrong I was. Yes there's "bullet-time" sequences in the
action but that's not the point. The action scenes are well shoot and
you can see clearly the movements and the characters.neat editing. It's
like a superhero movie that rips on zombie movies, vampire movies, mad
max movies, spaghetti western movies and a little bit blade runner too.
Some of "Daybreakers" some of I am legend.ButÂ…it works. It's not my
kind of a movie but I found myself yelling and having fun all along its
87 minutes running. Yes, there's CGI creatures but the design of the
monsters it's really cool. There's a very well done animated prologue
and stunning sets and photography of the apocalyptic plain field.It's a
decent comic book-action-western-horror film but don't expect deep on
it.it's simple, effective and entertaining. Well done!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't get me wrong I'm not going to gush about how great this film was,
but to be fair it didn't insult my intelligence either and that's a big
plus for me when it comes to films these days. I purposely avoided
reading any literature in relation to the "story" of Priest to avoid
any bias or pointless expectations. 

I wanted to judge it based on what was told in the film alone and
honestly I have no complaints as far as the story development went, it
was pretty straight forward with the plot, the characters were put into
position early on, no dicking about with badly handled sub-plots and
phony intrigue. I wouldn't consider this to be a pretentious movie in
any way, it's says what it's about from the beginning and it doesn't
deviate from that narrative, it doesn't bring in (or keep) useless
characters, (unlike "Sucker Punch"), it's a gateway movie but it
doesn't treat it's support characters like balsa wood cut-outs (i.e
"Thor")

Sure there could have been more action but what action there was, was
nicely done, visuals weren't eye popping gorgeous but suited the film
none-the-less. This was a lean movie, no needless fluff no overly
complex ungainly plot just a "wham bam thank you ma'am" type deal.

This is one of the rare times I'm looking forward to a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Visual effects developer-turned-director, Scott Stewart, delivers his
second supernatural action film that claims to be "adapted" from the
comic book "Priest". Supposedly based on a Korean comic or "manhwa" of
same name, the movie "Priest" has NOTHING to do with the original, not
even the name of the squinting "strong silent type" main protagonist
played by Paul Bettany. Fallen angels, deal with a demon, multiple time
frame story lines and all other interesting elements of the original be
damned. And perhaps it was for the better since the manhwa's multiple
story lines taking place in the Crusades, the old west and the future
would just confuse the heck out of everyone.

So they crafted a whole new premise to appeal to the superficial summer
action lover. And the one thing they did right was to give us vampires
that do not sparkle in the sunlight. These vampires are all teeth and
claws who swarm across the world at night attacking from giant hives, a
clear reference to the "Aliens" franchise. These savage beasts have
been at constant war with mankind since the dawn of time. A beautifully
bloody animated prologue sets the back-story of the film about how
mankind's salvation came in the form of the Priests, holy warriors who
battled the vampire hordes to near extinction.

This story revolves around one of the veteran priests who lives among
the other downtrodden human inhabitants of a walled dystopian city
ruled by the now totalitarian church. When he receives word that his
niece was abducted by a murderous pack of vampires, the priest breaks
his sacred vows to venture out of the city and rescue her. He is joined
on his crusade by his niece's boyfriend, a young trigger-finger
wasteland sheriff. But as the duo soon discover, reports of the
vampires' return have been greatly understated. With a powerful yet
familiar threat is leading the newly reformed vampire hordes, the
wayward Priest and his companion must fend off supernatural foes and
contend with a group of fellow Priests sent to hunt down their rogue
brother.

"Priest" is one clichÃ© storm of a film that commits the cardinal sins
of a paper thin plot and forgettable characters thanks to the
inexperience of first time writer Cory Goodman. The characters are so
forgettable that the writer never even bothered to give many of them
names. Paul Bettany's main character is just called "Priest" (It is not
his name by the way). There is also "Black Hat" (because he wears a
black hat) and "The Priestess" (because she is a female priest) just to
name a few. They are less like actual characters and more like blank
character archetypes thrown in for plot convenience. Archetypes like
Cam Gigandet's hot headed Sheriff Hicks (a second reference to Aliens
perhaps?) and Lily Collin's damsel in distress Lucy are just as
forgettable even though they do have names.

Failing to provide interesting characters or a good story, the least
the producers could do was to deliver a holy hell load of violence with
a hard R or M18 rating. Sadly the animated prologue has more blood and
guts than the entire film combined since most of the gorier battles
take place in darkness or amid dust. The Fights are well choreographed
but they tend to be more stylish than practical and sometimes border on
illogical. For example, a duel on a high speed train is awesome but
none of the combatants ever thought of kicking his opponent off the
side? But despite these failings of the flesh, some salvation comes to
"Priest" in the form of an excellent production design. From the dark
cyberpunk inspired Church city to the post apocalyptic western towns
dotting the hostile desert lands, great attention had been paid to make
those places as believable as possible. Perhaps most memorable would be
the tech on display in the film which includes futuristic motorcycles,
tricked out shotguns and the Priests' arsenal of deadly cross-themed
blade weapons.

Beyond the props, flawless visual effects and startling CGI, the movie
tries as well to inject its narrative with deeper subtexts. The Priests
themselves call to mind stories of War veterans who were shunned by
society and unable to re-integrate, a theme made most famous in "Rambo:
First Blood". The film also makes fun of how some churches twist their
religion into a means of control, the hypocritical "holier-than-thou"
attitude of modern Christians and their single minded belief that they
remain "saved from evil" as long as they worship God. It is not
intentionally "anti-Christian" or "anti-catholic". It is more of a
clever satire but there will always be the more conservative ones who
would cry sacrilege.

At only 87 minutes long, Priest moves at a brisk pace and at the very
least it is not boring. It would no doubt entertain action junkies and
fans of post apocalyptic thrillers although more time could have been
spent developing the characters or delving into the underlying themes
that were addressed. Priest is spectacular but soulless, with a nice
looking "body" but barely enough "blood" and "spirit" to satisfy the
more sophisticated movie goer.

6.5/10 Rounded down to 6
<|_=00=_|>
Love the actors, the concept, the genre, the fight scenes, and i want
maggie Q to have my baby....but this movie was only so-so.

It needed a better script i think. The story just seemed hollow.
Everything they did, just seemed half finished. Paul, who i thnk is
awesome, didn't seem to resonate with any of the other cast. It really
was like this movie needed another hour to develop itself and them it
would have been great. 

Worth seeing, if you like action movies, but sadly, your not going to
remember this movie by next month.

If you like a good scifi western, see serenity.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved Priest. It was a visually stunning piece of art, very beautiful
even in the post-apocalyptic world in which it was set. Each scene was
thoughtfully composed and really pulled you into the film... even
without that annoying 3D. (I saw it in 2D and completely loved every
second.) I've never read the comics so I didn't have any preconceived
notions about what I'd be getting into. The film's composition, pace,
story, and overall look are what drew me in, the characters kept me
there. Sure there were a few "surprises" that weren't really surprises,
but that's only because I don't think they were intended to be
surprises to the audience, only to other characters.

Karl Urban is awesome (all the time, not just in Priest ;)) and Paul
Bettany is a quiet, understated hero in the title role. Even the music
was gorgeous.

Highly recommended. =D
<|_=00=_|>
In all honesty while the film looked kind of interesting I was from
reading reviews that it was a waste of time(not just on IMDb). So I
watched Priest expecting little, but while it had a fair amount of
problems with it I found it decent. Is it the best of year? No. The
worst? Nowhere near for me. Priest in my mind is somewhere near the
lower-middle of the spectrum.

Where Priest scores especially is in the costume and set design which
look wonderful, and the photography and editing looks very slick and
the lighting atmospheric. The soundtrack is excellent too, with a
rather epic feel to it sometimes. I enjoyed the performances of Paul
Bettany and Cam Gigandet, was intrigued somewhat by the characters,
even if they are a little vacuous and found the direction decent.

What wasn't so good was primarily the length, I personally think Priest
was on the too-short side. Had the film been longer, the script could
have been less choppy and underdeveloped and the story-though it did
have an interesting concept to work from- less rushed and simplistic.
Mostly I was impressed with the stylish look of the film, but I did
occasionally find the effects on the artificial side.

Overall, underdeveloped and rather rushed, but the film's look
especially saves it. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Futurist film based on graphic novel series "Priest" by Min-Woo Hyung
with interesting screenplay by Cory Goodman . After centuries of war
between humans and vampires , the Church assigns warrior-priests to
defeat the vampires . The survivors are kept in reserves and hives and
the men live in chaotic cities governed by the Church . A rebel priest
(Paul Bettany , Gerard Butler was originally cast) disobeys church law
to track down the vampires who kidnapped his niece (Lily Collins , Phil
Collins's daughter) . His War is Eternal but his mission is just the
beginning . The outcast priest sets out to look for his niece along
with a young sheriff named Hicks (Cam Gigandet , though Steven Strait
was originally cast) . Then , they encounter themselves chased by
bloodthirsty , predatory vampires which have added them to his food
chain . Sooner a warrior Priestess (Maggie Q) unites the Priest and
Hicks in their quest . The duo along with the priestess must confront
carnivorous mutants , hordes of warrior vampires starving of human
blood and some of the most horrifying creatures ever made . At a hive
the group is surrounded , as they encounter a pack of carnivorous ,
crawling creatures that are waiting for them , facing their destruction
and exposed to cruel bites by meat-eating sickos and finally battle
their deadly enemy , Black Hat (Karl Urban) . They undertake a
desperate fighting to survive and chase a train to find his niece
called Lucy (this is a throwback to the Dracula of Bram Stoker, where
there is also a character named Lucy, who is also an engaged redheaded
girl in need of saving) .

This exciting picture is set in a post-apocalyptic , an alternate world
, one ravaged by centuries of battle between human and bloodsuckers ,
it contains thrills , chills , plot twists , action-filled with fierce
fights and lots of gore and guts . The terror and action moments are
fast moving and compactly realized . The film turns out to be a
crossover among several films , taking ideas here and there , resulting
to be an entertaining movie . And of course the theme of people being
stranded in a hostile , perilous environment with attackers creatures
is justly reminiscent of many others films as Pitch Black , Pandorum ,
Descent or Resident Evil saga . The creepy images of wide range from
the genuinely fantastic to the bizarre along with an eerie and amazing
frames . It's predictable but also its predictability is redeemed for
some extraordinary surprises and in part by the charismatic acting from
the main protagonists , Bettany and Gigandet . Furthermore a notorious
secondary cast as Christopher Plummer , Brad Dourif , Stephen Moyer ,
Alan Dale , Madchen Amick , among others . The flesh-eating mutants
appearance deliver the goods, plenty of screams, shocks and tension.
The make-up assistants and visual effects artists create the truly
terrible cannibal vampires , adding spectacular frames in 3D .
Horrifying and astonishing images about eerie events and creepy
scenarios are colorfully photographed by Don Burguess , and including
luminous scenes from a futurist desert . Thrilling and suspenseful
musical score by Christopher Young , an expert on dark atmospheres .
The motion picture was well directed by Scott Charles Stewart , a
visual effects specialist and who previously made a similar flick
titled Â¨LegionÂ¨ . Rating : Acceptable and passable . Worthwhile
watching .
