
This is a coming of age film set initially and briefly in the late
1950s and mostly in the early 1960s. The boy, Bryce, is chased by his
neighbor girl, Juli. And is he chased! Juli is immediately smitten or
"flipped" by Bryce's eyes and the story unfolds.

What is unusual about the story telling is that each major event is
played back twice - once through the eyes and voice of Bryce and once
through the eyes and voice of Juli. It's the same scene, but you
wouldn't know that from their differing viewpoints.

Juli is the adventurous and interesting one. Bryce just wants to fit in
at their Junior High School. Juli slowly begins to unlike Bryce and
Bryce slowly begins to appreciate Juli. Will they ever meet at the same
emotional place at the same time? That is the drama and story.

The art direction and era are right on. It is the Eisenhower and
Kennedy years in look, and even in feel. The wives are subordinate to
the husbands. The children are mostly respectful to their parents. And
the teachers teach and the students learn. But, you can see the seeds
being laid for the rebellious war babies of the late 1960s.

Rob Reiner is a talented director for romances - "When Harry Met
Sally." And he is a talented director for handling young actors -
"Stand By Me." He combines these talents to help us understand the
better part of the human condition; that is, love, respect, sacrifice,
forgiveness, and honor. And we have fun and laugh along the way. This
is like the TV program, "Wonder Years" - but heightened and deepened.

-Bob, a Heartland Truly Moving Picture Award Jury Member
<|_=00=_|>
Flipped is a one in a million film - I mean, REALLY one in a million.
It's refreshing and lovely, dramatic and hilarious. It does what few
films do in our time (or rather what they don't do): Flipped does not
sacrifice its integrity for raunchy, gratuitous content. It's real. The
emotions are real. The characters are real. And while it certainly
isn't G-rated fluff (and do not be fooled - this is not a film for
young children), the movie is definitely gentle and innocent in many
ways. On the downside, without giving anything away, the ending of the
film could have been better patched together, but overall the movie is
a cinematic gem like no other. Go see Flipped!
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1973, an episode of "All in the Family" told the same story
from three different perspectives, one of which was from the point of
view of Mike "Meathead" Stivic, played by Rob Reiner. Watching his
latest directorial effort, I wondered if the "he said / she said"
gimmick of that episode ("Everybody Tells the Truth") was what
attracted Reiner to "Flipped," the young-adult novel by Wendelin Van
Draanen, which employs the same multi-POV technique that Lawrence
Durrell perfected with his "Alexandria Quartet" in the late 1950s. The
film version of "Flipped" shows Reiner at the top of his form, a worthy
addition to an ouevre that includes such classics as "This Is Spinal
Tap," "Misery," "When Harry Met Sally" and "Stand By Me," the 1986
period piece that "Flipped" most recalls, with its younger characters
and coming-of-age theme. At the heart of "Flipped" is Juli Baker
(Madeline Carroll), a smart, pretty and thoughtful girl who you just
can't help losing your heart to. Juli herself flips for Bryce Loski,
who is at first repelled by Juli and then slowly starts to see her for
the lovely person she is. The cast is augmented by such pros as John
Mahoney (Frasier's dad on "Cheers"), Anthony Edwards, Aidan Quinn and
Rebecca De Mornay and Penelope Ann Miller. The film offers up various
slices of life from the late '50s and early '60s that makes for a
nostalgic, romantic and very moving film. Special kudos to the
filmmakers for finding a girl to play young Juli (Morgan Lily) who
looks chillingly like Madeline Carroll; I would have bet anything the
two were sisters. For those who are bored by the dumb-dumb summer
comedies of 2010 ("The Other Guys," "Dinner for Schmucks") and the
special-effects hijinks of "Inception," this is a tender and
emotionally satisfying journey that will stay with you for years.
<|_=00=_|>
"Flipped" is superbly directed by Rob Reiner and in my book, one of his
best movies. It's a wonderfully told coming-of-age story, which I could
relate to in many ways. The main two characters, Juli and Bryce, are
very likable. Their parents, played by Penelope Ann Miller and Aidan
Quinn, Rebecca de Mornay and Anthony Edwards, respectively, are
believable in their roles, which they play excellently. I liked the
fact that the story is told from two points of views, Bryce first and
then Juli. If you want to see a really feel-good movie, instead of
watching some dumb comedy or shoot 'em up flick, go see FLIPPED! You
will not regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
"All I ever wanted was for Juli Baker to leave me alone."

Flipped is easily the best love story/relationship movie I've seen
since (500) Days of Summer. I'm the kind of guy that you couldn't pay
to watch a Nicholas Sparks movie, but that doesn't mean that I can't
appreciate a good movie about the highs and lows of love. In a year of
formulaic, mind-numbing flicks with no imagination or heart like
Letters to Juliet, Flipped is a welcome breath of fresh air. 

It's about 8 or so years in the lives of two kids who meet when when
one of them moves into a new neighborhood. Juli (played by Morgan Lily
and Madeline Carroll) is instantly smitten by Bryce (Ryan Ketzner and
Callan McAuliffe) the second she sees him drive up to his new house.
Bryce, being a typical second grade boy, finds her attention
embarrassing and unwanted. As they get older, that dynamic between them
remains pretty much the same, but we wouldn't have a very interesting
movie if that's all there was to it. Eventually Bryce finds himself on
the other side of the equation (flipped, get it?), and has to win back
the girl he never knew he always wanted.

How odd is it that a movie about a couple of kids handles the topic of
love in a more mature and genuine way than almost all of the
adult-oriented romantic comedies that we're buried under each year?
There's no doubt about it that Flipped will make you say "aww" on
occasion, but there's a lot more to it than just kids being cute.
Humor, issues of class, family conflict, and the lost idealism of youth
are introduced into the story by Bryce and Juli's respective families,
and there are several outright bittersweet or poignant scenes within
the story.

The movie is shown from the POV's of both main characters, and often
the same event will be shown from each of their perspectives. It works
really well, as it really helps the viewer to "get" both Bryce and
Juli. The kids chosen to play the older versions of the two (Carroll
and McAuliffe) are both great, the fact that the story is set in 50's
or 60's suburbia adds a believable sense of innocence to it all, and
there is just a fresh feeling to the movie that I can't really describe
with words.

I heartily recommend this to anyone who likes a good, well-written
movie, regardless of the genre. You can tell that a lot of heart went
into making Flipped, and it shows. Great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the movies I've seen lately, Flipped was amongst the most
refreshing. If it had been done by a different director and had
different screenwriters, it might be a terrible cliché. Story of first
love, known each other since kids, bla bla bla, we've all heard it
before.

But this movie, it was so pure and so realistic, which is what I love
about it most. It wasn't over the top romantic, but it was enough to
tug my heartstrings and made me go "awwww" instead of going "ewwww".

The characters felt like real people, and the issues faced in the story
felt so real and believable, it made me believe in the basic form of
love once more, and that it still existed in real life (even though I
know it's just in the movies, but still).

Anyway, if you're looking for a story that is refreshing yet vintage,
and wanting to have a lovey-dovey grin plastered on your face, then
this is the movie to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Beautifully told with all the ingredients for a good family movie. The
story is told from two different views, the view from the boy and from
the girl. A boy who is annoyed by all the attention he gets from the
girl across the street. The girl from across the street who has a super
crush on the boy tells her part of the story. The boy's father is a man
filled with hatred who dispenses politically incorrect lines throughout
the movie. The grandfather, the great John Mohoney, is the wise person
who tells the boy to really see the girl for what she is, a very
special girl. I don't want to give anything away of this jewel of a
movie. I enjoyed this movie very much and totally recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
The first few minutes sent me back a decade reminding how much we
avoided girls or getting our names attached to one..

I really liked how the story showed a basic fact (mostly at least) :

"The one you love doesn't love you back, and you don't love the one
that loves you!"

Though the main story is not that all can relate to, the background or
the base of the story was really nice. The character development was
good, not like many movies which focus on only the main characters.
Though the story was a little predictable, the movie is enjoyable and
among a few to which we can relate to.

This movie is definitely worth a watch.

And it deserves an 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Juli just had to take one look at Bryce's blue eyes, and she knew it
was true love. Bryce just had to take one notice of Juli's manic
desperation, and he knew it was going to be a friendship of torment. I
just had to take one look at the film's artfully designed poster, and I
knew "Flipped" was a film to be savoured.

A beautifully told film of first love, we flip from Juli's point of
view to Bryce's point of view, very effectively giving us the true
nature of their friendship, love and respect they have for each other.
Except in the case of middle-school graders, that love and respect can
frequently look like embarrassment, mistrust, and shame. All of those
emotions are told with intelligence, subtlety and humour.

"Flipped" has all of the comedy, naiveté and bewilderment of first
love. It takes the romantic comedy farther by actually giving us
characters with real depth. There is more going on than just Juli and
Bryce figuring out their love for each other, and every aspect of this
film is well written, touching and relevant.

"Flipped" is a cute film for everybody who fondly remembers that
fiercely independent girl or the guy with piercing blue eyes that lived
across the street.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, let's dispense immediately with the idea that this film is geared
toward teenagers and all of their sap that they go through. I assure
you "mature adults" out there that this film will delight you also,
unless you are a completely hopelessly lost Scrooge. This film should
make sense to all ages. Everyone should identify with it. I don't care
what kind of a snob, low-life, big wig, or puritan you are, you should
enjoy this film. It's never too sappy when it deals with matters of the
heart, nor is it too blunt and insensitive.

The film is told almost entirely in a voice over of one of the two main
characters. It's told in a brilliant he-said she-said style where the
same scene is often told twice from the two opposite points of view
(Juli's and Bryce's). So we see the opening scene twice. The first time
as explained by Bryce, and the second time explained by Juli. This sort
of formula is used many a time in the unfolding battle of the sexes. Of
course this doesn't happen in every scenethat would get boring.
Director Reiner gives us the proper dosage of everything in this film.
The proper amount of comedy, romance, and the proper amount of sadness.
Never is it sappy or indulgent or even presumptuous. It's a perfect
film for what it's worth. The screenplay is absolutely the work of a
fine craftsmanor craftsmen Andrew Scheinman and director Reiner. I
don't know how long it took to write or how much blood went into it,
but this film is the result of excellent work in every department. The
two child stars are perfect in their roles (although Bryce could have
done better), but the strength of the cast are in supporting actors.
The cast is full of great actors, particularly Anthony Edwards as
Bryce's arrogant, critical, smart-Aleck father, and the ever-welcome
Aidan Quinn as Juli's loving, down-to-earth, tree painting father.

I wasn't completely convinced of the excellence of the film until a
beautiful scene in which Mr. Baker (Quinn) and Juli go to visit Mr.
Baker's mentally retarded brother Daniel, who is so happy with the
world and everything in it. But this scene can't be expressed in words,
you have to see it. For what it's worth, Flipped is somewhat of a deep
film, full of parallels to the real world. All of the characters have
the proper amount of development, even the big sycamore tree that Juli
likes to sit in and watch the sunrise. Her exploits while up in that
tree are so poetic and beautiful when matched up with the pictures on
screen. It's a beautiful and insightful scene into the thoughts and
feelings of people in general, not just a teenage girl.

In this day when films are almost all big-budget action movies with
loud explosions, Flipped has explosions of its own kind. It has
explosions of heart and feeling and character, all at the appropriate
times. I did not find any ax to grind here. Other than the characters,
plot, and screenplay, it's also a technically beautiful film. The
camera captures everything so clearly with the proper color timing and
excellently framed shots. After the mid-way point of the film, being
surrounded by excellence, one starts to look for any reason to
criticize the film. I found none. Every nuance of the film is done so
genteelly and honestly, who can have a problem with it? This film
achieves what movies are meant to achieve. They are meant to reach into
are minds and draw us in, to entertain and to move us with fright,
emotion, tears, laughs, whatever may be the subject. They are meant to
create a world around us, whether in space, in the Wild West, in the
future, in Bible times, or in the case of Flipped in 1960s suburbia.
This film does exactly what it is meant to do. To touch and make us
laugh and to remember. That's what it does. It makes us remember what
happened or is happening to us. No one can give this a bad review. I
don't see how anyone can pick a fight with the film. But I'm blabbing
about nothing.

In short, Flipped is by far the best film I've seen this year. I do
hope the Academy doesn't overlook this like they do so many other
"family" films. It should at least get a few nominations, if not a win.
We'll see what happens. It's only July.

www.colewebbharter.com
