
It says that a girl named Susan Montford both wrote and directed this
"movie." No wonder she has no other credits to her name for writing or
directing. She made a severe vocational error in choosing this as her
career. This is one of the worst human creations of this millennium.

The fundamental thing wrong with this movie other than its ridiculous
story of a woman running away from four weak thugs, is the blatant and
complete lack of LOGIC.

**After she leaves the mall, she gets approached by four thugs as they
surround her. Tell me, what woman would aggressively SHOVE a potential
attacker while being surrounded, and insult them verbally? I don't mean
after an attack had already started, because then of course it's
completely normal for someone to fight back. But she shoved that guy
and pretty much escalated it to the next level. No woman would do that
unless she 1) had a weapon, 2) has the confidence of knowing that
backup is very close, and so is relatively safe from harm, or 3) the
attackers are so young, and weak looking that she's pretty sure she can
take them. None of that applied in this situation, so she was just
acting like someone that's asking to get raped or mugged. And by the
way, when the security guard approached, as SOON as he came within
viewing distance of Kim Basinger, why wouldn't she immediately either
run towards him for help, or scream?? 

**When she drives off after the security guard gets shot in the head,
she drives into a deserted part of town, and crashes. She had a good
three minute lead on the pursuers, instead of simply running off on
foot in a diagonal direction behind houses and climbing fences and
continuing, she gets out her Red Toolbox and starts messing around
under her hood. I understand she was trying to fix her car, but she
should've ran.

(I didn't even mean this to be a chronological summary of the movie,
because I loathe people who do that in their reviews, but it just so
happens that every main sequence of this movie has something so
blatantly stupid that I have to comment on it).

**Why would she carry a loud, Red Toolbox as she's trying to sneak away
in the dark? When she does get caught, one of the jokers demands for
her to open the toolbox. First she resists, then eventually opens it.
And takes out a wrench. This scene here is so rich in subtle overtones
of the complete failure of dramatic effect I have to break it down,
it's one of the dumbest scenes in the entire movie. When asked to open
the box, she's resisting at first as if it were her plan to somehow get
one of the thugs to open it themselves out of anger after she didn't
open it, in the same way that someone in some action movie might have
some device that an enemy demands that person to
touch/push/open/manipulate, and once that hero refuses to open it, the
enemy grabs that device, only to have that device automatically
dispense a chemical/shoot him in the face/render him unconscious, which
was the hero's plan all along. It feels like that's what they tried to
do with Kim Basinger here, as she opens the toolbox dramatically and
quickly takes out a WRENCH and dispatches one of the thugs, and somehow
GETS AWAY from him and the three other thugs.

**Throughout the rest of the movie, basically what you see is this
suburban house wife, sneaking around the woods as she carries her Red
Toolbox, taking out various tools used as weapons to KILL HER
ATTACKERS.

**When she was running away, how did she end up moving BACK to where
the thugs were? I think it was the scene where they had that radio
playing loudly in tribute to the dead dude. She somehow crept up on
them when I thought she was moving AWAY from them.

**Finally, this whole premise is so weak because the whole reason she's
being chased in the first place is because from the thugs' perspective,
she was a witness to a murder they committed against the security
officer earlier, and so they felt they had to kill her. How ridiculous.
As one of the thugs even said, they could've just left town and
returned back to whatever city they drove from, no one but her had seen
them anyway, and she probably didn't get the license plate. Even if
these possibilities wouldn't work in their favor, how is raising hell
and hunting down someone to kill them improving your chances to get
away with the original murder?
<|_=00=_|>
Della Myers (Kim Basinger) is an upper-class housewife that lives in a
private condominium in the suburbs with her twin children and her
abusive husband Kenneth (Craig Sheffer). Della gives all the attention
to the twins, neglecting their house and her appearance and upsetting
Kenneth. On the Christmas Eve, she drives to the local mall in the
night to buy wrapping paper for the gifts, and she does not find any
parking space available. When she sees an old car parked on two spots,
she leaves a message to the owner calling him "selfish jerk". When the
mall closes, Della's car is hold by the driver of the old car and she
is threatened by four punks  Chuckie (Lukas Haas), the Afro-American
Huey (Jamie Starr), the Chinese-American Vingh (Leonard Wu) and the
Latin Tomás (Luis Chávez). When the security guard of the mall protects
her, he is shot on the head by Chuckie, Della speeds up her car trying
to escape from the criminals. However she crashes her truck nearby a
forest while chased by the gang. She takes the toolbox and hides in the
wood, fighting against the gang to survive.

A couple of days ago, I saw the trailer of "While She Was Out" and I
was anxious to watch the DVD. Unfortunately the trailer is better than
the movie, and I am totally disappointed with this dull and implausible
collection of clichés. Della Myers is presented as an insecure and
neglectful housewife and inexistent as wife; the motherhood is her only
interest in her concept of family. She is chased by four mean criminals
but she defeats them with a toolbox that seems to be the Batman's
utility belt. Therefore, the plot is so absurd that irritates. The gang
of criminals is formed by the favorite cliché of American movies, with
an Afro-American, a Chinese-American and a Latin together with an
American lord to be politically correct. Kim Basinger has a decent
acting, but their children are too young for a fifty-five year-old
woman. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "Enquanto Ela Está Fora" ("While She Was Out")
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my god. the idea that this movie is a thriller is an absolute joke
to me. besides the point that it seems to be written by a 5 year old.
the plot, the acting and even the props and filming of this movie were
all beyond disgrace.

I am not usually this critical about any movie, cause every person has
his/her style. But this movie, however, was probably the worst movie i
have seen in 2008. I can honestly believe that this movie is unknown,
and i think it should stay like this, for movies like these are making
the thriller genre a joke.

I advise anyone that is a fan of thriller movies, or even simply movies
to stay far away from this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Words can't describe how utterly stupid this story (and therefore bad
this movie) is! Basinger, Del Toro ... what were you thinking ?? So
there's a mall and its parking space is totally full. Basinger's
character goes in to buy a cup of tea and some packaging paper.

When she comes out, the whole place is so empty, that nobody hears two
gunshots fired nearby ?? Even though she lives there, when she drives
away from the baddies, she goes to the most remote and godforsaken
place possible instead of the nearest police station or at least a
crowded place ?? COME ON !!! I won't even go into the infamous red
toolbox, since other people have done that before. Let alone how she
kills the moronic thugs one by one.

This is so stupid, without the least bit of logic, I can only warn you
watching it, it's a TOTAL waste of time, honestly !!
<|_=00=_|>
My, how the mighty have fallen. Kim Basinger is a great actress but she
was definitely slumming when she took this role. This movie is bad for
one reason in particular: lapses in logic. Its looks like one of those
movies that would have been passable with all its plot holes if it had
came out in the 80s and 90s but in 2008 it just looks real stupid. This
is the worst thriller I've ever seen and I've seen The Bone Collector
and Twisted.

The story details Della(Kim Basinger)is just getting from buying gifts
in a mall an is harassed by a gang of thugs that end up killing a cop
that came to her aid. From then on she is chased by these idiotic goons
through an abandoned street and she gets rid of them one by one with a
toolbox full of tools.

So many things are wrong with this movie. As I said this movie leaps
over logic at every turn and with the exception of Kim Basinger, the
acting is made-for-TV bad. Hell, this pseudo thriller is made-for-TV
bad. The way she kills each of these politically correct thugs(1
Caucasian, 1 Hispanic, 1 Asian and 1 African American all coming
together to stalk a Caucasian woman. Don't you just love America?)is
laughable to a fault. The way she killed the Hispanic guy made me laugh
hysterically. The sex scene with the main hoodlum was so out in left
field that it make you shake your head in shame. I only recommend this
to lovers of bad films and no one else. Anybody else especially Kim
Basinger fans would do well not to own this flick. You don't want see
an actress you respect in a film this bad now do you? Of course not.
You were warned.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, let me start off by saying how utterly HILARIOUS this film is, I
simply couldn't keep myself from laughing at the sheer stupidity of it.
Don't get me wrong, it IS well acted particularly by Bassinger but the
script is just, well the mind boggles truly.

The premise is good and up until Della actually witnesses the murder it
is engaging but after that it just goes downhill . Half way through the
film the protagonist pulls out her toolbox and of course instead of
lobbing it at the guy's head, she decides to pull out a screwdriver,
car jack and finally a flare (as in for a sinking ship) respectively to
kill her victims.

Then there is the final line that I promise, if it doesn't have you in
stitches then I will eat my own left foot.

I would recommend this film to those who simply want to laugh at some
good old fashioned, appalling film making. Might I also suggest you
watch out for the scene in the scrap yard with the guy falling from the
one foot high plank of wood, gets me every time.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry, but aside from Kim Basinger doing a good job acting scared, this
was one of the worst thrillers I've seen in awhile. Logic is thrown out
as 4 young guys terrorize this woman outside a crowded mall then shoot
a security guard. Yet no one seems to notice. Then, instead of
screaming for help or racing back to the mall, she drives off and ends
up in the middle of the woods with the guys in hot pursuit. I can't
even describe how silly it is seeing this woman fleeing from 4 retarded
thugs, carrying a red toolbox, screaming for God to come help her, and
then having sex with one of them after brutally killing the others.
Please trust me, this is bad and a bit tasteless as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though many people here praises this movie, I have to warn you. It
has no logic whatsoever. I think that Basinger does a decent job at
acting, but you can't make a thriller if there is a great lack of
realism.

This scene paints a good picture for you of the movie : while Basinger
is pursued by murderous thugs she decides to sit down and gaze upon a
picture she finds from her pocket. The picture is from her daughter and
it reads "we love you mommy". Who does something like that ? What the
eff? And believe me when I say that it is not nearly as stupid as some
other scenes of the movie. Someone stated that this is a "hidden gem".
Well, I have to strongly disagree, this movie has stayed hidden for a
reason. And it's not a gem. Oh, and please, I don't even want to start
commenting about the red toolbox. It hurts my brain :D Usually the lack
of logic does not bother me if it is in small amounts, but this movie
basically is made possible only because of the lack of logic. But, i
still give it a 4 because even though it is embarrassingly flawed in
logic, it has certain mood that kept me watching till the end.

So if you choose to watch this, you know you have been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
Who in their right mind does anything so stupid as this movie?

Accidental killing of a security guard... characters that are so two
dimensional that a two year old could have painted drawn them... and
better...

A red toolbox of death? Please....

Hypothermic weak thugs...

Acting from hell...

Stylistically this movie shifts between teen comedy, thriller,
voyeurism and... female ... (uhm) Rambo?

Unbelievable and it's an insult to any thinking person. Do not watch,
walk away it's more horrible than you may imagine...

And on top of it all it's trying to be hip by being overly graphic in
it's violence...

Mrs Montford: Shoot 'Em Up was fun and funny, this is just pathetic and
terrible. Good luck next time. :-(
<|_=00=_|>
Overall this movie is dreadful, and should have never been made. One of
the problems with this movie is that there is no link to the audience
and the characters, for example, if she is about to be attacked, you
want to feel, "Oh My God, No!", but you don't in this case, you don't
care because there is no link that has been made to know the character.
In the trailer, it seemed as though the movie would be great, yet there
is no suspense what so ever really. There could have been maybe some
mystery but there is not. "All she has is a toolbox." was said on the
DVD's back, you would think that it was carefully planned this movie,
and cleverly made, but it is not, The ending, was just awful, very
straight forward, and pointless too. The acting is either average or
below average, maybe even lower. In my opinion it was a waste of an
hour of my life. The "Special Effects" and sets were average too,
nothing special what so ever. There is not much gore, or bloody
violence, not much blood is shown. This movie was advertised to make it
sound quite amazing, yet really, its not even worth looking for, I do
not recommend this to anyone, unless they are easily satisfied, by a
few fights and a boring story.
