
As we settled into our seats in Screen One in the Savoy Cinema, Dublin,
Ireland, we wondered how on earth Stuart Townsend could exposit the
intricate workings of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to an audience
who probably had no idea that it even existed.

We were not disappointed. From the breathtaking opening sequence, to
the exhilarating ending, we were on the edge of our seats.

There were some outstanding performances  André Benjamin as Django
(from the band Outkast) and Michelle Rodriguez as Lou (best-known in
Europe for the TV series 'Lost') in particular were superb as two of
the demonstrators. André injected an unfailing sense of humor and light
relief into this serious topic, and managed to turn his unusual
headgear into a clever statement about endangered species. Michelle
gave her character exceptional depth and feeling, and handled a
complicated emotional sub-plot with a mixture of both detachment and
passion that worked so well on screen.

Charlize Theron played an innocent bystander, Ella, who was trapped in
the violent maelstrom, with horrific consequences for both her own
character and her character's husband.

During the Q&A with Stuart and Charlize at the end of the movie, an
audience member stood up  an employee of the World Bank. She began by
saying how cautious she was about coming to a movie about the WTO, but
that she had to applaud Stuart for handing such a difficult subject so
fairly. Her comments were echoed by a Trade Advocacy officer from a
well-known Irish development charity, who congratulated him on creating
a movie which managed to be both factually accurate and entertaining.

For anyone who has ever wished that this world was a better place, this
movie is a must-see. For everyone else, this is a heart-warming movie
about the power of the human spirit to overcome, to work together and
to forgive.

(And as a footnote, Stuart gave free passes to the screening to
protesters from the Campaign to Save Tara, who are still demonstrating
against the construction of a new highway, the M3, in the historical
valley at the Hill of Tara in Ireland. Stuart walks his talk.)
<|_=00=_|>
This docu-drama about the WTO riots in Seattle in 1999 is made in the
same style as "Bloody Sunday", "United 93", and "Battle for Haditha":
it just shows events in real time without comment. We follow everyone
here from the ground up; the protest groups, the cops on the street,
their commanders, city officials, a news reporter, and innocent
bystanders. Maybe the scenes with the news reporter are the least
fleshed out, but that's a fairly minor complaint for a movie that is
very involving and entertaining and thought-provoking. Woody Harrelson
and Charlize Theron are very good, as usual, and Michelle Rodriguez is
perfectly cast. One of the big surprises here is Andre Benjamin, from
Outkast fame, who delivers a fine supporting performance; he's
irreverent but very smart. Ray Liotta is very effective as the mayor,
and the film does a great job of seeing the complexities in elected
officials as he struggles to please all sides; he is looking for the
protesters to behave while also wanting the WTO to address important
issues.

The audience I saw this with at the Toronto Festival gave it an ovation
that lasted all through the credits. In terms of pure audience
satisfaction, this movie was up there with "Juno" and "Body of War" and
"Eastern Promises" as the fan favorites.
<|_=00=_|>
I just came back from watching the film at the Toronto International
film festival, and I absolutely loved it. It is brilliantly made and
brilliantly acted. Stuart Townsend is a very talented man; he is sure
to win a few Oscars before the end of his career. Battle in Seattle is
a great work which simply tells the story of the WTO riots in Seattle,
without an obvious bias (at least in my opinion). The film also uses
real footage during some parts which really help those who were not
present during the riots see that the film isn't exaggerating how
horrific people's actions were (on both sides). I highly recommend this
film for anyone who loves films that entertain and teach.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see this film in advance, and it opened my eyes
to a few very important issues.

Going in, I'd never even heard of the "battle in Seattle," as I was
only 13 years old at the time of the protests. But now that I'm aware
of the event, it makes me wonder why the controversies with the WTO
aren't still being discussed on a larger scale.

This is something that we should all be concerned about, and Stuart
Townsend has done us a favor by introducing the issues in a format that
is riveting, informative, and inspirational. If there's one thing
Battle in Seattle does best, it's that it fires you up to take action
any way you can.

Not to mention the great production values, absolutely stellar cast,
and intense action sequences (Intense because they're real! Actual
footage was used).

I would highly recommend attending a showing of this film with your
family and friends, because these matters are important to us all, and
Stuart's presentation of them is nothing short of breathtaking.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this film at the Dublin Film Festival this morning - packed
screening at the Savoy. Stuart Townsend and Charlize Theron answered
questions after wards - he was really nervous in front of a Dublin
crowd. He said they filmed only two days in Seattle for budgetary
reasons - the rest was in Vancouver. Good film though and he clearly
did his research. I thought this was much better than Bobby, which had
a similar ensemble cast and multiple viewpoints. Also, it didn't stick
its politics down your throat and all sides got a relatively fair
portrayal. The audience gave it a long ovation, and I see it got a good
response at the Toronto festival - in my opinion it deserved it.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew very little about this subject before watching the film... I
expected to learn a little about it during the film and that was my
primary reason for attending the screening at the SXSW Film Festival in
Austin. Instead, I was blown away by an incredible story that weaves
the events in Seattle with several inspiring and complex characters. In
an amazing interaction that muddied the waters between the 'good' and
'bad' guys, this script moves you. 

The theater cheered and yelled... an ovation throughout the credits in
Austin as well... this movie is powerful and inspiring. I absolutely
loved the cast as well as the style of film-making. Great work.
<|_=00=_|>
As a member of the Seattle community for nearly 20 years I was here
when the WTO protests happened and I found this movie to be extremely
powerful. I paid close attention to the events as they occurred in
1999; I even took part in one of the later protests outside a King
County Courthouse/Jail. This film uses fictional characters to give
perspective on the events both for legal and entertainment reasons and
the result is amazing. I watched this film as part of the opening night
celebration for the Seattle International Film Festival with nearly
3000 other Seattle area residents and the response was simply
astounding. Afterwards in both the Q&A session with the director and
part of the cast and the party following, I had the opportunity to hear
from some others who were involved in the WTO incidents and no one
voiced any disappointment with the way the film handled the issues. I
would encourage everyone to see this film as soon as possible; American
release is scheduled for September 2008 and I'm sure international
release dates will be around the same time.
<|_=00=_|>
"Labour itself is but a sorrowful song, The protest of the weak against
the strong."

Frederick William Faber

As a liberal, I empathize with the protesters in the 1999 World Trade
Organization meeting in Seattle. And I do empathize. The need for world
organizations and big companies to consider the health of poorer
countries before appropriating their resources is paramount.

In Battle in Seattle, director Stuart Townsend uses the stock devices
of the docudrama: smoothly inter-cutting between scenes of police and
protesters and expertly interspersing authentic footage with the
dramatized. The feel is as if the audience is participant; the dilemma
of how far either side should go in keeping the peace or disturbing it
is palpable.

The drama is enhanced by fictionalizing the opposing forces through the
lens of policeman Dale (Woody Harrelson) and his wife, Ella (Charlize
Theron), both caught up in the escalating violence and too neatly tied
to the issues of each side. The challenges of the protesters are also
too deftly tied to a romance of the leader and a follower. 

This facile mixing of truth and fiction leaves me a bit cold, as if I
were the victim of a fraud because the reality of the historic event
seems trivialized by clichéd romances and tragedies. I am always
dismayed by the Michael-Moore-style loading of the left to the
exclusion of the right's point of view: What are the purposes of the
WTO? Has it been successful? How? These questions are rarely explored
any more than the complicated motives and lives of the protesters.

But the docudrama succeeds in illuminating the WTO and its critics. As
history has written, little progress has been made during the
intervening decade even though the talks were stopped in Seattle. But
as one of the combatants points out, only by small steps and
persistence can the battle be won. And so went the Battle in Seattle.
<|_=00=_|>
There are many that will dismiss this film as boring, lame or whatever
and I myself was a bit dubious as a Seattle native and somebody that
worked downtown during the riots. However, after seeing "Battle in
Seattle" last night in Los Angeles, I must say that I really enjoyed
it. Working within the reality of the film business (the need of star
power, dramatization, distribution and financing) I thought Stuart
Townsend did a great job of telling a fictional story about people
within the historical context of the WTO Seattle Ministerial. He was
also able to connect the film to what is happening today through some
factual statements in the prologue and epilogue that reminded the
audience that the WTO is still a presence in everybody's lives (whether
they know it or not). The film's website also exists to educate viewers
on the WTO. There were a lot of subtle details that I remember from
that week that he included that I was able to appreciate (especially
the Pine/Broadway riot which I was an observer of from the Bauahus Cafe
on Pine). Stuart Townsend, Charlize Theron and Martin Henderson were
also at the screening and talked for about 30 minutes about the film. 

Stuart said that he was not trying to make a documentary about the WTO
(since three already existed, one of which I've already seen ("30
Frames a Second: The WTO in Seattle") and wanted to make a film about
people. Overall, I think he did a great job. The only minor, personal
beef I had was the casting of Tzi Ma as Governor Locke. Locke does not
speak with any trace of an accent and hearing Ma ranting on screen with
a slight accent was just weird for me (being very familiar with Gary
Locke...but nobody else will even bat an eye). A lot of people
complained that the entire film wasn't filmed in Seattle, but that was
the reality of financing. He mentioned that if he had to film in
Vancouver to get the film made, so be it. Most of the key
scenes/landmarks were shot in Seattle so you never really lost track of
the Seattle vibe (believe me, I recognized every landmark on screen).
Stuart mentioned that he learned a lot about the film making industry
(from the point of a first time director) and how brutal it can be.

The WTO is obviously a topic most of Hollywood would not touch with a
10 foot pole. He also said that of the six or so years he spent on the
project, only 29 days were actual filming days with the rest spent on
research, production, editing etc. I have to give a lot of credit to
Stuart for tackling this topic and seeing it to completion and fighting
for distribution. It would be the equivalent of me trying to make a
film around the Inniskillin Bombing which I do not remember when it
happened back in 1987, but have heard of. I was able to shake Stuart's
hand afterward and he was a very cool guy and tried to talk to
everybody even as his publicist tried to drag him away after the
screening.
<|_=00=_|>
I was at the battle in seattle...all 4 days of it....they cant get the
days or times right....the gassing didn't start till after 5 pm in the
afternoon on N30 not during lunchtime, we didn't march on the jail till
December 3rd not December 2nd, and the Broadway and Pine Riots or as we
locals call it the city sanctioned gay bashing wasn't started because
of a cop flipping out but rather when a few people started shaking the
police car with a cop in it...they don't bring up the fact that in the
mornings people came downtown with coffee for police and brooms to
clean up the mess...they don't talk about the peaceful protest that
stayed on the sidewalk in response to said Broadway riots...and they
didn't talk about how people were boxed in at 2 am when bars close
infront of 3 packed bars. for a movie yeah its a good watch but for a
look at the Battle In Seattle they could have done better in getting
their facts right
