
This horrifying documentary won the Oscar for 2007. Using the case of
an innocent Afghan taxi driver who were tortured to death by American
interrogators in Bagram prison as the starting point, the film
chronicles the atrocities committed by the Bush administration in the
name of American people and an ill-defined 'war on terror'.

The film is written, directed and narrated by Alex Gibney, son of a
high-ranking naval officer who was an interrogator in World War II. A
great American and a true patriot, Frank Gibney's final disappointment
of what became of the great nation of the United States in the hands of
a few liars is heart-wrenching.

There is not a single frame in the film that is not supported by hard
evidence. All of the investigation was conducted by Americans whose
credentials of decency and patriotism are above suspicion. The film is
a chronicle of how paranoia, self-serving deceit and mere stupidity can
threaten the very values a great nation was built on. It should be
impossible for anyone who watches this meticulous document to ever
criticize the veracity of claims put forward by the recent films,
Rendition, In the Valley of Elah, or Redacted - flawed as films though
that they were. 

Every person in the world, especially every American, that cares about
the true nature of freedom and the sanctity of the individual (the
basic tenets on which America was built) should see this film. How
could anyone claim that it would be loved only by the supporters of
Taliban is beyond me.
<|_=00=_|>
In 2002 taxi driver Dilawar was picked up by US forces with his
passengers in the desert and taken to Bagram prison in Afghanistan.
Five days later he was dead. Injuries to his legs were compared with
those he would have sustained if he had been run over by a truck  had
he lived it was likely that his legs would have had to have been
amputated due to the damage. With this as the starting point, this
documentary tells the story of the role of "torture" in the war on
terror, from Abu Ghraid to Guantanamo.

Having put Gibney's documentary on Enron as one of my ten favourite
films of 2005, I eagerly took up the opportunity the UK (and much of
Europe) had to catch this on television ahead of the full release in
the US in 2008. Shown as part of the BBC's excellent "Why Democracy"
series of films, this one opened with the caption question "can
terrorism destroy democracy?". To the casual listener the question
appears to be about the ability of terrorists to bring down what we see
as Government (ie by crashing planes into it) but really the question
in regards this film appears to be more about whether our idea of
freedom and democracy can survive the way we fight terrorism. As a
result this film is about the use of "torture" against terrorist
suspects, specifically focusing on the United States.

The reader may be wondering why the focus (in the title) on Dilawar.
Well I did too because he died in Bagram and his story sadly ends
there, while the vast majority of the film focuses on the infamous
examples of torture and inhumane treatment in the other places. Well it
turns out that Dilawar is a device and one that the film uses very
well. The morality of the use of torture is not black and white and of
course the usual "ticking time bomb" scenario is thrown up; the film
does counter this by suggesting that the weekly scenarios in Fox's 24
are not the norm (to say the least) but the best answer to most of the
moral questions are simply to refer back to a taxi driver who died
after five days in captivity with horrific injuries  the film doesn't
say he was innocent but it doesn't need to  nobody suggests he was
evil or a key player either, but yet he is dead. This hangs over the
film even though he is not the focus after the first twenty minutes.

What the film does from then on in is paint a picture of lack of
respect for humanity, lack of respect for international laws, lack of
accountability and lack of transparency. The film plays a clip of
Rumsfeld speaking on the (then) allegations of mistreatment and says
that it will be looked into so that "the world will see how a free
system, a democratic system, functions and operates"; well he was right
 and it is not pretty viewing. As with Enron, Gibney does betray his
politics and the film has very little in the way of even handedness
about the debate. This is a little disappointing in regards the debate
but the overwhelming nature of the presentation of arrogance and
carelessness did make wonder how you would balance these issues 
certainly the quotes I have heard down the years from politicians have
not been able to convince. Certainly a clip of Bush talking about
"suspected terrorists" who have died, or as he says "put it this way 
they're no longer a problem to the United States"; the fact that he
acknowledges they are "suspects" rather than convicts but yet sees
their death as a good thing says it all.

Considering this issue is everywhere in the media, Gibney does very
well to structure his film to build it from the ground up. Not only
does he use the words of the Bush administration against them ("the
only thing I know for certain is that these are bad people") but he
also details the wider political picture beyond the blame that was
dumped onto Lynndie England, Charles Graner and others. He does this
very well, bringing in the input of John Yoo and the terribly smarmy
Alberto Gonzales. Even after the photographs in the paper, seeing the
unedited video and hearing firsthand accounts from both sides is
shocking and disturbing affair  again, how would you set out to
"balance" these? Beyond the issue of torture I found the lack of
accountability and ownership to be just as shocking as privates are
floated down the river while those in charge never face worse than
early retirement. The biggest challenge with this material is to keep
it as a valid piece of work even as the topic grows daily and that many
will be tired of hearing about it  just this last week or so we have
seen more debate and also the CIA deleting old tapes of interrogations
(tapes that Bush has "no recollection" of existing); however Gibney
brings the film to a close well, making it feel like something that can
stand still and still work  the personal touch of his late father's
comments at the end (himself a WWII Navy interrogator) talking about
how "we" should be different than "them", making for a suitable summing
up of why the film is important.

Another strong documentary from Gibney despite the lack of balance and
the challenges with the topic. It deserves to be seen by a bigger
audience than it has been, even if it won't make the difference it
should do. Depressing to think that, decades from now people will look
back on this and wonder how on earth we allowed our leaders to do this
in our names and let them get away with it.
<|_=00=_|>
Yep, it is another one of those Iraq and Afghanistan documentaries. I
know the burnout rate is high on these, which is probably why I almost
did not bother, but nothing else was showing. Man, was I happy I saw
this! It has rekindled my hate for the Bush administration, which had
turned to apathy over the last year. This tells the story of an Afghani
taxi driver that is mistakenly picked up as a Taliban supporter, but
before they find out he was innocent, he has been beaten to death by
his American torturers.

This film has interviews from all of the guards that were responsible,
JAG officers, FBI people, CIA agents on the ground etc. And you see
that all of the blame lies with Ashcroft and the Bushies, who gave one
vague order after another that they wanted confessions and they wanted
them quickly, with a wink and a nod about what kind of methods to use.
So you have these frustrated high school drop-outs presiding over these
people thousands of miles from anywhere, and they won't confess. So,
beatings and humiliations follow. And when the crap comes out, the Bush
administration passes a bill that absolves all higher-ups from any
responsibility and they start to bust the enlisted men and women, who
were following orders. Pathetic. Of course, we also find out that over
95% of the prisoners being held, were captured by Pakistanis and
Northern Alliance people, WHO were paid by the US government for each
person they turned over, guilty or not guilty. And you wonder why
meaningful confessions were so hard to come by. It reminds me of the
scene from Full Metal Jacket, where the psycho army guy shoots the
Vietnamese farmers from his helicopter. He says the ones that run are
VC, the ones that don't run are well trained VC. Very tragic.
<|_=00=_|>
Much like the director's Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room, the
subject of Taxi to the Dark Side carries the dual burdens of public
burnout and simultaneous public smugness. We're tired of hearing of
prisoner abuse, and moreover, we think we know all there is to know
about it anyway.

I wouldn't have guessed that I could be affected by unedited imagery
from Abu Gahrib but as it turns out, it's 24 hours since I saw TTTDS
and I can't shake the images from my head. Many will want to hide their
eyes from what our own tax dollars hath wrought, and perhaps some will
be right to do so. This is a brutal, agonizing, blistering and
exhausting journey that doesn't pull any punches. No digital scrambling
or government double-speak to hide the unpleasant parts - just pure
evil.

The screening audience was active with conversation when the lights
came up and one was heard to say that this was a truer documentary than
any created by Michael Moore. I don't know what that means, but without
a doubt no documentary I have ever seen has gotten under my skin to
such a degree. What makes it brilliant is that it captures,
simultaneously, the evil that men (and women) do AND the faith that we
all carry for greater human achievement.

A college professor once described "Schindler's List" as the story of
God's grace in a godless place. What's agonizing about TTTDS is that
for much of the film God is nowhere to be found, beyond the desperate
screams of "Allah" as extricated from captives by US Soldiers given no
direction and without a magnetic north in their moral compass.

Those who not only condone but advocate the horrors on display in this
film are all here, in their own words, to justify their leadership with
the talking points we've heard again and again over the past 5 years.
In the context of Bagram and Guantanamo Bay their words take on a
sinister edge I'd not heard before. I can't recommend this film highly
enough, nor can I suggest more strongly that you do not know what
you're in for.
<|_=00=_|>
... at least not on Discovery Channel.

Said director Alex Gibney recently (on DemocracyNow): "Well, it turns
out that the Discovery Channel isn't so interested in discovery. I
mean, I heard that  I was told a little bit before my Academy Award
nomination that they had no intention of airing the film..."

Discovery Channel has bought the exclusive TV rights for the next 3
years, but Gibney hopes they can be persuaded to sell them "for a
profit".

And it is a powerful film. Although it reveals nothing new about the
torture and degrading techniques we've become accustomed to over the
last three years, it puts politician's faces and statements in context
with a "real" victim and a name: young Afghan Taxi driver Dilawar, who
was arrested at a checkpoint for alleged involvement in a rocket
attack. Five days later he died at Bagram, after two days of continuous
beatings, standing up in chains inside his solitary confinement cell.
The American coroner checked "homicide" on his death certificate and
handed it with the body to his family, who couldn't read English.

The film then takes us along the ride from Afghanistan to the present
day. Dilawar was only the beginning, and one of two detainees who died
from torture roughly at the same time. Today, about 180 people have
died in custody, 38 with "homicide" on their death certificates.
Dilawar's torturers tell their story. They took the rap, they repent,
but is this justice? What's the bigger picture, the one that's usually
glossed over, and the reason Discovery deems this documentary
"controversial"?

Alex Gibney dismantles "Torture the American way" just like he did the
Enron scandal in "Enron: The smartest guys in the room", from the
inside to the bigger inside, like a Russian doll. You will hear the
words "war crimes", see the infamous torture memo, Abu Ghraib photos
and film, Kiefer Sutherland torturing with electric wires, Guantanamo,
Cheney, Rumsfield, Bush and their lawyers wriggling around the t-word
and egging on that "we must take our gloves off". "We have to work the
dark side, if you will. We're going to spend time in the shadows", says
Cheney.

"But... is the dark side stronger?" 

"No. Quicker, easier, more seductive. Anger, fear, aggression, the dark
side are they.

"Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your
destiny."
<|_=00=_|>
Taxi to the Dark Side accomplishes what a documentary, or just a
concise analysis, regarding all of the facts in one of the many
nightmares the United States' involvement in the middle east should: to
inspire the utmost disgust and condemnation of a system that has become
as corrupt as it has (or rather always has been with this bunch). It's
uncontainable to think how all of this started, grew exponentially, and
resulted ultimately in the horrors at Abu Gharyb and Guantanamo Bay, in
that it is nestled in the twisted, criminal (yes folks, criminal)
'policies' of the Bush administration. But Alex Gibney's approach isn't
narrow-minded but multi-faceted: he's interested in what a complex,
ugly organism torture has become, the psychological just as much as the
physical, and he has a man at the center of it. Dilawar, an innocent
taxi driver from a poor farm in Afghanistan, was swept up by three
other Afghan soldiers and sent to Bagram prison, where along with other
supposed terrorists or terrorist collaborators was tortured (in his
case especially in brutal fashion, as we learn in graphic description
from those who participated first-hand), and died from the trauma.

His death was a controversy, but not one that ever got the kind of
attention it deserved; until this documentary I never even heard of
Dilawar or even much about Bagram prison. Yet it was at this prison, as
well as the first biggie interrogation of the would-be 20th hijacker of
the plane on 9/11 to crash in Pennsylvania (which, by false confession,
led to an over-excited but false-rooted assumption that Al Quaeda had
links to Baghdad), that led to Abu Gharyb, which revealed the horrors
of soldiers in unyielding terror over their subjects but, more
importantly, the virus that spread through the chain of command.
Gibney's approach is approximate and expertly probing: it's not enough
to just focus of Dilawar (even as his story could make up a whole
legitimate documentary alone), or on Abu Gharyb. As in his previous
film, Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room, it's essential to dissect
this wretched beast from top to bottom, to see not simply the soldiers
first-hand accounts, but straight from the horse's mouth the words from
Cheney, Rumsfeld, Powell, and Bush himself.

Because, in reality, there is something to feel sorry for with these
soldiers. It can be argued, and not without just cause, that what the
soldiers did at Bagram, Abu Gharyb, and to an extent even at GITMO, was
wrong and rotten and they could have said no and so on and so forth.
However, as with the ground war situation in Iraq, it's all about the
chain of command, and the fact that no matter what the parties
initially responsible are not held accountable for any of their
actions. It's almost frightening to forget the amount of footage
available with these men like Rumsfeld and Gonzalez and Cheney where
they not only admit to being fine with torture tactics - and whether or
not it's psychological torture or not is besides the point as ALL
torture IS torture, albeit a facet that Gibney brilliantly chronicles
in the history of the CIA to its 'logical' extension in recent years -
but set it up in legal wrangling so as to not get it any trouble for
what they've done which is, of course, breaking Geneva conventions and
whatnot.

If I sound like I'm sounding bias with this, then you should leave this
review right now. There is no bias when it comes to this issue (or
rather there SHOULD be no bias, as for a split second McCain showed
until he relented recently that torture isn't as bad as he used to
think). What one sees as the line between what is proper interrogation
of a subject and outright abuse to get that "ticking time-bomb" is
revealed by Kloogman from the FBI, who paraphrases how an interrogation
would usually be done and lays it on the line that this form has
actually had results - not pain and death or, at best, a bull**** court
at GITMO where it's like a joke Kafka wouldn't write. Gibney presents
all the information with the bluntness that's required, with testimony,
footage from press conferences and commissions (i.e. that
cringe-inducing bit with Gonzalez where he has a horrible pause when
trying to answer a simple question about whether or not to condone
torture), and it's presented lucidly, edited for a cumulative effect
and with the skill of a filmmaker in total trust with his subject(s) to
take all of the pieces into a whole that shakes one to the core.

And all of this would be powerful enough to make an impact, but with
the recent explosion of news coverage on water-boarding - and that the
CIA has admitted to torturing three subjects - Taxi to the Dark Side
remains startlingly relevant. In fact, it's even more tragically
relevant than last year's Sicko or even No End in Sight. From the
tragedy of Dilawar to the tragedy of Abu Gharyb, which was like Salo
turned into as shockingly real as could never be imaginable, the Bush
administration has put the US into even more danger than ever before by
resorting to the lowest form of humanity, condoning acts to the
soldiers that sixty years ago would never be committed in the harshest
of circumstances on our side. This, again, isn't some silly bias, this
is just fact. It's enough to make one sick to one's stomach, and as
long as a film such as this exists, the pain can't be brushed aside or
dulled by diverting network news.
<|_=00=_|>
There is something you need to know about this film: it is not about
real insurgents or terrorists or about real soldiers, and it is
certainly not an anti-American film.

It is about how senior military and civilian officials demand results
from their subordinates, even if the results are to be obtained by
unconscionable, immoral, and illegal means, up to, and including,
torture and murder. The fact that many of these results - what the
military like to call "the mission" - are faked or just wrong is of no
particular concern to them. Naturally, you'll never find a document
signed by any of those officials advocating torture and murder. The
most you'll ever find is a reference to "enhanced interrogation
techniques" (i.e., torture). And if a detainee dies, the senior
officers and officials always benefit from "plausible deniability" and
claim that it must be the fault of junior "bad apple" troops. If
terrorists are murderers, some of our own troops have certainly engaged
in murder, too. To reveal this is not anti-American; it's just a simple
fact. Because the troops often do it in a group they think they're not
murderers. Just as, I imagine, someone who participates in gang rape
does not consider himself, individually, to be a rapist. 

While most Military Police (MP) troops are fighting hard on the ground
every day in Iraq and Afghanistan, one group of troops which this film
examines are those Military Police who are used as prison guards. The
other troops examined in the film are some military intelligence ("MI")
troops employed as interrogators in prison camps.

If you don't know already, Military Police are usually despised by
their own troops. If you give a soldier special power over his fellow
soldiers he will often abuse it. I still recall an Australian friend of
mine mentioning that many of the Aussie "Red Hats" (MPs) who sailed for
home after WWII never made it back; their fellow troops threw them
overboard.

The old saw about military intelligence being a contradiction in terms
is never more apparent than in the case of interrogators. When you hear
the word intelligence here you must forget all about spies, codes, and
the stuff of James Bond novels. The interrogators of MI are an example
of soldiers who are ill prepared, in general, to carry out work that
would normally take years to master. They are mostly low-ranking
enlisted men and women, privates and sergeants, almost none of whom
speak with any proficiency the language of the detainees they're
interrogating.

So, imagine the scenario: senior officials demanding intelligence, no
matter how it's obtained; unqualified interrogators using whatever
means they can think of to satisfy their superiors' demands; and MP
prison guards who have the power of life and death over their
detainees, with almost no restrictions on what they can do to them.
Behind all this is the unwritten understanding that if something goes
wrong, the troops will probably not be prosecuted. God help the
innocent person swept up into this sadistic, bureaucratic system. But
as we all know, if you've been arrested, you must be guilty. Right? 

The elephant in the closet in all this is the Central Intelligence
Agency, an organization that regards itself as above law, morality, and
civilized behavior. It gets away with much of what it does by having
the military, foreigners, and contractors to do its dirty work for it.
And when somebody has to take a fall, well, that's what privates and
sergeants are for. If your kids are MPs, interrogators, or just in the
military, advise them always to watch their backs around those people.

This may be a disturbing film for civilians, but it won't include many
surprises if you've served in the armed forces, or on a police force,
or in a prison. Those are the people who know about this, but they're
not about to tell you. No wander the USA has pulled out of the War
Crimes Treaty. But what officials do not want to admit, even to
themselves, is that war crimes are war crimes, no matter if you're a
treaty signatory or not.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a worthy attempt to bring what has become a familiar
subject throughout the Bush years without necessarily giving the other
side an opportunity to state their case. While I personally support
what the film is saying about questionable, even criminal policies of
the Bush Administration's view on "interrogation" as a betrayal of all
this country holds dear, the film leaves itself open to attack which is
unfortunate. Tidbits are cherry picked from interviews and
Congressional testimony, and while it's understandable that major
players didn't want to sit down and give an interview, it's glaring
that they aren't given an chance to explain why they've said what they
said. I'll acknowledge the filmmaker probably has it right, but
nevertheless, it's an unfair tactic.

The chief first hand accounts of information are from U.S. Military
personnel who have been convicted of crimes (with the exception of one
British national who has a harrowing, convincing story to tell). While
what they have to say is compelling, the absence of any testimony of
those who gave them those orders is absent. We have their attorneys or
third parties removed to interpret what happened...or might have
happened. While I couldn't be more sympathetic to the bind we've placed
our young men and women in, the last thing I wanted to hear from an
individual who's been convicted of torture and "wrongful death"
(labeled a homicide by the coroner) is "I'm financially ruined." The
moral quandary raised by the film isn't nearly answered until the final
credits roll.

And where is Congress? Where is the oversight they are obligated to
perform? Oh, they're holding hearings on steroid use in baseball.

We're never sure exactly what we're looking at. "Reenactments" are
identified briefly, but clearly there is a lot that isn't documentary
footage, and the famous photos of Abu Ghrabib reappear over and over
frequently out of context. 

This is a shameful chapter in American history, and it needs a less
doctrinaire film to expose what are, as pointed out, crimes of war. One
of the most effective moments is when the filmmaker's father appears
over the closing credits. He is a former interrogator in WWII. His
outrage rings true, and it should be every American's cry as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Too few have heard of Dilawar. Those who have will probably never
forget him. Alex Gibney certainly will not. His latest film starts and
ends with this poor innocent taxi driver who, in 2002, was taken to the
Bagram airbase in Afghanistan. Five days later, he was dead.

Dilawar's death was the spark which ultimately led to the international
awareness of what the Bush administration was doing to its detainees in
the war on terror. Gibney's film, however, decides to look up the tree,
not down, to discover who was really responsible for these unpleasant
developments.

Gibney's film is bolstered by frank and interesting interviews with
some of the troops on the ground. Their remorse is clear, as is their
disgust. And disgust is the right word. This is, by no means, an easy
watch. The use of the appalling footage which has been generated by the
recent conflicts is necessary because, if anyone is in any doubt about
how morally reprehensible these tactics are, this film will make it
abundantly clear.

However, this film's real strength is the structure of its attack on
the tactics that are employed. Gibney demonstrates that the tactics
used are hopelessly inadequate and never yield effective information.
There is a cutting and brilliant comparison with the old techniques and
the new where an interviewee, a former FBI interrogator, uses his old
tools of interrogation  words  and you can feel yourself being
persuaded.

This is not just a polemic. It is a human story and a powerful and
well-constructed argument. It should be essential viewing as what has
happened at Guantanamo, Bagram and Abu Ghraib should never be
forgotten. This is excellent, important film-making.

4 Stars out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Taxi to the Dark Side doesn't contain anything wholly new, just more
complete detail and important clarifications, such as the fact that
Guantanamo uses very much the same basic methods to Abu Ghraib, though
the location is cleaner and of course was not formerly used by Saddam
Hussein. Dilawar, the Afghan taxi driver, was essentially beaten to
death by American soldiers in the Bagram prison. He did not live long
once his ill-trained but plainly-directed captors got hold of him, but
his final hours were terrifying and horrible. They kicked his legs till
they turned to pulp and would have had to be amputated, had he lived. A
heart condition caused an embolism that went to his brain and was the
cause of death, which on the official US papers given to Dilawar's
family, in English so they did not know what they meant, was
"homicide," but the officer in charge of the prison denied this when
queried. Gibney, who was responsible previously for the documentary
Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room, presents interviews with some of
the American soldiers responsible for Dilawar's death. They were, of
course, only following orders. Other talking heads clarify the fact
that the "gloves are off" policy by US authorities following 9/11/01
goes back to Cheney, approved by Bush, carried out with gusto by
Rumsfeld, and sent directly down the line to the low-ranking and
inexperienced people whose behavior after the Abu Ghraib scandal
emerged was claimed by authorities to be that of people on the "night
shift" or "a few bad apples." This film thoroughly disproves that
claim.

Gibney shows how the US administration has become willing to blatantly
disregard the rule of law, domestic as well as international, to fight
their "war on terror" in ways that involved extreme cruelty and murder.
In doing this they had the assistance of various corrupt or
immoral--or, if you prefer, simply very misguided--men of the law and
the judiciary.

The practices have been illegal. They may also have been variously
unwise. The photos of Americans mistreating Muslim prisoners at Abu
Ghraib are good recruiting material for anti-US terrorists. But torture
also simply doesn't work, accomplishes nothing useful. Much time is
given to Alfred McCoy, author of a book called 'The Question of
Torture' and a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin.
McCoy recounts that the CIA has been working on methods of coercion for
all the decades of its existence, but their experiments have yielded
little except lawsuits from victimized guinea pigs. Another authority,
a former CIA operative, asserts that the best method to obtain
information is to gain the confidence of the prisoner and convince him
you can help him.

But post 9/11 "high value" prisoners were clearly tortured with
anything their captors could think of--and then confessed to anything
they could think of. The film clarifies that psychological experiments
by Donald Hobb at McGill University in the Seventies proved sensory
deprivation is the most effective means of torture; at least according
to Hobb it can induce psychosis within 48 hours. The film shows that
basically all "terrorism" suspects here and abroad have been subjected
to sensory deprivation. That is what covering the ears, head, and hands
does; and it was and is standard treatment to continue this for hours
and days. This is more effective than pain. But effective at doing
what? Breaking down the prisoner, not obtaining reliable information,
or any information, for that matter.

Hence the widely spread US policies are not only harmful, dangerous,
immoral, and illegal, but stupid and, in intelligence-gathering terms,
worthless.

The "extraordinary rendition," waterboarding, sensory deprivation, etc.
don't work in practical terms, but they have a political purpose. They
convince people that the US is "getting tough" on its enemies. But the
US has not been holding real enemies. If it were, the useless prisoners
or wrongly captured would be filtered out, as Dilawar ought to have
been. He was innocent. And now the US authorities are in a bad
position. They cannot acquit even those few Guantanamo prisoners they
are putting up for show trials, because to do so would reveal that they
had been held for six years for no reason. That would look bad.
Varieties of Orwellian terminology have been devised to describe these
prisoners. The film also shows "tours" of Guantanamo and deflates the
claims of the tour guides.

One reason for all this is who's been in charge: a group of draft
dodgers who never served in a war. Senator McCain is shown in the film
as a man who opposes torture for good reason: because he experienced it
during his years in a North Vietnam prison.

Another issue: American has a developed a culture of guilty-as-charged,
of hysterical attacks on imagined enemies. An example: the popular
jingoistic TV program "24," starring Kiefer Sutherland as a CIA agent
who "saves" millions by torturing mad terrorists with ticking bombs in
Times Square. A Dark Side talking head says that there has never been
such a person captured, and suggests that if there were, such a person
would have the commitment to die rather than reveal information about
his plot.

I do not know if torture never gets you information, though the
assertion that insinuating oneself into the confidence of a prisoner is
more effective makes sense. What is clear enough from Gibney's powerful
and disturbing film (which contains many images not for the squeamish)
is that the torture and wrongful imprisonment and lawlessness of the US
as a nation post-9/11 indicate a country that has become very cruel and
very stupid.

Andrew O'Hehir of Salon.com recounts that at a post-screening Q&A when
Gibney was asked what he would like his film to accomplish, he said "I
hope it provokes some rage." "Well," says O'Hehir, "it worked on me."
May it work on everyone who sees it.
