
If you were to take the best parts of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series
(Patriot Games, Clear And Present Danger, Sum of All Fears) and mixed
in the best parts of the only good Rambo film (First Blood) you would
end up with something akin to Shooter. Shooter is a smart, engaging and
all out enjoyable action flick that never pulls its punches and always
surprises you when you least expect it.

Mark Whalberg plays the role of Bob Lee Swagger, a former military
sniper who quit the army following a disastrous mission where his best
friend and spotter is killed when they are left behind. Three years
later he is hired by a Colonel (played with gusto by Danny Glover) to
figure out how a suspected assassin is going to attempt to kill the
President from over a mile away, a shot that few could make. Swagger
figures out how it is going to be done and is asked to supervise
locating the sniper on site. But on the day of the supposed
assassination, Swagger is set up with the assassination attempt that
kills a visiting diplomat. Swagger is then left on the hunt while
trying to prove his innocence.

Shooter twists and turns with an elaborate conspiracy that is very
convincing, though of course the writers wimp out and take the cheap
road of drawing international oil into the plot (can't writers think of
an original plot device?). However, this is hardly a drawback since the
rest of the film is solid as a rock. The film really puts you into the
shoes of a sniper and gives an impressive overview of the mindset that
it takes to be as accurate as someone of the character of Swagger.

The only real distractions in the film would be Elias Koteas, whose
psycho performance is heavy-handed and does not fit the film, and Kate
Mara who has little to do throughout the film but appear upset or in
distress. The film could have done without either characters or their
respective actors. As well, some of the character relations seem forced
at time, particularly in the relationship between Michael Pe√±a's
character of Nick Memphis and his FBI confidante Lourdes, played by
Rhona Mitra. Their almost effortless camaraderie comes off as less than
convincing.

Overall, Shooter certainly delivers as an entertaining thrill-ride that
is certainly not dumbed down in the least. If you want an intelligent
action film with lots of impressive gun play and several elaborate,
thrilling action sequences to boot, Shooter is right up your alley and
will not disappoint. 7.6 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I came into this film with loads of skepticism, but I came out feeling
completely the opposite. Shooter takes you into the life of retired
Marine Scout Sniper Bob Lee Swagger, who retired after a mission went
completely wrong. He is called back to give information as to how
someone would be able to kill the president from over a mile away. He
ends up being framed for the attempted murder of the president, and the
murder of an archbishop of Ethopia, and must prove his innocence, at
any cost.

Mark Wahlberg does a perfect job of portraying a detached veteran who
has no respect for the government, and really brings the character to
you. He is backed up by an outstanding Michael Pena and Danny Glover
who add to the film like no one else could. The only real complaint is
that Kate Mara's character, the widowed wife of Swagger's best friend
seems to only play two emotions, distressed, or hysterical, and it does
get annoying, though she plays the part well. Elias Kosteas did a good
job playing Jack Payne, a borderline psychotic government agent, though
at times his part seems over the top. 

All in all this film blew me away and I couldn't have loved it more.
Anyone who is into action movies of any kind definitely needs to see
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Mark Wahlberg might be the Bruce Willis of the new generation. His
taciturn Bobby Swagger is perfect. The action is basically nonstop and
very gritty. Bobby is a sniper who has retired to the mountains after
being screwed by the government in an event which finds his sidekick
dead. After being set up, he is stone cold killer. Think Jason Bourne
as someone who remembers his past is really p.o.'d about it. The acting
is good all around, with Glover and Beatty as bad guys you love to
hate. Underlying all this a morality tale about what this country and
its government have become. Many situations, of course, stretch the
imagination , but watching a sense of honor prevail, no matter how
briefly, is worth the price of admission. No Oscar nominations here,
but a big bundle of money for the producers will be no surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised in many ways by shooter. #1, I was surprised by the
release. I follow movies and I didn't hear about this title until early
this year. #2, I was amazed by Marks ability to sell me on his acting
skills. #3, By the fact that the most established actors in this title,
Ned and Danny may have given career killing performances. I think Tony
Todd and Stephen Root would have been solid choices, but my guess is
the two poor performances were bought for name recognition.

To me this had Eastwood written all over it. At times I thought I was
watching Line of Fire at others Unforgiven, but in the end it was just
really good entertainment, much like The Bourne movies.

I think it's worth the watch and the story although not new was
presented in a fresh manner. This one will go in my collection when
available. I'm sure it will have a host of deleted scenes and alternate
endings.

Solid film!
<|_=00=_|>
I had the opportunity to catch an advance screening of this film the
other day. Similarities to other projects aside, I was impressed by the
use of some of the newer military technology involved. The film was
both engaging and entertaining, and Mark Wahlberg did a very good job
of portraying the character in all of his idiosyncrasies. It was good
to see Danny Glover again as I have not had the opportunity to see him
in any films of late. His character was not exactly multidimensional
but I would assume that it was what the writing called for, and
certainly different from the one he portrays in the "Lethal Weapon"
series, not much comedy here. Now if I could only get a hold of the
script... Needless to say, my wife and I enjoyed the movie very much
and would definitely recommend to go and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Never mess with someone who can drop you with his gun from miles away.
Snipers somehow has this aura of mystique and sexiness associated with
the motto of "one shot, one kill", as exhibited in movies like Enemy at
the Gates, or memorable war characters such as in Saving Private Ryan.
In Shooter, this gets demystified for a while, hitting home that not
only should one be gifted with the pulling of the trigger from
incredible distance, a sniper is also a master mathematician, having to
compute the trajectory of the round with factors of humidity, wind
direction, angle etc just to hit the target.

Mark Wahlberg stars as Bob Lee Swagger, whom director Antoine Fuqua
makes him literally walk with a swagger in all the silhouetted slow
motion shots. A battle hardened veteran with ghosts from the past
(don't they all), he gets tempted back to assist the authorities in
order to feed his patriotic adrenaline, only to find himself screwed
and framed for a treasonous crime he did not commit. It's cat and mouse
as prey becomes hunter, and tries to exact justice and at the same
time, to try and prove his innocence. Expect the usual guns,
explosions, and plenty of blood and gore.

Shooter plays off like an urban Rambo meeting The Fugitive, only this
time Dr Richard Kimble has biceps the size of melons and fights back
with deadly accuracy from his rifle. He runs from the authorities,
firmly put as the scheming villains involved in shady deals and the
existence of a covert group of greed ala X-Files, one of whom is played
by Danny Glover, in a rare turn of alignment to the dark side. No
self-respecting beefcake wannabe can do without some DIY operation
scene to keep alive, or some montage in gathering and making new
weapons (pipe bombs, napalm anyone?), and half the time I was wondering
about Mark Wahlberg being the quintessential new generation action
hero.

Gone are the days when Hollywood action movie were ruled by the
Stallone-Schwarzenegger- VanDamme trio, and surprisingly there are no
permanent beefcakes who can readily step into and fill the void.
Wahlberg has been slowly inching his way in my opinion, though Marky
Mark's filmography of The Italian Job, the Planet of the Apes remake,
The Perfect Storm and the more recent Four Brothers, do suggest that
more should be done to cement this status, hence Shooter. I can't wait
for his Brazilian Job to hit the screens, though that one plays more
like an Ocean's Eleven rather than the individual
one-man-saves-the-world action hero type. The Departed was a vulgar bit
role, so that doesn't count.

Antoine Fuqua is no stranger to directing action movies, or movies with
the hero caught up against unfair odds. From Training Day to Tears of
the Sun, you can see earlier influences creep their way into Shooter,
making it a little familiar territory visited. There are many sweeping
shots used to try and epic-ize the movie, and set action sequences take
priority, reducing character development to the token time available
between scenes, and sometimes at the expense of plausibility.

The supporting cast was fun to watch, as Michael Pena (World Trade
Center, Crash) almost stole the show with his rookie FBI character
being caught up in the wrong place at the wrong time, and almost
against his training, wishes and protocol, forms and becomes an
important ally for Wahlberg's Swagger. The woman folk however get
relegated to backseat roles, as per the usual Fuqua movies with Eva
Mendes, Keira Knightley and Monica Belluci. Don't expect Kate Mara or
Rhona Mitra to do much. As for the rest, they are your token cardboard
characters, there to chew the scene.

Shooter is an action fan's fodder, and it is nothing more than a guilt
trip watching a cowboy of a hero mopping up the town's scum, exactly in
the way we like to see justice served - without remorse, exacting, and
served extremely cold. A satisfying actioner with the usual thrills and
spills.
<|_=00=_|>
finally, a movie in theaters WORTH seeing!!!! i just saw "Shooter" and
i was thoroughly entertained. the plot kept me intrigued from beginning
to end. mark wahlberg is fantastic... he's like a modern day McGuyver,
but better looking and more sarcastic. his character is cunning and
smart. wahlberg excels in playing characters who are determined to make
an impact. i'm not a huge fan of action movies, but this movie was so
packed with plot that i just kept moving along with it. i bet most of
the naysayers of the film are going to be people who believe every word
their government tells them. yes, this film depicts government
officials in a bad light, but what or who doesn't? i'm sure in reality
it's much worse. don't let political beliefs interfer with seeing this
film... it's a good time no matter what side you are on. the screenplay
was well-written, excluding ONE, minute one-liner about anna nicole
smith marrying for love which was obviously written before her death.
(plus the story takes place in 1997 anyway!!) other than that detail,
viewers should have no complaints with this film. it's intense but not
overbearing. easy to follow but complex. and you'll be impressed with
wahlberg's character... go see for yourself!!
<|_=00=_|>
I was quite skeptical at watching the film, and didn't even get around
to watching it until just last night(5/13/08), well over a year after
it came out. What I saw was a pretty good political analysis as to what
the major cover ups are and the cause of this Imperialist oil war.

Yes, they do sprinkle a big ole plop of conspiracy theory, notably
burying the snipers who did JFK in the desert. The line, "I still have
the shovel" was quite amusing. Yes, the protagonist is a superman with
the penchant for arriving in the nick of time and the ability to kill
everyone. Chuck Norris isn't as bad as this guy.

What I found to be impressive though was that the movie placed the
blame on a consortium of haves. It did not narrowly define exactly who
the enemy is, so much as allow for a broader condemnation of capitalism
and imperialism. The FBI agent sympathetic to the hero even goes so far
as to wear a Che t-shirt.

So, when the aptly named Swagger tells Sarah Fenn, his buddies ex-wife,
that the reason he took on the mission was because he fell for
patriotism, we are given a quick condemnation of the flag waving
jingoism that the US is trying to use to recruit young people for their
imperialist wars. The WMD's are brought up, and are quite resonant in
the context of a system without morality and only haves and have-nots.

I was impressed with the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film, expecting to be let down. However it really did
tick most of the boxes for me. I found it engaging and entertaining all
the way through, for me a film where you want to watch through to the
end because you WANT to watch, not out of a masochistic urge to "find
out what happens". Mark Wahlbergs performance was top notch. Although
there are a few "no chance" moments in the film as there always are
with these type of films, the majority of it was for me within the
realms of possibility. The soundtrack was also excellent and melded
well with the action on screen. Both myself and my Fianc√©e enjoyed this
film greatly. I can't really think of any negatives for this film and
can only recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
It has always been one of the great mistakes of militaries around the
world, to recruit the best young men and train them to kill ruthlessly.
Some become so proficient at their task, as to glean the admiration of
ambitious and callous individuals who will then use these human weapons
for any purpose necessary. For the film student, this scenario is not
new, but has become a repeatable staple for movie directors whenever
they need intrigue, drama and action. The list of films who's name
resembles, " Marksman, Sniper, Assassin, Killer, Agent, Mercenary,
Machanic, Sanction or just plain Liquidator." is as long as your arm.
The only difference here is the title has been shorten to "Shooter." In
this story our hero, Bob Swagger (Mark Wahlberg) is an Ex-Iraq era
Marine sniper, now retired and reputed to be the very best at his art
is once again recruited to serve his country. A very sincere military
Officer, Colonel Isaac Johnson (Danny Glover) convinces him to help
protect the President of the United States. Convinced, Swagger details
the 'where and how' to the Colonel and his men, only to discover, they
are not what they appear and the Marine finds himself the target. On
the run, he must now evade a nationwide manhunt, clear his name and
find the truth behind the deception. Along the way, he discovers an
ally in a rookie F.B.I. agent named Nick Memphis (Michael Pe√±a) who
also becomes a wanted fugitive. Based on the novel by Steven Hunter the
fast action film includes notable Ned Beatty and Elias Koteas as Jack
Payne. If you're looking for action, drama and a plausible movie for
the times, you've found one. ****
