
With such high hopes for a film, a letdown is always lurking the depths
of your mind, but in this case, Campion far exceeded my exceptions.
Never could I have predicted the deep, meticulously crafted scenes, led
so strongly by Abbie Cornish playing Fanny. The heartwrenching emotion
in this movie was unlike any other; there has never been a more real
portrayal of the most simplistic yet most common emotions that rule the
heart. Campion went far beyond the usual "I am deeply in love; Now I am
sad" and truly captured human idiosyncrasy as she delved into the
illogical, irrational minds of two young and suddenly in love
individuals. At times, it was almost too much to bear due to how
intensely palpable the sadness was. To some, certain scenes or moments
may have seemed a little longer than usual, but completely necessary is
the silence, just as much as the dialogue. This film perfectly embodied
how a simple, real, profound story should be told.

If the above were not enough to drive this movie on, the aesthetics
were nothing short of spectacular. Each stitch in Fanny's sewing was as
beautiful as each scene in a field of lavender or room flooded with
butterflies. The magnificent settings, costumes, and natural sunshine
pouring into a perfectly decorated room felt not contrived, but simply
like a very real dream. As the curtains in Fanny's room got caught in
the breeze, it was as if you felt it cooling you down ever so slightly
as her content emotion overtook your mind.

Ben Whishaw, too, was superb: perfectly embodying the fragile, wondrous
poet that was John Keats, so full of tender emotion. Fanny's younger
sister was another beautiful element of this film and really stole the
show in her own right with her hilarious and endearing perception of
life in general. Each character and each line spoken brought something
so special to the story. As much witty humor as there was aching
sorrow, this movie is not one to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
I just had the pleasure of seeing Bright Star tonight. I was hoping it
would be as good as the trailer, and it was. The trailer is not
misleading in this sense but a pretty good representation of the movie.

Most of the negative reviews I've read for this have something to do
with how the film is "little" or "slow." Rarely, they comment that it's
"melodramatic." Which it's NOT by any means. It is not mawkishly
sentimental at all. It's not epic, it is small in a way, and there's
never any seizing moment of action. That doesn't make it boring; it's
engaging throughout. 

This is different from any period film I've ever seen, or really,
imagined. It's not like typical period pieces in trying to wow you with
its aesthetic recreation of the time, it's not so much about the visual
splendor, though it looks very lovely and is thoroughly convincing as a
representation of that period. It's visually quite different from other
period pieces, it has a more realistic and kind of earthy look rather
than pastel-colored and with a glow around everything. There are slums
and less-than-palatial places. This isn't Pride and Prejudice. Neither
does it have sort of a broad, sweeping narrative. At heart it's a deep
love story about famed poet John Keats and his love and muse, Franny
Brawne, whose relationship was cut short by a tragic death. It delves
deeply into the small details of their courtship, and is pretty
involved psychologically.

These people are portrayed realistically. Even the more minor
characters, they all seem to be real people, with actual personalities,
rather than caricatures or types of stuffy Regency people who are
preoccupied with propriety and good marriage matches. Fanny's mother is
nice, the main issue with her marrying Keats is that he literally can't
support her, and the people they know aren't mindlessly concerned about
it. They actually have FUN and do more interesting things than stand at
ballroom dances and sit at dinner. Who would have thought people in a
Regency period movie could actually climb trees, walk in the mud, or do
quirky, whimsical things? Their ease and naturalness and relative
candor in moving around, interacting with, and talking to each other
was refreshing and definitely different from the idea you generally
get. And this is the first period piece I've ever, ever seen where
anyone has actually picked up and held their pet cat and treated it
like you would your pet. You can actually hear it purring, it's a real
part of their surroundings. I liked that cat, it was cute.

The dialogue was superb. It wasn't this sloppy, general, or
comical/absurd stuff. It was precise, clear, charged with personality,
and often beautiful. When you hear the conversations between Fanny and
John, it's brilliant, real, and a pleasure. I have never seen such
intelligence, subtlety, or elegance in a movie in this way. To hear
Fanny respond to something John said, even just a word, as if she were
actually thinking about it, as would happen in real life, as if she
were an intelligent, feeling, witty person, was so nice. And so
DIFFERENT. It's a little hard to explain if you haven't seen it.
Suffice it to say, the dialogue is delicate and nuanced. They are
articulate but not pretentious, they are sensitive, individual people -
not unreal types who don't pick up on details. And it being about
Keats, the characters have a lot of literary intelligence. You will
enjoy the poetry in the movie.

The acting was great. Keats - I would probably fall in love with him,
too. He seems like such a sensitive, romantic, and intelligent guy. Ben
Whishaw was perfect for him. And Abbie Cornish as Fanny is wonderful -
while not extravagantly gorgeous exactly, her face has such clear
features that she has an extraordinary appeal. She is a very striking
character, and deeply feeling about Keats. You get a real sense of
love, real responses to grief instead of just a pretty swoon. It was a
real romance - their tender kiss was beautiful, the things they said to
each other, and the things they felt.

This movie is one of those rare films that are almost perfect to me.
That doesn't make it my favorite movie, but it means I didn't find much
wrong with it. The emotion isn't overwhelming, it's not exactly
visceral, but it's moving and penetrating, it has its own style. It's
NOT sappy or conventional. The extreme intelligence, realism, and
emotional depth of this movie truly set it apart from all others. I
heard a review say something like about how it's just about "old
British speech and mannerisms," which couldn't be farther from the
truth. It is NOT driven by quaintness or generic period speech like
other period films. The dialogue is not stiff, pretentious, or
artificial, though it's accurate. Sweet, moving, and intelligent,
Bright Star has rare depth. It's definitely like no other movie. You
should go see it if you think you'd be into it at all, by any stretch.
You might not like it - it is rather "slow," but very interesting, at
least for me - but it would be a thick or insensitive person indeed who
couldn't appreciate it in some way. It's like how Keats described Fanny
- "the brightest, most delicate thing."

My favorite quotes are:

"A thing of beauty is a joy forever. Its loveliness increases. It will
never pass into nothingness."

"I almost wish we were butterflies, and lived but three summer days.
Three such days with you I could fill with more delight than fifty
common years could ever contain." 

There are many others, much of Keats' letters to Fanny is so beautiful,
but I can't remember them off the top of my head. These are two that
appear in the trailer.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film tonight, and in my eyes, it is a perfect film.
Beautifully acted by all involved, (several times during the film I
found myself thinking 'Abby Cornish is amazing!", despite not being a
huge fan before), and stunningly shot, it contains some of the most
beautifully cinematic scenes i have ever seen committed to film.
Campion does a wonderful job of communicating Fanny' emotional state
through the composition, particularly in one scene where the wind is
blowing the curtain in her bedroom. The light and colour are fresh and
gorgeous and the costumes and design add to the overall piece without
being distracting, which is just what you want from a period piece.

But in the end, it is above all a wonderful story, well told. A deeply
romantic tale, the story of Fanny and Keats could easily have become a
mawkish, overly sentimental piece. But through her wonderfully
naturalistic dialogue, her use of humour and light touch, and her
restrained story telling (she never lets a scene go on one line too
long) Jane Campion has created a heart wrenching film which I cannot
fault. The characters are real and fully rounded, you feel the joys and
the pain with them, and where I think she really succeeds is by making
their love affair extraordinary and yet at the same time deeply
ordinary. It stirred up my own personal experiences of love and loss
and you would have to have a heart of stone not to shed a tear at the
end. Lovely lovely film, and what cinema should be all about.
<|_=00=_|>
Each scene, every word uttered by the characters was so beautifully and
often wittily crafted that I couldn't help but wish I lived in such a
lush world, full of idealism and love of literature, not to mention
people who cared about one another with such kindness and unabashed
concern. Many of the scenes evoked the sixteenth century Dutch masters,
whom Jane Campion may have used to set an authentic tone for her
masterpiece. John Keats, the most intensely romantic of the Romantic
poets (although Shelley and Lord Byron did their best) could not have
received a fairer treatment, plus he was superbly acted by Ben Whislaw;
I fell in love with the entire cast. This film lives up to its
potential, and if you know anything about the life of Keats, you
realize that it is a Titanic sort of plot, because the ship must go
down. Yet my sadness was only that I have to live in the current world
so dominated by name brands and nonsense rather than the fine stitchery
and wit of Fanny Brawne. Drag your husband, significant other and
everyone you know to see this film!! I've seen it twice!!
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this at the Ritz East. There wasn't much else playing & this
had an 8.1 rating on IMDb so I thought I'd check it out. My instincts
were well rewarded because this was one of the best movies I've seen.
It was a very well constructed film detailing the relationship of the
Romantic poet John Keats with his lover Fanny Brawne, as well as Keats'
relationship with his friend and patron Charles Brown.

The actors were relatively unknown to me. I'm pretty sure I've seen
Paul Schneider, who played Charles Brown, in other films. But Abbie
Cornish, who played Fanny, and Ben Whishaw, who played Keats, are new
to me. They were great. I can't imagine anyone doing a better job.

Jane Campion, the Director, brought the period to life. And the
character development was outstanding. The viewer really felt a
connection to the characters in the film, even minor characters, like
Fanny's mother & siblings, were highly engaging. Fanny's younger sister
was the most adorable little girl in film since Gretl in "The Sound of
Music".

The music and mood of the movie fit the period and subject perfectly. I
was mesmerized from the beginning to the end of this great film. I
think I'll go back and see it again. It was that good.

The movie ended, while the credits rolled, with Whishaw reciting "Ode
to a Nightingale" set to classical music. The audience stayed up until
the last credit rolled. It was a nice touch to finish the movie with.

This movie will likely be the definitive film about Romantic poets.
Maybe Campion will direct a movie about Byron in Greece or Shelley in
Italy. One thing is for sure, she set the bar pretty high with "Bright
Star".
<|_=00=_|>
Keats's romance with Fanny Brawne and final days are brought to lovely
life in Jane Campion's new film, Bright Star. He had TB, though it's
never named. When he had become very ill, they sent him to Rome. How
foolish! Its climate isn't healthy, though it might have seemed so
compared to Hampstead. The house where Keats lived in Hampstead for two
years and was in love with Fanny Brawne and wrote some of his has just
been restored.

Campion's film may not be a deep investigation of poetical genius, but
it's delicate and alive and infinitely touching. There's a delightful
litte rosy-cheeked girl, and good use is made of cats. The handsome
Regency house was then divided into two, one side occupied by Keats and
his landlord and possessive companion Charles Brown, the other by a
family called Brawne. He fell in love with Fanny Brawne, and she with
him. She is creative in her own way, a brilliant seamstress and
designer of clothing who was inventive with fabrics. She didn't know
much about poetry but to go by the film, she crammed the classics to be
able to talk to Keats and read all his poems and memorized many
passages. They recite them back and forth to each other, which may be
artificial, but you don't mind, because the poetry is their love, it
bloomed through their love and expresses it. Until he began coughing
blood and ceased to write because he was suddenly too ill, Keats wrote
some of his best work in Hampstead, in love with Fanny Brwwne.

They express their love in long sweet kisses, and walking hand in hand.
This too is artificial but a fitting symbolic expression of the ecstasy
and swoons of romantic poetry.

Sometimes the final credits define the experience of a film and of its
audience. You have to love a film over whose final credits the wispy,
winsome Whishaw is heard softly reading the whole of the Ode to a
Nightingale, right to the end, and you have to respect an audience in
an American cineplex when many of its members sit still to hear Keats's
masterpiece down to the final words, "Was it a vision, or a waking
dream?/ Fled is that music:  Do I wake or sleep?" Can you imagine
having known a person with such extravagant gifts? Campion doesn't get
too much in the way of our own imagining. She just lets it happen, lets
the cats wander in and out, and thus captures the sine curve of
romantic experience, its extremes of joy and despair that are so
poignantly focused in the life of this penniless English boy who died
at twenty-five, thinking himself a failure, and left behind some of the
finest poetry in the language.

Abbie Cornish plays Fanny, Ben Wishaw John Keats, Paul Schneider plays
Charles Brown. The little rosy-cheeked sister, Margaret "Toots" Brawne,
is played by Edie Martin. Brown is the villain of the piece, because he
jealously guards Keants from Fanny, whom he thinks is a silly girl who
only sews and flirts. He's getting in the way of romantic love! And
Schneider can't help but seem obtrusive here. Brown redeems himself
later when, having gotten the sweet Irish servant girl Abigail (Antonia
Campbell-Hughes) with child, he does the right thing and marries her.

Fanny's mother says she can't marry Keats, because he has no money, but
he proposes, and she accepts, and when the liebestod begins, there's no
way of denying his happiness or Fanny's, or the sadness and devotion
that made her wear the gold engagement band for the rest of her life.
Campion's film offers no profound insights into the poetic process. But
how can it? Though Fanny asks Keats to give her "lessons" in poetry,
its appreciation, like its creation, must be instinctive and cannot be
explained, particularly not the ethereal romantic kind. Wishaw's
delicate and enigmatic quality is a satisfying image to hang our
fantasies on.
<|_=00=_|>
Through brilliant, stunning visuals and intelligent, witty dialogue,
Jane Campion's Bright Star celebrates the rapture of passionate love.
Using many of the Romantic John Keats' own words--captured for
posterity in his poems and love letters to Fanny Brawne, his 'sweet
Girl'--Campion has weaved together one of the most beautiful films I
have ever seen. 

Rich 19th-century fabrics and breathtaking English scenery make Bright
Star a sensuous pleasure to experience. But these visuals merely
reflect the beauty within, the soul of this film: the love affair of
Miss Brawne and Mister Keats. 

Brawne is passionate about and proud of her fashionable and daring
needlework, as is Keats his aspiring albeit more fine-spun poetry, and
both share an ardent love of life and a longing for someone with whom
to experience it completely. Theirs is the inspiring true story of the
rare uniting of equals--of two strong, independent, and intelligent
individuals with unique talents and dreams yet deeply matching values
and desires. 

The emotional, intellectual, and subtly sensual affair between Brawne
and Keats is captured wonderfully in Bright Star, owing in part to the
portrayal and backdrop of those closest to the lovers in their own
lives, such as Keats' coarse but caring friend Charles Brown and
Brawne's warm mother and endearing siblings. The obtrusively vulgar
Brown serves in stark contrast to the gentlemanly Keats, whose
integrity and will Brown deeply admires but cannot quite live up to in
his own life, while Brawne's loving family--woven seamlessly into the
storyline through their presence in scenes of playfully benevolent
games, strolls, and dinner-parties-- serves as foil to the equally
loving yet singularly feisty Brawne. Through the meaningful and
often-tender dialogue and interactions between these vivid characters,
Bright Star is able to match beauty of setting with that of soul, a
rare feat in a film...as it is in life. 

Now Bright Star has been attacked as sentimental by the modern, cynical
skeptic, and if it were the hackneyed story of a princess and a pauper
mindlessly frolicking to their "fairytale" ending, his criticism might
merit a modicum of respect. But Bright Star is not a fairytale in that
empty sense; for the fact is Keats died at the age of 25, and he and
Brawne were anything but mindless. So unhappily for the cynic, his
venom is ineffectual against this film; for in Bright Star, his
normally insidious strain of attack finds its antidote: reality. Bright
Star is a *true story* depicting the love affair of two exceptional
souls who lived a life (however brief for Keats) of happiness *in this
world*. In today's angst-ridden, often gloomy atmosphere of humility
and despair--where so many either consciously diffuse or unwittingly
(and tragically) breathe in the modern liberal claim of man's depravity
(itself merely a mutation of the ancient Christian notion of Original
Sin)--the little-known Bright Star shines through in rebellion with
pride and exaltation, demanding its viewers resurrect the self-esteem
and aspiration they once had as children, and should never have let die
as adults. 

Although Bright Star is deeply uplifting and truly benevolent, one must
be prepared to leave its resplendent world tinged with a real sadness.
But this sadness does not--it cannot-- abide if one recalls Keats' own
poetic words to Brawne (from an early love letter), which encapsulate
the film's essence: passionate love for this wondrous world and one's
'Bright Star' in it... 

"...I almost wish we were butterflies and liv'd but three summer
days--three such days with you I could fill with more delight than
fifty common years could ever contain."
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that many viewers have coasted through this, believing it to
be a simple love story, told simply. It seemed to me anything but that.
This is a movie about the rhythms of poetic image from romantic love,
translated to cinematic image. The poet is Keats, who likely was as
imagined: melancholy, reaching for a romantic purity. Many such existed
it seems, but few that achieved this in words that matter.

The story is a simple one: ordinary in many ways. Instead of
romanticizing the woman, and their love, Campion does us a real
service. She shows that this great love was largely a matter of
accident: two primed lonely souls finding each other. The woman in this
case really was not very special, except in finding deep love. The
contrast between the souls of the poems, and similar pure romantic love
of movies and what we have here is striking.

The shift is not from the poetry to the people. The people stay real.
It is from the poetry to the cinematic presentation. Campion is able
without being obvious, of slipping real romantic images to buoy this.
Usually we have conventional duft, presenting some unrealistic ideal.
Here we have true love in sight, surrounding ordinariness.

Our bright star is a seamstress obsessed with fashion  fashion that
makes her truly seem shallow. Many of the clothes she wears are
strikingly ugly in the overall assembly. But in the small  which we
often see  they are composed of elements that could be items of
extended meditation. That they are her extended skin, consciously
designed and carefully crafted makes her an extraordinarily appealing
lover.

The first seconds of this film set the world, one that is
extraordinary. We see a closeup of a tiny needle being perfectly
threaded. We see an enormous closeup of that needle piercing virginal
white fabric. We slowly work to the situation of the woman involved.
She is the narrator, the maker. This is a movie that goes in my
database of "cloth" films, because the use of cloth is basic.

There is short preliminary, a short courting. It is not from Austin,
where strong soulmates bond, just two ordinary souls. But when they
kiss, we have one of the two sublime scenes. She lays on her bed (the
location of which carries great significance). A white curtain blows
seductively over her. Her similar white dress has the wind lifting it
and awakening underneath. This is absolutely breathtaking.

A second sequence may seem too heavy for most. Her love goes away and
she is forlorn. He writes an amazing letter, thus beginning his great
period. Butterflies are mentioned. So she fills her room with
butterflies. These somehow actually perform as part of the fabric-ed
space, participating as if directed. Oh no! She gets a letter cutting
off futures, and the butterflies die, to be swept into bins. If ever
there was a romantic cinematic environment, this is it, the
butter-feathered bedroom, where words feed image.

The little sister, perhaps ten and named Toots, is patterned after
Tootie in "Meet Me in St Louis," redhead, precocious, and romanticized
beyond all else. She is a sort of emissary into innocence, anchoring
the ideals this elicits but does not exploit. Ms Campion, thank you. A
movie about love that makes love. Thank you.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
"Bright Star" is not only one of the best films of the year, but also
Jane Campion's return to top form. Possibly the most acclaimed female
director of her time, thanks to early strong and praised works such as
"Sweetie" (1989), "An Angel At My Table" (1990) and particularly "The
Piano" (1993), the truth is that Campion hasn't had a real critical or
commercial success since... "The Piano". "The Portrait of a Lady"
(1996), her adaptation of the Henry James novel, had a stellar cast,
but was almost universally ignored; "Holy Smoke!" (1999), with Kate
Winslet and Harvey Keitel, had its moments, but failed to impress
anybody; and "In the Cut" (2003) was easily her worst film (but far
from a disaster). The fact that Campion managed to remain such a
respected name all these years even though not being the most prolific
or successful filmmaker proves how influential and fascinating she is.
She became some sort of figure for all the major female filmmakers from
the past two decades and developed a very personal style marked by
strong female sexuality (often, repressed), told with visual lyricism.
She may be considered a feminist, but not the obviously preachy type,
because her work flows like good cinema, and not as a heavy-handed
gender discussion.

"Bright Star" is a tragic love story, beautifully directed, acted,
photographed and written. Is it a revolutionary or innovative film? No.
But the power of its lyricism and unabridged romanticism is infinitely
touching. Anyone familiar with 19th century poet John Keats knows that
he died of tuberculosis at 25 (and this is no major spoiler, since it's
mentioned in every synopsis of the film), so we know the love birds are
not going to live happily ever after. Campion centers on the three-year
romance between Keats (a discreet and charming Ben Whishaw) and Fanny
Brawne (Abbie Cornish, magnificent); their passion and the issues that
prevented them from being together. Whishaw fits Keats' shoes
perfectly, even if he might seem a little too low key at times. Paul
Schneider ("All the Real Girls"), who's becoming one of the great
American character actors, plays the villain as Charles Armitage Brown,
Keats' friend who will do whatever he can to keep him away from Fanny.
Kerry Fox ("Shallow Grave", "Intimacy"), unforgettable as Janet Frame
in Campion's "An Angel At My Table", plays Mrs. Brawne, and Edie Martin
is simply adorable as Fanny's little sister Toots. But this is Abbie
Cornish's show all the way. This 27 year-old Australian first impressed
me opposite Heath Ledger in 2006's "Candy", and here she shows her full
potential. Her Fanny is simply incandescent - a terrific performance
that could culminate in Oscar glory. For all romantics and admirers of
good cinema, "Bright Star" is what Keats himself would call 'a thing of
beauty... a joy forever' - intoxicatingly beautiful. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Sitting in a packed cinema in Mill Valley, CA watching this film
demonstrates that the film experience still exists and that great films
can be made. This is a great movie experience because it is so gentle,
simple and direct-no stunts-no noise-no robots-just a piece of history
recreated with tenderness and poetic truth. Jane Champion shows how
film can tell a story without interference and how the elements of film
can join together to open a world of wonder and song.

The film is visual and very moving without being maudlin or
melodramatic. It also refuses to dwell on the sensational, even the
creative part of the story.

The viewer is left inspired to explore the creation of Keats, and no
wonder. Such an introduction to a life would leave anyone hungry for
more.

The performances are enchanting and almost mystical in scope. The
cinematography is just inspired. So this is it-turn off your lap top
and go to a show.....You will remember this for a very long time.
