
Since Ingmar Bergman's 1962 film, "Through a Glass, Darkly", the 2009
film "The Soloist" is one of the two most accurate portrayals of
schizophrenia, from the point of view of the mentally ill person and of
people who want to interact with the ill person. I speak from
experience. David Cronenberg's film, "Spider", is the other. 

I was disappointed in my two favourite critics, James Berardinelli and
Roger Ebert, each of who gave "The Soloist" only 62Â½%. 

Berardinelli says, "The Soloist is afflicted with a lack of passion.
The story lacks a strong trajectory; it meanders, seemingly unsure of
precisely what it wants to do and say and where it wants to go."
Actually, that is the reality of schizophrenia. One never knows what is
going to happen next. There are many setbacks. He also says, "The
soundtrack supplies multiple, overlapping voices. The objective is to
invite the viewer to participate in the unhinging of Nathaniel's mind,
a first-person perspective of schizophrenia. Unfortunately, it feels
artificial and contrived." I have taught seven NAMI* courses on mental
illness. One episode in one of the classes involves requiring class
members to perform certain simple tasks while being bombarded by random
voices from behind. Many class members find that to be the most
unnerving, and illuminating, of all the activities in the course.

Ebert misses the point when he says, "Yes, mental illness can be like
that, but can successful drama? There comes a point when Lopez has had
enough, and so, in sympathy, have we." Dealing with a mentally ill
person can be devastatingly frustrating. Must we always be entertained?
There is a place for grim reality in drama. Otherwise, how can we
learn?

"The Soloist" is as accurate a representation of schizophrenia as you
could experience without becoming mentally ill yourself. If you keep
that in mind then the film will be rewarding; if, however, you are
looking for a film that makes sense easily and progresses from point to
point in a logical manner, then look for a different film.

If you choose to watch the film and absorb the reality of mental
illness, then you will learn much. You never know when that knowledge
will be of great value to you. Then again, you may be spared, and never
need it.

The film introduces a very important idea: mentally ill people do
better if there is someone, whom they trust, who takes an abiding
interest in them.

It also poses one very important question: should mentally ill persons
be forced to take medication to stabilize themselves? Different states,
provinces and countries have different laws concerning this. Some feel
that mentally ill persons should be forced to take medication if and
only if they are likely to harm themselves or others. Mentally ill
persons are often unaware that they are mentally ill, and cannot be
convinced otherwise. Would they have more freedom to decide correctly
for themselves if they were first medicated until they become sane? The
film addresses this question but does not attempt to give a definitive
answer. You will have to think out that question yourself, keeping in
mind that different people have different reactions to the same
medication. There is no universal answer, but for each individual,
there is probably a best answer but not necessarily a good one.

The film captivated me from the beginning to the end. I did not miss
the common devices that some movies use to make them exciting. There
was excitement enough for me in the growth of the principal characters
and in the learning that I did, and in the thinking that I was forced
to do.

*NAMI is The National Alliance on Mental Illness.

P.S. Schizophrenia has absolutely nothing to do with having multiple
personalities, or of dichotomies (apparent contradictions). The split
in the expression "split personality" is the split between the
personality and reality. Unfortunately, the word is misused far more
often that it is used correctly.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I should say that I am personally familiar with this story,
having worked in downtown L.A. for the last 19 years and seeing Mr
Ayers and his cello many a time around 3rd and Hill Sts. I've also read
Lopez's columns in the Times for years and followed this one with
interest and satisfaction. Making a film about a tale like this
restores my belief in Hollywood beyond the mindless bunk it churns out
year after year.

Downey Jr and Foxx play a newspaper columnist and homeless man who come
together in a most unusual way. Downey is a newspaper columnist looking
for something original and interesting to write about. He finds it when
he sees Foxx beautifully playing battered stringed instruments along
3rd street in downtown L.A. Foxx has been there for years but on this
day grabs the eye of the columnist because the columnist himself is
experiencing hardship and doubt related to his own position. He begins
to write about this talented but troubled man who fills the stinky air
around him with harmony. They become friends but keep in mind this is
not fiction. The friendship hits many bumps that continue to this day.
Nathaniel Ayers (Foxx's character) may be a brilliant, educated
musician, but he suffers from bouts of schizophrenia that manifest at
any time. Downey's character accepts this as it adds more intrigue to
his columns. Then he accepts it on a personal level. Their friendship
ultimately becomes real and meaningful. You sense that Downey's
character needs the friendship even more than Foxx's homeless man does.
In the end, Downey's Lopez can see the positive effect his work has
brought to the plight of the homeless, yet he wonders personally how
much better he has made Nathaniel...? His reflections make us think
also.

Downey Jr and Foxx play their characters to near perfection and the
film masterfully takes its time in developing the relationship between
the two. Great to see director Joe Wright telling a contemporary tale
just as effectively as he has in previous works. The film makes us
wonder how many other Nathaniel Ayers are lurking out there on the
streets? Life being what it is, of course we will never know. The
beauty of the film is that is shows what can happen when just one
Nathaniel Ayers is found after being lost for so many years. There's no
sugarcoating; Ayers doesn't magically get better and rejoin mainstream
society. Instead, the mainstream accepts him for what he is and what he
offers and begins integrating him as best it can. This film will
certainly pop up at award time next year.
<|_=00=_|>
What makes this film watchable is that it is based on a true story. A
caring Los Angeles reporter named Steve Lopez (Robert Downey, Jr.)
tries to help a homeless man named Nathaniel Anthony Ayers (Jamie
Foxx).

Ayers suffers from paranoid schizophrenia. But he once attended
Julliard, and he still lives and breathes the music of Beethoven.
Ayers, with his shopping cart of possessions, walks the streets,
playing his violin amid the noise of the freeway. He's content, in his
own world.

That unusual behavior grabs the attention of Lopez, no doubt as a human
interest story for his own column. But as Lopez gradually becomes more
genuinely concerned about Ayers, their relationship encounters
frustration, anger, and emotional pain.

It's a poignant, gritty story, full of realism. The film manages to be
compassionate without being patronizing. The film does a terrific job
in portraying the harsh, depressing reality of the boarders who live at
a large shelter where Ayers goes, at the insistence of Lopez. 

Technical elements of the film are good. The visuals are thematically
impressive. Production design and costumes are detailed and realistic.
Acting is credible. Robert Downey, Jr. gives a fine performance.

The main problem is the plot. Too much time is spent on Lopez and his
trivialities. Somehow, the compelling Ayers story morphs into a weighty
examination of Lopez and his distress in dealing with Ayers. The script
is to blame here. I think if the main character had been Ayers, instead
of Lopez, the film could have been quite inspiring.

Even so, the film clearly calls attention to the plight of the urban
homeless. As such, the film deserves viewer support.
<|_=00=_|>
After catching snippets of the lackluster reviews (two-stars in the
Globe and Mail) I was dis-heartened. It's been a few months since I'd
been moved by the trailer. However, the film never came out. I thought
it might have been shelved.

I was glad to see it was indeed playing. In spite of the reviews, I
persevered on the strength of the trailer. It seemed to me there was
too much talent and pedigree involved for it to actually suck. And you
know what? it's a terrific film with a poignant story. Perhaps lower
expectations propped up my perceptions of it, however, it still stands
as time well spent.

The film is based on a true story involving a top columnist at the LA
Times, Steve Lopez, played with grace by Robert Downey Jr., who becomes
invested in one of his more colourful subjects, Nathaniel Ayers, an
accomplished musician overcome by mental illness, now living on the
streets of LA portrayed by Jamie Foxx, who rambles his way to a
convincing performance.

The film is a satisfying adult drama that doesn't lose it's direction.
It doesn't pander to it's audience. There is no random violence, no
guns, but indeed simply good story telling with great
characterizations. It's a decent film that deserves better treatment in
the press. It has a noble heart that succeeds in telling a great human
story.

It resonates and strikes a chord.
<|_=00=_|>
I sometimes work clinically with schizophrenics. This film shows us the
truth about working with severely mentally ill people. David, the man
who runs the shelter for the homeless honestly spoke the truth with his
stance that is opposite of what the Pharmaceutical Industry, most of
psychiatry and the legal system try to make us believe. David was my
hero in this movie.

All though the movie goes quickly over Jamie Fox's childhood trauma and
losses -- it's still there, i.e. no father and the truck on fire
represent some of the traumas that created his illness. Homeless people
with mental illness did not come from healthy childhoods. Almost all
came from repeated childhood trauma.(see New Zealand Psychologist John
Read PhD and colleagues, the ACE Study from the CDC, and Charles
Whitfield's book The Truth about Mental Illness, 2004).

Hollywood did not cover over the painful truths in this story. Jamie
Fox's character's mother and his sister were good people and that comes
through but they couldn't prevent his wounding. At the end of the film,
we are told "90,000 Homeless people in Los Angeles." We walked out of
the theater overwhelmed with that figure and uplifted by this true
story.

If you're really interested in the truth about schizophrenia there is
an excellent DVD documentary called Take These Broken Wings: Recover
from Schizophrenia without Medication by Daniel Mackler
<|_=00=_|>
Within a one-week period, I saw my second screening of this powerful
movie today. I am mystified by some of the "bilious-type" reviews found
here, seemingly driven by an anti-Joe Wright campaign. I found no cheap
sentiments in the story line and I was awed by the high-octane
performances of Jamie Foxx and Robert Downey, Jr. Nothing being perfect
in an imperfect world, as "adult" entertainment, "The Soloist" did not
once insult my intelligence. I marveled at the complexity of the
screenplay and the realization of it by its gifted director and the
camera-work of Seamus McGarvey. The gifted Dario Marianelli is credited
as the film's composer, anecdotally, in the gigantic shadow of Ludwig
van Beethoven. Mental illness, genius, homelessness, journalism and
music has rarely been so well presented as an "entertainment." Yes, Mr.
Ayers is depicted as experiencing a "light show" when attending a
rehearsal of the L. A. Philharmonic. At least we didn't see pink
hippopotamus in tutus or dinosaurs on a rampage in a prehistoric
setting. Being so accustomed to televised concerts, I expected the
camera to focus on the instruments themselves in this sequence. And,
"clapping pigeons." Great idea that works. A brave film directed at a
"non-art house" audience. I also want to cite the wonderful work of
Nelsan Ellis who plays David at LAMP. So much compassion comes off the
screen with his presence. There is no way we can make "light" of the
tragedy of the homeless, so many with mental illness. Thank you Mr.
Steve Lopez for introducing me to Mr. Nathaniel Anthony Ayers. My life
is richer for the experience. LisaGay Hamilton, as Jennifer Ayers,
Nathaniel's sister, deserves recognition in a small, but pivotal role
that brings dignity and catharsis to a heart-wrenching experience.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was supposed to be a major competitor for the Oscars last
year, but Paramount bumped it to a few months later. Despite the mixed
reviews the film has received, I believe it would have been a major
contender. I honestly think Paramount's decision not only ruined its
chances for Oscars, it gave the impression that there was something
wrong with the picture. There isn't, really. The subject matter does
scream "Oscar Bait", with Robert Downey Jr. playing a newspaper
columnist who writes about a schizophrenic genius musician (Jamie Foxx)
who is homeless on the streets of L.A. We all remember Shine. Shine was
pretty good (if entirely made up, as we later discovered). The Soloist
is probably a little better. I think it's stronger because of its
exploration of the relationship between the two central characters.
Both Downey and Foxx are extremely good; both are award-worthy. This
material could easily have been cheesy Oscar bait, but director Joe
Wright (Pride and Prejudice and Atonement) is a virtuoso himself. The
way he uses image and sound move the story along beautifully, not
allowing the clichÃ©s to clog up the film.
<|_=00=_|>
THE SOLOIST is a powerful, heartfelt, emotionally moving, human drama
with two incredibly talented actors who give their all. It is every bit
as wonderful as what it promises. Definitely one of the best films of
the year. If you're looking for... an inspiring story, well then look
no further. This is another accomplishment by Director Joe Wright
(Pride & Prejudice, Atonement) I've always known Jamie Foxx and Robert
Downey Jr. are two great actors respectively but the mix of two is like
combining two different formulas that compliment each other and create
an atomic chemistry only described as something that no one else will
ever manage to replicate. They can try but won't come out as good as
these two.

This is Jamie Foxx's best performance since Ray, and I'd vouch for a
second nomination on the horizon. Robert Downey Jr. proves that he's
versatile, that he's more than just Tony Stark and he still got pieces
of greatness from when he played Chaplin years ago.

We can't really compare the two characters with Tom Cruise and Dustin
Hoffman in Rain Man because unlike that movie, in this one, Downey's
character, Lopez, doesn't try to take advantage of Jamie's character's,
Nathaniel's musical talent. In fact, Lopez thinks that by fixing
Nathaniel then maybe he could fix his broken marriage, he thinks that
by fixing Nathaniel, he could fix L.A., he thinks that by fixing
Nathaniel, all his writing and columns and accomplishment could mean
something. But the problem is Nathaniel doesn't want to be fixed.

Sometimes, the only way to heal somebody is just be a good friend in
need. Sometimes we gotta accept the fact that some things can't be
fixed and that being there for someone speaks louder than our aimless
effort to turn them into something they're not.

Nathaniel's love of music is his only connection to what's left that's
good in his life, in the midst of chaos and confusion. A friend makes
that connection even stronger.

That's what I love about this movie, the story.

Joe Wright's directing is superb, he understands the plot and how the
actors should respond to whatever conflict that may surface. The
locations chosen or how a scene would play out, his vision of it all is
borderline perfect. The portrayal of the skid row and how the camera
moves from one homeless guy to another and take us on this view of the
forgotten little kingdom is quite humbling. Those of us who've seen the
real LA would not find this to be an exaggeration. Director of
Photography Seamus McGarvey should definitely be nominated again for
the Cinematography, which is absolutely brilliant --Rama's SCREEN--
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Downey Jr. is amazing in Joe Wright's "The Soloist". Downey is
powerful, and embodies such humanity and compassion. His performance is
never self-conscious, all about the character and the story. There is a
quiet scene where Downey's Steve Lopez confesses to his ex-wife Mary
(wonderful Catherine Keener) about Nathaniel Ayers (Jamie Foxx), "He's
got a giftÂ" But Steve is at the breaking point in his efforts in
helping the disturbed former child protÃ©gÃ©e. Keener consoles, "You are
not going to cure himÂ All you can do is be his friend." "The Soloist"
is brilliant in its catharsis and simplicity. Director Joe Wright
("Atonement") literally orchestrates powerful and touching performances
from Downey and Foxx. Screenwriter Susannah Grant does a virtuoso
translation of Los Angeles Times columnist Steve Lopez's book. I loved
"The Soloist". "The Soloist" is so compelling in its humanity.

Based on a true story, "The Soloist" tells the story of Steve's
(Downey) friendship with Nathaniel (Foxx). By accident L.A. Times
writer Steve Lopez meets Nathaniel Ayers on his lunch break in the
park. The homeless Nathaniel is playing Beethoven on his two string
violin. Nathaniel admits to Steve, "ÂI've had a few set backs." Steve
sees a potential story in thisÂfor him. After initial research, Steve
discovers that Nathaniel was a student at Julliard, who mysteriously
dropped out in 1970. Through Grant's narrative we learn that the
musical genius Nathaniel may have battled schizophrenia since
childhood.

"The Soloist" follows Steve's journey to salvage Nathaniel's life.
Wright and Grant also make us aware of the plight of the homeless in
Los Angeles, and the efforts of such noble causes as LAMP. They also
provide insight into the pain and suffering of the mentally ill and
challenged. To that end Jaime Foxx is defined authenticity. As
Nathaniel, Foxx brilliantly stays the course, because his character
will not change. That transformation is left to Downey's Steve, who
must deliver on their partnership. Downey astounds. He is so believable
and compelling as the good and decent man doing his best, and at a loss
as to what to do. At one story arc, Nathaniel tells Steve, "I love
you." That is not what Steve wanted to hear, because now he is
responsible for another. He confesses to the LAMP director, "I don't
want to be his only thing!" 

The most astounding thing about Downey's compassionate performance is
displayed when he is listening and in his silence. There is a
breathtaking scene where Steve gives Nathaniel a cello, and eyes widen
as he listens to Nathaniel play. He and Foxx have a touching screen
partnership. I was in awe in a scene where Downey and Foxx sit together
and listen to a Los Angeles Symphony rehearsal at the Disney Concert
Hall.

"The Soloist" at times is off paced and is distracted by some narrative
turns. However, it has great heart. Jaime Foxx is compelling and true.
Robert Downey Jr. is electrifying. This is truly his movieÂhe is
awesome. In the words of Downey's Steve, "Being his friend will carry
you home." See "The Soloist", and allow yourself to be moved.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie at a screening last year, yet this movie stuck with me
back then as it still does now (Many spoilers follow below): 

Based on a true story and a book The Soloist is a special movie that
might end up getting serious Academy Award attention (don't know why it
got delayed last year when it easily could have been nominated for Best
Picture, Best Actor and Best Supporting actor at this year's Oscars).
This story takes place in Los Angeles and has a lot to say about LA
(Namely dirty politics, the homeless problem specifically in Skid Row
but can be attributed to the whole state, and mental illness) it was a
must see. The fact that there were two great actors in the lead Jamie
Foxx (Ray)and Robert Downey Jr. (Iron Man) was enough for me to see it.
The movie is about a homeless musician with schizophrenia. At least
that's part of the story, this a movie that has a story within a story.
We learn about the brilliance of Nathaniel Ayers Jr. played with
stunning excellence by Foxx.

Ayers for whatever reason developed schizophrenia but was a brilliant
cello and violin player with a love for Beethoven. LA Times journalist,
Steve Lopez (Downey) does something that not many journalists do when
he reaches to Ayers for help seeing his brilliant playing (not too
mention the circumstances which he lives in which are to say the least
inhumane but no one gives a damn about except the homeless shelter
Ayers visits.) and hoping that he can fulfill his dreams of sharing his
brilliant gift of playing music. 

Lopez really doesn't know what he is getting himself into as Ayers
schizophrenia often poses numerous problems not just for Ayers health
but any potential rewarding job opportunities. Both Foxx and Downey
play these parts great. They really are some of the best actors in the
business today. Like I said a story within a story, we see the homeless
problem in Skid Row (although really all of California like other
states has a big homeless problem). We see REALLY NO ASSISTANCE for the
homeless. Then the Mayor makes some speech promising to help the
homeless but as with most politicians most of their promises are crap
as we see a sweep (really a beat down of the homeless by the pigs, I
mean cops of LA). This is something that is done in other cities for
whatever reason (I guess maybe the mentality is if they get rid of the
homeless and move them out of the area no one will realize there is a
problem).

Anyhow, I really liked the director's guts (Joe Wright) to show not
just Nathaniel's story but the story of other homeless people and poor
people of the area. This could have been one of those garbage
"Hollywood ending" movies where everybody gets saved but Joe Wright
presents the real consequences and results of situations. Anyways, this
is a great, great movie that is not to be missed. It's not a Shine
ripoff!!! You know they throw around a lot of exaggerated phrases like
"this is the Best movie I've seen in years", "This movie is
mesmerizing",. " It will tug away at your heart", but really this is a
movie that lives up to all that and more. 

I've also started reading the real book "The Soloist" by Steve Lopez. I
would also highly recommend reading the book as it will give your more
details about Ayers and more insight from Lopez himself in learning
about his new friend and what others with schizophrenia go through.
It's a great book. This movie really is one of the best movies I've
seen in a while by two great actors.
