
There's honestly not much more to say on this movie. It did exactly
what it seems it set out to do- make people laugh and have them walk
away with the warm fuzzies.

The characters have great chemistry on screen, especially Kevin Hart
and Josh Gad. The plot is pretty easy to predict, but there are still a
few surprises on how some points are executed. There are some great
laugh-out-loud moments, even with a couple of cringe-worthy ones (was
the view of what the dog chomped on really needed?).

All in all, I had a good time watching it. I kind of wish I had waited
to see it in the $2 theater, but I'd watch it again if given the
chance.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like this movie, mainly because I think Kevin Hart
has had a rough few years. Not financially of course; the guy has been
starring in more than a few comedies the past couple years, but
critically, none of them (Ride Along, Get Hard, About Last Night) can
be called a genuinely great movie. The Wedding Ringer is the best of
the bunch, though. This is Kevin Hart in his element - his most dynamic
performance and playing a Hitch-style role where he gets hired to be
people's best mans for guys who don't have any friends. Josh Gad plays
the loser character, and he and Hart have great chemistry and some very
funny back and forth moments. I was actually surprised at how much I
was enjoying this movie for the first half, but then the problems
became too glaring to ignore.

The premise feels fresh and fun in the beginning. It felt like a cross
between Wedding Crashers and I Love You, Man without directly copying
either of them. The problem is, those movies had more character depth
beyond their two leads. Here, every character besides Hart and Gad are
cardboard cutouts. The biggest offender is Paige, played by Kaley
Cuoco. She is the most shallow caricature of a woman I've seen in
comedy in a long long time. It's a shame because Kaley does what she
can, but her character is so one-dimensional you can't even connect
with her on any level. The random groomsman have their moments, but
they're still only caricatures. There's the buff guy, the fresh out of
prison rapist, the guy who likes pulling out his penis, the socially
awkward guy, etc. They may have defining traits, but not one of them
feels like a fleshed out character.

Structure is another problem in this movie because after an excellent
setup, it starts going down the list of the same tropes and beats as
every other zany wedding comedy. Competitive family football scene?
Check. Guy finding out girl is actually a bitch? Check. Guy and
employer who have a strictly business relationship actually become
friends in the end? Check. It's a shame because when Kevin Hart is
given a chance to shine, he shines. But those moments become less and
less often as the movie tries to tie itself neatly with a bow in the
third act.

The Wedding Ringer is good for a few laughs, but in the end it's just
another Kevin Hart comedy that had potential but didn't explore it. The
man has proved himself to be a comedic force to be reckoned with. Now
it's just a waiting game until he finds a script that fully plays to
his strengths. Until then, The Wedding Ringer seems to be the one to
beat, and as far as raunchy comedies go, you could do a lot worse.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't laughed this much watching a movie in a very long time. It
was truly a entertaining movie filled with laughter and comedy. A very
positive and fun movie that will leave you with a big smile on your
lips.I totally recommend this movie to anyone. Kevin Hart was great in
his role, so was Josh Gad as well. I didn't expect this movie to be
THIS good and funny. Loved every scene in this movie and each character
in this movie was super hilarious. The only thing i can think of that
wasn't that great was actually Kaley Cuoco-Sweetings acting, she was a
bit annoying in this movie. But it doesn't matter everything else is
perfect. You will not get disappointed in watching this movie, it will
leave you with a big big smile on your lips.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes a comedy doesn't need to do much to win someone like myself
over. All a comedy needs is some actors with chemistry, amusing jokes,
and a story that can hold my attention and I can be willing to forgive
its flaws. The Wedding Ringer doesn't re-invent the wheel, but I
certainly had a good time watching it spin.

Good: What propels this movie into watchable fluff is the cast. Josh
Gad and Kevin Hart have good chemistry together and they shine in their
scenes. They even make scenes that usually have me rolling my eyes like
a dance scene in the middle of the movie into something fun. The
supporting cast is funny within their stereotypes and it moves at a
good pace.

Bad: The movie is very predictable. Every single beat is telegraphed
two years in advanced and it doesn't sway away from it. The humor is
also very sporadic throughout the movie when it came to the laughs.

Overall, it's not a bad movie. It is a good one to watch when you are
bored at home. Entertaining comedy which in itself is a success
considering some of the other movies that were released the last few
months.
<|_=00=_|>
"God created the world in seven days. We gotta do a whole lot more in a
lot less time." Doug Harris (Gad) is getting married but has a problem.
Doug doesn't have any friends and needs groomsmen. When he is told
about Jimmy (Hart) he thinks he found his solution. The more the two
get to know each other the more they find out about themselves. I was a
little leery about this movie. The previews made it seem funny enough
and I really like Josh Gad, but Kevin Hart can sometimes get a little
too annoying for me. This is an exception. Hart played it almost
perfect and I never once felt like he was too over the top or annoying
like in Ride Along. I laughed much more than I was expecting to at this
and there is enough types of humor for everyone to find something they
will like. There is also enough heart and story in this to keep you
interested in what is happening and not just waiting for the next joke.
Me and my wife both liked this more than we expected too and this is
one of the better comedies to come out in a while. Overall, nothing all
that original and pretty predictable but it was very funny and when you
rent a comedy that is what you are looking for. To me this is Kevin
Hart's best movie I have seen. I give this a B+.
<|_=00=_|>
Josh Gad and Kevin Hart bring the laughs out in this hysterical buddy
comedy. Josh Gad plays Doug Harris, who is two weeks away from getting
married to his beloved fianc√©e, Gretchen Palmer. However, Doug doesn't
have any close friends to attend his wedding. He hires Jimmy Callahan,
played by Kevin Hart, to provide best men to attend his wedding. As the
days approach, an unexpected friendship develops between Doug and
Jimmy, and wild nights of hysteria ensues. This is one of the funniest
R-rated comedies I've seen since 22 Jump Street, which was last summer.
Its funny, hysterical, and sure had me laughing frequently.

Kevin Hart has been one of the funniest actors in Hollywood. I was
quite surprised to see Josh Gad doing a comedy. I have only known him
doing the voice of Olaf in Disney's Frozen, and playing Steve Wozniak
in the biopic drama Jobs, which was a critical failure. I also
surprised by the comedic chemistry him and Kevin Hart brought in this
movie. The dance during the wedding reception scene with these two was
easily one of the most laugh-inducing scenes in the film. The scene
taking place a the bachelor with the dog was a bit crude, but I
couldn't help laugh. Kevin Hart also delivers some of the funniest
dialogue in many scenes. Sure, there are some scenes that were a bit
predictable, but they still manage to be entertaining. 

Overall, this movie didn't disappoint me very much. It was very funny
and entertaining. If you are a Kevin Hart fan, this movie is a good
choice. Be cautious, there are a few nude scenes but don't let them
turn you away.
<|_=00=_|>
Doug is a nerdy introvert who is about to get married to a beautiful
girl Gretchen. However, with two weeks to go before their grand
wedding, Doug still could not come up with a Best Men and six
groomsmen. Enter the smooth-talking hustler Jimmy who runs a Best Man
for rent business to provide what Doug so desperately needed: a best
friend. The spoofy title comes from the traditional Best Man duty of
bringing the wedding rings during the ceremony.

Many wedding comedies would be about the bride, like "My Best Friend's
Wedding" or "Bride Wars." There have been movies about the parents,
like "Father of the Bride" or "Mother of the Bride". There have been
been movies about the "The Wedding Planner" or "The Wedding Singer' or
even "Wedding Crashers.' More recently, there had films about members
of the entourage of either gender, "The Hangover" and "Bridesmaids." As
a point of distinction, "The Wedding Ringer" is an uncommon wedding
comedy made from the point of view of the groom. 

Josh Gad is well-cast as the shy and socially-inept groom-to-be Doug.
With his chubby frame, smiling face and polite demeanor, it is not hard
to rally behind him and root him on. It is not really hard to conceive
how a significant number of men could face the problems as Doug, not
having male friends close enough to call a best man or groomsmen. He is
easy for the audience to identify with.

Kevin Hart is a natural to play the boisterous and gregarious Jimmy,
who had to fit in all the tall tales that Doug told Gretchen about his
imaginary "best friend" dubiously named Bic. Despite his character's
filthy mouth prone to profanity, Hart still manages to be funny and
engaging in a potentially annoying role. 

The other actors portraying the "groomsmen" were a rowdy random bunch
of the strangest types of men. They were hit and miss in their jokes,
many times coming off as too cringe-worthy. Easily recognizable among
them is hefty, long-haired Jorge Garcia. The very final scene is even a
well- placed reference to Garcia's most famous role on the hit TV
thriller series "Lost."

As the bride Gretchen, Kaley Cuoco-Sweeting basically reprises her
breakthrough role as a sexy but flaky girl in an unlikely relationship
with a nerd on hit TV comedy series "Big Bang Theory". More positively
impressive is Olivia Thirlby as Gretchen's younger sister Alison. Ms.
Thirlby is very pretty and smart, making a mark despite her limited
screen time.

Overall, "The Wedding Ringer," with all its derivative, shallow and
raunchy humor, still manages to come across with some insightful ideas
about male friendships and its intricacies. The lead pair of Josh Gad
and Kevin Hart share a vibrant bromantic comic chemistry together that
is a lot of fun to watch. Looking forward to watching more film
projects starring these two upcoming young comedians. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A comedy starring Kevin Hart, The Wedding Ringer is a tale of a Jimmy
Callahan (Kevin Hart) who has a business that help grooms survive the
wedding process. In this case Doug Harris (Josh Gad) has found the
woman of his dreams. He just has to give her the fairy tale ending she
deserves. In comes Bic (Kevin Hart) to save the day (for a small fee)
and allow the couple to live happily ever after. A silly funny film
that makes for a good laugh and realize the silliness of putting
needless pressures on a big day in a man and woman's life. A perfect
movie for those days you want to have a big laugh. I enjoyed it and
can't wait for my wedding day.
<|_=00=_|>
Review: This is yet another annoying movie from Kevin Hart, with loads
of silly jokes and an unrealistic storyline. Its about a groom who
doesn't have any friends so he can't come up with a best man for his
wedding. He's referred to a "Best Man" agency who supply the perfect
man for the job. The groom, played by Josh Gad, asks the agency for the
"Golden Package" so the fake best man (Kevin Hart) recruits his close
friends to help him with the job. The whole situation becomes a right
mess because none of there stories match up but Hart and Gad become
close and the groom realises that the marriage to his perfect bride,
isn't what he needs in his life. The film is non-stop from the
beginning to end and it felt like the director crammed in too much
material. The jokes really aren't that great and the plot goes from one
ridiculous scene to the next. The only thing that keeps the movie
interesting is the relationship between the two main characters who
brought light to the crazy situation. Apart from that, I really didn't
find this movie that funny and the storyline became quite annoying
after a while. Disappointing!

Round-Up: I really can't see how this movie made any money at the box
office! There's obviously an audience for Kevin Hart's type of comedy
because his movies always make a healthy profit. In this film, his
jokes are quite toned down compared to his other movies like Ride
Along, About Last Night and Think Like A Man but I still found him
quite annoying. Josh Gad acts the same in all of his movies so I wasn't
that surprised with his performance. It the first movie to be directed
by Jeremy Garelick but he did write and produce the Break- Up with
Jennifer Aniston and Vincent Vaughn. Personally, I think that this
would have been much better if there was other actors playing the leads
because the concept isn't that bad.¬†

Budget: $23million Worldwide Gross: $80million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their comedies about a
groom who hires a best man for his wedding because he has a lack of
close friends. 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Wedding Ringer" is another modern comedy that tries to have it
both ways. It goes for gross-out, outrageous humour, referencing topics
like child abuse and zoophilia, but also tries for moments of
soppiness. It gets neither, perhaps because the script is just so
clich√©d and yet poorly assembled that it seems to lurch from one
familiar moment to the next. It's like the movie has a split
personality, one good, one evil, both exhausted.

The movie opens with the suave, charming pretend best man played by
Kevin Hart (is he the "Wedding Ringer" of the title? What is a "wedding
ringer"?) killing it in his role as a best friend for hire, fooling
everyone with a marvelous speech. The guy who hired him thinks they
might actually be friends, but no! Hart is a cold S.O.B. who is only in
it for the money. But could he possibly have a heart (no pun intended)
after all? 

Anyway, our hero tracks him down to employ his services as a best man
for his own wedding - he's an average looking fat guy with no friends
who has improbably convinced some blonde babe to marry him: Kaley
Cuoco, who has made a career of playing the blonde babe with an
improbable connection to quirky geeks and misfits.

If you aren't clich√©d out by now, it gets worse: Kevin Hart doesn't
want take the job! He laughs in the hero's face!

Just once I would like to see a movie which begins with someone being
offered a job and them accepting it. Why do they ALWAYS have to turn it
down at first? Of course, something happens - who cares what, it's so
trite you stop paying attention - to make Hart change his mind.

Then we get obligatory scenes of Hart and the loser hero - Josh Gad, I
think the actor who plays him is called - rehearsing for their pretend
friendship. In a wiser comedy, this material could actually be poignant
and truthful, but of course it just goes for silly montages showing
ridiculous ways of faking photos to convince people they have a
history.

The movie gets more than a little weird in its reliance on clich√© when
Hart has to assemble a group of groomsmen who will also pretend to be
the loser hero's friends, and exclusively chooses weirdos. Why would
someone as gifted at the con as Hart's character is shoot himself in
the foot so ridiculously by choosing his partners in crime so poorly?
They look like they're not even from the same universe as him. I fear,
reader, it is because believable conmen like Hart's character would
become a bit creepy if we saw them fool everybody to that extent. Not
to be - we need easy laughs, again, to distract from the essential
sadness of the movie's premise, that some people don't have friends and
have to buy them to avoid embarrassment. We don't get those laughs, but
never mind. 

If the movie didn't lose me here, the "Bachelor Party"/"Hangover Part
Twelve" scene that came soon after did. We needed the gross out, and
the graphic male nudity, so we get a party which spirals out of control
and, wouldn't you know it, all the freaky groomsmen's weirdness comes
in handy after all, as if this were a kids' movie circa 1994, trying to
teach us to value the individuality of people.

Or, you know, perhaps the filmmakers just ran out of grown up movie
clich√©s and started ripping off "The Mighty Ducks". There is also an
obligatory sports scene, with quick editing of people getting rammed
into, falling over, getting muddy... and then the heroes winning,
despite the presence of the 6'10" Ed "Too Tall" Jones, a football hero
in real life, and another guy who's 6'6". They could have made this
scene at least halfway believable by casting average guys. What was the
point of making the opposite team actual NFL retirees? 

You know how it's going to end between Hart & Gad. What may be harder
to believe is that they try for a sweet moment after some of the other
garbage the movie contains. It veers between gross out and glucose to
quickly it could give you whiplash. Hart does have a few funny moments
though. As with "Get Hard", he is the only thing about this movie that
works.
