
The Horsemen touts itself as another serial killer cat and mouse and
admirably attempts to mix in several sub-genres including torture,
exotic piercing, plot twists, and even a silence of the lambs (more
Primal Fear in execution) style prison exchange. What transpires is
unfortunately a lot of set pieces that don't add a lot to the whole.
Dennis Quaid has always been fun to watch and has had several
noteworthy performances (my fav will always be Savior). Here he
struggles to play a hardened detective reminiscent of Al Pacino in
Insomnia, his lines are forced, he is simply a poor casting choice for
this role. He never reaches believability as the detective, and the
dramatic subterfuge of a single dad with 2 kids is laid on so thick, he
never sloshes out of the muck long enough to fill either role. The plot
is OK, fairly standard shake on a playful serial killer vs cop movie,
but the dialog is simply horrible. The lines are terribly clich√©' and
the actors, while capable, are just waiting for there time to speak,
never fully absorbed into the movie. This will likely go to video soon
where it may attract an easy to please crowd but ultimately does not
hold a candle to any of the movies it copied.

Maddis
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of those "clever" movies that had a twist at the end. The
whole point in these films is the twist at the end. The twist in this
film was obvious in the extreme but so stupid that you discounted it as
being too dumb.

During the second half of this movie the only thought in my head was
"please don't let this be the twist, please tell me that writers are
more imaginative than that, please don't let me have to watch the
second half of this movie only to find it was what I guessed after the
first 20 minutes".

The moral message of it all is dumb and a bit tired for anyone who has
watched enough American films. You could parody this entire movie and
make the moral message play out like an episode of southpark.

You could probably have condensed the whole film into an episode of
Steven King's short stories and it would have had a much wider impact.

Awful, just awful
<|_=00=_|>
By-the-numbers gore flick isn't especially bad, but sterile acting and
disjointed direction hinder it entirely.

Dennis Quaid (gloriously miscast) is Aidan Breslin, a detective
specialising in some teeth identification discipline. He's called to a
case whereby teeth alone have been left, and the more the case heats
up, he discovers the Horsemen of the Apocalypse are being emulated and
murdering victims in 'homage' to them.

The premise is certainly half decent, with a biblical reference always
adding spice to horror, such is the visceral underbelly such
association can produce. The problem is the production and casting, not
to mention plot development.

Horsemen suffers a disjointed structure, with extremely poor
characterisation and seam-filled editing causing a stop-start judder to
permeate throughout. This isn't helped by the fact that every role is
miscast, from the 'doing it for the money' Quaid as troubled Breslin,
Ziyi Zhang as troubled Kristen, and Lou Taylor Pucci as troubled Alex.

Every character appears to have personal demons apart from Stingray and
Tuck, who both look like actors in the wrong movie.

These foibles aside the horror effects are rather inconsistent - the
first body looks plainly like a dummy, and no amount of garish red
lighting hides that fact - thereafter they do pick up a bit, but it's a
bad start.

And the characterisation, as mentioned, is really poor - the viewer
isn't moved to care about anyone, and certain character introductions
are clunky and badly handled. The feeble and ineffective acting
certainly doesn't aid this.

In summary if you want horror by the numbers with a hint of whodunnit,
there are worse than Horsemen. But there are much much better too.
<|_=00=_|>
What is happening to Dennis Quaid? Seriously now, he is playing the
role of the distant father more and more and he plays in worse and
worse movies. I like the guy! Cast him in something decent!

As for the movie, it kind of sucked. I mean, the mythos behind the
killings was shabby, the police-work ridiculous and, worst of all, I
could not relate to ANY of the characters except Dennis Quaid's one...
part of the time. And the casting just reveals too much.

Bottom line: if you take Seven, you make it a lot less gruesome, you
add cardboard policemen and even cardboard villains, you dumb it down
considerably, then you get The Horsemen. Gave it a 6 only for Zhang's
efforts on speaking English.
<|_=00=_|>
I was gearing up for a good serial killer movie given the premise of
having the four horsemen of the apocalypse, with the trailer piquing my
interest from its fair share of unflinching blood and gore. Sad to say
though that the distributors preferred to appeal to a wider audience
for this, and some scenes were clearly butchered for its language,
conversational content as well as snipping off some of the more gory
moments of annihilation. I guess even the horsemen themselves are
powerless when up against the censors' scissors, which is the more
potent weapon here.

Dennis Quaid plays a pained cop Aidan Breslin, who has recently lost
his wife and is growing increasingly distant from his kids Alex (Lou
Taylor Pucci) and Sean (Liam James), burying himself in and using work
as an emotional crutch, never being there for family because work often
calls out for his attention. And as the trailers would have pretty much
revealed, the serial killer victims are all tortured with meat hooks of
sorts, and he's faced with more than 1 killer who model themselves
after the biblical Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.

Sounds like your average detective movie right? I guess a memorable
film from the genre like Se7en will only come once in a blue moon. This
film by Jonas Akerlund tries to elicit similar moods devoid of humour
and is all seriousness in tone, but its plot turned out to be quite
flimsy thin, and those who have experienced enough of the genre, would
have guessed the culprit for the last act somewhere by the mid-way
point. No, it's not Ziyi Zhang (as she is credited), and despite a
major billing in the credits, her character Kristen turned out to be
spoiled by the trailer already, coupled with the fact that she doesn't
have more than 15 minutes worth of screen time in total.

While this is one of her rare villainous outing with dialogue (back in
Rush Hour 2 she was struggling with English), I would have supposed
that opposition to her character here as a villain was unfounded, given
that they should have been more concerned with her sleepwalking through
the role, and could have been replaced by any other lesser actresses
since at best it's only a supporting role. Dennis Quaid however shows
how he ages well into delivering stellar, lead performances, and makes
it believable he's a man constantly struggling with a work-life
balance.

Ultimately, the message here is how important parents play in nurturing
their children, and should be very much involved in their development,
rather than thinking that cash would be a sufficient substitute and
settle everything. The film does suggest, and probably had a subplot
going for it, something like Japan's suicide pact clubs online,
something which I thought could have been given an additional focus
instead of leaving it open ended at that, just to show the extent of
the "apocalypse" as being delivered by its messengers.

Technically, one aspect which irked me, was how low the cropping turned
out to be. I have read that there were constant boom mikes spotted in
shots, so it could be a bad by-product of having to address that
problem, in addition to ensuring that the printed Chinese subtitles are
visible for the audience. So there were a lot of heads cut off at the
foreheads during shot-reverse-shot conversational pieces, and various
other medium to close up shots, that irritated the hell out of me.

Horsemen had an interesting premise working for it, but alas didn't
fulfill its potential in having to drop deeper themes for that frantic
pace to the finishing line - which comparing to the run time at
IMDb.com, we had 20 minutes shorn off here.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know about you, but when I sit down to watch a horror film, I
don't expect to be blown away. My expectation is only to be engaged,
kept in suspense, and hopefully scared out of my mind (this last one
being of the rarest variety).

This movie lived up to my expectations in all the important ways. My
curiosity was jump started in the first scene, and the somber,
introspective mood of the story line, spiked with horrific scenarios
and sickening plot twists, was exactly what I hoped.

The final twist was too easily guessed, of course, but it didn't take
away from the finale - a powerfully emotional scene portrayed very
convincingly by Dennis Quaid, who brought his usual energy and charisma
to the role.

If you're looking for a quality horror flick or suspense thriller, this
one is well worth your while!
<|_=00=_|>
This film was something I had high expectations for during the initial
half an hour, it had all the requirements of a good movie-good
setting-good actors-good originality somehow... At the end of the film
(it has a surprise ending) I found myself annoyed with it, like in lieu
of creating what I think would be a believable ending, they hired
another director to complete it or something, and that person just took
the shortest route to achieve exit speed, leaving the film finished but
not finished right. I found the ending ridiculous in fact, as in junk,
unworthy of the build up of the rest of the film. Maybe just avoid it,
go to the bathroom for a few hours or maybe rearrange a bunch of old
clothes. That probably would be time better spent.
<|_=00=_|>
A recently widowed detective is sucked into the investigation of a
series of brutal killings tied to the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.
As the investigation progresses events seem to be moving things closer
to himself.

Graphic murder mystery with a strong supernatural component, is for
much of its running time a deeply disturbing film. Its not just that
what we witness that is troubling, its that the tone of what we see,
the dark pall that hangs over everything is unnerving. Ziyi Zhang's
Kristen is an unholy force that will probably bother a good many
people. I've seen any number of dark and disturbing films and for a
good chunk of this film I was bothered by what I was seeing.

Unfortunately there is a point somewhere in the later part of the film
when things stop making sense. For whatever reason its as if the
filmmakers didn't know where they were going and instead of trying to
work out a suitable ending came up with something that was just sort of
there. Honestly I got to the end and had to watch it a couple of times
to try and make sense of what I was seeing. I don't think it ever made
sense and in the end the spell of the first part of the film was lost.

Worth seeing for the early disturbing part, just be prepared to be
disappointed in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
7.2 on IMDb? Really? It must be a reaction of Middle America to the
recent atheist uprising (books by Hitchens, Dawkins, etc.) that there
are so many fantastical movies lately. Not satisfied with comic book
heroes (Batman, Iron Man, Spiderman, etc.), or flat-out fantasy (Lord
of the Rings, Harry Potter, etc.), Hollywood has turned to outright
religious propaganda (Knowing, Henry Poole Was Here, Taking Chance
etc.). I enjoy watching movies as often as possible, so this trend was
readily apparent to me. Unfortunately, it doesn't make for a quality
movie experience.

I can only imagine the pitch the writer made to the studios: "It's like
Saw/Seven mixed with the Davinci Code!". Except with even worse
writing: 

Quaid: "He made 4 rigs. We got 2 victims".

Detective who looks like Chuck Berry crossed with Willem Dafoe: "Ah,
sh*t, so there's 2 more".

Sherlock Holmes, watch out! That's some fine detective work. How about
this: 

Quaid to Zhang Ziyi: "Well, I should also tell you that...I'm not very
good with children." 

Ziyi (who is 30 years old and looks at least 25): "I'm not a child." 

You don't say! This is only a sweet taste of the delicious dialogue you
can expect from...THE HORSEMEN! Further, the foreshadowing is so heavy
you can barely see. I don't want to spoil the grand experience of
enjoying this cinema for anyone, but from the opening scenes of Quaid
dealing with his emo sons (the older one is admittedly not bad in this
movie), well...it ain't no Sixth Sense, let's put it that way. 

Not really sure who this is supposed to appeal to: either parents of
Columbine-type nutjobs who can be reassured that their poor parenting
skills are understandable because they're explained IN THE BIBLE or
misunderstood youth who feel neglected by Mommy and Daddy, so it's okay
if they act out a Marilyn Manson video. Regardless, it's the viewer who
pays the price.

The only revelation this movie provides is this: Hollywood has your
money and time yet again!
<|_=00=_|>
Tell me that the movie is like Se7en and I am interested. Tell me that
Ziyi Zhang (Memoirs of a Geisha, House of Flying Daggers, Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon, 2046) is in it, and I am interested. Tell me that
Dennis Quaid, the actor starring in one of my favorite films, The Big
Easy, is starring this one, and I am definitely interested.

A combination like that should mean that I am in for a treat of some
kind.

Barry Shabaka Henley is always a welcome addition, and he was no
disappointment here. 

However, the rest of the film was a big disappointment. It was devoid
of any real emotion, and the struggle with the kids just distracted
from the quest for the killers. It never came close to Se7en.
