
Ah, the pre-summer action movie. Admittedly, due to word of mouth from
those who had attended earlier screenings of the film, my expectations
for Clash of the Titans were fairly low. On top of that, many of the
initial casting choices appeared to be somewhat suspect. So, what's my
verdict? Well, I didn't hate it 

The plot of Titans is extremely straightforward  practically to a
fault. Often, the film acts as though it's in a hurry, attempting to
get from one action sequence to the next as quickly as possible. The
scenes that occur in between each of these battles ultimately amount to
nothing more than brief segments of exposition delivered by Perseus'
"guardian angel" of sorts, Io (Gemma Arterton). So, while the film
never really drags, it feels very soulless.

And while we're on the subject of these action sequences, none of them
end up being particularly memorable. About half of them are so frenetic
to the point where they're almost disorienting - honestly, I'm glad
that the 3D screenings were sold out this time 'round. On top of that,
there's virtually no character development outside of Worthington's
character (and even he isn't all that likable), so I never really cared
about the outcome of these action sequences either. Also, as I
mentioned earlier, my biggest fear with Titans was in regards to the
acting, and thankfully, most of the cast do what's expected of them.
Neeson's Zeus aside, none of the performances truly stand out, but
they're nothing cringe-worthy either.

Ultimately, Clash of the Titans ends up being a forgettable piece of
entertainment with a couple of gaping plot holes, hit-or-miss action
sequences, and performances that fail to leave much of an impression.
It's not horrible  just hollow.
<|_=00=_|>
The myth of Perseus is based on deep philosophy and tragic elements,
which have been popular throughout the centuries. You may want to
Google it and read the original. You might discover a few things that
didn't know, for example that there is no Cracken, no scorpions, and
that Medusa's head ended up decorating goddess Athena's shield, just as
real shields had often Medusa painted, to scare the opponents.

The Cracken and the scorpions were "invented" by Ray Harryhausen in
1981, because this was his job: to display fantastic creatures on the
screen. In doing so, he based the stories on existing myths, respecting
the characters and plots as best as he could. Great work.

Now, why in 2010 they had to copy the copier, and not the original, it
is a mystery for me. Scorpions AGAIN ? Cracken AGAIN ? I mean if you're
going to deviate from the myth, why not deviate in an ORIGINAL manner ?

Mythology is the legacy of the centuries gone by. Film makers should
respect it and learn from it. It's funny how they think they can do
better :)
<|_=00=_|>
There are SPOILERS here, so beware....

I remember years ago, a friend and I discussing how awesome a remake of
Clash of the Titans would be. 10 years later this comes along. The
remake deviates way too much from the original. I get the attempt to
make a stand alone movie, but this remake is pointless. In the
original, the whole journey is for one reason only: Love. Perseus is
attempting to save Andromeda from the wrath of the Gods. The remake
makes it a journey based only on revenge. Perseus in the original was a
young, naive boy who discovers his inner hero. The remake shows Perseus
as a defiant muscle-bound idiot who automatically has the kind of skill
the warriors he travels with have devoted their lives to attaining. in
the original, Perseus had to tame and gain the trust of Pegasus. Not
here.... he just shows up. Convenient. Bubo, the golden owl (as cheesy
as he was) is nothing more than a sight gag in the remake. Calibos
poses no threat here. He was such an integral part of the original. The
addition of the character Io is just annoying. Her presence is
completely unnecessary. The Medusa training/seduction
scene...ridiculous. The Medusa scene was easily the best part of the
original... here it is anti-climatic. The Kraken? Besides the creature
being way too big, the whole movie hinges on what a threat this monster
is. Yeah, it looks cool (I'll give it that)... but for being such a
threatening monster, he sure is dispatched easily. Perseus spends more
time chasing a blurry harpy around than actually dealing with the
Kraken. Perseus's relationship to Andromeda is nothing more than
casual, the 3-D and slow motion are pointless and there is no giant
vulture. Sam Worthington should not be allowed to work again until he
can do so without his accent. The director, Louis Leterrier is just the
wrong person for this job. Transporter 2...sure. This? No. Liam Neeson,
Pete Postlethwait and Ralph Fiennes are truly slumming it on this one.
I'm sure no matter what is said, people are going to line up for this
one. I'm aware of how I sound here. But this movie truly is a let down
on every level. While they had the chance to make a fun popcorn movie
in the vein of Jurassic Park, Iron Man or even Star Trek (2009), they
really missed the mark here. The film is terribly cast, acted and
directed. A true waste of the title... but, hey... it sure looks
pretty, doesn't it?
<|_=00=_|>
Is it wrong to remake a movie just so you can update its special
effects? Hollywood doesn't seem to think so. The classic claymation and
stop motion sequences of old are some of the first things we think
about when bringing up the subject of mythology movies. But one still
cannot help but think how totally awesome it would look if it were
updated.

Anyone who has ever read mythology knows that every single tale is of
epic preportions. And by epic, i don't just mean the battle
sequences......im looking more towards the actual time line. Each
individual book always tells a story of one mans struggle against
countless odds that stretch over a long period of time. So normally
about halfway through, you begin to say to yourself "How much more can
this guy take?". And in saying that, i think that is where this movie
failed. I didn't feel hatred towards these gods. I didn't feel the need
to have my thirst for revenge quenched. I didn't feel sorry for the
main character Perseus.......because i didn't feel any depth to his
character or the plot. This movie focused way to much on the action
scenes, as opposed to the story.........which is suppose to be epic,
right? But yes, the action sequences are really great, and the scenes
with Medusa and the Kraken are awesome. But thats all i can really give
to this film. It just felt empty.

The transitions between each action scene were really poor. You can
tell that the director was trying his hardest to make you feel for
these characters by adding one or two lines of pathetic dialogue. And
since we are on the subject of dialogue......man it was bad. There was
no emotionality, all the little tid bits of humor fell flat at every
turn. It was like Michael Bay wrote the dialogue.

Bottom Line, this is just your basic, run of the mill, average action
movie........at best. This is certainly not one of those movies that
you will be telling your friends about the next day. Its action is
really good, its story is bland, its dialogue is weak........all things
that i really wouldn't consider epic. Also, and this is important for
you people who are tight on money. This is the first time i have ever
said this, but please, do not see this movie in 3-D. It is a giant
waste of money. You will get the same satisfaction seeing it in regular
2-D........trust me. There really was no point in making this movie in
3-D at all, other than to squeeze every dollar they can out of a
average action flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never seen the 1981 original version of Clash of the Titans. I
wasn't originally planning on seeing this new updated version either.
Going by the previews, this looked like nothing more than a
CGI-fest...which is what it pretty much ended up being. To quote Sam
Worthington from various interviews, it's basically him "in a skirt
with a rubber sword, killing monsters". If you're expecting anything
more than that, then yes, you will probably be disappointed.

Some of the cast manage to make the most of what they're given to work
with. Having not seen Sam Worthington in anything prior to this film
(except Terminator Salvation), I don't really have anything to compare
his acting to. He was good in Terminator Salvation and he's good in
this as well (despite the occasional slip-up of his accent). He serves
his purpose as Perseus, playing the action hero well enough. His
interaction with the humans who accompany him on his journey is
probably the most entertaining part of the film. Mads Mikkelsen, who
was a memorable villain in Casino Royale, actually gets to play a
fairly decent good guy in this film (Draco). Sure, it's the role of the
typical grumpy guy (who's reluctant to follow the "saviour" and is a
bit of a bully) teaching the hero how to fight and who eventually comes
around to respecting the hero and ending up on good terms with
him...but Mads manages to make his role a bit more than a cardboard
cutout, thankfully. The other men who accompany Perseus aren't too bad
either (they do provide a bit of humour), but they're not given much
character development at all. Actually, there's very little development
for any of the characters.

As far as the gods are concerned, they're basically just a bunch of
folk who stand around in Cloud City (I mean Olympus) and talk. Liam
Neeson isn't given a whole lot to work with as Zeus (shining in his
silver armour as brightly as Marlon Brando did in the original Superman
movie wearing his tinfoil costume). Ralph Fiennes, while good, is kind
of irritating with his raspy voice as Hades (though, thankfully, that
goes away by the end). The rest of the gods have jack squat to do or
say. 

I really didn't like Jason Flemyng's satyr character. Alexa Davalos
pretty much just plays the damsel in distress in the movie and leaves
very little impression as Andromeda. Gemma Arterton (as Io), however,
proves to be the most successful female character in the movie. As a
sort of angel on Perseus's shoulder, she guides him, teaches him and
actually proves *useful*. Her and Worthington work well together/have
good chemistry and I enjoyed watching the two of them share scenes. I
was happy with how they ended up in the film.

As for the FX, the previews basically give it all away (Clash of the
CGI might have been more befitting a title for the film). Perseus
fights giant scorpions, Perseus fights the Kraken and Perseus fights
Medusa. As large-scale as the Kraken was, I personally enjoyed Medusa
more. The fight with her proved to be the most interesting of the many
fights in the film. I liked the 'look'/design for her and I also really
enjoyed Pegasus, the flying horse. 

I'll just come right out and say it: the movie has many a flaw. The
story isn't great, the pace is off, the writing is slapdash and most of
the dialogue is sketchy at best. While the movie does try to get across
a message, it comes through in a somewhat haphazard sort of way. Having
said that, if you go into this film not expecting much more than a
Monster Mash of the Titans...then hopefully it should prove to be
entertaining enough. 

Crap of the Titans? Not quite. But at the same time, it's kind of
forgettable. As Worthington describes it, it's a "popcorn flick". Take
from that what you will.
<|_=00=_|>
This film would have been in line with Louis Leterrier's previous work:
highly enjoyable high octane action movies that even adults can
appreciate. Then somewhere along the lines, the greedy and short
sighted producers decided to cash-in a meager few extra bucks by
"converting" into 3D a movie shot in 2D. The result is fake at best
with fuzzy, dark and double edged images. For most of the movie you'll
feel the urge to remove your glasses. Too bad for the decent cast
(special kudos to Mads Mikkelsen as usual), nice photography and music
by a promising newcomer Ramin Djawadi. Bottom line: Recommended 2D,
Disaster in 3D Not everybody is James Cameron.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the original "Clash of the Titans" from Harryhausen in
1981, I dreaded the idea of a remake that would crush the magical
fantasy land that he created with the first version. And lo and behold,
my fears were confirmed.

This film tears to shreds the "Perseus vs. Medusa" myth and replaces it
with mindless power chord progressions, endless action sequences, and a
trivialized view of the Greek gods. Sam Worthington has proved himself
to be a competent actor recently, but his performance is just
nauseating with his embarrassed delivery of wooden dialogue. The script
is awful, and the overblown spectacle of the entire thing is so
self-indulgent that I was bored within the first 15 minutes.

I will say however that the only redeeming factor is the film's action
sequences. Though they do tend to drag on for nearly 10 minutes too
long in every case, they are well shot, and the hand-held camera adds
to the effect of the battle's intensity.

Slightly below average action film. Don't go expecting a faithful
adaptation of the original myth or even a quality remake of
Harryhausen's classic film.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I, being a huge fan of the original, was probably more excited to see
this movie than anyone. And in 3-D no less. So...I walk into the
theater with my 3-D glasses on my head, holding my $5 popcorn and get
ready to watch my favorite childhood movie and...and...and...oh no. Oh
no. This is awful. I sat through the movie wondering why I don't care
about any of these characters. On top of that, I'm wondering why I
spent the extra money to see it in 3-D. The best 3-D effects came
during the opening credits. Other than that, I could have thrown the
glasses away. Now I know why James Cameron is not a big fan of making
films 3-D after the fact. To make a long story short, I was incredibly
disappointed. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. Go see the
original "Clash of the Titans" if you want to lose yourself in a good
movie. After seeing this one all I could think of was "oh how the
mighty titans have fallen."
<|_=00=_|>
And once again Hollywood proves it has run out of original ideas. Why
else would they remake this movie? Back in 1981, when special effects
were beginning to take serious root in films, we had the original CLASH
OF THE TITANS. It had some cheesy claymation mixed with some less
cheesy special effects. But it did have a story. A damn good one. Sure
there were action sequences, especially when Perseus (Harry Hamlin) met
up with Medusa. But these action scenes were barely a few minutes long.
The story of the gods, how they felt about humanity (and how humanity
felt about them) dominated the storyline. Yes, there was an ACTUAL
story.

Fast forward to 2010 and you get this ...this ...this mess-of-a-remake
that relies almost solely on CGI and, well, basically nothing else.

The brief understanding of the god/human relationship is thrust aside
in favor of action scenes galore which have squat to do with the story.
There are so many throwaway characters as to be laughable. And 3-D? For
marketing purposes only. Save yourself some cash and see it in 2-D
...if at all.

My son went with me to see it (he's as much of a movie junky as I am)
and we both nearly fell asleep for lack of anything approaching a
viable understanding of who was carrying the storyline. We still ask
each other, "What was the point, again?" Sam Worthington seems to be a
hot commodity in today's movie market. TERMINATOR SALVATION and AVATAR
are two of his more recent accomplishment. And although I found those
two to be lukewarm in terms of story, they at least kept me engaged
enough not to yawn. And Liam Neeson has also been splattered all over
film posters (from TAKEN to KINGDOM OF HEAVEN). But a god? And Zeus for
that matter? Not the best casting choice. He just didn't have the
presence I was expecting. Perhaps the story (or lack thereof) stifled
his performance. Probably.

I also MUST caution women against seeing this if they enjoyed the
strong roles in the 1981 original. You'll find no such comparisons
here. There's really no good female character to be found. The closest
was Alexa Davalos (DEFIANCE) as Perseus' love interest, Andromeda. But
her role is so laughably short and misunderstood that you won't care
what happens to her (and things do happen).

My final word of caution comes to those of us (all of us) struggling in
today's economy. We need our escapism, and sometimes (occasionally)
Hollywood allows us to have it. But not here. You might as well sit on
the toilet and release the crappen!
<|_=00=_|>
3D is not perfect. Avatar may have shown its full potential whilst
Alice in Wonderland and How to Train Your Dragon have continued to
prove it can be utilised successful, but if not given the time and
effort it requires, the third dimension on screen can actually detract
from the movie. Unfortunately this is the case here. The last-minute
decision by the filmmakers to add the extra dimension feels tacky and
lazy. The objects in the foreground don't seamlessly meld with those in
the background and a lot of the action is blurry and unfocused. The
desert-brown palate is dimmed even more by the glasses  something the
aforementioned movies could cope with due to their vibrant colours 
and all of the wide shots are blotchy at best.

It's a shame really as some of the action scenes are quite impressive
and boast fairly decent special effects. The various creatures we
encounter aren't quite always photo-real, although the sheer size of
them  especially the tentacular Kraken  are impressive enough to wash
away any glaring flaws. However seeing as this blockbuster lives and
dies by its amped up, large-scaled sequences  the screenplay is utter
tripe and doesn't even bother to try to make the links between the
action interesting or reasonable  it regrettably falls on its own
sword, thanks once again to the indolent 3D. Take that away and you
might actually be able to enjoy the CGI and the ridiculously big
set-pieces with the picture clarity they deserve.

New Aussie on the block, Worthington, takes a misstep in his recently
flourishing career; his acting is wooden and unconvincing. It doesn't
help that Perseus is a massively underwritten role and only requires
Worthington to look good and occasionally mutter something heroic.
Neeson and Fiennes come across as cheesy in their roles of Zeus and
Hades respectively, their experienced acting chops can't save them from
atrocious wigs and laughable costumes. Standing out  which isn't
overly hard to be honest  is Arterton and Mikkelsen, they give decent
performances as the heavenly Io and the disgruntled Draco.

If you must see this on the big screen then do yourself a favour and
see it in normal 2D. Or, even better, just wait to rent it on Blu-Ray.

2.5 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 -
Classic)
