
I saw this film at a screening and it was fun and made me laugh and
remember why we go to the movies-to be entertained. It's a timeless
sweet and romantic story, with a lot of humorous moments throughout.
The cast is centered by the talented Nia Vardalos, who effortlessly
brings a very different, yet still enjoyable, character to life than in
previous films. As Georgia, Vardalos once again displays her uncanny
ability to portray a relatable character, and reinforces why we love
her. The supporting cast was also great, and their characters were so
real and typical and funny that I felt like this was written about a
tour bus I was once on. I'm sure many people have either encountered
people like them before or are related to someone like them. Alexis G,
the bus driver was like a modern Greek God, and I couldn't believe his
talent as an actor actually matched his good looks. 

Anyone who sees this film will find something to laugh at, because the
humor in this film can be appreciated no matter where you're from. And
following them along their journey through the astoundingly beautiful
Greece and it's historic sights, is icing on the cake. Not only would
it be worth the price of the movie ticket to see this movie, but it
might just make you want to buy a ticket to Greece. I know it made me
want to.
<|_=00=_|>
Early voters are being a little to hard on this feel-good romantic
comedy/Greek travel infomercial. Nia Vardolos is a Greek-American
expatriate in Greece, overqualified and unhappy with her temporary job
as a tour guide. Nia rolls her pretty eyes at the prospect of
entertaining a tacky crew of caricatured tourists, which include
Richard Dreyfuss as a jokester and Rachel Dratch as an absurd American.
Alexis Georgoulis is their hairy driver.

The jokes are pretty hit and miss, with mostly hits after the bus gets
rolling a bit. This is a warm, accessible, and engaging film, that will
satisfy fans of MBFGW who do not burden the film with too much in the
way of expectation.
<|_=00=_|>
For the past week it feels like Greece cannot stop talking about this
film! I was lucky enough to be invited by a friend to the world
premiere in Athens (am Greek-American, grew up in Baltimore, married
here, so living in Athens for about five years.) The Premiere was an
elegant occasion with a private reception with delicious food. The
audience of about 1500 people went crazy for this film. They laughed
and laughed and clapped and everyone I talked to said they wanted to
see it again. This movie has captured the joy of life in this country I
love. But just like My Big Fat Greek Wedding, you don't have to be
Greek to like it. It is such a funny movie and beautiful to look at.
All the actors do a great job and Nia and Alexis are very romantic
together. When they look at each other, you actually believe they're a
couple (I know they're not!!) Just like with the first movie, I know
Greeks can laugh at themselves (I was there, I heard them laughing like
crazy!! Of course, there are always insecure people in this world but I
think those type of people get offended by anything so who cares?) so I
am sure the movie will do well here, and also in every country because
it is a movie about tourists and traveling and being able to fall in
love when you think there isn't a chance for you anymore. All I can say
is, once again, Vardalos got it right."
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry, Nia. I'm a fan....but this movie falls pretty flat. The comedy
writing is contrived and predictable. There were some laugh out loud
moments. But they were too few and far between. Most of the characters
are cardboard cut-outs. They are unbelievable and obnoxious. And the
story? Well, we've seen it a million times before. Richard Dreyfuss is
the HIGHLIGHT of this film. It is in scenes with Nia and Dreyfuss that
the movie shines. The scene at the beach was so brief but so
powerful...Dreyfuss makes the most of those brief moments. The
scenery,however,is fantastic! To see the ruins of Greece on the big
screen...what a treat. Overall, I felt this movie was trying way too
hard to be funny....much like the tour guide in the movie. Wait for it
to come out on video.
<|_=00=_|>
Georgia (Nia Vardalos) went to Greece to teach at a university but
ended up giving tours of the islands instead, due to unforeseen
circumstances. She sends off resumes each week, looking for another
professorship, but, until then, she tries to enlighten the tourists
about the grandeur of Greece. They want none of it, usually, as they
would rather shop or bask on the beaches. One day, Georgia gets a new
driver, Poupi, a scruffy-looking Greek, and a new group of
stereotypical tourists. These include Irv (Richard Dreyfuss), an
American widower with a knack for making jokes, a frequently-tipsy
couple from Australia, two scantily-dressed, Spanish women looking for
rich husbands, and so on. As usual, they have no interest in Greek
ruins but do like the "genuinely fake" Greek souvenirs. How will
Georgia endure this without going stark raving mad? And, is Poupi
hiding a handsome exterior and a kind interior under his beard? This is
an enjoyable film for fans of romantic comedy but it is by no means
especially memorable. That's not Vardalos' fault for she has great
comedic skills and Dreyfuss does a good job, too. Its more the lack of
a surefire script and direction, for it is funny in spots but
not-so-funny in others and it has a far too-leisurely pace, at times.
On the plus side, however, the scenery of the Greek Isles is very
beautiful and the costuming and camera work are quite, quite nice. All
in all, if you love funny tales of love, this one will most likely be a
good time for you and yours. But, it is not in the same category as
this year's wonderful New in Town so, if you don't go with unreasonably
high expectations, you will have fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a screening of MY LIFE IN RUINS and found it to be
completely entertaining. I loved my BIG FAT Greek WEDDING and was
excited to see this new movie made by some of the same people and with
Nia Vardalos as the star. Nia has great comedic timing and she looks
fantastic in this film. I think a lot of people can identify with
feeling "out of whack" with life situations and it was enjoyable to
live vicariously through Nia's character Georgia as she made
breakthroughs in her love life and career. Some of the tour bus
characters were a little kooky, but I think that played into Georgia's
initial frustration with the job. By the end of the story, all of those
crazy people had become likable and even lovable in the case of Richard
Dreyfuss' character - I thought he was wonderful, too. And the bus
driver cleaned up very nicely - he was downright hot by the end of the
movie. The movie really is a perfect sales pitch for Greece. I felt the
same way I did after seeing UNDER THE TUSCAN SUN and SISTERHOOD OF THE
TRAVELING PANTS - I wanted to book a vacation to a beautiful European
country - and I would return to Greece in a heartbeat. Synopsis: watch
this film if you want a vacation from all the depressing news about the
economy, from your cold weather climate, from your own life stress...
or if you just want a vacation, period!
<|_=00=_|>
It's easy to put your finger on what went wrong with My Life in Ruins.
Director Vincent Sherman said, "More writers doesn't necessarily mean a
better script. Usually it means just the opposite. It's not easy to put
people together and make a successful collaboration." 

You can almost feel the push and pull between the talented Nia Vardalos
and writer Mike Reiss with this story of an American history professor
 turned  travel guide to an annoying group of tourists. Vardalos,
being Greek, no doubt added the very spot-on "Greekness" of the
characters and enriched the story; while Reiss ruined the fun with his
sophomoric writing and unfunny stereotypical characters. Hey, Mike,
didn't they teach you at Harvard that stereotypes are a no-no? This
ain't TV, Bubba, it's cinema! 

If Reiss had been taken out of the equation, and Vardolas given the
opportunity to run with the screenplay herself, My Life in Ruins would
probably have been more enjoyable from start to finish. Checking track
records, most television writers fail horribly crossing over to screen
writing. Yet, they're given the job! When are producers going to wise
up? 

My Life in Ruins is like a picky eater trying a Greek salad for the
first time. He picks out what he doesn't like, and enjoys the rest. So,
dig into the talented team of Vardolos, Georgoulis, Stegers, and
Dreyfuss, the beautiful Greek scenery, and the Greek way of life. The
rest of the salad  flat dialogue and stereotypical characters  leave
for the kitchen help to dispose of.
<|_=00=_|>
My Life in Ruins is corny, clichéd, predictable and a totally fun way
to spend an afternoon. Every now then a movie will come along and
change your life. This is not one of those movies. It is not highly
original or well acted but it is a funny and feel good film. My Life in
Ruins is about tour guide Georige (Nia Vardalos) who is bored with her
job, disappointed with life and generally just too uptight. Thanks to a
tour passenger Irv (Richard Deyfuss) who takes on a guardian angel role
and a sexy "ugly swan" bus driver (Alexis Georgoulis), Georgie begins
to look at life on a whole new level. Some of this movie is a little
one dimensional. The Australian tourist whose singular role in the
movie is to prove no one can understand us and that we like drinking
way too much were a little corny. However, none of this stops the movie
from being funny, fun and really entertaining. Vardolos continues to be
a delight on screen and her co-star Alexis Georgoulis is really really
hot. My advice is see this film, take along some high fat snacks and
don't feel guilty about either. After all, as the film preaches life is
too short to do anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to be happy, go See This Movie. I saw this film at a
screening in San Diego and am so happy it is getting released this
summer! It's funny, charming and above all, very romantic. It will
definitely make you want to visit Greece but if you can't afford to
travel, this movie is a great escape for about ten dollars. The scenery
is amazing, and this movie made me laugh out loud. This sexy new movie
star Alex G is amazing. Nia Vardalos is so perfect for this role. She
and Alex G have great chemistry. And, Richard Dreyfuss is sly and sweet
and Rachel Dratch is hilarious in anything she does. (little fact: She
and Nia V worked at the comedy theater "The Second City", in Chicago
together.) I left the theater with a smile, and wished there were more
films like this out there. It's a great summer movie and a great date
movie and just a fun time."
<|_=00=_|>
First off, Nia needs to lay off so much makeup. That's mostly what I
was noticing, and our TV is not that big. With the new HD and digital
technology no amount of makeup is going to erase the fact that you are
not 25 anymore. Move on. That aside, this has to be one of the most
disappointing movies ever. The premise is okay and some parts were not
too bad: Over-qualified fish out of water story, and "girl" meets the
man of her dreams, but there were so many clichés and stereotyping I
was cringing within minutes. Was any of that really necessary? Or the
fact that within 4 days a group of strangers becomes a family. That can
happen, but the sudden turn-around of a few of the characters was not
believable. And the sub-plots were contrived. I knew immediately that
Dreyfuss had lost his wife, and I even got the plot that he would not
only be the one who makes our heroine See the Day, but will have some
minor disaster strike him. Please. This could have been SO much more.
