
I have to start by saying that I am not a huge fan of "chick flicks"
but I actually really liked this one! I thought this had a lot of humor
and it wasn't really cheesy humor, it was actually funny.

I saw this at a screening for theater managers and at first I wasn't
even going to go. I wasn't expecting much from it, it just looked like
another rip off of a hundred other romantic comedies. I was very
surprised that that I liked it the entire way through and it kept my
interest the whole time! Although I enjoyed the movie, it was not an
original idea. The one thing I did really enjoy about it was that this
wasn't a sad girl trying to get the guy like many other movies like
this are, it was shown through the guy's perspective which isn't quite
as over done.

I won't give out any details you don't already see in the trailer for
the movie: Patrick Dempsy's character is great with women and his best
friend is a successful intelligent woman. She goes to Scotland on
business and Patrick's character realizes he has actually fallen in
love with her now that shes gone. She comes back and he is ready to
profess his love but there's one problem: she met someone else and is
getting married! So now he is her "maid of honor" and has to try and
stop the wedding. Like I said, not really an original idea but it is
MUCH funnier and more interesting than most of the romantic comedies I
have seen. Especially with him being maid of honor, its really
hilarious.

If you are looking for an original movie that hasn't been done before
then this is not for you. But if you enjoy romantic comedies and want a
good laugh this one is definitely worth seeing. I watched it in a group
of about half and half for men and woman and 90% of the people I talked
to enjoyed it. I would see it again and I would definitely recommend it
to anyone, even if you don't like "chick flicks"!
<|_=00=_|>
I have stated before how much I hate romantic comedies, at least the
one's that are the same concept over and over again, just different
actors, but I had a chance to see Made of Honor for free today and I
figured, why not? I mean, the thing is that you really have to give
movies a chance, sometimes, you never know, your doubts are put behind
you and you find yourself enjoying the movie. I mean, I love Patrick
Dempsey and Michelle Monaghan, both great actors and are a lot of fun
to watch on screen. So together it seemed like this movie might have
stood a chance, but unfortunately once again, this is the exact same
movie that we've seen five million times. I know that to people who
haven't seen the romantic comedy genre, this is new, but Hollywood is
just running out of idea's sadly. This story is no different from any
other romantic comedy we've seen.

Tom and Hannah have been best friends since college, Tom is the player
who has had every girl, except Hannah. She has feelings for him, but
hides it and he doesn't notice, but when she goes to Scotland for work,
he realizes how much she means to him out of no where. Hannah comes
back, but she's got a new thing going on, she's engaged, and Tom's plan
to tell her how he feels is now ruined when she asks him to be her maid
of honor. But Tom figures that he has a good chance to point out that
she doesn't know her fiancée that well and that her and Tom "truely"
belong together.

The thing is, you can predict every moment before you know it's going
to happen, it's sad when you could write a similar script, and just put
different actors in it, there is a good chance that people will fall
for it, at least it's good to have that kind of chance at making money.
Made of Honor isn't the most horrible movie by any means, it had good
intentions, but I would recommend if you really want to see it, just
wait for the rental. As cute as Patrick and Michelle are, the chemistry
is off and the script is just amateur. You've seen this movie five
million times, believe me if you're into the romantic comedy genre.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I'm literally amazed at the load of horse dung that comes out
of Hollywood. This movie is no exception. This was clearly a formula
movie, something produced to generate revenue and nothing else. I'm
guessing someone in Hollywood was sitting around, trying to come up
with new angles on old spins, and they blurted out, "Let's make a man
the Made of Honor." Then they wrote a dry, bland, done a thousand times
before script. The sad thing is, people actually pay to go see this
stuff. Don't waste your time.

The acting is ho hum. The storyline is a mirror of so many other
stories. And the overall intelligence of the characters and their life
path decisions is insulting. And the endingwell, it's pure fantasy.
Something only school girls' dream of. Which is probably the target
audience for this movie.

When I watch movies like this, and yes, unfortunately, sometimes I do,
it makes me wish they would have just donated the money to the homeless
or the starving. It would have been money better spent. If you're going
to watch this movie, get ready to do some serious snoozing. And maybe
some "dejavuing" too. I give it a D. And that was being nice.
<|_=00=_|>
man, i really enjoyed this movie, but then i tend to enjoy movies where
actors phone in their performances. have you ever seen anyone look as
bored as sydney pollack? how 'bout the scene where he repeatedly calls
bogart a "pussy." such energy. you can tell he really wanted to say
those lines.

also, i like how the way they get you to sympathize with tom is by
showing him petting dogs. oh, you missed it the first time? don't
worry, they use the same scene about fifty times throughout the course
of the movie. it warmed my icey heart.

i also liked the relationship tom had with his male friends. being a
man, i felt it was an incredibly realistic portrayal of male bonding
and the kinds of friendships i have with guys. again, totally
believable. it honestly felt as though all the male characters were
actually ONE CHARACTER with their dialogue divided into four different
speaking roles. because they all had exactly the same personality.

how 'bout that one guy, dennis? man, he is such a dude. such a
stone-cold, rugged, savage dude. "i'm gonna go to a strip club and eat
some meat, then get into a fight." way to tell it to 'em, dennis.

i also like how after tom and hannah got into a fight, all was resolved
24 hours later and they never mentioned it again. yep.

i think sydney pollack summed up this movie with one word (culled from
the aforementioned, destined-to-be-a-classic "pussy" scene): "crap."
but say it with extremely low energy, 'cause that's all this movie
deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, after 10 minutes of "Made of Honor" it is crystal clear that best
friends Tom (Patrick Dempsey) and Hannah (Michelle Monaghan) are madly
in love with each other, and should be together. Tom and Hannah are
beautiful and good people, but apparently not smart enough to figure
this out now. So we have to wait it out for the next couple hours. Yes,
this is formulaic romantic comedy, and taxing one's patience. Further
complicating our pain, the fleet of writersAdam Sztykiel, Deborah
Kaplan, and Harry Elfont, depict Tom and Hannah literally on paper as
smart, charming, and engaging, except for this glaring blind spot.
However, despite the narrative devices and clumsy direction from Paul
Weiland, I was enrolled by a scene with Michelle Monaghan. As Hannah,
Monaghan looks wistfully at photos of her and Tom on her cell phone.
She resonates with a sense of sadness and regret. Later Dempsey as the
clued in Tom implores Hannah, "Please don't marry him" 

A lot of "Made of Honor" is over wrought and contrived; however,
Dempsey and Monaghan's charm make you wait it out. Dempsey is the
handsome engaging player lug-head, who underneath it all has a good
heart. Michelle Monaghan is radiantly beautiful, funny, and smart. She
is a younger Sandra Bullock. Monaghan is humorously vulnerable as
Hannah, who is smart in settling for a relationship, because she fears
she can't have what she really deserves. Monaghan is amazing.

We find that Tom and Hannah (Dempsey and Monaghan) became best friends
as a result of Tom's college high jinx. Today Tom is very wealthy as a
result of an idea he had for a cup holder sleeve. Hannah is the
passionate art curator for the museum. Tom and Hannah are best friends
with killer chemistry. Hannah is Tom's go to date for his father Thomas
Sr.'s (funny Sydney Pollack) numerous weddings. The count is up to 6.
Even Thomas jokes to Tom, if Tom doesn't marry Hannah, he'll make her
number 7. Hannah, being Tom's tolerant and patient best bud accepts
Tom's one night stands with hot women. She is even versed in his rules
for sleeping with the same woman on consecutive nights. Tom also has
his buddies, including solid Felix (Kadeem Hardison), with whom he
plays basketball. Tom seems to have the perfect life. Then following
Tom's father's wedding reception, Hannah tells Tom that she has to go
to Scotland for 6 weeks on business. Tom facetiously says, "What am I
going to do without you?" 

During her absence, Tom starts to get a clue about Hannah-- being the
one. So he decides to tell Hannah, that they should be together when
she returns. However, Hannah returns with great news: She has fallen in
love and is getting married in 2 weeks in Scotland. The guy is Colin
(dashing and charming Kevin McKidd), who is a Scottish Duke and
apparently the perfect guy. Really. Tom and his crew later get a
glimpse of this at a ridiculous pick up basketball game experience.
Anyway, Hannah asks Tom to be her Maid of Honor. Tom accepts. His bud
Felix reminds him that he can "steal the bride" from inside the
wedding. Predictably the rest of the Brides Maids are annoyed with Tom,
particularly Maid of Honor runner-up cousin Melissa (angry Busy
Philipps), who Tom slept with once.

For the most part "Made of Honor" is by the numbers romantic comedy. It
does manage a touching turn, because we really want to know why Hannah
ends up choosing Colin. It is transparent to us that Colin is the
perfect guy, but he is not the perfect guy for Hannah. Fortunately,
Dempsey and Monaghan's charm and chemistry for the most part wins over
"Maid of Honor". Sydney Pollack provides welcome comic relief and staid
fatherly advice. Kathleen Quilan is great in the supporting role of
Hannah's mother Joan. Too bad she doesn't have a bigger role. But she
has a moving moment with Monaghan as Mom talks about Hannah's late
father.

"Made of Honor" is enjoyable for what it is: cookie cutter romantic
comedy. We can suspend our disbelief, because Dempsey and Monaghan are
great together.
<|_=00=_|>
So just why is it that we are meant to side with this ridiculous
American jerk? This is the guy who apparently has the looks and
charisma to have a neverending stream of the kind of gorgeous women
most of us can only dream of, yet he treats them like dirt. Just what
his lifelong pal Hannah is doing wasting her time hanging out with him,
heaven only knows, and finally she meets a decent Scottish man, Colin,
and they're going to get married. Good on her is what you should think,
yet this film steers you around into thinking that the womaniser jerk
is the one she should have been with. He may shag around, but hey, he
strokes dogs. Off they go to Scotland, but not the real Scotland, but
the stereotypical one in which the people speak Scots, toss cabers,
live in castles and generally everything is a bit scary and weird. A
couple of cheap shots suddenly make us feel that perhaps Colin isn't
quite the Mr Right we were led to believe (the cake bit was just plain
corny, and though I am no fan of hunting, at least Colin's meat is won
naturally and not factory farmed), and along comes our womanising pal
to walk straight into their wedding and declare his undying love for
Hannah. I mean what is it with these romantic movies and people walking
in on other people's weddings and declaring their love for one of the
supposedly happy couple. Is that the kind of thing we should be
encouraging? Coz I know I wouldn't appreciate it too much if it was my
weddding. Yer man had his chance and he blew it, tough s**t, and should
never go ruining a supposed friend's wedding with his fit of jealousy.
I was so much hoping that Hannah would tell him to p*ss off there and
then, but sadly that's not the kind of ending Americans can deal with,
and so we get the clichéd happily ever after nonsense. At least Colin
managed to get one punch in - he should have killed the guy. It's just
so annoying. The guy is a complete and utter pillock, and basically
this film is an insult to all of us guys in the world who actually do
know how to care about the women we are with, and who don't just bed as
many as we can for the sake of... well for the sake of what I'm not
really sure. I'm not sure what kind of values this film is trying to
portray, but it's got it all wrong. The only thing I can see is that
regardless how much of a scumbag you are, if you are American, you are
still going to be a better partner for anybody than a Scot. I just
found it irritating, sadly the girlfriend thought it was hilarious and
immediately made us sit through it all over again.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed Made of Honor. Often cute, quite engaging, the characters are
likable, the story well-paced. There is no real bad-guy, the 'villain'
is the Dempsey character's lack of self-respect, his shallow
manipulation of sexual intimacies, and his failure to understand
himself - or his devotion to his long-time friend.

I noticed that once the notion occurs to Tom, during Hannah's trip to
Scotland, that he is in love - he stops playing around. Not 'saving
himself', he is no longer interested in the no-attachment, free sex
lifestyle. He develops a conscience, he focuses his energy on the
object of the first girl he ever loved.

There are numerous places that show Tom turning from shallow player to
being devoted and in love. His attempts to sabotage the planned wedding
and regain the girl he loves are half-hearted - he knows who he has
been, and wants the best for Hannah. The guy threatening his love by
wanting to marry Hannah - we come to know Colin as a responsible adult,
a good prospect and a good man. Perhaps a bit colorless, as seen from
the point of view of the two friends, but no worse than that.

So I admire the morals of the picture, and the emotional growth of the
characters. And yet ..

It strikes me that this is a rehash of Dempsey's 'Loverboy' film. Again
we see Dempsey engaging in apparently consensual, shallow intimate
relationships, to win the girl of his heart. I expected cameos from
Kate Jackson and Tia Carrera at any time. And the similarities
distracted me a bit.

But Made of Honor is better schlock than Loverboy was. And more recent.
And has a horse.
<|_=00=_|>
Another romantic comedy more. There isn't much to say about this movie,
in fact is not boring and the performances of Dempsey and Monaghan meet
the required level to make tolerable they as a couple, but the film
falls into a number of same places that we watched in other movies
thats why Made of honor lost among so many films of the genre and at
the end of it nothing new provides.

Neither idea is the most original or the jokes the most successful, in
fact the plot falls on an abuse of sexual humor that at times results
unnecessary and it only is used to start a laughter of a story that had
no where to find the funny. In fact the film is the perfect movie to
spend a Sunday at home with a popcorn's bag and let the brain rest from
the pressures of the week. The film is simple, from start to finish,
and that is his greatest success because it doesn't pretend to be what
it isn't. It's only entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of the gate Made of Honor is pretty standard, with it's cliché
characters and dialog. We have Patrick Dempsey's character, a
womanizing playboy type who's best friend is Michelle Monaghan, a
lovable and pretty friend who "accepts" Dempsey's character. Michelle
Monaghan's character is out of town for a few weeks, and during this
time Dempsey's character has a personal reflection period, in which he
realizes he cares for Monaghan's character more than he thought, he
wants to be with her. So she's back in town and they meet for dinner.
Here's the kicker, it's so she can introduce Dempsey's character to her
fiancé. When it comes down to it, she asks him to be her made of honor.

Now the plot is not really new, just a gender reversal of "My Best
Friend's Wedding" but it's charming. The chemistry between the film's
two leads is great and is the saving grace, as you really do see why
Dempsey's character is fighting for. Not much else about the movie is
that new, the direction is on par with the given genre, the acting is
on par with the genre, and most of the jokes are that of the genre.
That being said the movie isn't bad, but you certainly aren't going to
walk away with the feeling you'd get from classics like "When Harry met
Sally".

Not bad but, a charming On Par addition to the Romantic Comedy genre.

a modest 5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
The cinemas haven't brought out the expected "hot summer films" yet, so
I went to this one. Yes, it's a girlie film, but sometimes those can be
enjoyable. This one had its bright spots. The female lead, Michelle
Monaghan, was terrific. It's not just that she's pretty, but she has a
nice solid vibe that makes her appealing, too. A man could imagine that
character as someone good to know. Jack Dempsey has his abilities,
too--- but his character here was less than attractive.

Either the plot was so implausible that it was hard to buy into it and
take it seriously, or the Dempsey character himself was written as such
a jerk that I had no patience for him, and no sympathy. I was cheering
for his romantic rival, the Scotsman! He seemed to be of better
character, nicer, more interesting, and NOT a complete jackass.

I was disappointed toward the end when the film makers turned the
Scottish family, lovely people and much more interesting than the
Dempsey character and his family, into a mild sort of "bad guy." It
felt oh-so-contrived, and unnecessary. It rang a false note.

So, "Made of Honor" swings and misses. Maybe such "wedding" movies and
romantic "shaggy dog" stories can never be better than this. But I
swear I have seen some that not only worked better, but were actually
very entertaining. This one tried, and wasn't awful; but again, I
really disliked the male lead, and the film makers obviously wanted us
to feel the opposite way. But they failed.
