
I don't care how interesting the scenery is if you know the entire
story arc in the first 45 seconds - and you haven't even watched the
trailer. Nic Cage looks like a corpse and his acting isn't much better.
The relationship that the film puts forward is as believable as a love
affair between a squirrel and a stuffed alligator. Plus of course the
story has Cage break every rule he says is important - but never offer
a plausible motivation. Maybe the original was really something, but
this version is dead on arrival and should be saved for the second DVD
in a video night, when you want everyone to leave your house and let
you get some sleep.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it my imagination or has Nicholas Cage been involved in a lot of
B-type films the past decade? I pretty much enjoyed this movie, don't
get me wrong - but it's still not what you'd call a classy movie, not
the kind of film he'd be involved with years ago. Now, he seems to
prefer playing total wackos in stories that don't have a lot of
credibility. 

Here, he's a Joe The Hit-man in Thailand, who falls for Miss Wholesome,
and then turns "Rambo" by killing 50 people while en route to saving
his protégé. The only thing not a cliché was the ending; that was a bit
of a shocker.

Shahkrit Yamnarm costars as "Kong," a man who becomes "Joe's" student.
He's the one Joe saves. Charlie Yeung, a winsome Hong Kong actress who
is almost 35 years of age but could pass for 21, plays Joe's love
interest. Get this: she's a pharmacist, beautiful and wholesome as they
come, and a deaf-mute! Yet, sleazy Joe sweeps her off her feet in no
time! 

Man, you have to really enjoy the stylish visuals and sound (which ARE
very good), the pretty good.....and leave it at that, to enjoy this
movie. It's better to just watch it with your brain on hold and enjoy
it, because if you start thinking about it, the film gets dumb and
dumber.
<|_=00=_|>
This is about an assassin called Joe who decides to end his career
after his next trip abroad. The next trip is to (you'll never guess)
Bangkok, where he has 4 people to kill, and he hires a young crook to
work for him. However, Joe begins to break his own rules as he begins
to see something of himself in the crook and falls in love with a deaf
chemist.

I feel sorry for Nicolas Cage. He is possibly the biggest victim of
typecasting in Hollywood, and he does his best with the roles he is
given but the odd film slips through the net, and sadly Bangkok
Dangerous is one of them. Nic is distinctly average in this and the
performances of the supporting cast aren't much better with the notable
exception of Charlie Yeung, who delivers a fine performance as the love
interest.

This film isn't awful, it just suffers from an average and completely
unoriginal script. This is Action Movie 101, and unlike some movies it
doesn't get away with it by glossing over the cracks with special
effects, like Wanted. Like Wanted, I successfully predicted the entire
plot straight after Nic's opening monologue. Some scenes were very
good, some very bad, the scale is balanced. The movie is like Marmite,
you'll either love it or hate it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Bangkok Dangerous" isn't a bad film  or at least not as bad as most
of the reviews around here claim  but it is an astonishingly ordinary
film that features literally every cliché of "hired assassin" concept
you can possibly think of. There's the lonely and super-skilled hit man
who intents to pull of one last job before quitting the business for
good, he teaches his errand boy to become his successor, finds love and
happiness with a girl for the first time and  last but not least 
refuses to make the final hit because his target is a noble individual.
We know this is the prototypic pitch of every thriller in its type, yet
we still pay the full price of a cinema ticket because the film stars
Nicolas Cage and we'll probably see a lot of spectacular action and
virulent gunfire. "Bangkok Dangerous" is a big-budgeted remake of a
Thai thriller released in 1999, which was also directed by the Pang
brothers. In the original, the hit man was a deaf-mute but since
Nicolas Cage is far too expensive to have him shut up the whole time,
they made his love interest a deaf-mute instead. Unfortunately, this
takes away the one truly ingenious aspect about the original. What
remains is a painfully predictable and bland thriller that can't even
be saved by the handful of impressively staged action sequences. Still
I wouldn't call "Bangkok Dangerous" a complete waste of time, though,
as there are a couple of stylish and worthwhile  albeit less obvious 
elements working in its favor. Nic Cage gives a good performance as the
unworldly killer and particularly the Pang Bros' depiction of the city
of Bangkok is deeply enchanting. Especially at night it looks like a
melancholic and depressing place infested with prostitution, petty
crimes and perverted tourists. The moody soundtrack emphasizes the
atmosphere of melancholy even more. This is definitely not a film
that'll increase the tourist business there. Otherwise there's very
little to say about "Bangkok Dangerous". If you're a fan of Nicolas
Cage and rough action, you won't regret giving this one a look. Just
realize you'll have completely forgotten about it the next day.
<|_=00=_|>
It wasn't bad. Nicholas Cage looked really fat and tired, not his
usually fit and tired self, and he played the cold assassin part with
ease. But when it went into the 'shy in love assassination teacher that
cares about his student and doesn't kill the good guys' part, it kind
of felt rushed. I am sure you can see the problem here.

Basically it is a film about a man that rediscovers his soul... then
dies from it. Not a fresh thing in Asian movies, but something that the
(re)makers of this film bet the Americans will find cool. I, myself,
understood the idea, but saw no reason in remaking the Thai movie that
had the same idea and add almost nothing to it other than production
costs.

Bottom line: sad-good-assassin story, with no twist. If you like stuff
like that, watch it. Better than Hell Rider, anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
A mysterious professional assassin, who called himself Joe
(Oscar-Winner:Nicolas Cage) goes to Bangkok to do his last job. His
mission is to kill four strangers by killing one at the time. Joe
becomes tired of his so-called profession, he teaches a curious young
man (Shankrit Yamhnam) to trained as a killer. Meanwhile, Joe falls in
love with a lovely young woman (Charlie Yeung), who's deaf-mute. But
the people, who hired Joe tries to double-cross him by trying to find
his identity and kill him, once Joe's last hit is too risky to handle.
Joe takes his skills and decide to use it by the people, who hired him
for the work.

Directed by the Pang Brothers (The Messengers) made an lively
action-thriller with some good scenes and excellent locations. Cage is
fine in this movie but Yamhnam and Yeung have the better moments in the
film. Actually the Pang Brothers remade their own film with a bigger
budget, American lead actor and changing a few plot points from the
original 1999 version. Plenty of film critics hated this remake but
isn't as bad as what they say about it.

The DVD Special Edition is from the two-disc set. Disc one has an sharp
anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1
Surround Sound. The DVD includes two featurettes, an interesting
alternative ending and the original theatrical trailer. Disc two is the
digital copy of the movie. "Bangkok Dangerous" isn't a great flick but
it's fairly fast paced with some stylishly photography action sequences
and a few good moments. Fans of the filmmakers work and fans of action
movies will enjoy it. (*** 1/2 out of *****).
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, for those of you seeking an incredibly deep and
intriguing story line, this movie is not for you! This is a movie for
people who just want to see some good solid action and good
entertainment.

When i first saw the grade on IMDb i was a bit skeptical, but after
seeing the movie i was quite satisfied with it.

Sure, it is quite predictable and the acting is not ground breaking.
But the lasting action was quite entertaining for me.

The biggest flaw of this movie is probably the story line. Some parts
of the story are rather rushed without telling background information.
Sometimes the story feels a bit rushed with more focus on the action
than the actual reason for an event to happen. Some parts of the movie
feel a bit overdone and unnecessary making the main character look
quite dumb...

I find this movie worth a 6,4 (i did not want to give it a 6 because i
do find it deserves higher than a 6, this explains the 7 star rating)
<|_=00=_|>
This story deals with an American hit-man (Nicolas Cage, also producer)
in Thailand , he kills his victims with no remorse . The drug addict
murderer forms a relationship with a young man (pleasant Shahkrit
Yamnarm) , as he teaches his craft to Thai hustler . Meanwhile , the
killer falls in love with a deaf-mute (in the first version this
handicap is borne by the murderous) pharmacist (enjoyable Charlie
Young) and he shares brief moments of happiness .

This detailed study about an assassin and a youth he trains is an
exciting movie with a great visual style . It concerns about murders ,
vengeance , a love story and this one delivers it well . The picture
reworks many familiar issues , as a double-crossed hit-man falling in
love . The rate of events blending drama and action are enhanced by
extended length of the hunting scenes and occasional flashes of
brilliance . There takes place a great deal of killing with some
creative moments wrought from heavy stylistics and in a John Woo style
. It succeeds in building intrigue , tension and nice performances ,
thanks to the affecting acting of the girl who plays the deaf and mute
, she's frankly marvelous . The characters are well portrayed and they
are persons for who the viewer has feeling and compassion . Worth it
for the terse script and twists ending .

Furthermore , colorful and granulated cinematography by Decha Srimantra
, Pang brothers' usual . Atmospheric musical score fitting well to
action by Brian Tyler (author of notorious soundtracks from Rambo 4,
Constantine , War , among others). The motion picture is professionally
directed by Pang brothers (Messengers , Re-cycle , The eye), shooting
during Thailand coup d'etat . Directors , Danny and Oxide Chun Pang did
a cool but uneven work in making this violent story .
<|_=00=_|>
So what if I can predict what is going to happens, I can do it with
most films nowadays - its not about that. Its about making a movie that
entertains, and IMHO they have achieved that.

OK, some of the shooting sequences were a bit dodgy and the narration
descended into the cliché on occasions but overall I rate this film
better then most action films I have seen in recent months.

Cage is solid in his role and so is his side kick. The elephant did a
good job too but his role was only in 2 scenes :) So all in all 7 is my
vote and it could have been better if not for a few lines of monologue
and a couple of silly shootouts across water canisters. 

Watch it and make your own mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Bangkok Dangerous comes to viewers who approach it on DVD with a
stigma. Matter of fact, it just kind of came and went when it played in
theaters for a few weeks in September of 2008, around that time (i.e.
Labor Day weekend) when few movies really do well with audiences or
critics. It looks like it will be garbage just from the video cover: a
half interested Nicolas Cage in damn-ridiculous hair (basically a
Muppet called and wants its body back), and with a premise that sounds
just like it is, a remake of an action movie from years back. But going
into the movie my expectations were altered within some minutes. The
initial thought was 'well, this will just be another hackneyed,
predictable action movie in the Asian setting of Bangkok and stuck with
what I call 'genericitis, which means a movie suffers from its
perpetual sense of the usual... and in ways the movie is that.

It also surprised me with a few things, and it actually made me take
the movie seriously as an actual piece of work as opposed to something
to deride with teeth gnashed like Ghost Rider. Nicolas Cage is trying
for something a little different here. At first, yes, it may look like
he's bored, or wooden, or both in the character of "Joe" the hit-man
who has his four rules and, naturally, breaks at least a few of them
during the run time of the movie in Bangkok (i.e. be anonymous, don't
make connections with people you don't know, and know when to quit),
but this gives way to something else. He's trying for nuance and
observation, of being subtle in a role that should call for it (albeit
Joe isn't a terribly interesting person save for his detachment). While
he's definitely no Alain Delon when it comes to playing cold killer who
may have a couple of portions of humanity in him, I actually did find
myself being drawn into the character just based on Cage's projection
of this detachment as a means to hide himself away from people. And for
good reason, since he's not a "people person" really.

That is until Joe meets 'Kong', who is a guy he hires for work but then
takes on as his pupil (as the narration dutifully and unnecessarily
tells us, because he sees something in Kong), and then also a romantic
interest in a deaf-mute girl who works at a pharmacy. The latter scenes
especially were touching because of it becoming a kind of silent movie,
perhaps by default, when the two of them were together, and there's a
rather sad, painful scene later on in the film between the two that is
shockingly good and believable. I even liked the actors who played Kong
and the girl, and how their characters unfolded in the story, limited
as they might be... and yet, that old bastard cliché and convention
kept coming back, more-so into the action scenes and set-pieces;
whenever a chase happens in the film (save for one moment involving an
arm dismemberment) you can zone out and not miss much. The editing is
that kind of fast- kinetic style where you can barely take in a shot
before it goes whizzing by. There's also some scenes that are ludicrous
that are taken dead-serious, such as when Cage's Joe practically has
gills and drowns a man underwater without any trouble.

It's really a matter of the plot just not giving anything much for the
characters or actors to do. And yet there is a misconception that
becomes apparent; this is much more about the characters than the plot,
at least for a while, and when it sticks to that the Pang brothers
sense of cinematic style, of the love of dirty Bangkok and elephants,
works and is enjoyable. When the story comes back though, particularly
in the last twenty minutes when Joe makes a fatal choice, it turns into
something else - something frustratingly forgettable. For a short while
there is hope, which is nice, until it reverts to what the expectation
foretold. It's truly a mixed-bag, but far from the failure that was
projected by the reviews and audience reaction... Oh, and of course,
try not to look at Cage's hair. The bad jokes would never end. 5.5/10
