
This film is about James Bond cracking down a multi-national
corporation that works with dictators to get a share of precious
natural resources.

"Quantum Of Solace" has an impressive opening sequence. It has high
speed car chases with lots of collision and gunshots. The ultra short
scenes (all under one second each) and the shaky camera gives urgency
and thrill, but it is so hard to actually work out what is happening.

There is a lot of action and adrenaline in the film, but the plot seems
not to have a focus. Nor does it make sense either, as it feels like an
all-action-no-information film. All Bond does is to run around the
globe after his target, and viewers are left to wonder how he made it.
I don't find myself caring for the plot or the characters. I don't know
why this happens, but something is not right with the film and I don't
know what.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review in IMDb (my first port-of-call for movie
opinions) and unfortunately it's simply a reaction to what has been,
this morning, a disappointing experience.

Unlike Casino Royale, which was as direct as a bullet from a gun, QoS
spends a sizeable chunk of it's running time meandering aimlessly.

Firstly though, the intro car chase is in the style of an agitated,
edit-obsessed director which means the entire scene is viewed in short
random bursts from a multitude of angles - Fine, if that's your bag.

What follows is a series of action set pieces which are at turns
exciting, manic and messy, but after which the film becomes flat and a
little direction-less. That's not to say that there is little in the
way of bullets and babes but the simple facts are that the set pieces
are really not very exciting, and worse still the characters are pretty
bland, in comparison to those in Casino Royale.

You'll struggle to think of a main bond villain that is less
interesting than Dominic Greene, and agent Fields is utterly pointless
in every aspect other than brief eye-candy.

As is mentioned in other reviews it is Judy Dench and Daniel Craig that
keep this movie from leaving the tracks entirely but it doesn't bode
well for future outings if this is to be the new template.

In short Casino Royale rejuvenated the franchise but Quantum Of Solace
has gone some way to spoiling it's success.

The theme song isn't too good either, and just like the film it gets a
tad messy at times. Get Chris Cornell back for the next one.
<|_=00=_|>
This film could have been so good, but Marc Forster's clich√©d and
ham-fisted direction completely ruined it for me. To be fair, his
handling of the quieter moments between the action was adequate, but he
clearly has no grasp of how direct action sequences, which are clearly
central to any good Bond. I'm afraid the 'shake the camera and cut at
least once a second' school of action direction doesn't really cut it.

It's tragic really, as the setup and the stunts for the sequences
looked pretty promising, but you had to look pretty hard to tell once
Mr. Forster's hopeless direction kicked in. Such a waste.

I think I'll hold out for the special edition DVD - you know - the
non-directors cut!
<|_=00=_|>
After the critically acclaimed and much successful 'Casino Royale' I
had hopes that 'Quantum of Solace' could rival this years best movie so
far: 'The Dark Knight'. Well... it doesn't even come close.

There use to be a time when Bond movies where trendsetting...

I remember when director Doug Liman some time ago said he wanted to
make "Bond for a new generation" - so he dug up Jason Bourne. Several
received Oscars and years later, we now have the Bond franchise
mimicking the Bourne franchise instead. How ironic. If you are a Bond
fan like me, and - when the endcredits roll - think to yourself that
the movie you just saw had more in common with the last two
Bourne-movies, than the first 21 Bond-movies, then you know there's a
problem! 

On paper Quantum of Solace may be a Bond movie. But many of those
things that people use to associate with Bond movies are gone. Some for
no obvious purpose or reason.

It wasn't enough for them to take away Moneypenny, Q, the gadgets, the
humor and witticism, his "shaken, not stirred", the line "my name is
Bond, James Bond." They even ditched the famous opening
gunbarrel-sequence, and you won't hear the James Bond theme right until
the very end (as in Casino Royale which - besides being 40 minutes
longer - "felt" more like a Bond movie)

And what's up with this new style of filming and editing?

Well, they hired the editor, the stuntteam and 2nd unit director of...
yes, you guessed it - the Bourne movies. So do not under any
circumstance buy tickets for the first 10 rows - you will regret it. I
was sitting in the 15th row at an advance fan-screening and even there
I would be reaching for my seasickness-pills if I had any.

Because with this annoying new MTV-style editing (which is suppose to
add "realism") known from the Bourne-movies with shaking hand-held
cameras in which you have a hard time following what really is
happening on screen, especially in a crowded surrounding, you will be
better off sitting as far back as possible in the theatre. Luckily this
style is - unlike Bourne 2 and 3 - not incorporated into every single
scene in Quantum of Solace. Far from it. But it's there, and it's very
annoying, in my opinion. It actually ruined much of the first two
action set-pieces for me, and by then we were only 30 minutes into the
movie.

Quantum of Solace is very fastpaced, like a Bourne/Bond-movie should
be. We jump from location to location, actionsequence to
actionsequence. It can be very confusing watching Bond on a rampage
still dealing with "personal issues" (like Bourne). Bourne Ultimatum
had a rooftop-chase. So does Quantum of Solace. Bourne Ultimatum had a
fistfight in a small cluttered apartment filmed the way I mentioned
earlier. Well, so does Quantum of Solace. How original!

It's like they took some of the best parts of the two last Bournemovies
and said "let's do almost the exact same thing and add something more,
like letting him fly a plane." So Bond does that, in what I think is
the second-best part of the movie. The best part for me, was oddly
enough not an actionsequence, but when Bond for once does some real
spywork on a floating operastage accompanied by a great music score.
Very Bondian. 

For this, for Dennis Gassners terrific production design, for David
Arnolds usual great score and for Craigs cool performance, I give it
six stars. 

A note to the producers of the Bond movies: Now that you played around
with Bourne, can we have 007 back for Bond 23, please?
<|_=00=_|>
Thought this was one of the worst Bond movies ever. Nothing of the
magic that made many of the other 007 movies so special was to be found
here. The cutting of the film is terrible. masses of 2 second sequences
thrown together - for no apparent reason. (as the movie is so boring I
found myself counting "one...two...) over and over again. If the action
is poor it appears a cheap trick to try to "create interest" by
chopping it all up and using 25 cameras to shoot that which has no
interest. It just comes across as irritating and silly.

The car chase sequence in the beginning might have been good, if the
filming thereof had been better. What could have been fantastic was
destroyed (again) by the poor cutting of the movie. masses of sub
second fractions thrown together making everyone confused as to who was
being chased, who crashed etc.

The race scene in Siena was utterly stupid. The cut back and forth from
the Bond action to the race action again and again was utterly
unrelated and therefore pointless. 

The scene in the movie were Bond discovers the underground lake and
states "he is draining all the water" as an explanation to the central
"badness" that the villain is about to do is utterly laughable and
silly. 

The end scenes with the building which is designed to explode step by
step was the last straw. I have rarely seen anything more staged and
unbelievable. I considered leaving a few times as the movie was so
boring but then I thought that "can it get any worse"? and yes, it
could and did.

We want James Bond 007 back again, lets pass this "experiment" into
history and forget that it ever happened. 

The previous movie Casino Royale was a good action movie, though it
wasn't a Bon movie (either). The Jason Bourne formula works, but Bourne
is Not Bond and this is not a Bourne movie, i don't really know how to
classify other than "utterly pointless", I couldn't see any redeeming
features, no plausbile plot, no interesting characters, no fantastic
sceneries, awful title song, no "Bond"-ness - at all
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first time I ever came out of a Bond film at the cinema
thinking, 'I enjoyed almost none of that.' And there was no mystery for
me as to why I felt this way. I didn't have to weigh up the other pros
and cons (it is not an unsophisticated film) or think far or deeply. I
couldn't stand Quantum Of Solace because ninety-five percent of its
action sequences are appallingly directed and edited. Endless, wobbly
extreme closeups are cut together too rapidly into a meaningless dirge
which prohibits you from discerning anything about the nature of the
scene.

How many cars are participating in this car chase? Will I be allowed to
glimpse anyone's face in this scene other than Bond's? Will I be
allowed to glimpse even Bond's face? Which boat is in front? Where is
anything in relation to anything else, ever? And just what was that?
That blur in front of me for the past half a second, what the hell was
it? The answers to these questions respectively throughout Quantum of
Solace are, 'I have no clue, no, no, I don't know, I will never know, I
don't know, I still don't know.'

I'm tired of reading any defence for the most extreme incarnation of
this style of action coverage. It is purposeless obfuscation. It's
anti-exciting, annoying and just plain rubbish. Bond films in
particular are known for their history of spectacular action and
stunts, and if you briefly consider any eighties Bond film, you'll
recall that somewhere in it was a long, held shot of something amazing.
People fighting on the back of an airborne plane, racing cars through
Paris or pursuing each other down a mountain on skis. Compared to any
one of those scenes, everything in Quantum is a disgrace, incapable of
engendering marvel or wonder.

Perhaps I should try to be less catastrophic about the direction of
cinema in general and just apportion blame directly to the guy from the
Bourne films whose second unit did this to Quantum, and to Marc
Forster, who directed the film, and either sanctioned or did not repel
the Bourne-on-steroids content. Call me Mister Insane, but I demand the
context, information and sense of place delivered by even the
occasional wide shot. To see how Bond kung-fu'd an elevator full of
guys would be cool, right? The event happens in this film, but what you
actually see is a camera jerking crazily over ten inch wide patches of
dark clothing, to the accompaniment of cabbages being walloped on the
soundtrack. Imagine if Bruce Lee tried to get away with this crap. And
this wasn't a well considered case of indicating what had just happened
by offering the impression of it rather than the depiction of it, it
was simply a continuation of the house style.

Quantum Of Solace takes anti-illuminating film-making to new, stupid
lows!
<|_=00=_|>
When Casino Royale arrived two years ago I was a very happy person. I
was one of what feels like the few people that actually wanted Craig to
do well as Bond. I wasn't moaning about him being blonde, I wasn't
moaning about the lack of gadgets, I was just happy to see one of my
favourite fictional characters back on screen. As many people know I am
a huge Bond fan, I have all the movies, I love them all in their unique
way, and even if Casino Royale had been a disaster I would have found
some enjoyment out of it. Thankfully it wasn't a disaster, it was
actually one of the best Bond movies made. Quantum of Solace is a
direct sequel of Royale, and so I once again had high expectations of
it. Perhaps even more so than with Royale, as now I knew Craig is a
superb Bond, and I wanted the story to evolve more. Let me start off by
saying Solace is not as good as Royale, and for many people that will
be a problem, as so many people were expecting an even better movie.
While it is an extremely good movie, and a brilliant Bond movie, its
just not one of the best and does have a few problems. Still as a Bond
fan I still absolutely loved nearly every minute of the movie. It isn't
overlong and outstays its welcome like Royale, but neither is it rushed
as I feared. The performances are incredibly strong once again and
there are some thrilling action sequences thrown in as well.

Daniel Craig once again is very strong as Bond, and unlike what a lot
of critics have said, is actually good fun. He can deliver a pun quite
well, and he also does the dramatic and seriousness of Bond to
perfection. In short he is definitely up there in terms of quality with
Sean Connery. He feels a bit more comfortable as Bond this time around,
he doesn't have to say the famous line which sadly felt a tad forced at
the end of Royale. Instead he does get his fair share of brooding,
although his verbal sparring with Gemma Arterton is pretty brilliant.
The lead Bond girl this time is played by Olga Kurylenko, who I last
saw in the dismal Hit-man movie. Thankfully here she plays a very
interesting, although different Bond girl. She doesn't appear much for
the first half, and her first sequence seemed more random than
interesting. However she does develop quite nicely and by the end she
is definitely one of the better Bond girls. Lead villain duties go to
Mathieu Amalric. I have to say he was a bit of a disappointment after
the brilliant Lechiffre in Royale. Amalric is a slimy villain, and he
does put in a good performance, but his villain just isn't all that
menacing, and I can see him being one of the easily forgettable Bond
baddies. Judi Dench gets an awful lot more screen time this time round,
and its all the better for it. M has been rewritten as a superb
character, and gets some nice bit of swearing to do. Finally Gemma
Arterton is fairly decent as a wasted Bond girl. She has way too little
screen time, and far too little to do, however she does shine through,
and features in one of the more memorable moments of the movie.

Quantum of Solace story wise is perhaps where the problems begin to
slip in. Royale's story was simple and very easy to follow, while
Quantum is nowhere near as confusing as people are making it out to be,
the movie is a bit overcomplicated for its own good. The villains plan
is nowhere near as diabolical as it really could be, and I feel I need
to watch the movie again just to get the intricate details of the
movie. However as most Bond fans know story is not always a Bond movies
strong point, just look at Live and Let Die, Die Another Day. So long
as it manages to entertain I am quite happy. Solace thankfully is a
brilliantly entertaining movie for the majority. I will admit, the
pre-credit sequence is a very big disappointment. I know the stunts
were good, and it should have been thrilling, but I felt so oddly bored
by it. However once the credits sequence began, to a song I am steadily
coming to like, the movie kicked off. The rest of the action sequences
were particularly well done, my personal favourite being a bit in an
opera house, extremely well edited. Drama wise the movie is very solid,
there are some lighter moments to keep people happy, and some amusing
one liners, but the movie for the most part is pretty down to earth.

Quantum of Solace as I've said is a great movie, and no doubt many
people will love it, although some will be a bit disappointed by it.
Either way Craig is still a great Bond, and I cannot wait to see more
adventures with him as the lead. Although we could do with a more
interesting villain next time round please.
<|_=00=_|>
Casion Royal left us with a glimmer of the old bond returning to out
screens. How wrong we were to be misled by this.

This was an out and out action movie. Bond has lost his charm, his wit,
his gadgets, his humanity. While I was prepared for a darker Bond, this
new bond was really just a thug with 00 license.

The story was weak and the villain was neither scary nor evil.

The action scenes were filmed in a very choppy manner which made them
hard to follow.

There was no suspense.

This was a poor sequel to Casino Royal.

The franchise needs to pull it together, or it will lose it's audience
<|_=00=_|>
Save your money. This movie is terrible and has nothing whatsoever to
do with the iconic character of James Bond.

Story: 0/10. The main plot was the worst of any Bond movie. Instead of
saving the world, Bond is saving the people of a 3rd world country a
few pennies on their water bill. Instead of fighting for the good of
the free world, Bond is on a heartless revenge killing spree, and the
free world is portrayed as almost universally corrupt. But the worst
offense is the contrived "explosive hotel" in the middle of nowhere, in
the desert. I'll bet they get a lot of tourism there! At least its made
of some kind of material that burns without a single trace of smoke...
-groan-!

Characters: 1/10. Craig is terrible as bond, he has no charisma
whatsoever. He broods for the entire film, never smiling, never
delivering that cheeky charm that Bond should. The main Bond girl is a
bundle of laughs... no wait, strike that, she's a depressing lump. The
CIA girl is actually OK (thus the 1 point) but only sticks around for
about 2 minutes before being killed. Felix, instead of being a smart,
useful, and funny friend, is a waste of screen time and contributes
nothing at all to the story. The villain does not even seem evil, just
like a corrupt businessman (FAR from the world-domination-seeking
villains of past). The deposed dictator is unbelievable and the implied
rape scene at the end should NOT be in a bond film. M is the same as
the last few Bond movies, a weak, bleeding-heart "mother" who could not
possibly have the respect of MI6 agents in the real world.

Production: 0/10. The action scenes have such short cuts that you can't
focus on any of them. The result is utter confusion about who is
punching whom. There are obvious and avoidable errors such as cutting
between two scenes and the actors have changed positions.

Franchise Loyalty: 0/10. Rename the main character and you would never
be able to guess that this is a Bond film. You would probably guess
it's a Bourne film. I don't demand the clich√©s such as "Bond, James
Bond" (though you certainly won't find that here). But I do demand that
the main character be a likable British guy showing off cool spy
gadgets and attacking problems with intelligence rather than always
brute force. There were no gadgets-not a single one!-and Bond was a
cold-blooded murderer.

This movie would be a below-average effort for a generic action flick.
But putting the name "Bond" on it debases and defiles the Bond
franchise. Those responsible for this atrocity should be ashamed of
what they've done to try to turn a quick buck on a legendary franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent movie, I won't add spoilers, but be aware, it's a sequel to
Casino Royale and is necessarily darker in tone. Bond has shut down
emotionally as a consequence of Vesper's death and is driven to
investigate and, to some extent, avenge her death.

Daniel Craig further extends his takeover of the role, he exudes a
sense of sadness with a ruthless drive to move forward with his
mission. Mention should be made of Judi Dench - she delivers another
excellent performance as M. 

Would heartily recommend watching Casino Royale on DVD beforehand if
you own it, specifically to prepare and remind yourself of the odd plot
point as they certainly will be relevant here.

Bond fans rest assured it's fantastic entertainment. It has to be
agreed that it is lacking in old-school quips and innuendo, but in my
opinion it is entirely in keeping with Bond's situation in this movie.
There are some beautiful locations though, especially in Italy and the
Aston looks great, for a little while! 

As Bond himself says, "you don't have to worry about me". I'm not
worried about the franchise and the third part of this trilogy will be
worth looking forward to.
