
"Old Dogs" is simply mind numbingly awful. It's like two hours of being
raped in the face by fart jokes. Is it funny to see Seth Green pretend
to get hit in the balls? Well then this is totally up your alley. When
people talk about how films are getting worse this is what they are
talking about. The inexplicable amount of decent ratings for this mess
of idiocy kind of explains why the publishing industry is tanking. I
refuse to admit I live in a world where those who enjoy this dreck
actually know how to read.

"Old Dogs" is an ugly artless stupid film that has been created only to
keep your kids quiet for a couple hours; although making them sit
through this should legally be on the same level as child abuse. In a
couple years we will forget this ever existed.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the movie that has me rethinking the policy of the Cultural
Lifetime Pass. If you made a record or a painting or a movie that
helped lift up the standards of culture and made the world a better
place, even for a brief moment, then I think you should get a pass if
you're forced to make dreck to put food on the table.

I was ready to give Robin Williams his pass for "Reality...What a
Concept," "Moscow on the Hudson" and "Insomnia." John Travolta had a
potential pass for "Pulp Fiction" and "Get Shorty." Seth Green gave us
"Robot Chicken." Matt Dillon, Bernie Mac, Amy Sedaris, Ann-Margaret,
for God's sake....

Ladies and gentlemen, no longer. I hereby revoke your passes.

This movie was a pile of trite, clich√©d garbage. You could have slotted
any other actors into these roles, and you would have gotten the same
result: a lot of mugging, a lot of canned reactions, and a lot of tired
nutshot jokes. This was such bland pablum that I should have walked
out, but I was dragged to this flick with family.

So, was the paycheck worth it? Probably, seeing how so many people gave
it a 10 rating and are mocking the critics who rightly called out this
turd for what it is. More and more people will pay good money to see
Seth Green get cuddled by a gorilla or watch Williams and Travolta go
through the same list of gay panic jokes (with a little racism thrown
in for extra flavor) that was excreted on screen for "Wild Hogs." Keep
polishing that turd, folks; it won't change what it is.

Don't force the ones you love to see this movie. Stay home. Read a
book. Play a board game. Do anything but see this waste of time.
Please, for the sake of the children, I beg you: do the merciful thing
and put down "Old Dogs."
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the new family comedy Old Dogs expecting not to like it.
The only reason that made me think it wasn't gonna be garbage was the
great cast, so I gave it a shot. I was surprised to say I actually sort
of liked it. The film stars Robin Williams and John Travolta as Dan and
Charlie, two businessmen and long-time best friends. One day, Dan's
ex-girlfriend, Vicki (Kelly Preston) takes him to dinner and says she's
going to jail. She tells him of how her friend's gonna to watch after
the kids and how he needs to check in on them every once in a while. To
further explain this scenario, the kids are Dan's kids. When Dan puts
Vicki's friend in the hospital, Dan is forced to watch after the kids
with a little unenthusiastic help from Charlie. If this plot sounds
bad, then you're on the same page as me. The surprise element of this
movie is that it's actually pretty damn funny. It doesn't hurt that a
great supporting cast including Lori Loughlin, Justin Long, Matt
Dillon, Seth Green, and the late Bernie Mac are in it. Obviously this
is not a perfect film, nor should it be, and it's not for everyone, but
I certainly found it funny enough. Check it out because you may feel
the exact same way I feel about this film walking out of the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
While looking for a family Thanksgiving movie, I realized I had only 2
options, this or Twilight. Since there was no way in hell I was going
to see Twilight I decided to read some review and go see this. Oh god
the reviews were awful. After seeing this film I will admit, its not
THAT bad. The acting is for the most part good, and some of the jokes
are funny.

Admittedly this joke runs way to long, and not to spoil it but the
producers could have cut at LEAST 15mins out of it, that drag the whole
movie down. Id go see it again, at least it doesn't have glittering
vampires.
<|_=00=_|>
You worked hard for your paycheck; which is a lot more than can be said
for anybody involved with this movie. Like an old dog that needs a
bath, this thing stinks something awful.

Robin Williams and John Travolta have done better. Unfortunately, in
this outing, neither delivers. It's not enough to prance into camera
view, and call that acting. To label their performances as "phoned in"
is being too generous. All they do is mug and mechanically recite
lines. "Warm and fuzzy" scenes look contrived and phony, "comical"
scenes are about as funny as having your teeth pulled out with a wrench
and no anesthesia. And no, even anesthesia won't help you endure this
movie.

The "touchy-feely" premise is this: two obnoxious swinging single
mid-life-crisis guys, are old friends and business partners. Through
some dumb circumstances (one has kids he didn't know about-so original
yecch), they wind up with two kids to care for. Idiotic? Yes. Original,
no. Interesting; definitely not. Writing is flat, the rest of the cast
is flat, the plot is flat, and the director should be banned from
making movies ever again. The story goes nowhere, and is never
involving. The characters are not likable, and the intended laughs are
as sparse as igloos in the Sahara desert. It even stoops to the old
groin injury bit: sad.

At least the title makes sense. It's all old stuff. And it's a dog.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a fun family movie. Not too taxing on the brain and plenty of
laughs. A few toilet jokes kept the kids amused and a few well placed
adult puns made me smile.

I just wish that the television trailers hadn't shown ALL the good bits
- which took away all the surprise funny bits and really just left the
mushy stuff in between to watch....

Travolta and Williams are living breathing classics and make the movie
well worth watching.

I simply can't understand the low overall rating this movie has
received up until now - it really ain't that bad....
<|_=00=_|>
Don't believe the reviews that say it stinks. It's just got a low key
vibe, and if you need a ton of clever dialogue or special effects to
keep your interest then of course you won't appreciate the subtlety of
what are portrayals of real relationships. Although the movie starts
out feeling like a bachelor gone wild party, and you don't get the
feeling that it is a family movie, it gains momentum and totally turns
into a respectable family film. My husband and I found it endearing,
well acted, hilarious in spots, and we weren't worried about watching
it with our four-year old in the room. Thoroughly enjoyable movie,
although we could have done without the first ten minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
John Travolta and Robin Williams are a great comedic duo with their
slapstick comedy throughout this movie. This movie shows what best
friends are like and what situations friends get you into. Friends will
stand by you no matter what your situation is. Never make a promise to
a kid unless you can make it happen. Even though you might have trouble
with parenting at first, you will get the hang of it and find a better
person you never knew you could become. Once you have decisions that
you have already made it's hard to go through with them when you want
something else.

It shows you real life situations of what could happen if you find out
something unexpected in your life and anyone can relate to these
situations. All of this will be shown throughout this movie which makes
it an interesting one to watch. Robin Williams has been out of the
picture for some time, but was last seen as the voice of Roosevelt in
the latest "Night at the Museum" and in "Worlds Greatest Dad." John
Travolta I had last seen as Ryder as the train hijacker on "The Taking
of Pelham 123" which is a really great action movie starring Denzel
Washington too. Both actors have come a long way and are going through
tough times in their lives.

They come out shinning in this movie made by Disney and are very funny
and fun to watch in this movie together. Also Bernie Mac has made an
appearance in this movie and it was great to see him since he will be
forever missed. This movie will have you laughing throughout and leaves
you with a great message in the ending.
<|_=00=_|>
There were no other family flicks out that my older kids would sit
through, so we decided to give Old Dogs a shot. I have to say that we
laughed very hard and enjoyed it. This is a kids/family film, and in
that context it delivers. It certainly is not a bad film. John
Travolota and Robin Williams work well together and make this film
worth seeing. I hope they have a chance to collaborate again as they
have good chemistry. There were some surprises in the plot, which is
unusual for most kid films. This film is not going to be an academy
award winner, but it certainly was not a waste of time. I expected to
be bored and found myself laughing from beginning to end. I want to
thank the producers for making a family film that is worth seeing. The
kids loved it and when that happens they develop a loyalty to the
actors and trust them to deliver again the in future. I hope that is
the case.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh My God this was the funniest movie. It kept my husband and myself
laughing through out the movie. Just good clean humor.

John's daughter and wife were terrific...I would recommend this movie
to any age group.

I had read the reviews and disagree with the negative ones. I just
don't understand how anyone could not like it. It went by fast,
certainly kept our attention and we laughed until hurt. Actually the
entire audience laughed through out the movie. All the actors were
great, they worked well with each other, and although it may have been
predictable, it was delightful
