
When I saw the trailer for this film I thought it had to be trash but I
laughed almost from the beginning to the end. Tongue in cheek humour -
it's all intentional, there is nothing unfunny about Machete.

I was ready for a lot of gore but it was all done in such a hilarious
way that I hardly noticed how disgusting it was. I fact, I was still
laughing 5 minutes after I left the cinema.

If he wasn't already so old I would say Danny Trejo was an undiscovered
talent set for a meteoric rise, but the guy is already 64. I never
could have guessed as the adrenaline and action pumped incessantly....
and hysterically this weather-beaten old dude also managed effortlessly
to bed any chiquita he came across, and in style too.

Machete kills and maims and has sex all the way through the movie, but
amazingly he is also a gentleman. you have to love him.

The best movie I have seen this year and the best movie of this genre
for some time. Top marks for not taking itself one bit seriously but
knowing exactly how to entertain!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is what it says it is. Nothing less. And perhaps a little
more. 

Most of Machete's critics that have given overall negative reviews,
have fallen into a trap of their own devices. Machete is an
exploitation film and was advertised as such. By definition, and
exploitation film will include excessive violence, gore, nudity, and be
high on intentional corny lines while low on plot devices and character
development. To give low ratings to Machete because of one's distaste
for the genre, would be like saying "The Shinning was awful because I
don't like horror." 

This is one of Rodriguez best films to date, side by side with Sin City
(2005). Machete delivers on all accounts of action, gore, nudity, and
corny lines. The plot is simple, but honestly, that's how it should be.
The thing that sets this apart from other exploitation films is that
the acting is top notch. I personally found that the three main female
characters to be the most intriguing and diverse.

Jessica Alba plays the part of an ICE agent struggling with her loyalty
to her nation and her people. She slowly begins to question her own
logic on if people should follow law simply because they are laws. We
see this struggle immediately, when she approaches a taco stand
(apparently once every week) to by a coffee and lunch, despite her own
people feeling from her site. Why does she continue this ritual? She
says it is to check the papers of the character Luz, but really it is
to try and hold onto a sliver of identity among her people. 

Michelle Rodriguez plays said Luz (aka She) as an underground leader of
illegal immigration. The character of Luz is a simple woman who
believes in not bending to the broken system, but fighting for her
people (the mirror image of Alba). "She" is only a myth on which Luz
has built a cult following, understanding that sometimes being a myth
can do more damage than flesh and blood. By the end of the film, Luz is
reborn as the mythical She, just in time for the bloody battle.

Finally, the actress that surprised me the most was Lindsay Lohan.
Despite only receiving 10-15 minutes of screen time (most are which she
is undressed), she plays her character perfectly and flawlessly. The
role seems to be written specifically for her and I applaud her for
stepping up and taking on such a mature role. One of her first scenes
is a tongue-in-cheek conversation about how she needs to give the
people of the internet what they want, and that is more of her. Lohan
played the part beautifully (in all aspects) and specks of talent are
clearly visible. I hope that filmmakers and audiences (as well as
herself) continue to allow her opportunities to showcase that talent. 

Machete is an exploitation film at its finest. And, for the most part,
if you are the type of cinema attendee who wants to see a movie called
Machete in the first place, chances are you will be thoroughly
entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught a screening of this film not too long ago, and all I have to
say is that it was an adrenaline rush! The violence was overwhelming,
and the writing was cornily witty. Pretty good performances all around
from Alba, Trejo, DeNiro, Seagal, Lohan and many a more. Great
entertainment, perfect to sit down with some buddies on a Saturday
night and have a good laugh.

No doubt in my mind this will do well in the box office, and well, not
so well with the critics. But forget what the critics say this is a
great flick, and a damn fun one too!

Plot: After being betrayed by the organization who hired him, an
ex-Federale launches a brutal rampage of revenge against his former
boss.

usualfilmfan
<|_=00=_|>
Machete is one of the funnest movies I've ever seen. Right from the
beginning you know this movie doesn't take itself seriously. It's
essentially a live-action cartoon with A-list actors. You have Danny
Trejo - the antithesis of a leading man - carrying the movie as
Machete, the unkillable badass Mexican James Bond. If you want to talk
plot, this is basically a revenge story. Steven Seagal kills his
family, then years later Machete gets caught up in a political scandal
where Robert De Niro is playing a cross between George Bush and Donald
Trump, and somehow Seagal's character is pulling the strings. It's as
amazing as it sounds. Then you have Don Johnson as the head of border
patrol or something, mowing down Mexicans all over the place, and Jeff
Fahey as one of Seagal's enforcers in Texas. Now you may be thinking,
"Four villains? This sounds more convoluted than Spiderman 3!" And
you'd have a point if this was a traditional action movie, but it's
not. At all. It's a comedy more than anything with some ridiculous
action sequences and gratuitous T&A all over the place. These
characters just serve to forward the plot, and to give us some belly
laughs, and somehow it all works beautifully.

Jessica Alba is one of the officers assigned to this scandal. Michelle
Rodriguez serves as the leader of a Mexican resistance, oh and there's
Lindsey Lohan playing Jeff Fahey's "religious" daughter. There are so
many characters and somehow they all fit the movie perfectly. All of
the acting is great (well, Alba is never "great" but she serves her
purpose and she's as hot as a supernova so who cares). But you can buy
Robert De Niro as a corrupt senator, Don Johnson as this racist
megalomaniac, Fahey as this hard-ass enforcer, and Seagal as a Mexican
drug lord. Yeah. And the best part is they're all having a blast. It's
pure mayhem going on, and you're not bored for a second. Danny Trejo as
the title character deserves much props though. He just looks like a
guy who would have a wide array of knives stashed under his vest, and
the guy is making out with some of the hottest women on the planet.
It's the role of a lifetime.

Robert Rodriguez is amazing for making this an actual movie, and the
cast are amazing for agreeing to be part of this project. It's so, so,
SO entertaining. It's damn near impossible to sit through this movie
with a straight face. I had a big fat grin throughout the whole thing.
If you like silly action movies with fantastic actors and a
surprisingly good plot, then look no further than Machete.
<|_=00=_|>
As I was in the theater watching "Machete", I could not help but see
certain scenes and keep a list in my head of people who would hate this
movie. When Machete (Danny Trejo) takes out the knife whose nickname he
bears and cuts people's heads off, "people who hate violence in movie"
made my list. When Sartana (Jessica Alba) takes a shower and leans
against the wall in a way that millions of men probably fantasized
about, "most, if not all, women" found its way onto my list. When Padre
the Roman-Catholic priest (Cheech Marin) says "God has mercy. I don't."
to a guy before blowing his brains out with a rifle, I couldn't help
but mentally pencil in two other groups of people: Catholics, and
people who hadn't seen "Grindhouse" (2007) when it came out in theaters
three years ago.

Well, I love violent action films, I think Jessica Alba is gorgeous, I
am Catholic but am not easily offended, and I was one of a surprising
few who saw the aforementioned ambitious tribute to B-movies of the
70's and 80's. Therefore, I enjoyed "Machete" a lot, but I imagine
others would have to take it with a grain of salt.

"Machete", based on a fake trailer made exclusively for "Grindhouse"
that director Robert Rodriguez decided to expand into a feature-length
film, is not meant to be taken seriously. If anything, it's a clever
film with a lot of great action sequences, intriguing characters, many
interesting subplots, and a good story at its base. For starters, it
also has an impressive roster of talented actors in it. There is an
interesting mix of the usual Rodriguez players (Danny Trejo, Cheech
Marin, Jeff Fahey), really good actors (Robert De Niro), notoriously
bad actors (Steven Seagal, Don Johnson), and talented players that have
made some bad film choices over the last few years (Jessica Alba,
Lindsay Lohan). The funny thing is that, good or bad, most of these
actors seem perfect fits for this movie, and work well off each other.

Trejo may have been an action star if he came to fame in 1970's cinema.
Nowadays, it's not unusual to see good looking celebrities like Tom
Cruise and Ryan Reynolds headline action films. Thankfully, Rodriguez,
like Quentin Tarantino (who co-produced this film, but for some reason,
remained uncredited) saw something in this 66-year-old ex-convict,
because Trejo makes a great lead for an action film. Just one look at
him, and you may want to start running. He's rugged, doesn't take any
crap from anyone, and it is what action stars should be. It's just too
bad the villains in this movie are not aware of that fact, and there
are many villains.

There's Torrez (Steven Seagal), a drug kingpin who betrayed Machete
while he was a Federale in Mexico. There's Booth (Jeff Fahey) who hires
Machete to assassinate a Republican senator (De Niro) who's staunchly
against illegal immigration. There's also a corrupt border patrolman
(Don Johnson) who kills illegal immigrants with no mercy. Although
Jessica Alba plays an INS agent, you really can't stay mad at her for
long.

Although "Death Proof" and "Planet Terror" found a separate following
on DVD, "Grindhouse", which combined the two films along with fake
previews, did not do well at the box office despite rave reviews. So
the timing may have been bad for "Machete" had it not been for the
controversial Arizona immigration law that coincidentally coincided
with this film's release. Whether or not this movie can be seen as a
Hispanic-American revenge fantasy is not up to me to decide, although
Michelle Rodriguez's turn as Luz, who is suspected of aiding illegal
immigrants, raises some interesting questions. The film does seem to
forget that it's a parody of exploitation films of years past at times,
but never ceases from being fun. Just as Rodriguez brought "Machete"
from a coming attraction to a feature film, I hope Rob Zombie does the
same for his "Werewolf Women of the SS" preview.
<|_=00=_|>
Padre Benito del Toro: It's not safe for you to be here. Machete: I'm
not looking for "safe." Padre Benito del Toro: No, I mean it's not safe
for me for you to be here!

When you can sit back and relax with a Grindhouse satire like Machete,
then you are a cinema devotee who accepts outrageous violence and a bit
of skin in a Mexploitation fun house. 

Robert Rodriguez (whose El Mariachi started his career) is the
co-writer/co-director (with Ethan Maniquis) of arguably his best
production since Sin CityMachete. Or maybe his and Quentin Tarantino's
cult fav, Grindhouse (2007). At any rate, Rodriguez has become
synonymous with outright bloody business reminiscent of cheap B movies
in the '70's, and he's the best at it.

Machete, played by Danny Trejo, is as ugly as you could hope for in an
unstoppable warrior with restless knives. He is a Mexican federale
seeking revenge for his family slaughtered by drug lord Torrez (Steven
Seagal with a bad toupee). Although the hearty laughs don't last the
whole film (after all, too many severed limbs are not sustainable
comedy), Rodriguez has other moments to keep us interested, such as a
bare-breasted Lindsey Lohan in a pool scene and in another with a
machine gun in nun's garb.

All of this fun is in the service of a message, albeit too obvious for
my tastes as it slows the latter part of the film with stagey speeches
about the crimes against illegal immigrants. The bad guys promote a
tougher border presence to deter the aliens, not because they are doing
anything immoral, but because tighter borders mean higher prices.

Machete puts an amusing end to a tepid cinema summer (with the
exception of the challenging Inception)after all, if Robert De Niro,
Jessica Alba, Jeff Fahey, Cheech Marin, and Don Johnson can have fun in
this mayhem, so can we.
<|_=00=_|>
I have a question for a lot of the positive reviewers on here: Did you
REALLY like this movie, or are you just gushing out of respect for
Rodriguez??? I'm a Rodriguez fan too, in case you didn't know.
Tarantino and Rodriguez are the kings of b-movies. They know how to
make a good b-movie and their extensive filmography has shown. With
Tarantino you have Kill Bill, Jackie Brown and Inglourious Basterds,
with Rodiriguez you have Planet Terror, From Dusk Till Dawn and the
king of all things "Visually gorgeous", Sin City. What I love about
both of them is that while their films are indeed exercises in Style
Over Substance, they're aware of it and don't take themselves too
seriously.

I still stand by Grindhouse as the most fun I've had at the theatre.
Two great movies from two fantastic directors with some hilarious fake
trailers thrown in there for the price of one. After "Hobo With A
Shotgun", "Machete" showed. I laughed so hard! And then the news broke
that Machete was going to be a full movie. I was excited.

Turns out, some fake trailers should just stay fake trailers.

As I mentioned earlier, Rodriguez's films are Style Over Substance. But
they are aware of it, and don't take themselves too seriously, and for
that, come off as awesome. Was this movie Style Over Substance? Yes.
Did it follow its "Don't take yourself too seriously" rule? Well, it
did... for the first 20 minutes.

I was liking the first 20 minutes. Even as a gore hound, I was
wondering if I should be eating during that scene! Then of course, we
get the awesome betrayal scene and the hospital scene... I especially
loved when Machete cut the man's abdomen open and used his intestine as
a rope to escape through a window. I laughed!!! Then it went downhill
from there.

First off, Jessica Alba was annoying. Take her out of the movie and it
wouldn't be different. All she does is just run around and scream the
plot out loud. The most cringe worthy scene was near the end when she
got up on the bonnet of the car and made that speech. That brought back
memories of "Robin Hood" of earlier this year (you know what scene I'm
talking about). Second, this film has too much plot in it, and too many
characters. For a movie that's supposed to be a b-flick, this movie
shouldn't be about political mumbo jumbo.

The characters are a big letdown here. Or at least the representation
of characters. Let's begin. "She" is a great character. About halfway
through the film she is killed off... then near the end she survived!!!
Or the Priest. He is a likable character too. Then he gets killed off 5
minutes after his first appearance. Or what about Daryl Sabara's
character? He's a funny guy and he has (what feels like) 30 seconds of
screen time... and yet he's one of the main actors in the opening
credits!!! Bigger yet, what about the villain? WHO'S THE VILLAIN? Is it
Segal, who has a total of 6 minutes of screen time, De Niro, or Fahey,
who easily out of the three supposed villains gets the most screen
time... except he dies 10 MINUTES BEFORE THE CLIMAX. Or Lindsay
Lohan... why is she even in there, other than the fact that she's
Fahey's character's daughter??? The climax is a total anticlimax.
There's no excitement in the battle at all, it's incredibly dull and
boring. Even the iconic bit shown in the trailer with the bike was
underwhelming. And Segal's character's death even felt copped out and
lazy.

By the time the film was done, I was so glad I was out of the theatre.
The film bored me enough with its slow pace. For a movie that claims to
be an ultra gory action b-flick, there's about 10 minutes of action, 90
minutes of boring dialogue. This is supposed to be a b-movie, not some
political crap. I like slow paced films, but not when they're supposed
to be fun b-movies.

Sorry, Mr. Rodriguez, but I think your days are numbered!
<|_=00=_|>
The big hour of Danny Trejo (Machete) has finally arrived. Yes, this is
the first movie where the ex-convict and a man who's face looks like a
Moon's landscape, is in a leading role. He does well in his role. This
is exactly what he is good at. And it is killing (bad) people. He is
doing that extremely stylish I gotta tell you. Just look at the first
scene.

Robert Rodriguez has his own earmark. This is something you know what
to expect, but you still looking forward to see, cause you wanna see
how is he doing that this time. It's called riot. A crazy rumble which
is out of control. It happens here too. And it's solid and quite fun.

This is a good entertainment. It's not for everybody. Rodriguez fans
love it, others just feel a bit entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Rodriguez strikes (out) again. Stringing together some cruel
moments of gore with lame comedy, a few bare breasts (how people can
rave about the copious nudity in this movie when there's hardly
anything on show is beside me), heavy-handed political satire which
makes his sincere message come across as racist stupidity and some of
the least exciting action scenes ever, Machete is a complete failure.
Acting performances are weak across the board, and Danny Trejo is a
frightening figure, yet he doesn't cut it (ooh, look, I made a pun) as
an interesting lead character. He doesn't have the charisma to
transcend the extreme simplicity of the character. And while I know he
could crush me with his bare hands, he certainly doesn't convince when
going up against villainous henchmen half his age. The finale is the
worst part of the film. The heroic Mexicans attack the racist American
vigilantes, and much slaughter ensues, but without any tension at all,
with extremely weak choreography and telegraphed 'cool' moments
referencing 'classic' exploitation characters which are largely
embarrassing. Nothing is quite as embarrassing as the final battle
between Trejo and Steven Seagal, though. No choreography to speak of,
shot and edited in the least effective way (I've seen better fights in
TV-series), and with an utterly lame ending, it has absolutely no
redeeming features. Except that it's short (barely one minute of screen
time). Maybe one day Rodriguez will accept the fact that he can't write
or tell stories, and start working from scripts by other people who
can. Until that day, we'll be stuck with crap like Machete, however.
