
I had very high expectations and who wouldn't? Ridley Scott directing a
great adventure with a very solid cast and a high budget.

The movie didn't really start the way I thought it would. The pace was
quite slow but very interesting, and I was gripped. The interaction
between Robin and his fellow soldiers was quite believable and
entertaining, and the story about the English crown succession was also
nicely done.

The entire chapter about Nottingham and its citizens is also at a nice
and slow pace, but its never dull. Von sydow is a pleasure to see as
usual, and both Crowe and Cate Blanchett delivers. You just sit and
smile, when things suddenly goes very very wrong...

It starts when Walter Loxley explains Robins past to him. The scene is
rushed and it seems a bit far-fetched. Also the following scene when
robin goes to the meeting of the barons. Ridley must at this time
peeked at his watch and noticed that he let most of the movie pass
without telling much, and start to massacre the script.

The Nottingham action scene is where it's starting to go seriously
wrong. You can't really get to understand how Robin suddenly is in
command of an army, and speaking to lords as their equal. Especially
when they call him by his common name in a scene later. The pace is
really off here too... Action scene-Action scene-Short grief scene-
Love scene- And on horseback against the French again in a 5min gap.
Set in contrast to the feelgood mode you were in this is a very rude
awakening.

After this you are handed a fighting scene that is absurd in every way.
The landing craft is from WW2 (what possible use does the landing
bridge have on these boats?). The battle is a slaughter, the French
never stand a chance(not very interesting). 

When suddenly Marion appears on the beach with the local teenage
runaways on ponies I just shake my head... why?! It's just stupid?!
Also they seem to be trained by ninjas and easily takes on trained
French soldiers.

There is an ending after, but its thrown together in five minutes.

In one line.

This movie had a lot of potential, but it's thrown away on hasted parts
and plain stupid scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Robin Hood with an open mind. I didn't read any of the
reviews, I didn't watch any of the previews, and early on I thought
that it was a pretty good film with a few loose ends that would surely
be wrapped up by the ending. I was wrong. Nothing got wrapped up and
there were so many plot holes and loose ends that left this movie a
disaster of a film. Here are just a few examples:

1) Who are the kids in the forest with The Strangers masks on their
faces? 

2) What happened to Prince John's first wife? We see her looking
through a keyhole at her husband in bed with another woman but that's
it. John tells his mother that he has written to the pope seeking an
annulment but his mother tells him that it will never be granted. So
happened to her? 

3) Early on, the priest who is leaving Nottingham to deliver the grain
tells Marion Loxley that she can't have the grain because "she reaps
what she sows." What did Marion Loxley, other than conveniently leaving
all her grain in a storage shed outside the main walls, do to deserve
this "reap what you sow" punishment? 

4) Robin comes to Nottingham and schemes with the Loxley's to pretend
to be Robert Loxley who has been gone for 10 years. No one in the
village catches on so we are to believe that EVERYONE in Nottingham
either a) are new to Nottingham and didn't know Robert Loxley before he
left or b) conveniently forgot what Robert Loxley looked like? 

5) Robin tells us that his motivation for returning to England is to
seek land and fortune. He's there to take advantage of the situation.
Marion Loxley has him sleeping on the floor with dogs and they have no
apparent relationship other than keeping up with the scheme that Robin
is Robert Loxley. Why then does Robin go out of his way and risk life
and fortune to help Marion get her grain back?

6) Robin gets the grain back and we see a small group of them casually
tossing the grain around on the ground. When Marion Loxley wakes from
her afternoon nap Robin tells her that her fields have been planted
all 5,000 acres?? 

7) If you want to remember forgotten things from your childhood all you
have to do is close your eyes and vivid flashbacks will suddenly
appear. 

8) The French had landing craft Saving Private Ryan style in the 12th
century? 

9) We see an army of horsemen riding fast through the mountains to get
to the beach to meet the French landing craft. Before they go down to
the beach they decide the horsemen will ride to the beach and foot
archers will fire from the cliff side. What archers? In the battle
scene we see thousands of arrows striking down the French on the beach?
Where did they come from because they obviously didn't ride in with the
horsemen? Did they fly in on helicopters? 

10) Before the battle on the beach against the French I thought, "This
is going to be a slaughter." It was. That is supposed to be interesting
how? 

11) Where is England's standing army? You know the tens of thousands
of men in red uniforms with swords, bows and arrows, cavalry, pikes,
and all that shiny equipment like we saw in the movie Braveheart? 

12) We see Prince John an arrogant young man with a mistress in his bed
early in the movie, then he confidently fires William Marshal and sets
Godfrey off to the north with an army to collect taxes. Then when civil
war "unexpectedly" sets off Godfrey is suddenly "not the friend that he
thought he was" and John seeks to unify the angry mob because England
conveniently doesn't have a standing army. Robin interrupts the
meeting, gives a little speech, and they all ride off to war together.
Then before the beach battle scene we see that John is useless because
although he is suppose to be leading the army he doesn't know how to
place the troops and instead relies on William Marshal to make a battle
plan. In the battle we see that John is just a bumbling idiot, swinging
his sword around randomly even after the battle is over. But in the
VERY next scene we see that John is confident again, going against his
word to sign the charter and declaring Robin to be an outlaw. Will the
real King John please stand up? 

13) Somehow on the battle on the beach, even though they were just
fighting victoriously along side one another, we are supposed to
believe that King John is jealous of Robin because the French
surrendered to him? King John asks William Marshal, "Who did the French
surrender to?" and William Marshal points to Robin. The thing is, it
seemed to me that the French didn't surrender to anyone. The King of
France ordered his boat to turn around so they could "fight another
day". Was the whole "they surrendered to Robin" just thrown in to move
the plot along? 

14) How did King John determine that Robin was lying about his
identity?

15) What is the motivation for the kids with The Strangers masks on
their faces? Early on they are evil looking thieves who steal the grain
from Marion Loxley but by the end of the movie they are little ninja
warriors on ponies fighting not just alongside Marion, but being led by
her.
<|_=00=_|>
I really resent having to pay money to watch a second rate prequel.

Didn't anyone from the studio see the final cut before release? What
were they thinking about? Come on guys, a little historical research
(even for a fantasy film like this) wouldn't have done any harm.

This movie was a collection of nonsense from start to finish. OK, Robin
Hood is a character from fiction and story tellers are at liberty to
use this character as they wish but surely some historical context or
realism are necessary to allow the suspension of belief? 

The French landing did not happen.

Magna Carta is an important part of our history and should not be
messed around like this.

Don't get me started on the geographical screw-ups. Do the film makers
have any idea how far it is from Nottingham to the South Coast? Or
where the White Horse is? Idiots.

But it is only a movie and I have been happy to sit through other films
that have mangled history to a worse extent than this, so what was
wrong? 

EVERYTHING! 

The script, the absence of plot, ludicrous casting, bizarre accents,
poor lighting and cinematography, inaudible dialogue (thanks),
unexplained background characters and hours and hours and hours of
nothing happening all add up to a momentous car crash of a movie.

Did I mention it was derivative? It stole the best parts of the Robin
Hood legend, Saving Private Ryan, the Disney animated classic and
Braveheart and wasted them.

Do not waste your time on this or the inevitable sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Robin Hood is a very professionally made film. Great actors, great
production design, great images. It is nice to watch because you feel
you are in the capable hands of Ridley Scott. But do not expect to be
amazed by the story or the acting. Apart from dame Marion, the
characters are two dimensional and predictable. The film pretends to be
historically correct, but is of course a well dressed fantasy. There
are a few battle scenes, filmed in the Gladiator way. They are
exciting, but not very convincing. In fact, they are completely
ridiculous when you think you are watching a historically correct film.
The worst for me were the boats in the final battle, apparently trying
to induce a D-Day feeling. 

Overall, the story is off balance. Some scenes have a very slow pace,
while other scenes, often key elements that explain how Robin Hood came
into existence, are reduced to a few shots and proclamations. The end
of the film tells it all: it reminds us that we were supposed to see
the story of how the legend of Robin Hood started. The makers just
forgot to tell it.
<|_=00=_|>
Solid is the keyword. From the screenplay, to the cinematography and
the performance, the film is based on solid grounding. Indeed, we
couldn't imagine less from the people assembled on the project. And the
first signs are indeed good, starting as an origin story that traces
Robin's steps returning from the Crusades and arriving in Nottingham.
The plot is immediately both compelling and fresh with regards to the
well known tale.

The first problem we run into is that the film never allows itself to
linger. This creates two problems: the sense of purpose it reaches for
through urgency has a tendency to be lost to aimlessness, and the
characters never have the space to generate real depth of emotion.

Imagine only this: Russel Crowe, Cate Blanchett and William Hurt
together have collected three Oscars, and an additional nine
nominations. Yet it it's hard to lavish praise on their performances,
because they never manage to inspire empathy as well as we might wish.
The sense of urgency - of imminent physical danger to their person, of
the crucial importance of their quest - never quite strikes home.

The screenplay doesn't always help them. It attempts to give the tale a
strong moral foundation, by associating it with burgeoning democratic
ideals in feudal Britain, unconvincingly: suspension of disbelief
failed this reviewer.

For both these reasons, the epic sense of greatness that saturates Mr.
Scott's similar works never works in this one. Indeed, in the
anticipated climax of the battle, slow motion shots fall flat, and
emotion never reaches an expected high, in spite of the film's
competence in the action scenes.

This is a work that strangely echoes others, as well. People will be
drawn to comparisons with Gladiator; these aren't particularly relevant
beyond Russell Crow's similar (yet less engaging) performance. Rather,
Robin's journey from the crusades and through England, in which he
prospers on fateful luck and earned respect, copies Ridley Scott's own
Kingdom of Heaven. In their themes and ambition these three films are
alike, but Robin Hood doesn't thrive from the comparison. Where flaws
are shared, what made the other two great is oddly lacking in this
latest historical epic from the director.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, here is he awful truth:

1. Apparently a Stone Mason wrote the Magna Carter (Robin's Father) 2.
Although a humble archer, Robin within a matter of weeks becomes the
King's right hand man in battle 3. Apparently in 13th century England,
the French had 20th Century warefare technology 4. Apparently French
soldiers can row their way across the channel in canoes and then jump
out and fight(although earlier in the film the channel is so perilous
that a big English boat barely makes it across and it took overnight to
cross) 5. King John never signed the Magna Carter 6. Russell Crowe can
do a number of English accents - unfortunately, he just couldn't choose
one 7. Cate Blanchett is very good at channelling Katherine Hepburn 8.
Apparently Marion is psychic because she recognises the man who killed
her father-in-law in battle without having ever laid eyes on her 9.
Marion although having worked on a farm in Nottingham for 10 years is a
skilled soldier and killed wield an axe better than most of the French
and British soldiers 10. Everyone in the town of Nottingham is so
stupid that they don't realise that Robin is impersonating Robert of
Loxley who is about 20 years his senior, blonde and looks nothing like
Russell Crowe. 

Don't see it - it's not worth your coin. I'm so disappointed because I
love Cate Blanchett and Crowe is usually very good. But this is just
bad story telling.
<|_=00=_|>
Robin Hood was an Outlaw in England. The idea that Robin Hood followed
King Richard in the Crusades is from the Sean Connery movie "Robin and
Marion". Robin and Marion was made in the cynical 1970's. Robin and
Marion is not a movie that gets watched a lot (I wouldn't sit through
it again) and it's theme didn't need to get expanded in to a two hour
epic. The traditional Robin Hood takes place in England for it is the
story of the British People Saxon's vs the Norman occupiers. Green is
the symbolic color of the native people of Briton (e.g. Gawain and the
Green Knight). The traditional Robin Hood of legend wore green for he
is part of the pagan history of Briton, not some cynical inner city
trendy who wears black. There is this idea that people in the past wore
depressing clothing and were dirty all the time. Yet if you look at the
paintings from the time of King Richard the first you will find that
people wore bright colors. Only bums dress badly in any age.

If Christian Bale, Cary Elwes, Jeremy Irons, Johnny Depp, Robert Downey
Jr. or Kevin Kline had played the part of Robin Hood we could have
expected a more extensive range of emotions and with a better English
accent. But Crowe has a limited range of emotions. Emotionally Crowe
only does the self-serving stuff very well, you know; angry, self pity,
prolonged contempt etc. Crowe is also very good at being "intense"
which accounts for his screen presents and is often mistaken for acting
ability. But the emotions required to do "The Merry Adventures of Robin
Hood" are way, way beyond him. Being jovial, generous, good natured,
romantic or even nice are outside his ability.

In the Errol Flynn version, Robin Hood is bested by Little John and
comes up laughing at himself at having been beaten by another man. This
sort of self-demeaning humor and good will are way off the chart for
Crowe. Crowe doesn't do humble. The character of Robin Hood had to be
retooled to be more like the Gladiator so that Crowe could play the
part. So Robin Hood the cunning fox had to be changed to become Robin
Longstrides the bossy grumpy bear.

Crowe can't do love or Romance very well. In Gladiator they had to cut
love scenes out of the script. Crowe can only really do 'intense needy
love' or 'self-pity mercy love' but not Romantic Love. To make matters
worse Crowe hasn't held onto his youthful good looks in the ten years
he's been a star he's really aged badly. Tom Cruse has been a star for
almost 30 years still has his looks. As does Brad Pitt. Kevin Beacon
who has been in the business for almost 35 years still has his looks.
But because Crowe has let himself go so badly the part of Maid Marion
had to be drastically retooled as well. The first Maid Marion Sienna
Miller was fired from the movie because she looked too young and thin
next to the aging and hefty Crowe.

The movie was shut down for two months and the part of Maid Marion was
changed and rewritten to that of an older woman. Maid Marion became the
Widow Marion (Cate Blanchett) and the romance became a marriage of
convenience. Crowe can't do romance. Gone are the scenes where Errol
Flynn and Olivia De Havillandand flirted playfully on screen. The
unromantic Crowe doesn't flirt well and can't woo. His on screen
romances have always been rewritten around this so that the woman does
most of the work while he looks angry, confused and full of self-pity.
In this case Crowe's Robin Hood doesn't really like Marion (anger) he's
just doing a friend a favor by sharing her bed. It's hard to believe
that Robin Hood spent 10 years in the army with surrounded by men and
isn't attacked to Marion. But Crowe can't play "attracted" there's no
self pity in it.
<|_=00=_|>
To begin with, it sucked. Now let me tell you why.

Once upon a time, an archer named Rusty was the most noble and educated
archer in King Richard's army. So noble and educated, in fact, that
when he pretends to be a knight, no one can even tell the difference.
So this noble and educated Archer ends up gaining the trust of all the
barons in England, and leads them (and the King, mind you) in an heroic
assault upon the French. In fact, when the French surrender, they do
not surrender to the King of England, but to the noble archer named
Rusty. That is the sum total of the film's plot. It has only a passing
reference to the well-known story of Robin Hood. Oh, right. And at the
end, the King is so incensed that the French surrendered to Rusty
instead of him so he outlaws Rusty, and names him 'Robin Hood', and
thus begins the legend.

So what, I hear you ask, are the actual flaws in the film? Well,
firstly, it is that Robin is clearly a noble and well-educated man,
rather than a dirty Englishman who has been fighting for the last 10
years in Palestine. Given the storyline, it would have been so much
better had Rusty been a common soldier, given that he then pretends to
be a nobleman.

Secondly, everyone listens to Rusty, as if only he really knows what he
is talking about. No one else has any idea how to fight, and even the
King of England listens to him.

Thirdly, it appears that the main group who eventually become the merry
men of Sherwood Forest are in fact a bunch of dirty English children
who have run away from their mothers in Nottingham because all their
fathers are away fighting in the Crusades, and now they pillage their
own families and hide in the forest.

Fourth, the French are so inept that this bunch of dirty English
children ride into battle against the French army and _aren't_
completely slaughtered. Heck, anyone can grab a sword and kill a bunch
of seasoned warriors - it's only the French for goodness sake!

Fifth, anyone can pass for a knight, even an archer. After all, the
only difference between a knight and a peasant is the clothes they
wear.

Sixth, it is only when an old man tells him about his heretofore
unknown father, that Rusty remembers everything from when he was six!
Like he'd never tried before! And how his father, a stone mason and
accomplished philosopher, got all the Barons to sign a revolutionary
and genius charter that challenges the feudal system in England!

Now, the script wasn't poorly written, or the action scenes badly shot.
It's just that there really wasn't much of a story, and certainly no
theme at all. As such, there was nothing for the audience to connect
with. I didn't care a whit that Robin Hood was banished as an outlaw.
Russel Crowe can't act for spit, and he did a terrible, limp job. It
seems that his default role is as a noble, yet betrayed quasi-
aristocrat, allowing him to be heroic with almost no facial expression
(except at the end when he's yelling). Cate Blanchett was unremarkable
in every way. The other actors were passable.

I was quite disappointed with Brian Helgeland's script. He's done
better work, such as LA Confidential, which had both characters and
plot. Robin Hood had almost neither of both. There were never any
stakes involved, and only one brief moment when everything looked bad
(Marion's abduction scene). The French were coming, so Rusty whipped
everyone up and they went and fought and won. That's it. That's the
movie. Nothing to care about, no characters to like, no danger and no
point to the movie.

A poor effort from all involved. 1 out of 10.

EDIT: I have since discovered that the script for this film was
originally a bizarre CSI style film set in medieval England where the
Sheriff of Nottingham tries to apprehend Robin Hood. Then Ridley Scott
decided that he wanted to direct a Robin Hood story, and who knows how
it went bonkers from that point on. Apparently the original script was
a bit crap too, but completely different from the end product.
<|_=00=_|>
It's one of those films that was annoying me as I watched it but
actually making me cringe the more i think about it. A few points -
ignoring any historical inaccuracies (of which there are plenty).

1) There appeared to be only one character (Godfrey) who could speak
English intelligibly, accents of Robin Hood and Little John were quite
laughable (Crowe darted between North Yorkshire, Liverpool and Ireland)
and I have no idea which part of the world Little John was supposed to
come from. 2) Maid Marion  a very hammy performance and legend does
not ever mention her super-human strength; have you ever tried to bend
a modern longbow replica? Very hard even for a large bloke and they
have about half the draw weight of the real thing, and I had no idea
that Wendy and the lost boys were involved in the legend of Robin Hood.
3) The final battle scene was taken more or less directly from Saving
Private Ryan and included replica landing craft, one of the daftest
scenes in cinema for quite some time. 4) There is so much information
about concerning archer's other weapons of that era there was no need
to invent a long sledge hammer 5) Why call the film Robin Hood? Only
the last few seconds are to do with 'Robin of the Hood' so this should
have been clearly labelled as a prequel. 6) Could they not have found a
beach with real cliffs?

All that money wasted  they could have made a decent film
<|_=00=_|>
God almighty! This Robin Hood is catastrophic, period. On top of that,
the lack of humbleness reaches the unthinkable. I've heard Russell
Crowe , the new Robin Hood, referring to Errol Flynn's version as crap.
Crap? Can you imagine! Errol Flynn made that movie "The Adventures Of
Robin Hood" in 1939 and people still watch it today, 77 years later,
with utter delight. Russell Crowe's "Robin Hood" was made only 7 years
ago and it's already forgotten. I was appalled by his comment and
realized that Oscar winner or not, wisdom or knowledge is not part of
the equation. I've heard Russell Crowe in a different interview saying
he never trained as an actor. He claims he doesn't know anything about
Stanislavski and more importantly, he doesn't care to know. What a
message to send to the new generations.
