
Once every so often a film comes along that will change your perception
of things. In one way or another it will give you elements to better
yourself. "Precious" is such a film. Lee Daniels, the director, takes
things to extremes, so much so that this could easily be an opera. When
you think that things couldn't be worse, you discover that they have
been worse already for a long time. Precious is played by a sort of
miracle. Her name is Gubarey Sidibe and I don't even know how to
pronounce it but I will certainly take her in my mind from now on,
always. When she stands listening to the rantings of her mother, I
surprised myself by feeling tears running down my face. The mother, a
standout, once in a lifetime performance by Mo'Nique, is also a
character we've never seen before. Brutal, unsentimental and truthful
to the core. I saw the film over three weeks ago and I can't shake it
out of my system, if that in itself is not a sign of greatness I don't
know what is.
<|_=00=_|>
I should start out by emphasizing that I disagree with much of the
criticism the film has been receiving. A common disparagement condemns
the movie as "emotionally manipulative" and "superficially
inspirational", much like other films that fall into the category of
the "inspirational dramas" depicting stories of individuals overcoming
obstacles and hardships that many people seem to hate. Well, I
personally found that the film portrays a reality far too bleak and
dismal and brutal for it to possibly be considered "inspirational"; in
addition, while the film ends on somewhat of a high note, even that is
laced with misery and becomes the lesser of two evils for the
protagonist. Another criticism of the film  and of the book it is
based on  is from the opposite end of the spectrum, and blames the
film for portraying TOO bleak a situation to the point of exploitation.
I personally found the scenario portrayed in the film to be strikingly
realistic, and I think that people who are too ignorant to realize that
such a grim existence can feasibly be led in 21st century America need
a serious wake-up call.

One aspect of the film that deserves all the praise in the world is its
cast, specifically the performances of its lead actresses and the
surprising and unexpected quality of these performances considering the
particular thespians involved. First and foremost, we have the breakout
role of Gabourey "Gabby" Sidibe, portraying the overweight,
twice-pregnant and illiterate protagonist, Precious. The performance is
a revelation both because of how convincingly Sidibe reacts to and
interacts with her brutal day-to-day existence, but also because of how
completely removed it is from the first-time actresses' actual life.
It's always impressive to see a performer convincingly convey difficult
and profound emotions that they probably would never feel themselves in
their real lives, but for a first-time actress to convey these emotions
is particularly incredible. Precious' life is populated by three
prominent adult characters; two of which see past her daunting exterior
and genuinely want to help her, and one who does the exact opposite.
Mariah Carey plays a social worker who takes a personal interest in
Precious' case and, in the film's most dramatically gut-wrenching
scene, makes a genuine attempt to bridge the gap between the teenager
and her monstrous mother. Carey has only ever acted in two or three
other films, including the atrocious vanity project "Glitter", but in
this role, she de-glams, puts on a convincing and raspy accent and
actually manages to deliver a surprisingly well rounded and convincing
performance. Paula Patton plays another alternate mother figure in
Precious' life, her teacher at her alternate school who takes a
particularly personal interest in Precious, to the point of letter her
stay at her home when she has nowhere else to go. Unlike Mariah Carey,
Patton never did anything to totally remove my confidence in her acting
abilities, but then again, she's never actually given what can really
be considered a "good" performance, which is what makes her tender and
genuine turn in this film most impressive. But the scene-stealer is
without a doubt Mo'Nique, probably one of my LEAST favorite "comedic"
performers who totally redeems herself and manages to deliver a
frighteningly convincing performance, incredibly transforming herself
into Precious' villainous, sadistic and purely evil mother. It is an
incredible and difficult and extremely brave performance, and is even
more impressive considering that it's coming from the star of "Phat
Girlz".

The performances are rich and incredible enough to hold up dramatic
scenes, but not the narrative as a whole, which, as I mentioned before,
suffers from a series of bad directorial choices made by director Lee
Daniels. The film's biggest flow is emotional inconsistency: in an
attempt to portray Precious' inner feelings, Daniels injects strangely
conceived fantasy sequences at key dramatic moments in which Precious
imagines herself as a glamorous and famous personality. While the
intention of these sequences is clear, their abruptness just totally
jolts the audience out of the emotional flow of the film, and they just
seem out of place. For a similar reason, Daniels chooses to set grim
and dramatic scenes to oddly inappropriate songs and musical cues,
which once again just feel forced and out of place, and interrupt the
emotional resonance of the scenes. Other than that, the film just seems
poorly done at times, or simply unfinished: the cinematography is
inconsistent and often features zooms and loss of focus that don't feel
like stylistic choices but rather just like mistakes. In addition, the
editing is quite disjointed at times, and many cuts interrupt musical
cues in the middle or otherwise are just so sudden and jumbled that
they completely ruin the dramatic flow. Finally, I just felt that while
many separate scenes work wonderfully and are emotional and genuinely
gut-wrenching, they are just too loosely connected for the film to
actually carry a consistent dramatic arc throughout, as it jumps
between Precious' brutal home life to her newfound support in her
classroom to her day-to-day activities to her inner fantasies. For
example, a major dramatic reveal near the end of the film end sup
completely ignored and thus irrelevant to the dramatic arc. As I
mentioned earlier, the performances are absolutely spectacular, but the
inconsistencies in the film's tone and its jumbled and odd editing take
away from what otherwise could have been a genuinely affective film.
<|_=00=_|>
Gabourey Sibide looks and sounds a lot like the late Hattie McDaniel;
if a biopic about McDaniel is ever made, Sibide should star. Starting
from this superficiality, it is clear that the character Sibide plays,
an abused, obese late- 20th-century Harlem teenager three or four
generations down the line from the McDaniels era, seems to embody a
sadly ironic regression in the status of black women in America.
Precious's very existence and her debased environment speak to a grave
social disease that continues to poison our civilization  the creation
and perpetuation of a dependent underclass. At one point Precious
compares her self image to "black grease that needs to be wiped away."
The horror of it all is that as dreadful as Precious's situation is,
she is actually better off than many others in similar straits. She is,
despite obesity, strong and healthy, drug free and has a beautiful
smile. There are plenty of underclass females much closer to an early
grave and utter hopelessness than she.

The story takes us on the journey of this monstrously mistreated young
female from near destruction at the hands of her violent,
hyper-narcissistic mother (Mo'Nique) and her rapist father (who has
impregnated her twice by age 16) to a rescue with the help of a frayed
but still somewhat viable network of dedicated social workers who help
her gain literacy and independence from her wicked elders.

Interspersed with the depressing realities of ghetto life is the
constant flow of Precious's glamorous daydreams, the little fires
generated by her undying spark of life, her only opening toward beauty
and light, imagining herself wrapped in beautiful gowns, doted on by
handsome men, cheered by adoring crowds on the red carpet; wealth,
fame, as she knows them from the pop culture that is her only mental
nourishment. For her mother and for herself, life is an endless round
of TVfoodarguments-TVfood-arguments. In their dark and dingy
apartment, practically the only illumination is from the TV screen.

Mo'Nique's performance is revelatory on multiple levels, down to the
bone of the human condition and certainly up to the highest screen
standards. It is bravura work. Sibide's performance is technically
masterful but much of her effectiveness comes from her imposing
physical presence; this is not meant to detract one iota from her
acting skills  it is just a fact. The excellent supporting
performances include a pleasing turn from singer Mariah Carey as a
down-to-earth social worker with a playful personality; it's an
inventive characterization. But the whole cast excels and they should
be honored for great ensemble work, especially the young ladies in the
special education classroom. 

Flaws? The pacing seems to slow down unnecessarily toward the end and
Precious's educational progression seems a bit confused and not
completely fleshed out, but this is minor stuff. This is a very
inspired work of art by someone with a fresh vision. It is not
preaching morals or slogans, just revealing truth.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not surprised that Push won both the Grand Jury and Audience Award
at Sundance this year. Director Lee Daniels (Shadowboxer) has created a
very powerful film that manages to entertain while evoking a broad
spectrum of emotions, from anger and heartbreaking pity to optimism,
joy and hope.

Clareece "Precious" Jones (Gabby Sidibe) is a fat 16-year-old
illiterate black girl that lives in Harlem with her welfare-dependent,
abusive mother (Mo'Nique). She has one autistic daughter (who lives
with her grandmother) and is pregnant with another child, both from her
mother's boyfriend, who is also Clareece's father. Her mother
repeatedly tells her how stupid and worthless she is while other kids
taunt her for her obesity. She has become hardened and heartless,
lacking education and social skills. She spends her time cooking for
her mother and fantasizing unrealistically about a glamorous life. She
would be easy to dismiss. Based on a novel by Sapphire, this is some
pretty bleak stuff.

But good things can happen in this world and Precious is blessed with
an indomitable spirit that refuses to accept the negative reinforcement
that bombards her. Through her efforts, and despite resistance from her
mother, she finds an alternative school. It is staffed by Miss Rains, a
caring teacher (Paula Patton) and classmates who, although anything but
perfect, possess enough compassion to become supportive friends. It
turn out that the world can be a pretty good place.

First-time actress Gabby Sidibe gives a powerful, emotive performance.
Equally good is talented actresses Mo'Nique, who is almost frightening
as Precious' mother, and Patton as the compassionate teacher. Lenny
Kravitz and Mariah Carey also have minor roles, giving the film a
little star power.

Daniels conveys a Harlem existence that is profane, hard-edged and
brutal, but with rays of humanity and compassion that leave room for
hope. It is at once both a message to the poor in spirit not to
despair, and to the rest of us make the time and effort to reach out
where we can. Push is an inspiring message that will fill you with
optimism and joy.

Sundance Moment: When asked about her getting the role, Sidibe said
that she had some acting experience--like a non-speaking role in a
college production. Pretty funny! She said her friends encouraged her
to audition because she "fit the profile." She also said she relied
heavily on "Mr. Daniels" for direction. Daniels said there were parts
of making the movie that were hard on him emotionally--like directing
Precious to eat, or instructing her peers to bully her.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Precious at the New York Film Festival yesterday. As you may
know, Precious is the only film to ever win the Audience Award at both
the Sundance and Toronto International Film Festivals. The film has
been highly hyped since January and I was afraid I would be
underwhelmed. Well, I sure wasn't! Precious is a powerhouse piece of
cinema that will rip your heart to shreds. The acting is pitch perfect
from everybody and the film-making is unusual. 

Precious is about Claireece 'Precious' Jones, an overweight girl who
has already had a child with Down's Syndrome from when she was raped by
her father. Her mother constantly abuses her and she's already pregnant
with her second baby. When she gets kicked out of school and is forced
to go to an alternative school to help her get her GED, she realizes
that there may actually be hope for her. 

The acting is easily the most important and best thing during Precious.
Newcomer Gabourey Sidibe will absolutely be famous and definitely
deserves the Best Actress Oscar. Her performance was so real and
searing that you're just forced to sympathize with her. Other cast
includes Lenny Kravitz, Mariah Carey, and Mo'Nique who are all
unfamiliar to the genre, but still perform very well. Mo'Nique gives a
really great performance as the abusive mother Mary and should
definitely win an Oscar as well. Mariah Carey's performance is a bit
dry, but her character is not very major. Paula Patton, the actress who
plays Blu Rain, Precious' teacher, gives a believable and loving
performance as well. Also, the girls in Precious' class are all great.
I actually was sitting behind them at the screening and got the them to
sign my Playbill. They were all very excited. 

The crowd seemed to love the movie. At Toronto, people laughed at
serious parts, but the New York audience ate it up. People clapped for
Precious, cried at the right parts, and even gasped at the screen over
some of the violence. The violence is often so abrupt that it feels as
if you too could have just been hit over the head with a pan. Everybody
was so engaged in watching it even Gabourey Sidibe herself who had
already seen it three times. Even she had trouble watching some parts.
At the end of the movie, everyone in the audience stood up and gave Lee
Daniels and his cast about a ten minute standing ovation. Everybody
loved the film. Precious is definitely one of the best movies of the
year and will definitely at least be nominated for Best Picture if not
win it. It may be a bit bleak, but Precious gives me and everybody else
hope. Lee Daniels wrote a quotation at the end of the movie that said
"For precious girls everywhere". This is what really put the icing on
the cake. Precious is a magnificent and disturbing movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this film at Sundance, and it was truly amazing. I confess I
did not read the book (I will now), but I suspect that Daniels really
took it to the next level. The story of Precious and her world was
deeply moving and supremely well acted. I was particularly surprised at
my own ability to laugh, along with the story, at the worst humanity
can throw at us. After the film, Daniels, the producers, and the entire
cast came forward to many standing ovations. Gabby was indeed charming,
and I was particularly riveted by Mo'Nique's discussion of how she was
able to become Mary, Precious' mother. Daniels fielded many questions
from the audience, mostly directed at the task of realizing this story.
I hope to see his work again. This is a heavy film, but I highly
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
A fine film. An American urban working class drama, it manages to steer
clear of almost every possible idiomatic pothole created by
predecessors charging blithely down the same street. It seems real -
only the controlled framing tells you that it's not a documentary to
begin with - it's often funny, and has wonderfully placed surreal
day-dream sequences (I wasn't a fan of these per se, but I liked how
they were used). The Dangerous Minds/Freedom Writers school of
contrived classroom turnaround is completely avoided (with one notable
exception). The final set piece is one of the most raw, emotionally
bruising and uplifting things I've seen in a cinema for a very long
time; everyone was crying.

At the centre is (worthy Oscar tip) Gabby Sidibe as the eponymous
Clareece Precious Jones. The fact that her middle name is not some sort
of irony lever is a testament not only to Lee Daniels but also to her
iron performance. It's also impressive that the satellite cast act with
the character she is digging out (yes, even Mariah Carey, an amazing
metamorphosis). It would be so simple and safe for everyone to treat
Clareece as the fat girl whose acts garner pity and pathos. That is not
this film, not by a very long way.

The film achieves so much. It's relentlessly warm and human - a middle-
class audience, such as the one I was in at the 53rd London Film
Festival, doesn't need to nod sagely and side with the protagonists as
abstract figures representing a life of alternative fortune. There's
too much to enjoy and synchronise with. Consequently, when the bad
things happen they are spasm-in-the-auditorium shocking. Brilliant.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
To my surprise, this soul-baring 2009 drama is neither as painful nor
depressing as the subject matter would imply. In fact, director Lee
Daniels' treatment alternates so fluently between gritty realism,
social uplift, and fanciful episodes of fantasy that the end result is
as much enthralling as it is emotionally draining. First-time
screenwriter Geoffrey Fletcher does a solid job adapting the 1996
source novel by Sapphire, "Push", but the strength and honesty of the
cast is what sears in the memory. Daniels could have been otherwise
charged with stunt casting had he not drawn out such powerhouse work
from the out-of-left-field likes of comedienne Mo'Nique and pop diva
Mariah Carey. Granted Daniels in his second directorial effort is not
the most subtle of filmmakers (his first film was the strangely exotic
"Shadowboxer"), but he does bring a level of florid passion that the
subject desperately needs to alleviate the unrelenting bleakness of the
title character's existence.

Set in Harlem in 1987, the story centers on sixteen-year-old Claireece
"Precious" Jones, a morbidly obese girl so void of self-worth that she
refers to herself without irony as "ugly black grease to be washed from
the street". Nearly illiterate, she finds herself pregnant for the
second time by her father, and the school principal arranges to enroll
Precious at an "alternative" institution. She recognizes this as an
opportunity to better herself, but her mother Mary discourages it and
forces Precious to apply for welfare. The unenviable mother-daughter
relationship is the crux of the film, and it is here the film gives an
unblinking account of monstrous physical and psychological abuse that
explains the sharp contrast between Precious' inner and outer lives. On
the outside, she is a forlorn yet formidable presence with a face so
full that she can't express emotion without a great deal of effort. On
the inside, she is loved and admired unconditionally. The two slowly
come together at Precious' new school where she finds acceptance and
redemption through a dedicated teacher (improbably named Blu Rain), who
must get through to a classroom full of girls all disadvantaged in
their own ways.

The birth of Precious' son, along with the bonding she feels at school,
signals a harrowing showdown between mother and daughter and ultimately
a confrontation between Mary and Mrs. Weiss, the no-nonsense social
worker who seeks the truth behind Precious' home life. In the title
role, Gabourey Sidibe is ideally cast given the film's semi-documentary
approach. An untrained actress, she is able to elicit empathy by giving
herself completely to the inchoate character, and when Precious breaks
down from the weight of yet another seemingly insurmountable
development, Sidibe gives the scene a halting honesty. Paula Patton
("Swing Vote") gets to play the Sidney Poitier role of the elegantly
transformative teacher as Ms. Rain, but she gives the
too-good-to-be-true character a palpable sense of passion. As Mrs.
Weiss, a role originally slated for Helen Mirren (who co-starred in
Daniels' "Shadowboxer"), Mariah Carey, bereft of her glistening make-up
and diva mannerisms, brings an audacious toughness to her smallish but
pivotal role.

However, it is Mo'Nique ("Phat Girlz") that gives the film's most
shattering performance. I don't know what emotional reservoir she is
tapping into, but she nails Mary with a fury so startling and realistic
that it's impossible to trivialize the source of her villainy. She
never compromises the hardness in her character, and her
self-justifying monologue is an impressive piece of work. There is also
solid work from a couple of other unusually cast performers, comedienne
Sherri Shepherd (of the morning TV talkfest "The View") as a tough
school administrator aptly named Cornrows and Lenny Kravitz as a
sympathetic male nurse, and a scene-stealing turn from Xosha Roquemore
as the ebullient Joann ("My favorite color is florescent beige"). Not
all of Daniels' left-turn devices work, for instance, using Sophia
Loren's "Two Women" as the basis of one of Precious' fantasies seems
contrived given only a die-hard cineaste would understand the
connection. Regardless, it's no wonder that Oprah Winfrey and Tyler
Perry put their stamp of approval on the film as executive producers
since Precious ultimately finds a personal triumph despite the hard
life has dealt her.
<|_=00=_|>
I won't try to deny my slight bias while I was watching this movie. To
be in a theater among many movie enthusiasts, and most importantly the
director of the film (Lee Daniels) and the author of the novel
(Sapphire) will most certainly have an effect on your movie going
experience. But not enough of a bias to effect whether or not the film
is any good.

Precious is the name of the protagonist, (played by Gabourey 'Gabby'
Sidibe), a teenage girl who is one of the most harsh conditions upon
our first meeting with her. She's pregnant for the second time to her
own father's child, her mother (Monique) is an unstable and dangerously
abusive woman, and she is unable to read and write. This is a terrible
situation to be in, but Precious manages to live through it through her
dreams, blocking out harsh memories with hopes of becoming a fashion
model or a movie star. The story kicks off when Precious is invited to
a special learning school, where the classroom is small and where she
will be able to learn in a better environment.

From this description of the plot, the film sounds tried. I was
concerned for a brief moment while watching that this would be another
"Stand and Deliver" or "Freedom Writers". We've all heard and seen
these "problem stories" of inter-city kids who go to the top. For one,
although the film briefly uses these classroom dynamic scenes, enough
of the film is so unrelated we realize that comparing this film to
those isn't fair. Precious is about a girl, not about a student or a
classroom.

Let me tell you up front: Precious isn't a problem movie (the kind of
movie where things just get worse and worse, and then finally some
solution is made). Despite how many obstacles are thrown at Precious,
and believe me a whole lot are, the film is still entirely about who
Precious is, and mostly, how she can raise her head high and keep going
in all these loathsome situations. Director Lee Daniels (here I go with
my bias of seeing it with the director) actually encouraged the
audience to laugh, because there are a lot of humorous scenes,
intertwined with some incredibly jarring ones. Unlike "Requiem for a
Dream", which is such a depressing movie you are left with a bad taste
in your mouth, Precious is actually a very positive film about how to
stand through these trials of life. You will see scenes in this film
that will irk you, but enough of the film is good-spirited and, dare I
say, light, that leaving the film you will feel good about yourself,
and with a positive outlook on your own life. It also makes one
grateful for the fortunate situations we're all in, because I don't
think anyone has it rougher than Precious in this film.

This isn't a Slumdog Millionaire rags-to-riches story. Because the film
only deals with about a year of her life, we don't see Precious win the
million dollars or get into college. Any of that would just be cheesy.
Instead, we see her trying to learn to write, being a single parent,
and getting out of potentially dangerous situations. It adds for a
fuller and richer film that feels more heartfelt.

The directing is not some of the best ever, but it is of a high enough
caliber that Lee Daniels deserves some praise this awards season. I
think he will not have too much trouble getting a nomination. As for a
win, I am not so sure (especially with my personal pick Kathryn
Bigelow). My only complaint is some jerky hand-held for one or two
scenes, but that's not enough to defer from the great things he does.
The acting and the screenplay of this film are exactly the type of
Oscar-winning pieces you can name. Monique as an abusive mother is
downright scary for a long time, but soon she actually makes us
empathetic toward such a monster. I have no doubt in her chances of
getting a nomination, and as of now she is my pick for the win. As for
Gabby Sidibe: she's very good, but it all depends on who the
competition is.

The screenplay is brilliant, never feeling slow or rushed. The pacing
of this film is steady enough that we're engrossed the entire time.
Watch out for smaller roles by Mariah Carey and Lenny Kravitz, both of
whom appear briefly (without any make-up or nice clothing). So far,
Precious is sweeping the festivals and is looking like it's on a road
to Oscar glory, and well deserved. The film opens in NY and LA on
November 6th, and will be in theaters everywhere by November 20th. Be
sure to make a point of seeing this film.

My Rating: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason I can see that this movie gets the attention that it
does is the amazing acting and the pure shock value of poor inner city
life. Story wise though Precious seems to be one long cliché. It's
great to examine poor inner city life, but it can be done better than
this.

Take for example how the parents are painted as pure evil, while poor
Precious is angelic, how can we not forgive her for not knowing what's
appropriate? Teachers, social workers and so on are also inexplicably
perfect as well as thin and/or white. Why do we have to have to have
evil black archetypes and purely selfless saviors? It's unrealistic and
a bit racist.

Things just go from bad to worse to even worse, well that's quite sad
but you can't cry the whole time you're watching this thing, so what's
the point? Take away that and it's yet another Hollywood cliché of the
unappreciated student and/or class that is reached by a special
teacher. Where have we NOT seen that one before? 

OK the girl is fat, an important detail . OK her parents are horrible
to her, every children's movie or fairy tale starts that way. She leads
a rich fantasy life to escape daily trauma, again with the children's
film parodies? OK she finally finds someone that understands and helps
her fulfill her true potential despite parental influence. What is this
a grimmer version of Roald Dahl's Matilda? A plot line that is meant
for an 8 year old? I just don't get it.

Skip this "Little Matchstick Girl" meets "Sister Act 2" tearjerker and
go see a movie that tells a unique story.
