
There are not enough words in the English language to describe the
praise Darren Aronofsky deserves for Black Swan. It was one of the most
talked about and sought after films at this year's Toronto
International Film Festival (which I managed to snag a ticket for), and
for good reason  it is a masterpiece that is just as much beautiful as
it is nightmarish.

Nina Sayers (Natalie Portman) has toiled for years within a New York
ballet company, always pushing herself. The company has fallen under
hard times, and director Thomas Leroy (Vincent Cassel) makes the swift
decision to put on a new rendition of the classic Swan Lake. With the
company's go-to lead pushed into retirement, Nina is quickly selected
to be the lead in the new ballet. With competition arriving in the form
of new dancer Lily (Mila Kunis), and the demanding desire for
perfection from both Thomas and her overbearing mother Erica (Barbara
Hershey), Nina begins a journey into dark uncharted territory.

Black Swan is an enthralling and visceral experience from beginning to
end. Aronofsky has used what he has learned from making the raw and
unflinching The Wrestler and the cerebral horror and incredibly
disturbing Requiem for a Dream, and has crafted a film that you will
simply not be able to take your eyes off of. He builds up rather slow,
but right after that first moment of off-the-rails insanity, he
delivers one hell of an incredible piece of cinema. One that is not
easily able to be classified to any one genre.

While you may have read suggestions that Black Swan and The Wrestler
are two halves of the same film, make no mistake at looking at it any
further beyond the comparison of being about two people toiling within
two very different forms of art. Black Swan is never a low budget
character piece. It is a film that navigates between being thrilling
and horrific at the same time. While the horror elements start to take
more prominence in the second half (specifically the rather squeamish
elements of body horror, done in a way that would make David Cronenberg
proud), the film never lets one completely overtake the other. It
manages to maintain this sense of dread, darkness and rather graphic
wound/injury infliction throughout.

The visuals and editing are the drive of what helps make the film so
well done. Contrasting blacks and whites so frequently give the obvious
hints of good and evil, innocence and darkness. But Aronofsky likes to
throw in hints of ambiguity at every turn, changing the colours for
each character depending on the scene, and depending on what they may
or may not be doing. Even the scenery and set design is in plain black
and whites, always making the audience guess the true motivations and
intentions of both character and creator. Adding in the element of
reflection, both in others and the self (mostly through mirrors), only
helps compound these feelings of ambiguity and confusion. It will
consistently keep audiences thinking about what is being shown and what
is actually going on. The subtle visual effects and astoundingly well
done score only help add to the greatness.

Aronofsky also deserves recognition for the film's lean running time.
When so many films are often far too long and dragged out, this film
maintains a sense of momentum that never gets lost at any point. The
film's slow points are never dragged out, merely well padded out for
the shift from Nina being innocent to adrenaline soaked horror as she
descends into the realm of darkness. Rather gracefully, Aronofsky
manages to balance the goal of Mark Heyman, Andres Heinz and John
McLaughlin's script to blend Nina's tale with the story of Swan Lake
itself, and never loses sight or direction at any instance. This is
bravado style filmmaking at its finest, and more than suggests that the
brilliant direction in Requiem for a Dream was not a fluke.

Portman, who has shown her acting merits before in the likes of Closer,
delivers a startlingly intense and beautiful performance as Nina. At
once you can see the innocent, sexually repressed little girl who just
wants to please her mother, and the sexually depraved fallen angel,
inching closer towards independence and adulthood. She is very clearly
not "well" in the beginning of the film, and as the film progresses,
you can practically chart her 180-degree reversal in character. She is
downright terrifying in many instances, and more than proves her worth
as an actress. When she finally dons makeup late in the film, her
transformation from a once promising talent to a full blown powerhouse
talent becomes simply marvelous to watch.

The supporting cast only helps to further complement Portman's
extraordinary performance. Cassel is amazing as always as the slimy and
twisted Thomas. We never really get more than hints at his true
intentions, but Cassel makes every moment on-screen simply amazing.
Kunis delivers a level of depth I never thought was possible for her.
She commands the screen with every new scene, and this performance will
easily act as a starmaking role for her. Hershey is even better;
practically stealing the screen away from Portman's magnetizing
performance. She makes Erica into that monster of a character everyone
loves to hate, and brings a level of intensity to every mere moment she
appears in. If anyone is even nearly close to equaling Portman's
performance, it would be her. Despite only appearing for a few minutes,
Winona Ryder is amazing in her role as the former lead ballerina Beth.
I just wish she could have chewed up more scenery.

Black Swan is an incredible film from beginning to end, and will not
easily leave you. It is a masterpiece of unheralded success, and is
easily the best film I saw at TIFF. Watch out for it at Oscar time  it
just may steal the show.

10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the opportunity to see Black Swan in one of the 18 theaters that
it opened up on this weekend, although I generally do not do so, I was
compelled to write a review of the film.

From top to bottom, this film is at the height of what it means to be
true art in cinema. The various elements of the film, the
mise-en-scene, was so incredibly structured by filmmaker Darren
Aronofsky that one need only sit back and admire at the fluidity of his
camera movement, or the marvelous hue of colors amidst a film which has
it's color scheme largely dedicated to the symbolism of black and
white.

The performances where spot on, Vincent Cassel was terrific as the
suspicious teacher, whose brilliance and lust for the dancers in his
show are both quite reputable, one often beating out the other. And
Mila Kunis truly shines in this one, bringing out a side of her many
probably didn't know was possible. She is absolutely beautiful and
aptly portrays the black contradiction to Natalie Portmans white, a
terrific contrast of good and evil. Kunis, however, as many may assume,
is not meant to be there to spark a general conflict of good vs evil,
but to emphasize the side of Portman that we have not yet seen. A side
that will drive her to the brink of insanity to obtain.

And therein lies the true theme of the film, obsession and physical
strain over all else. Much like "The Wrestler" we have the main
character dedicated to an unappreciated form of physical art. Here, it
is Portman's obsession with becoming the lead of the ballet Swan Lake
which drives her into madness. You enter her mind as her teacher pushes
her to become perfect, pushing her to let go of her fragile White Swan
and become the loose and destructive Black Swan. As you follow her
through the stages of her audition leading towards a booming finale she
becomes less and less aware of what around her is distortion and what
is reality. As she loses grip, Aronofsky's ability to depict
psychological deterioration shines through.

And make no mistake, this film belongs to Aronofsky and Portman. As
stated, Aronofsky captures everything beautifully in frame, his
movement of the camera is almost as fluent and beautiful as the very
dancers on the screen. His use of behind the head vantage shots has
been a bit of a trademark of his, allowing as to see what the character
is. And his use of lighting is nothing short of extraordinary. But now
comes the true star: Natalie Portman. She blew me away, from start to
finish, she displayed her transformation for the sweet girl to the
physically and psychologically obsessed, all the way through attempting
to embody the white and black swan when necessary, literally trying to
become them in her mind, driving her towards insanity in the pursuit of
perfection. Words cannot describe Portman's performance here, to say it
is Oscar worthy would be a vast understatement, as the depth of her
character goes so deep it would nearly be worthy of playing two
separate roles. So fragile at time that you fear for her life, and so
corrupted at others that you hate her. Acting at it's finest, Portman
deserves an Oscar.

All things considered the film is nearly perfect, one of the best
dramas I've ever seen, and one that is as iconic and intense as it is
horrifying at times. Just to mention a few other things, Winona Ryder,
in the small amount of screen time she had, was spectacular, and truly
terrifying during particular scenes. And as always, when Aronofsky and
Clint Mansell team up, the score is both epic and eerie, somehow
simultaneously. The overcasting score of a distorted and intense
version of Swan Lake itself brilliantly compliments the atmosphere
throughout the film as these two artist have done before. It could
nearly work as a silent film, that's how brilliant it is. If you get
the opportunity once this film undoubtedly expands to other theaters
see it, it's harrowing and at times difficult to watch, but that
combination of beauty and horror makes it impossible to turn away.
<|_=00=_|>
Darren Aronofsky's "Black Swan" makes ballet cooland if that isn't a
Herculean feat in itself, I don't know what is. It also happens to be
one of the best films of the year, featuring one of the best
performances of the year. Natalie Portman will be nominated for her
devastating portrayal of petite perfectionist Nina the ballerina or
I'll pull a Werner Herzog and eat my shoe.

"Black Swan" is cut from the same cloth as Aronofsky's 2008 film "The
Wrestler," if at the opposite end. Interestingly, before either project
was realized, the director was reportedly mulling a drama about the
relationship between a professional wrestler and a ballerina. Somewhere
along the way, however, that concept was split down the middleand
thank God. "Black Swan" is brilliant, but it wouldn't necessarily play
well with others.

Like its predecessor, the film examines a physically demanding and
widely unappreciated art, and though thematically similar, the two
complement each other via mutually exclusive cinematic vernaculars.
"The Wrestler" is ultimately a safer film. Its emotional experience is
directly conveyed via plot and dialogue. What Aronofsky attempts with
"Black Swan" is riskier: he plays genre Frankenstein, taking
established themes and transplanting them into that which feels
initially least appropriatehorror.

Yet despite certain unmistakable cues, I'd hesitate to call "Black
Swan" a horror film. Visually, maybe, but John Carpenter insists "The
Thing" is a Western, and likewise there is more to "Black Swan" than is
aesthetically obvious. It probably best fits the psychological thriller
mold, but as Aronofsky suggests through his manipulation of mirrors, it
is not a film that ever casts a clear reflection. For me, that
dichotomy is what makes it so fascinating and rewarding.

"Black Swan" strikes an immediate haunting note that seems to grow
louder with reverberation rather than quieter. In the first half, the
director lays track work; in the second, he runs right off it. Nina
begins her journey receiving the coveted role of the Swan Queen in a
modernist production of Tchaikovsky's "Swan Lake." Her practiced
technique makes her ideal for the role of the goodly White Swan, but
her lascivious director (Vincent Cassel) has reservations about her
ability to portray her evil twin, the titular Black Swana character
that embodies impulse and lust. Nina's process of unlearning takes her
to increasingly dark, surreal depths.

The final act of the film comprises the most riveting 40 minutes I've
seen on screen all year, though "Black Swan" is never the mindf**k some
have improperly labeled it. Aronofsky deliberately builds atmosphere
and anticipation toward a Kubrickian climax that is at once obvious and
stunning. Tchaikovsky's score falls like an aerial assault, and that
inherent theatricality collides with Aronofsky's narrative as they come
to a dual boil.

Perhaps best of all, however, is that for all the audacity on display,
the director knows when to dial it back as well. The casting of Mila
Kunis ("Forgetting Sarah Marshall," "That 70's Show") was idyllic. She
plays a comic relief of sorts, with a comely, down-to-earth veneer but
viperous eyes. Her performance is fantastically calculatedshe provides
derisive, but much needed perspective on Nina's deteriorating sense of
reality.

"Black Swan" is a wholly effective work born from the shadowy underside
of the mind, anchored by a career-defining turn by Portman. It is a
quick, impulsive piece, but it explains artistic devotion and the
consuming nature of obsession as well or better than any film I've ever
seen. In hindsight, it feels more characteristic of the filmmaker
responsible for "Pi" and "Requiem for a Dream" than "The Wrestler,"
though the parallels between it and "Black Swan" run deep.

They may be cut from the same cloth, but the difference between the two
is as stark as black and white. Hail Aronofsky, the Swan King.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the commercials for Black Swan, I walked into the theater
expecting to see a film about a career ballerina who is forced to
access her repressed dark side in preparation for her role as the swan
queen and cracks under the pressure. Instead, the film I saw was about
a meek young woman who's possibly schizophrenic and certainly on the
verge of a nervous breakdown from the opening reel. There's no real
drama because Nina is already broken. All that's left is for the viewer
is to watch her become increasingly unhinged.

Black Swan has a lot of flaws: The conception of Nina (Natalie Portman)
is a major problem. No woman this childish and meek would ever last in
an elite dance company, so it's highly improbable that the company
director (Vincent Cassel) would single her out for the prima ballerina
role. We keep hearing about how Nina is technically perfect but
clinical and restrained, but we never see any evidence of this fact
because Portman is filmed mostly in tight facial close-ups during these
scenes, probably to disguise the fact that her dancing isn't so
spectacular.

The film is utterly predictable in that Nina becomes increasingly
unhinged to the point that we, the viewer, no longer know whether what
we're watching is "real" of one of her hallucinations, which greatly
resemble horror movie clichés: she's stalked by her doppelganger, her
reflection moves with a mind of its own, she imagines mutilating
herself, etc. None of these images are particularly inspired and they
spell out the theme of the story in the most obvious way.

Black Swan was utterly derivative of other, better movies. I haven't
seen The Red Shoes but so much of Nina's relationship with her mother
was cribbed directly from The Piano Teacher that Michael Haneke could
probably sue Aronofsky for plagiarism. Likewise, the whole angle of
Nina's repressed sexuality leading to her breakdown was done better by
Polanski in Repulsion, and that was almost 50 years ago. Black Swan is
mostly a hodge-podge of better films.

Finally, the film is every bit as Manichean as its title, with only two
poles for its characters: perfectly pure and virginal white or the
sensual black whore. Nina has a few drinks, masturbates and tells her
oppressive mother off, and we're supposed to take this as some sort of
exploration of her "dark side." Her rival ballerina Lily (Mila Kunis)
literally has black wings tattooed on her back. Could you get any more
obvious? I'd suggest that Black Swan works best as high camp and there
were some unintended laughs in my theater, but the film is so
self-serious and artistically restrained that it's not even gonzo
enough to be funny. Mostly it's misery porn that wallows in Nina's
suffering without giving the viewer a credible rationale for watching.

Look, the film is well-directed, it looks great, the actors generally
deliver good performances despite under-written roles. I've seen many
worse films than Black Swan. But in this case the hype is so wildly
overblown that I'm tempted to rate the movie even lower than it
deserves. Truthfully, this is a 6 out of 10 picture and only slightly
better than average.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see this at the Austin Film Festival and was
absolutely blow away.

Aronofsky is, in many ways, like Nick Cave. You know going in that you
are going to get something gritty, raw, and real. You know that, even
if it's good, it's going to be hard to process. But when he gets a hold
of something, really gets a hold of it, you won't be able to look away,
no matter how hard it is to watch. He is a singular filmmaker in the
regard that he can create something that is both visceral and cerebral
at the same time. Others can do this, but few as well. What he does is
never hollow, shallow, or empty, it is always dense, deep, and rich
with everything that makes film great.

"Black Swan" is no exception. In many ways this is the most Aronofsky
of his films. His style is spot on and works exquisitely with the world
he is presenting. It's surprising because he normally shows the dirty,
gritty, and ugly places, where as everything in this film is clean and
polished. But don't let that fool you, he saved the dirt and grit for
the characters. It's remarkable that the man who was able to show the
sensitive, and vulnerable side of a wrestler is also able to show the
brutal and hard side of a ballerina? For starters, this film looks
amazing. The production design, specifically the use of black and white
in contrast (don't spend time looking for this, it's everywhere and you
will miss something if you do) does it's job without feeling invasive.
The lighting is brilliant, as is the staging of the dance scenes. I'm
still stunned that the same eye that brought the grainy subway bathroom
of "Pi" to life is the same eye that brings all this rich and beautiful
color so clearly to the screen.

He also does a brilliant job of creating the world that these
characters inhabit. This film reminded me of all the terrible parts of
my theater days. The backstabbing, the trash talking, and the two faced
nature of that world is portrayed with a deft and brilliant touch.
There is a constant fear that you are one mistake away from losing not
only your part, but your future parts as well. You feel like you are a
part of this world, that he pressure of it is part of your world.

The camera work is great, if a little typical of Aronofsky at times (we
see the backs of heads quite a bit, it works, but you see it a lot),
but it is very affective. The somewhat jittery, close hand-held shots
are perfect and pull you deeper into this world than may be
comfortable.

Then there are the name performances. Of the name actors you mostly get
what you expect. Portman, Cassel, Hershey, and Rider are outstanding.
The only real shock, for me anyway, is Mila Kunis. I know her as Jackie
from "That 70's Show," and nothing else. She damned near steals the
show. That's right, in a move where she shares screen with Natalie
Portman, AND Vincent Cassel she is able to not only hold her own, but
walk away with some scenes. The interplay between her wild,
unrestrained Lilly, and Portman's frightened, tightly wound Nina
creates a brilliant external tension to match, and at times overpower,
the internal tension that lies at the very core of Nina.

I have been a fan of Aronofsky's work since I saw "Pi" on it's original
theatrical run ( I think I was the only person in the theater for that
midnight show), and he has yet to disappoint. He has a definite point
of view and a thematic core that runs through his work. Thematically,
this is in keeping with most of Aronofsky's work. It's about control
and the loss of that control. What happens when a perfectionist control
freak is in a position where she HAS to let go of that control? What
takes over when she does let go? In typical fashion, Aronofsky shows us
that sometimes in striving to get what we want, we risk losing a part
of us that we may never be able to get back, and don't realize how
desperately we need.

Read more from me at www.thefilmthugs.com
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah, it must be Darren Aronofsky, at it again. I'm certain I've just
seen a brilliant piece of filmmaking, but at the same time I feel like
I've just been run over by a convoy of trucks. It will be a while
before I calm down enough to sleep, so here I am.

Not everyone is as big as of an Aronofsky's style as I am, but one
thing that can't be denied is that he is great at working with actors.
Ellen Burstyn, Mickey Rourke, and now Natalie Portman are all very
accomplished actors who have found a new level and delivered
transcendent performances under Aronofsky. In Black Swan, Natalie
Portman's turn as Nina Sayers is, hands down, the best acting
performance of 2010-- male or female. If you'll forgive the cliché, I
completely forgot Nina was Natalie Portman about five minutes into the
movie. As Nina goes deeper and deeper into her role as the Swan Queen,
Portman only becomes more and more captivating. The entire cast is
excellent, but Portman alone makes this movie a must-see.

Darren Aronofsky is at his boldest heading up Black Swan. His depiction
of Nina's struggles as she succumbs to growing pressures from her
director, her mother, her rivals, her physical ailments, her personal
need for a perfect performance.. it is intense, thrilling, exhausting,
and truly gripping throughout. Part of what makes it work is that we
are completely along for the ride with Nina. We see what she sees, we
experience what she experiences, and sometimes it is truly distressing
stuff.

As great as the first 60-70 minutes are, man oh man, nothing can
prepare you for the final 30. This finale takes you to places I can't
even describe. I dare say it's on par with Requiem for a Dream's
devastating third act. It's a masterfully crafted climax that only
Aronofsky could deliver.

I am glad Aronofsky is able to do what he does. His brutal and
uncompromising style is definitely not for everyone, and it's not box
office gold, but for those viewers who connect with what he's doing,
the experience is truly something special.
<|_=00=_|>
Darren Aronofsky's Black Swan is an examination of obsession. Obsession
for beauty, fame, and above all, perfection. We are shown glimpses of
its splendor, only to be consumed by the ugliness and harsh reality
that is the world of professional ballet.

Nina Sayers, played by the talented Natalie Portman, is placed in the
precarious situation of replacing the company's former star (Winona
Ryder), the shining pupil of director Thomas Leroy (Vincent Cassel), in
the production of Swan Lake. The role is a dual role, in which she must
play both the sweet, innocent White Swan as well as her evil twin
sister, the Black Swan. Though Nina is best suited for the White Swan,
she must find a way to evoke her inner Black Swan.

Though all of the ballerinas in the company would kill for her role,
the least jealous one, Lily, played by Mila Kunis in a breakthrough
performance, has become Nina's biggest rival, catching the eye of
Thomas. Still, Nina is set on perfecting the role.

It is Nina's obsession for perfection, a constant theme through the
film, that is the root of her troubles. This obsession is passed down
from her mother, played brilliantly by Barbara Hershey. She too was a
ballerina but gave up her career to support Nina, living vicariously
through her daughter. Her obsession for dance is shared by all dancers,
really, but Nina takes it a step further, causing it to physically and
mentally affect her.

The pain and suffering that Nina's goes through takes its toll early on
in the film. She sees herself on the faces of strangers, the scratching
and itching she inflicts on her back, yet we never see, and the scrapes
and cuts that appear out of thin air, as if something inside of her is
ready to burst out. As the film goes on, it becomes more clear that her
thoughts and hallucinations are blending with her reality to the point
where she can't distinguish the two from one another.

Here's where Aronofsky's obsession/passion for filmmaking takes over.
He too seeks perfection in his work, finding the right camera angles,
the right tempo, and the right composition. This film has some of his
best camera work to date, thanks to the cinematography of Matthew
Libatique, whose fluid camera movements are the glue that hold the film
together.

Aronofsky is a director who tries to make his shots look as beautiful
as they can be, while not blowing you away with CGI and special
effects. The Fountain, though not a perfect movie by any means, had
some truly outstanding photography (also partnered with Libatique) that
wasn't heavy on the artificial special effects. Here he makes a similar
attempt to create an incredibly realistic picture. It helps that both
Portman and Kunis dedicated months and months of training and dieting
to get the appropriate look for the film. That hard work paid off for
sure.

Without those two ladies the film would be lost. Having seen the film I
can't see another actress in either role. They were perfectly cast.
Portman, though not afraid to show some skin for the camera in a film
like Closer (and even Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones), acts
and appears so fragile and innocent in many of her roles. Kunis on the
other hand, hearkening back to her days on "That 70s Show" has always
been the pretty girl with a bit of attitude. Her eyes are almost
hypnotic. These two women play perfectly off of each other, contrasting
like the two swans in the ballet. I'm sure the talk of the movie will
be the scene in Nina's bedroom (see it for yourself), but I enjoyed
their night on the town leading up to the bedroom scene more. We see
Lilly's influence and persuasiveness affect Nina tremendously.

Their performances are backed by a tight story. It's takes us places
that we least expect to go, showing us beautiful and disturbing images
that you would not expect from a movie about ballerinas, making Black
Swan one of the more original psychological thrillers in the past
decade. Like every good thriller, there needs to be good music, too.
Enter Clint Mansell, whose score for Aronofsky's second film Requiem
for a Dream has become one of the more beloved scores of all time. I am
particularly fond of his work for Moon, but Requiem is just as good if
not better. Here we have a great blend of classical and original
pieces.

These pieces come together to create a portrait of a dancer whose
demeanor gets in the way of her heart's yearning for success. When her
dreams start slipping, her mind does the same. Passion leads to
obsession. Obsession leads to transformation. The White Swan becomes
the Black Swan, and she must pay the price.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I lost track. Seriously. I am still astonished at the high rating
it had here at IMDb (which rarely lets me down) as that is what
encouraged me to go.

Natalie Portman, whether the white swan or black swan, is an
expressionless member of the chorus selected by the choreographer to
play the lead in Swan Lake. Inexplicably, I might add, when there are
far more talented dancers around her.

She is a one-note swan. Her facial expression never varies from sad,
purse-mouthed and leaky eyed. I got so tired of looking at her face and
it is shown just about all the time. To top it off, I felt absolutely
no connection with any other character as the movie wound
excruciatingly along on its hopeless execrable way to nowhere.

The lack of script is a serious flaw: but the graphic detail of what
she does do is laid out: she vomits, she slashes herself, she lives
with her mother, she has lesbian sex - sorta, but she has no
background, no character, apart from mommy's girl, no friends, no
interactions with others apart from the briefest of convos about
ballet. The mother is completely cardboard - with matching dialogue -
"I gave up my career for you, poor me".

This comes across as a horror movie with an unnecessary disgust factor
aiming for the roof. I covered my eyes many times. Not in fear but in a
kind of shame that a movie could be this bad. It is not even a good
ballet movie, the dance sequences are choppy compounded by the uneven
hand of the director everywhere.

When the audience started to laugh about 1/3 of the way through, I knew
it was all hopeless. I joined in, that's how appallingly bad it all
was. In the final scene, the laugh meter topped out. It is that
unbelievable and unintentionally comedic.

1 out of 10 from me as minuses are not allowed.

Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
Thumbs down. I've compared this movie to Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, that
is if Mr. Hyde went M.I.A. It was self-indulgent, over-rated and for my
money, a waste of time. Sure, Natalie Portman deserves credit for
losing 20 pounds and learning some dance moves, but, her acting was
flat. Most of the film she played Nina as the Naive, frustrated woman
the role required. However, where was the redemptive aggression of the
Black Swan? That would have been an action challenge! It was reduced to
a few scenes at the end. Wasn't that the whole point of the film? It
felt like, "OK, we're almost out of money so let's wrap this up." And
don't try to label the movie sophisticated or artsy. Please!!!! There's
no more sophistication here than a skin-flick on Cinemax. Just because
Nina grows wings on stage and her eyes turn red does not make an
art-house masterpiece. And the tired lesbian scene is so gratuitous
and, frankly, offensive. Yep, another gay predator trying to take the
good straight girl to the dark side. I believe this story could have
been told beautifully. And not all of it is bad. The music was good and
some of the dance scenes were believable. I also liked the camera-work.
But, somehow - let's blame the screenwriter and the director - it all
turns into a boring cliché': resentful mother pushing her daughter to
the brink, lesbian sex-scene, the older man/younger women love
triangle, etc. Can anyone tell an original story anymore? Boring! As
for Portman, she will win the Oscar for "Black Swan," however, she
should have won it for "Closer."
<|_=00=_|>
When a movie is being hyped to a substantial degree, there is always a
risk that this is not exactly due to its merit, but rather part of an
aggressive marketing campaign. Rarely has such a phenomena been so
obvious as prior to the release of 'Black Swan': the media have been up
and running about Portman's real-life romance sparked during its
filming, plus pondering the chances of 'Black Swan' establishing ballet
as a fashion trend. Still, having been partnered with a dancer for a
number of years, I couldn't resist the temptation - as a result of
which I have to side with those reviewers here who regard it as an
utterly pointless affair.

What bothered me slightly were the abundant factual errors in depicting
a dance company, although that's where most of the action takes place.
Even overlooking the myth of the all-powerful choreographer who can
choose his lead at random and at any given time: to have the lead's
antagonist being chosen as her substitute almost at the end of the film
is a quite unnecessary blunder. Even the friend I was watching the film
with asked me if such an important matter were not decided earlier on.
Other incoherences were Winona Ryder's character - a lead isn't likely
to be fired like that - and Vincent Cassel's character - a
choreographer engaging in such rampant displays of sexual harassment
wouldn't be likely to make creative director. Add the stereotypical
career mom of Portman's stereotypically fretting artiste, plus the
stereotypically venomous scheming antagonist, and voilà, there's your
assembly of paper-thin characters in a papier-mâché world.

What bothered me more about 'Black Swan' was the excessive use of
special effects to drive its already not-quite-so-hard-to-understand
message home: feathers growing out of scratches, talking photos and the
much-used eye-liner-enhanced demonic expression of the transformed
'Black Swan' made me wish to metaphorically grab Aronofsky by the
collar and scream: Enough of this already! I-GOT-THE-PICTURE!!! Stop
goofing off and go ahead with the story, g-dd-mm-t! The problem with
this being that, had the plot been as straight forward as in
Aronofsky's much better 'Wrestler', the runtime would have hardly
exceeded 30 minutes.

However, what bothers me most about 'Black Swan' is its complete lack
of respect for its subject matter. Hitherto all dance films have
somehow attempted to grasp the particular mix of hard work and
inspiration this art form demands and presents like no other. Yet
although this issue is pretty much the crux of Black Swan's story, it
fails to feature a full dance scene; instead, there are snippets of
real and imaginary dance-inflicted wounds, and a steady-cam rotating
around its star, thereby consciously ignoring the essence of ballet per
se: its effect as an ensemble piece. Anybody who has ever seen 'Swan
Lake' or any other ballet piece, for that matter, will probably concur
that the interaction between dancers is at least as important as their
individual talent. 'Black Swan' makes it almost seem as if a lead
dancer is something like the star of a Las Vegas show. The only thing
missing is Portman smattering a catchy tune out of her shiny black
lips.

One may argue that accuracy is not what the film is about, that it is a
psychological thriller. But why make use of the black swan/ white swan
metaphor of the piece, and then detach the whole story from the piece
and the art that inspires it? Even those who liked the film should ask
themselves: does this movie really address ballet in any way but that
very metaphor? And isn't the whole story revolving around such an
obvious analogy completely pointless? Another sign of disrespect to me
is the investment of 'Swan Lake', which as a mainstay of classical
ballet can be said to be a part of an unquestionable cultural heritage,
with a highly cliché and passé Freudian
repressed-sexuality-slash-schizophrenia gimmick. Not only is such an
approach rather pompous and shallow, but it is also inadvertently
funny; the means by which the lead character attempts to relieve
herself earned quite a few snickers in the audience I was in. Imagine a
90-minute-film about the sexual symbolism of 'Hansel & Gretel', and
you'll get an idea what to intellectually expect, and a conclusion
which - I have to concur with a number of other reviews - is painfully
easy to figure out.

In short: the most over-hyped and annoying film I've seen in a long
time. Definitely not for dance enthusiasts. If you're looking for a
psychological thriller in the world of entertainment, try the anime
'Perfect Blue', which judging from Black Swan's style seems to be
familiar to Aronofsky. And better dance films? Just pick any of them,
from 'The Red Shoes' to 'Billy Elliot' - they all have more to say
about the art of and devotion to dance than this one.
