
All right. Listen up out there. You could say this is Juno without the
baby...or almost as useless and watered down as a straight to DVD
movie...but you would be missing the point--not that every movie has to
have a point.

N&N is not trying to sell something or be something--it's not even
trying to be great...because most love stories that try to be great
fail. When you see N&N (and if you're in the mood for a lighthearted
enjoyable movie, you should), don't go with an expectation of grandeur
or even for the entire thing to be great. Alexis Diziena is as useless
in this film as she is anorexic and whorish--her part is almost
explicitly sexual. And there are so many subplots that their lives
appear at times to be exaggerated. What matters almost seems to be
camouflaged by what should be secondary.

The movie succeeds in a number of understated ways, though. Ari
Graynor's part is by far the funniest character of the bunch and Ari
plays the part extremely well. The gay band Michael Cera is a member of
adds a quirky afterthought to his character's back story. And what's
most important--the characters Nick and Norah act like slightly more
interesting versions of normal people. They have their flaws and their
disagreements but they're capable of finding the beauty in each other
and their story along the way.

Movies should be about the creation and expansion of a spark of
magic--not about giving you exactly what you expect or want. The
perfection of the movie lives in its imperfections. The love is in the
relationships that are real and what is fake gets left behind in a
sketchy area near 10th street (that's not a spoiler). It amplifies
grace with its soundtrack and hope with its random culmination of
peculiar events over a single-night.

So just let the infinite playlist play and enjoy it already.
<|_=00=_|>
In this age of super-broad comedies and sexed-up teen films, there
comes Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist. It's all-too-easy to groan at
the thought of sitting down to a high school film these days, yet 'Nick
& Norah' attempts to make you rethink that. It tries to achieve that so
rare of an achievement; it tries to make a genuine and honest teen
comedy.

It succeeds.

Michael Cera, that king of adorable dorkiness, stars as Nick, the sole
straight member of a queer-rock band. Kat Dennings plays Norah, a
rocking rich chick who is just as unattracted to teenage pettiness as
the rest of us are. These two meet through a random encounter and
together set out to try and find the secret show of the aptly titled
rock band Where's Fluffy? They cruise the town like grown adults, yet
underneath both are incredibly naive. They argue, fight, flirt, and,
yes, fall in love; what makes the film great is how mature and honest a
relationship they create. We know from the beginning that it is the
destiny of Nick and Norah to get together, yet when they do it is
nothing short of soulful. With a wonderfully witty script along for the
ride, it's apparent that this is much more than your average teenage
comedy. 7/10 stars! 

Jay Addison
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. It's not as raunchy as its
teen comedy predecessors, yet not as cloying as the usual chick flick.
Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist manages to strike up a nice balance
between the two with a dash of hipster thrown in there. However don't
let the title fool you. It isn't all about the music! 

The movie is very character-driven and, fortunately, the cast was
strong enough to carry it. Michael Cera and Kat Dennings make one
quirky and fun on screen pair. The supporting cast members also shine
in their roles. Ari Graynor, for instance, plays one of the most
ridiculously likable drunks I've ever seen. The performances delivered
by this young cast are really what make this movie.

Overall I enjoyed what I saw and can't wait for the DVD release. You
don't have to think too hard about this one. It's a quick glimpse into
the NYC music scene, light on the drama, but romantic and funny where
it needs to be.

Ah, and, for the record, you don't have to be into the hipster
subculture to appreciate this movie. It's definitely an accessible
story, whether you've heard of Vampire Weekend or not.
<|_=00=_|>
For years, teenagers have connected with one another through music and
the discovery of new and different bands. Even though technology has
allowed music to be more widespread and portable, there is still the
thrill of late-night adventures seeking live performances from
favourite bands. In Peter Sollett's Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist,
he brings this out on screen in a fun manner that shows you do not
necessarily need crude humour or death-defying encounters to make a
night out with friends an interesting and worth telling story.
Throughout the film, the audience becomes more enriched by the
characters and their ideas. Nick and Norah could have easily become a
smug "teenagers rule over all" tale like this year's Charlie Bartlett,
but is instead is a sweet romance between two individuals that most
people can easily relate to.

Nick (Michael Cera) is the guitarist for a queercore band with his two
friends Dev and Thom (Rafi Gavron and Aaron Yoo). He is currently
grieving over the separation between his former girlfriend Tris (Alexis
Dziena), but decides to join his friends for a performance out in New
York City. In an act of desperation, he encounters Norah (Kat
Dennings), who asks Nick to be his boyfriend for five minutes. After
her drunken friend Caroline (Ari Graynor) runs off into the city, Nick
and Norah along with his friends scour the city in search of her.
Meanwhile, Tris is decides to go after Nick to find out if it truly is
over between them.

One of the key successes of this film lies with the ensemble cast of
talented young actors. Adults are barely featured in this film, as the
teenage characters are given the overall spotlight here and Peter
Sollett has hired some very good actors to play these parts. Michael
Cera is still playing the awkward individual he has been doing since
Arrested Development, but he still grows into the part well, as his
character is not quite as nervous as previous roles. He proves to be
likable and relatable in the part and his chemistry with the other
actors comes off very well. Kat Dennings surpasses him, though, giving
Norah a sarcastic wit and coming off as very easy to relate to. The way
Nick and Norah progress throughout the film is handled very well by
Cera and Dennings. Ari Graynor deserves some acclaim for her wacky, but
still nuanced performance as Caroline. She is given the bulk of
"stunts" in this film, particularly when sharing the screen with a
piece of gum that ends up becoming a separate character by itself.
Aaron Yoo, Rafi Gavron and Jonathan B Wright allow their best friend
roles to become more than just simple stereotypes as they prove just as
likable as the leads. Jay Baruchel also does a fine job in a small role
that is definitely very far from the meek actor he played in last
summer's Tropic Thunder.

Credit should also go to first-time screenwriter Lorene Scafaria,
adapting the original source material by Rachel Cohn and David
Levithan. She writes a funny and intelligent script with well-developed
characters who evolve effectively and realistically as the film goes
on. She also does not go the Adventures in Babysitting route by showing
New York after hours as a grungy underworld, instead opting for a more
light-weight approach to the material. She understands the independent
musical scene of the Big Apple and she portrays it effectively
throughout the course of the film. Director Peter Sollett and
Cinematographer Tom Richmond also do well in lighting the city and
allowing it to breathe. Even though the large majority of Nick and
Norah takes place at night, there is still plenty of light that shines
through, particularly in showing the vast culture. Legendary locations
like the New Jersey Turnpike, Times Square and Pennsylvania Station
also make appearances to give the film an even more New York feel.

Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist simply wants to be a fun, breezy
ride through New York's music scene and the audience is happy to go
along with it. The characters are easy to relate to, the writing is
intelligent and the direction is solid. Though there have been plenty
of "one night in the city" films, Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist
manages to stay fresh and original and unique through its running time.
Overall, this is definitely one to watch at the evening showing with
the buddies.
<|_=00=_|>
On one particular night in New York City, an elusive band by the name
of Where's Fluffy? have announced a secret concert. The word spreads
through the city's underground punk scene faster than it can go out of
style and before long, it reaches Nick and Norah. Nick and Norah don't
know each other when this news reaches their ears but before the end of
the night, they will each find something infinitely more important than
Fluffy. NICK AND NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST is a contemporary romantic
comedy that sets itself in an entirely unconventional place and time
(can you think of another way to describe a straight romance in the
queer punk underground?), but presents itself in a sometimes far too
conventional fashion. While it can at times be too cool for school, it
is the roughness around its edges that give it an unexpected and
genuine warmth. Like any finely balanced playlist, it works its way
into your head and your soul.

Nick (Michael Cera) has been down as of late. It seems his fragile
heart has been trampled by Tris (Alexis Dziena), a girl so clearly
wrong for him but whose physical beauty is apparently capable of
diverting people from noticing her lack of a soul. Norah (Kat Dennings)
has some trust issues as she naturally assumes that any man interested
in her is likely more interested in her connections (her dad is an
enormously successful record executive). As a result, both Nick and
Norah have withdrawn  not externally as they both still function
amongst the other humans but they do so at arm's length. Like sleeping
beauties though, they are both awoken from their waking comas by a
shared impromptu kiss. Suddenly, worlds they never knew existed have
become possibilities and an ordinary evening becomes an adventure.
While the twists the evening takes are at times unrealistic, they do
give the night and the film a sense of spontaneity that makes the
viewer believe that anything can happen. 

Peter Sollett is a delicate director. His first feature, RAISING VISTOR
VARGAS, in which a group of Hispanic youths in New York's lower east
side figure out how to stop playing and how to be themselves instead,
was a singular revelation. He created a strong sense of hesitation in
face of the unknown and a desire to be something more. He has an ease
with creating simple, real spaces that foster intimacy and humble his
characters and Nick and Norah are no exception to his treatment.
Outside of these two though, the remaining ensemble are little more
than comic relief and functional plot progression pieces. They can come
across as occasionally transparent and one-dimensional but thankfully
never enough to distract from the delightful romance budding at the
center of all the chaos. Cera proves his versatility once again by
showing that there are hundreds of facets to being an awkward teenager,
that awkwardness does not define you but is rather just how who you are
can come across. Dennings is his perfect counterpoint; she is sharp and
strong, a worthy adversary, but frightened underneath it all, an ideal
match. The two are so strongly suited that they transform the sometimes
too facile script into something much more mature and meaningful.

NICK AND NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST made me want to fall in love. It
also made me laugh and swoon, delight in the magic of music and believe
in the transformative properties of one crazy night. It made me long to
be in New York City. It made me wish that I was that young again and
that believing in possibilities was that easy to do. It may not be
perfect but it is almost better that way, more real. There is something
so genuine at the heart of this film that makes it almost impossible
not to want for Nick and Norah to realize their potential  a potential
that is just as infinite as the playlist they are about to create
together.
<|_=00=_|>
If they gave an Academy Award for Most Adorable Movie, this would
definitely win. I'm NOT a teenager, so I'm certainly NOT the target
audience for this movie. That said, I thoroughly enjoyed it. I thought
the casting was perfect, the performances were delightful and the music
was terrific. What more do you want from any romantic comedy, except
for it to be funny and romantic? This qualifies. You're rooting for
Nick and Norah, almost from the first frame. And all the supporting
characters are wonderful. Also, there are some fun cameos, which gives
the movie that Inside Baseball feel that makes it that much more of a
hoot. I may even buy the DVD (which makes this a rave review!)
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that made my day, put a smile on my face, and made me
believe in films again. One goes to the movies to be entertained, to
see something that doesn't happen everyday, and Hollywood, as of
lately, seems to be think there are only two types of good movies: The
ones that make a ton of money, or the ones with a "serious" message
that end up winning all the awards. Apparently, the other ones aren't
good enough, and boy, are they neglecting most of the good stuff.

For starters, this is a joy to watch. It has the same tone of "The
Breakfast Club" a whimsical and true recollection of what it is like to
be a young person, searching for companionship and understanding, and
still not bound by society's adult demands. When the characters
interact in the film, there is much fun to be had, even when the
practical options are well, more logical. Kids go out, meet, enjoy a
good concert, have too much to drink and have consequences to deal
with, but it's all lighthearted, and everyone knows it's some sort of
imaginary fantasy.

After all, people don't fall in love in seconds, and you don't get to
have all your dreams come true overnight, but where else are you going
to have a piece of chewing gum with that kind of history? Then there is
the chemistry between the two leads, something that is rare in movies
nowadays, one that offers you an insight into the working brain of two
young people with much more than sex and special effects in the script.

People will talk about this film for a while because it is enjoyable,
fresh, and something worth discussing. It has a couple of shocking
moments, but they are funny moments, silly stops on the trip that Nick
and Nora allows us to become a part of. As they said in '39 "follow the
y..." wait a minute, wrong movie, but same ton of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
'Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist' turned out to be a sweet and cool
surprise. I was just expecting another usual teen flick and while the
main storyline does follow the formula, its the treatment that
appealed. The director really shows that even though there is a
physical attraction between the two leads, they also have
characteristics that repel each other. But, what really brings these
two people closer is their passionate liking for music. Both have the
same taste and the best parts of the films are the sequences where the
two talk about their favourite songs and singers. 

The movie pretty much takes place during an entire night and Sollett's
portrayal of night in the city is amusing and exciting. Lighting is
cleverly used and the yellow tinted colour adds more excitement into
the night. With the exception of that Spice Girls track, I like the
soundtrack. 

Michael Cera and Kat Dennings suit their parts wonderfully. They
maintain a good chemistry (even though their love scene looks a little
awkward). Aaron Yu, Rafi Gavron and Jonathan Wright provide some fun
comic relief as Nick's friends/bandmembers. Ari Graynor is hilarious.

I like the title of this movie and how the movie stays true to it. It's
a charming little film that is perhaps best enjoyed at night.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a small feeling about Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist that it
was going to be a decent hit, with the popularity of Juno, not to
compare, but this movie had similarities. This movie has my main pet
peeve with the younger generation of today, the people who are the "I
heard this band before you did so I have better taste than you do" type
of mentality. The independent rock music movies are just not my thing,
so I wasn't too excited to see this movie, but when some friends
invited me to go see it with them, I had low expectations and actually
ended up having a great time watching Nick and Norah's Infinite
Playlist. It's honestly one of the better comedies that is out in
theaters right now, although I have to admit I feel so dirty watching
all these horny teenage girls, I'm a girl, and it just made me feel
uncomfortable, this is how teenagers act? Scary; anyways, the story is
really fun and gives you a great time laughing.

Nick is having a hard time after his rough break up with super slutty
Tris, he continues to mix CD's for her that her fellow student, Norah
listens too and enjoys it. By chance Norah meets Nick not knowing that
it's Tris's ex and says that he's her boyfriend to show Tris that she's
no prude. But when Norah learns that Nick is the ex, Nick also won't
shut up about Tris, but they find out throughout the night that maybe
they're musical soul mates and can really dig each other's vibe. But in
the mean time with their crazy friends, they try to find their favorite
band that is hidden in New York.

Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist is definitely worth the look, I
would say that it's worth full price. The only thing I have a problem
with is our leading man, Michael Cera, this guy is a nice actor, but he
hasn't really expanded himself into different roles, he's been playing
the same character since Superbad to be honest. But I'm seeing Kat
Dennings more and more, I'm enjoying her presence on screen, she's very
lovely and has potential. But the person who definitely stole the show
was Norah's drunk friend, Caroline played by Ari Graynor, she was just
beyond hilarious and stole all the laughs. Nick and Norah's Infinite
Playlist is a great new teen comedy, though I really hope teenagers
don't act like this... if they do... oh, I'm praying that our future is
going to be alright.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I LOVE indie comedies,and hell,with a little bit of romance,ever
better. Saying that,I found this film AWFUL. There are many many
reasons,of which I will now list. 1.Michael Cera-I like him,he's a
funny actor,but he is quickly getting typecast...seriously,If I see him
play another sweet dorky boy who plays music,I might vomit. 2.There was
absolutely NO character development,most of them were
unlikeable,especially the main characters.The only saviours were the
drunken friend and the camp friends. 3.The plot,the premise was just
stupid....it just left me walking out the cinema thinking "who the hell
cares" 4.The fact that it was one of the most pretentious films I have
EVER seen.It felt as if the writers had simply thought of all "cool"
and "alternative" teenage things that they could,and randomly spat them
into one film. It just felt contrived. 5.The "non-wit" of the
characters. Juno it was not. 6.The fact that the audience is expected
to care,and empathise,with two people who have just met, being jealous
of each others exes,etc...THEY HAVE JUST MET!! Why would they
care,unless they were annoyingly neurotic. 7.It feels like it was
written by a child...you know in English where you have to write a
story and try to pack EVERYTHING in....This epitomises it....Then they
did this,then they did this..then they did thiiiiis....cue marginally
exciting ending. 8.The epic love story...seriously....they shag..after
meeting a few hours previously,and were expected to think its sweet.Its
not.

The film had a few funny lines,but it wasn't enough to save it.
