
City of Ember employs a supremely majestic setting to unravel its
end-of-the-world sci-fi adventure, but several missed opportunities
keep it from escaping its family-friendly roller coaster ride feel and
becoming something truly unique. However, a few too-convenient outcomes
and a rushed introduction can't take away the undeniable enjoyment of
solving the epic mystery of the once-grand city with the two
enthusiastic leads.

When the world ended, a group of elite scientists and engineers
determined that the only way to save their way of life was to build an
underground city far below the decimated surface. Deciding upon a
lifespan of 200 years for their city, the key to salvation was locked
away in a metal box to be handed down from one mayor to the next until
the time was right. But somewhere along the way the box was forgotten
Years and years have passed and the once mighty City of Ember steadily
falters as corrupt officials dictate an antiquated way of life and the
massive generator that powers the city frequently fails. Now it is up
to two ambitious youths, Doon Harrow (Harry Treadaway) and Lina
Mayfleet (Saoirse Ronan) to solve the mystery behind the origins of
their city and find a way out before their world is blanketed in
darkness forever.

Easily the most impressive piece of the City of Ember puzzle is the
delightfully ominous science-fiction visuals. The massive sets were
built in Northern Ireland in the shipyard-turned-soundstage of the
location the Titanic was actually constructed in (now the largest
soundstage in the world) and it's never more apparent than in the
beautiful crane shots through the underground city. The CG elements are
also top-notch, but the practical effects flawlessly immerse the
audience in the fantasy world of pipeworks and generators.

While the setting is brilliantly realized, the characters that populate
the grandiose city receive far too little development. The introduction
and relationship between the two main characters feels truncated and
never really furthers as the story progresses, and the origins of each
remain as enigmatic as that of the shining city. The adult characters
throughout never provide as much support as they should to enhance the
understanding and motives behind the city's cryptic suppression. At
least Bill Murray hams it up as the gluttonous mayor with a devious
agenda of his own.

Like something blended from a video game universe (Bioshock in
particular) and 12 Monkeys' post-apocalyptic subterranean sewer-world
(or even Terminator's hypogeal bomb shelters), City of Ember packs
adventure and intrigue into the wondrous exploration of a society
crumbling from age and deceit. As the young heroes scour the dank
passages and forgotten tunnels, it's difficult not to become immersed
in the fun of uncovering clues and discovering secrets alongside the
venturous duo.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
I've read quite a few negative reviews but i think some of the people
who have read the book need to realise this was a children's film that
would no doubt have to be simplified and draw people in from the start.
It hasn't had an easy launch either because it's been competing with
High School Musical 3, when i went to see it the cinema was empty apart
from me because everyone else had gone to see a certain other film.

It wasn't great and i am certain that if i had read the book i would
have hated it because the characters were not brilliantly written and
it was a messy mix of excellent fantasy sci-fi with the appropriate
special effects and corny American generic children's movie. But it was
good fun.

The girl in it displayed a superb acting performance the general set
and costumes and well mise-en-scene in general was excellent and well
worth watching just for that.

It was good to watch in the cinema and throughly enjoyable if a bit
predictable. As i say, generally i liked it.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just taken 129 eighth-graders who read the book to see the
premiere, everyone left the theater disappointed with what director Kil
Kenan and screenwriter Caroline Thompson have given us with this
translation from the page to the screen. Thompson, an accomplished
screenwriter, deserves more of the blame in their (and my) opinion.

Books rarely translate better to film and this one suffers for many
reasons. Jeanne DuPrau's book is an amazing trove of metaphors
(candles, the library, the seed, the Pipeworks, and the city itself).
When works of literature work on multiple levels, the filmmakers should
at least offer us more than one. In fact, this book could be a metaphor
for metaphors -- there are things below the surface that exist whether
we acknowledge them or not; it is our job to find the tools to excavate
the "deeper" level of what exists for others only on the surface.

Having sacrificed the novel's intellectual depth, the film version does
a great disservice to the dedicated reader: we are given special
effects that defy logic and re-focus the story unnaturally and
unnecessarily; there are included scenes of hyped-up action they are
neither satisfying nor helpful with advancing the plot; we lose some of
the intricate details of character development; there's an unnecessary
inclusion of giant scary creatures that offer distracting (and bizarre)
thrills; and the mystery of what Ember is is destroyed in the first
minute of narration.

The design of the film is great, but as in design, the beauty is found
in the details. I believe that the greatest details of the book are
missing, hidden away like the people of Ember. Let them come into the
light!
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much from this film, but I ended up loving it quite
a bit. It's a great kid's adventure, lots of mystery and action, good
character development, and plenty of cool settings.

Bill Murray and Tim Robbins do a fine job in their roles, but they are
mostly supporting cast. It's the two kids who are the real heart of the
story. I also love how the filmmakers created an entirely plausible
distant future where beauty still thrived despite crumbling
infrastructure. Above all, this is a movie about hope for the future.

If you are looking for a good adventure similar to THE GOONIES, check
this out. Great for kids, and great for folks of all ages who enjoy
light adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
When moving from book to motion picture, there are a myriad of problems
associated with such a task, one of which comes from those die hard
fans of the original story. Fortunately for myself I have never taken
it upon myself to read the source material on which this movie is based
upon, nor had I even heard of it until now. As a result I found City of
Ember to be a gratifying and sensually enticing experience with
brilliant performances, an endlessly captivating story and pace, and a
great mix of fantastical environments and characters which pave way for
subtext that is grounded in simple allegory of our own, current world.
To be sure, there are moments when the film dabbles in and out of tired
clichés, most of which we have seen countless times this year alone in
other children's adventures; yet what distinguishes this from, say, The
Chronicles of Narnia or The Spiderwick Chronicles is through its mature
themes and presentation that keeps the older viewer in mind. In this
respect, City of Ember is a solid family film that most audiences
should enjoy regardless of age, gender or anything else; good
entertainment, and a wonderful story to remember at that.

Taking place almost exclusively within the confines of Ember, Gil Kenan
here presents us with a vision of a dystopian future, where mankind has
been forced to live underground in order to survive. Set many years on
from this event however, much of the inhabitants of Ember are unaware
of their origin and all the more scared of it as a result. However, in
a time of desperation, two citizens Doon Harrow (Harry Treadaway) and
Lina Mayfleet (Saoirse Ronan) go on their own quest to try and find an
exit from the underground city, which doesn't go down well with
gluttonous Mayor Cole (Bill Murray) who just wants his next meal in
peace.

What follows from here is a story that isn't entirely unfamiliar (in
fact, it's dangerously close to this year's WALL-E), and yet director
Gil Kenan manages to take the script and turn it into his own
compelling take on a tried and trusted concept. From the arresting
opening monologue to the somewhat anti-climatic ending, there is barely
a spot here that feels out of place or contrived for the sake of
playing to the camera. The pacing, particularly during the middle act,
could have been a little tighter, and you often get the sense that
there's a lot of footage missing from this cinematic cut, yet as a
whole, City of Ember does enough, and with the right amount of
originality in tact, to cover up the rough edges. The ending, as I
stated, is a little underwhelming and all too brief, but it at least
feels coherent and natural to that which comes before it.

If there's one thing that Kenan manages to get across here however, it
is the imagination and vision that is present in the script and story.
Immediately, and most strikingly poignant during the opening sequence,
the City of Ember itself is a sight to behold; from the countless
lightbulbs that give the city its light to the murky tunnels that run
underneath to provide water, the production values present are superb.
Furthermore, the special effects work, although a little obvious during
certain sequences involving humans, is noticeably strong; particularly
when a giant mole-like creature appears. Not only does the creature
look disgusting and completely frightening, but the director does well
to stage the beast in such a way as to bring out its realistic
characteristics; saying that I got flashbacks of Jurassic Park's
raptors scene and a few from Aliens certainly wouldn't be a negative
link to make.

Yet as good as the CGI actors are, thankfully the more traditional skin
and bones performers aren't so bad themselves. As Hollywood unknowns
(to an extent) Saoirse Ronan and Harry Treadaway give convincing
performances in their lead positions and very rarely give attention to
their ages. Sure enough, their roles aren't the most demanding of jobs,
but despite their characters' underwritten nature both fulfil the
requirements of leads nicely and with enough conviction to consistently
carry the film forward. Of course, it's always good to have a familiar
face around, and Bill Murray, playing the obnoxious and gluttonous slob
Mayor Cole, is the one to provide such a role. Murray, although
arguably underused as far as his talents go, does well to establish a
character that nobody is necessarily going to warm to, and uses
whatever screen time he has adequately to further the movie on and to
back up his lead performers.

In the end however, all these elements simply come together to create
one thing; an adventure. As just that, City of Ember is a very strong
and convincing effort from director Gil Kenan who makes his live-action
debut here. Sure enough there are countless rough edges present, and
characters, although compelling in their quest, fail to resonate
emotionally, but the overall adventure itself  that is, the tale  is
one that will be sure to captivate imaginations and the attentions of
many diverse audiences. With stunning visuals that complement the
script's wonderful sense of imagination, fitting performances, and a
very memorable, intelligent and socially relevant story, City of Ember
is a fantastic slice of entertainment for all the family to enjoy.

- A review by Jamie Robert Ward (http://www.invocus.net)
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, this was an "okay" film; not bad, but nothing that memorable.
I enjoyed the sets of the subterranean city and the teen kids were
likable, but it took a little long before anything happened and when it
did it was a little too far-fetched with poor special-effects.
Nonetheless, the visuals and acting were fine and supporting
performances by the always-goofy Bill Murray and Tim Robbins were
somewhat entertaining.

The most intriguing actor, to me, was Saoirse Ronan, as "Lina
Mayfleet." At first she minded me a bit of Peggy Ann Garner in "A Tree
Grows In Brooklyn," but maybe two years older. Ronan has a plain but
expressive and intelligent face, a la a very young Cate Blanchett. She
looks like she's on her way to a good career.

Her counterpart, the male teen "Doon Harrow," was played nicely by
Harry Treadaway.

Although it's a nice, safe family film, I think a lot of kids will be
bored by the time anything happens, and adults will be so-so on it. I
stuck around for the visuals, mainly, but was disappointed in how
amateurish the action scenes in the last 20 minutes looked.
<|_=00=_|>
If the only thing City of Ember does is show that Belfast can play host
to high concept movies, then it was worthwhile, but no doubt, it was
aiming for more than that. Perhaps to stand next to such fare as Harry
Potter, or a Pixar flick.

Unfortunately, it falls short, but only just. This is without doubt, an
exciting romp about two coming-of-age children who break out of the
mold forced on them by the dying Ember, and in doing so, change
everything. The acting is solid, the set design and music excellent.
The concept, the builders of Ember leaving behind secret instructions
to get back to the world, is genuinely engaging.

Unfortunately, they don't get to these instructions fast enough, and a
lot of time is spent wandering around the, albeit, beautiful city.
Often times there is a lack of a perceived threat. Despite being
replete with a nefarious mayor and a mutated mole (like the massive
moths, never explained), the story uses neither of these things enough,
leaving some scenes to be propelled solely by the heroes following the
by-the-numbers instructions left to them. Worst of all, the ending
feels like a poor man's Goonies.

In the director's corner, he is guilty of some slow scenes, but what is
almost unforgivable is the flat looks of the actors during intense CGI
action. Somebody wasn't thinking ahead.

Nonetheless, a charming film that I hope made enough money to spawn
treatment of the books sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
"City of Ember", director Gil Kenan's follow up to his horror-lite for
preteens "Monster House", is a fun ride that's well worth the admission
price if only for the superb production design and the likable leads.

Lina Mayfleet (Saoirse Ronan) and Doon Harrow (Harry Treadaway) are two
of the inhabitants of the City of Ember - an underground city designed
to house humans for two centuries as an unspecified disaster takes
place on the surface. But as the 200 years have passed, the generator
that powers the city gradually falters, causing more frequent blackouts
and scarce provisions.

When no one would listen to them, especially the city mayor - Mayor
Cole (the effective yet underused Bill Murray) - it then becomes up to
Lina and Doon to find the exit that leads to the surface, which is
infinitely easier in theory than in practice, considering the plethora
of puzzles and riddles they would have to solve.

Without having read the film's source material - Jeanne Duprau's novel
- there's no way I can say if the script holds up to the narrative of
its literary counterpart, but here's where the film mainly falters. The
film feels like a rushed end product crammed to fit within the confines
of a typical family flick. Exposition is kept in the sidelines and
character development seems more of a ploy to advance the plot than
genuine attempts in sculpting something more than cardboard-cut
supporting characters.

But despite the narrative faults, Kenan imbues such a magical quality
to the dank environment. And for a film lacking impressive turns from
its more mature and established actors (including Tim Robbins as Doon's
father), upcoming stars Ronan and Treadaway's animated performances
save the day, right from a sweeping introduction of the claustrophobic
city to a touching finale that finally affirms the characters' quest
for light amidst the darkness.
<|_=00=_|>
Had some trouble deciding my rating on this one. There is much about it
to like, for sure, but there are also some flaws that cant be
overlooked. It has great setting and atmosphere, an intriguing plot and
charm to boot. Such things scores a lot with me. The directing is at
times questionable though, there is little sense of pacing and there
are some parts that feel tacked on (the crazy flumride anybody)just
because its supposed to be a summerfranchie. The cute little girl is
completely superfluous, and Bill Murray and Treadaway's Doon doesn't
make enough with their characters (or isn't allowed too). One thing is
clear. Its strenghs of this film mostly resides within the source
material(witch i haven't read though). Its really nice for a change to
see a fantasy film without a lot of monsters, the enemies here are
brain-stagnation, greed and selfishness. Some parts had me snickering.
The parts where they are handed there jobs through lottery (a jab at
communism?)and the old man with the pipes. THe story is actually pretty
good, not original, but tightly woven and deceivingly fresh with a
timely message. In short, the source-material had the brains, but the
director lacked the guts (or maybe just the talent, or were assasinated
by his studio) too go through with it.

Still, it beats the latest Narnia installment, and the latest Harry
Potter too for that matter. Also, Ronan, the kid from Atonement, turns
in a good performance.
<|_=00=_|>
Ill start out by stating that this review is coming from a fan of the
novel. I've read the book at least five times and it will forever be
one of my favorite stories. when i heard that they were making a movie
out of it i was on pins and needles for months waiting for it too come
out. in the theater i was quickly disappointed. how could they mess it
up this badly? lets list some of the screw ups

1. there were no robots in the book 2. were did the giant mole and
other animals come from? 3. what was with the escape? they escaped in a
different way then in the book.

all in all, they changed so much from the original book, which was
simple, engaging, and fun. the only other movie I've been this
disappointed in was eragon. avoid this movie and go read the book.
