
Seven. Yes, seven. No, I'm not talking about the David Fincher directed
thriller, nor am I referring to Samurai, Dwarfs or the lucky number. In
this context, seven denotes the number of wince inducing minutes it
takes for Lakeview Terrace to throw it all away.

Particular genres of movies tend to have a nasty propensity to ruin
their final acts, the foremost of those being thrillers and horror
films. May it be an amateur director not knowing how to complete their
vision, studio intervention sucking the life from the screen or the
commonly occurring revelatory "shocker" ending which tries to jam too
many ideas in the viewer's already bleeding sockets. Oddly, director
Neil LaBute's latest offering does not succumb to a conventional
destructive timeline, but instead opts to cataclysmically implode in
literally the final scenes, a feat which few films can boast. Perhaps I
am being an iota harsh, as I am recommending this film and the majority
of this review will be skewed favourably, but chiefly, my unbounded
feelings of contempt towards the finale should stand as a testament to
their standalone absurdity which contrasts harshly with the preceding
90 or so minutes.

Samuel L. Jackson has had a vibrant career portraying characters in two
spectrums of the acting realm. On one side we have his depictions that
can be lumped into the loud-mouthed anti-hero category (Pulp Fiction,
Die Hard with a Vengeance, Snakes on a Plane), and on the other, his
more nuanced (as nuanced as Sam Jackson can be) roles. (Black Snake
Moan, Resurrecting the Champ, Coach Carter) Lakeview Terrace to some
extent blurs this boundary, but for the most part Jackson plays his
role straight, and he is very good because of it. Jackson plays Abel
Turner a veteran, but widowed LAPD officer who lives his daughter Celia
(Regine Nehy) and Son Marcus (Jaishon Fisher) on Lakeview Terrace in
the hills. He is strict to be sure and his protective nature sometimes
obscures the obvious affection for his children. It is touches like
this, and similar additions by LaBute that makes his character all the
more menacing when the tension later builds, as he is not so much a
faceless villain, but a deeply flawed everyman. Despite an encroaching
wildfire, things are routine on Lakeview; Abel patrols the
neighbourhood at night, loves his job and wants nothing more then to
protect his family. Things change however when a new couple move in
next door. The fact that husband Chris (Patrick Wilson) wife Lisa (Keri
Washington) are interracial is only the fuel for Abel's contempt, and
when his children witness a late-night skinny dip by these two
newlyweds, the fire erupts and Abel and Chris' lives spiral out of
control.

Fashioning Abel as a cop is an intelligent choice, as per the
television advertisements indicate, what are they going to do, and who
are the authorities going to believe; who will police the police
indeed. The tension for the duration is so high, you don't even need a
knife to cut it, and a definite sense of dread and menace perforates
the narrative. LaBute, truthfully, makes few mistakes, he allows for
character development, and as I mentioned not just regarding Chris and
Lisa, lets the story develop at a slow burning pace, with the hillside
fires mirroring the escalating tempers. The story is also far more
insightful and caring then I ever would have anticipated regarding the
complicated issue of race and marriage, without feeling shoehorned into
the thriller template. As you can clearly discern I have a fairly large
amount of admiration for Lakeview Terrace, which brings me to the
ending.

Few endings I have seen have represented such a radical shift in tone,
and made its characters undertake such ridiculous and uncharacteristic
actions then we see here; and I assure you it is jarring. The
immediately preceding act, is an iota off kilter with the acts
preceding, but does not draw attention and properly illustrates the
consequences when things are taken too far in the name of retribution.
I was fully under the impression that things were going to end sharply
until Abel's character jolts erratically from intelligent saboteur to
volcanic lunatic and makes a series of choices that are against both
his nature, and what the audience would want to see transpire. Either
Abel lost his mind, or the director did. Those who seek out this film
in theatres may be disappointed and feel the conclusion somehow managed
to bilk them out of their cash like a sneaky pickpocket. LaBute's
finale does not so much embody a slap in the face, but a swift hard
kick to the groin.

Read all my reviews at Simon Says Movies:
http://simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
There's an inherent problem with making a movie of this kind: unless
you're a creative genius of your time, these sorts of movies have the
potential to turn real generic, REAL fast. 

Reminiscent of Denzel Washington from Training Day, we see Samuel L.
Jackson play an overly aggressive cop with an agenda, with the movie
focusing on the problems he's causing for his new neighbors. A
completely realistic situation that can take place anywhere. Problem
is, because a movie like this is completely character driven, after you
have the nice slow build up to the climax, once the tension snaps,
you're relegated to basically a generically default final act of the
movie where "the bad guy finally comes out of the proverbial shadows
and literally chases the hero." (i.e. Disturbia, The Glass House). It's
a shame too because the buildup on this was very good. Samuel L.
Jackson was really scary here, he played that bullying, obsessive
character perfect. The only acting problems I saw were 2-3 moments from
Kerry Washington where her sad face was done poorly, with overly done
lip quivers and facial movements (similar to Kirsten Dunst's crying
scenes from the Spider-Man movies, except done in a BAD way).

With a movie like this, you pretty much have these possible outcomes: 

1) the generic, semi-predictable ending (like we got here). 2) tragic
ending with hero dying at the end. 3) an unpredictable twist coming out
of left field (this has the potential to be very good or very bad). 4)
a Great ending.

Unfortunately we usually get number one, since they wanna give the
satisfying, safe, effective, tried and true, Hollywood ending. Most
people are content with those types of cop out endings. I'm not.
<|_=00=_|>
We've all heard the "racism is evil!" thing preached, preached again,
and then preached again. We get it: racism is bad. I'm not racist. I
don't know anyone who is racist. Why does every single movie have to
remind us of something we teach our children before they're old enough
to talk? After I watched Hairspray and Be Kind Rewind in the past year
alone, I officially had enough. And not only me. At the time, my best
friend, who was born and raised in Africa then moved to the US, said
the same thing: why can't movies just stop beating a pointless, dead,
blood horse? If someone is racist, I doubt a movie is going to change
their mind. Then, out of nowhere, Lakeview Terrace comes along and
defies every cliché you thought you knew about racism movies. And that
is really all I have to say about the topic: thank God that someone,
anyone, in Hollywood gets that we're sick of being force-fed clichés.
Why is Lakeview Terrace cliché-defying? It focuses on the gray aria of
racism, not black-and-white. It focuses on racism held by blacks, not
by whites. It veers so far from the "racism is evil!" standpoint, and
makes you make up your own mind about the over-the-top plot and who was
right, who was wrong. It's been so long since Hollywood actually let
the audience make up their own mind, this is like a breath of fresh
air.

Lakeview Terrace is labeled as a thriller, which is half true. The
first half builds up the social boundaries of real life, testing them,
and then building them up stronger. It doesn't jump straight to action,
but soaks you in reality before plunging into the over-the-top ending.
When the action starts, near the ending, it is really worth the weight
because it has you in a state of social tension. Anyone who says this
isn't realistic doesn't understand realistic human behavior. Even in
the most outrageous parts of the film, there was not a single thing
done by anyone that was hard for me to believe could happen in real
life. Maybe that's because I have a lot of cops in my family, or maybe
it's because I'm just more tuned into reality than the
optimistic-happy-"Humans are perfect!" people that are reviewing this
film and calling it unrealistic.

The directing, writing, and technical details are all fine. They're not
artistic or "find cinema", but they're done in a way that makes the
film work. The acting from Samuel L. Jackson is flawless. The casting
from certain other characters is a little off, but it works out in the
end.

Overall, I liked Lakeview Terrace a lot. I'm the kind of person who
loves thrillers, but as I said, this really isn't a thriller as much as
a drama with a thriller-like ending and some thriller-like scenes
scattered throughout. It's a nice break from the unintelligent mess
that has become an anti-racism subgenre, and a nice break from the
intense hardcore horror and action movies I enjoy watching. With that
said, it didn't bore me, which really surprised me. Lakeview Terrace
isn't perfect, it's not a work of art, but it's intelligent. I found it
very much worth watching.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you wanted to see a face of shock, you should have seen me when I
found out the new Samuel L. Jackson vehicle Lakeview Terrace was
directed by Neil LaBute. When I think of the man I can only conjure
images of the fantastic Shape of Things and In the Company of Men, and
I haven't even seen that one yet. To watch the trailer for this
seemingly generic, racially motivated clash between neighbors just made
me shake my head in shame. If it weren't for the castor the free
screening passI probably would have completely passed the film up,
without a second thought. So there I was, sitting in a packed theatre,
in a somewhat foul mood as security made us check our phones at the
door, taking mine despite the fact it has no camera, waiting past the
advertised start time. And then came Jackson on screen, waking up from
sleep, fixing a photo on the nightstand of he and his wife, slowly
moving downstairs to meet his children. This is a parent of morals and
intelligence, telling his son to remove a Kobe Bryant jersey because of
what the man stands for and constantly correcting his daughter's
English so as not to have her sound like an ignorant girl from the
streets. Watching him fold laundry on the couch next definitely woke me
up; maybe I wasn't going to get what I thought I would after all.

We are introduced to this man, Abel Turner, a cop and single father,
trying to raise his children right. A man who worked double shifts and
extra security jobs in order to move his family outside of the South
Central neighborhood he grew up in. Sure he is rough around the edges,
but he is a man of principle and it seems one that loves his children
and would do anything to protect them. This buildup puts an entirely
different spin on how he reacts to the moving in of Lisa and Chris
Mattson, (Kerry Washington and Patrick Wilson respectively), an
interracial couple buying their first house. Where the trailer just
shows racial tension and disgust, the actual film shows someone trying
his hardest to get along, but truthfully not being shown very much in
the way of friendly neighbor from the newcomers. Between making love in
their pool, within eyesight of Jackson's house and the children looking
out the window; Wilson throwing his cigarette butts into his yard so as
to fool his wife; and a little hostility early on, one might see where
Turner had a point. Is the man a little wrong in the head, though? For
sure. His intimidating demeanor is not helped by the little tests he
performs, including pretending to hold Wilson up in his car with a
flashlight.

There really isn't much to the story besides the escalating tensions
mounting between the Mattsons and Turner. What at first can be
construed as getting off on the wrong foot soon grows to borderline
hatred with a touch of malicious intent. The threats fly and
retribution is begunyou shine a flood light into my bedroom, I'll do
the same. Not too long after do the children become involved, acting
out against their father wanting to get to know the neighbors while he
tries to shield them away. While I did not anticipate the high jump
Jackson's games take towards the end, stopping any fun that might have
been mixed with the not so subtle hints for the newly weds to move,
going straight into thug territory, I was not surprised. The
introduction of a character early on has no relevance if the story
didn't evolve to the point it does at the end and it's convenient
events like this that threaten to ruin what is working. The story is
very neatly and meticulously put together, but maybe a bit too well
done. An obstacle looming heavy over the whole film is the forest fire
slowly eating its way closer and closer to the street that the action
takes place on. Having such a backdrop always in mind screams artifice
and truthfully does take you out of the movie a bit. Yes, they are in
California, but instead of introducing the fire so early on, (I believe
it's the first thing we hear on Jackson's alarm clock radio), they
could have made it a problem with subtlety. We know the dangers of the
area and would believe a fire starting; we don't need to be hand-held
through the ordeal. Also, there is an underlying duplicity that crops
up often. Jackson's partner is living with decisions on whether to try
for a promotion and move his family to a safer neighborhood, thus
allowing us to find out Abel Turner's similar predicament twenty years
earlier. There is also the story of what happened to his wife, a tale
whose explanation is revelatory to his feelings towards the Mattsons, I
won't say more, but you will see the mirroring for yourself when
viewing.

When you do look at Lakeview Terrace from afar, you will see some very
intriguing instances of race, social status, and other barriers coming
to the forefront as catalysts for the strained relationships cropping
up. These are the kind of issues you expect LaBute to grasp ahold of
and do something inventive and provocative. There are moments, don't
get me wrong, but in the end, this is a studio picture and I'm sure his
hands were tied just enough to keep it all reined in. However, there is
that edge to it, sometimes more pronounced than others, along with a
great performance from Jackson, as well as the others. With a fitting
conclusion and overall entertaining suspense, I'd say LaBute has found
a happy medium between Hollywood-fare and his indie/stage
sensibilities. I just hope he goes full indie next time, because that
is where he truly excels.
<|_=00=_|>
When i saw the trailer for this movie i immediately compared it to
"pacific heights" which stars Michael Keaton and is a favorite movie of
mine, i am not a fan of Samuel L Jackson i have never really enjoyed
his work and the few movies he has been in lately including "the
cleaner" did not help my view on his acting, so going into this movie i
was determined i would not like it and i was wrong , the first thing i
want to clear up is this isn't like the movie i compared it to, it
deals with racism but from the other end which i have never seen before
in a movie, And secondly Samule L Jackson does great in this role as a
cop with a grudge, the story is more than what you would think and the
trailers did not give anything away, it is not a complicated movie with
twists but it is a movie that is different from previous films with
this type of aim. the fact that i am not a fan of Samuel L Jackson yet
i praise him for this role shows how much quality this movie has.
Patrick Wilson also does a great job , he is a good actor and its a
good warm up role for people to know his face in his next role in
"watchmen".

The rest of the cast do a good job in there supporting roles. This by
far is not a movie that will win any Oscars but it is a movie that will
entertain, i recommend it for a Saturday night in with drinks. A very
entertaining thriller with great acting from its two leading actors. I
hope my review was help full and if you get the chance to see this take
it, because it will not disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
So I have to be brutally honest here, I was mainly looking forward to
see "Lakeview Terrace" because I really thought it was going to be
awful. And it did look that way to me by the trailers. So I went to
laugh at it, but when it started to keep getting better and better, I
couldn't really laugh at it anymore. Now not saying that this movie
does not have flaws, because IT DOES. But it surprised me with its
thematic elements, and really suspenseful scenes. But the cons are that
it is a really heavy PG-13 film, and I personally thought they could
have made it 10 times better if they had crossed the line into
'R'(which wouldn't have taken much more) and really fleshed out some
things that are just hinted at because of their content. And the main
con to the film for me was that there was no message at the end of the
movie. It just ended, no theme or statement about the story. Just ended
without saying "Now the moral of the story is..." So overall I'd
recommend this movie to you. The good out-weighs the bad and its really
a lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Neil LaBute has built his portfolio breathing life into movies and
stage plays about dysfunctional individuals (usually men) who have
difficulty fitting into relationships and societal norms. His first
offering, 1997's In the Company of Men, earned him praise for his stark
tale of two misogynist businessmen who conspire to romantically destroy
a deaf woman, and is play "Bash: Latter Day Plays" earned him
excommunication from the Church of Latter Day Saints for its
unflattering portrayal of Mormons.

With Lakeview Terrace, LaBute opts for the unconventional exploration
of black-on-white and black-on-black prejudice with uneven results.

Samuel L. Jackson plays Abel Turner, a veteran Los Angeles cop and
single parent struggling to raise his two young kids. Turner's life has
been scarred and ruptured by the death of his wife, who was killed in a
car accident with her white lover while engaging in an affair 
something that understandably has been festering in Turner's craw for
some time.

When the purchasers of the house next door turn out to be a racially
mixed couple, Turner begins transposing his hatred on them as proxies
for his wife's transgressions.

Initially Turner's intimidating ways seem focused on bullying his new
"liberal" neighbors into maintaining decorum and giving his kids a wide
berth, but things soon progress into unstable territory as his years of
being an alpha male with a gun and a badge begin to get the better of
him. With each successful intimidation, Turner becomes emboldened to
become a law unto himself.

LaBute frames Turner's exploits against the backdrop of an escalating
brushfire in the neighboring hills, which serves as metaphor for
Turner's growing inner rage that threatens to consume the property and
lives of everyone involved. LaBute's execution has all the subtlety of
a gun butt to the head, which may actually have been his intention,
given how he likely figured the audience would be comprised of
escapist, action-seeking types not generally known for reflecting upon
humanity's shortcomings.

Jackson does everything asked of him as he shows the progression of
what at first seems to be a well-intentioned and loving parent, into an
unbridled bully. The problem comes in the film's final act as the story
culminates in forced cacophony that pushes the boundary of
believability over the edge. A small dose of well timed restraint would
have transformed this movie from a semi-decent popcorn muncher into a
more serious vehicle for reflection on human values and prejudices.
<|_=00=_|>
Lakeview Terrace, what could have been a great thriller turned into a
complete and total mess. I'm honestly surprised that this movie has the
rating that it does, I'm trying not to insult anyone, just honestly,
how could you take this seriously? It was so horribly written and I was
actually looking forward to this film. My major problem was that the
character development, there wasn't any, you go on this roller coaster
ride where you think you might understand why Samuel L. Jackson's
character is the way he is, but instead they go back into making you
just brutally hate this guy. This is how beyond insane this movie is...
Samuel L. Jackson goes from this stern, uptight guy to a bully, to a
chainsaw maniac killer, to just plain psychotic, and honestly this guy
is never given a solid reason why he turns this way, you're just left
with five million questions and on of the worst endings I've ever seen.

Chris and Lisa, an inter-racial couple, the nicest couple you will ever
meet, the couple you would love to be friends with finally got a home
of their own in what seems like a very nice neighborhood... well, that
is until they meet Able, their black widowed neighbor who also happens
to be a police officer... who also happens to not approve of their
relationship. From the get go Able is pretty much a rabid dog who
threatens Chris off the bat saying to leave the neighborhood and that
he doesn't like them. He just cannot be reasoned with, when Chris and
Lisa have an unexpected surprise they were not ready for that gives
their marriage a shake, Able isn't helping when he goes as far as to
threatened their lives.

Honestly this is one of the worst films I have seen this fall season,
it was beyond unrealistic and you have no compassion for some of the
characters. Not to mention there is a constant rubbing in your face of
the race issues, it's not just Samuel L. Jackson that doesn't approve
of this relationship, all of the family and friends make some kind of
disrespectful comment on it, I personally know 3 inter-racial couples
and they don't receive that much hate or disapproval, it was hurtful on
that level. I recommend you stay away from this movie, it's slow paced
and the thrills are a let down. The story doesn't make much sense and I
just found it to be pointless.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I want to say that Samuel L. Jackson's performance was
absolutely "creepy" and he nailed perfectly!!! Back to the movie and it
definitely surpassed my expectations (had high expectations for this
movie). The movie had some twist & turns, some good laughs and was
pretty intense. The movie starts off slow and then in the middle, it
started to get interesting because Jackson's character starts to act
like a lunatic and that's what so creepy about his character, he's very
creepy and crazy. He wants the interracial couple movers play by
(Wilson & Washington) to move out of his neighborhood and they don't
want to because they want it to start a nice life and try to give it a
few days so that they could work out their plans and have kids but Abel
Turner (Jackson) had other ideas. He has two kids and want to raise
them to be good kids and get respect the way he did in his childhood.
Suddenly, they both were looking at the couple making out in the
swimming pool and once Jackson's character sees that, he starts to get
crazy and wild!! All hell breaks loose from there!! It was a pretty
good movie, the performances were good, the plot was interesting and is
very entertaining!! It's well worth your 2 hours, go and see it!!!
<|_=00=_|>
A very well made psycho-thriller that stands at the top of a sub-genre
kick-started by Adrian Lyne's FATAL ATTRACTION in 1987. LAKEVIEW
TERRACE features Samuel L. Jackson in riveting form as the main
antagonist, a character who's not only the neighbour-from-hell but a
cop-from-hell too (imagine this guy on the beat with Ray Liotta's
character from UNLAWFUL ENTRY!). LAKEVIEW TERRACE sidesteps cliché
throughout  arguably until the climax, anyway  and delivers plenty of
suspense and thrills in its story of a racist-with-a-twist  this time
it's Jackson who's the racist, a guy who hates whites.

Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington are somewhat bland modern actors,
but the quality of the scripts drives them to give fairly good turns
here. The film belongs to Jackson in the end, though, and he keeps us
watching through thick and thin. Realism is often swept aside in these
types of production (I'm thinking of you, PACIFIC HEIGHTS) but not so
here. Neil LaBute has made some awful films (in fact his one before
this was the dire Nicolas Cage remake THE WICKER MAN) but Lakeview
Terrace is an unexpected delight  a high-calibre piece of professional
filmmaking that never disappoints.
