
It blows me away that people thought this movie was, "surprisingly
good." It's not. It's bad. Really really bad. Lets put it this way, I
have not walked out of a movie in who knows how long, since Ishtar? And
this was that bad. 

Yes I did laugh a few times. But Seth Rogen, just plays himself as he
has played that same character in dozens of other movies, except this
time he has money, a side kick and weapons, devised by the sidekick. He
plays Britt Read as a super loud and obnoxious character without being
endearing. Reid's not smart or witty, but brash and annoying. 

Now one could say that there are these great fight scenes thanks to
Kato (played by John Cho). But there so over the top special effects
laden as to be completely unreal and not enjoyable. It's like the
viewer is playing a video game when we see from Kato's perspective in a
fight.

The bad guy, has a bad guy insecurity complex with wanting to be
perceive as scary, but has a name that nobody can pronounce and of
course, owns and hide's out? at a cement/construction company. 

In the end, this movie is tedious, predictable, annoying, and worse,
unenjoyably campy. Save yourself the money and god forbid the 17$ it
costs to see it in 3d. Because 3d does nothing but make you angrier you
spent that much more money on a waste of 2 hours.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer got me all excited to watch this, but boooooy was I wrong.
I was really hoping this was going to be like Iron Man but instead it
felt like that darn Streetfighter film with Van Damme. Like
Streetfighter, the movie felt really short, because there was not much
of a plot. Heroes were generic and same with the villains. You see the
bad guy in the beginning, but there wasn't much character development
which made the villain very generic (which also made it obvious how the
story is going to end). Kato's role was generic as well, like he was a
typical Asian foreigner who does all the hard work but no play. Now I
understand why Nicolas Cage turned down the role of the villain and
same with Stephen Chow as Kato...lame. Besides the cheesy characters,
the fight scenes were done in slow motion which made it seem fake and
derivative of the Matrix, Seth Rogen (green hornet) was annoyingly loud
most of the time, I didn't really understand what Jay Chou (Kato) was
saying sometimes because of his heavy accent (which also made his
acting kind of wooden), and Cameron Diaz felt like she was there just
for star power for some reason. Even the action scenes (especially
towards the end) was very boring, (believe it or not I actually fell
asleep during the middle of an action scene), my brother tapped me on
my shoulder to wake me up. There was nothing in this movie that was
really interesting other than maybe the black beauty (green hornet's
car) and maybe his hornet gun, and that's about it. And what was up
with the 3- D? The glasses made the movie too dark and did nothing to
the experience (I am getting really sick of 3-D).
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I start ? See how long we can take one joke and stomp it to
death again and again and ( voice gradually fades ) ..Arrogant rich kid
blundering through life ; Smart sidekick does everything for hero who
doesn't get it .... The casting is so far off wack in this, Seth Rogen
who is supposed to be core of this film is just not convincing either
as rich playboy buffoon, or as a prospective crime fighter. He spends
the whole film being unsure of what he is doing there. The arch villain
even when he is shooting people is not the least scary. The humour is
crass, directing appalling. The few decent actors Tom Wilkinson, Edward
James Olmas just look embarrassed.

I notice there is no DC logo at the beginning, and someone should have
stopped this mess a long time before release. I guess having Mr Rogen
as producer probably didn't help.Its not that I don't like these type
of films; Iron Man is one of my all time favourites and Kick Ass does
what it says on the tin. Really - buy yourself a tin of Dulux, a 4 inch
brush,find a wall and slap it on. You'll find watching it dry a lot
more fun..
<|_=00=_|>
I never watched episodes of the TV series, nor have i read any of the
Green Hornet comics, though i doubt they were as lame and as silly as
this new movie adaptation of Green Hornet. because of the big adds and
billboards this movie has, i bought into that and decided to watch it
tonight, and i wish i have not !! i was expecting a cool superhero, a
crime fighter type of movie with a little a humor, but i was let down
and disappointed. it had too much humor it turned into a full comedy, a
cartoon. it became silly and ridiculous. the plot did not have anything
special, just another average superhero plot with some really silly and
lame parts " Spoiler AHEAD " >>> Hornet and Kato fighting over a girl
!! how silly is that <<<< END Spoiler

and i saw this in 3D, what a waste !!! nothing special about that
except for small parts of the action scenes, not really worth the
price. Some of the action scenes were cool, but not enough to save this
movie from being a failure. Also, Cameron Diaz role was unnecessary and
she was just one of the marketing aspects of this movie. the whole
thing was a Hollywood joke, just too much Hollywood !! please don't buy
into the big billboards and the charming adds, because this movie
really isn't good.

Im also surprised that some people are giving this good reviews,
probably they are either 10 year old kids, or people who watched it
drunk with a group of friends !
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why I went to see this, but I wish I could get my money
back. Wow, this movie was really irritating me. First of all, being of
an Asian descent myself, I expected Jay Chou's character Kato to be
somewhat represented fairly (with respect to Bruce Lee), but most of
the scenes have him doing all the hard work and not getting any action
from the ladies. There was a brief scene with Cameron Diaz, but nothing
happened. I find that kind of odd because Kato seems to be more of the
superhero than Seth Rogen's character Britt Reid as The Green Hornet,
and aren't superheroes suppose to get the ladies? There wasn't even a
romance other than a brief flirtation in the office. No offense to Jay
Chou fans, but his Asian accent wasn't very flattering either because
his role is of a stereotypical Asian martial arts expert that drives
Seth Rogen's character Britt Reid around as a chauffeur. And I
understand that's how the story goes with the characters, but I find
that kind of ironic because Bruce Lee tried to avoid the Asian
stereotype with the heavy accent. Besides the stereotypical Asian
accent, the fight scenes with Kato were interesting and pretty to look
at, but the fancy special effects also made the martial arts seem a
little fake. Instead of the real thing like Jackie Chan's or Jet Li's
fight scenes, I felt like I was watching a video game of a player going
through the motion. And I understand the fight was stylized to be
funny, but it felt more campy than funny (like all that was missing
were those big letters that said "POW!"). 

I also found Seth Rogen as The Green Hornet awkward to watch with his
overacting, obnoxious personality (which wasn't very likable throughout
the movie) and I understand he was trying to be funny too, but there
wasn't anything really all that humorous, despite some funny moments.
Overall, the film felt lazily produced and I agree with critics like
Ebert, there wasn't a well structured plot. It's as if Rogen wrote the
story to fit his type of characters that he portrays in every movie
(which also kind of ruins it for the followers of the comic) and I
understand it's just an adaptation but still, even a big time star like
Cameron Diaz's role seemed to be in the movie just for her name only.
And Christoph Waltz's portrayal of the villain wasn't very inspiring
either (kind of a waste of his talent), not like Inglourious Basterds. 

Also, I question the morals of the story. I'm not sure what Rogen and
Goldberg were thinking when they were developing the script considering
The Green Hornet TV show in the 60's wouldn't have been popular without
Bruce Lee. One of the themes about the movie was inequality between The
Green Hornet and Kato, and when the movie ended, the two decided to be
equal but it didn't seem like it. It felt like Kato is always going to
be in the background doing all the hard work without getting any credit
which is kind of a slap in the face to Bruce Lee because like I
mentioned, he did not want to be portrayed as a stereotypical Asian
man. That's one reason he left the U.S. for Hong Kong to pursue his
passion for cinema. One last thing, the 3D glasses made the movie too
dark, (it felt like a first shooter game) and did nothing to the
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Green Hornet" is a wanna be superhero movie trying to be original
by following the scheme of Seth Rogan's character Britt Reid to become
a superhero that is perceived as a criminal to the public. The problem
is that Britt Reid doesn't even deserve to be a superhero because his
coffee maker Kato (Jay Chou) is the one with "super powers". The only
things Britt Reid can do is be very obnoxious and use his money and
power of the press to sensationalize his character while giving no
credit to Kato. The origin of this story comes from "The Green
Hornet's" debut in 1936 on the radio. The character was created by
George W. Trendle and Frank Striker and has taken a journey through
various mediums in time including a comic book and television series in
the mid 1900s. However, its newest medium in 3D fails to capture the
spark that lit the character's way to fame. The lackluster film begins
with showing the bad relationship that Britt had with his father James
Reid (Tom Wilkinson) when he was a kid. This scene is followed by a
very special cameo appearance of James Franco while establishing the
ego of the character of criminal Benjamin Chudnofsky (Cristoph Waltz,
"Inglourious Bastards") and his aspiration to rake over the streets.
Chudnofsky later changes his name to "Bloodnofsky" in order to sound
scarier in his pursuit to take down Britt's alter ego "The Green
Hornet" which forms after his father dies from an allergic reaction to
a bee sting. As Britt's alter ego begins to take over the street solely
because of Kato who does not receive any recognition and their car "The
Black Beauty", a secret about Britt's father unfolds along with a love
triangle between Britt, Kato and Britt's new secretary Lenore Case
(Cameron Diaz)

The most memorable scene in the film is James Franco's cameo of the
criminal mastermind of the city. He receives a little less than five
minutes of screen time with Cristoph Waltz's character Chudnofsky who
work together to create a scene with great acting and a subtle comedic
undertone. After this scene it is an uphill battle for the characters
of Kato and Chudnofsky to salvage the remains of the film. Kato does
this with his skill and gadget repertoire while Chudnofsky strives to
boost his ego with decent one-liners.

The problems with the film do not necessarily stem from the subject
because the film really could have been a decent superhero movie.
Instead the two biggest problems fall into the categories of casting
and entertainment. Seth Rogan is actually a very funny guy and a decent
actor when he is cast in the right film as a supporting character ("The
Forty Year Old Virgin", "Funny People"), but when the spotlight is on
him in a film outside his genre repertoire bad things happen. Rogan is
completely out of his element with the role of Britt Reid and is not
able to do anything about it. He is not a likable character at all and
is completely overshadowed by Kato. The film should have been saved
from its entertainment factor, but fails on this account as well
because the film is downright boring. 

Boring is the word of the day when it comes to "The Green Hornet" which
should have abused the 3D medium with "The Black Beauty" and Kato's
heightened senses. However, a better name suited for the film is one
spoke of by Britt himself when he talks about his alter ego being named
"the Green Bee" exemplifying a boring undertone that would help keep
you away from theaters and waiting for DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been keeping my expectations low for this film and I'm glad that I
did. I was a big fan of the 60's television show, but I didn't watch
any episodes until the mid 90's; so I've been waiting almost 15 years
for a film adaptation on the Green Hornet.

The film is campy, the story is corny, the villain is wasted and Seth
Rogen wrote the script. Based on the plot and the dialogs, it's not a
well made movie; but it doesn't try to be. This movie could have been
written more seriously and be on the same map as a Christopher Nolan's
Batman film; but instead, it went on the road to be a comedic film with
a lot of explosions. Some stuff didn't work, other stuff was clever &
visually entertaining.

The stuff that I admired the most are the homage to the original
television show. There were some criticism to the 60's show about how
the Kato character was just a sidekick, butler, manservant, an aid or a
chauffeur to the Green Hornet. Bruce Lee didn't have much dialogs and
he didn't have much screen time. It was during the 60's and just having
an Asian-American to be an everyday character on a show was a big deal,
so I never saw that as an insult. In this movie, they make a HUGE deal
about that subject as Seth Rogen & Jay Chou are constantly arguing
about Kato's role throughout the whole film.

Other homage to the television show is a drawn image of Bruce Lee, Al
Hirt's theme "Flight of the Bumblebee" tune, and there's even a
scenario from my favorite episode that has been written into the movie.
The Black Beauty is also a very awesome car! The funny thing is that in
the TV show, the Black Beauty was a brand new & very recent 1966
Imperial Crown sedan. In the movie, it's the exact same vehicle; but
it's now a classical vintage car.

I saw the 3D version and there were very few sequences where the 3D
effects was worth the extra price of admission. I recommend saving your
money and watch the 2D version instead.

To finally sum everything up; the movie isn't good, but it brought back
my love for the characters inside the Green Hornet world. The film is
visually entertaining for what it is. I hope there's a sequel, but that
somebody else will write its screenplay.
<|_=00=_|>
"So this is what you want out of your life? This gives you sense of
fulfillment? I spend all night, writing about the corruption in this
town, and you do nothing." Jack Reid (Tom Wilkinson) to his son, Britt
(Green Hornet Seth Rogen) The Green Hornet is unlike most other
comic-book-hero film adaptation: Seth Rogen's slacker Hornet is a
dipstick without a clue about navigating the crime world while Kato (
pop star Jay Chou), his valet/associate, pretty much plays the Bruce
Lee/kung-fu role as cool, even when he's goofing with the Hornet, which
is most of the time. It is also a bromance with Cameron Diaz as Lenore
Case, a love interest who helps us get over the homoerotic subtext.

Geeks know the Green Hornet franchise well: radio show from 1936 to
1952; TV show in 1966 by the producers of the campy Batman TV series,
while Green Hornet's greatest asset was emerging martial arts star
Bruce Lee. Writers Rogen and Evan Goldberg renew that 60's camp but
with it seeming out of date, as if the parodic part of the genre cycle
had long ago been played out and not welcome anymore. Of course, you
could argue that Despicable Me, Kick Ass, Megamind, and Iron Man 2 last
year took to parody, but each one of those is more successful at
marrying the satire to the action than Green Hornet.

The personality of the film is splitit's either satire or action,
Hornet or Kato. The film is a bit away from the accepted concepts of
this sub-genre except in Chudnofsky (Christoph Waltz), the arch villain
whose ironic reactions are an adept amalgam of menace and insouciance.

As he did in Inglorious Basterds, Waltz commands the screen with his
charming menace. Actually he is equaled in the opening sequence, the
best scene of the movie, when he faces off James Franco in a cameo, two
hoods pissing about their territory. Franco is quite good as a
semi-clueless drug lord.

Britt has daddy issues, specifically making something of his life while
newspaper owner dad. Jack Reid (Tom Wilkinson), is a hero to the city.
With dad's death, Britt decides to fight crime as the Green Hornet
while letting everyone think he is a criminal (as in the original
versions).

The gadgets are Bond-worthy, and Kato has the Bruce Lee charisma; it's
just Rogen who seems out of placenot believable as a hero from
beginning to end of the film. He can be amusing as a man-kid, but the
geeks will never accept him as their hero.

The Green Hornet has lost its buzz.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched "The Green Hornet" with a sense of skepticism. Having grown
up with the original TV series, this movie really had some big shoes to
fill out. And surprisingly enough, it managed to do so in a good enough
way. But there were also aspects of the movie that were less than
successful.

First of all, Seth Rogen (playing Britt Reid/The Green Hornet). No, no,
no. I know he was involved in directing and writing the movie and all,
but he is not chiseled out for an action role of this caliber. I do
admire his spirit and enthusiasm, but he is more suited for comedy
movies. Seeing him in this role didn't go well with me. He did bring
along some comedy, but it didn't work so well in this particular movie.

And the scene at the beginning where Britt Reid was bringing home a
woman and they went through the garage and sat in all the cars (showing
them off for the audience, actually) in high-speed capture, what was up
with that? Already at that point, the movie started to falter and
crash.

Jay Chou (playing Kato) certainly had HUGE shoes to fill out after the
original role was played by Bruce Lee. And actually Chou did a decent
enough job, with good acting and well-choreographed action/fighting
sequences. So hats off to him for that.

However, the most memorable person in the movie was Christoph Waltz
(playing Chudnofsky). He was fantastic as a villain and worked his role
very well and very convincingly. Plus there was also a good sense of
humor to his role, and it worked well.

The story told in the movie was fast-paced, captivating and interesting
enough to keep you enthralled throughout the entire feature length.

For an action movie, then "The Green Hornet" is actually quite good.
But for a follow-up to the legacy of the TV series, the movie is a
mediocre attempt with good intentions. Had they cast someone else for
Britt Reid, it would have worked much better. Now, I am not saying that
Seth Rogen is a bad actor, he was just ill-suited for this role. "The
Green Hornet" is good entertainment if you are in for an evening of
action, corny one-liners and a trip down memory lane.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm getting sick of people who are angry with those of us who love the
Green Hornet, and want to defend the character from this piece of crap
movie. "Nobody knows him anyway" is what I hear a lot, but apparently
enough people in Hollywood knew of him, and thought enough of the name
to use it as a way to sell tickets instead of just creating a new
character. It is understandable that most people don't know very much
about the Green Hornet. He was created by George W. Trendle (who also
created the 'Lone Ranger'), during the hayday of radio dramas. Britt
Reid is actually a distant relative of John Reid a.k.a. the Lone
Ranger. Both were ahead of their time in-so-much as the heroes worked
with sidekicks very unusual for their time period. The Lone Ranger with
an Indian back in the old west, and when the Green Hornet premiered in
the 1940's it was unheard of for an oriental sidekick. In the old west
everyone thought the Lone Ranger was bad because he wore a mask. The
Green Hornet purposely wanted people to think he was bad. Neither Tonto
or Kato was written, or intended to be sub-servient. Kato was Britt
Reids assistant as part of his cover. The Green Hornet is "supposed" to
be a crime-boss, that's why he sits in the back of the car, NOT because
he just wants Kato to drive him around! Both men bring much to the
partnership, and both are excellent fighters, just in different styles.
Kato with martial arts, and Britt with 'street fighting' abilities.
They are also closer than brothers! Van Williams and Bruce Lee
understood this very well, and it came across in their screen time
together. Even watching the old TV show now there is no hint of Kato
being a 'lesser' person to Britt Reid.

OK, history lesson over, now on to this complete piece of trash. I
actually have no problem with the initial portrayal of Britt Reid as a
louse who parties all the time. The problem is he NEVER grows up! If he
had some redeeming qualities it might have been better. Perhaps a real
talent for journalism (which he had in the radio & TV shows), a 'buddy'
relationship with Kato, or even the lovable rich rogue somewhat like
Bruce Wayne. Seth Rogan has turned the Green Hornet into nothing more
than a reject from animal house. Why, after being nothing but a jerk to
everyone, would Rogan's character all of a sudden want to fight
crime!?!?!? I don't know when we went from partners being friends to
hating each other but working well together, but it's stupid. I don't
even particularly care for the guy playing Kato. He's a capable enough
actor, but he's no where near as cool as Bruce Lee, but that aside,
there is absolutely no reason for him to like, much less work with
Britt. We're supposed to believe that both of these guys hated Britt's
dad so much, that they are willing to work together, even though there
is really nothing to even suggest they are more than rich
guy/assistant. Lenore Case was not the 'mastermind' behind the Green
Hornet. She knew his identity and was able to help cover for him, and
help him in his guise as Britt Reid. She was a necessary part of the
team (and actually had a crush on Britt) but not the all controlling
figure that we are supposed to believe she is in this movie.

The bad guy with a problem of not being scary enough was great for
about 10 minutes. It created some pretty funny dialogue, but went on
for a hour and a half too long. This guy wasn't even worth Kato's time,
much less the Green Hornet. He could have been caught by T.J.Hooker.
Why do we need a superhero, if the bad guy is not REEEEAAALLY bad! I am
not naming the other actors because I'm sure that by being in a movie
with Seth Rogan is punishment enough. I wouldn't want my name
associated with this movie either.

If you've read this far I will say there are some things I liked. The
homage' to the TV series in costuming, and design of the Black Beauty,
as well as the switch in the garage were a nice touch. There is even a
great 30 sec. scene at the end with the old theme and logo popping up
that doesn't last long enough, but it was nice to see. Sadly, this
movie had so much promise. There are a lot of possibilities for this
character, and Rogan didn't seem to like any of them. If you're going
to make a movie about a doofass who becomes a superhero fine, but why
do you have to take established characters and destroy them. Please do
yourself a favor, seek out the old series with Van Williams & Bruce
Lee. It's a much better use of your time.
