
You may think that Charles Ferguson's documentary is filled with things
we already know. That's what I thought. But the truth of the matter is
I knew it like a rumor of sorts born and nurtured out of anger and
frustration. What this riveting documentary does is to show it to us
confirming what we thought we knew.The sadness is unbearable. The
clarity of what lays at the center of this absurdity is startling,
devastating. There were only five people in the theater. Why? I found
out about the existence of "No End In Sight" through a radio interview
with the film-maker. The film has been released practically in secrecy.
Everyone is flocking to see Chuck and Larry while this masterpiece that
concern us directly is practically ignored. I want to thank Charles
Ferguson for this enormous contribution to the truth. I believe he put
his own livelihood on the line for the privilege. Sir, you've just
become a hero of mine.
<|_=00=_|>
This was, bar none, the most informative and analytical documentary on
the war in Iraq I've seen thus far. Missing is the leftist rhetoric and
cleaver edits of Michael Moore (before I get tons of hate mail: I
usually agree with everything he says, I just disagree with his method
of presentation). In their place are the plain unadulterated cold hard
facts (think Frontline), which are more than damning enough. Think of
it as exhibit A in the trial of this administration in the court of
world opinion. A must see for anyone who still feels that this country
is worth living in (although you may find that conviction waning upon
exiting the theater).
<|_=00=_|>
It would be nice to think the terrible debacle of the US invasion and
occupation of Iraq of 2003 somehow just happened. That it was just a
mistake to go there. That things just went wrong. But as this excellent
new documentary shows, things went wrong for reasonsbecause of how the
war was planned and executed.

Or how it wasn't planned. How ultimately completely unqualified people
were left in charge. Here are some of the mistakes that No End in Sight
elucidates for us: 

1. Nobody knew anything. Out of a basic US cadre of roughly 130 people
first sent in to run things, only 5 knew Arabic. Nobody knew from
factions. What a Shiite and a Sunni and a Kurd were they found out
later. Instead of realizing what leaders would emerge (such as the most
popular man in Iraq now, Muqtada Sadr), the neo-cons sent in Ahmed
Chalabi, a corrupt exile without credibility or authority, believing he
would be the new leader. They didn't know how many troops were required
to maintain order, and Rumsfeld, trying to prove a cockeyed theory he
had no knowledge to support, chose too few. (Then Army Chief of Staf
General Eric Shinseki had pointed this out to the Senate before the war
even began.) 

2. Nobody, neither Americans nor Iraqis, was designated to maintain
order. Chaos reigned. "Stuff happens," said Rumsfeld. No: "stuff"
doesn't just happen: it's allowed to happen. As Seth Moulton, a young
Marine officer who is one of Ferguson's voices says, "We were Marines.
We could have stopped looting." But they were not directed to do so.
The troops, already too few, just stood around and watched as Baghdad
was torn apart, the national library burned, the national museum
looted. All the ministry buildings were dismantled and
lootedtellingly, only the Ministry of Petroleum was guarded. Baghdad's
water and electricity fell apart, and links with the rest of the
country turned into wild and dangerous interzones. Most important of
all for the maintenance of order, large caches of arms were unknown to
US troopsand insurgents pillaged them.

Iraq was lost in the first week of the occupation. But worse was yet to
come. And worse. And worse. A key moment was the replacement of ORHA,
The Office for Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance (ORHA),
headed by Jay Garner, which was not allowed to protect any of its
sites, by the CPA, the Coalition Provisional Authority, headed by the
arrogant Paul Bremer.

3. This is when the US destroyed the country's human infrastructure,
and in so doing sowed the seeds of insurgency and civil war. The
occupation fired the entire Iraqi standing army, half a million
officers and men alike, and dismissed and barred from work 50,000
"Baathist" government officials and employees. Rendering all these
people unemployed dealt a huge economic blow to the country in itself.
But far worse than that, it led to permanent conflictultimately to
civil war. It created many enemies, and it left no one to work with. At
this point the goodwill the Americans had won by toppling the despotic
regime of Saddam Hussein was lost. The violence and lawlessness that
had been allowed to proceed unchecked began to become organized. Began
to have a cause.

4. Many of the Americans sent in to help with occupation and
reconstruction had nothing to work with. Ambassador Barbara Bodine (in
charge of Baghdad in spring 2003) arrived to find offices supplied to
her and her staff that were empty rooms with no computers, not even
telephones. But as she says on screen, it didn't matter because they
had no phone listsand no one to call.

Nir Rosen is one of the most knowledgeable and independent American
journalists in Iraq and a producer and talking head of this film. As he
has recently said, Iraq today, four and a half years later, is a region
of city-states, a source of instability to the whole area, to Syria,
Jordan, Lebanon, Israel, Iran, even perhaps to Egypt. Pacifying and
controlling Baghdad no longer means anything because Baghdad doesn't
control the countryif you can call it a country. The US forces are
just another militia, the most hated but not the most effective.

First-time director Charles Ferguson gives us the various figures, the
cold facts, the cost, the numbers of dead and wounded. But what most
matters is what people have to say, and Ferguson has assembled some key
talking heads. These include former Secretary of State Richard
Armitage, Ambassador Bodine, Colin Powell's former chief of staff Col.
Lawrence Wilkerson, Col. James Hodges, soon-replaced Iraq viceroy Jay
Garner (who like others strenuously objected to the dismissal of the
army and the debathification, but was ignored by his replacement, Paul
Bremer), Bremer adviser Walter Slocombe, frustrated ORHA functionary
Paul Hughes, and other diplomats, journalists, officers, and enlisted
personnel who were there in Iraq after the invasion.

Ferguson has a doctorate from MIT, where he has taught; is a member of
the Council on Foreign Relations and the Brookings Institution (he's an
insider!); and has authored three books on information technology. His
approach is analytical. The basic problem was that the usual
suspectsBush, Cheney, Rumsfeld, & Co.had spent virtually no time on
planning the aftermath of "Shock and Awe"--the occupation. It was all
planned, skimpily, at the last minute, deliberately ignoring all the
experts' advice.

No End in Sight is not so much an indictment or a polemic or a proposal
as a post-mortem. Its aim is to lay out the whole devolution process
that took place under US control of Iraq. Never mind the run-up to the
war, the justifications, the aims. Here is the story that shows the
situation might have been handled better. Things are much worse.

We get to see a lot of political documentaries now so we have learned
to judge them. This is a very fine oneand for Americans an essential
one.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes seeing a documentary that has such immense and complex
connotations like the war on Iraq can be so staggering that one might
be tempted to rate it highly just based on how compelling the subject
matter is. That part of it, of whether it's worthy for a documentary,
is important. But first-time director Ferguson does an incredible job
of amounting crucial interviews with former Generals and government
officials, ex-soldiers, enough footage of Iraq destruction for two or
more movies, and a mounting sense of dread over the unequivocal fiasco
that what went on leading up to-during-and especially after America
invaded Iraq, and the film was more than worthy of a special jury prize
at Sundance earlier this year.

It's devastating and infuriating enough to get the people you might be
with seeing the film into a heated argument (probably with everyone on
the side, at least, that it was profoundly stupid to go into the
country to start with, without a real plan anyway), because of the
layers that can be taken into account. If one watched the news enough,
or read what was available at the time, then some of the information
may not be all new-news. But a lot of it is, which throws on fuel to
the fire for Ferguson's thesis that with all the mounting mistakes, the
most crucial ones came in taking for granted what would happen if say,
for example, the Iraqi army was disbanded along with the Ba'ath party
(if that's how it's spelled). Interestingly, Ferguson doesn't spend too
much time on the blunder that was going into Iraq in the first place;
that's for other films and he knows it well (namely Fahrenheit 9/11). 

We went in. Now 'what to do next' is really where the cards are all
layed out: the looting and rioting, which went on for days and ruined
many of Iraq's small places of civilization like museums and libraries
(which, of course, Rumsfeld and the US didn't mind and practically
encouraged), then after that the whole huge f*** up that was the lack
of real planning for after we toppled Sadaam's regime (for Germany
after WW2 the plan was layed out two years in advance, for Iraq it
started 50 days before the invasion), and very notably Walter B.
Slocombe (who comes off stumbling through his interview as he can't
answer why he wasn't talking to other advisers about the plans of what
to do with the Iraq security) and L Paul Bremer, who crafted the three
plans for reconstituting Iraq, which basically created the Insurgency.
That part, of course, is a big chunk of No End in Sight, with the
blunders continuing on and gaining force with the US involvement in
Iraq.

So the question comes first to those thinking about the questions
Ferguson lays out through his interview, aside from how in the living
hell (literally, if you're over in Iraq) we've now spend two *trillion*
dollars over there, which is: Why? To get a documentary like that now
probably would make a big enough uproar to get people in the streets.
But for now, No End in Sight will have to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Summed up in this documentary film are the decisions and consequences
of invading Iraq. It is presented in a factual and nonhumourous manner,
without apparent axe to grind.

Iraq was invaded for what were certainly dubious reasons, which have
each come to light and been discredited in turn since the invasion,
including the Joseph Wilson/Valerie Plame affair. Eventually President
George W. Bush would distance himself from the original WMD and
terrorism claims used to justify invasion of this country and would be
somewhere along the lines of it being a justifiable thing to depose a
dictator who killed his own countrymen.

Present are interviews with people on the ground or deeply involved in
Iraq from former administration people such as Richard Armitage to
Office for Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance (ORHA), United
Nations, soldiers and Iraqi people. The tally is grim as each tells of
of the arrogance, mismanagement or blind stupidity which contributes to
the situation in Iraq.

As a student of World War II I was utterly flummoxed by the decision to
route the Ba'athists from their jobs and to disband a military of
500,000 professional soldiers, leaving them no way to support their
families. Following the tide of the allies across Germany, local
police, politicians and government workers were largely left in place
to maintain order and services so as not to encumber the allied effort.
After victory was achieved came the search for and punishment of the
guilty.

But in Iraq the failure to follow a successful lesson from the past led
to looting (while marines without orders to prevent it, stood by) and
destruction of the institutions the people of Iraq would need to depend
upon. In two fell swoops L. Paul Bremmer declared over half a million
Iraqis guilty and condemned them for being members of the Ba'athist
Party or Saddam's military. How utterly blind and foolish this shows
when the viewer can see compressed into the span of a film how missteps
contributed to the worsening of conditions and the mounting cost of
operations. Small wonder Iraqis despise Americans when the viewer sees
a segment of film made by a contractor, shooting innocent Iraqis from
the back of a truck with impunity.

Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld comes across as a glib conductor
of public relations as things descend into chaos and the viewer will be
left with the impression he was not merely inept, but a blithering
idiot. I'm not convinced Rumsfeld was a fool, but clearly a lot of
things were done wrong and it all smells like a Bay of Pigs mentality.

Everyone should see this and were it within my means I would sponsor
its screening on prime time television so all people have the means to
see the path of errors and the will to turn blind eyes which lead to
this humanitarian disaster.

As of today, Iraq is a fractured nation of religious parties and
warlords vying for power. Militias are large, well armed and ruthless.
Pulling out will certainly mean a bloodbath, but remaining in Iraq will
only hold off the inevitable. Pandoras box is truly emptied and there's
very little hope left. Tragically a few intelligent decisions here and
there which could have made the difference were not made. For want of a
nail the kingdom was lost.
<|_=00=_|>
As a military brat, I wanted to see if it was the military or the
Cabinet that was making poor decisions about the Iraqi invasion and the
years of occupation. Charles Ferguson presented a well laid out
chronological story from 9/11/2001 (the Pentagon scenes were especially
tearful, we forget that was hit by a plane as well) to the present.
Especially interesting was the history between Iran and Iraqi, and I
remember the day in 1979 when we knew of American military families
that had to leave in the middle of the night from Tehran. America's
backing of Hussein then caught up with us in the 90's. Bush's
administration was looking for a connection - WMDs, Al-Qada, something.

I was impressed with the candor of Richard Armitage, Col Paul Hughes,
and even with Walter Slocombe. The interviews were interesting, honest,
and true.

Last week I watched "Saving Private Ryan" for the first time, and
understood that we sent in 350,000 troops to Normandy during and after
D-Day. Our ability to have that kind of troop deployment is over, as is
the Cold War. Instead we are creating a ticking time bomb (much like we
did in backing Hussein against Khomeini in 1980) that I hope will not
create instability world wide.

I'm planning on buying multiple copies of this DVD - it is that
important, not only for now, but in campaign issues in the next year.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie every American must see. Tens of thousands of Iraqis
killed, thousands of brave American soldiers killed or maimed, all for
no apparent reason than the arrogance of this administration. Many good
people, administrators, military etc. speak out in this movie and give
a chilling view of the ineptitude and arrogance of George Bush and co.
Unfortunately, these people were not consulted in the beginning of the
occupation. Instead, they were pushed aside, as clueless and even
malevolent bureaucrats, such as Bremmer, Holcombe, Wolfowitz, Rice,
Rumsfeld, Cheney and Bush, mangled every aspect of the American
occupation, one after the other, causing in the process an unimaginable
loss of human life and resources. The movie's creators do not impose
their beliefs on you. Instead, they let the testimonies of the people
who were there speak for themselves. The conclusion that comes out of
it is inescapable. This has been the largest quagmire in American
history, the true cost of which will not be known for decades. It truly
is a nightmare with no end in sight.
<|_=00=_|>
As you may have inferred from my many sardonic comments about the
neocons, I oppose the war in Iraq. The documentary No End in Sight
confirms my opinion not shared by everyone to be sure. But this
documentary, written, directed, and produced by Charles Ferguson, an
information technology expert and member of the Council on Foreign
Relations and the Brookings Institution, shows in a rare
non-ideological way, the mistakes made up to and during the Iraq
invasion.

This is not an incendiary Michael Moore screed; it puts the left's
argument in cool, rational light for the right to see clearly and
attack as is its right. Ferguson grimly reminds us that information
about the absence of WMD's was ignored to further an agenda that began
immediately after 9/11 with the order to confirm a link between
Al-Qaeda and Hussein's Ba'athist regime.

If you want more insanity, how about the order to disband the entire
Iraqi army and Ba'ath party members from government service. That 2004
brought an insurgency of disaffected Sunni men who could have been
serving in the necessary local army was no surprise. Secretary of
Defense Donald Rumsfeld's lack of preparation for post-invasion
operations is just another depressing fact brought out by this sober,
if not surprising or dramatically compelling documentary.

If you read the New York Times, you won't need the information in No
End in Sight, but Ferguson puts it together so carefully and
responsibly you might want to refer to it as you debate the neocons who
claim the surge is working and the end is in sight. They need glasses,
and not rose colored ones. But then retaining political power does
mighty strange things to one's vision.
<|_=00=_|>
In retrospect, I suppose 2007 will go down as the year in which
filmmakers began addressing the problems in Iraq. The number of
Iraq-themed films has piled up and disappeared at a breathtaking pace.
Maybe it's not a surprise that the best of them so far is the one that
doesn't try to turn the conflict into something fictional. All of the
other Iraq movies have been well intentioned but limp; you can tell
they want to address what's wrong without truly enraging anyone. Well,
Charles Ferguson, the writer and director of "No End in Sight," has no
such qualms, and his film enrages indeed.

Meticulously crafted, "No End in Sight" proves what everyone has
already known for a long time: the Iraq conflict is a complete
disaster. The film is certainly biased; anyone who wants to discount it
based on that fact is welcome to. But anyone who wants to deny that
America's handling of post-invasion Iraq has been anything but a
complete "quagmire" (to borrow a word from the film) is hopelessly
deluded. "No End in Sight" is not about whether or not the war in Iraq
was justified; in fact, the film goes out of its way to affirm that at
first many Iraqis were happy that the U.S. had deposed Saddam Hussein.
Rather, the film is about what went wrong after the invasion, about how
groups that actually had a reconstruction plan were met with
indifference at every step by an administration that really cared
nothing for the Iraqi people even as they fed the American public a lot
of hooey about bringing freedom and democracy to them. This film makes
clear that for all of its recent talk about dangerous nations
destabilizing the world's peace, the United States is one of the most
dangerous countries currently in existence.

It's terrifying that governments are run like this; if this film is
accurate, my office at work is better managed than the project for
occupying post-war Iraq. Ferguson can't be blamed if his film seems one
sided. None of the key decision makers managing Iraq policy -- Cheney,
Rumsfeld, Rice, Bremer -- agreed to be interviewed for the film. The
only consolation the film offers is that Cheney, Bush and Rumsfeld now
look like complete fools. Either they thought they had a good plan for
rebuilding Iraq and proved themselves to be ridiculously incompetent;
or (and more likely) they never really cared about what happened to
Iraq in the first place and have proved themselves to be downright
scary.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
Good film, a well done documentary. Most outstanding achievement was
its balance- this is no Mikey Moore ultra-leftist propaganda
"mockumentary". It makes salient points and lets the audience draw its
own intellectual conclusions. It was the final nail in the coffin for
me- i have no faith left in gov't. I recommend this to anybody who's
politically involved. It's a bit slow, you have to have a solid
attention span to stay involved. I wonder why several key people
declined to be interviewed? Pres Bush was cited as not having read
numerous key reports, i wonder why not? Why do so many people defend
this absolutely unwarranted (and illegal) war? When did Congress
declare war on Iraq? How could we have legally invaded without this
declaration?
