
After waiting extremely eagerly for this movie, I sat in the theater
and was extremely eager for it to END. Ear-oh? Oong? Soak-ah?! Could
they have butchered the names anymore than they did? Worse, the entire
movie felt like a string of clips put together for an hour and a half
and not like a movie at all. All the major parts of the Book of Water
were skimmed over, while things like the freeing of the earth nation
village (while important) were given screen time that could have been
given to major events like the southern air temple.

The actors were dismal, with the exception of Dev Patel as Zuko and to
a lesser extent Shaun Toub as Iroh, who wasn't an accurate portrayal of
Iroh visually but at least captured the character's wisdom much better
than many of the other actors on board for the movie. He however failed
to provide many of the aspects of Iroh that made him endearing in the
series.

I will give that the northern water kingdom was gorgeous, but that's
about all I have to say kindly about this movie.

If you love Avatar: The Last Airbender as the series, I recommend
giving this movie a miss. It's heartbreaking how they butchered
something that had such fantastic and barely needing change source
material.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see the Midnight showing of The Last Airbender tonight. I am
a huge fan of the series and had been awaiting this movie for months. I
understood that this was to be a children's movie, but the series was
for children as well and I loved that. What could go wrong? This movie
was a cinematic abomination. The entire movie, which covers the first
"Book" of the series is rushed together and jumps around in a totally
nonsensical manner. There is absolutely NO time spent on
characterization. None of the characters had any depth at all and may
as well have been cardboard cutouts. Major plot points are summarized
through narration or montage and the film would leave any person not
familiar with the story absolutely dumbfounded. With all of my heart I
discourage you from seeing this movie. Go see Karate Kid. Go see
Killers. Go see (I cannot believe I am saying this) Eclipse. Just stay
away from this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I would like to share my son's review. He just turned 8 and dictated as
his dad typed: 

I just hate it so bad!!!

I'm a HUGE fan of the the cartoons. I have the whole series, including
Water, Earth and Fire. 

It was a HUGE disappointment because even by the time I saw the
commercial, I knew it would be completely crushing! 

I mean, the characters! Iroh was the greatest disappointment. He was
not kind and wise enough. And also he was not old enough. 

And why can't they say anyone's name right!???

I thought it was completely disrespectful to put the characters skin
colors the opposite. 

After the first twenty minutes of it I was bored already but I have to
say the effects were decent. 

And the Avatar did not have enough happiness in him! I think it's
important to the movie. Aang is the main character of the movie, and he
should at least get a little more happiness inside of him! 

When I got home that night I had to watch the cartoon series for some
time to completely forget about the movie! 

And... actually, I'm watching it right now! 

If anybody wanted to see this movie I would suggest they close their
eyes and ears!!!

*********************

Dad's two cents:

My son became interested in Avatar the Last Air Bender, the animated
series at age 4.

I bought him the entire series on DVD as soon as the episodes were
available and he and I devoured every episode, again and again. 

Compared to the magnificently crafted animated series, I'd have to say
the live action movie was an abysmal embarrassment, a sophomoric and
vapid display of ignorance. 

Go rent or buy the animated series instead. I think it's some of the
best fiction ever written for children. It's incredible. It's an epic
parable dealing with sophisticated philosophical, cultural, emotional
and spiritual issues which have plagued human civilization since the
emergence of reason. And it does it with lightheartedness and joy. The
theme deals with no less than issues of greed, power, spirituality, and
the formation of identity and moral values. It grapples with the ideals
of pacifism. It teaches teamwork, compassion, empathy and humility. It
exemplifies wisdom and the appreciation of art, nature and
connectedness - connectedness to each other, to nature, to animals, to
the universe, and emphasizes detachment from possession. The story line
traverses goofy playfulness, tween and young teen crushes and love,
family power dynamics, friendship, mental illness, and gut wrenching
loss. And it's an incredible primer for Eastern spiritual ideals and
mythology. 

But these things can't be achieved effectively without superb
craftsmanship. So beautifully wrought is this story that the fun,
action and struggles are adeptly punctuated with moving poignancy. 

The live action version is NONE of these things. No insight, no depth
of character, only the most cursory references of some of the core
thematic values of the animated series, and those done so poorly as to
come off as just... pathetically trite. 

The thing I find most upsetting regarding the failure of this movie to
deliver is that the original animated series covers all of what I find
to be the best of Eastern culture, and we Westerners need to understand
these things in this global community. Buddhist and Confucian ideals
and philosophies are front and center and, in my mind, are the greatest
gifts the East has to offer the world, and the very things that are
most clearly in danger of vanishing in the face of the West's
insignificant obsession with material gain and conspicuous consumption.

And another thing, too. It's typical that this story was handled on the
level it was - dismissively. Adults appear to be largely disinterested
in the profound turmoil in which children are engaged as they enter
their teens. They are forming their value systems, they are trying to
reconcile reality with fantasy and desire. They are trying to find the
balance between selfishness and empathy. They are finding what it means
to be themselves, members of a community, and a species on the planet.
They are in agony grappling with issues we were happy to leave behind.
But these struggles are never truly resolved, and our ideas of who we
are and how we fit in the world cannot remain fixed, and, yet, when
they are challenged, we adults consider ourselves to be in a state of
crisis, when that is the perpetual state of being of a young teen. And
I would argue it's a state of flux that we should never leave, that we
should always be questioning ourselves, our figures of authority, and
our place in the world and in relation to those around us. I do not see
these struggles as juvenile, but human, and the animated series brings
all these struggles to mind. Sadly, the movie did little to bring the
richness of these struggles to life. 

In my most critical mood, I would say this failure is deeply offensive
to my sensibilities as a human being.

But on the other hand, not everyone has the depth of vision and
creative genius to pull off what admittedly would be a very challenging
feat. I just wish I could see what David Lean could have done with this
story.
<|_=00=_|>
Shyamalan takes a stunningly sophisticated cartoon and reduces it to
one of the most insultingly dumb films I've seen in years. From the
script to the visuals, the directing, the acting, there is absolutely
nothing that did well, either as an adaptation or as a film in its own
right.

Characters who were once powerful and spitfire (Katara) or
entertainingly sarcastic (Sokka) are now bland and exist solely for the
purpose of exposition. In fact, the entire film comes off as
exposition, far too much of the dialog serving as "by the way"
explanations, never allowing the plot or characters to really take
form. The scenes seem episodic and unconnected, and the film never
comfortably establishes its universe, always retreading with an "as you
know" or "aren't you that guy who..." to establish (often unnecessary)
continuity.

The style, too, is disappointing, capturing none of the magic of the
series. Most noticeable was the "bending"--while the series took its
martial arts seriously, carefully aligning real-world arts with
elements and making the benders' movements coincide with those of their
elements, the film gives us characters flailing in generic martial arts
forms for a few minutes, only to effect one splash, boulder, or blast
of fire. In the series, every movement had a meaning; in the film, only
about one in ten does.

Many fans of the series who were angry at the "whitewashing" of the
cast hoped that it had at least resulted in the best actors for the
parts. However, the acting was at best uninspired, and at worst
painfully awkward, though part of this can be attributed to a truly
atrocious script. Dialog is stilted and unnatural, certain phrases are
repeated needlessly throughout ("great library," anyone?), and in all
the only chance the script stands of being remembered is through
memetic appreciation of its unintentional, awkward hilarity.

Not even the collective will of a devoted fanbase wanting so much for
this film to be good could make it even remotely watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into this movie with pretty low expectations. I didn't expect
something as good as the cartoon, I didn't expect a perfect adaptation.
I expected some glitzy action sequences, cheap emotional ploys, just
some fun summer fair.

What did I get? A movie so indescribably horrible I can only shake my
head in bewilderment. Believe the critics. The writing sucks, the
acting is stiff, the pacing clumsy, the 3-D beyond bad, the overall
tone way too dark and brooding. Not much here is salvageable.

Obviously Shyamalan got completely caught up in the mythology of the
world and missed the fact that what made the original cartoon so great
were the CHARACTERS. Of which there are none in this film.

But really, even just a competently produced film would have been nice.
And it almost was. The music was great. The special effects looked
amazing, I don't care what anyone says. The fighting was cool. The sets
were adequately spectacular. Indeed, it appears the only one who didn't
show up for work was Shyamalan. While the adult actors manage to find
their way somewhat on their own, the poor kids are obviously lost
without someone competently leading them, they spend most of the film
in a bewildered daze. Even some of the background extras acted
awkwardly. But of course, there are no real survivors of Shyamalan's
CLUNKER of a script. I can't believe someone didn't stop this guy.
There were maybe two scenes that didn't sound awkward, and they had no
dialog. I don't think any film has ever been such a disaster due to one
man's gross ineptitude.

Such a shame. It could have been so good.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this, I don't know what to call it. It was the only movie I've
seen where everyone in the theater booed at the end and threw things at
the screen. I feel like it was written by someone who can't read, write
or care about their or anyone else's work. How do you take something
that seemed like such a good idea and make it so terrible. I hope that
the man or men responsible for this never get work again. This is what
I would hope qualifies as a career killer, because I wish I had slept
instead of going to this movie. I want my money, time, and expectations
back. As in I expected at least good fun with the 'bending' or
fight/dance scenes. I feel like I just got served... Do not watch or
let ANYONE YOU KNOW GO TO THIS MOVIE, AND SOMEONE SHOULD PETITION TO
CANCEL THE OTHER TWO(three?).
<|_=00=_|>
M.Night.Shyamalan ought to be ashamed of himself. I went to the
midnight premier of the Last Airbender as a hopeful long time fan of
the wonderful animated series. Less than thirty minutes into the
feature however I realized that my hopes would be dead on the ground by
the time the movie ended.

Over the past few months this film has been surrounded by controversy.
The casting choices have caused accusations of racism to be leveled and
many fans were left feeling disappointed months before the film even
premiered. Now, I don't think M.Night Shyamalan is a racist. I don't
know him well enough to make such a slanderous claim. Would I have
preferred that the characters in the movie had appeared as the fans had
come to know them over the past five years? Of course. However at the
heart of Avatar fans, I don't think changing the appearances of certain
nations was a racial issue. Simply put, I think people just wanted the
characters to look the way they were supposed to look. However, had
this movie been written well and had the acting been terrific, changing
the appearances of the nations wouldn't have mattered. Because at its
heart the story of Avatar is a human story with strong themes of
redemption and forgiveness. I think people would have been able to look
past their disgruntlement and see the beauty of the story. That is, if
the movie had been well written. And I'm sorry to say, it was not. 

Naturally, it was always going to be difficult to condense over eight
hours worth of animated material into two-hours of movie. How do you
choose what goes and what stays in a series where almost everything is
interconnected? It was a daunting task indeed. But successful adaption
of books, television series, and even video games have been done
before. If the works of Tolkien, the master of intricate detail, could
be adapted into a series that left a decent amount of his life long
fans pleased, surely Avatar: The Last Airbender could be adapted with
the same success. Unfortunately, this adaption was far from successful.
In fact I think this movie officially joins the list of the most
atrocious film adaptions, right along side of the horrendous Earthsea
mini-series, the painful Eragon flop, and perhaps the even worse Dark
is Rising catastrophe. 

So where did this movie go wrong? The better question would be: where
didn't it go wrong? The writing was horrendous. High school freshmen
could probably manage to come up with a better screenplay. I'm not sure
who gave Shyamalan permission to write this film, but whoever it was
needs to formally apologize to the fans and to the people who wasted
their money hoping to see something worthwhile. The direction was
choppycertain scenes made little sense, the camera lingered on other
similarly senseless scenes, and at times the camera angles were
difficult to follow. The lighting in the film was too dark throughout
and when color was added, it was in too much excess. Overall, there was
a lack of balance and cohesion in the way this movie was filmed. The
plot was a mess. People who weren't familiar with the series would have
been left lost, and people who were familiar with the series were left
confused. Certain characters that were supposed to do things didn't,
lines weren't said when they should have been said, and elements of the
plot were just erased entirely. There was no Avatar Roku, only a dragon
spirit that may have been an attempt at Fang, but a very bad one. There
was no Omashu, no Kiyoshi warriors, there were no refugees at the
northern air temple and Aang never attempted to master fire bending. In
fact, in the movie he was too timid to learn water bending, which fans
know to be a fallacy. And the characters that were featured were not
only acted and written poorly, but many of them modeled new
pronunciations of their names. I'm not sure of the reasoning behind
this. Perhaps the changes in pronunciation were more accurate. Even if
that was the case, they never should have strayed from the
pronunciations in the series. Fans grew accustomed to a certain way of
a saying and hearing a name. To change the pronunciations only led to
confusion and distastes. I heard many people in the theatre around me
growling in frustration every time Aang was pronounced "Ah-ng". 

I won't get into my dislike of the graphics in detail. Appa and Momo
were fairly horrendous, the bending was decent but done
incorrectly(actors had to make a hell of a lot of movement for anything
to happen, whereas in the series each movement corresponds to the
movement of the elements), and the 3D was pointless.

Overall, I'd give this movie a 0 out of 10. Fans of the series, don't
waste your money. People who are not fans and areconsidering giving
this film a chance, use the money you would have spent on the ticket to
rent the first season at the nearest video store.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into the movie knowing it would not be even a fraction as good
as the real show. However, I didn't know that would make me literally
want to leave the theater in the middle of the very movie. How someone
could do such damage in approximately an hour and forty minutes is
entirely beyond me. It was ridiculous, the only way to describe it is a
$150 million dollar failure. I could understand if the effects were not
up to par but the biggest disappointment was the acting. It was so
stiff and it never once felt like the actors meant a word they were
saying. I caught a glimpse of an interview with Nicola Peltz and
Jackson Rathbone on TV and even their approach to that felt so wrong.
It felt kind of disgusting to see as I've lately been watching Avatar:
The Last Airbender (with extras) almost religiously for the past month.

The script in itself should have been tossed into the garbage and burnt
and it's remains locked away so that no one would ever have to suffer
looking at such garbage. That's why I'm not really sure if it's the
actors or the script that's really to blame for the atrocious "movie"
that's resulted. The long and, I'm assuming this what they were going
for, "inspirational" speeches merely consisted of crudely strung
together clichés and the language left much to be desired. I found
myself almost twitching at the phrase (something along the lines) "You
guys are AWESOME people!"...

What I find the be so incredibly amazing is how someone could honestly
fail to such a proportion when they literally have a blue print already
created. The fans know how the characters look and sound and while I
understand that no one fits the package perfectly one out of two would
be better than nothing. As well, suddenly deciding to change the
pronunciation of the characters name is definitely not the best idea,
while I do understand that he wanted the names to sound like their
Asian origin, it didn't go over well and the whole time I was just
cringing at the mere mention of Aang and Sokka's names.

This movie does not hold a candle to the original show. Heck, it should
be retitled as it is hardly resembles the original in any way shape or
form. While I do realize that not all episodes can be featured, the
sequence of events just left you feeling awkward and confused. I, also,
loathed the way they worked the bending in like it took five minutes of
moving ones hands around awkwardly before any actual bending occurred.
Most of the fighting was like fifteen minutes of martial arts with like
the occasional bit of air bending and a little water being splashed
around.

There was nothing to love in this movie not even the most adorable of
characters such as Momo. Momo had literally what three minutes in the
entire movie which I found extremely depressing as Momo was always one
of the characters I just wanted to cuddle because of his adorable
mannerisms but in the movie I had no love for the digitized Momo. Not
even Appa was interesting.

This movie leaves me hoping and praying that M. Night Shyamalan goes
broke and is black listed so that he can't ruin the series even more
so. This is definitely something you will spend some time just trying
to forget.
<|_=00=_|>
First off... Did M. Night Shyamalan even watch the Avatar series on TV?
Or take a glance at it? Also, Dante Basco, the original voice actor
said that he would be interested in playing Zuko, but they made the
cast predominantly white. The show was based in Asia, how do you screw
that up? It was White people, Arabic people, and Hispanics.. Now, there
is nothing wrong with any of those ethnicities (I'm white) but, none of
them looked Asian. If you have seen the series, you'll hate it, if you
haven't seen the series, the lack of plot line and the anti-climatic
story will make you hate it even more: seeing as how you won't
understand what you just watched for almost 2 hours.

This movie was horrible. Don't waste your time. M. Night Shyamalan re-
wrote the movie, it wasn't even funny... it's a waste of time.

I hope he paid the actors well, because they had to do a really crappy
job for him.
