
Sam Peckinpah's "Straw Dogs" remains a most disturbing, morally
ambiguous confrontation between the brute code of uneducated farmboys
with the complex attempts at rationalization by a sophisticated,
neurotic, hyper-educated urban college professor attempting to escape
the responsibilities of living in an increasingly complex world. It is
also a magnificently constructed motion picture, elegantly
photographed, brilliantly edited, hauntingly scored, with powerhouse
performances from every actor.

This wholly unnecessary remake on the other hand is amateurish swill -
banal photography, drama-class acting (and why not? all the characters
have been reduced to caricature), and soap-opera rewriting. It's
basically a television movie with some sex and violence thrown in for
the fan-boy crowd. It's even got the requisite car-chases, and
supposedly pointed dialog about adultery and motivations, blah blah
blah.

Graceless, visually dull, with no sympathetic characters, but a lotta
boom! crash! foe those who think loud noises and pyrotechnics make up
for lack of intelligence and imagination.
<|_=00=_|>
An embarrassing attempted 'remake' of a great piece of film making, by
a cast and crew who evidently have no idea what the original was all
about. 

Peckinpah's original raised questions - you left the theater feeling
awkward, self-conscious, asking the same question the lead character
was asking himself - 'how do I find my way home now?' This
pseudo-remake leaves you wondering, "Is it over yet? Why did I waste
money on this? Won't this be show up on DVD soon?"

Because that's all it is, a poorly made routine B movie - part domestic
melodrama, part crime shocker, aimed at the DVD market.

Wholly forgettable, with blasé cinematography, second rate photography
- utterly forgetful.

See the original - a strange, uncomfortable and difficult but
insightful film that holds its own after 4 decades.
<|_=00=_|>
This remake has no reason to exist. It is shallow and poorly acted and
lacks most of the tense emotions and moral questions raised by the
original. Hollywood at its worst, cellophane-wrapped, uninspired,
made-for-TV quality, cookie cutter remake. Of course, it is padded with
clichés, cheap effects and mass-appeal frosting to bring out brain-dead
teen movie goers. Why did a great actor like James Wood let himself get
suckered into this disaster? This could have been an so-so B-action
movie but trying to cash in on the status of Sam Peckinpah's cult
classic is a really cheap move. It also forces me to give it a 1-star
rating rather than a 4 to 5 rating it could have earned if it didn't
ask to be compared with the former. 

If you consider watching this movie, please rent the original instead.
It is still as intense as it was in 1971 and actually raises a lot of
disturbing questions. A true classic.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a testament to the power of Straw Dogs' story (Sam Peckinpah's
adaptation of Gordon Williams' novel) that the 2011 remake is still
entertaining despite its numerous shortcomings in both complexity and
artistry to its predecessor. Director Rod Lurie's retelling trades
conflicted characters and intricate ideals of bravery and cowardice
with plain-dealing motives and basic revenge; Peckinpah's flair for
operatic visuals is sadly absent. So too is the contemplative nature of
the whole affair  the ambiguity and subtleties within every
character's actions have been replaced with spoon-fed notions of right
and wrong. It's impossible to avoid comparison to the original film,
and doing so would be a disservice to the discerning viewer. Those that
loved Peckinpah's creation will likely find little value in Lurie's
version, but for those who haven't seen it, the remake does offer a
humble taste of the brilliance you're missing out on.

Screenwriter David Sumner (James Marsden) and his wife Amy (Kate
Bosworth) move to her old hometown of Blackwater, Mississippi with the
hopes of peace and quiet so he can write his newest script. When Amy's
former boyfriend Charlie (Alexander Skarsgard) and his buddies Bic
(Drew Powell), Chris (Billy Lush), and Norman (Rhys Coiro) are hired to
repair the Sumners' garage, the bullying of David and unwelcome
advances toward Amy begin. As the taunts and threats steadily escalate
to a horrific act of violence, David must take a stand and defend his
new home with an equal force of savagery.

Everything questionable, objectionable and controversial about the
original Straw Dogs has been finely filtered out, leaving a
straightforward, simple revenge story. None of the artistic violence,
symbolic editing or jarring music remains. This update goes so far as
to spell out the significance of the title, as well as adding the line
"maybe you should wear a bra," which drastically dumbs down the purpose
of Amy's appearance. If it weren't for the fact that the target
audience is likely to have no knowledge of the 1971 version's
existence, this level of defining, dulling and allaying disputatious
content would be insulting. Extra references to the predominant themes,
such as the inclusion of research on Stalingrad, further add to the
intellectual affront.

Minor details have changed but the basic ideas are still present. Some
of the original dialogue is reused (including snippet jokes that are no
longer relevant), several scenes are nearly identical, a few props
reappear, and even a couple of camera angles pay homage to Sam
Peckinpah's vision. The competition, power struggle, vigilantism, Of
Mice and Men subplot, conflict with religion, psychological breaking
point examination and underdog vengeance aren't forgotten, however, and
it's hard not to admire the cathartic power of the hero rising to the
occasion and giving the villains what they so desperately deserve. It's
essentially a two-hour, disturbing, suspenseful build to an explosive
conclusion  one that abruptly stops when the last antagonist has
fallen. But it's also difficult for Marsden to compete with Hoffman and
for director/screenwriter Rod Lurie to match the originality and
creativity of Peckinpah's turbulent classic.

- The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the reviews of this film and seeing the original, I
wasn't really looking forward to watching this movie but glad I did

I suggest to ignore all previous bad reviews & not to compare with the
original 1971 film I thought this was a well made movie, with a good
cast. The story line is similar to the original but in my opinion
better but just bought in to the 21st century.

Acting was very good, very surprised & quite annoyed at some of the
comments 

I enjoy watching many movies & have to say this has been one of the
better movies I have watched recently.

Watch it with an open mind Enjoy as I did. Very good movie
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. If you have seen Sam Peckinpah's
classic 1971 original with Dustin Hoffman and Susan George, it is
impossible to watch this remake without comparing the two films.
Because of that, these comments will include some comparative notes.
After all, it's been 40 years and most people watching this new version
have never seen the original.

Director Rod Lurie follows the Peckinpah version pretty closely with
the obvious changes being a move from the English countryside to the
deep south (Mississippi), and the main characters are now a
screenwriter and actress instead of mathematical whiz and ... well,
whatever Susan George's character was in the original. Those are the
obvious changes, but not the most significant. I really missed the
subtlety and psychological trickery delivered by Peckinpah, especially
in the relationship between David and Amy.

Lurie chooses to take advantage of the physical screen presence of
Alexander Skarsgard (True Blood) as Charlie, the local stud and Amy's
ex. Charlie's past exploits on the football field and his creepy
leadership skills with his posse of thugs, provide the yin of physical
strength to the yang of David's intelligence. It's interesting to note
that this version spells out Sun-Tzu's description of "straw dogs"
while Peckinpah left his audience to fend for themselves. But, of
course, what this boils down to is just how far can a civilized person
be pushed ... and how far is the bully willing to go? 

James Woods is a welcome and terrifying addition to the new version.
Since it is based in the small town south, high school football must
play a role. Woods is the former high school coach who is now a violent
drunk, and still leader of his former players. He is a sadistic type
who picks on Jeremy Niles (Dominic Purcell), the slow-witted brother of
Daniel (Walton Goggins) and constantly accuses him of inappropriate
behavior with his 15 year old cheerleader daughter.

James Marsden (Hairspray) and Kate Bosworth (Remember the Titans) play
David and Amy. They come back to Amy's childhood home so she can rest
and David can have some peace and quiet while writing his screenplay on
the Battle of Stalingrad. Well, we couldn't really have him writing a
rom-com, could we? From Day One, the peace and quiet is clearly missing
and Lynyrd Skynyrd wins out over Bach in the battle of radio volume.
Tension builds and David is tested daily over what it means to be a man
... tested by the local hicks and doubted by his lovely wife.

Things turn from bad to worse when the locals invite David to go
hunting with them. What happens with Charlie and Amy during this time
changes everything. This sequence was the key to the controversy of the
original and what caused it to be banned in many cities and countries.
Lurie chooses to handle it in a very straightforward manner - plus,
times and mores have changed quite a bit in the last 40 years.

For me, the Peckinpah original remains a classic film with brilliant
psychological undertones which left me feeling very uncomfortable and
questioning what I might do in this situation. Lurie's new version
offered little of that but does work fine as a straightforward
suspenseful thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of Alexander Skarsgård, I really tried to like the movie - but
I just couldn't. If the hushed nature of the theater crowed leaving at
the end is any indication - they felt the same way. I feel the cast did
well with what they had, but the script was lacking in too many ways.
Where the 1971 version had tension and excitement, the 2011 version was
often boring and all over the place. I often felt like it was Texas
Chainsaw Massacre decided to have a get together with Deliverance and
Sweet Home Alabama. The whole thing just felt awkward and thrown
together. There were only a handful of scenes where the movie actually
had my attention - but they were few and far apart and short lived.
There were even moments that were so awkward they were actually
uncomfortable. I expected so much more with such a classic movie base
and wonderful cast - but ultimately it was disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
While there are probably people out there who could pull off a remake
of the classic Straw Dogs, this isn't the group.

I tried real hard to like this film since I'm a huge fan of Walton
Goggins, but this should have been left on the shelf.

The actress playing the wife did a rather good job, though, in a role
that is not easy to pull off and achieve a believable balance.

Overall I wouldn't give this more than about 4 or 5 points.

Next time someone tries this I really hope they can give us something
worth watching. This is a truly worthwhile script that can be done
better, perhaps even better than the original. I'd like to see that.
<|_=00=_|>
The screenwriter David Sumner (James Marsden) travels with his wife Amy
(Kate Bosworth) in his Jaguar to her homeland Blackwater, in the
Mississippi. Amy's father has passed away and David intends to write
his screenplay about Stalingrad in the house. David hires the
contractor Charlie (Alexander Skarsgård) and his team to repair the
roof of the Barn. Amy was the sweetheart of Charlie when she lived
there and neither him nor his crew show respect to her. 

Charlie invites David to hunt deers with his group and him but they
leave David alone in the woods and rape Amy. She does not tell to David
what happened but when the drunken coach Tom Heddon (James Woods) calls
Charlie and his friends to hunt down the slow Jeremy Niles (Dominic
Purcell) that likes his daughter, David decides to protect not only
Jeremy, but also Amy and his honor.

"Straw Dogs" is an insulting movie, as a remake of Sam Peckinpah's
classic of 1971. The original movie is one of the most disturbing that
I have ever seen, with a stylish cinematography, top-notch direction
and a scary story. This remake is dull, with stupid situations and
non-likable and badly developed characters. My suggestion is, instead
of watching this remake, see the 1971 movie again. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): "Sob o Domínio do Medo" ("Under the Domination of the
Fear")
<|_=00=_|>
I expected this movie to be yet another terrible remake and turn it off
after 15 minutes. But know know what? This was actually a good remake.

While the movie is very similar to the original, they did make some
small changes here and there, mainly in the characters background and
their motivation - which might help explain some things that seemed a
bit odd in the original (for example, why would a beautiful blonde
marry a geek). Others may claim the writer ruined some ideas.

It's hard and unfair to compare the actors' performance to Dustin
Hoffman and David Warner in the original, but I have to say that all
the cast actually did a decent job. James Woods was excellent as a
southern redneck and Kate Bosworth was surprisingly good too. I'm not
familiar with any of the other actors, who were all decent in their
roles.

The ending had some small changes too - again, made in order for the
characters to have a better motivation. Still, I prefer the ending of
the original, which I recall was more intense and more "surreal", made
to show a man protecting his "castle".

All in all, this remake is much better than many of the recent remakes
I've seen (or chose to skip). Was this remake necessary? Probably not.

5/10 Worth watching
