
Let's kick off with the score I've given it. 5/10. That's for the
reasonable job with the comedy, design, and things not related to story
and pacing (with the exception of Gollum and the cave scene). I am
tired of saying "The graphics are great, but..." I have rated it 1 here
to reduce the average in order to reflect reality and not the fanboy
love-in.

I am not going to sugar-coat this film or give it a good review just
because people tell me I should. I am sick to death of sheep. I don't
care if this is Tolkien or Jackson or how much money it took to make
the film. If it's bad, it's bad.

Graphics count for nothing. The reason I watch a film is primarily for
a great story and well written characters (I have to CARE about what is
going on). I don't get dazzled by graphics anymore (if I ever did at
all), and 3D action films do not make a film good. So right there is
the problem with The Hobbit. The story is shallow and pretentious and
cardboard. Let's run through why the film had me rolling my eyes
throughout:

- The introduction is way too long.

-The pacing is dire (and scenes that weren't in the book have been
added).

-One brainless action scene after another for no other reason than to
eat screen time (because the book is 300 pages and they are trying to
maximise profits by having 3 films at 3 hours each). Watching 2 rock
monsters fight for minutes is not captivating or cool, it's boring.

-Implausibility factor 10. I understand this is a fantasy. I understand
that if everything was ultra realistic it would end up boring, but for
heaven sake, that does not mean you can get away with what happens in
this film. EVERY single scene shows something that would ordinarily
kill someone. Fall down multiple ravines, battle 100's goblins with
just a few men, rocks the size of cars flying at you... and no
scratches, no deaths. It just doesn't work.

-Lazy writing. You know you are witnessing a lazy-ass story when your
heroes are saved at the last minute EVERY time in multiple scenes.
Where does that leave us? It leaves us with all main characters intact
and no dramatic tension. Every scene you see a massive rock crush a
character you know they aren't dead. Every time you see them perilously
close to the edge of a cliff, you know that even if they fall, they
will be saved and/or survive. Further to this point, smaller problems
exist such as Bilbo never handling a sword to suddenly taking on killer
beasts like he has been to He-Man training school.

-Cliché crap. The way Bilbo goes from being an outcast to being
accepted is contrived and rushed and totally obvious. It just smacks of
lazy cliché writing. The acting that goes with it is not good either.
Kind of like "I once said... you weren't one of us... OH how wrong I
was!" *Roll eyes time*. Then you have the White Orc that Thorin said he
had slain, and you just KNEW it was coming back at the end for some
sort of showdown, didn't you? Talk about obvious. I blame the film for
this because the scenes involved in the exposition were way too
see-through... might as well have had Thorin wink at the camera! That
brings me onto the whole "Thorin dislikes Elves" angle, where you know
the Elves are suddenly going to become important allies just so we can
have a totally obvious and expected reversal. Wow, Thorin, you got
Bilbo wrong and you got the Elves wrong too! DRAMA.

-Lack of character development (Think Final Fantasy XII if you are a
gamer). This was the stake through the heart of this film... Most of
the dwarfs are completely redundant and I could not identify or even
accept Bilbo. This was due partly to the lack of character development,
partly to the script and partly to the actor. Same goes for Thorin
except the scenes he is in feel more like a bad soap opera than they do
a "blockbuster" film.

It is just dull and lifeless and stupid. You shouldn't do things just
because you can. The LOTR trilogy for the most part had decent pacing,
and it didn't do things too fast, too soon, or for the sake of it. The
original trilogy suffers from some the complaints above AT TIMES, but
nothing like The Hobbit does... The Hobbit is in a league of its own. I
went to watch an engaging movie and I got a cartoon.

The use of CGI is also glaringly obvious and fake; like with the
prequels of Star Wars, when the movie cuts between humans and CGI
blobs, your brain is onto it. Stop relying on CGI for everything. It's
getting annoying, not to mention OLD. At least Jackson makes real sets
so it isn't a total wash out.

There is some real potential in this film and it is squandered; whether
that's because Tolkien wrote a flawed book, whether it is because he
wrote a book that doesn't take well to a feature length movie or
whether it is because Jackson messed it up, that's what we ended up
with.

The Hobbit should have been 2 films, and making it 3 has been the final
nail in the coffin.

So, I am sat here mightily annoyed that once again graphics and self
indulgent, completely pointless action scenes have trumped good
storytelling and pacing.

Of course, the film is still entertaining at times and the 3D visuals
are fun, but for me it is a massive disappointment.

Visuals can not MAKE a film, but when used like in The Hobbit, they
sure as hell can break it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was convinced the (many) criticisms I read beforehand were
exaggerated and wouldn't bother me. To my surprise, quite some
criticisms seemed justified in the end ...

***THE SCRIPT***

ADDITIONS: On paper, the additions looked like a great way to create
added value. However, while I understand why they included them, they
all feel out of place.

- Opening scene: Ian Holm just looks too dissimilar from his appearance
in FOTR (especially his haircut), which is really distracting. The
frame story doesn't blend in naturally and the history of Erebor has
too much to show in too little time.

- Radagast: He appears as suddenly as he disappears. His scene in Dol
Guldur really threw me out of the movie.

- The White Council: I know the screenwriters want to underline the
growing dark powers (hence the - preposterous - finding of the Morgul
blade), but the empty talk about things of which we all know how
they've played out in the LOTR films isn't convincing at all.

- Azog: An appallingly one-dimensional character, who feels most out of
place (the fact that he looks like a creature from a cheap horror movie
also doesn't help ...). His scenes have a strange "un-Tolkien" vibe,
particularly the battle of Azanulbizar (the worst scene of the movie),
which doesn't feel like a fierce and thrilling battle at all.

FROM THE BOOK: The episodic structure prevents the film from having a
fluid narrative and squeezes the tension out of every new dangerous
situation: the events just leave you cold.

In the book, we experience everything through Bilbo's eyes, which
creates a strong connection between the reader and the main part. This
is missing from the movie: Bilbo even seemed to have more or less
disappeared between the troll encounter and the stone giants' battle.
His homesickness, his doubts, all of this isn't really developed in the
script.

The emphasis on Thorin is a good thing, but also not perfect: during
the enclosure by the Wargs, I didn't buy Thorin's charge towards Azog
and especially Bilbo's sudden "action hero saves the day in the nick of
time" intervention. The latter seemed like a very inappropriate way to
illustrate Bilbo's courage.

There were actually only two great scenes: Riddles in the Dark is
amazing, but ironically, it also painfully shows how mediocre the rest
of the movie actually is, because this is the only moment that comes
close to the level of LOTR. Also, Bilbo's speech after they've escaped
Goblin Town is a very welcome, for rare touching moment.

***THE PACING***

It's quite astonishing some people complain about the pacing, because
the film was over before I knew it. In fact, I think the pacing is
about just right and proved it would have been really difficult to
adapt the book in just one fully-fledged movie. But since I didn't like
the additions, I'm doubting whether a third film is necessary after all
(but I suspend my judgment until 2014).

***THE CINEMATOGRAPHY***

One of the biggest (unpleasant) surprises is the cinematographic style.
I'm not talking about the bright colors or the digital images, but the
(lack of physical) camera use. Whereas LOTR has stunning "real" camera
movements and an extremely accomplished "handicraft" feel, AUJ often
feels like a video game. The camera is flying and whirling so
limitlessly that it just doesn't feel like an authentic movie anymore.
This is particularly apparent during the Orc chase and above all the
absurd Goblin Town escape. The CGI is perfect, but too much is just too
much.

***THE MUSIC***

After my long list of complaints, I'm truly relieved to say there is at
least one thing that unconditionally gets my support, which is the
score. The people who unfairly label Howard Shore's work as a "re-hash
of LOTR" obviously didn't pay full attention, because when you listen
to the score multiple times (and I admit it also took me several spins
to really appreciate it), you discover a new rich and diverse musical
tapestry once again masterfully woven by Shore. OF COURSE you hear the
same themes when EXACTLY THE SAME places are visited as in "The
Fellowship of the Ring" ... If someone deserves credit for "The
Hobbit", it's Shore: his music is in my view the only aspect of the
movie on par with the level of LOTR.

***3D & 48 FPS***

- The 3D was good, no complaints about that. However, although I have
no problems with watching movies in 3D, I start questioning its
necessity.

- I am bewildered many people claim that 48 fps creates a "TV-look"
with "actors with clear make-up on a fake set". I didn't have that
feeling at all, but on the other hand - and this was the most
surprising - the difference with 24 fps isn't THAT spectacular. After
30 minutes, I even had to remind myself: "Oh, I'm watching 48 fps,
right?". Yes, the images look very clear and it does smooth fast
movements, but the latter (which is positive) only sticks out a couple
of times (and no, the motion never comes across as "sped up", so I was
never distracted by the higher frame rate). All in all, I consider 48
fps to be an improvement over 24 fps (without diminishing the
"cinematic" look of a film), but I didn't have the feeling I had
witnessed a "revolutionary new cinema experience".

***** CONCLUSION *****

I didn't expect (or want) a replica of LOTR, but while "The Hobbit"
isn't a bad movie, it isn't good either. I'm still perplexed I don't
feel any urge to go see it again, unlike the LOTR films. We can only
hope that Jackson recovers in time to save the next two films from
unnecessary additions, lack of focus on Bilbo and a video game feeling.
Well, at least we have new brilliant music to listen to!
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Jackson's return to the world of Tolkien is rather weak. At first
I was against the idea of such a small book being made into a trilogy.
I still am. Many say not to compare this film to the far superior "Lord
of the Rings" trilogy. Well, it's hard not to considering Jackson has
tried so hard to recreate the style of the original films because
that's what the audience wants. But he fails big time.

The bizarre, unfunny, slapstick humor is painful. This involves snot
jokes, burping, poop hair, and lame one-liners. Don't give me the "it's
based on a children's book" crap. Sure, the source material was written
for children but I'm talking about the movie. Adding all this stupid
humor really messes with the tone; it doesn't feel like it belongs in
the LOTR universe which "The Hobbit" is trying so hard replicate. The
film will go from trying to be epic to pathetic gags. It doesn't work.
I don't mind a little humor occasionally but this is just overdone and
it makes the film feel very unbalanced.

Now to the pacing. Many say the beginning is slow but they're wrong.
The entire film is slow! Radagast's involvement is pointless and his
bunny sled is ridiculous. We also get to see Saruman and Galadriel in a
boring scene that has absolutely no relevance to the main narrative.
Wait, what exactly is "The Hobbit" about again? Apparently Jackson is
trying to make connections with LOTR, but "Fellowship of the Ring"
already explains past events pretty well. Seriously, all the LOTR
fanboy pleasing scenes could have been left out (including Frodo). But
no, we need them in order to have enough material for the trilogy. Not
good.

And I understand that Jackson is taking material from the appendices of
LOTR. I wouldn't have a problem with this if all these extra scenes
actually advanced the plot. But the White Council just talks and they
never decide to act on anything. Also, that scene has NOTHING to do
with the dwarfs reclaiming their homeland. At least in "Fellowship" the
plot makes major advancements but in "The Hobbit" the story hardly goes
anywhere.

Let's discuss the action. It's like watching a video game. The main orc
villain, Azog, looks fake. Everything is CGI overload; there's no
tension. Characters survive unbelievable situations. Compare the ending
orc scene in this film to the one in "Fellowship." Huge difference.
Unfortunately everything in "The Hobbit" is cartoonish. Not to mention
most of the action has no impact on the story whatsoever.

Now to the characters. Gandalf is great but that is to be expected.
Martin Freeman does fine as Bilbo but his transition from weakling to
hero happens a little too quickly and feels unrealistic. Thorin is your
typical warrior like character; I didn't care for him too much. Bifur
is probably my favorite of all the dwarfs (hold on, I just searched his
name and realized I got the wrong one, his name is BOFUR, my bad). All
the other dwarfs are just there and if you were to ask me to name them
and describe something about their character, I couldn't do it. And I'm
sure you couldn't either.

But the film does have some good. We get to see Bilbo and Gollum
interact in an iconic scene. The finding of the Ring is also
significant and is really the only scene that should have any
connection with LOTR unlike Galadriel, Frodo, etc. And that's about it.
Honestly, nothing really happens. While watching "The Hobbit" you kind
of forget about the main adventure because of all the padding. Then at
the end you're like, "Oh yeah, there's a dragon." Maybe the second film
will improve.

It's such a shame that "The Hobbit" ended up being a drawn-out,
bloated, boring mess that lacks compelling characters and an engaging
story. I really wanted to love it but it's hard not to ignore the many
problems. I couldn't wait to return to Middle-earth but now I'm not
sure if I want to go back to this new cartoon version. Hopefully
improvements will be made in the sequels but after witnessing this my
hopes aren't too high. All these years of anticipation and this is what
we get...

*IMDb auto corrects the plural word for "dwarf" when it really should
be dwar(ves)
<|_=00=_|>
"All great stories deserve a little embellishment." So says Gandalf the
Grey (Ian McKellen) in the most telling line in The Hobbit: An
Unexpected Journey, Peter Jackson's return to the world of JRR Tolkien.
It's a line that clearly outlines Jackson and his co-writers'
intentions, yet it comes off as a veiled apology, as if the film-making
team knew that what they have created is going to be problematic for
die-hard Middle Earth fans. Sadly, Jackson's new film doesn't come
close to silencing the skeptics like his Lord of the Rings films did,
and is actually more ill-conceived than expected.

Things that do work well for the most part in The Hobbit are sequences
that come directly from the source novel. Iconic scenes, such as the
arrival of the dwarfs at Bag End or the encounter with the trolls are
handled pretty well, despite being padded out to unnecessary lengths
with lame gags and pointless alteration of the original events in the
book. Juggling such a massive primary cast is obviously a challenge,
and as such the film's best moments involve only one or two characters,
with Bilbo's (Martin Freeman) meeting of Gollum (Andy Serkis) and the
finding of the ring being a particular stand-out sequence, the only one
that seemed like it could have used more time.

However, all of the good work that Jackson & Co do with the direct
source material is swamped by the content they felt they had to develop
themselves. The great achievement of the LOTR films is how they managed
to distill the huge source novels to their most important story beats,
only hinting at most of the wider story in a way that brought
incredible richness to the world in which they take place. With The
Hobbit though, Jackson only has a 300 page novel to start with, and the
decision to make three lengthy films, I assume to parallel the first
trilogy, is precisely why this first film doesn't work.

The Hobbit should be allowed to stand alone as its own film, but it is
structured in such a way, almost identically to the first LOTR entry
The Fellowship of the Ring, that it's all but impossible not to compare
them. As a side-effect, the much lighter tone will be jarring for a lot
of established franchise fans, the very people the film seems to be
primarily aimed at. The chase sequence in the goblin tunnels for
example is little more than an updated version of the Moria scenes from
LOTR. It's exciting enough, but much of the action feels in service of
the film- making technology on display rather than the story, and as
such none of the stakes of the earlier films are built here.

Where the LOTR films had to keep moving at such a pace to fit
everything in, The Hobbit dwells on unnecessary moments which had only
the briefest of mentions in the novel to reach its 2 hour 49 minute
runtime. Most damaging are the call backs linking the previous trilogy,
setting up what is likely to be an almost completely new story bridge
between the two trilogies in the third film due in 2014. There is
absolutely no reason for Frodo (Elijah Wood), Saruman (Christopher
Lee), and Galadriel (Cate Blanchett) to appear in this story, yet here
they are, taking us away from a perfectly good narrative about a quest
to fight a dragon. It reeks of cynical franchise care, and arguably
disrespectful to the carefully crafted world that Tolkien created.

There's a good movie somewhere in The Hobbit, and had Jackson shown
more restraint we might have seen it. The film could easily lose at
least 45 minutes, but it feels as if director feels so beholden to his
previous work that he needs to deliver an epic on the scale of LOTR.
But that's not what this book is, and we're left with an uneasy balance
- the lighter tone to distinguish this as a separate story but a strict
adherence to the LOTR structure - but ultimately doesn't fulfill either
side.

tinribs27.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
First came the original trilogy, a popular success and critically
acclaimed. Then, some years later, a second trilogy began, a prequel to
the original, and the first installment of this second trilogy turned
out to be awful. We saw this pattern play out once, with "Star Wars,"
and now, alas, it begins again, with "The Hobbit," a movie that is
exactly one Jar Jar Binks away from being as bad as "The Phantom
Menace." The problem may be built into the design. The previous "Lord
of the Rings" films were each based on a single book. "The Hobbit" -
more like a children's novel than the other three, a kind of "Tom
Sawyer" to their "Huckleberry Finn" - is just one book, smaller than
any of the other J.R.R. Tolkien books, and yet it is being blown out
into three enormous films. This first installment runs 169 minutes.

This puts a lot of pressure on a simple story, especially when you
consider that director Peter Jackson and his screenwriters really can't
take liberties with the tale, not without incurring the wrath of
millions. They must work with what they have, and what they have is
quite enough for one pleasing and inventive two-hour movie - or a
nine-hour disaster stretched over three years.

This pressure, this obligation to stretch everything to the limits of
endurance and beyond, is felt from the film's early minutes. Howard
Shore's beautiful theme music, from the previous trilogy, filters in.
We see the idyllic Middle-earth countryside and are introduced to
Martin Freeman as Bilbo Baggins - Freeman was born to be a hobbit; he
is ideal casting - and we settle in for a magical experience. And then,
slowly, a fatal distance opens up between what we're hoping and what
we're actually seeing.

Bilbo is a happy hobbit, a homebody who enjoys his creature comforts
and doesn't have a violent impulse about him. Yet he is recruited by
Gandalf the Grey Wizard (Ian McKellen) to join an expedition by dwarfs
to retake their homeland from a dragon. See how quickly it takes to say
that? Bilbo is recruited. Period. Yet the movie takes this tiny bit of
crucial plot movement and dilutes its effectiveness: The dwarfs show up
for an impromptu party at Bilbo's house. Bilbo frets about what the
dwarfs will do to his house. Then the dwarfs clean up. Then Bilbo says
he won't join their fight. But then he does. The film milks every
detail of the text, every hint of vacillation in the main character, to
turn water flowing downstream into molasses walking uphill.

It must be said that if you plan to enjoy "The Hobbit," it really helps
to love dwarfs. Others may prefer hobbits - they're adorably
idiosyncratic, small, chubby, eat all day, have big ears, and they're
incredibly sincere. Still others may prefer the Olympian elves -
beautiful, pristine, sure and eternal. But there is only one hobbit in
the entire movie, and only one brief sequence involving elves.
Otherwise you're stuck with the dwarfs, who are like Vikings - boorish,
slovenly, hearty and heavy-drinking - and not exactly lovable.

The three "Lord of the Rings" were heavy on battle scenes, but "The
Hobbit" is almost nothing but battles. Without a stopwatch, it would be
hard to know for sure, but probably 50 percent of screen time is taken
up with fighting - perhaps up to 80 percent if you count planning for
and recovering from battles. Some of these battles have pockets of
interest: A conflict with goblins plays out like a trapeze act, in
three dimensions, with the combatants falling through space, landing
and regrouping. But most of "The Hobbit" is like looking over Peter
Jackson's shoulder to watch a computer screen.

Occasionally, when the smoke clears, we get a glimpse of what "The
Hobbit" might have been, had Freeman's quirkiness and humanity been
given a chance to set the tone. The movie really springs to life only
when Freeman dominates, as when Bilbo falls into a cave and discovers
Gollum, looking like James Carville but acting like Peter Lorre. It's
an encounter worthy of the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy - so is the
all-too-brief scene between Gandalf and Galadriel (Cate Blanchett).

If you loved the earlier films, these are moments you will hold on to,
but they're very few, and they're not enough.
<|_=00=_|>
I was about 8 years old when I was first introduced to the Hobbit from
the animated 1 hour movie. The movie was a yearly event. As a child, it
freaked me out. But, my Dad loved Glenn Yarbrough and the music, so, I
was made to sit through it.

Since that time, I eventually appreciated the storyline of that silly
cartoon and the characters from it. And, when I grew up, I read the
book, and then the LOTR series and fell in love with them.

I think that you have to look at this movie from 2 points of view. From
1. Viewers like myself who fell in love with the books and original
characters and are looking for some semblance of that universe in a
movie. 2. Viewers, like my kids, who have never read the books and are
fascinated by animated computer novels, games, and the unrealistic
expectations of immortality in virtual super humans.

If you are type 1. You will hate this movie. It fell short of all of my
expectations. The Hobbit is not an epic story. In other words, this
story was short, a 300 page book. It was, however, an epic adventure
seen through the eyes of a single character, a character who had a
realistic perspective of his small contribution to the world around
him. His character never wavered from that perspective as he watched
events unfold and did what little he could to contribute and help. He
never became the grandiose, cocky, tempered tough guy that this movie
seems to try to portray him as.

"The Hobbit" was a story that sets up the universe that these
characters lived in. Elves, Goblins, Orcs, Hobbits and Humans and other
creatures defined their roles in this world and their conflicts. Then,
the story moves on to show how a band of characters, plus the Hobbit,
interacts in this world and the story unfolds giving a lesson and a way
to perceive our own world and how we, as individuals, interact with it.
It's a simple message, yet, the book finds a way to make this message
profound giving the characters depth and meaning and focusing on the
hobbit as one individual, insignificant in his eyes, in an amazing
world. This most basic message which encompasses the entirety of the
book is completely, 100% lost in the movie. The one line in the movie,
by Gandalf, which was never spoken in the book, but, was the most
significant and meaningful in this movie was, "All good stories need to
be embellished a little..." That was an understatement.

If you are type 2, you might enjoy this movie. Tons of action, crazy
cgi, most of the film is animated, and it attempts to tie into and be a
prequel for the LOTR trilogy. Lot's of battles and fighting, immortal
death defying falls (just like any computer game) that serves no
purpose to define our mortality (since no one dies or even gets
injured), last second cliff hanger rescues, gross ugly characters that
sound goofy and look like Jar Jar Binks on steroids, pretty scenery,
loud noises, explosions, more bad guys killed per second that you can
shake a stick at and pretty much any other Hollywood formula that draws
in money. And, that was just one movie in a trilogy that has no purpose
other than to make lots and lots of money.

I took the Kids to watch this and spared no expense. IMax screen,
popcorn, Icees, candy and some snacks. $100 down the toilet. The kids
fell asleep during the first hour and I wanted to leave after the 2nd.
<|_=00=_|>
THE QUALITY OF THE FILM Imagine "Spy Kids" with elements of Tolkien's
writing. Technological demonstration, a large budget at the hands of a
tasteless creative group. The CG animation of trolls was almost as ugly
as in the Lord of the Rings. The only reason of making it 3D was making
me cope with the uncomfortably of 3D. The dwarf parcour and scenes
copied from the Lord of the Rings (compare the fight of Thorin and Azog
with that of Isildur and Sauron), artificially added action-scenes and
castrated non-action scenes spoke of lazy, commercial, mainstream work.
Radagast's animal companions were Walt Disney's "Snow-white" bad.

THE PLOT The poor novella (yep, Lord of the Rings is a novel trilogy,
The Hobbit - only a small novella, yet both amount a trilogy of films)
was so stretched out that the original and added material could be
equal to each other. And whatever was taken from the book, was
mutilated for reasons unknown: in the book, Azog is a goblin, not an
orc, and is killed by Dain, not Thorin, and his son Bolg replaced him
in Moria. The "stone giants" are only a dwarf legend about thunder.
Radagast isn't a main character in any Tolkien work I know, because he
doesn't give a damn about the wars of humans, elves and the rest. The
Dol Guldur conflict and the ousting of the Necromancer actually has
nothing to do with "The Hobbit". There is no toilet humor in the scene
with trolls - in the book, Gandalf gives the trolls advice in troll
voice, makes them change their mind so many times that dawn comes. In
the movie - a troll blows his nose on Bilbo, then Bilbo starts a
lecture on tapeworms. An awful lot of cliché ("NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!",
"I'm sure we're through the worst" *Dumb Dumb Dumb* DRAGON'S WOKEN
UP!!!). It was made so it would please a diaper-wearing kid, but don't
make them sad. I hate the tragic scene->happy end formula, which was
abused, raped, killed, buried, taken out of the grave, raped again in
this film.

THE HEROES The heroes were lacking any defining traits so intense in
the book. Only a Hollywood template - smart-mouthed guys with tactless
jokes. They were given one-liners/catchphrases to define them instead.
It wasn't always easy to see the difference between certain dwarfs and
the Great Goblin. In the book dwarfs are polite, but dry and greedy. In
the book - kind-hearted heroic men, a bit stubborn, and loving to troll
people now and then. Bilbo's not a conservative gentleman hobbit, who
gets carried away by his curiosity for adventure, but a timid teenager.
Gandalf isn't a powerful mage, but a well-informed homeless guy,
Radagast is another one, and a schizophrenic in addition. Might as well
fit in in Terry Gilliam's "The Fisher King" (awesome movie btw).
Actually, there was no Bilbo character at all: there was a combined
character of Frodo, Sam, Mery, Pin from LOTR.

Verdict - if you want Tolkien, read the book. The movie isn't worth
watching even once.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me first say that while I enjoyed the LOTR trilogy,
and admired the directorial and technical greatness of it, I'm no LOTR
fanboy, and I also recognize its flaws. I'm saying this so that one
understands that I'm not the type of person who will blindly speak
greatly of any film of the Tolkien/Jackson series if I don't feel it
deserves it.

This being said, I have difficulties understanding some of the negative
professional reviews which said The Hobbit is a failed attempt, and not
as good as LOTR. The artistic and directing style are exactly the same
(so I won't comment on this more). I also wasn't expecting to like the
48 fps since I'm the kind of guy who squints even at high definition
TVs, but surprisingly, I thought it looked great in The Hobbit, and I
think 48 fps is the future. There are slow moments in The Hobbit,
broken regularly by excitingly over the top action scenes. Again, just
like LOTR - so I don't see why one would like the original trilogy and
not The Hobbit.

The Hobbit is perhaps a little less dark in tone than LOTR, considering
the source material which is more of a children's book, but it's
clearly not a children's movie anyway, and displays many exciting and
stressful moments. It also offers something more than the LOTR, that is
five genuinely important villains right then and there. The dragon
Smaug, in this first film, is like Sauron in the LOTR. A distant,
mysterious figure who is the ultimate goal of the quest, whom we don't
see much of yet, but we know it's going to be brutal. The "necromancer"
is mostly alluded. Those who know the book will know who that is, and
he'll surely be important in the sequels. Azog, the giant orc, is a
main villain and is much more appealing than the Uruk-hai chief in
Fellowship of the Ring, or any other orc villain in the LOTR series.
The Goblin King also has a strong key role in the movie. And of course,
Gollum, who's riddle scene with Bilbo is fantastic.

Martin Freeman as Bilbo is superb and there couldn't be a better
choice. The rest of the cast is pitch perfect as well. While the 13
dwarfs are too many for us to get to know each and every one of them
well enough by the end of this first movie, I didn't feel it was a
downer. We got to know at least a third sufficiently - and I'm sure
we'll get to learn about and appreciate the rest in the subsequent
films - this allows us to still have characters to discover later on.

Anyway, great film. I think it's better than Fellowship, and I'll be
seeing it again for sure and can't wait for the sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard that there was to be a film version of The Hobbit, I was
quite looking forward to it as the big finish of Lord of the Rings was
still in my mind and, unlike LotR, I had actually read The Hobbit
several times many years ago. When I heard that it might be two films I
wasn't surprised but the news that it was to be three did rather dampen
my spirits as I don't know if I had the interest for this story to be
concluded as 2016 rolls into town. Regardless I did of course watch the
film because it is still a large blockbuster and, at a time of the year
normally filled with overly earnest Oscar contenders, I did quite like
the idea of returning to this world again.

With this in mind I did wonder why I watched it with a surprisingly
detached air and why I wasn't able to get into it like I should have
done. I had some reservations with the first film in the LotR trilogy
but this seemed different because it certainly wasn't a lack of action
and forward motion that gave me a problem here. Quite the opposite
actually because, once the first 45 minutes or so are out of the way
then the action set-pieces come thick and fast and noisy. The opening
hints at the power of the dragon to come before settling down for a
gentle reintroduction to the Shire and then the characters we will
follow; this section I found a little longer than it should have been
and I could have done with a bit less noisy banter from the Dwarfs,
since the film would provide much more from them. The majority of the
film is the journey (or at least that bit of it that this film covers)
and it produces plenty of action with great special effects really well
integrated into the live action. So visually and technically there is
plenty here. Problem is that little of it felt urgent or tense and
actually the delivery of the constant action does rather detract from
it.

With Fellowship of the Ring, the group was smaller and the development
of the plot better; additionally the action was more scaled down and
comparatively simple. Here we have set-pieces where it feels like
everything has been thrown at the screen and every inch of every frame
has been filled with movement wherever possible. This tended to
overwhelm me rather than draw me in though and in effect the noise
prevented me really getting into it. Likewise by the time I had seen
the characters survive impossible situations and defy gravity for the
third or fourth time, the film sort of lost the ability to make me
believe there was danger involved  which is a problem given I was
already being pushed away by how busy and noisy it all was. Tellingly
the scene that worked the best for me was with Gollum; this scene had
tension, had uncertainity, had threat and did it all with small
movements and dialogue; also worth noting that while Gollum is of
course another special effect, you don't notice it in that scene
because you are focused on the content instead of the visual.

The cast sort of fit into this approach as well. While everyone is fine
and does as required, at times they do tend to become part of the noise
and effects rather than being characters. Freeman is a good Bilbo and
his mannerisms work well (which helps negate his limited range) while
of course McKellen is always welcome. The dwarfs didn't make much of an
impression on me though, even if they all looked the part and delivered
a few laughs. The rest of the cast are all fine but to be honest the
effects are the main stars here and technically it is very impressive
even if it is a bit overdone at times.

I didn't dislike The Hobbit but at the same time I was disappointed in
it. The action is noisy and busy but there isn't enough to draw me into
the story or to make the action thrill me so much as it did overwhelm
me. Hopefully the second film will see the characters and plots grow me
on so that I am more emotionally bought into the films, but for this
first one I must confess to being surprised by how much the film seemed
content to have me watch from a distance rather than draw me in and
engage me.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first of three films Peter Jackson has made to adapt J.R.R.
Tolkien's prequel to Lord of the Rings. An elderly Bilbo Baggins writes
to Frodo about the land of Erebor, where the Dwarf King Thror lost his
land and prosperity to the dragon Smaug. Bilbo then recalls the earlier
years of his life (played by Martin Freeman), where he's timid and lost
his sense of adventure. Bilbo's complacency is questioned by the wizard
Gandalf (Ian McKellen), who secretly arranges for a meeting to be held
in the hobbit's house. One evening Bilbo is interrupted by thirteen
dwarfs who invite themselves inside. He's told these dwarfs are in
search of a home but need a burglar who can accompany them to the
mountain where Smaug is and take back their land and treasure.
Initially reluctant, Bilbo trails after the unit but this does little
to impress Thorin (Richard Armitage), the dwarf leader and grandson of
Thror, who doubts the hobbit's commitment. 

Even without reading the novel The Hobbit, nothing erases the feeling
while watching An Unexpected Journey that this is a deliberately
inflated work of fanfare, with eyes drawn acutely towards the box
office. Good cinema is defined by economics and how efficiently a story
can be told with images. Peter Jackson demonstrated this skill with his
Rings trilogy, gracefully balancing multiple narrative threads and
characters, and ensuring each one possessed an appropriate amount of
emotional weight.

Why then has he chosen to make a soulless, linear action movie,
extravagantly scaled, but so insubstantial that it never justifies
itself as the start of a trilogy? Penned by no less than four writers,
including Jackson, this would have been more satisfying as one film
with richer themes and selective action. Instead, a novel of barely 300
pages long is extended to nearly three hours, if only to showcase
boring battle scenes and superfluous new technology, falsely touted as
innovative. 

The excess of Jackson's passion stems from his fascination with geek
culture. Since the inception of his career in the 1980s, making low
budget horror films, he has been concerned with subjects like the
undead and the uncanny. His recent films have been criticised for being
overly dependent on special effects. The trajectory of his career, from
horror to global blockbusters, is not unlike James Cameron, who is
coincidentally using Jackson's special effects studio Weta Digital to
work on Avatar 2. 

Both men have become transfixed by spectacle, with each of their films
more elaborate and technically sophisticated than the last. They seem
intent on blurring the lines between video games and cinema, which
means more investment into technology and effects, rather than the
scripts. Someone distanced from the source material and video game
culture might have made The Hobbit less self-indulgent and plodding. A
legal battle between Jackson and New Line Cinema meant Guillermo Del
Toro was originally meant to direct the film but was eventually
replaced. 

As it stands, Jackson's love for video games is all too visible here.
The script is short on themes, characterisation and subplots. It's
overly rigid structure means the film becomes too absorbed in its sets
and its environments, instead of the story. Each scene is like a level
from a game, designed to showcase a gallery of monsters, which are cogs
in the film's tired formula for suspense. Exposition is followed by
danger and then an escape route. Press start to begin. 

If the desire for a home offers some resemblance of a motive, it's
regularly lost in the flurry of the action, most of which is extremely
unengaging and lacking in tension. The film's one good scene admittedly
adds some suspense and intrigue. It involves the reappearance of the
monster Gollum and begins tying threads back to the Rings trilogy. The
detail in Gollum's expressions, beautifully captured again by Andy
Serkis, is even more incredible than before.

How do scenes like this, as overlong as they are, fare through the
introduction of 48 frames per second? The standard frame rate for films
has been to use 24 frames per second. The additional number of frames
on the screen adds more detail and colour to the images. The trade-off
is that it gives the illusion the images are moving much faster, which
is very distracting. It's an unnecessary addition so if you must see
the film, watch it in 2D. 

Will fans enjoy the movie? Undoubtedly, but for most hardcore fans,
more is always more. Consider the families who will now be paying for
three movies instead of one, as well as the 3D surcharge, and must then
wait another two years to finish the story. They're shown a footnote of
a narrative here and that's not right.
