
If you want to see a painfully unoriginal and unengaging story of
paint-by-number characters getting at it in the green room for 90% of
the time, go see this movie.

The most deplorable thing about this movie - aside from the plot being
an incoherent mess - is the way the villains are portrayed as
caricatures, and the good guys as saints who can do no wrong. I don't
know about you, but when the villains are portrayed as sadistic
psychopaths with no real motive or character, I lose interest in the
story.

tl;dr lots of CG, completely two-dimensional characters and a plot that
could've been auto-generated with a smartphone app.
<|_=00=_|>
It's simple. If what you want is a live-action version of the Disney
cartoon, or a remake of those old "Me Tarzan, you Jane" camp fests,
this isn't the film for you. If you don't like the character to begin
with, this isn't the film for you. The vast majority of critics who
thus far have given the movie unfavorable reviews fall into one or both
of these two categories. It's disheartening, and it's so obvious they
don't really know anything about the character and don't care enough to
learn.

If, however, you have yearned for the day in cinema when Edgar Rice
Burroughs' epic hero is treated with the gravitas and respect he
deserves, and if you enjoy epic jungle adventure with a heart, by all
means GO SEE THIS MOVIE! It is phenomenally good! Think of it like you
would a dish of food. Let's say spiced curry. If you don't like spiced
curry, you won't like it no matter how well it is prepared. This movie
is for those who enjoy spiced curry. For those who love it, this is the
most delicious dish you're ever likely to taste.
<|_=00=_|>
How, in this modern day, with such high standards of education and
courses on script writing and film making, can a big budget film like
this one be so bad? It was only because we watched in it Gold Class, in
comfortable seats and with food service, that we didn't walk out.

After about fifteen minutes my partner leaned over to me and asked when
anything was going to happen (in the movie that is). I couldn't help
her.

In fact my seat was so comfortable, and the movie so bad, that I fell
asleep three times.

When my partner told me she thought this was the worst movie ever, and
that she was confused, I couldn't help her again - I'd been asleep.

I did however witness the butterfly land on Jane's shoulder, then fly
off. What a beautiful CGI scene. Totally irrelevant to the plot or
story, and I'm still not sure why it was included.

Then there was the scene when giant ostriches nearly trample Tarzan and
his mate. At last, I thought, something is going to happen. Tarzan's
mate asks Tarzan what did the Ostrich say. Tarzan replies something
like - "The Ostrich is telling you it can trample you." And then, the
Ostriches run off. That's the last we see of them. Confused? I was.

The writers and director don't know whether Tarzan is Spider Man,
Batman or some other action hero - but he certainly isn't Tarzan.

The poor old apes get a very bad rap here. They are huge, aggressive
monsters with razor sharp teeth.

This movie is a showcase of when bad script writing, bad directing and
masses of CGI meet.

I can only recommend this film to people watching it on late night TV,
when they need to be put to sleep.

What would Tarzan say about this movie: AwwwwwwOaaaaaaaaWhaaaaaa

On a side note, it is interesting to see that people that rate this
movie high, usually have only one review in their list - this one. This
usually means that they have some connection to the film.

(Edit 2 days later) I rest my case. After posting this review, 6
positive reviews have been posted after mine, all saying this is the
greatest movie ever, and 4 of the reviewers have only 1 review to their
name - this movie, and the other two reviewers have 2 reviews to their
name. With a ratio of 6 biased reviews to 1 honest review, no wonder it
is getting so hard to trust the IMDb rating system anymore.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a moment in David Yates' excellent and emotionally resonant
Legend of Tarzan when George Washington Williams', played by Samuel L.
Jackson, goads civilized Tarzan, played by Alexander Skarsgard, just a
little too much. Alexander Skarsgard's Tarzan erupts instantly and
spectacularly with a combination of physical force and gut-chilling
animal sounds and pins the American to a wall, then growls out the
words: "They have my wife, and their families." In this single small
moment, Yates and Skarsgard put on display Tarzan's utter commitment to
the woman he loves while at the same time same evoking the internal
contradiction of a man who in adulthood could pass among society as a
aristocratic Englishman, but whose feral upbringing has left him with a
volatile beast within that can overwhelm the civilized trappings in an
instant. Unlike the filmmakers who have come before him, Yates
effectively captures this duality  and in so doing delivers a film
that is fresh and appealing to modern sensibilities, yet is faithful to
the character of the books in ways that Hollywood has never attempted
before. The result is pure pulp poetry with a beating heart. Edgar Rice
Burroughs would approve of it, and 21st century audiences will, if they
can be lured into theaters to see it, be intrigued and satisfied by it.

Legend of Tarzan begins eight years after Tarzan and Jane (a luminous
and effective Margot Robbie) have left Africa to undertake a gentrified
life in London, where Tarzan has claimed his birthright of John Clayton
III, Lord Greystoke. He is drawn back to Africa at the behest of George
Washington Williams (Samuel L. Jackson), a black American journalist
who is based on the historical figure who led the exposure of the
crimes of King Leopold II of Belgium. Williams recruits him to assist
in Williams' quest to investigate the suspected crimes of King Leopold.
Accompanied by Jane, the two men return to Africa where Leon Rom
(Christoph Waltz) has laid a trap for Tarzan that, if successful, will
result in Rom delivering Tarzan to Chief Mbonga (Djimon Hounsou), who
seeks to deliver vengeance to Tarzan for killing Mbonga's son many
years earlier. Mayhem and adventure ensues.

When Edgar Rice Burroughs was firing on all cylinders, his pulpy,
emotionally infused adventure novels were able to strike a mythic vein
that caused him to become the J.K. Rowlings of his day  the first
global superstar pop culture author, translated into 57 languages, his
books and characters embedded in cultures from Russia to Turkey and
Japan. At the time of his death in 1950 he was the best known author on
the planet with his works selling more than the combined sales of his
contemporaries Hemingway, Faulkner, and Joyce. Hollywood tried more
than fifty times and although the movies obviously met with success 
not one of them ever captured what the grand old pulp master had
created on the page. Yates is the first to do it; his Legend of Tarzan
stands head and shoulders above the Tarzan movies that came before
itand regardless of how it fares in the crowded summer theatrical
marketplace, it is assured of a place in cinema history as the Tarzan
movie that captured the heart and spirit of Burroughs' creation.

It remains to be seen how 2016 audiences react. Has Tarzan's time on
the world stage passed, or is there indeed something mythic and
archetypal that can cause the character to come alive in the modern
imaginations? Yates and his team have given it an extraordinary "best
shot" and have created something of heart, beauty, and lasting value.
The editing of the film by Mark Day is taut and streamlined not a
moment is wasted and the story drives forward with energy and
commitment; Henry Braham's cinematography is cool and brooding in
London, and lush and earthy in Africa; the production design by Stuart
Craig is grand and evocative; and the music by Rupert Gregson Williams
is both emotional and pulse-quickening. Special mention goes to
screenwriters Adam Cozad and Craig Brewer who updated the Burroughs
material, giving it unexpected historical gravitas, while excavating
from the pages of the early Tarzan books the core values that made them
unique. And the CGI wizardry is seamless, photo-realistic, and
effective on all levels.

Give Legend of Tarzan a chance to work its magic on you. I don't think
you'll be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I am really surprised at the mediocre reviews so far of this film.
Honestly when I first heard about the film I had little interest in
seeing it, but the trailer was better than I expected, and when has
Christoph Waltz been anything short of terrific in every role he has
played, but particularly when he is a bad guy. (Come to think of it has
he ever been a good guy?) The whole cast is solid, and I really liked
the historical setting concerning the Belgian King Leopold and his
exploitation of the Congo. 

I found all the animals and the CGI to be surprisingly cheesy.
Undoubtedly the weakest link in the film, but that factor did not
subtract much from a constantly entertaining and solid story. Besides
the cheesy CGI the rest of the film looked terrific. I would recommend
to see it on the big screen. It will probably lose a lot on smaller
screens. Good summer popcorn film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie started off quite well, for a movie I had quite mediocre
expectations it caught my interest when it introduces some interesting
characters with mixed motives, unfortunately that and a few good
cinematic shots is where the praise ends for this movie.

This movie had potential which only makes it even more
disappointing,we're first introduced to Tarzan as a British politician
and is then forced to rediscover his wildness but lacks any real
character and only comes across one dimensional with the traits of an
angsty teen who's marriage we're supposed to care about but I'm not
sure why

This movie tries to incorporate way to many elements, the overall plot
about the enslaving the Congo and getting rich from a mythical city
full of jewels that we're not even allowed to see at any point combined
with fueds with passed foes that don't really come to any settlement a
tribe leader that had his son killed by Tarzan that wants revenge,
gorilla brother that wants him dead, trying for a baby and flashbacks
of a potentially better film we could have had, they rush through these
very quickly without really developing or keeping your interest 

Some really awful scenes, Samuel Jackson who I'm not sure needed to be
in this movie jumps off cliffs only to land unscathed on a branch,
combined with a very predictably unsatisfying ending that couldn't of
come fast enough and causally wrapped up with all the bad guys
defeated, they may as well have froze in the air jumping to the
backdrop of a sunset, with the joy of sweet release as the credits
rolled to only leave me with a face like a bulldog eating a wasp and
annoyed and frustrated that I have wasted time and money sitting
through another failed sequel that is sure to fade into obscurity 

Overall this movie lacks any fun or adventure, poorly directed as this
movie lacks any identify, wouldn't recommend this film to anyone other
than my worst enemy, all round disappointment
<|_=00=_|>
Really one of the top ten worst films I've seen in my life. The plot
was paper thin, if there was a plot at all. I knew going into this that
it was going to be mostly about the digital gorillas, the babe, and the
hunk. What I didn't expect was the flimsy dialogue, scenes unconnected
to the "plot" and such miserable drivel coming out of the mouths of the
actors. I was also surprised by the pseudo environmentalist doctrine
they weave into the plot. The babe is being taken away by the bad guys
to her death and the only thing she can say is, "Promise me you wont
hurt the animals." Really? The best line in the movie is when the black
guy says, "Can we just stop this?" My sentiments exactly. The overly
sensitive, crying, cannibal warlord was a bit too much.
<|_=00=_|>
*****Potential Spoilers*****

lost the plot

As more and more animated films are getting a modern make over, I can
say that I was genuinely excited when I saw the first teaser for this
Tarzan film. Straight away I was thinking of how my favourite scenes
from the previous movie would be brought back to life along with How
the animals would look, if they Would talk, At what point would we hear
the iconic Tarzan roar and of course how would the vine swinging look
with today's cgi technology. In my opinion the animated storyline was a
great foundation to work from and should have been ( for the majority
at least) left the same. The trailer when released made me almost
certain that that was going to be the case. Particularly after seeing
The shot of the tree house over looking the ocean and the gorillas
discovering Tarzan as a baby. 

However. . . . This story is being told very very very differently. The
entire story I was hoping to see brought back to life has already come
and gone. All You are treated to are multiple flashbacks throughout the
film to relive certain moments such as how Tarzan met Jane, what
happened to his parents and how he became one with the animals etc but
they couldn't even get that in the slightest bit right. The first time
you see Tarzan in this film you don't see the Tarzan we know and love
we instead see a well dressed, well spoken Tarzan ( called John) who is
discussing politics and events that are unfolding/about to unfold in
Africa. Straight away I felt like I was watching what should have been
a sequel to a revamped first film. 

Then who happens to appear . . . . Drum roll please . . . .who else but
Samuel L Bloody Jackson &#x1F62B;&#x1F62B; 

Playing a character that was completely out of sync and in all honesty
laughable. A character who found himself able to jump off cliffs and
land safely In trees, stand and watch Tarzan take on a full sized
gorilla with not a flicker of fear other than the occasion typical
Jackson outburst. A character that if changed into different clothing
could have been playing any off his previous roles. There was no
adaptation to suit the film. 

David Yates directing this film reminds me of Roy Hodgson managing the
England team during the Euros. Had a good base to work with but
ultimately had no idea how to put it together so that it worked. You
were only teased you with what could have or might have been. A fight
scene fuelled on the loss of loved ones and raw emotion that only
lasted a few minutes (with more than an underwhelming conclusion) would
be an example of that. 

The characters had no depth and this was not the Tarzan and Jane I was
hoping to see. That being said I think the choice of actors ( Samuel L
Jackson being the exception) were the right choices for their parts but
were portrayed completely wrong by the director and the direction of
the film. 

Bitterly disappointed with the plot, the characters and also some of
the visual affects. I think the majority of people who were expecting
or hoping to see what I was hoping to see will be as well.
<|_=00=_|>
(RATING: ☆☆☆½ out of 5) 

THIS FILM IS RECOMMENDED. 

IN BRIEF: A conventional approach to the Tarzan story which swings back
and forth, without getting anywhere. 

GRADE: B-

SYNOPSIS: The story of a little boy who goes ape.

JIM'S REVIEW: There have been many incarnations of the Tarzan legend,
starting with Edgar Rice Burroughs original 1914 novel, Tarzan of the
Apes. Our ape man has appeared in magazines, novels, comic books,
movies, radio, cartoons, and television shows, all with varying degrees
of success. Various actors have filled his loincloth, from the most
famous actor in this role, Johnny Weissmuller in the 1940's, to Gordon
Scott in the 1950's and Ron Ely taking hold of those vine reins in the
mid 60's. His legend lives on once again in this modern day re-boot,
The Legend of Tarzan, with Alexander Skarsgård as our muscle-toned
hero. 

The story adheres to its source and follows the basic outline of
Burrough's novel. Told in flashbacks, we learn of an infant left in the
jungle without parents and adopted by the great apes. Tarzan, now John
Clayton III, Lord Greystoke, lived and thrives in his tropical environs
until he was rescued and returned to England. Having difficulty
readjusting to British society, he finds a comrade in the beautiful
Jane Porter (a beguiling Margot Robbie). Upon his return to his
childhood home in the Congo, Greystoke (a.k.a. Tarzan) discovers man's
cruelty in the form of Belgian huntsman, Leon Rom (a typecast Christoph
Waltz, playing, what else, but the villain). Whereupon Tarzan must
takes sides to protect his adopted tribe of primates and protect his
homeland.

Mr. Skarsgård plays Tarzan as an eloquent victim, more at home with his
hairy friends than his human species. No "Me Tarzan, you Jane"
monosyllabic banter here, and no loincloth either. This Tarzan mixes
the physicality and brutishness of Stanley Kowalski with the
sophistication and aplomb of a true noble gentleman, no small feat. If
only the film matched his interpretation also.

The Legend of Tarzan is all too proper and seriously-minded which cuts
down on the fun and adventure. David Yates directs his film solidly,
keeping the action moving. Yet the production design by Stuart Craig
seems too well-crafted for its own good, nothing out of place. It lacks
authenticity in its detailing. This man-made jungle is just too
pristine, so clean and sanitized just like its story. (When the vines
look suspiciously like greenish rubber tubes and the cragged rocks like
painted styrofoam, something is a bit off.) The special effects aren't
that special either. Except for the primates, most of the animal
kingdom is obviously the results of CGI, effective but slightly unreal
and unsatisfying.

On the plus side, the fluid camera-work by Henry Braham has an
acrobatic energy, especially as Tarzan travels from vine to vine, the
best part of the cinematic experience. Mark Day's fine editing enhances
the effect. The panoramic vistas help to give the film a sense of epic
adventure, even if the adventures we witness never attain the grandeur
of other epic film tales due to its script.

The narrative structure swings from its more interesting backstories
(Tarzan's early life and upbringing, his adaptation to his aristocratic
England, Jane's personal journey) which are only hinted, to the
standard main story dealing with The Great White Hunter's poaching of
ivory, diamonds, and the slave trade...granted all important subjects,
but the treatment is painted in the most black and white terms with the
widest of brushstrokes. That's the problem...there are no grey stokes
in this Greystoke's version.

None of the characters are remotely real or believable, but the roles
are well cast. There is a nice chemistry between the two leads,
although their beauty reminds us too often of an Abercrombie and Fitch
ad. Both are gorgeous human specimens who fortunately can act, even if
the dialog that they are given by screenwriters Adam Cozad and Craig
Brewer, is banal and stilted.

Given strong support is Samuel L. Jackson as the real life George
Washington Williams, a political activist and do-gooder, but his
character, as written, speaks in anachronistic modern day jargon. Still
the actor brings much needed bravado and is amusing in his role. Djimon
Hounsou as the avenging chief does some effective underplaying when Mr.
Waltz again overplays the menace angle. However he does bring some
interesting human quirks to the part. (Nice moment with the silverware
arrangement, Christoph.)

All in all, the initial story line remains intriguing, the action
sequences entertain, and Mr. S. makes an awesome impression, all
swagger, six-pack, and sensitivity in a tight delightful manly package,
although his fluent English language skills are never addressed.

This Tarzan has its flaws, but it does keep the legend intact, until
the next chapter.

Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.com

ANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
<|_=00=_|>
I just experienced The Legend of Tarzan, and in the immortal words of
the Countess Olga de Coude "Magnifique!" is the only thing that I can
think. 

Sadly, I arrived at the theater for the early release of TLOT to an
empty theater. I sat alone in the center of the empty theater reading
my copy of The Return of Tarzan quietly in wait for the movie to begin.
Slowly a few other viewers trickled in but sadly, the theater might as
well have been completely empty. 

The previews for other movies came and went as previews do and then the
opening of this long awaited Tarzan began.

I sat in rapture as Edgar Rice Burroughs Tarzan came to life in front
of my eyes. Yes, It IS ERB's Tarzan. There are liberties that Mr. Yates
took with the characters and locations, but all in all, THIS IS TARZAN
as he was meant to be. Quiet, Strong, Passionate, steely eyed...
"Magnifique!" 

The Mangani are Mangani. They are not chimps nor gorillas. They are
huge, magnificent beasts. Were Mr. Burroughs alive today, I
wholeheartedly believe that he would jump up and down like a young
child shouting "YES! YES! That's them!"

Kala is every child's mother, protective and loving. The relationship
between Tarzan and her is perfectly portrayed. The love Tarzan feels
for his ape mother is passed on to the movie viewer to be felt, not
just seen.

The panoramic views of the jungle are even as ERB described them to be.
Dark, foreboding, beautiful and deadly. It is the jungle of Tarzan.

This is not an action movie in the vein of Captain America or any of
the modern action movies. It is a story. A very well told story of
adventure driven by the love of a man for his mate. Is there action? Of
course there is action. It wouldn't be Tarzan without action. But first
and foremost, it is a very well written and delivered story. It is a
story that Edgar Rice Burroughs himself would have told. He would be
proud and finally relieved that his creation had finally come to life
in a manner that does justice to his creative genius.

I sat through the movie mesmerized. Spellbound. It ended just like it
should, you won't be disappointed. 

As the credits began to roll, I quietly stood up, still in a mostly
empty theater, and walked out to my awaiting truck to drive home and
write this review.

If people listen to the critics who did not like this movie, they will
be missing out.

For those of us who love the works of Edgar Rice Burroughs, GO SEE THIS
MOVIE!

I wish I could say more, there is so much to say. I'll end this with
this. I'll go see it again, and again and when it comes out on DVD,
I'll own it and watch it till I have seen it as many times as I have
read the books, which is really saying something.
