
I was not interested in seeing this movie as I thought it would be a
stupid teen story. My daughter went with her older cousins, she is only
16 and since the theater had strict security I was forced to go in as
her guardian. I am 46 years old and I laughed the whole entire movie.
By the end I was laughing SO hard that I could not take it anymore. I
think I laughed more than the kids. There were so many laugh out loud
scenes and the interaction between the characters was pure gold.It
really took me back to my younger days-so for you older people this is
really one movie you do not want to miss. Be sure to go to the bathroom
before because this is definitely one of those pee in your pants
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed more in this movie than in any other of its ilk. Mostly
thanks to James Franco. Yes, the James Dean Franco. His comedic timing
is startling and his sympathy is all consuming. I think the secret is
that we can (Franco allows us) see the human being behind this
irresistible caricature. I was totally taken by the strange kind of
innocence he exudes. We sense a loyal buddy who is capable of
extraordinary generosity. His smile is already an iconic movie
landmark. Seth Rogen is also very funny but you can guess that this is
actually his character. Nothing wrong with that but James Franco's
range is infinite. David Gordon Green makes his "commercial debut" very
successfully. The showdown at the end takes a bit too long but all in
all this movie is throughly worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
There will be many who will dismiss "Pineapple Express" as immature,
overly silly, disjointed, and scatter-shot. There will be others who
recognize it as a bizarrely artful, playful, loose genre-bending comedy
with some outstanding performances, an inspired comedy script, and some
great work from director David Gordon Green, certainly one of the
finest young directors around.

The latter group is correct. "Pineapple Express" is, as a whole, the
best movie the Apatow clan has produced yet. David Gordon Green is
unquestionably the best director to direct one of these movies, but
this is also a very different sort of movie than the films he usually
directs. Does he rise to the challenge? He certainly does. I never
would have believed that he was capable of directing such exciting and
fun action scenes, or keep the movie's tone steady despite the
different elements it consists of being so wildly disparate, but
somehow he pulls it off. No other stoner movie can claim to be as
artful and well-directed as this film.

Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg's much-anticipated follow-up to "Superbad"
is an excellent screenplay, but expect none of the realism and
resonance of that film; "Pineapple Express" is all about the laughs,
and the laughs are certainly here, and they are practically non-stop,
with just about every scene featuring some great dialogue, acting, or
the sort of incredible sight gag this movie does so well. This is just
great comedy throughout. 

In addition to David Gordon Green's excellent work as director, the
film is technically superb. The soundtrack and use of music is
brilliant, and frequent Gordon Green collaborator Tim Orr's
cinematography is consistently great. 

"Pineapple Express" will be an inherently divisive film. It didn't get
the sort of critical accolades many previous Apatow clan movies did,
and I expect audiences will also be a little less unanimous. Indeed,
there's little of the critic-pleasing dramatic scenes Apatow's comedies
have been praised for, and even when they do pop up they're usually
deflated instantly with a joke, and credit has to go to director David
Gordon Green for his expert handling of the film's tone, which never
becomes schmaltzy, thank the heavens. Really, the whole film is
throughly enjoyable except for the very last scene in the film, which
contains one of the film's best jokes, but is really hard to buy given
the state the characters are in, and also more than a little forced.
Aside from that moment the whole thing works beautifully, quite
astounding given the mesh of many different genres and sorts of comedy
that this is. You either go with this movies sense of humor or you
don't, and I imagine more people will enjoy the first three quarters of
the movie, before the big, long action scene happens, and lots and lots
of violence occurs. I guess you have to have a somewhat morbid sense of
humor to laugh at ALL of the jokes in the film, but so what? There are
also some nice little tongue-in-cheek references to the film's
influences ("they messed with the wrong melon farmers"). 

The cast really give it their all. It was great to see James Franco
back in a comedic role, and his performance steals the show. Rogen is
good as usual, Gary Cole is a perfect villain, and it's nice to see the
gorgeous and talented Amber Heard finally make a quality film (and get
one of the film's funniest scenes as her character's final scene). The
supporting cast are also all good in their roles.

There are a lot of reasons why "Pineapple Express" won't work for many
people, and they will probably end up being the very reasons the film
works for those who like it. The film's plot is inherently silly to an
extent (although this is nowhere near the "Anchorman" style of comedy),
and one must be prepared for an outright comedy and not something in
the vein of "Knocked Up". "Pineapple Express" may end up being more
enjoyable for stoners and those with friends who are stoners, but it
works on its own as great comedy because the humor has much more range
and scope than just marijuana. One of the best comedies in years.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Bummer, The one great word to describe this movie. I Really expected
this movie to be a lot better. It was a major disappointment. The movie
was way too long, it had a lot of failed comedy in it, and it really
over exaggerated Pot smokers. Ill admit some stuff was funny in it but
it was definitely a let down. Im not quite sure how this movie managed
to make it into theaters, and also I do not get why James Franco would
even agree to such a stupid movie and part. If I could I would love to
get my $7USD back and go see the dark knight again. At least that movie
wasn't a let down like this one. My overall rating for this film is a
4/10
<|_=00=_|>
This started out as funny & clever and completely fell apart in the
second half of the movie. For the first half, I'd give it close to an 8
and for the second a zero, so we'll average out at a solid 4. The
second half ceased to be funny or clever and turned into one long,
idiotic clich√©. Honestly, it really felt like we lost our original set
of writers & directors after an hour and they had to find a replacement
set from some cheesy action movie. It totally came off the tracks when
our light-hearted stoners picked up machine guns along with the rest of
the thugs. Did the writers quit smoking weed and start doing meth or
something? How could this have started so good and ended up such crap?
I don't think I could be more disappointed after all the hype this
movie has received.
<|_=00=_|>
Seth Rogen is the type of actor who simply plays himself. In "Knocked
Up", there was a positive arc to the story where he plays a loser who
must take on adult responsibilities and eventually grow up. In
"Pineapple Express", he remains a loser and we can never believe in his
journey since he's pitted against a bunch of unlikeable, unsavory comic
book characters. 

Rogen plays Dale Denton, a process server, who witnesses a murder by a
drug dealer and then must elude the drug dealer's hired killers who are
out to get him. His buddy marijuana dealer, Saul Silver, joins him as
they elude the hit men. Right away you see how dumb the movie is when
Denton is able to witness a murder which occurs inside a house in full
view of anyone walking on the street. Another ridiculous moment occurs
when Saul's marijuana supplier is shot point blank in the stomach but
manages to survive and then is strong enough to drive Denton to the
drug dealer's lair. 

Of course those who wrote the movie undoubtedly will argue that the
situations are supposed to be over the top and that's the humor of it.
But there comes a point where there are so many scenes that are so
ridiculous that one simply doesn't care about the characters anymore.
Rogen and Franco do their Beavis and Butthead impersonations but their
humor has no subtlety and relies mainly on slapstick to get by. There's
a romantic subplot involving Denton's relationship with a girl who's a
high school student but that fizzles completely especially at the end
when the screenwriters forgot to tell us what happened between the two. 

While this is supposed to be a somewhat good-natured farce about two
guys who share a mutual love for marijuana, there's a lot of
unnecessary violence with drug dealers killing one another during the
finale. The ending undercuts the more good-natured scenes between the
film's two protagonists. 

If you check out the IMDb graph as to the age groups who liked this
film, you will see that the older you are, you are less likely to like
it. I feel certain that within five years, Seth Rogen will be a
forgotten name within the movie industry unless he stops writing and
acting in films such as this.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously, who thinks anything in this movie is funny? "Your car
committed suicide" was the only line to illicit even a chuckle out of
me. The rest is just people running around like morons and yelling a
lot. This is what the American Comedy genre has de-evovled to? I just
don't get it. 

And like someone else mentioned, so much of the story is just
ludicrious. So, a guy bleeding to death, another in his underwear and
his ear shot off, sitting in a diner eating breakfast, and no one
notices or cares? And folks, Daylight savings always happens on a
weekend, not a Tuesday. That's all I needed to pretty much check out
right there. 

Go watch paint dry instead.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a year since the glorious Superbad hit theaters, and here we
go again: Pineapple Express is the best comedy of the year, at least in
this man's opinion. I haven't laughed this hard in a very long time,
nor have I enjoyed myself more while doing so. It's got everything!
Fire, weed, guns, car chases, explosions, a beautiful lady, Ed Begley
Jr., and of course, blood and guts. Yes, I'm reviewing Pineapple
Express, and not some twisted horror movie.

What makes this movie so great and accessible (to the viewer that is
allowed to see it, mind you) is that it's got something for every kind
of comedy fan: ridiculous action gags, the witty and snappy
Apatow-brand dialog, funny cops, hilarious pot jokes, and James Franco
playing the most lovable stoner of all time. What I really enjoyed most
about this movie is that it has real heart and is not afraid to make
the audience know it. It's a great buddy movie to see with all your
friends. It doesn't matter if you're a guy or a girl, you'll love
Pineapple Express.

James Franco (yes, THAT James Franco), taking a break from the latest
intense drama or Spider-Man film, delivers the funniest performance
since Sacha Baron Cohen in Borat. His Saul is quite the character, and
many people in my audience were hopelessly in love with and rooting for
him. Though he's a supporting role, the movie belongs to Franco in
every way. His honest, sweet, and hilariously charming performance will
have you dying of laughter. Seth Rogen is no slouch on the jokes as
well, though his character is somewhat similar to his character in
Knocked Up (I really hope he doesn't begin replicating his performances
like some other comedians do). Danny McBride of The Heartbreak Kid is a
scene stealer as well. I found him absolutely hilarious and great even
if his character was a total ass. Gary Cole (who has become like, a
cult favorite of mine) is nothing but a bonus as the "villain".

I think a lot of credit needs to be given to director David Gordon
Green, who had to have noticed how excellent the first act of the film
is, because the film was in serious danger of pulling a "Hancock" and
falling flat on its face after the first act because of a somewhat
serious second act (I say somewhat, because this is when our characters
realize the danger they're in). However, instead of that happening,
Green turns the action packed third act into one of the most
ridiculously hilarious scenes of recent memory. Of course, what happens
is absurd, but because you've had the time of your life up to that
point, you really don't care. Featuring one of the greatest lines of
all time (in slow motion, uttered by Franco of course), Pineapple has
one of the strongest third acts of any comedy out there.

Another very strong thing about this movie is that it never drags, and
is almost a complete opposite of Superbad. The style of the jokes is
different as well. In Superbad, we had the hard hitting, gut wrenching
laughs, and in Pineapple Express, we have a steady flow of crack ups
that leave the viewer in stitches and hurting by the end of the movie.
It really is an experience to behold. It's one of the funniest movies
of the decade, and one of the best theater experiences of this year. My
theater clapped several times throughout the film, including at the end
(and at the iconic slow motion line).
<|_=00=_|>
I really didn't expect much from this film,and I got less than
expected.The film starts out a with a few used moments from Super Bad,
maybe from the cutting room floor, then it turns into this bad pot
action movie with all the crude humor you can squeeze in. The plot
seemed basic and then it became too eccentric. You have a process
server who witnesses a murder done by the guy he needs to serve papers
to played by Gary Cole, who is wasted by little screen time and bad
writing, and by a dirty cop played by Rosie Perez, who is always in
uniform, which is kind of dumb that even at the final shoot out, she
shows up in uniform. James Franco completely ripped off his character
from Brad Pitt's portrayal as a pothead in True Romance, which he stole
the scene in the three he was in. We then are introduced to James
Franco's supplier "RED" who is trying to be like Nick Swardson and
doing a bad job at it. The scene with him is long, out played and just
goes in every direction except moving the movie forward. Finally Seth
Rogen who seems to have phoned in his performance or just played the
same guy from Knocked up and Super Bad just gives a performance that
irritates you with the best friend lines. Now the movie made me chuckle
a few times but the long dragged out scenes and then switching to a
fast paced action movie not only confused me, but made me bored. So I
give this movie 1 star out of 10 for a few quick funny moments.
<|_=00=_|>
Having gone to the midnight showing with a friend, I was as excited as
the rest of the country in witnessing what should have been the
greatest comedy of the year to every young adult in the audience.
Suffice it to say I was very disappointed. The movie turned out to be
one big running "Bro" gag after another.

That being said, let's evaluate the plot of the movie. The basic idea
of the film is based around a pothead Dale Denton ( Seth Rogen ) who
serves court orders and his dealer Saul Silver ( James Franco). Denton,
while finding one of his court orders targets Ted Jones ( Gary Cole )
witnesses the shooting of an Asian drug dealer at Jones's very
residence! Panicking, he backs into a corrupt cop's car, into another
car and then speeds off in a very amusing scene. From this point on,
Denton and the man whose home he returns to, Silver, are forced to go
on the run from an insanely persistent drug lord and his thugs who want
nothing more than to kill Dale Denton for witnessing the crime. NONE of
that is bad whatsoever. It is a simplistic plot that fits a frame
perfectly for an action/comedy flick.

It is unfortunate that one of the main reasons I mark this film down is
for Seth Rogan's performance. Granted, he has always been a popular
actor for "Bro" crowds, but this is a new low. NONE of his material was
amusing. His character was virtually the same as his character in
Knocked Up, with the only difference being that he stays in his life of
pot smoking in the conclusion of this film whereas in Knocked Up he
changes his lifestyle. Most of the jokes that Dale Denton is privy too
are idiotic even for an Apatow film. His slapstick and mannerisms did
more to degrade this film's quality than even the sad fact that this
movie will probably convince the American public that marijuana is the
way to go in life. And no, I am not anti-weed.

As for how the plot is actually carried out, here is another mark down.
It progresses in a linear fashion ( trying to find the man responsible
for ratting them out to Ted Jones ) and then suddenly flops into a
barrage of stupid scenes involving Denton's underage girlfriend and her
absurd father. To make matters worse, the comedy that is used
throughout the majority of the film to progress the story is as stale
as Seth Rogan's performance.

All of that out in the open, I should mention I have NEVER been a fan
of James Franco. I will not deny, he was Phenomenal in this film. Every
poor line from Seth Rogan and Danny McBride ( actor who played Red )
was redeemed by his performance as Saul Silver. His character, his
portrayal and the comedy that ensues was a riot. Most of his lines made
me want to wet myself laughing. If any award should be given out for
lead actor, it should be given to James Franco.

Gary Cole gave a great performance as a whack bad guy in this film as
well, and I would be lying if I said he in any way took away from this
film. It is unfortunate that his talents, as well as the talents of
James Franco, had to be wasted on this production.

The third character meant to be a protagonist in a certain sense is Red
(Danny Mcbride). Unfortunately, I would argue that his character was as
worthless as Denton. Every line from his mouth was one bad comedy
clich√©' after another that we've all heard over and over again from
different films. The pathetic white wanna be thug acting like his life
is greater than it is can be seen in films like Waiting ( Andy
Milonakes ). Granted, it was amusing when Red in all rights should have
died early in the movie and kept returning, but eventually you have to
wonder why he's allowed to keep living.

What the film lacked in value to the comedy world it also failed to
make up for in substance. There was no great lesson or revelation that
the viewer was to experience at the end of the film as in more
contemporary modern films, nor was there a moment when the protagonist
learned his mistakes and made up for them in years to come (Knocked Up,
40 Year Old Virgin, Waiting). Perhaps the filmmakers were trying to be
different in this regard, but unfortunately it did not redeem the
movie. I had heard Olivia Thirlby ( Juno, The Whackness) was to be in
the film.. maybe the extras on the DVD will have her and perhaps offer
more substance into the film, who knows.

This was a long critique and for that I apologize. If you must walk
away with anything from this review, then let it be this: If you want
to see James Franco give a memorable performance, this film is for you.
But I caution that his acting aside, this is one of those films that
makes me weep for how idiotic and simplistic our culture is becoming--
that, and every "Bro" in your town will be there, so be ready for that
hell when you get there.

5/10 ONLY for James Franco and Gary Cole.
