
No one involved with this movie cared about making a good movie.
Because they don't need to. The Spiderman movies will make money no
matter good or bad they are. But that doesn't mean they should not try
to. Why did this movie get made? Simple, Sam Raimi wasn't given enough
time to make a fourth spider-man film so he quit, and the fans wanted
to see the lizard on screen. This movie wasn't made for any other
reason.

First off, Peter Parker doesn't have a goal in this movie. At first its
to find out what happened to his parents, which isn't explained in this
movie. After half an hour he now tries to control his new powers, in
scenes that don't help the audience. In the original spider-man, Peter
learned about his powers in a controlled environment, he didn't beat up
innocent people on a subway train. It's nice to know no one on that
train reported that a man beat up five people while climbing walls. But
Peter learning his powers can't be an entire focus in the movie, so we
kill Uncle Ben. This time it doesn't work because the only reason Peter
let the criminal get away was because Peter couldn't get a chocolate
milk. To get so upset that he couldn't afford a chocolate milk that he
would let a robber get away with the stores money is a contrivance in
every way. So for about ten minutes Peters new goal is to bring uncle
Ben's murderer to justice, let the police can't link all these look
alike criminals spider-man does capture with the man who did kill
peters uncle. After a while he just stops doing this, with no reason!
And there is still about an hour left, so what are we going to do now?
How about introduce that main villain you've been promising us? The
Lizard is horribly written in every scene he's in. Why does he go to so
much trouble to knock cars off of a bridge just to tell one guy (who is
never seen afterwords) that their vaccine isn't ready yet? Because we
needed another action scene. After that they bring up that the daily
bugle wants pictures of the lizard, a point that doesn't amount to
anything, except the lizard finding out who spider-man is. For someone
as smart as Peter Parker has been set up to be it was really stupid for
him to put his name on the camera he was using to take pictures of the
lizard.

The climax doesn't work for 2 reasons. The first being this is the same
climax we've seen in about four other superhero movies. The second one
being there are no stakes. Only half of Manhattan would be infected 8
minutes after the lizard started his chemical missile, decreasing the
people at risk greatly. Also THERE'S A CURE FOR THIS!! You know, the
thing Gwen has been working on for the past 6 minutes? Whoever gets
infected can just get the cure shot into them afterwords, and as of
right now there are only 10 people infected, so why waster your time
trying to put the cure into the missile that will stretch half of
Manhattan and only effect 10 people?! 

Gwen Stacy's dad dies and tells Peter to leave Gwen out of this, and
proceeds to still date Gwen. What a great way to respect someone who
died protecting people! Don't watch this movie, don't waste your time
with this movie, even Spiderman 3 was better than this, so just watch
the Sam Raimi trilogy, at least those movies had effort put into them.
<|_=00=_|>
With the success of the first X-Men movie in 2000, Bryan Singer pretty
much paved the way for all the comic book movies we see today. That
included a certain super hero movie made by Sami Rami in 2002 where a
nerdy guy (Tobey Maguire) gets bitten by a radioactive spider and
inherits superhuman powers. If Singer had paved the way, then Rami
provided the icing on the cake: a faithful, smart, well-acted super
hero flick that had as much heart and sincerity packed in as it had all
those set pieces. It also lead to a superior sequel and the much
maligned, though underrated, third episode.

Which brings us to what we have here: while not a beat for beat remake,
you get the same story more or less with a different love interest and
villain. Peter Parker (Andrew Garfield) sneaks into a research facility
and gets bitten by a radioactive/genetically enhanced spider. He gets
super powers and becomes Spider-Man. Meanwhile, a doctor (Rhys Ifans)
working at the same facility, is being forced to close down his
research into tissue regeneration. In desperation, he injects himself
with an untested self-generating lizard vaccine and becomes a half
man/half lizard thing. Spider-Man is then forced into action to stop
him from spreading this contagion throughout the city of New York. Gwen
Stacy (Emma Stone) is the damsel in distress/love interest and plays a
role in trying to stop the crazed beast.

First things first: this is not a bad film. It's well acted by all the
principals, has good effects, a scary and menacing villain, some nice
action sequences and web swinging effects that are generally slightly
more realistic than the Rami version. Parker is more evidently
scientific and intelligent here. Also the police's notion that
Spider-Man is a menace to the public is more clearly defined,
especially in the scene where he disarms an officer. The new idea is
that Parker can hear the movements of spiders and it's a good addition.
So where does it all go wrong? The short answer: it's just that it's
so pointless. 

We had already seen the story before. There was absolutely no reason to
tell it again. This movie could easily have been Spider-Man 4 with
Andrew Garfield filling in the Spidey spandex instead of Tobey Maguire.
But Marvel  in their infinite wisdom  just chose to tell the same
story a second time. Going by that rationale, presumably Andrew
Garfield will be cast aside like a disused sock when they inevitably
choose to 'reboot' the franchise again in ten years or so. It is a
scarily unimaginative tactic and it is one they will continue to do
until there is a massive financial failure.

This movie follows the same set up as the 2002 version: Parker being
picked on, getting advice from his sage-like uncle (Martin Sheen),
being bitten, getting his powers/climbing walls, and turning his back
on a situation which unfortunately has tragic consequences for a family
member. It's all a case of been there, done that. If you want to
compare it to the Rami original, then the short answer is; as good as
Andrew Garfield is, Tobey Maguire was better. Maguire filled the suit
better; on occasion, Garfield is prone to looking thin and scrawny
during several scenes. Even the suit looked better in the Rami movies.
And those earlier movies had a heart and sincerity  especially in the
relationship between Peter and his aunt and uncle that you don't see
here. Again we ask: why does this movie exist?

And there are holes: there's a massive lizard running around, wreaking
havoc; yet the police are more preoccupied with pointing their guns at
Spider-Man  despite the fact that he saved a child in a (surprise,
surprise) rehashed scene set on a bridge taken from Rami's first movie.
In another part, the citizens of the city (once again - in a bit taken
from Rami's movie) unite to help Spider-Man cross the city using tower
cranes  despite the fact that there are buildings all around him.
Heck, even the villain is initially a do-gooder like Norman Osborn and
Dr. Octavius  again from the Rami movies.

It also seems to pull inspiration from another super hero movie:
Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins (2005) in that it's slightly darker,
tells such a large origin story that just like Batman Begins,
Spider-Man doesn't actually show up on screen for the first hour. So if
you take two parts Batman Begins and add a touch of Rami's Spider-Man,
the result is what you have here. Additionally, the introduction of the
web shooters, while being faithful to the original comics and
emphasizing Parker's intellect, is a bit of a mixed blessing. The
notion of the web being an organic material rather than being fired
from mechanical devices actually made more sense.

It's not that reboots are a bad idea, they're not. In certain
situations they can work well, provided for example, enough time has
elapsed. But there is no point in retelling the same story if the
initial release is still relatively recent. In addition, it helps if
the story wasn't covered well the first time, or it was a bad movie to
begin with. Going by this criteria, Marvel's latest cash cow is
unnecessary on all three accounts.

In closing, if you haven't already seen the Rami movie from 2002, go
watch it instead. If you have seen it, then this probably won't live up
to it and you will be left feeling a little underwhelmed. It's fair to
say that for anyone over the age of eighteen, this movie will seem
rather half-hearted and senseless; for those under eighteen, this movie
will probably be the greatest super hero flick ever. Yes, it's a movie
that will divide opinions, primarily on the sole reason for its
existence. Not a bad, or a badly made flick, by any means just a
pointless one.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a fan of Spiderman since childhood. In fact, he has been my
favorite superhero. I liked Spiderman 1, 2 and 3; watched Spiderman 3
twice, despite many reviewers bashing it.

So it's natural I was waiting eagerly for The Amazing Spiderman. I was
more eager because this movie was rebooting the Spiderman franchise
with new cast that included Indian actor, Irfan Khan and it was getting
released in India before US! Unfortunately, it turned out to be a big
disappointment. It was like they didn't make a Spiderman movie, but a
caricature-remake or a spoof of it. Bad script, confused and weak
characters, bad direction and bad editing are some of the major flaws.
Story was too bland, no spice, no excitement.

The important scenes where Peter gets bitten or hones his skills or
makes his suit have been hurried and short, while the irrelevant scenes
have been dragged.

Spiderman gets beaten, defeated, injured repeatedly. In fact, the
audience was laughing hard on the repeated scenes of him coming home
all thrashed and bruised and his aunt talking to him about it. He keeps
removing his mask for just anybody and that's not very Spiderman-like.

Most action scenes were non-thrilling. In a scene where Spiderman
rescues a boy from a falling and burning car, he wastes almost 5
minutes trying to convince Jack (the boy) to be brave, climb up and
hold his hand. He even gives the boy his mask, but the boy doesn't
follow him. So in the end he has to throw his spider-thread to pull
Jack up. He could have done that already and spared us of that boredom.

It was just an example. Most encounters between the lizard-man and
Spiderman were equally boring, dragged and nonsensical.

There were a lot of loose ends and missing links in the story. Like the
story of Peter's parents was never shown, but the characters kept
mentioning it. Dr. Ratha talks about some Mr. Osbourne, but neither the
man nor his story was shown. Maybe they're keeping it for the sequel,
but the confusion totally spoiled this movie. A lot of inconsistencies
were there too. Sometimes things stick to Peter's hands and break by
little force, sometimes they don't.

The romance between Peter/Spiderman and Gwen looked lukewarm and
forced. The scene where the burglar kills Peter's uncle looked awkward
and disconnected like many other scenes.

Andrew Garfield didn't look much convincing either as nerdy Peter
Parker or as Spiderman. He was good in The Social Network but a
disappointment in this movie. In many body-close-up shots he was
bending forward apparently to hide his penis-line from showing in the
tight-suit. That made the already weak Spiderman look even weaker.
Since when have Hollywood actors become this bashful?

Irfan Khan appeared in just 3 short scenes. He was more like an extra.
But the audience welcomed him with a bout of whistling!

Everyone seemed to be waiting anxiously for the movie to end, which
ends after further boring you for some time after the defeat of the
villain. So much I wish, they had made Spiderman 4 with Tobey Maguire
instead of this disaster.

I might as well watch Rajnikant's Robot now
<|_=00=_|>
After the last film, I was hard pressed to think that this one could be
worse. Well, sure enough it is.

Warning, spoilers ahead.

The reasons that this film isn't good are simple: Most of the action
scenes, take place at night- and are visually uninteresting as the CGI
and night sky don't make good bedfellows. There is one action scene at
day in which you can actually see what's going on, and its in a high
school that clearly isn't anywhere within a three mile radius of New
York.

We all understand how they shoot interiors in Culver City.. But the
last spiderman films seamlessly blended shoots from Chicago, New York,
Los Angeles without the audience ever noticing. This film does not, in
fact the only attempt to make the high school look like New York is a
lame sign.

This film's story has been done before, you've seen it before and with
the exception of the Osbournes and the color of the love interests
hair, there is not much new to this story.

Dennis Leary is great, as is Martin Sheen but they're both killed off.
Martin Sheen is killed off in the beginning of this boring movie,
making it more painful as he was one of the only reliefs.

Aunt May is written so poorly, that she has nothing to do in this
movie. She sits at home and watches TV and screams at Peter when she
sees him. Not exactly a challenging role for the great Sally Field.

There was little care that went into the quality of this film, and the
attempts at making it dark are just flat out Corny such as the cannibal
rat, which is pure comedy and comes out of nowhere to 'shock' the
audience.

There seems to be no conflict between Peter and his girlfriend at the
end of the story, which one would logically want to assume that she
holds out some contempt for spiderman as Harry did in the original
spiderman after Spiderman played a hand in his death. Spiderman did
play a hand in the Captain's death, yet the daughter doesn't seem to
mind that Peter was there when he was murdered.

This film had great visual effects, obscured by the night time setting
and slow down camera techniques. Other than that, it's a music video
and it pulls NO surprises. You have already seen this film if you've
seen the extended trailer, or the 2002 Green Goblin movie.

The chemistry between the two leads is lame, with Andrew Garfield who
is wonderful in other films and stage productions giving a few moments
of over-acting that take away Peter's humanity and spell the word HAM
with it. Also, they appear to be improvising in some of their scenes,
the result is two young, MEGA-RICH people trying to imagine what blue-
collared kids from Queen's social customs would be like, and let me
tell you they FAIL in a telling and Inauthentic way.

This movie does not have you believe in the setting or characters at
all. It is just ridiculous.
<|_=00=_|>
In one scene, right after a spider in the Oscorp Laboratories bites
Peter Parker: he falls asleep in a subway only to be awakened by a
random loser who (for some strange reason) places a beer bottle on
Parker's head. A drop of water from the bottle rolls down onto Peter's
face, causing him to fling to the top of the car and stick to the
ceiling  like a spider.

Over a dozen people witness this spectacular feat... and what happens
next? A lady gets miffed because some of the beer spilled on her
clothes. That particular reaction sums up how amazing the entire film
is. After fully realizing his powers and using them to skateboard with
furious bravado outside his high school, Peter Parker (much too)
quickly dons the Spidey outfit that seems more like a surfer's wetsuit
than a real transformation.

He seeks his uncle's murderer from the supposedly pivotal scene lacking
the tragic fate of the protagonist's mentor in Sam Raimi's version.
This doesn't perpetuate Parker into a vengeful vigilante misusing his
powers, but gives him reason to fly around wielding his skills that
actor Andrew Garfield never seems in any particular awe about. The
SOCIAL NETWORK star, resembling Anthony Perkins had he become a
melancholy hipster, doesn't give Peter Parker the underdog value Tobey
Maguire successfully conveyed  but that's the scripts fault. Parker's
not a nerd or even an outcast; having lost his parents for mysterious
reasons, he's simply not a happy camper.

Other than the rushed changeling into the titular superhero, there's
hardly any character arc for the good guy or the villain. Osco's
resident genius Dr. Curt Conner's transforms into The Lizard so quick,
running amok New York City like a raptor on steroids, there's not much
reason, or worthy motivation, for his actions.

But (all) this lack of purpose fits a movie that, when not wallowing in
romantic melodrama between Parker and girlfriend Gwen Stacey whose dad
is a hard-nosed cop and a weak replacement for a much-needed human
antagonist like J. Jonah Jameson doesn't live up to the original film
or the comic books that at least, for better or worse, had a good time.

For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
<|_=00=_|>
I don't have an argument that Spider-Man's origin story didn't need to
be remade for I've seen plenty of very decent to mediocre reboots
before. But, what makes this a worthless remake was that it backtracked
on all that was good before it.

Heart, soul, good soundtrack, excellent score, acting, chemistry,
heroism, humor and quotable dialogue were present in the original
Spider-Man movies  and yeah, even #3. This movie lacked ALL of those.
Heck, it even deleted one of the main characters and often hilarious:
J. Johan Jameson. Shame.

I was even willing to over look the obvious first hour or so that
inevitably retold the same old story of pansy Parker, a love interest,
the bullies, the Aunt & Uncle, the spider bite, the transformation and
the first try-outs. Without anyone (and I guess me now) spoiling that,
we all knew that was coming. But, what I didn't foresee was how blah it
all was going to be. How boring and trite.

And pleasePLEASE do not let the advertisements fool you into filling
a seat for a movie you've seen before: "The Untold Story" was about as
revealing as finding out about Ellen Ripley's all-but irrelevant
daughter in the director's cut of Aliens.

What the movie is trying to tell us is that Spider-Man is a hero, that
he loves Gwen Stacy and that, despite how great the Hulk looked in The
Avengers, a giant lizard man can look real on screen using 1996's
technology. No apologies: I didn't buy any one of these things the
script displayed. In fact, it showed so much and yet, so much felt left
out. So many story lines began and either faded or we're given half-ass
explanations.

Don't get me wrong; I didn't full-on hate on The Amazing Spider-Man. Of
the approximately 20 minutes (of 136) of screen time Spidey was on the
screen, he lookeddecent, albeit the shots still looked like deleted
scenes from the previous series. And even though Tobey Maguire spun
webs around Andrew Garfield's Parker, he still did a good job. I will
even give it to both the script and Garfield: Spider-Man's signature
sarcasm was funnier this time around.

Is it redundant to give the synopsis since I already reviewed the
10-year-old original? Yes, except this time around instead of a green
bad guy from Oscorp being human, this one had a green bad guy from
Oscorp being a laughable CGI Godzilla offspring. Oh, and as much as I
love Emma Stone, her character, Gwen Stacy, first introduced in
Spider-Man 3, was so lifeless, you'd have to miss Kirsten Dunst's Mary
Jane.

I simply cannot recommend this movie. Again, of the 136 minutes, 40
were good, but that did not outweigh the bad-3-D effects or 96 other
slow-paced, unoriginal and uninspiring minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
Probably it's because I've seen the Tobey-Man and this is the reason I
give this movie such a low score. I wanted to learn more about Peter's
parents, but did not. "They were scientists." So what? That's not even
5% of what I needed to find out. Tobey-Man was on par with emotions,
stunts and discovering the character. Here your uncle dies and what you
see is 2 mins of drama about him. They really did not expand the
characters and that led to my disappointment. 

This really isn't the spider-man I wanted to see (full of questioning,
thoughts and hardship). This guy was crying one minute and kissing the
girl in another. Did I even mention that the suit did not fully fit
him? Did I mention that Peter became a super scientists in 5 mins after
he start reading 2 books and a couple of documents that do not make
sense? Since when kids study genetics in school so deeply? 

Tobey-Man's story deeper and more interesting. You could see the bright
side of having super powers and the dark of constantly having the
responsibility to hide your identity and take care of the closest. The
new Spidey did little effort to hide his id. I could actually say that
he was waving his mask the entire movie...

If you were happy with Tobey-man, stick with him!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't like to be the downer on this movie, but I've just got back
from watching it at my local cinema and I've already forgotten about
it! I was expecting good things, 215 million spent on the movie, Emma
Stone (big fan), Andrew Garfield (up and coming, great in Social
Network) and Martin Sheen as a co-star, come on it should have been
better.

I got lost in the lack of a plot, it felt like it all happened over a
day or two, the acting was limited, even Emma Stone only seemed to
convince in a few scenes. At times it was as if I'd gone back in time
and was stuck watching the Hulk again! please, please, not again! It
just seemed so mixed up,there were a few, and when I say a few, I mean
more than two! decent scenes! a couple of jokes thrown in, but then it
was back to mediocre, what the heck happened to Denis Leary, after
Rescue Me, you'd think that this guy could act now.

For me, and this is only my humble opinion, it was a bid disappointment
that made me wonder why I went in the first place. Once again Hollywood
got me, with their big budget advertising machine. 

But maybe it's me, IMDb's never wrong is it? and maybe, just maybe, as
I didn't watch it in 3D and could see the movie this time, I'm wrong!
<|_=00=_|>
It has been 24 hrs (app.) since i have seen the movie and i am still
desperately trying to understand what was the target market in the mind
of the director ? The movie was too complicated for children and was
strange for adults like me.

Despite of Emma stone and Sally field being totally wasted in their
respective roles. I still thought that Andrew garfield would do a good
job in the movie or at least justice to the spider-man character but he
too seemed lost in the school (He is only 28years old) Why did peter
and gwen need to go to a school school which occupies half of Manhattan
? as if that is possible in NY.

Dr. Connors seemed deranged more than seeming like a genius. when you
see a Marvel movie you expect the villain to display a lot of shades of
grey and here we had an antagonist who seemed to be obsessed with
improving mankind of all its weakness.

our dear Dr. Norman Osborn seemed to be dying in the movie (God save
the green goblin, what are we going to do in the sequel if the green
goblin is not saved !!!) Irfan khan was visiting from the sets of MIB4
or maybe 5 he seems better suited there and not as a scientist dressed
in all black.

Peter's parents have a small side track which is left unexplained that
it leaves viewers perplexed as to why did we just waste 20 minutes
talking about them !!! A dying police chief applauds spider-man for his
service to NY and tells him that he is meant for great things but also
makes him promise to stay away from his daughter. The man just gave his
life for the country but seems to be an overprotective father.

I had gone in thinking that i would see a movie as amazing as The
Avengers but clearly i was disappointed. Sam Raimi was better and we
want him back.
<|_=00=_|>
The Amazing Spider-Man is supposed to be a reboot of the Spider-Man
movie franchise. Tobey Maguire is replaced by Andrew Garfield in the
protagonist role of Peter Parker. His main love interest switches from
Mary-Jane Watson to Gwen Stacy, and the villain in this installment is
Dr Curt Connors aka Lizard. As expected, this reboot goes back to the
beginning when Peter Parker becomes Spider-Man only it is told in a
rather different way to the 2002 movie. This time they also try to add
a bit more character oriented storyline.

Is it a good movie? Yes, particularly since I saw this movie in IMAX.
This made the action scenes more exciting to watch. It also uses a
villain that hasn't been used in the previous movies so at least it
does make it different from the previous movies.

Is it a successful reboot of the franchise? In my opinion, not really.
It's been five years since the last Spider-Man movie came out, and ten
years since the movie franchise was first introduced. Even when they
made the announcement of this movie being made, I was questioning it
because it's just too soon to make a reboot. For the same reason, this
reboot is not refreshing. Without trying to give anything away, you can
recognise that this movie takes some of the elements from the 2002
movie. The character oriented storyline doesn't add that much meat to
the character of Peter Parker as its supposed to. Its easier to count
this as another installment only with different actors playing the
roles.

I really enjoyed the first three Spider-Man movies, and yes that
includes Spider-Man 3. This new Spider-Man movie is also enjoyable but
it fails to refresh the series. It seems that I was right in thinking
that its too soon to do so.
