
I just got out of a midnight showing and I was absolutely blown away. I
fully expect this to be a mediocre movie at best, but it surprised me
in all aspects. It was well directed, acted, the action scenes were
actually very well done and pretty epic, and most of all it was
hilarious. I doubt I stopped laughing for more than a minute or two. I
don't want to give anything away so I will keep it brief, but do
yourself a favor and see this in theaters with friends.

PS. As a black man, I did not find Robert Downey Jr.'s character
offensive at all. He was probably the most hilarious character in the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
'Tropic Thunder' is the sharpest, nastiest, and most honest parody of
Hollywood since Altman's 'The Player'.

If Doweny Jr. in black face, the script's use of "retard", or the
politically incorrect humor offends you, you're missing the point.

Only Russel Crowe, Robin Williams, and Harvey Weinstein should take
offense. The parodies of their personalities, their films, and their
business tactics are downright cruel. (But, so, so true, and so
brilliant.) I must credit every actor -- particularly Downey Jr. and
Cruise -- for their performances, and for making their characters more
than stereotypes for cheap laughs.

The more you know about Hollywood, the more you will appreciate the
film. If not, just go and laugh at the genre. It takes balls to leave
in a scene discussing how Blue-Ray conquered HD-DVD (and expect anyone
to fine it funny). But it is funny.

To utterly relish the insanity, brush up on 'Hearts of Darkness: A
Filmmaker's Apocalypse'.

They got it so right. So, so, so right.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite my somewhat indifference, bordering on dislike, of Ben Stiller
and most of what he does, Tropic Thunder has been on my
much-anticipated list for some time now. The audacity of what he was
attempting, spoofing the industry that was giving him the money to do
so, blatantly and lovingly, was too great to ignore. And then there is
the cast of stars with cameo after cameo of surprise faces joining in
on the fun, not to mention the intense marketing strategy pushing it
along. Websites for each fictional actor, a site with clips from the
Rain of Madness making of documentary (a Heart of Darkness send up
"directed" by co-writer Justin Theroux), and even a faux E! True
Hollywood Story to air the week before its premiere in theatres just
add to the mythology and attention to detail that went into its making.
Now, having finally seen the end result, I must say it didn't let me
down. True, I was expecting more in the way of story and plot,
especially with all that background info manufactured, but when you get
down to it, the entertainment value is off the charts, the one-liners
are going to be quoted for years to come, and the laughs come often and
hard.

To take on subject matter as lofty as a send-up to war films, mainly
Apocalypse Now, needs a certain amount to bravery and confidence to not
care if it all backfires. The production value and effects make this
seem as though it is a certified blockbuster falling apart at the
seams. Sure the characters are funny and the events on display
hilarious, but by the look and feel of the aesthetic, this is a war
film to the end. Between that realism and the love I have for
meta-narrative, there was little chance Stiller would be bombing in my
eyes. Something about movies within movies intrigue the heck out of me,
and this one having actors within actors just played up my interest
more. There was truly no better way to start this movie then how was
done: the playing of Alpa Chino's rap music, consumerism selling
commercial and trailers for our three leads' previous films. What
better way to be introduced to our action star, our funnyman, and our
award winning thespian? Knowing full well the extent of satire going
on, each spot delivers, giving a little background into the work these
men have done in the past.

Directly connecting with the subsequent shot, a live scene from the
film at hand, the egos finally come out and show face. Jack Black's
Jeff Portney reins in his comedian schtick to portray a hardened
solider, voice rasping as he shows his serious side; Stiller's Tugg
Speedman attempts to revive the action cred he tried to leave behind
with his Oscar-bait turn as a mentally handicapped man in Simple Jack,
where he went "full retarded, no one ever comes back from that"; and
Robert Downey Jr.'s Kirk Lazarus, Australian genius at his craft,
playing a black man like he was born one. The scene continues without a
hitch, explosions everywhere, screams heard in the distance, and a
heartfelt death about to be delivered, until the men show their true
colors. Tugg can't make himself cry, (he's just not that good), and
Kirk's blubbering and drooling is just so real that the two must
partake in a pissing match while effects guru Cody, (the red hot of
late Danny McBride), let's loose the one-take only scorched earth fire
storm. It's all falling apart and script-writer/former soldier Four
Leaf, (the always gruff Nick Nolte), gets the director, (Steve Coogan
with one of the best film exits I've ever seen), to agree on guerilla
filming, deep in the jungle of foreign lands. Here is where the fun
begins and where the movie inside the movie becomes real, or, in
effect, the actual moviekind of like "the dude playing the dude,
disguised as another dude". The levels at play here are just too many
to mention.

Besides a weakly written role for Black, the rest of the men are given
enough to work with for some truly great moments. Stiller has a few
instances where he returns to his over-long annoying routinepouring
"fake" blood into his mouth for onebut for the most part did a real
good job, especially with his tough guy poses shooting off his gun. Jay
Baruchel shines as the only non-celebrity involved, the guy who went to
boot camp, read the novel and the script, and idolizes the men he is
working with. Good to see him get a more beefed up role as opposed to
the side parts in Apatow films. And the back and forth between Downey
Jr. and Brandon T. Jackson's Alpa never get old. The whole dynamic of
real black man versus fake was unceasingly funny.

There were plot points that irked me throughout, TiVo's cameo being the
biggest culprit, but I found myself pushing the problems aside and just
enjoying the ride. Downey Jr.'s facial expressions, voices, and
presence may steal the show, but what really allowed me to forget my
worries was an absolutely brilliant cameo from Tom Cruise. His studio
executive, pompously crass, loud-mouth made me think of all the horror
stories you hear about the Weinsteins, and his dance moves can not be
equaled. Tropic Thunder is first and foremost a vehicle for a bunch of
friends to have a blast poking fun at their craft and really at
themselves. I'll be remembering quotes all night now, thinking that
while the story itself doesn't necessitate me watching it again soon,
the jokes just might make buying it a mustnot to mention the wealth of
extras that DVD is sure to have.
<|_=00=_|>
Advanced screening: Toronto (July 31, 2008) Tropic Thunder is a film
I've anticipated (from it's trailers/ Downey Jr's "Blackface"
controversy) for quite awhile, but knowing Ben Stiller's hit (Reality
Bites) or miss (Zoolander) directing filmography, I kept my
expectations relatively lukewarm. Luckily that wasn't necessary because
it's Stiller's best effort as a director to date as well as one of the
best comedies of the year.

Starting with the best fake-trailers this side of Grindhouse, TROPIC
THUNDER develops into the most uniquely wacky blend of satire/action/
and gross-out I've ever seen. At first it appears to be a straight-up
spoof on popular war films, then it becomes a film within a film, then
an attack on Hollywood and the film industry in general. Also present
are some rather shocking (and hilarious) sight gags (exploding
film-crew members, the brutal slaughter of an endangered species) that
managed to catch everyone off guard (yet not offend them).

The main reason TROPIC THUNDER works so well though is it's stellar
ensemble cast. You have the likes of Ben Stiller, Robert Downey Jr,
Jack Black, Jay Baruchel, Steve Coogan, and Nick Nolte all turning in
terrific comedic performances that they obviously had fun with. Tom
Cruise gives the extended cameo of the year as a studio executive,
while Tobey Maguire and a slew of other actors make notable
appearances. Ultimately it is Downey Jr. who steals almost every scene
as the platoon's very white, African-American squad leader.

Rude, witty, and ballsy, TROPIC THUNDER is a great time at the movies.
It's hard finding worth-while large budget comedies these days, but
DIRECTOR Ben Stiller, supported by a strong cast and a great premise,
has proved himself to be the right man for the task. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Very rarely do comedies hit the mark in terms of both smart humor and
dumb humor in the same movie, let alone the same scene. That's what
we've got with Tropic Thunder, a comedy that excels in both satirical
jokes and laugh out loud stupidity. If you're game for any of that, in
addition to quite possibly the funniest and most shocking cameos of all
time, then Tropic Thunder is the perfect movie to close the summer of
2008 with.

Ben Stiller has always been the poster boy for trying to mix these two
severely different types of humor recently, and has failed in his other
two main directing attempts (although Zoolander was funny). Here, he
more than succeeds in making Hollywood the laughingstock of the summer,
and who better than Stiller to do so, someone who has been around the
business his entire life.

Obviously, what's going to get the most laughs is our cast, which is
one of the best comedy casts assembled, in my opinion. Our supporting
performers are just as strong, if not stronger than our big three leads
(definitely stronger than Jack Black), and we are treated to some of
the funniest cameos of all time...One of Tropic Thunder's cameos, one
of the most famous and serious actors in the world, nearly steals the
movie, and is funnier than the last time he did a role like this
(Austin Powers 3). If you don't know who I'm talking about by now, just
wait until you see him. He'll have you on the floor laughing by the end
of the movie. Other cameos (including a Judd Apatow boy and a former
People's Sexiest Man Alive) are entertaining, but they have nothing on
the big guy.

Now, to the actual cast...Starting with Stiller himself. Stiller has
always been great at playing over the top asses, and that's what his
character here is. There's plenty of exaggeration, plenty of laughs,
but I felt there could have been more arrogance and more development in
his character. The film belongs to Robert Downey Jr. (why am I not
shocked by this?), who could sneak a Golden Globe nomination in if he's
lucky for his performance as super-serious star Kurt Lazarus. Downey is
absolutely hilarious, yet believable as this actor who believes acting
is larger than life, and provides for the best satire of all. Jack
Black is, if anything, forgettable and provided few laughs (though he
does deliver one of the funniest lines of the movie). Jay Baruchel and
Brandon Jackson are great in their supporting roles, and were the most
well rounded characters (especially Baruchel). Danny McBride (three out
of the last four movies I've watched have had this guy in it) of
Pineapple Express is just as great here in another hilarious role
tailor made for him. Nick Nolte is an odd presence, but an asset
nonetheless. Steve Coogan's short role is memorable.

Stiller's main point in the film was obviously to make fun of Hollywood
and his fellow actors as well, and he succeeds enormously. The fact
that mentally challenged rights groups are calling for boycotts only
proves Stiller's point: we all need to chill out, and stop taking
things so seriously (where's The Joker when you need him?). The "bad"
scene where the characters say 'retard' a few times is actually one of
the best satire scenes in the movie. The scene isn't making fun of
mentally challenged people, rather the actors that have won Oscars for
playing them. Dustin Hoffman and Peter Sellers are not spared.

Like Pineapple Express before it, Tropic Thunder suffers from a less
than stellar second act, which is used to attempt to ground the film in
reality. This is unnecessary. We know that this could never happen.
Insurance policies wouldn't even let a director think about doing what
Coogan's character does in this film. However, the film starts and
finishes very well (in fact, it starts better than any comedy of the
year). It finishes with roars of laughter, and even though it is just
absurd, it doesn't matter, because we've had a great time along the
ride. Yes, Tropic Thunder is vulgar, but nowhere near the other Apatow
brand products out these days. There's some blood and graphic violence,
but nothing too bad.
<|_=00=_|>
"Tropic Thunder is a film that understands biting satire. It sets out
to villainize the very people that made the film possible. It
understands parody and it understands good comedy and delivers
consistent laughs throughout. It starts out with a promising bang and
from there, continues to revel in its absurdity and wit. The script is
sharp and provides a great basis for the humor that spurs the film on,
however, it's truly the actors that take it to the next level. Robert
Downey Jr's performance as the lost Australian actor is perhaps one of
the most standout performances in a comedy. Not only that, but Tom
Cruise's Les may just be the engine that brings this film home. Its
both ridiculous and a furnace of hilarity. But in all truth, the
chemistry within the rest of the cast is undeniable. I would have to
caution viewers, this film may not be what you're expecting. Ben
Stiller's previous films and even his own written "Zoolander" are quite
different from the tone and the visuals of Tropic Thunder. And its not
just in the profanity or utter gore, its within the concepts behind the
film. It dares to go into areas that are politically incorrect and what
say may even find on the offensive side. Its not afraid to traverse the
areas outside of hands-off comedy. Like I said, this could be satire at
is very best, and its got the cast and the laughs to prove it. If
you're a fan of balls- to-wall, brazen comedy that isn't afraid of the
lines, this will be your cup of tea. You'll be laughing from start to
finish and reveling in the ride. It's fresh and that originality
carries it somewhere great. There is a total lack of predictability and
its shies away from the clichés and THAT is something I think a lot of
films haven't been ballsy enough to do." -another critic
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this at an advance showing last night and spent much of
the time laughing. The beginning as previously mentioned is extremely
creative with a clever cameo from Tobey Maguire and once the movie
begins it is non-stop humor from start to finish. The star of the movie
by far is Robert Downey Jr who is simply perfect but the real scene
stealer is Tom Cruise, though his screen time is limited, his scenes
are hilarious. Definitely one to repair the somewhat tarnished image of
the past few years. Stiller is his usual self but is overshadowed by
Black and Downey Jr. not surprising given the multiple roles he played
behind the scenes. Wall to wall cameos, particularly at the end (blink
and you'll miss them) and I really won't tell you which the funniest
cameo was as that may spoil this gem of a joke....provided you catch it
that is! highly recommended movie - I will definitely be heading out to
see it when it comes out for general audiences!
<|_=00=_|>
Damn, is Robert Downey Jr. on a roll Rarely (if they occur at all)
have comebacks been so bold and so memorable. When slated to star as
Tony Stark in May's Iron Man which kicked off the blockbuster season
with a bang and a slap, the public, excluding his die-hard supporters
of course, were baffled at the atypical casting choice of the Marvel
hero. For myself, I have always loved Downey Jr. from his excellent
portrayal as Charlie Chapin, to his perfectly suited role in Shane
Black's Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, he is always the best thing about a film.
Lightening struck again (or I suppose first, if you want to follow his
career chronologically) midyear with his smart portrayal as an
overprotective principal in Charlie Bartlet, so it only seems suitable
for him to cap off the summer with his best work yet.

Directed by, and starring Ben Stiller, Tropic Thunder is an epically
vast improvement over the suicide inducing effort that was Zoolander
and finds Stiller in his best comedic acting form since Meet the
Parents. Our adventure follows a group of primadonna actors who are
shooting a high budget war epic in Vietnam. As director Damien Cockburn
(Steve Coogan) sees his funds draining and his production falling apart
at the hands of the maddeningly inept cast, the inspiration for the
movie "Four Leaf" Tayback (Nick Nolte) suggests that the film would be
better shot guerrilla style using hidden cameras and some
improvisation. But, after a series of unfortunate (but hilarious)
events leave the troupe stranded, they must both save the picture which
their careers are riding on, and possibly themselves at the same time.
Adding the flavour to this endeavour are Tugg Speedman (Stiller) as a
flailing action has-been, Jack Black, who has also had a successful
year, as Jeff Portnoy, an Eddie Murphy-esquire comic, Apatow regular
Jay Baruchel as Kevin Sandusky, rapper turned actor Alpha Chino
(Brandon T. Jackson) and of course Kirk Lazarus (Downey Jr.) as the
Oscar winning method actor. We also get career high cameo and
supporting work from various familiar Hollywood faces, Mathew
McConaughey and the much buzzed appearance by Tom Cruise, who is simply
fantastic.

The most satisfying aspect of Tropic Thunder is that despite show
stealing work from Cruise and Downey Jr. everyone gets their slice of
the comedy pie. One actor is never in the spotlight too much, and
nobody hogs the funny too much. And boy is there a lot of funny; this
film is one of, if not the best satire made about Hollywood and the
jokes come high and low, subtly and bluntly, and they almost always
strike home. Controversy has been in the air surrounding both Downey
Jr.'s blackface portrayal as an African American and gags surrounding a
film Tugg Speedman had previously filmed in which he was mentally
handicapped. While it is inevitable that some will be offended, it is
important to remember that both of these jabs are not against such
groups, but against Hollywood who churns out method actors who take
their job with a block of salt, not a grain. Even complaints I have
read regarding this film I see as intentional inclusions by Stiller,
who I believe has been in the business too long to have done such
without careful thought and consideration.

The film starts without warning with a series of phony trailers
featuring the stars of the feature, and are some of the funniest
segments I have ever seen, especially that of Downey Jr.'s. Tropic
Thunder does not let up however as the ready to quote one-lines, again
mostly from Downey Jr. and Cruise, come so fast you will have to make a
list once the film has concluded. All in all, this picture is what we
needed, a biting satire/spoof that doesn't have the word Movie after
it. With a similar action/comedy hybrid formula as this year's
Pineapple Express (which both star Danny McBride), Tropic Thunder pours
on the laughs like a storm and presents a wit that is nothing less then
lightening quick.

View all my reviews at Simon Says Movie Reviews:
www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
When an all-star Vietnam film is put in the hands of a first time
British director, the results are an ego-dominated shambles that is a
month behind schedule after only five days of shooting. Director Damien
Cockburn makes a decision that the experiences of "Four Leaf" Tayback
will be best captured on film by dropping the basic cast in the jungle
and forcing them to experience as close to reality as possible while
catching it all on camera. Sadly when Cockburn is killed by a mine mere
minutes into the mission, the cast are left in the middle of a
dangerous jungle, not entirely sure of whether this is real or not.

When I went to see this film I hadn't expected it to be much more than
a basic comedy but the reality is that this is a pretty smart satire of
Hollywood and movie acting that also produces silly laughs one would
expect from a Ben Stiller film. The "black-face" issue has been
mentioned in regards the film walking a fine line between being funny
or offensive but to me the bigger tightrope act is between being funny
and being stupidly silly. Here and there it gets very close to falling
over that line (eg all of Tom Cruise's stuff) but if you are with it
then it manages to just about stay on the right side of the line. The
daft plot allows for micky-taking in regards big studio action movies,
spoilt actors, bad projects, studio executives and so on  it is never
sensible but it is mostly very funny. I think the film doesn't always
succeed though because it sort of straddles two stools and those who
want one or the other will have reservations while the smaller number
who recognise both stools will perhaps see flaws on both. To explain
that better I should probably say what I mean rather than referring to
furniture and backsides. See as a satire it is undeniably broad and
clumsy with the digs being made in clever but still quite obvious ways
and you do have plenty of laughs that are knock-about that don't sit
with those looking for smart satire. On the other hand you have those
who love the silliness of it but don't really "get" it when it is
trying to make digs even if they laugh their heads off at a character
eating blood in the misunderstanding of it being a special effect.
Somehow though it just about works by just going all out for it and
things like the racial issues, anti-Semitic stuff etc all hang together
sufficiently.

The cast are a big part of making it work. Stiller is solid throughout
and works his character as well as he makes fun of him. Downey Jr is
very impressive as the deep-method actor who produces the controversy.
Black is a necessary evil but at least his character's drug addiction
makes him of value within the satire even if his performance is still a
fat guy shouting. I liked the support from both Baruchel and Jackson,
who held their own alongside the starry cast. The rest of the cast
include solid turns from Nolte, Coogan, Maguire (great superhero movie
reference), Pollack and others are all in the shadow of a great Tom
Cruise who to me is the one we should be talking about when it comes to
controversy tightropes. He is always about an inch away from being
embarrassingly silly but yet he pulls it off.

Tropic Thunder is not a perfect film by any means. The satire and the
knock-about humour don't compliment one another that well but somehow
it all works and the majority of the risky moves are pulled off even if
it is not quite as clever as it would like to be. To some it will be
the stupidest thing they have ever seen, to others  the funniest; the
truth is somewhere in the middle and it is enjoyable for it.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at the Washington, DC screening on the 10th.

And Got Some I did. A comedy that is not Apatow's is refreshing
nowadays. A relentless hard R comedy that fuses elements of practically
every famous war film ever made. Beginning with trailers a la
Grindhouse for every major character was already a sign of a hilarious
film. While most of the humor was "funny-but-i'm-not-laughing" the same
amount of laugh out loud humor and gags was provided as well, courtesy
of mostly Stiller and Downey Jr. Who I wholeheartedly feel - stole the
show. I can't say I've ever seen any character like his in a film of
this genre, which already I feel will enter the classics. What's
refreshing about Thunder is that it's actually original in certain
aspects of the storyline; such as when they decide to shoot the film
guerilla style in the jungle only to have the director of the film....-
I'll leave this at that. A spoof of war films that isn't tireless or
idiotic like the recent Epic/Date films... which do not even deserve to
be called "spoofs". And be prepared for Cruise, who plays the most
radical role of his entire career.
