
Bottle Shock Bottom Line: "Rocky" for wine aficionados. By Stephen
Farber Jan 29, 2008

Sundance Film Festival

PARK CITY -- When a film opens with the title, "Based on a true story,"
one wonders if the filmmakers are trying to bolster a flimsy premise
with claims of authenticity. 

But "Bottle Shock," which had its world premiere at Sundance, enshrines
an irresistible story that happens to be (mainly) true. It takes place
in 1976, the year of the American Bicentennial, and in these cynical
times, it is nice to be reminded of an American victory that is
actually worth celebrating. This might not have been a momentous world
achievement, but it was a gratifying victory all the same.

The contest takes place in the world of wine, in a time when California
wines competed for the first time in a prestigious competition in
France. One of the competitors was Château Montelena, a vineyard owned
by Jim Barrett, who dropped out of the corporate rat race to pursue his
dream of cultivating grapes. Jim is just one of the engaging characters
in this tale of American hayseeds taking on French connoisseurs.
Because of the wine backdrop, some will compare the film to "Sideways,"
but the comparisons are not really fair. This is a different kind of
movie, a classic underdog tale with lots of humor and heart. With the
right handling, it could be a hit on the specialty circuit. 

The film begins by introducing an intriguing ensemble. In the Napa
Valley, Jim (Bill Pullman) is locked in constant battle with his
slacker son, Bo (Chris Pine), who works for him at the vineyard.
Another worker, Gustavo (Freddy Rodriguez), the son of a Mexican field
hand, hopes to launch his own label. Both of the men are infatuated
with Sam (Rachael Taylor), a new arrival in town. Meanwhile, in Paris,
Steven Spurrier (Alan Rickman) hopes to revive his failing wine
business by sponsoring a competition, and a friend encourages him to
visit California to add a new gimmick to the contest.

The film is very leisurely in establishing all these characters -- a
mite too leisurely. The first half would benefit from tighter editing.
Another problem is that the characters -- the tyrannical father and the
rebellious son, the snooty European wine connoisseur -- are a bit
stock, and the personal stories are not as well developed as they might
be. But the film keeps building in intensity, and the payoff sizzles.

As he showed in "Marilyn Hotchkiss Ballroom Dancing & Charm School,"
director Randall Miller has real affection for actors, and he brings
out the best in performers who haven't always had an opportunity to
shine. (Miller wrote and produced both films with his wife, Jody
Savin.) Pullman has his best role in years, and he captures the fury as
well as the passion of a man in thrall to a dream on the verge of
collapse. Pine has enormous charm, and Rodriguez confirms the promise
he showed on HBO's "Six Feet Under." Rickman also has one of his
juiciest roles in recent years, and he's able to satirize British
haughtiness without falling into caricature. Watch his reactions as he
samples California cuisine -- first a vat of Kentucky Fried Chicken and
then a glob of guacamole -- and you'll savor the mastery of a truly
subtle actor. Two beautiful young actresses -- Taylor and Eliza Dushku
as a ballsy bartender -- give equally winning performances. 

Once the film gets past the exposition, it brings off a number of
delectable scenes. A high point comes when Rickman and Pine inveigle a
bunch of airline passengers to transport California wine in their
carry-on bags. And the climactic competition, where the scrappy
American interloper has to stand up against generations of French
tradition, is as rousing as any finale you'll see this year.
Cinematographer Michael J. Ozier magnificently captures the Napa
countryside. This intelligent, affectionate, beautifully acted movie
gives crowd-pleasers a good name.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to disagree with the negative comments. Of the six or so films I
saw, this one was the best. First off, it was beautifully shot. The
scenery that was captured is going to get people to visit Napa on it's
own. Alan Rickman was as great as always, and Freddy Rodriguez was
amazing. Bill Pullman's character, as the owner of the winery, had a
terrific arc. I understand that elements of the story were
fictionalized, but I come to expect that with most "based on a true
story" films.

There were some great, touching scenes between the father (Pullman) and
son (Chris Pine) and with Rodriguez as almost a "son he never had" type
of character. Oh, and Dennis Farina nearly steals the scenes with
Rickman he's so funny - I have to say nearly, because I love Rickman.

In all it was thoroughly enjoyable, and I talked it up with several
other movie goers on the tram ride afterward, and EVERYONE I spoke to
loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
While some people might immediately try to compare this film to
Sideways, that would be a big mistake. Both films might share wine as
their subject matter but diverge dramatically from there.

Bottle Shock tells an unknown story of Californian wine beating French
wine in a surprise blind taste test (no one was more surprised than the
French).

Having the US as the Underdog, seeing the passion of the wine makers
and seeing the French being served makes this an absolutely wonderful 2
hours.

Bill Pullman was superb, Alan Rickman portrayed the quintessential
snobbish Britt, Rachael Taylor was stunning and Dennis Farina was
"Bacon Fat with a hint of Ripe Mellon!"
<|_=00=_|>
In 1976 the world of wine had mainly just one country on the map:
France.

Quietly Californians had been making pretty good wine that no one,
especially the French noticed. Until a British gentleman and oenophile,
Steven Spurrier (Alan Rickman) made a competition that changed the
world of wine forever.

Entertaining, inspiring, shot on location in the Napa Valley and
France, this is a delightful movie, with solid acting, beautiful
cinematography and all around sparkling goodness.

Although the script has one flaw, it is for the most part very solid
and the acting and directing are top notch. Bill Pullman (wine maker),
Alan Rickman, and Dennis Farina (delightful American in Paris) deliver
solid performances. Relatively new actors Chris Pine (son of wine
maker), Rachael Taylor (love interest) and especially Freddy Rodriguez
(Mexican wine maker) round up this outstanding cast.

Randall Miller, the director. has to be commended not only for creating
an endearing and lovingly original movie, but doing so in a small
budget, and even more taking his creation himself to several cities,
after no distributor stepped out, even though the movie had rave
reviews in Sundance 2008. 

The movie has opened in several theaters in North America, Toronto has
been fortunate enough to get it, and I hope a major studio changes it's
mind and takes this one world wide, but not to worry the director is
finding eager movie theaters anyway.

Enjoyable from beginning to end, a true story that deserved a movie,
got one! Go watch it.

Joseph Hurtado from Toronto
<|_=00=_|>
Admittedly I saw >Bottleshock< at 11:30 p.m., after a long week of
trudging through the snow & cold of Sundance. I usually don't go to
movies after 7 p.m., because the whole thing quickly devolves into a
$10 nap. (Picture sleep-deprived me in a soft velvet chair in a
darkened room) But I was out of time at ye olde film festival, and
really wanted to catch this one.

>Bottleshock< scored its first cool points with me for something a
(sucky) screen writing school I once attended calls "arena." This means
that the setting of the film was a spot that I really enjoyed hanging
out in for a couple of hours.

That spotactually two of themwas Napa and Paris. Though I've spent
more time in the latter than the former, I've drunk more of the
affordable fruits of Napa, never realizing that it's a relatively
recent invention. In fact, the film is based on a true story about how
Napa was nada before one day in 1976, when it proved its wines could be
as oh-la-la as those of the French.

Charming and sweet, the story is roughly the tale of two oenophiles,
who really just wanna matter. One is a California man (Bill Pullman,
who quit his gig as a law-firm partner to see if he could cork a decent
second career. The other is a fussy, small-time wine shop owner (Alan
Rickman) in Paris, dying for un peu respect. And then it's about all
these other things too: Slacker kids who turn out okay (Chris Pine);
freeloaders who offer priceless advice (Dennis Farina); the groovy
granola 70s (starring as themselves); being a Mexican immigrant
promoted up the grape chain (Freddy Rodriguez); good love (Rachael
Taylor), and bad hair weaves (that would be Pine again).

The adventure lifts us leisurely over the fruited hills of Napa, or
sends us rushing vite-vite through the streets of Paris. Ultimately
it's Rickman who tries to put himself on the map by getting out of his
dusty shop and staging an international taste-off. Everyone assumes the
multi-culti French, who gave us brie and fois gras and topless bathing,
will take the grand prize. But it turns out to be the hang-loose-dude
Californians, who gave us the salad bar, white after Labor Day and the
power lunch.

>Bottleshock< is a fun film. I hope it comes to a theater near you. Or
that you can queue it up in your Netflix, score some California wine
and some runny French cheese, and enjoy it in the comforts of your
casa. 

Pamela K. Johnson
<|_=00=_|>
I was at Sundance for the screening of Bottle Shock and can tell you
first hand, that all the screenings were sold out and the crowds loved
the movie. Even the buzz on the shuttle buses between venues was only
positive. I loved it. With an incredibly strong cast, the beauty of the
California wine country showcased in the camera work and a great
collection of 70's music to compliment the musical score, Bottle Shock
is a pleasure to watch. The movie is based on the true story of how a
Napa winery's 1973 Chardonnay won a French tasting contest that sent
the wine world into a frenzy. The story is about the Barrett Family of
Montelena and their Chardonnay. Jim Barret a father at odds with his
son Bo, is played by Bill Pullman. Steven Spurrier is played by Alan
Rickman whose performance is fantastic, as can always be expected.
Rickman's Britishness, and the Californina wine makers not being able
to tell the difference between British and French, is hilarious.
There's a love triangle involving Bo Barrett,(Chris Pine), an intern
(Rachael Taylor) and a winery employee (Freddy Rodriguez) with Eliza
Dushku as the local tavern owner/friend. All of this pulls together
beautifully for the sake of the wine. For me, the scenes of the
confused French tasters trying to tell the difference between the
French and California wines was unforgettable and in the words of a
reviewer, this movie even has "a charming aftertaste."
<|_=00=_|>
I recently got a chance to see Bottle Shock and I have to say I thought
it was great. It's really charming and interesting in a very different
way from Sideways, although because of all the beautiful Napa Valley
photography, it still reminded me of it. It also has great characters
and hilarious moments the way that film does. I highly recommend this
film. 

Based on a true story, it chronicles how California wine makers became
serious contenders in the world competition of wine-- an honor
previously assumed to be rewarded always to the French. It centers
around a town of quirky up and coming wine makers, each with their own
challenges to face. It's got a great cast, including Bill Pullman,
Chris Pine, Freddie Rodriguez, Rachel Taylor, Eliza Dushku and the
hilarious Alan Rickman. Rickman plays an English wine seller in France
who's desperate to find the best wines to sell in his store. He travels
to California to see if the rumors are true about California's wines.
His performance alone is worth seeing this. 

It's a charming, heartwarming movie that I think will do very well when
it opens 8/8. Check it out, you wont be disappointed. 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
In 1976, in the Napa Valley, the perfectionist vigneron Jim Barrett
(Bill Pullman) is the owner of the Château Montelena that is full of
debts and near bankruptcy. Jim is unsuccessfully racking his wine
trying to reach perfection. He has a problematic relationship with his
hippie son Bo (Chris Pine) and his Mexican foreman and connoisseur
Gustavo Brambila (Freddy Rodriguez) is secretly producing wine with his
father Mr. Garcia (Miguel Sandoval). Jim hires the free spirit intern
Sam Fulton (Rachael Taylor) from UC Davis to help him in the production
of wine. 

Meanwhile in Paris, the wine expert Steven Spurrier (Alan Rickman) that
owns a specialized store has few clients. His friend Maurice Cantavale
(Dennis Farina) advises him to promote his store and he decides to
organize a blind tasting competition between the French and the
American wines. He travels to Napa Valley to find the best American
wines to bring to the dispute. He has a troubled meeting with Jim that
refuses to participate in the competition. However Bo foresees the
chance of survival of his father's business and gives two bottles to
Spurrier. But soon he finds that the color of all the 500 bottles of
chardonnay have turned into brown. Is Jim Barrett's business doomed? 

"Bottle Shock" is a delightful movie based on a true story. This little
but charming movie is not available on DVD in Brazil but only on cable
("O Julgamento de Paris", meaning "The Paris Judgement"), but I bought
the American DVD following the advice of a friend of mine from
California. The story has a pleasant screenplay with entertaining
subplots that might or might not really happen, such as the triangle of
love among Sam, Gustavo and Bo, that keeps the plot never boring. The
cast has good names associated to the beautiful locations that make
this little movie worthwhile watching. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
Bottle it and take it home with you.

Savor it again and again. This is a stunningly beautiful film. It's
just about perfect. My BF didn't think he'd be interested and found
himself riveted.

Besides being a great script and incredible story, it's the total
package, I loved the soundtrack, the cinematography was amazing, the
edit, the timing, the cast, the scenery, the vistas, and OMG some of
the most wonderful romantic and captivating locations.

I don't want to spoil it, but it'd be a mistake to compare this gentle
masterpiece to Sideways. Nothing at all similar. We were captivated
from the first minute. It is an incredibly inspiring, uplifting tale of
human achievement - overcoming great odds... and manages to make some
strong statements about us, and about our culture... without becoming
syrupy or pedantic.

When you get the chance, don't turn away. Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
The ensemble dramedy is always a potentially great film, and what it
ultimately comes down to is the writing, and whether or not the film is
heartfelt enough for its audience to be moved. While Bottle Shock won't
be winning any Oscars, it certainly accomplishes the aforementioned
goals. In short, the film is very honest, heartfelt, informative, and
enjoyable. It will draw its comparisons to 'Sideways' because of the
subject matter and some of the characters (Bill Pullman in BS and Paul
Giamatti in SW have similar characters), but what sets Bottle Shock
apart is that it looks at the wine itself as a character. You care just
as much about the wine as you do about the characters.

Bottle Shock may be categorized as a comedy in some listings, but I
felt that this isn't right. It's more of a drama than comedy, but it
does have its light hearted and funny moments, most of which center
around Rickman's British man getting involved in 1970's California
culture. The film does a great job of setting up an atmosphere in which
we can get lost in, not to mention shows a part of the USA rarely seen.
The cinematography and physical landscape of the film is beautiful. It
also is smoothly edited.

The acting is always a topic of conversation in this kind of movie, and
I found the film to have a lot of subtle and powerful performances,
especially from Bill Pullman and Alan Rickman. Pullman's character is
quite the specimen. A man who's quit his job as a lawyer (and partner
of a firm) to grow grapes, essentially, and is having a hard time
watching it fail. I felt that Pullman nailed the nuances and little
emotions he needed to. He also had a good dynamic with Chris Pine. The
restrained anger was especially well done by the veteran. Alan Rickman
gives yet another interesting and intriguing performance in a part that
was probably written for him. In the hands of any other actor, the
character is bland at best, but Rickman gives Steven Spurrier a certain
depth that makes him likable despite his snobbish attitude.

Surprising me with yet another great show after his wonderful
performance in 'Bobby', Freddy Rodriguez gets a lot to chew on here.
This guy has got to be one of the most underrated and rare talents in
the business. I appreciated his Oscar worthy turn in 'Bobby', and he
probably gives the most difficult and well done performance after
Pullman. Chris Pine is acceptable, but is nothing special. Rachael
Taylor has a certain likable charm about her (she has gorgeous hair and
eyes), though the fact that her strong British accent slipped into her
obviously fake American one a few times bothered me. Dennis Farina and
Eliza Dushku are nice additions in smaller parts.

Bottle Shock certainly isn't for everyone. You won't find super huge
action sequences or psychotic bad guys here, but you'll find a
remarkable character study with a compelling enough story to keep a
viewer interested. It is a movie that doesn't require a ton of thought,
but some attention is needed. I will give our director and writer some
props for keeping the movie going smoothly. It never dragged or was
boring. If this one is playing at your local cinema, I advise you to
give it a chance.
