
In the mid-1990s, Jordan Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio) and the rest of
his associates from brokerage firm Stratton Oakmont became the very
definition of excess and debauchery, their offices a boiler room fueled
by cocaine and greed. High pressure sales tactic and less-than-legal
behind-the-scenes manipulation bred plenty of twenty-something
millionaires, and Belfort built himself an empire at the top of the
heap. His rise and fall is chronicled in The Wolf of Wall Street, based
on the memoir of the same name.

Under most circumstances, the actions of Belfort and his cronies
(including Jonah Hill in a howlingly funny turn as Belfort's business
partner) would be viewed as disgustingly abhorrent, but Martin Scorsese
frames this tale of greed with a comedic lens that allows us to laugh
at things we probably shouldn't find humorous. Whether it's a clumsy
attempt at fisticuffs between two characters overdosing on Quaaludes,
or the categorization of prostitutes using stock market terminology
("blue chip" hookers make you wear a condom and typically accept credit
cards), the film is outrageous from start to finish, and rarely falters
in its quest to entertain the audience for three hours.

Belfort manages to delude himself and his pals into thinking they can
live like this forever, but the audience knows better, and Belfort's
eventual comeuppance is hardly surprising. But the path is paved with
hilarity, especially in a scene aboard the mogul's luxury yacht, where
he surreptitiously offers a pair of FBI agents everything from booze to
girls to cold hard cash in exchange for their silence. And let's not
forget his punishment for drunkenly piloting a helicopter into the
backyard of his estate at 3am, raising the ire of his trophy wife
(Margot Robbie).

Scorsese has always managed to elicit astounding performances from his
actors, and his fifth collaboration with Leonardo DiCaprio results in
one of the most charismatic, despicable, offensive and captivating
characters to ever appear on screen. As financial bad boy Belfort,
DiCaprio swaggers from scene to scene ingesting eye-popping amounts of
narcotics, groping and fondling nearly every female within reach, and
spouting more profanity in three hours than an entire season of The
Sopranos. Belfort is the kind of person that any sane person would
detest in real life, but thanks to Scorses and DiCaprio, we can't take
our eyes off him.

-- Brent Hankins, www.nerdrep.com
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is NOT rated "R" but rather "NC-17" if not "X" rated. I got
tired and almost fell asleep a some parts. About half of the movie is
nothing more then them drinking, partying, and doing drugs. Literally.
Also a bunch of pornography. It's like a college gone crazy for half of
the movie (you see like 40+ boobies, a bunch of sex scenes, and a few
shorts glimpse of a penis AND vagina)I got so excessive everyone I went
with debated on leaving...

The humor is not bad and there is a decent amount of it throughout the
movie. (7/10) The acting, mainly Leonardo, was fantastic! (9.5/10) The
story is a bit shallow. Basically a bunch of people lying, cheating,
stealing, and running/escaping on Wall Street and making a lot of
"dirty" illegal money. Then talking talk and talking bad about other
people who are honest but make less. The movie portrays a picture that
money is the most important thing and it is what brings you happiness
very well. (2/10) Near the end it shows that being controlled by money
is very bad, but it wasn't portrayed as well as it did trying to argue
for money bringing happiness. It shows a bunch of "rich" folks who have
nothing but money thinking they're above everyone else. No health, no
relationships, no integrity, no manners, no respect, no honesty, no
time, nothing but money and the animalistic drive to get more and
destroy everything in the way.

As a movie it makes the world a depressing place. Overall the main
thing I like about the movie is Leonardo Dicaprio. Props to him for
continuing to be an awesome actor. The movie content itself was subpar.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always thought that there must be a very good reason for a movie
to last 3 hours. Wolf of wall street does last 3 hours but there no
shadow of a good reason for it. It could have lasted 1 hour and it
would have been already too long.

It is difficult to summarize all the things I didn't like but let's
try:

1- Characters development is simply not existent. There is no depth,
just one-dimension flat characters that only do drugs, sex, and money.
I am not against showing drugs or sex or money in a movie, if it helps
the plot. But in this case, it didn't. It was 2 hours of absolute
useless display of all the possible debaucheries on earth, without them
helping in building up the characters. 2- If a guy manages to build up
an empire based on a fraud, I'd like to see what happens to his victims
too, and, sorry if I am not a master of Wall street, but I'd like to
have 5 minutes of the movie spent in explaining what was this fraud
about. 3- If the guy, once again, not only builds his own empire, but
also drags other people in that, I suppose he must have some smartness,
or intelligence, or be a master manipulator.. whatever it is, it cannot
be just (once again) cocaine and prostitute. If they wanted to depict
the guys as villains, they failed miserably. 4- the only relatively
interesting part (the trial etc) is cut to 30-45 minutes max. Once
again, I supposed it could have been a good chance to show some
introspection of the characters, some development..something! But no,
once again, nothing. We only notice that now the beer is not alcoholic.
So sad. 5-Finally, DiCaprio performance: he did his job, probably, but
he was alway over the top (and not in a good sense). Too much of
everything, to the point that he fell into being ridiculous more than
believable.

Ah, one last note. Wall Street? Where is it in all the story? I
expected to see some connections to WS in fact, like what was going on
in the meantime but there is - sorry to repeat myself- basically
nothing about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorsese has done it again. His newest and most refreshing
effort he's contributed to the world of cinema in years, The Wolf of
Wall Street is a roaring thrill ride that is both absolutely hilarious
and meticulously constructed. It also presents Academy Award nominee
Leonardo DiCaprio in possibly his finest acting performance of his
career. At one-minute shy of three hours, I was both engaged and
hypnotized nearly the entire duration. A comedic epic that studies the
behavior and cultures of a time in America, feels like the uncovering
of a time capsule that was buried and dug up to give insight into our
current financial crisis. Much more than just laughs, it turns on the
dramatic elements early enough in the film to warrant considerable
reactions about the choices of our key characters. Expertly paced with
intelligent moral questions presented, The Wolf of Wall Street is one
of the best films of the year.

Telling the story of Jordan Belfort, a young Wall Street broker that
gets involved in drugs, money, and even more drugs during the 80's and
90's. In his tenure trading (and stealing), Jordan marries, divorces,
does drugs, marries again, does even more drugs, makes solid
friendships, and believe it or not, does a lot more drugs. Watching the
destruction of Jordan acted as a documentarian's insight that felt like
I was watching "Intervention" without the family that cares. The Wolf
of Wall Street is a black comedy, giving hints of drama. Natural
comparisons will fly to Oliver Stone's Wall Street which is accurate
but you can see subtle hints of films like Trading Places, Glengarry
Glen Ross, and even American Psycho. That's a testament to Scorsese's
outstanding direction and Terence Winter's masterful screenplay.
Scorsese keeps Wolf life-size, sprinkled with characters that are both
geniuses and morons, but functioning morons. They're like the frat pack
group that sat in a corner on my college campus, being loud and
obnoxious, and made terrible life choices that they still aren't aware
of until this day. Scorsese puts together an all-star cast to inhabit
these beings that includes DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Margot Robbie, Matthew
McConaughey, Jon Bernathal, and Kyle Chandler. All of which seem to be
having the time of their lives.

A lot of the credit of the film's overall success has to be awarded to
Leonardo DiCaprio. I've never seen him truly "go for it" in a way that
he exhibits as Jordan Belfort. In his breaking of the fourth wall, to
his long but completely engaging monologues about life, money, and
greed, it's the most assured and compelling work by the actor to date.
When DiCaprio unleashed his talents in the mid-90's in What's Eating
Gilbert Grape? and later stole the hearts of tween girls everywhere in
Titanic, who knew this is the role he'd been gearing up to play. This
is the role of his career and something that the Academy Awards should
look to for his long overdue recognition. It's a charming and
adventurous turn that presents a conundrum to the audience as we find
ourselves both enamored and loathing the pure essence of Jordan. A
sequence of DiCaprio crawling on the floor will probably be the scene
of the year. This is DiCaprio's crowning achievement.

As the magnetic and cheesy-minded right-hand man, Jonah Hill's
performance as Donnie Azoff is another great turn for the 30-year-old
actor. He's allowed to explore some of his comedic ticks and beats that
he may not have ever had the opportunity to explore in films like
Superbad or 21 Jump Street. In Wolf, he relies on his own instincts,
and his chemistry with DiCaprio, which has helped him before for his
Oscar-nominated work in Moneyball opposite Brad Pitt. Matthew
McConaughey, is one scene shy of winning the Oscar for Best Supporting
Actor. While his work in Dallas Buyers Club will bring him the acclaim
and recognition that he deserves, The Wolf of Wall Street is a prime
example of what he should be doing when he's not working or seeking out
the strong, independent features that are geared for awards
recognition. Stealing every frame and focus from DiCaprio in his ten
minute screen time, McConaughey utilizes all his charm and spunk as
Mark Hanna, the mentor to young Jordan as he started out.

Like any great Scorsese film, the women are in full-force and given the
opportunity to shine like the others. Cristin Millotti, a toned down
and tragic version of Marisa Tomei in My Cousin Vinny, is sensational
in her brief appearances on screen. Beautiful and sympathetic, she
offers much needed serious and dramatic elements to Jordan's outrageous
antics. In the end, a star is born in the gorgeous and vivacious Margot
Robbie as Naomi Lapaglia, Jordan's second wife. Whoever was going to be
cast as Naomi, had to be an actress of considerable talent and had the
ability to really be the sexy kitten but still warrant an emotional
reaction from the audience when called upon. Margot Robbie was the
perfect choice and she'll need to owe Scorsese royalties for years to
come with the roles she'll be offered following this. Robbie is pure
magic and is everything she's required to be. She's the more elusive,
compelling, and more thought out version of Scarlett Johansson's
character in Don Jon.

I loved every second of The Wolf of Wall Street. Terence Winter's
script is a natural and well-oiled machine that produces the words of a
demigod. You couldn't make these things up. Thelma Schoonmaker is the
utmost professional and continues to shine film after film. You won't
find another dedicated and glossed editing work this year. The other
supporting actors do sensational work especially Kyle Chandler, who has
a very well-constructed exchange on a boat with DiCaprio, has us asking
more and more, why is this guy not helming his own films on a
consistent basis yet?
<|_=00=_|>
Even though Jordan Belfort is a convicted con man, Scorsese & DiCaprio
were apparently too dense to realize that his book was yet another of
his scams. They leapt on Belfort's book like pigs on a pile of slop and
thought everyone would be just as enamored as they were with the
alleged life story of a sociopathic, sleazeball swindler. One example
of how they got conned: In real life, Belfort never warned his cohorts
that he was wearing a wire! In reality, he was a cry-baby snitch who
immediately agreed to testify against his co-conspirators, never giving
any of them a word of warning. 

It's rather amusing to watch Scorsese & DiCaprio as they try to explain
that this movie isn't a glorification of Belfort's swindling &
debauchery. C'mom, guys, 'fess up, all three hours of the movie is a
celebration of it! You wasted $100 million to make an homage to a drug-
addicted, misogynistic low-life who swindled people out of their hard-
earned money! Proud of yourselves? 

Here's the "Spoiler Alert": You are being conned if you go to this
movie. But go ahead and give your hard-earned money to this convicted
swindler and the "Hollywood sophisticates" who think his pathetically
sad life is worth being turned into a movie. Just know that Belfort is
laughing all the way to the bank, and you are his latest victim.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to find the words to explain how TRULY AWFUL this film is.
I'll try to do a list:

1) There's no context: They never show the victims of the fraud. We see
the sales effort but not the people they're selling to. How can you do
a movie about people perpetrating a fraud without showing the fraud &
its effects??? 

2) There's no character development: They all start out as disgusting
creeps and they all end up being disgusting creeps. 

3) There's not much of a plot: It's 2 and 1/2 hours of debauchery and
then 1/2 hour of getting caught. The debauchery part goes on forever
and gets boring really fast. Not to mention disturbing & disgusting.
Did Scorsese really make this movie just to show all this debauchery?
What's the point of showing 2 and 1/2 hours of it? We get the point
that they are gross lunatics pretty fast. Why keep going with seemingly
endless variations of it? There is no point to it. 

So, when all is said & done, this is basically a movie about
debauchery. It should have been called "Satyrs of Long Island" instead
of "Wolves of Wall Street" because these turkeys operated from LI and
there's practically nothing in the movie about actual Wall Street
firms.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Wolf of Wall Street" paints a very decadent picture of the
financial sector and its corrupted denizens, perverted by money and
greed. A multitude of insatiable degenerates are depicted participating
in an unending array of grand parties, laced with copious drugs,
alcohol, and prostitutes, splashed across the screen in unabashed
opulence. And these are the good guys. Similar to the way director
Martin Scorsese's "Goodfellas" glorifies the lifestyle of mafia
gangsters, "The Wolf of Wall Street" attempts to create an enticement
to the immoral habits of stockbrokers wallowing in hedonism.

But in this world of white-collar crime, where the victims are faceless
and there are no real villains, no threat of death or physical harm
exists. Conflict and, most surprisingly, consequences, are also absent.
There isn't even any character progression. Everyone starts as a
money-grubbing scoundrel and ends the same way, despite encountering
several opportunities to learn from their unscrupulous practices. Even
if that's more magnetic, the evident drought of suspense or redemption
leaves the audience with 180 minutes of darkly comedic events featuring
nothing but sex and substance abuse. It's never unstimulating, but it's
also not much of a story.

Aspiring to be a successful stockbroker, fiercely ambitious Jordan
Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio) interns at an investment firm and, under
the guidance of zealous salesman Mark Hanna (Matthew McConaughey),
learns the tactics of persuasion. When the "Black Monday" stock market
crash of 1987 finds Belfort unemployed, he discovers the highly
profitable world of penny stocks (with their unregulated attributes)
and quickly begins planning the birth of his own empire. Recruiting
several of his friends, including drug dealers and his neighbor Donnie
Azoff (Jonah Hill), Jordan begins training them in the art of selling 
and soon opens brokerage firm Stratton Oakmont. It's not long before
Belfort and his cohorts have amassed excessive monetary assets and
begin reveling in the debauchery unlimited funds affords them. But as
Stratton Oakmont rises in prominence, it catches the eye of FBI Agent
Patrick Denham (Kyle Chandler), who launches an investigation into the
shady practices of the fiscal giant.

In the lavish, exploitive, overindulgent world of stock market
racketeering, Scorsese clearly points out the entertainment value of
stimulants, hookers, and unconscionable partying. Sobriety is boring,
existence in the real world is unbearable, bacchanalian celebrations
must replace simple socializing, workplace corruption results in a slap
on the wrist, and money can fix everything except the torturous
constraints of marriage. "I want you to deal with your problems by
becoming rich," commands Jordan, proceeding to narratively glorify
superficiality, materialism, substance abuse, sex addiction, and every
other pleasurable vice, with ferocious enthusiasm. He frequently speaks
straight to the camera, braggingly unveiling his obscene wealth and
expenditures (at one point he's ruffled over not making at least $1
million per day). With a three hour running time, "The Wolf of Wall
Street" is 90% eye-popping revelry and 10% routine storytelling.

The unholy exorbitance of nudity, cursing, and snorting cocaine
correlates directly to the plentiful comedic scenes. Each one carries
on too long, brimming with visual details that make the film earnestly
earn its hard R rating. But its excessiveness is also repetitive,
dragging out the festivities with titillating particulars over and over
again. The entire film is conducted with a snappy, zippy, lighthearted
tone (clashing with the obvious crime, again like "Goodfellas"),
revealing masturbatory elaboration to be jovial, experiencing
mind-altering highs to be frolicsome, officious salesmanship to be a
thrilling avenue for scamming faceless fools, and brushing with the FBI
and SEC (over IPO dishonesty) to be adventurous. Ludicrous exchanges
are delivered straight-faced, with numerous conversations carrying on
to laugh-out-loud success.

But the criminal activities are victimless and the justice isn't
applied on screen to anyone outside of the antihero lead, making every
role a larger-than-life caricature (Jonah Hill is occasionally
unrecognizable), the outcome more of a joke than repercussion, and the
allure of "get rich quick" schemes not the least bit faded. Meanwhile,
the idea of illegal undertakings appearing maddeningly gratifying as
long as authorities are eluded is wantonly ennobled  perhaps made more
appealing than ever before on film. If Scarface learned something from
his rise and fall, Belfort most certainly did not.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
The last few Scorsese pics left me a little disappointed. I had begun
to think Marty had become a 'gun for hire' and that his brilliance may
have been spent (his earlier works were some of the best movies ever
made). I attended a screening of The Wolf of Wall Street this evening,
and was expecting to be unimpressed. I am happy to say I was completely
blown away. This pic is Marty at his best. I laughed, I cringed, I
related (with fond memories as well as a bit of guilt) and I TOTALLY
believed every unbelievable moment. A good book, a great screenplay and
a delightful cast were formed and molded into what I believe should get
Scorsese a best director Oscar, and likely a Best Picture Award for the
movie. Leo DiCaprio has grown into a versatile actor and his creation
of this super hero dirtbag's roller coaster ride in this crazy (true)
story is really honest and delightfully entertaining. Jonah Hill pulled
out all the stops too and this is definitely his best work. Thank you
Mr. Scorsese for delivering the goods so brilliantly!
<|_=00=_|>
This film arrived in the UK with awards and Oscar nominations all
around it, adding an expectation which it really didn't need adding
since even without any of that it is ultimately a Scorsese film with a
big name cast. It also arrives with some other stuff because the film
has been criticized for near glamorization of the excesses that Belfort
was able to experience with his ill-gotten funds and, to be honest, it
is an impression that isn't helped when you consider that this film was
put forward to the Golden Globes in the Musical/Comedy section. Now I
am sure that was a political move by the studio, but it does say
something about the film because indeed for most of it we have stuff so
unbelievable and so excessive that it is hard not to laugh at it. It is
hard not to enjoy it.

And this is a problem, because the first 2 hours and a bit of this film
is really engaging and enchanting in how much of a rush it gives you,
how enticing it is and just how much vibrant energy it all has. The
viewer is swept along and I guess to a point this is the film doing its
job well because not only are we being told a story but we are first
hand seeing how easy it is to get caught up in the grab for success,
for money, for status. In this regard the film works really well
because throughout the film I really was glad to be part of it and
wanted it for myself; I don't think the film goes out of its way to
glamorize this excess and this life, but for sure it doesn't do much to
balance it  and this really is my problem with the film.

The structure, subjects and delivery of this film is so inherently
similar to Goodfellas that it is hard not to mention it. If you
remember the opening of Goodfellas you'll remember that it opens with a
memorably violent scene where an near-dead man in the back of a car is
stabbed by Hill and his colleagues in a scene that is oppressive and
violent but yet ends with the narration telling us "as far back as I
can remember I wanted to be a gangster" and snaps to credits under a
big track from Tony Bennett. This scene is important because it works
as a microcosm of the whole film  the appeal but also the cost, all in
one place. Wolf of Wall Street never has any of that and it hurts it. I
suspect the message of the film is that our financial systems are
screwed and that ultimately the rich will never be in the same world as
the average person, because this is what I took from the rather
sobering final scenes. However if this is the point it is trying to
make then it really hurts itself with the rest of the film seeming to
say "so why not get on board". I know this is not the case but the lack
of a "point" or an agenda it the film means that it naturally fills it
with its own, which is a weird feeling.

But then again  I guess it is a comedy. So the infamous Quaalude scene
is not horrific but rather hilarious, the scenes of excess and of
criminality are not equally appealing and repulsive  they are almost
totally appealing, we hardly get the other side or get to see a victim
here, and a few seconds on the subway with the FBI agent really does
nothing but yet again make the suggestion that "it's all broken so why
not at least get rich yourself". Getting away from this, it is a well
made film. Scorsese makes this award season's second film to owe a
massive debt to Goodfellas (American Hustle being the other) and he
directs the film with energy; music is used well as one would expect
and the editing makes the film pop. DiCaprio is great in the lead  OK
he doesn't find the heart of the character, but the film doesn't ask
him to. Instead he is charismatic and energetic, drawing the viewer in
and giving the film its energy. The supporting cast is deep with names
and familiar faces and it is a statement about how well the film holds
the viewer, because it isn't distracting no matter how many famous
faces or supporting character from TV appear (although I did notice
that this and American Hustle had lots of faces from HBO's Boardwalk
Empire). Jonah Hill is over the top in a way that works, although I am
surprised to see him getting an Oscar nomination for it in such a
crowded year.

Wolf of Wall Street has had a lot of praise and this will continue as
the Oscars approach and are awarded. Personally I enjoyed the film as a
funny true story delivered with energy and excess but in many ways it
is not Goodfellas and the most important of these is that the film
lacks a moral core to itself, to its characters and to its message. I
don't mind the "it's all screwed so who cares" message that it
ultimately seems to give, but I didn't feel comfortable with how wide a
smile it had on its face while it was delivering it.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Wolf of Wall Street" is infectiously entertaining. It is probably
the funniest movie I have seen all year with witty dialogue, over the
top characters, and filled with energy that bleeds off the screen.
Between all the fun however,  there is also a story about addiction and
how it can cause a downward spiral in your life whether it be drugs,
money, or power.

Acclaimed director Martin Scorsese does a wonderful job keeping this
movie at a high at all times. Never once does this movie lose it's
energy or sense of humor much like the drug induced characters. There
are a lot of quick cuts and edits to keep the movie feeling as If you
are on drugs as well as playing high energy music in some of the more
serious situations.

The cast brings their "A" game. The stand out is obviously Leonardo
DiCaprio, who pretty much owns and excels any scene he is in. This film
really showcases his diverse range.

Overall "The Wolf of Wall Street" is a full on adrenaline ride that
never loses momentum. It's directed with a lot of flair and energy and
has an incredibly well written script that gives it depth and a ton of
laughs. The cast is fantastic and DiCaprio gives his best and most fun
filled performance to date. I really enjoyed this movie and think it's
the funniest movie of the year 4.5/5
