
When Lieksa! had it's release here in Finland, I'm ashamed to admit
that I let the mostly lukewarm reviews get to me and I passed this
wonderful film. Thank heavens I was able to catch it on TV. I can
understand that some people might not be enthusiastic about a film,
which is like a fairy tale for grown ups. 

The cinematography is incredibly beautiful and it gives the film an
other-worldly feeling. The cast is quite good, especially Sanna-Kaisa
Palo's Martta and I love the music, especially the song "While Your
Lips Are Still Red" by Nightwish.

**** HUGE SPOILERS AHEAD*** **** HUGE SPOILERS AHEAD***

Lieksa! tells a story of a man, who on a wintery night stops his car
when he sees a crashed wan on the side of a road. The man is drunk and
when he realizes that the crash site was a setup he has very little
time to react before his head makes a contact with a shovel. The
Koppelo family boys were trying to steal the man's car, but when they
saw cops approaching, they panic and enter the shovel. The old-boys
take the man with them to their camp, where they realize that the man
has lost, not only his memory, but also his ability to speak. They
decide to keep him and re-name him as Kasper.

The Koppelo family is like a band of gypsies, traveling the road in old
banged-up trailers. The head of the family is Martta, a strong willed
woman, who has two beautiful daughters and two slow minded sons. There
also few other family members in the group. The family's great
grandmother was a a lover of the former Russian emperor, Nicolai the II
and the Koppelo family is truly proud of their royal blood, even though
they are living from hand to mouth. They are, like their forefathers
before them, great tailors and the family is heading for a town called
Lieksa, dreaming for the possibility to set up a tailor shop when they
get there. 

Kasper catches the eye of Lara, the beautiful younger daughter of
Martha and Kasper starts to develop feelings for her. Things are
complicated by the fact, that Kasper can't utter a word and when the
dangerous, handsome Laszlo, the black sheep of the family shows up, he
starts to romance Lara, who is starting to grow weary with Kasper's
silence. Laszlo easily charms the Koppelo boys, but Martta is
suspicious. When Laszlo is caught red-handed stealing the family money,
he is driven out of camp and he sells the family to a bunch of thugs.
Kasper overhears the plan but is caught by Laszlo and beaten up badly.

Laszol tells the family to leave all their possessions behind and leave
or they will be killed. The family decides to fight and with the help
(mostly) of the women, they overthrow the thugs. Laszlo's legendary
father, who left the family years ago arrives and defeats and disowns
Laszlo. Kasper moves in with Lara.

When the caravan reaches the Lieksa city border, the Koppelo boys are
sent to check the town. When they come back few days later, they look
shocked. They tell the family that they had experienced more during
those few days spent in Lieksa, than they had during their whole life
and the city-life was not for them or for the family. (The joke is,
that Lieksa is one of the smallest cities in Finland). That evening,
when the family is sitting around a camp fire Kasper speaks for the
first time. One of the boys notes this, while the other one observes
that Kasper is only thinking out loud and it really sounds like that.
Kasper has narrated the story during the film and his speech sounds
just like a narration. He observes that the destination is not
important. It is the journey that counts and he says that maybe the
Koppelo family is destined to journey on. So they keep on traveling, in
to the night.
<|_=00=_|>
Before i watched this film i read different reviews about this film and
with some sites rating it around 5 out of 10 i was a bit put off it,
but after i watched the music video from the film i decided to give it
a go. But i am glad i have watched the film, the shots are beautiful
and well made edit. The storyline is a bit confusing but as i read the
story before i watched it i felt like i knew what was going on. The
only main down side for me was that it was too short and it felt like
they squashed the movie down to 1 hour and 30 minutes, they could
easily of added more flow to the movie and made it near the 2 hours and
30 minutes. Overall i would recommend this movie to my friends to watch
even though it is very hard to get your hands on a English copy.
<|_=00=_|>
Beginning and the base of the story was interesting, and going on fine.
Then when Laszlo (Frantzen) comes back to family, the story starts to
change more to some gangster stuff... and also Laszlo's character is
widely annoying and idiotic, and I didn't realize why he is speaking
such a stupid way, and not sounding natural at all. Well... gangsters
comes even more, little fighting, good against the evil. Kind of basic
story. Not to much humor inside as I was expecting. Some ultra cheesy
singing parts and music in this film made want to skip the end totally;
just too much sentimental crap. I didn't even care anymore how it will
end, what will happen. It's easy to imagine anyway. Of course movie was
not full of bad stuff. Some acting and film shooting is very well made,
and this movie actually had some nice idea. Only how it became after
all wasn't a success.
<|_=00=_|>
When Lieksa! first premiered in Finland I almost went to the theater to
watch it, but after hearing a lot of comments about how the movie had
some nice camera angles and such, but that it was really weird and
didn't have a plot, I didn't go. But when I heard the theme song "While
your lips are still red" I started to want to see the film. Then after
a little while I heard that the movie was wonderful from one person and
I bought the film. I watched and loved it. The film was visually
beautiful and had a simple meaning that many people don't seem to
understand. The Koppelo family believe that their grandmother was the
lover of the last tsar of Russia. They've settled to live in Pyhäselkä,
but in the beginning of the movie they are deported and they have to
find a new place to live in. They leave towards Lieksa, the town of
dreams. In the mean time a drunken man is driving and his car crashes
with the Koppelos' van. The drunken man loses his memory and the
Koppelo family take him with them. They name the man Kasper. Kasper
falls in love with Lara, the daughter of the leader of the group.
Kasper doesn't say anything during the movie, until in the last few
minutes. The Koppelo family encounter a huge problem, Lazslo, a member
of the group that left them years ago returns and wants Lara to be his
bride. Lara fells in love with him, because her relationship with
Kasper isn't going anywhere. Lazslo later on turns out to be a traitor
once again and wants to destroy the whole group. The Koppelo family
does get rid of Lazslo and his helpers in the end. The Koppelos head
out to Lieksa before the winter. When they arrive at Lieksa, two of
their group visit Lieksa while the others wait outside the town. After
they return, they announce that Lieksa is too great for them. There was
more action in one day at Lieksa than in their whole lives before.
(Lieksa is actually one of the smallest and most insignificant towns in
Finland)

So the point in my opinion is that the thing that you try so very much
to get, might not be that great after all. There were some faults, like
when men dressed as women and you were supposed to laugh and for some
the movie might be too unclear to follow. But on the whole, Lieksa!
left me a great fairy tale-like feeling and I really enjoyed watching
it. Markku Pölönen did a great job in my opinion and would deserve a
lot more credit for the film than he did. I recommend Lieksa! to anyone
who enjoys realism and fairy tales mixed in a love story

9/10 (Sorry if I made spelling mistakes, I'm Finnish)
<|_=00=_|>
Loved the whole thing. The story of a young man that gets hit in the
head and starts his life anew, like a baby - learning to walk, to talk,
to feel, and the last but not the least, to understand - is simple but
appealing.

And although the plot and settings are strictly fairy-tale and timeless
(like, what the people are wearing, their caravans, some of the
speeches, and the guy named Laszlo from head to toe) you still want to
believe what is happening on the screen. 

Of course one can enjoy watching more once he knows the background of
the Koppelo family's story and have an idea of what Lieksa, the movie's
Neverland or Oz, whatever, really is like. Then it comes clear that the
caravan is actually going nowhere. Another wasted dream.

10 points to the team who made the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I get a Finnish copy of this movie with Italian and English subtitle.

it's a shame that this movie didn't get more attention because : - the
picture and the music are great - the plot is very non-typical - there
is no boring sex or conventional violence - it's a mix of irony and
tales 

in a nutshell this movie is a little bit like a johnny Depp or
Kusturica's movies.

I should admit that this movie have some lack (Maybe because of its low
budget) some better actors should have been hired, some characters
should have been better elaborated and some part of the scenario also.
nevertheless it didn't prevent me to dream
