
Revolutionary Road is a drama centered around an unhappy married couple
living in the 1950's suburbs. They struggle dealing with their lives,
how things have turned out, and what to do next. April (Kate Winslet)
is a stay at home mother and wife, who seems to want more than that.
She had dreams of becoming an actress but it never seemed to work out.
She's angry, depressed and really cold at times. Frank (Leonardo
DiCaprio) works in the city, is unhappy with his job and bored with his
life. He's just one of those guys that works because he has to. He
needs to support his family, even if he hates doing it. Inner demons
and problems of his own trouble him as he tries to live out his life.
These character have problems and issues just like everyone else.
Sometimes they may come off as selfish, cold, or confusing to us.
Things haven't worked out, and they're upset. That's whats so
interesting about this, you may have friends or neighbors in
relationships like this, that would never think of. Everything seems
great on the outside, but behind closed doors, it's a different story.
We all have had things not go our way from time to time, but it's up to
us to make the best from it and move on. April and Frank have a harder
time with this. Fair, or not, they are unhappy. You may not necessarily
relate to the characters yourself, but you can respect that their are
people like this all the time, in everyday life still, that have
problems they go through. They may not be as drastic as these problems,
but everyone has something not right with them. There are many themes
in this film, mainly being love, marriage, relationships, and life.

DiCaprio and Winslet give powerhouse performances. They really have a
great chemistry together and seem to build off each other.
Relationships are complicated and the highs and the lows are really
shown extensively. All around great and believable performances with a
small role by Michael Shannon, who shines as the crazy guy who tells it
how it is. This is a film that will probably be best known for it's
acting performances.

The film is directed by Sam Mendes, the director of American Beauty.
The film, itself is visually and artistically amazing. The lighting,
colors, sets, scenes, costumes, everything is extremely well done. It's
beautiful. I loved the cinematography. 

I can definitely can understand the hate, or dislike for this film. Due
to it's depressing subject matter, it's not really a film you can sit
down and just flat out enjoy or be entertained that much from. It's not
a film for everyone. If you are just looking to be entertained and have
a good time seeing a film, I don't think I would recommend this. It's
shows the stark brutal reality of an unhappy suburban couple. If your
looking for a film that more than that, one that is filled with
terrific performances, great cinematography and direction, then you
should check this out sometime. It's a really well made film all
around, but be warned, it may be a hard one to enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Love, it's a curious thing. When it's fresh it is new, it is exciting
and you wake up every morning just aching to spend another day with the
person you love. Then you get married, have kids perhaps and things
change. You fight. You fight over NOTHING. You grow to loathe the
person you used to love to wake up next to. The world closes in on you
and things don't seem the same anymore. You daydream about what life
used to be like, how much love you used to be in and ask yourself -
what happened??? Frank and April Wheeler meet and fall in love at a
party. They talk about how their lives are going to be extraordinary
and they are going to be different. They are going to live in Paris.
They are never going to be "those people" in the suburbs. That isn't
what life has in store for them. However life happens, April gets
pregnant and they have to settle for a life more ordinary than they had
planned for with the promise that someday, they will return to their
dreams and complete them.

The Wheeler's dreams do not ever become reality and as the bleak
expanse of life stretches out ahead of April she decides to reach out
for her personal brass ring and convince Frank that they are better
than their home on Revolutionary Road and Frank's job with his father's
company and are meant for the greatness that they once talked about
having in Paris. April quickly begins to hope again that not only will
her life change to what it should have been but that her and Frank will
fall back in love again. Frank falls in love with the idea and agrees
to go, but has reservations about leaving the job he hates but that
gives him a purpose in life. The plans are only a temporary band-aid as
their glass house of dreams tumble around them and become a shattered
illusion of what it used to be.

This movie is not one that you will send your entire family to see - or
even your good friends. It isn't one that everyone will get or even
WANT to get. However, this movie will tear out the heart of the people
that have been in a relationship that has gone sour and were powerless
to stop it. You try everything to stop the inevitable train wreck you
see coming but yet, it still ends in a fiery crash and you stand and
wonder how your life could end up this way. That's Frank and April and
you will come to love and hate them by the end of this movie.

The acting in this movie is beyond amazing because it's simple and not
overdone by the lead actors. Many things are not ever said - nor needed
to be said - and were played with a flick of emotion across the face. I
watched this movie expecting Kate to be the one to blow me away as
usual and was shocked when it was Leo that knocked my socks off. I felt
little sympathy for Frank in the novel but in the movie he plays him so
well you can't help but feel sorry for him. I must mention that the
supporting roles in this movie are nothing to sneeze at as well.

If you are looking for a wholesome family movie that will melt your
heart, this isn't it. However, if you are willing to deal with a bit of
stark reality - this is the movie for you. It rocked me harder than
American Beauty ever did.
<|_=00=_|>
Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio were the incentive of my going to
see this film, and I could not be more convinced of their talent than I
am after the two-hour brilliance. 

This film is reality in its purest, yet magnificently artistic form Â–
the anger that is portrayed repetitively and in various occasions
reminded me of the wrath I myself occasionally experience, from the
overture of an argument to its climax; the screaming, the furious need
to verbally and physically harm, punch, kick, no matter how much
affection is felt towards the recipient. Even during the scenes that
are meant to be tranquil, there is anxiety and tension hidden in their
smiles, a sort of counterfeit politeness that should never be present
in a happy relationship. 

It is all a depiction of two genuine lives that have the potential of
existing in complete harmony, yet cannot because of the stereotypical
environment and situation they find themselves in. They both crave
change, an alteration in their monotonous state of being, but because
of the lengthy period of time that they have spent in such a
circumstance, their mentality is differently modified. April (Kate
Winslet) finds unreserved determination to leave to Paris and although
her character seems at times erratic, we gradually come to understand
that she is in fact the stronger personality of the two; she truly
finds change favorable, whereas Frank (Leonardo DiCaprio) seems to find
the idea of change more flattering than change itself.

Each choice a person makes can change a life, and that life is not
always theirs. This film shows us just how wrong something right can
be, as well as how right something wrong can be.
<|_=00=_|>
So a few weeks ago, my sister and I decided to watch a movie and wanted
to see Titanic again, so of course we get to the sad ending where Jack
dies, but Rose lived on to have an incredible life, I asked my sister
"I wonder what would've happened if Jack lived? Would he and Rose
really have lasted like they thought they would have?", she giggled and
asked if I saw Revolutionary Road, I said no and she said to see this
movie and my question would be answered. So here's something I never
thought I would say, especially in 1997, thank God Jack died! OK, sorry
for the lousy introduction, I always like to say how I saw the movie.
But I didn't just want to see Revolutionary Road because of the reunion
between the extremely talented Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, but
also one of my favorite directors of all time Sam Mendes(American
Beauty) who took on this project in the new telling of what the
American Dream is and maybe it's not always what we had expected it to
be.

Frank and April Wheeler moved to Revolutionary Road in one of New York
City's wealthy Connecticut suburbs, and have a daughter and a son in
hopes of living the American dream. But April is dissatisfied with her
life as a suburban housewife, and Frank despises his marketing job at
Knox Business Machines, where his father worked for twenty years in a
similar position. They feel that they are unique and special, but
trapped in the conformity of life in the suburbs, where they moved to
raise their children. On Frank's birthday April surprises him with a
birthday cake and a proposal that they move to Paris, with April
working as a secretary to support the family so that Frank can discover
what he truly wants to do in life. Frank is reluctant at first but
ultimately embraces the idea, and the renewed optimism breathes fresh
life into their relationship. Meanwhile, April becomes pregnant again,
she wants an abortion and has bought a device she has heard is safe if
used in the first twelve weeks. Frank disapproves. Later, Frank is
offered a promotion and raise at work. Eventually he tells April that
for the sake of the unborn baby he has decided not to go to Paris.
Extremely unhappy, April starts to go crazy and screams her hatred for
Frank as he still tries to continue to make the "perfect and
comfortable" life for her.

This movie was really amazing, it's one of the most over looked Oscar
wise from 2008, both Kate and Leonardo pull in heart wrenching
performances. The thing about their characters is that I saw so much of
my parents in them, they had all these amazing dreams together, were so
in love, but then discover that life jumps in the front seat to what
they really wanted to do. Kate's character, April, is receiving a lot
of hate, but honestly I couldn't hate her, how could you? Yes, she said
some awful things, but when it came down to it, she just wanted the man
she fell in love with back again, she wanted to feel alive. The problem
was both her and Frank were trying to run away from their problems,
then Frank got comfortable; honestly, who knows what would have fixed
their problems? But I do recommend Revolutionary Road, I really thought
it's a small masterpiece and will get more recognition in the future I
hope.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Revolutionary Road is not a very joyful film, or is it easy to watch.
Instead of being simply entertaining, it achieves what not many films
these days do. It wants to be a learning lesson.

This film is superbly crafted, in both the writing and the amazing
direction by Sam Mendes. After his great film 'American Beauty', he
comes back with strong will to do this project. His direction is the
best of the year for sure. It feels so professional, so alive. The
writing, both of the characters, Frank and April Wheeler, I feel they
are so open and 3-dimensional characters, but the screenplay wants to
let us inside their lives, and it does so with great passion. Leonardo
Dicaprio plays Frank with such intensity, with such force. Dicaprio
gives his best performance here without a doubt, since I don't really
think he has ever done something like this before. Then there is Kate
Winslet. My favorite actress, and certainly one of the most talented
out there. Winslet has surprised me before in a lot of movies, but
here, she surprises me in a whole other way. Her silent, unlikeable,
and sometimes human and cold portrayal of April Wheeler is one of the
best performances of the decade. She gives the best female performance
of the year, and I truly hope she finally wins the Oscar she deserves.

The film itself is so beautiful, so alive, yet at the same time, so
dark to what the film is about. The cinematography is amazing, as well
as the costumes and the whole set designs. The music, the original
score, was so unsettling, perfectly balanced to what each scene
brought.

Revolutionary Road is not a film for everyone. I can definitely see
some critics will hate it, but it should certainly be respected, for
its ambition, for the things it accomplishes and every thing it
portrays. I think this is Mendes' masterpiece. I have not seen a better
made film this year.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advance screening of Revolutionary Road in Beverly Hills, CA
this evening (December 14th). A Q&A session followed the screening with
Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate Winslet, Kathy Bates, Michael Shannon, Kathryn
Hahn, and screenwriter Justin Haythe. Photos from the Q&A are attached
to this report.

Revolutionary Road is a story that you won't be able to shake easily.
The film will stick in your head and leave you to contemplate what has
just happened on the screen before you. Richard Yates gives us the
story of Frank and April Wheeler, the seemingly perfect suburbia
couple. We soon find out their marriage is teetering on the edge of a
collapse as they are overwhelmed by the fact that they have each made
the wrong choices in their lives.

Once again Kate Winselt and Leonardo DiCaprio come together with great
chemistry, pulling the best out of each other. This is a heavy film
with emotionally complex characters, I'm not sure I could think of any
two actors that could pull off the roles of Frank and April Wheeler
like Leonardo and Kate did.

"Truth is usually in singular - Lies always come in plural." I'm not
sure who said that, but it is a notion that sums up this film.

Michael Shannon shinned in his role as the clinically insane son of
Kathy Bates character; John Givings. Bates and Shannon both deliver
humorous scenes to this heavy storyline, although there are times when
you see the sadness and desperation in their characters as well.
Michael Shannon's character, John Givings, is the truth in this film.
Although clinically insane, he can see through everyone's lies and does
the unthinkable; he forces everyone face their own truth.

I guarantee you will not be singing "My Heart Will Go On" after seeing
this film. But you won't be disappointed with this little film gem.
<|_=00=_|>
A show-stopping Leonardo DiCaprio becomes Frank Wheeler, with
remarkable power and an insight we only get from the greatest kind of
actors. Allowing the audience to become fully immersed in his psyche,
letting us feel everything with him. Living his pain, resentment, and
the smÃ¶rgÃ¥sbord of emotions in between. It is a highly accomplished
piece of acting from the lead actor that I cannot imagine being ignored
come this award season. Frank is a flawed man that many people will be
able to see aspects of themselves in. Not being satisfied with
marriage, family, work. Feeling we are meant or destined for something
greater, yet paradoxically feeling the doubt and insecurity in
ourselves to really go after it. He's depressed, has a past he can't
seem to let go of, he's arrogant, he's a liar, he's manipulative and in
many ways immature. Yet we know him. He's our father growing up, he's a
brother, friend or possibly even you. He makes mistakes and is almost
embarrassingly human. What I found ultimately tragic about him was not
the way in which he lied to others but the way in which he lied to
himself. Leo DiCaprio uses his expressive face to brilliant effect as
Frank. He was terrific in "Aviator" , "Blood Diamond", "This Boy's
Life" and others and has rightfully earned his place as one of the
finest actors of his generation. Having said that, this is a whole new
layer to DiCaprio that none of us have seen before. He brings a new,
mature type of authentic subtlety to his craft. He doesn't resort to
any big physical transformation. It's all internal. This is a new
height for him, and easily the greatest acting of his career. A
performance of great emotional intensity and depth that I can say
without hesitation, will be remembered for generations to come.

Kate Winslet plays April Wheeler with a sharp fervor. She is angry,
depressed and intensely believes she and Frank are destined for
something greater than a life of conformity in the burbs. She is a
tragic character in that she is basically a closed book, she shuns the
love that people try to give her, she is a free spirit and quite the
handful. She comes up with an idea to break free of the conformity she
shares with her husband in an attempt to revive their marriage and at
first it seems to work - the passion for life and each other reignited.
But after an unexpected event and other factors, will the dream plan go
through?

The chemistry between Winslet and DiCaprio in "Revolutionary Road"
reminded me in many ways of the chemistry between Liz Taylor and
Richard Burton in the 1966 film "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". They
create an intensity in their arguments that is electric and palpable.
You cannot take your eyes off them, they glue you to the screen and
stick it to each other as sharply as the couple from "Virginia Woolf"
were able to. Frank and April's story is grounded in a greater, more
painful reality, however. DiCaprio's raging sobs are chilling.

The film is very dark. And the honesty practically guts you in some
cases, so I don't think everyone will love it. Watching it was
emotionally draining. Sam Mendes certainly did his job well here. It's
his greatest film since "American Beauty".
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this at an advanced screener in Leicester Square last
night. Kate Winslett chatted about the film on stage afterward. I went
as one of those people who'd read the book and consider that source
material to be amongst the best literature I'd ever read. I was
wondering if and how the film could match up. My prior concerns were
about how accurate the film would be. Well, there's nothing to worry
about there. Mendes has created a near carbon copy of the book, the
locations, characters and scenes are all exactly as I 'saw' them on the
page. Nothing (as far as I could tell) is portrayed out of order, no
extra characters are introduced, and no primary characters are dropped
or altered. The acting is 100% perfect. The mies-en-scene is perfect.
Absolutely nothing could or should have been done differently. So why
not 10/10? The problem lies in the fact that Yates' novel is a literary
one, much of the essence of the experience of the story is realized by
Yates with just the right turn of phrase or choice of word. How does a
director set about depicting or capturing this visually? I don't think
he really can, he needs to use cinematic tricks and devices to inject
resonance, the same resonance Yates achieves with that turn of phrase.
But in being so (probably rightly) concerned about being true to the
source material, the film somehow comes up a little flat as a film
going experience, a sort of American Beauty without the crucial
stylistic bells and whistles. Kate Winslett said afterward that
(interestingly) it was she who had brought the book and the project to
her husband, not vice versa and that it took some consideration for Sam
Mendes to convince himself that he hadn't already told this story
before, and by the final credits, I too was thinking just that, it felt
like I'd watched a prequel to American Beauty, but without the pizazz
and the rapture and the delight. So, the book, 10/10, the film, 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this movie. All I can say is: Wow! In this Richard Yates story
portrayed through the lens of Mr. Mendes' camera, we enter the
relationship of Frank and April Wheeler; a young married couple
depicted brilliantly by DiCaprio and Winslet, who seem to be on the
verge of marital and emotional collapse as their growing desperation
and dissatisfaction with their town and their relationship leads them
to think of an escape. There are some compelling, memorable,
emotionally gripping scenes between DiCaprio and Winslet, which should
interest acting students who wish to know what it means to be "in the
moment". Additionally, there is the immensely talented Kathy Bates,
whose humorous scenes balance out the heavily dramatic ones nicely and
which are sure to leave a warm spot on your heart. Also adding humor to
the movie is Michael Shannon as Bates' psychologically unstable son,
who steals just about every scene he's in. There are moments where the
dialogue can seem to feel clichÃ©, but with everything else working so
well, those moments can be forgiven. This is a film not to be missed.
I've become a greater admirer of DiCaprio's acting ability as a result
of this film, Winslet never disappoints, and Mendes adds another superb
credit to his resume with this amazing film. December 26th. Save the
date!!!
<|_=00=_|>
"I cannot walk through the suburbs in the solitude of the night without
thinking that the night pleases us because it suppresses idle details,
just as our memory does. " Â– Jorge Luis Borges

Even though Sam Mendes' Revolutionary Road is set in the suburbs, the
reality is, that it is set in a dream world, an illusion; The illusion
of purpose, of ones place in society and of what we are 'supposed' to
do. We are supposed to get married, we are supposed to have children,
and we are supposed to move to the quite suburbs and raise a family.
Why? Because that is what everyone does, what everyone has done, and is
the ingrained belief that everyone will continue to follow; there is no
other reason, it's the blind leading the blind. That is the message
that perforates the film, and is the hell that consumes the lives of
April and Frank Wheeler. Revolutionary Road is and intricate and
intimate portrait of how the so called 'American Dream' is sometimes
the 'American Nightmare'.

They were happy once. Frank Wheeler (Leonardo DiCaprio) was fresh from
the horror, but freedom of the war and April (Kate Winslet) has great
aspirations of becoming an actress. Married and in love, the couple buy
a modest but quaint house on Revolutionary Road. But nine years later,
two children and two crushed ambitions later, the doldrums and
encroaching insanity of suburban life consumes the Wheeler's. Frank has
an affair with a new co-worker, at a job he cannot stand, and April
plays the role of mother, jumping about a few tired stage plays in a
desperate attempt to feel alive. Following an explosive confrontation,
April pitches the idea that they simply up and leave for Paris, the
place Frank (that he visited during the war) said is the only place he
ever felt truly happy and vibrant. But an unexpected pregnancy and a
new promotion at work stifle their globe trotting plan, and the two
spiral into despair. 

Sam Mendes is no stranger when it comes to dealing with the pressures
of suburban life, and as with his masterpiece American Beauty the
simplicity of the narrative works to great effect. Unfortunately, there
are a number of things that keep this film from reaching such heights,
yet I assure you it is not the performances of the leads, with Winslet
continuing her streak of stellar work and DiCaprio exploding onto the
screen with some of his best work ever. Some of the supporting cast is
less effective, such as a neighbour's son (Michael Shannon) who is
given a reprieve from the mental institution where he stays. Visiting
the Wheeler's he openly spouts profound insights into the horrors of
conformity, and in turn, cranks up the subtlety of the films message to
a sledgehammer across the face. I am not sure of this characters role
in the novel, but I assume something was lost in translation. 

With the highs and lows of the relationship, Mendes seems to follow
suit with the screenplay which is at times astoundingly emotional and
disturbing, and at times ghostly and uninvolving. The characters
themselves are not particularly likable, but the film is so haunting,
especially when completely over, it is hard not to recommend. There is,
however, a fine line between a film that is tragic and one that is
depressing, and Mendes is very close to crossing the line. But so well
shot, so well scripted and with such powerhouse performances, it is
still a solid success. Kate Winslet's character once quips, "You never
forget the truth, you just get better at lying." and with Revolutionary
Road it is nothing but brutally honest, and is sure to have those
people dreaming of that white picket fence and two car garage seriously
re- examining their 'dream'.

Read all my reviews at: http://www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
