
I'm a man's man, and it takes something really exceptional to break my
emotionless machine persona. This film ripped me apart and reminded me
(and my partner) of humanity inside even the most hardened man.

Perfectly weighted film in every way, from pace to acting and all
framed with a wonderful score. The subtlety of the looks passing
between the actors and a finale that ensured silence until the final
credit rolled, makes this one of the best films i've seen in a long
time.

This is the first review I have never written and i cannot think of a
better way to have opened my account.
<|_=00=_|>
My fiancé and I purchased tickets for a special advanced screening of
this movie during the Carnegie Film Festival in Dunfermline, Fife. I
didn't realise, but we were one of the first people to see it. I will
try and not spoil it and keep the review very simple and straight
forward.

The film is mainly shot through the eyes of Bruno played by Asa
Butterfield growing up in war time Germany during the holocaust. After
relocating at the will of the German Army, the film then centres on the
friendship between Bruno and Shmuel (Jack Scanlon). I will end it there
as I don't wish to spoil the rest of the film.

Putting to one side the fact that everyone has a flawless English
accent (which does make it difficult to hate them at first), the
cinematics, sound, editing and above all acting are a credit to the
British film industry.

Asa Butterfield is fine young actor and I'm sure will be destined for
even greater things in the future.

As I mentioned above, I won't give anything away, but I will say that
this is the first time I have been to the Cinema and everyone sat quiet
right up until the end of the credits.

Please, please see this film. It will remain with you for a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
When my son (nearly 12 years old) read the book he was awake until 5am
that night thinking about the story and what it all meant; he had some
penetrating questions too. A day or so later he said that he thought
that it would make a good film, and imagine his delight when he saw
that there was a film of the book.

I have taken him to see the film; and was riveted. I think that the
style of the film is really that of an old fashioned family film,
however the subject matter is emotionally very demanding and all the
better for that. It does what good drama should do - makes you think
and feel. As the credits ran, at the showing that I saw, no one moved
or spoke for a minute or two. The Holocaust is a difficult subject, but
to tell a story in such a way that it is accessible to a 12 year is a
great achievement.

There have been some comments that the cast speak English (rather than,
presumably, German) and that this is somehow a bad thing. What are the
alternatives? Either sub-titles or daft 'ello 'ello accents. In some
ways the ordinariness of the Nazis and the family points up the horror
of what happened  that ordinary people can do the worst of things to
fellow human beings.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been more than a few films on the subject of the Holocaust,
possibly the daddy of them all being Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's
List" based on the book "Schindler's Ark" by Thomas Keneally. Much
better, however, in my mind is Costa-Gavras' "Amen" based on Rolf
Hochhuth's play "Le Vicaire". Now Mark Herman's "The Boy in the Striped
Pajamas", itself based on John Boyne's novel, is fit to mentioned
alongside these two great films.

I was initially doubtful at the premise of this film since my knowledge
of Holocaust history suggested that 8 year old boys would have been
sent straight to the gas chambers on arrival rather than set to work in
a camp (obviously I am happy to be set straight on this point if I am
wrong). And having seen the film, I also doubt that the boy in the camp
(Shmuel, well played by Jack Scanlon) would be able to sit at the camp
fence undetected long enough to meet and talk to Bruno, the camp
Commandant's son (an astonishingly assured performance by newcomer Asa
Butterfield).

There has also been some criticism of the fact that all the actors
speak in Received Pronounciation English accents (even American actress
Vera Farmiga, whose English accent is completely faultless). This is
true, although to be completely accurate, all the actors would have to
speak in German and the film would have had to be subtitled as a
result.

In truth, however, none of these criticisms actually matters a damn.
For even though all of the above is undeniably true, the film still
works. And my, how it works. When it finished, I sat in my seat stunned
(I had the same reaction after watching "Disaster Movie" last week, but
most definitely not for the same reason, I assure you).

The Holocaust as seen through the prism of 8 year old German boy is a
novel approach and although we all know what is happening at the camp
nearby, at the beginning, he does not. And every step he takes, he gets
closer to discovering the truth, losing his childhood innocence in the
process.

What I liked about this film is the sophisticated and multi-layered
portrayal of the German characters. None of them are one dimensional
wholly evil characters but nor are they wholly good either (not even
Bruno who tells lies on several occasions, one occasion which results
in brutal punishment for one of the prisoners as a consequence).

With good performances from Asa Butterfield as Bruno, Amber Beattie as
his sister, David Thewlis as his father, Vera Farmiga as his mother and
Jack Scanlon as Shmuel, this may not be the first film about the loss
of childhood innocence in the Holocaust (Roberto Benigni beat Herman to
it with "Life is Beautiful" and whilst Benigni's film has a powerful
end of its own, even that does not compare to the powerful shattering
ending which this film possesses) but it is the best and most effective
to date.

With restrained direction by Mark Herman and a similarly restrained
score from James Horner, if this film does not win the hat full of
Oscars next year that it surely deserves, the Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences will have shown itself to be completely irrelevant.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited my theater got The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas, from
the moment I saw this trailer, I knew I was in for a treat. This movie
just looked incredible, even though it's a touchy subject with the
holocaust, it still looked like it was going to be a great story.
Everyone always makes a comment about the innocence of childhood, what
it was like to just not have reason, to just go with the flow of things
before adults tell you what you have to do. So I watched The Boy in the
Striped Pyjamas today and this movie seriously is one of the saddest
films I have ever seen, but I felt it was very maturely handled. The
actors are great and the story is very touching, to watch these two
boys from two completely different worlds who come together just to
have fun, be boys, not because of the difference of their background.

Set during World War II, a story seen through the innocent eyes of
Bruno, the eight-year-old son of the commandant at a concentration
camp, whose forbidden friendship with a Jewish boy on the other side of
the camp fence. The boys have a great friendship talking every day,
enjoying the company. But when the father gives Bruno a Nazi propaganda
loving tutor, Bruno becomes confused, is his father an evil man or is
his friend the evil one? Love his country and do his duty or don't
judge and just stay true to his friend? Bruno must decide all this with
some scary consequences ahead of him.

The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is a fantastic film, though if you see
it, I do recommend bringing the tissues. I couldn't believe the
chemistry they had with these two young actors, they worked so well
together as these innocent boys who both have no idea what's going on.
Bruno doesn't know why his friend is behind fences, and his friend
doesn't know why he's there either. The ending is extremely powerful
and the story keeps you interested. I do recommend seeing The Boy in
the Striped Pyjamas, it's a treasure from 2008.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I read the book "The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas" after coming across it
in the library almost a year ago, and it amazed me. The unique approach
taken by Mr Boyne put the subject matter across in a fresh and, if it
is possible, even more heart-wrenching fashion. When I heard they were
making the book into a film, I was very anxious, as I thought that they
couldn't possibly convey the book onto the screen appropriately. 

I am delighted to say that I was entirely wrong. I have just this
minute returned home from seeing the film and I am absolutely stunned.
The film is practically identical to the book, which was wonderful to
see, and I thought that the acting was superb. Vera Farmiga and Asa
Butterfield were, I thought, exceptional. The film was handled
fantastically and I believe that the feel of the novel was not lost in
the translation to screen. 

Seeing the film was a lot more intense than reading the book and, even
knowing what was coming, I found myself sobbing at the end, as were my
father and step-mother, the latter of whom had never read the book, and
was utterly shocked. This is the first film I have ever seen in which
the whole audience were silent from beginning to end, and then, when
the film ended, not a single person moved for a long time afterwards. 

The film is an incredibly powerful, moving story, told superbly well by
a stellar cast and crew. I would recommend it immensely to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I was sitting at the very back row of Cineworld, Dublin screen nine and
struggling with my tears. I thought it would be extremely embarrassing
if people see tears in my eyes. But I was so wrong! The lady sitting
beside me was crying like anything. Finally we ended up with the move
and it started showing casts on its black screen. But, not a single
person moved from his seat or probably lost their (including myself)
power to move. The only sound I heard was the sound of people's
emotion. Guy sitting one row before me hugged his girlfriend who were
crying like a little kid. The guy himself was also in tear. I saw a
girl from Cineworld cleaning staff with horrifying red eyes. Everyone
was spellbound there! 

I am talking about the movie THE BOY IN THE STRIPED PYJAMAS,
unexpectedly a too good movie. I didn't have a single clue about the
movie itself and just tried to explore something new. Fortunately or
unfortunately, Bruno (main cast of the movie), a young 8-years old kid
who love to explore new world explored too much for us that made us all
cry while leaving the cinema. I just don't want to spoil your
entertainment by giving hints about the story. Rather, I would suggest
you to watch the movie and discover some critical facts that sometime
we forget in this heartless world.

THE BOY IN THE STRIPED PYJAMAS, a movie from an Irish writer and an
English director; everyone must watch. If you tell me to rate, I would
say, 1 to 10 scale is not enough to rate this movie. We better keep it
above rating!
<|_=00=_|>
There are more dramatic and more philosophical pieces of cinema dealing
with this very emotive subject, but few deal with the horror, futility
and falsehood of the "final solution" with such clear simplicity. We
see the lead characters as both humans and monsters we see internal
conflict and how they each come to terms with their conflicts, above
all we see how futile their conclusions were.

There will be the predictable comparisons with Schindler's List but you
might also want to compare this movie to "The Counterfeiters" which
also deals with the conflicts necessary to survive. Watching this movie
I kept being drawn back to Primo Levi's book "If This is Man" the story
of his time as a prisoner suffering from this evil.

The great success of the film is its simplicity, it does not seek to
over analyse but simply allows the development of the characters to
tell the story.

One of the contributers spoke of how he was in screen 9 (if I remember
correctly) in Cineworld Dublin - I was in Screen 11 and I can had the
same experience, the film ended and no one moved, all were in a state
of shock, no, sorrow. This is not a film for young children, but older
children and adults familiar with the evil addressed in this movie
should go and see it. This movie deserves great success. I rate it 9
out of 10 and would have given it a perfect score except for some small
technical questions, but none that take away from this fantastic piece
of cinema - All associated with this movie should be rightly proud of
there work and if any of you read these comments - Thank You!
<|_=00=_|>
Although it starts of slow,you soon get wrapped up in the story and
feel as if you are there. It's amazing to see the different points of
view and the acting is so believable you feel as if it is all happening
there and then. I have cried at films in the cinema before but this is
the only film that has made me want to sob. When it finished and the
credits started rolling, no one moved from their seats or said
anything. We were all shocked, and when people did start to get up an
leave the cinema, still no one said anything. It is the best film i
have ever seen and recommend everyone sees it.

Sophie x x x
<|_=00=_|>
You don't often sit in a BAFTA screening and hear weeping behind you
but even the most hardened cineaste would be moved by this look at the
holocaust through an Aryan child's eyes.

It is beautifully scripted, acted and shot too - with none of the
anachronisms of taste and language that bedevil historically-set films
such as The Duchess.

A small, British movie with an unusual take on a ghastly and well-worn
subject.

PS - for parents: It's a 12A in Britain and I wouldn't take a child
under about eleven. Nor would I let them go alone.
