
First off, you need to know that I joined IMDb purely to undo the
diabolically misleading rating that this movie has gotten. I must say,
I was not expecting much from it, but as the credits rolled by, I
quickly made the decision that this movie was going up on my facebook
list of favorite movies.

Milla Jovovich has never been a spectacular actress in my book. She's
great in action flicks (I am a massive fan of the Resident Evil
series!), but I've always found that she goes a bit overboard when
taking on dramatic or real life roles. I was more than pleasantly
surprised when it dawned on me just how good a job she did on this
film! Granted, no one needed Oscar worthy acting to pull off their
roles; every actor in this film held their own. 

From beginning to end, I was totally drawn in - both character and
story-wise. Sure, you come across some clich√©s here and there, but
that's totally to be expected. The entire movie is cleverly put
together and is sure to keep you guessing every step of the way. The
characters are well developed, the acting is great, the scenery and
cinematography are outstanding - some very inventive shots towards the
climax of the film - and the story will definitely leave you with the
feeling that "it" actually hasn't all been done before. 

Every person that has rated this movie low falls under one of two
categories: Either they missed an integral part of the story (I watched
the film twice just to make sure I was right about this), or they have
ludicrously high standards. 

Movies are by no means my life. I'm sure my rating of 8 is probably a
bit biased (for some reason, this movie really did it for me on pretty
much all fronts), but any rating below a 7, in my humble opinion, says
more about a lack on the reviewer's end... not the film's. This is
definitely a must see for anyone into this genre! One for the
collection, even!
<|_=00=_|>
A Perfect Getaway was nowhere near a perfect film, but it was certainly
a good film. The trailers made it out to be a much more non-stop,
action thriller than it really was, showing the last 20 minutes. The
majority of the film centers around paranoia. It is true though that
the plot twist can be seen coming from a mile away, but how it is
delivered is where it succeeds. While I personally wasn't surprised,
how the twist was presented was quite original and chill-inducing. I'll
leave it at that. Where this film really succeeds is in the
cinematography and acting, both of which are superb. The locale is
beautiful, all the colors are vibrantly displayed and everything looks
crisp. There are some scenes with intriguing camera work that works
well to add intensity and be intuitive. All the actors really give it
their best and create believable characters. Milla was good as usual,
but Zahn really surprised me. I never really gave him credit for how
good of an actor he is until about now. Overall, it's worth the watch
and is ultimately very entertaining with wonderful characters.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a good movie. However, it will probably not get a fair shot by
most. The reason is the way the story is structured in which apparently
nothing happens in the first 45 minutes. For today's average 18-34
audience this is almost intolerable as they are now conditioned to
expect cheap CGI thrills and impossibly huge explosions in the first
two minutes of the film (not necessarily a bad thing BTW). What
underrated Director/Writer David Towhy is doing is actually putting
your brain to work during the first two acts of the movie, all the
while enjoying some incredible visuals of the Hawaiian tropical rain
forest. Towhy concentrates on subtle character development. The acting
is good. Mila Jovovich and Timothy Oliphant are the two that carry the
film throughout. All in all I have to say that Towhy put out a fairly
plausible story here with none of the CGI generated hyperbole that we
see so much of nowadays.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I can't believe SO many people are rating this film so
highly as a great thriller when the first half of the movie is
deliberately false. Remember people, it's only a good twist if it does
not violate the internal logic of the film! If you spent the time to
read a murder mystery and the murderer turned out to be some guy that
wasn't introduced until the last page, would you be feel satisfied, or
ripped-off? Unfortunately you can see the twist coming a mile away but
frankly I didn't want to believe the talented David Twohey would stoop
so low. Basically the first half shows numerous scenes with the
Zahn/Jovovich couple wondering (to themselves) who the murderers are.
Unless you are outright lying to the audience, denying them the chance
to figure it out, these scenes clearly establish that Zahn/Jovovich are
not the killers. Then comes the "twist" - they are in fact the killers
and the filmmakers have been lying to you. Absolutely idiotic and a
slap in the face to anyone who appreciates a well-crafted movie. I'd
rate this lower but for the good performances of the principal actors,
especially Oliphant. Rewatch "The Usual Suspects" instead.
<|_=00=_|>
I would have given this movie 7 or maybe even 8 stars if not for one
HUGE inconsistency in the movie: The characters who end up being the
killers are completely inconsistent between the 1st and 2nd halves of
the movie. For example, they have multiple "secret" conversations with
just the two of them trying to "figure out" if one of the other couples
could possibly be the murderers. They make comments such as "It really
could be them", and imply that they really think a specific couple is
the murderers. This is completely inconsistent because if they were
alone (and they were the murderers all along) then why would they feel
the need to speak like this to each other all by themselves???? It does
not reconcile. The only reason was to "trick" (or basically, lie) to
the audience by making them completely different characters half-way
through the movie, and ignoring everything they might have lead us to
believe about them up to that point, whether it makes sense or not. I
love a good plot twist, but when the writer/director has to lie and
make the characters inconsistent like this in order to do so, it really
turns me off of the movie.

Other than the above, the scenery was unbelievable and makes me want to
go to Hawaii very badly, and I thought the acting was terrific.
<|_=00=_|>
Newlyweds Cliff (Steve Zahn) and Cydney (Milla Jovovich) are
honeymooning in Hawaii when they decide to hike a popular trail through
the lush Hawaiian wilderness. Halfway into their hike, the two learn
about the slaying of another newlywed couple on one of the neighboring
islands. The killers? A man and woman. Soon after, they encounter
another couple on the trail, Nick (Timothy Olyphant) and his
girlfriend, Gina (Kiele Sanchez). The four continue on the trail as a
group, but it isn't long before Cliff and Cydney begin to suspect their
new acquaintances of being the killers. There's also the shady
hitchhikers, Kale (Chris Hemsworth) and Cleo (Marley Shelton, looking
particularly nice with braided hair), who seem to be following them.

While I was able to correctly guess the identity of the killer's just
from watching the trailer, I still had a great time with this. The
performances are really strong. I've heard others say that Zahn and
Jovovich aren't a believable pairing. I've seen several instances of
stunning women with less attractive guys, so that's nonsense. Aside
from that, they're terrific together. This is a dialogue-heavy film
with several amusing character moments thrown in, all of which the
actors nail. Olyphant is the standout as Nick, a former marine with a
bit of a screw loose. The humor actually works, the quirkiness adding
to the picture. I also thought that the B&W exposition scene was
well-done, better than most of it's ilk. These types of scenes are
generally frowned upon, but here it winds up being a highlight.

The Puerto Rican locations (subbing for Hawaii) are quite lovely,
though the dangers of the trail aren't played up as much as I'd
expected. It isn't an element that's necessarily needed, however, as I
found the film to be plenty suspenseful as is. The killers were obvious
to me, yes, but the I was more caught up in the situations than the
reveal. For instance, the situation of the reveal made for a terrific
moment. It's all in how it's done. While I could have done without the
annoying screenwriter in-jokes, they don't ruin the suspense either.

I'd say that director David Twohy has more hits than misses, and this
clever slice of pulpy entertainment continues that trend.
<|_=00=_|>
First the pros - 99% of the movie was shot in daylight in the beautiful
Hawaiian nature, really relaxing to the eyes. Good cast, good acting
overall. Interesting story, which actually pulled my attention and made
me watch the movie. The promised twist was there and was a big one, but
more about it in cons... Cons - Well, the promised "twist" was a huge
and unexpected one. So unexpected it was really difficult to believe.
It made me wondering like "Wow, wait a minute! Weren't they doing this
and this a few minutes ago? Didn't they tell this and this? Ehmmm....
they actually did, so what the...?" The script wasn't really finished
(well) IMHO, it made me feel like the story was born during writing the
script, but after finishing it there was no time/will to rework the
beginning and synchronize it with the end. This made the lead
characters really inconsistent and left me quiet unsatisfied after the
movie ended, even if I have to say the final action sequence was good
enough.
<|_=00=_|>
I just caught this movie without knowing what it is about other than a
thriller, survivor-type genre. I never even caught the trailer before,
and boy...i was surprised. i didn't see it coming.

I believed that nowadays, trailers tend to give a lot away or even
critiques do, and giving credit to this film, if one were like me, this
is one of the best movie experienced.

The characters were all likable and believable and the pacing of the
story was handled extremely well. I was neither bored during the slow
scenes as it constantly kept the characters growing as individuals. I'd
be recommending it as much as other films that i do enjoy
<|_=00=_|>
David Twohy has been associated with some rather notable films, from
"The Fugitive" (regarded as one of the best thrillers of the '90s) to
well-regarded sci-fi like "The Arrival" and "Pitch Black." In "A
Perfect Getaway," he threads his script (which he also directed) with a
self-referential attitude toward the craft of screen writing (a
heavy-handed nod to the "Scream" trilogy) that is immediately
problematic, since, well...this movie exemplifies everything that is
WRONG with the modern thriller. From the generic title to the egregious
miscasting to the sloppy pacing and awkward transitions, "Getaway" has
more in common with a made-for-cable production, circa 1993. Odd couple
Steve Zahn (he's a budding Hollywood screenwriter!) and Milla Jovovich
(she's a smiling bubblehead!) are celebrating their honeymoon in
Hawaii, just as a string of murders are sweeping the island (gasp!);
once there, they run afoul two Creepy Hitchhikers (one played by
"Grindhouse"'s Marley Shelton) and another young couple played by
Timothy Olyphant (he's a creepy war vet with a titanium plate in his
head!) and Kiele Sanchez (she smokes dope and guts wild goats!). As a
result of Twohy's self-referential gimmickry, "Getaway" consistently
defuses its own scant thrills, and fails to muster much suspense; as it
goes for Hitchcock with its character-based story machinations (even
incorporating an anvil-subtle sense of macabre humor), the director all
but admits his desperation in the last act, when a peppermint-tinged
flashback sequence (that anticlimactically goes on for far too long)
abandons motive and character to whomp the viewer over the head with a
succession of increasingly pathetic "twists." While Twohy's script does
them absolutely no favors, the cast is simply incapable of elevating
the material, in no small part because the performers themselves are so
disparate: Zahn, best known for his comedic persona, does well in the
film's first half, but when asked to go "dark," becomes a laughable
portrait of evil; Jovovich, known mostly for action roles, fails as the
starry-eyed suburban naif, but succeeds as a rugged ass-kicker; and
Olyphant, a character actor with a spotty track record, is unconvincing
as a Forrest Gump-like simpleton nattering away about "screenplay
writers." Since the mystery at its core is of little interest (and even
less once revealed), "A Perfect Getaway" leaves the viewer plenty of
time to ponder how a thriller this pedestrian and trite was deemed
worthy of a release by a major studio, even in the midst of one of the
worst cinematic summers in recent memory. (Wait, I think I get it
now...)
<|_=00=_|>
During the honeymoon in Hawaii, the screenwriter Cliff Anderson (Steve
Zahn) and his wife Cydney (Milla Jovovich) decide to hike in the
Kalalau Trail to a paradisiacal beach. While driving to the spot, they
refuse to give a lift to the strange couple Kale (Chris Hemsworth) and
Cleo (Marley Shelton). Cliff and Cydney befriend the former marine Nick
(Timothy Olyphant) in the trail and then they meet three girls that
tell them that the police are chasing a man and a woman that had
slaughtered a couple in honeymoon in Oahu, removing their teeth and
finger tips. Cliff and Cydney decide to go along with Nick and they
meet his girlfriend Gina (Kiele Sanchez) that is camped in Secret
Falls. The two couples decide to tag along to the beach together, and
along their journey, they feel tense with possible stalkers until the
police helicopter captures Kale and Cleo. But danger is still in the
Kalalau Trail.

"A Perfect Getaway" is a surprisingly great thriller, with Steve Zahn
performing an unusual role. The screenplay is excellent and the plot is
very well-constructed. When I finished watching the DVD, I decided to
watch the beginning again to find any possible plot hole, but the
dialogs are ambiguous and it is impossible to discover the identities
of the killers. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Trilha" ("The Trail")
