
Enthralling, captivating. Buenos Aires, maybe? Black and White scope
mostly, the limpid soul and devastating smile of Alden Ehrenreich.
Coppola enjoys his freedom and so do we. At the base of it all, a juicy
melodrama but the master flies over it with a tireless, youthful zest.
Vincent Gallo seem a bit of an odd choice to play the title role and in
fact I just found out that Matt Dillon was supposed to have played it.
It certainly would have added up the romanticism and the sensuality
that runs through it but, never mind. Alden Ehrenreich as Bennie is,
quite simply, fantastic. Maribel Verdu another stand out as Tetro's
loving if long suffering companion. Karl Maria Brandauer is horribly
perfect, a character that emanates the kind of debauchery fame and
rotten ego can provide. "There is room for just one genius in this
family" I saw the film last night and it hasn't left me for a moment. I
can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Thousand of miles away from Hollywood, the great Francis Coppola
confronts something personal as a human being as well as a filmmaker.
The story a young man looking for his older brother under the crippling
shadow of a famous father. Hummm. Compelling, absorbing, mesmerizing at
times. The younger brother is played with real magic by newcomer Alden
Ehrenreich but for some inexplicable reason the older brother and title
role is played by Vincent Gallo. He's an interesting guy but not at all
the pivot that, clearly, the part required. I needed to feel things
that Gallo didn't provide. He's just weird and even in the enormous
emotional scenes (like the final one) he's not really there. I wonder
why Coppola made this bizarre casting decision. The rest of the cast is
fabulous and Buenos Aires breaths a life of its own even if, it didn't
feel like Buenos Aires - I know that city pretty well - it looked at
times like a border town in Mexico. Buenos Aires has an old fashion,
seductive kind of elegance nowhere to be found here. I'm sure there is
reason for it and I hope to discover it in my next viewing because this
is a film I know I'll see many, many times. Another thing to cheer
about, a strange and haunting score (it reminded me of "Apartment Zero"
in more ways than one) and a sensational black and white Cinemascope
screen. To be seen!
<|_=00=_|>
Tetro may be the "best" film Francis Ford Coppola has made in
twenty-five years. Whether this speaks more to the quality of his
present state of direction as an artist or on the relative hits and
misses of his career in the dregs of Hollywood (be it aiming high and
just missing the mark with Godfather 3 and Dracula to stuff that went
over people's heads like Youth Without Youth to even crap like Jack) is
a combination. He's someone who attained financial success at a time,
but then lost nearly all of it and along with it, arguably, some of his
artistic merit. But after years of laying low and making wine, and
making a whacked-out experiment that people either dug as an abstract
piece or hated to hell ('Youth'), he comes out with Tetro like a porn
star with a five-foot erection. He's got something to prove, if not to
his audience then himself, and he proves it with a story that is
personal and a film-making technique that recalls other masters but
never too directly.

Tetro is about family, a subject Coppola is, of course, well-versed in
being it the notorious kind (of course, the Godfather) and the more
low-level and oddly intimate (Rumble Fish). It's a story, as with
Rumble Fish, told in crisp black and white widescreen with flashes of
color for flashbacks which may or may not be real, and as homage to
operas like The Tales of Hoffmann. The title character, wonderfully and
intensely portrayed by Vincent Gallo, is in a creative exile in Buenos
Aires, a once promising writer living with his doctor-wife (Maribel
Verdu, great as always) who is paid a visit one day by a young man, his
brother Bennie (baby-faced newcomer Alden Ehrenreich) who hasn't seen
him in years. There's secrets withheld by Tetro, not least of which
about their parents, and soon an unfinished, longhand written play by
Tetro (real name Angelo) is discovered by Bennie in a suitcase. He'll
finish his brother's play, but at what cost? 

The damaged, almost bi-polar writer, the insistent and impressionable
brother, the strong but uncertain woman, these characters are fully
realized by Coppola, and then on top of this comes a sort of terrific
puzzle that is constructed through Tetro's unfinished play: what about
their father, a famous composer (Klaus Maria Brandeur) who split them
apart, possibly, or possibly not? What about their mother, who died in
a car accident? What about the bond between Tetro and his former
mentor, "Alone", the dubbed "most important critic in South America"
who has created a pretentious empire around herself? Questions arise,
and Coppola rises to the challenge of giving the audience answers but
not spoon-fed. It's first and foremost a story of family, of brothers
who love but have to find ways to contend with their damaged
selves(inspiration being Rocco and His Brothers mayhap), and it's here
that it's just about classic, on par with Rumble Fish if not even
deeper and wiser about the effect of parents, or lack thereof, in lives
spent and possibly wasted.

The writing is immensely interesting, always, even when Coppola may
fall into over-indulging in his fantastic self-indulgence as an artist,
such as with the operatic flourishes towards the end (this may not make
sense, but compared to the WAY over indulgence of the hard-to-defend
Y.W.Y it will). If anything the little imperfections, those brush
strokes that go so high with the colors and shadows and impressionistic
lighting that he and DP Mihai Malaimaire Jr engage in (one who
hopefully will be getting more work following such spectacular work on
a mix of 35mm and HD) along with Walter Murch's dependable editing,
make it an even stronger work. It should feel a little messy here and
there, because its subject matter is about finding a sense of purpose,
in each other and in one's art. One feels Coppola working through a
history of close but torn family ties, of losing loved ones (i.e. his
own son), and at the same time a love of them all and of cinema peeking
through in nearly every scene, even the ones where it doesn't look like
much is going on.

Tetro is the antidote, basically, for this month's Transformers sequel.
If you need to find the polar opposite of a picture based practically
on just making money and reeling in the crowds with its dumb giant
robot battles and preposterous and shallow theatrics, look no further
than a picture which cares about its characters, its multi-faceted
story and themes, and about projecting a technique that hearkens back
to cinema of the 50s and 60s while sticking to an originality by its
filmmaker. This will likely stay with me for a while, which is what
Coppola's most profound works have done.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a film major. Hell I've never even been to college. Through my
horrible grammar and misspellings, you will take note of how I even
barely got through high school.

There are films out there that have puzzled me (anything by David
Lynch), films that have made me laugh (Dumb and Dumber was my favorite)
and foreign films that I once considered to be the way films should be
made (Let the Right One In, Ichi the Killer). I've seen films that have
bored me (Gummo, Brown Bunny) and have had my guilty
pleasure(unfortunately, Transformers 2.

But never, NEVER in my life have I seen a film that has engrossed me
like this has. I have never walked out of a theatre in absolute awe.
Never have I truly been able to say that a film made me laugh, made me
cry, made me FEEL true emotions for a character. Such beautiful
cinematography, such bold yet unobtrusive dialog... no one character
"steals the show".

I sat in that theatre for 143 minutes and not once was I bored. Not
once was I annoyed by a character, or a one-liner. Not once was my jaw
not dropped.

This film is what a film should be... what films were meant to be.
There are movies out there for entertainment but every once in a while,
there is a film that comes along that changes the way you feel about
entering a theatre all together.

I viewed this film with 10 other people in a small college theatre that
will only play this film for one week. And the only reason I came to
watch it was because my girlfriend absolutely adores Vincent Gallo
(which he is amazing in) and no other reasons than that.

I don't know what else I could say about this film that could praise it
any more that I have. I love this film. It's the greatest movie I've
ever seen. That may not seem like much to you since you all have
possibly seen similar movies in film class, or through word of mouth.
But for the average joe such as myself, this film is a masterpiece.

Bravo, Copolla. Bravo.
<|_=00=_|>
As a lover of Coppola's Great films, I'll watch anything he does, no
matter how many misfires he produces. And I hate to admit it, but for
me, Tetro was a complete misfire. I'm actually surprised at all the
strong reviews and I wonder if people saw the same movie as me.

The film's Art House all the way. Black and white, staged like a play,
BIG Greek and literary themes driving the story, to obvious devices
like a cat named "Problema", a man in a cast until his brother arrives,
symbolically driving the character arcs and story.

Coppola obvious loves theater. The film is filmed with theater pieces
throughout the storyline and the movie itself feels like it belonged on
stage.

This is all good if it works, but it didn't. The film was redundant,
the characters clich√©'s, the dialogue uninteresting....and the acting
of the two male leads was completely undramatic. Nothing against anyone
personally, but to me, Vincent Gallo is just not a good actor. He's
personae. Coppola failed because he cast an actor who looks and feels
exactly like the self-indulgent "artist" that Coppola was trying to
characterize in Tetro. The result was that there was nothing fresh in
this film, especially in the characters. (The lead actress was strong,
and she overshadowed both the men on screen.) I think Coppola is
rediscovering his craft, and it's starting with story telling. The film
is extremely ambitious as it tries to tackle the father and son dynamic
for the 1000th time in literary history. It's hard to forgive, or miss,
sub-par and redundant writing in this genre and Coppola unfortunately
brought nothing fresh to the literary table. What he did bring fresh,
if anything, was art house to the American public, but unfortunately
the film isn't strong enough to break into mainstream America. Not even
close. The film attempts to be serious and viewers who see Coppola's
name over a black and white dramatic piece about fathers and sons will
pretense a masterpiece...just because. But it's not a masterpiece by
any stretch of the imagination.

Imagine the best of American black and white films that were either
derived from the stage or a homage to plays and classical dramatic
writing. Tetro could be A Streetcar Named Desire if it worked. But it's
not even close. Streetcar had acting, it had characters, it had fresh
dialogue, it had real drama. Nothing in Tetro could measure to these
standards - not even the self-conscious cinematography. The main male
actors bring nothing to life in this film because they don't know how
to and because the writing gets in the way. Anyone who thinks this film
is great, please go back and watch these movies and remember what great
character driven dramatic cinema should be. Let's not reward on
intention, but on execution.

Coppola should have rewritten this script for another year before he
filmed it and recast it with serious actors (V Gallo doesn't even read
scripts he receives, he just reads his parts). He would have achieved
something much better than what he did here.

Everyone bitches about the studio system, but, I hate to say it,
Coppola was at his best when he worked with the talent the studio
system affords and attracts.

As a human being, good for him that he can make films on his own terms,
all the power to him. But, go deeper next time Francis and perfect your
script before you shoot it and find real actors to pull it off.
<|_=00=_|>
For Francis Ford Coppola, the last forty years have been an uphill
battle, not only with critics but also against an adoring public who
have held him to the highest of standards since such masterpieces as
"The Godfather" and "The Godfather: Part 2", both having brought home
Best Picture Oscars and garnering best Director nods, the latter
presenting him with the win. Films like "One from the Heart" and "Peggy
Sue Got Married" make even his most hardcore of fans wonder, "What the
hell is going through this guys freakin' skull?" Can directors truly
lose their finesse? Can these just be metaphorical ruts like we've seen
from the recent string of M. Night Shyamalan disasterpieces? What's the
exact percentage ratio of wine from Coppola Vineyards that he consumes
to that of which he produces? I digress. Now two years after the
mediocre "Youth Without Youth", Coppola churns out "Tetro", a small
little self authored Indy film that may just be the one he needs to
regain credibility in the eyes of his audiences. The question is¬Ödoes
he pull it off? Bennie (Played by fresh face Alden Ehrenreich) has
traveled to Buenos Aires to re-connect with his estranged brother
(Vincent Gallo, Buffalo 66') who now goes by the name of "Tetro". Upon
his arrival, he is greeted by the gorgeous Miranda (Mirabel Verdu),
Tetro's girlfriend, who graciously invites him to stay at their home
against Tetro's own reservations. It doesn't take long before Bennie
begins to realize that his long lost brother is not the person he once
was, but rather an on edge, manic and short tempered poet. "When I met
him," says Miranda, "he said he was a writer. He held everything he
ever wrote against his chest." As the story unfolds absolutely nothing
is what it appears to be and when Bennie gets his hands on one of
Tetro's unfinished plays, he finds out that the true story of his
family holds secrets darker than he could have ever imagined.

Simply put, "Tetro" is Francis Ford Coppola's reinvention back into
"quality" cinema and a perfect example of the wonder that can be
achieved when a Director is in control of practically all creative
aspects of his work. Don't be mistaken, if you're looking for the
Coppola from the 70's, he's long gone. This new Coppola has been
reborn, emerging as someone quite different. Funded entirely through
revenue from his private vineyard, he's created one of the most
stylistically atmospheric black and white films that I've seen in
recent memory. One can't help but feel that there are heavy influences
by the great Italian filmmaker Federico Fellini throughout, especially
through the incorporation of operatic high drama and scenes that feel
all too autobiographic to be dismissed as pure coincidence. In
addition, there is a subtle Noir accent which is credited to Mihai
Malaimare's gorgeous cinematography. Coppola is now, a true Indy,
non-conformist filmmaker and my gut tells me that he really doesn't
care. Instead, he doesn't give it all away, but rather does an
exceptional job of keeping the motives, feelings and details about his
characters well hidden for the longest possible duration of time until
it is inevitable for such crucial facts to be revealed solely to aid
the plot.

Mainstream audiences may just come to hate Tetro. It has an overall
"artsy" coat to it that many of today's average moviegoers may not be
able to get past. This includes extended, sporadically placed dance
sequences from Powell and Pressburger's celluloid Opera "The Tales of
Hoffmann" as well as original ballet numbers which are used to convey
character emotions and cleverly emphasis certain themes. That said,
foreign film aficionados, especially those of such Directors as
Giuseppe Tornatore or Michael Radford, will be delighted with Coppola's
knowledge of the Genre and passionate homage to those who have coined
it. Through the script, he is precise and very careful with what he
chooses to include as well as place importance on. With many scenes
purely dialogue driven, he is a master of building tension without
having to rely on the support of quick cutting, action or special
effects to drive home his points.

Actor Vincent Gallo, in one of his first non-self Directed/self written
films, fits comfortably into the role of Tetro. His narcissism (which I
believe is in fact also grounded in his real life) brings life to the
part and he's believable straight up to the films shocking conclusion.
There is a certain vulnerability and a hurt that Gallo also manages to
convey which is really what makes Tetro such an interesting character
to watch on screen. Newcomer Alden Ehrenreich has a look matched by the
likes of Leonardo DeCaprio, and certainly has the acting chops to pull
it off. There is a definite star appeal about him that seems to emanate
naturally which will certainly cause him to gain more roles and
credibility as a performer in the future. Mirabel Verdu is absolutely
stunning as Miranda and gives off a "Sophia Loren" type elegance, a
role that rounds out the feeling that what we're experiencing is in
part truly a charming foreign film coming out of what was once a
mainstream filmmakers body.

Tetro is a testament to the fact that an artist can pick himself up
over the course of decades and learn from his failures as well as his
successes. Francis Ford Coppola's recent work is bold, daring and
symbolizes his true love for the medium. At its heart you can see that
the characters, story and attention to even the most minor of details
are shown so much love and care that they could only be executed by a
passionate and dedicated creative mind. My only regret after seeing
Tetro is that more people will turn down the opportunity to open their
eyes and experience it for themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
17 year-old Bennie works as a waiter on a cruiseship. When the ship
suffers engine difficulties and docks in Buenos Aires, he uses the
opportunity to attempt to reconnect with his estranged brother Tetro, a
once promising writer. He is welcomed with open arms by Tetro's
girlfriend, Miranda. She longs to know the truth behind her boyfriends
past and what made him the misanthrope he is today. Tetro is hostile
towards his brother, his plan was to never see any of his family again,
and so keeps him at arms length. Bennie discovers an incomplete play,
written in code whilst his brother was undergoing psychiatric
treatment. He decides to finish the play and enter it in a festival run
by Argentina's most powerful critic, Alone. Faced with this upheaval,
Tetro is forced to come to terms with his relationship to his younger
brother and his father, a famous conductor.

Tetro is, at its core, a film about family, in particular the
relationship between brothers and their Father. A theme Francis Ford
Coppola has immersed himself in before, most notably in The Godfather
and Rumble Fish. Through a series of flashbacks we are given a glimpse
of major events in Tetro's youth, his relationship with his father
(played by Klaus Brandauer) and his subsequent departure. There are
huge family secrets known only to Tetro and revealed to Bennie in an
ending which echoes great literary and operatic works. Coppolas love of
opera and theater is stamped all over the script and the city of Buenos
Aires seems to be the perfect background in which to set this story.

Shot stunningly in digital monochrome with colour flashbacks, it has
some aesthetic similarities to Rumble Fish. Coppola and cinematographer
Mihai Malaimare Jr. reportedly site On The Waterfront and La Notte as
big influences on the films visual style. There are certainly elements
of both here, with the film also retaining its visual sense of self. It
is operatic in both its narrative and its mise-en-scene. The idea of
cutting between colour and monochrome as well as changing aspect ratios
sounds as if it would be jarring, and it typically is. But for the
purposes of Tetro it works perfectly.

Seen as a controversial choice by some, Vincent Gallo brings an edge to
the titular character that some other actors may have lacked. However
it is newcomer Alden Ehrenreich who steals the show as Bennie, a
wayward teenager looking for guidance and approval. Maribel Verdu, as
Miranda, provides the conduit between the two in a typicaly solid
performance.

Hollywood is littered with once great directors who have fallen from
grace, which makes Tetro all the more remarkable as a return to form
from one of the greatest, Francis Ford Coppola.
<|_=00=_|>
When two estranged brothers are reunited in Buenos Aires a story
unfolds as truths are told, history revisited and the future rewritten.
Glorious in it's black and white, Francis Ford Coppola has woven
together a huge, operatic styled film with a beautiful, yet sad tale of
family at it's heart.

It is often breathtaking in it's imagery; light flickers across faces,
each frame looks exquisite and the camera places itself at angles that
give a entirely new perspective. Alden Ehrenrich is beautiful upon the
screen and portrays the younger brother Bennie wonderfully. Older
brother Tetro is aloof and almost mean and is actually well played by
Vincent Gallo. Another great performance is by Maribel Verdu as the
ever supportive woman in Tetro's life.

The story is immense, and the past is gradually revealed and usually
and at first oddly in contrasting colour. These flashbacks I found
annoying because they were in colour, yet as the film progresses a
touch of surrealism enters the film as flashbacks are told in colour
but also in the form of dance adding to the operatic, theatrical feel
the film gathers as it progresses. It is an amazing achievement, the
dance sequences are beautiful and sublime. As is the film's score, at
times the use of opera and classical pieces couldn't be more perfect
and add a wonderful sense of feeling to the film. I was so throughally
enraged by the film I could barely take my eye from the screen.

It is rare that I come away from a film, wanting to see it again, but
with Tetro I did. It is a film full of beauty, emotion and tragedy. One
that tells a great story and does so with great visual style. Brilliant
stuff More of my reviews at my site iheartfilms.weebly.com
<|_=00=_|>
I knew nothing about this film but went along to a private screening at
Cannes just last week.

I wasn't sure whether the black and white was going to last much past
the opening scenes, it did, and I feel it really helped this film
portray the contrast and the depression felt by the main character
Tetro.

The film slowly unravelled slowly, providing just enough snippets of
the bigger underlying story obviously hidden away in the past of the 2
brothers to keep you engaged. Played out against the backdrop of modern
day Argentina (it wasn't obvious when the period was until we get a
glimpse of a modern day car about 25 minutes in) We have Bennie the
young brother, visiting his manic depressive prospect playwright
brother and catching up on lost time together. However it's evident
from the start that the older brother, Tetro does not want to rekindle
any family ties for reasons that unfold during the film.

Bennie discovers the latent stories written by Tetro and attempts to
finish them in order for Tetro to be recognised for his brilliance,
something Tetro himself seems unwilling to do.

I love what Coppola has done here, I loved the character and the vibe
he set, particularly the little village theatre where Tetro worked and
where we see a gaudy and low budget production of Faust being
performed. We revisit this theatre for Bennie/Tetro's first play which
doesn't go well! The underlying story is all about the father of the
brothers, a top orchestral conductor who jumped on his far more
talented brothers back (Tetro's uncle)to become the most renown
conductor in New York. What then follows is his megalomaniacal fathers
disregard of his son and subsequent stealing of his sweetheart. Coupled
with the fact that Tetro was then responsible for his mothers death in
a car crash and his father never forgave him and you have the perfect
recipe for the depressive abyss that Tetro finds himself in at the
start of the film where we come in.

We see some beautiful flashback sequences, in colour to provide the
contrast to Tetro's mood, of past events but done in a theatrical
almost ballet style. The ones toward the end of the film are nothing
short of exquisite and really hammer home the depth of feeling.

The climax sees Bennie and Tetro finally rewarded by their peers at the
regional arts festival for their joint work but also forced to face up
to the ultimate family secret, one which I shan't give away here! The
signs for a big twist are apparent but exactly what that is may be
narrowed down but not apparent until it occurs in my opinion.

The actor who plays young Bennie has DeCaprio overtones and does bear a
physical resemblance, Gallo as Tetro is menacing yet feeble behind his
fake facade. Tetro's wife provided a perfect go between for the main
characters, not to mention turning in a brilliant performance! Jose the
cafe owner provides comic relief and 'Alone', the theatre critic is the
spectre of potential humiliation and failure that Tetro must overcome
and convince of his genius.

I loved this film and only gave it a 7 for the predictable ending which
was a bit over dramatic and clich√©d for what was otherwise a well acted
and nicely designed bit of cinema. The story is rich and the scenery
and sets are brilliant, particularly the Patagonian mountains.

KSE.
<|_=00=_|>
I can see a lot of connection between Copolla's 1983 Rumble Fish and
this 2009 Tetro. Firstly there's that same inky black monochrome that's
as dark as night and with the occasional splash of colour. Then,
there's the brotherly relationship, here between Vincent Gallo and
Alden Ehrenreich.

It's a while since I last watched Rumble Fish but the brothers there
were Mickey Rourke (a rare good film for him at that time) and Matt
Dillon. It's about street gangs and pool halls and how an older brother
can be very impressionistic on a younger sibling. I'll say no more,
except it's a blinder of a film and better than this.

I would have to say that the monochrome cinematography here, though,
that everybody drools over is just too dark and contrasty, for this
subject and film. I'm a photographer, so hopefully know and whilst
Rumble Fish looked superb, that was full of geometric angles and
angular paradoxes. Here, the screen is often plunged into almost
darkness much of the time.

There is a balletic beauty to much of it though and we veer away from
Rumble Fish and on to his works of epic greatness. The Godfathers and
Apocalypse Now all share with this, an operatic build up of artistic
and emotional tension that is mesmerising. Tetro has this toward the
end at the Festival and we start anticipating something big and great.
Do we get it? You'll have to see it yourself...

Others have touched on the actual storyline and I'm going to leave that
to them. That said, the cast are all good but oddly, Vincent Gallo, as
Tetro seems to short-change us. Not performance wise but in that we
just don't seem to get to know him, which is part of the whole story,
of course. Clamming up into a shell is nature's way of protecting us,
emotionally, which is what Tetro did - and still does.

One major plus to this, very bog-standard DVD, was the sound quality -
I 'felt' the sound as much as heard it. It prickled my eardrums with a
tactile clarity, certainly Hi-fi standard, plus. OK, it was through
separate amp and speakers but is as all my TV watching is.

Is Tetro a film for you? That's a difficult one. Art-house cinema
lovers probably will and those who like a drama that is quite complex
also but those who want action and something akin to Apocalypse Now,
no. It is long, visually rich and dark (like plain chocolate) and
accordingly, not for everybody but for those who do, it holds many
strengths.
