
This film was derivative of many other films including (Soldier,
Resident Evil), with little new in the way of plot. The immoral CIA
creates a program in which they are attempting to genetically create
the perfect soldier by fooling with the DNA of embryos. When the
experiment proves successful (huh..? Why shut down a successful
program..?) it is decided for unknown reasons to end the project and
terminate all those involved. Eric Bana, the CIA field agent who
recruited the women for the experiment has a change of heart and tries
to save one woman and her child. For no particular reason, except to
give Hanna a reason to want revenge later on, the mother is killed by
Kate Blanchett, and Eric Bana escapes with the infant. Bana raises
Hanna as his own in an "arctic" cabin without electricity or modern
conveniences, in order to prepare her for the day that she has to face
the CIA and their henchmen. The day finally arrives when Hanna decides
that she is ready. Bana digs up a transponder he had buried and places
it in front of Hanna quipping that once the switch is flipped it can't
be undone. Since there is no electricity in the cabin, and in fact
Hanna has never seen an electric light, the method by which Bana got a
battery to operate after over 14 years is never explained. Bana leaves
Hanna alone to be captured by the dastardly CIA operatives. He did this
apparently in order for Hanna to kill Kate Blanchett. Why he doesn't
take Hanna with him, instead of leaving her to be taken by the CIA is
left unexplained. Hanna is brought to an underground holding cell, the
size of the Superbowl, in Morocco.

Strangely, Morocco looks a lot like the desert southwest of the US.
Naturally, Hanna is more than a handful for the loutish CIA operatives
and manages to escape through the ubiquitous air-conditioning vents
which just happen to be her size. She makes her way to the surface, and
just as she is looking out of a vast desert vista in broad daylight,
Hummvees start driving directly over her head, apparently oblivious to
the fact that there is an open submarine door in their path. As the
last Hummvee passes the hole is shown as empty clearly showing that
Hanna has managed to take hold of the undercarriage of the last vehicle
as it passed at 50 mph, where she hangs on similar to Robert De Niro as
Max Cady in the 1991 film "Cape Fear". Too bad nobody told the director
about this same treatment by the "Simpsons" with Sideshow Bob. I'm sure
I'm not the only one surprised by the location of Morocco for this CIA
detention cell, instead of somewhere in the US. It becomes obvious
later on when Hanna has the opportunity to show off her dexterity with
languages, which wouldn't have come up in the US quite so easily. Also,
since it was decided by the Director to have the final fight scene in
an amusement park in Germany, the CIA detention center had to be
someplace from which Hanna could conceivably get to Germany, without a
passport or any ID.

At one point in the film Eric Bana picks up a post card at a post
office, apparently where they've been holding his mail for the past 14
years, and there's a postcard from Hanna telling him in code she has
killed Kate Blanchett, which is unfortunately incorrect. How she bought
the stamp, mailed the postcard, or knew which post office Bana would be
near is unexplained. The fact that all of this action takes place in a
matter of a few days, makes the idea that a post card can get from
Morocco or Spain to Germany in that amount of time laughable to anyone
who has lived overseas.

There are several editing or continuity errors, like when Hanna kills
the reindeer with a bow and arrow, but then guts a reindeer of
approximately half the size, and then brings the originally sized
reindeer home on a sleigh, apparently having made the sleigh from the
raw materials by hand.

The choice of where and when to use blood spatter effects is also
interesting. Hanna gets her face splashed when shooting people, and the
picture in front of grandma gets covered when Kate Blanchett kills her
(again for no reason), but the reindeer is remarkably without blood,
even though Hanna is in the process of gutting it.

If you can willingly suspend your disbelief for this film, then you
really have no disbelief to suspend.

The story is derivative, the characters are two dimensional and without
motivation, the lines are full of clichés, and the violence is
unrealistic. Eric Bana is supposed to be the Zen like trainer of Hanna,
but he can't seem to handle a Aryan Brotherhood with a knife. I suppose
12 year old girls will like the scene where Hanna flips a Spanish boy
who tries to kiss her, but her reactions were closer to that of someone
suffering from anti-social personality disorder than of a normal
teenager.

The fact that Hanna kills people for little or no reason would seem to
suggest that she is in fact meant to be characterized as a serial
killer, except that she announces to Eric Bana that she doesn't want to
hurt anyone anymore, when all she really needs to do is to stop hurting
people.

I found it disconcerting that Eric Bana had spent 14 or so years
training Hanna to kill everything that moves, when the CIA was unaware
of his or her actual existence. He could just as easily have changed
his name and raised Hanna on a ranch in Idaho or a tenement in the
South Bronx, but then there wouldn't have been as much of a story, as
such.
<|_=00=_|>
A 'different' movie. Bad storyline coupled with great direction /
camera / sound. Technically brilliant. The net result is quite
enjoyable. One does have to suspend disbelief to take in the gaps in
logic, but once you do that, it's a good ride.

The entire movie is in effect a large chase, and the direction has
brought about this element superbly. The camera work and sound kept me
glued.

There seems to be quite a few reviews that talk of all the gaps in
logic and reasoning in the movie. They are all true, but I found the
high levels of technical brilliance more than made up for it.

In the end, not a 'great' movie, but one that I nevertheless quite
enjoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
Contains spoilers: This film, Hanna, was god-awful. I was angry when I
left the theatre after ruining my afternoon watching a film with such a
stupid, faulty plot. There are just too many mistakes and holes. Hanna
is a 16 year old ANOREXIC-LOOKING supposed genetic super human. Right
away you know the casting is all wrong. She looks so weak. Sometimes
she kills commandos immediately, and then other times she fights with
skin-head caricatures for hours it seems. Silly stuff. To view this
film's comments, use the "hated it" filter. I think the film's cast and
backers shamelessly used IMDb.com for their selfish, untrue, and
dishonest promotion of the film. No one with half a brain would
recommend this film. There are plot holes which should anger you. Also,
we are never told why she has to die or why the skinny little girl is a
threat to US security. Why does she look longingly, lesbian-like into
her new friend's eyes as they are lying in bed together? What happens
to that girl and her family? We are not told. What did her
foster-father ever do to deserve such treatment from her at the end? He
then sacrifices his life for her! She has knowledge of everything in
the world, but acts like one of the Beverly Hillbillies when it comes
to turning on a light or using electric appliances, but then she just
walks into a computer/coffee café and goes online. This is one of the
dumbest films of all time. I was just so angry to have wasted my time
and money on this film that was rated so highly on IMDb. Why does this
film deserve a 7.7 rating? 7.7 Oh, please. Something is really, really
wrong with the ratings system if this can happen.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read some of the more negative reviews on this site, all I can
say is that they all seem to have the same complaint in common. Namely,
non-acceptance of certain plot contrivances. 

So let me say straight off: if you are the sort of person who didn't
like Inception because it made no sense, or the sort of person who
didn't like The Matrix Trilogy because it made no sense, or indeed the
sort of person who didn't like any of David Lynch's films because
(ahem) NONE OF THEM MAKE ANY SENSE...in short, if you are an incurable
pedant, you will not enjoy this film and you might as well stop reading
this review. Seriously, stop reading, don't watch the film and go
calculate Pi or something.

If, however, you have an appreciation for tightly-edited, emotionally
engaging, aesthetically pleasing cinema with a brilliant soundtrack and
at times breathless pacing, please allow me to take a few minutes of
your time.

Hanna is the story of a teenage girl who lives in total isolation with
her father. She has vague memories of her mother, and these memories,
combined with her (literally) encyclopedic knowledge fuel her desire to
leave the relative safety of her father's protection in the frozen
hinterland of northern Finland.

In a way, I don't want to say any more than that. If you've read the
other reviews on this site that give away more, then I'm very sorry for
you, but if not then suffice it to say that her father's motivation for
keeping her in this state of isolation appears to be protection,
combined with a desire to train her in survival/assassination skills,
in preparation for...well that would be telling. 

Of course, you don't need me to tell you that she leaves her father's
protection and the story proper begins. As Chekov said "One must not
put a loaded rifle on the stage if no-one is thinking of using it" and
boy, does that rifle get used. 

Saoirse Ronan is brilliant as Hanna. At times seemingly invincible, at
others pathetically vulnerable, owing to her complete inexperience of
the world. We see the world from her unique perspective as she
struggles to understand non-familiar interaction, the natural ease of
recreation and even the basic electrical appliances that we all take
for granted.

The story moves us from one location to the next, painting a rich
tapestry of colour and culture, whilst simultaneously (and somewhat
comically) contrasting Hanna's desperate need to traverse these
territories with the bourgeoisie's seeming obsession with
"experiencing" as many of them as possible.

The acting is solid throughout. The only truly great performance comes
from Ronan, but Tom Hollander, Cate Blanchett and Eric Bana all turn
out good performances that serve the picture well.

However the true credit for this film has to be laid at the feet of Joe
Wright. None of his previous films could possibly prepare you for
Hanna. Wright's mastery of both a tight, intricate plot such as in
Atonement, combined with his incredible skill in making this beautiful,
thoughtful, action-packed coming of age story mark him out as a
director of real class.

It is true that Hanna suffers from a few plot holes, but that plot is
delivered in such an appealing, exciting and above-all entertaining
film that anyone who isn't compiling continuity errors for some
god-awful TV programme that relishes in the fact that THIS ISN'T REAL
LIFE, IT'S ACTUALLY ONLY A FILM!! should have a blast letting this film
take them along for the ride. 

If you want reality, watch a documentary. If you want a very good
fiction, watch Hanna.
<|_=00=_|>
Hanna felt like The Little Engine That Could right from the start. When
the trailer first started being shown in theaters, it looked to have
potential while featuring a solid cast. But it felt like a smaller film
that would leave a big impact once you finally got around to seeing it.
There were a few things working against the film. I'm fairly certain
that the only film of Joe Wright's that I've actually had the
opportunity to sit down and watch is The Soloist. Despite being
enjoyable, its weak online reputation along with movie critics less
than stellar ratings and reviews imply that the film missed its mark.
Speaking of missing its mark, Saoirse Ronan was also in Peter Jackson's
The Lovely Bones which couldn't really decide what type of film to be
and was more than a little disappointing overall. Luckily, Hanna
doesn't suffer that same fate and we're actually given a film that is
much stronger than it lets on.

Hanna really utilizes the two senses you use most while watching a
movie to their maximum potential. The beautiful cinematography is done
in a way that let's you see things in a completely different light.
There's a fairly wide contrast in scenery in the film; everything from
the wooded forest to the dry, desolate desert to big cities to
playgrounds and parks. Whether it's a cabin being covered by snow out
in the middle of a Finnish forest, an expanding look at the rocky and
seemingly endless desert floor, or just admiring the several sunsets
utilized throughout the film to bridge one scene to the next, the
camera work in Hanna is something that should definitely catch your
eye.

While we're on the subject of camera work, there are quite a few
intriguing perspective techniques used in Hanna as well. Some of the
most noteworthy scenes in the film are one-take or long-take sequences
meaning no cutaways or chances to do it again without starting from the
beginning. The best example is a scene involving Erik (Eric Bana) where
he gets off a bus and is being tailed by four agents sent by Marissa
Wiegler (Cate Blanchett). The way that scene is filmed along with its
climax is just spectacular. That same technique is used several times
throughout the film and seems to make something simple like a chase
through a junkyard way more entertaining than if it was filmed
differently. Another interesting shot is when Erik finds Marissa in her
hotel room. A battle of bullets breaks out as we look through one of
the bullet holes to see Erik kicking the door in. Good stuff right
there, boys and girls. Good stuff indeed.

The other sense that's capitalized upon is what the film allows you to
hear. Hanna features an original score by The Chemical Brothers and it
doesn't disappoint. I'm not exactly a big fan of house music, techno,
trip hop, or any music genre of that nature, but there's something
about this soundtrack that adds something a different genre or artist
probably wouldn't have been able to capture if they had been fortunate
enough to do this soundtrack instead. Those beats and that electronic
sound may not sound like they should be a part of a film like this, but
it's an essential part of the film that makes the chase scenes
involving Hanna more suspenseful and it's practically impossible to
imagine Tom Hollander's "sandman" scene without that creepy bell-heavy
lullaby. Truth be told, the Hanna soundtrack is every bit as good as
the TRON: Legacy soundtrack.

The action thriller has a fantastic way of coming full circle. The
beginning and end come together in a way that feels similar, but is
done in a satisfying way that makes the storyline feel complete. Hanna
actually has a little bit of humor hidden in its depths, as well. Most
of it involves Sophie (Jessica Barden) in some capacity. The "three
bullets" scene is the first that comes to mind. The entire theater
seemed to be in an uproar over that one.

The one thing that didn't seem to click with Hanna was the editing.
It's like the editor became incredibly overzealous being in possession
of a soundtrack by the Chemical Brothers and certain scenes seemed more
complicated than necessary. Hanna's (Saoirse Ronan) escape from holding
was the scene that brought this theory to light. Flashing lights and
scenes of Hanna running episode down along with multiple shots of her
face in one frame just made the entire scene feel like an epileptic's
nightmare.

Hanna is a fantastically paced action thriller that features strong
performances from a powerful cast and a storyline that's rounded out in
the best of ways. Eric Bana nearly steals the show at times while you
may want to kill Cate Blanchett at other times for her Texan accent
alone, but Saoirse Ronan puts in a performance that may be the best of
her career thus far. Top it off with a spectacular soundtrack from The
Chemical Brothers, and Hanna becomes one of the first must-see films of
the year that is both intelligent and features
slap-the-taste-out-of-your-mouth action.
<|_=00=_|>
A friend got me tickets to an advance screening, telling me it was a
spy thriller with Eric Bana and Cate Blanchett. I hadn't seen a trailer
and was expecting something along the lines of Mission Impossible. Was
I wrong.

I'm not great at doing reviews, but I feel I need to say something
about this amazing movie! During it, I was very aware at how engrossed
I was, hanging on every scene. It was visually stunning - some of the
scenes or transitions between them were so beautiful. The title "HANNA"
on the screen reminded me a lot of Kill Bill. In fact, I felt Saoirse
Ronan's Hanna is a teenage version of The Bride from Kill Bill and
Leeloo from The Fifth Element.

I've seen Cate Blanchett in a couple of movies, but was impressed by
her portrayal of a ruthless agent. I hate to say that Eric Bana's
character (Erik) was "almost" forgettable - in the end, the movie was
really not about him. But he did show up once wet and without much
clothing and that was just fine by me.

I am not a fan of violence (and Tarantino's bugs me a lot), but I was
OK with the quantity and visibility of it in this movie. Fans of Kill
Bill should enjoy Hanna.
<|_=00=_|>
Hannah is a wholly unexpected, but entirely enjoyable film. However,
this is not the all out, balls to the wall action film the trailer
might suggest. There is a high art house value to the film, and it
takes it's time letting you get to know the characters, most notably
the titular character Hannah, as she explores the world for the first
time. What we have is the kind of action film that comes around every
once in a while that values it's characters, but also demonstrates some
great action pieces.

Hannah tells the story of the 16 year old girl who, after living her
whole life in the woods, is set upon the world. At the same time, her
release into the world sets in motion a man hunt by a CIA agent with
her own agenda. I've read many comments comparing this to Kick Ass, and
I couldn't figure it out for the life of me. While these two films
share loose ingredients, they are wholly different films, with Hannah
arguably the superior film. 

Beautifully shot and fantastic all the way around, the film elevates
itself to art by successfully balancing Bourne-style action and a
beautiful coming of age story. Through the film, we see the world as
Hannah sees it, with a sense of wonder and beauty, but also a sense of
confusion. Sound is used to great effect to depict this as well, and I
will be very disappointed if this film doesn't get nominated for every
sound award next year. The cast and talent behind the film also help to
elevate it above the standard pic. Particularly Joe Wright, who treads
into different territory, but nonetheless proves that he is an
extremely versatile director. Saoirse Ronan also excels as the lead
here, playing up the hardened, but vulnerable character. It's not an
easy role to fill the shoes of, with both a physical and emotional
demand on the characters, but in Wright's hands, Saoirse nails it.

While the film does have moments of drag here and there, even these
moments are filled with something visually or audibly interesting. If
it's not the Chemical Brother's fantastic soundtrack or a unique shot
here and there, it's the stylish editing and unique focus. I will say
that this won't be for everyone. This is not a film that's constant
action and it does have an independent quality to it. But for those
that take the journey, you'll find a very rewarding film here that
succeeds where many action films don't. I'll even go so far as to say
that this is my favorite film of 2011 so far.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers: See first! First off, what's with these so called expert
killers Kate brings into the mix to get the girl? There fat, out of
shape and more like clockwork orange hoodlums, that couldn't win a bar
fight let alone beat a superior, fighting hybrid! If all the hybrids
(for a lack of a better word) had to be 'terminated' and Hanna was the
last left, think about this..., here's Kate keeping up with her, in
heels! chasing her and Hanna was not able to put distance between them?
The point is: If that's all the hybrid can do, WHY does the U.S. have
to see her dead? (Obviously, she's not all that bloody superior if that
old, British broad is out thinking her! And how do the clockwork orange
goons ever find her in Morrocco? Was that the ONLY seedy, little joint
in the whole country that the lugs somehow knew that's the one she'd be
at? Give me a break.

Why doesn't it reveal whether the British couple and their kids were
killed or not? Anyone who can jump onto an undercarriage of a Humvee
while traveling over them at speed is frankly, CARTOON! And WHY does
Eric, after waiting 13-years in hiding near the Arctic Circle, with a
beard and long hair, suddenly cut his hair/have to look...EXACTLY like
his file photos, to be instantly recognizable when he leaves the
forest? Senseless. And oh BTW, he leaves in suit in sub zero temps.
Hello~

What in the world were Kate's gums bleeding for? It has nothing to do
with the plot at all! When Eric fights the 3 guys in the vacant space,
when the thugs after incredible hesitations, finally do decide to fire
their weapon, Eric had time to through one of them into the line of
fire and throwing a knife to kill the gunmen. To coin a classic line
from Eli Wallach about clowns just like these losers..., "If you're
going to shoot...SHOOT. Don't talk!" Great acting by Hanna, for sure!
<|_=00=_|>
Once upon a time, there was a little girl called Hanna (Saoirse Ronan),
who was raised in a forest by her father Erik (Eric Bana). As an ex-CIA
agent, Erik taught Hanna everything she needed: hunting, armed and
unarmed combat, and all the languages in the world. One day, Hanna was
sent out of the forest to assassinate Marissa Wiegler (Cate Blanchett),
the woman who murdered her mother.

Joe Wright's latest feature is modern-day fairy-tale that is part
revenge-flick, part coming- of-age drama. Like his last effort, 'The
Soloist', 'Hanna' has some very good ideas that are let down by bad
decisions and occasionally over-powering direction. 

The film certainly has a very strong beginning. The concept of a killer
child may be screwed- up, but this is offset by the curiosity it
arouses. Why has Erik raised Hanna in this manner? Who is this woman
they want to kill, and why did she become their enemy?

The storytelling is tight, intentionally drip-fed, which keeps the
focus on the moment and makes the assassination plan more dramatic.
Well, for the first 45 minutes. After that, Hanna sees the wider world
for the first time and becomes distracted  which is both good and bad.

On one hand, it allows some insight into the effects of Hanna's
blinkered upbringing. Having grown up killing her own breakfast and
making her own fire, she is not prepared for her journey through the
modern world. Seeing her flick light switches on and off in awe is one
of several touching moments, which add a human side to what could have
become another soulless gun movie.

However, Wright doesn't know when to pull back on the sentimentality.
The film hits its low point when Hanna hitches a ride with a stuck-up
English hippy family, which is meant to contrast the lonely, limited
nature of Hanna's upbringing. Ironically, this family is even more
dysfunctional than Hanna and Erik, and only succeeds in making Hanna's
journey more irrelevant.

Her meticulous plan somehow becomes self-indulgent faux-art, featuring
slow-motion Flamenco dancing. The film goes so off-course that it is
questionable whether there was a plan in the first place. Is the story
intentionally drip-fed, or is there just not very much to tell? For a
child raised specifically to kill, Hanna doesn't end up doing very
much.

That's not to say that there isn't any action. There are a handful of
set pieces, and they are a delight to behold. From a fight in a subway
to a chase through a labyrinthine cargo yard, the action is wonderfully
shot and expertly edited. Long, tracking shots allow for a high level
of clarity and immersion. Even this, however, is sometimes ruined with
over-energetic camera-work, turning the film into a music video.

Saoirse Ronan is a good action star, throwing herself into her fight
scenes with zeal, but her real strength is her acting. On one hand she
seems so genuinely lethal that it's a little scary. At the same time,
she has a delicate, innocent aura that makes it hard not to feel sorry
for her. This is a layered performance that transcends the generic
labelling of 'good' or 'evil'.

'Hanna' is not flawed, but sabotaged. Ronan is superb, and the action
is fantastic, but even this is not enough to put the film back on
course after Joe Wright steered it in the wrong direction. It started
off as a good film, but ended up as a handful of good ideas, poorly
strung together.
<|_=00=_|>
What is Hanna? it certainly isn't what I thought it'd be. At all.
Chances are it isn't like anything you've seen before. Weird, wild and
beautiful, it's Jason Bourne by way of the Brothers Grimm, David Lynch
by way of Hans Christian Andersen, Luc Besson and Tom Tykwer by way of
huntsmen, evil witches and big, bad wolves. It doesn't hesitate, it
hurtles along. It doesn't flinch, it charges. It prowls and pounces,
haunts and disarms. It has a pulse, a heartbeat, a rhythm. It roars. It
cackles. It sings a lullaby. It hums. It whistles. And, really, you
should stop reading right there. The joy is in the discovery, as they
say, and Hanna is best served with as few expectations as possible.
Whether you ultimately find it baffling or bewitching is, frankly,
beside the point. It's well worth watching -- experiencing, rather --
and you'll be hard- pressed to deny the thrill of such a bizarre,
breathtaking ride. 

Once upon a time there was a very special girl named Hanna Heller
(Saoirse Ronan). Since she was two-years-old, Hanna has lived in the
secluded forests of Finland with her father, Erik (Eric Bana). There,
she's learned to survive, hunt, fight... and kill. When she turns
sixteen, her father decides she's ready to hear the truth and to be
presented with a choice: continue living in seclusion or flip a switch
on a dormant tracking device and alert a vindictive CIA chief, Marissa
Wiegler (Cate Blanchett), to her whereabouts. It seems Marissa has been
searching for Erik and Hanna since she failed to assassinate the pair
fourteen years ago, and Hanna is all too anxious to meet the woman who
murdered her mother and sent her father into hiding. The choice is
simpler than Erik had hoped. Hanna flips the switch the moment he steps
away from the cabin. And then? Then all hell breaks loose. Hanna,
captured and taken to a CIA facility in Morocco, kills a woman she
believes is Wiegler, steals intel about her true origins, escapes into
the desert and hitches a ride with a family of tourists bound for
Germany, where she plans to rendezvous with her father. But she'll have
to stay one step ahead of Marissa in a strange, alien world of
television, traffic and the internet, and dodge the CIA witch's fiends,
led by the maniacal Isaacs (Tom Hollander).

Hanna leaps over vast genre chasms with the grace of the fully realized
dark-fantasy, action- thriller hybrid it is. Director Joe Wright has
created something so wholly in tune with his vision, so true to its own
delirious delights and hard-hitting flights of fancy that it floats
high above the Hollywood fray. It begins simply enough, explodes soon
thereafter, and then slowly reveals its secrets and intentions with
meticulous precision, descending into increasingly offbeat, grotesque
territory only after enchanting viewers with its siren call. Wright
pushes, sure. But he knows exactly how much to push his audience at any
given moment. He challenges convention, but knows just how much
pressure to apply. He demands a lot of those watching the film for the
first time, but never more than they should be able to bear. (And Hanna
is even better on repeat viewings.) His mad-hatter action opera doesn't
overwhelm or overreach; it hypnotizes, mesmerizes and casts a spell
with fierce fist fights, coming-of-age tenderness, cruel villains,
audaciously long tracking shots (complete with brawls sans cutaways or
cheap edits), dazzling photography, and organic electronica (from The
Chemical Brothers, no less). 

Ronan doesn't buckle beneath the weight of Hanna or Hanna, and
approaches every scene with the same killer instinct her adolescent
assassin approaches an assailant. Wright and Ronan seem acutely aware
of how easily the film could plummet over the edge and adapt (or die)
accordingly, creating a young protagonist both beyond her years and
subject to childlike awe. (Hanna squeals with girlish excitement at the
sight of a passing plane mere moments after gutting a deer and battling
her father on a frozen lake.) Elsewhere, Blanchett gobbles down
helpless scenes with toothy vehemence and devilish zeal (she's the
Wicked Stepmother, the Foul Enchantress and the Evil Queen), Hollander
licks his deranged chops and bears his fangs with sick pleasure, and
Bana brandishes his best Bana -- the somber but soulful soldier -- and
lends balance to an eccentric ensemble. The travelers Hanna joins -- a
family played with flaky bohemian funk by Jason Flemyng, Olivia
Williams and kinetic ball of energy Jessica Barden -- may be the straw
that crack some filmfans' backs, but their presence is only jarring
initially and only the first time through. Further viewings (and a bit
of patience) illuminate their true purpose -- no wandering fairy tale
princess would be complete without a band of quirky creatures and
peculiar new friends, be they dwarfs, talking forest denizens or free-
spirited European hippies -- and make them every bit as essential to
Hanna as anything else. It's through her temporary surrogate family
that she learns things her father neglected to teach her, for reasons
that become painfully clear as the film nears its endgame.

But not everyone will be so forgiving. Hanna is a divisive genre-bender
that will infuriate as many cinephiles as it entrances. Even if you and
I typically see eye to eye, we may not this time around. Wright's
fourth feature film defies expectation and explanation, and must be
seen to be believed. It may not ensnare you, but it'll sink its claws
in for two spellbinding hours. Hanna will probably make its way onto my
Top Ten list this year, and it will undoubtedly find its way onto some
of your lists as well, albeit as one of the Worst Films of 2011. You'll
just have to brave its dark, demented forests to find out.
