
Green Zone is the latest Iraq War inspired motion picture. I wasn't
expecting much and ended up being pleasantly surprised. It's a fast
paced and riveting ride from the get-go. The war being fought in the
film is more between the Pentagon and the CIA than the US v Iraq which
makes it all the more interesting and the film allows you to see things
from Iraq's perspective for a change. The premise set up in the film
regarding the 'Intelligence' regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction used
to justify the invasion is entirely believable. Matt Damon is well
suited to his part as a unit leader Roy Miller, as is Brendan Gleeson
as the CIA man and Greg Kinnear is refreshingly nasty as Poundstone
from the Pentagon - all turn in good performances. Shot on location in
Morocco, Spain and in England I could have sworn we were in Bagdad the
whole time - settings are very convincing. Yes, there is too much hand-
held camera movement that quickly brought on discomfort followed by a
headache but that is my only negative and as the film doesn't outstay
its welcome I'm willing to concede the shakiness probably lends an
'embedded' realism. Is any of the plot or characters based on real
events or people? I have no idea other than learning the film is based
on the 2006 non-fiction book 'Imperial Life in the Emerald City' by
Rajiv Chandrasekaran, a journalist for The Washington Post. I haven't
read the book so I can't comment on how closely the film follows it. I
spent a few moments of the film wondering about the story's
authenticity but as a piece of cinema entertainment in its own right
Green Zone gets the green light from me.
<|_=00=_|>
I always find it slightly comical when people complain of hand-held
camera-work. It reminds me of an old woman hearing The Chemical
Brothers and wincing in pain  "They don't really call that music do
they?" Personally, my eyes have been able to follow a moving object
ever since I was a child. I have no problem with a hand-held camera.

As for the movie, 'Green Zone' is an excellent action thriller about a
US Army Warrant Officer investigating the shady reasons why the
military intelligence being fed to the Iraq Survey Group is failing to
uncover weapons of mass destruction in post-invasion Baghdad. Much of
the ensuing shenanigans are inspired by the findings of both the Iraq
Intelligence Commission Report and the UK's Butler Review, which in
2004 found that pre-war intelligence had been highly suspect.

I say 'inspired' because 'Green Zone' is fictionunless I blinked and
missed it, there's no opening title card claiming "based on a true
story". Conservatives, so often unable to discern fact from fiction,
will view the film as a piece of docudrama reportage and find it deeply
flawed, as it would be if it purported to be such a thing. The rest of
us will recognize that Greengrass has crafted an excellent conspiracy
thriller that simply uses the controversial politics of post-war Iraq
as background color, and does so very well. As is to be expected from a
director who, at this point in his career, can do this stuff in his
sleep, the action sequences are brilliantly choreographed, the tension
masterfully built, and the characters multi-layered. The cinematography
that others have called "ugly" I found added a sense of realism,
particularly in the grainy night scenes. My only complaint is a couple
of instances in which Iraqi characters begin spouting embarrassing
soap-box polemic. It isn't that such thoughts are out of character,
just the way they are expressed; the dialogue being too obvious and
cheesy. Thankfully, such moments can be counted in seconds rather than
minutes. What's so impressive about 'Green Zone' is the seemingly
authentic locations. It really does look as though it were filmed in
Baghdad. Instead, it was shot on location in England and Spain. A
production designer hasn't worked such magic since 'Full Metal Jacket'
converted a London parking lot into the battlefields of Vietnam.

'Green Zone' is an excellent movie that will be thoroughly enjoyed by
fans of political conspiracy thrillers. It isn't presented as factual,
and only fools would look to a movie for facts. For facts, read books
or, better yet, read the Iraq Intelligence Commission Report and the
Butler Review. But don't blame Paul Greengrass for your laziness and
stupidity in mistaking his excellent movie for a representation of
'truth'.
<|_=00=_|>
British director Paul Grengrass + American actor Matt Damon = "The
Bourne Supremacy", "The Bourne Ultimatum" and now "Green Zone", so we
know what to expect here - and we're not disappointed. From the opening
seconds, we're into the action with the trademark Greengrass 'in the
action' frenetic camera-work and sharp editing. Although the film is
said to be inspired by the non-fiction book "Imperial Life In The
Emerald City" by Rajiv Chandrasekaran, a journalist for The Washington
Post, the conspiratorial storyline is the invention of Greengrass who
developed the original script.

If the tension isn't as excruciating at that other Iraq movie "The Hurt
Locker", at least "Green Zone" has a narrative and poses some
questions, hard questions that many American viewers would probably
were rather not aired: what was the source of the 'intelligence' that
Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction? why was the
source so readily believed when the evidence was so thin? could the
bloody insurgency which followed the relatively easy initial occupation
have been avoided if the Americans had been willing to work with
elements of the Iraqi army? 

See the movie and think about the issues. As a central Iraqi character
puts it: "It's not up to you to determine what happens in this
country."
<|_=00=_|>
The Green Zone is that rarest of filmsa well-written, rousing action
thriller with a political conscience that perceptively deconstructs the
idiocy of war. From the very first scene, the action grabs you and
throttles you for the ensuing two hoursalthough the story is fairly
complex, the exposition is handled deftly, anddespite the constantly
jolting camera workit's pretty easy to follow along with what's
happening. Matt Damon delivers a strong performance as an Army Warrant
Officer who truly cares about the justifications for his actionshe has
no problem being a good soldier, as long as he knows that there are
clear moral reasons behind what he's been ordered to do. Unfortunately,
during the early days of the Iraq War, clear moral reasons were in very
short supply, and Damon's character battles an array of competing
military and political agendas as he searches for the truth behind the
military's search for the ever-elusive Weapons of Mass Destruction
rumored to be hidden in Iraq. This film is so well done, and Damon is
so good in it, that I'm starting to consider the Greengrass/Damon
tandem on a par with the Scorsese/DeNiro and Scorsese/DiCaprio
pairings. Damon's best work (the last two Bourne films and this one)
has come with Greengrass at the helmhere's to hoping they make many
more fine films together.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw trailers for this movie on t.v (in Australia)...it seemed to be
an action hero type movie...I actually wondered if this was the new
"Bourne" movie for Matt Damon! Perhaps this promotional approach was
due to a recent run of movies critical of the US in the current Iraq
war being box-office misses. Anyway, I was prepared to watch the movie
based on the trailers, but had second thoughts when the nature of the
movie was mentioned on a movie review show on TV here in Australia.
That nature concerned the movie venturing into the rationale of the US
invasion of Iraq in 2003.

So, taking a punt, I saw the movie armed with this new information.
It's actually good...not depressing like movies with this type of theme
can be. Not sure how much reality there is to it...it seems to cover
the bases on the reasons given as to why the US invaded Iraq and the
underlying reality on the ground.

What's particularly interesting is how the Pentagon and the C.I.A. are
depicted. No doubt there are numerous American movies where both
organisations are depicted as suspect or evil. Here, one organisation
comes off as acting in good faith and acting morally. Don't know enough
about the war to say for certain if any US organisation can claim to
have acted ethically, but this dichotomy is illuminating for the
factoids it throws at the audience.

If the movie does have a lot factual truth to it, then some of the
events in it are truly disturbing...e.g. how the U.S. deals with people
who may be able to disprove the official government line on the reasons
for the war. Maybe this is just artistic license, or perhaps it's real
politic as far as the U.S. goes...and anyone who has read Noam Chomsky
knows that the U.S. goes all the way.

I'm reminded of General Colin Powell's hand-on-the-heart moment in the
U.N. where he showed satellite photos of vehicles and swore that these
were mobile weapons of mass destruction delivery vehicles. Turns out
that they were milk trucks...like the Iraqis said they were. It's this
'evidence' which convinced a reluctant U.N. to take the US' assertions
as true and to authorise the invasion of Iraq. This movie's trailer is
like General Colin Powell's moment of infamy...the trailer bears no
relation to what you actually see. But it's more compelling than what
the general's photo turned out to be.

Matt Damon (as Chief Warrant Officer Roy Miller) makes for a good
lantern-jaw type hero...if such a figure actually exists, you'd think
they would have have been run out of the ranks for not towing the
official line. Anyway, the movie is about Miller's role in finding
those elusive weapons of mass destruction that President Bush assured
us were there. When he doesn't have much luck finding them, he wants to
find out why...
<|_=00=_|>
One of the common threads linking films about the Iraq war is a sense
of deep ambiguity about it's morality and purpose. "Green Zone" is no
exception. Matt Damon skilfully portrays Roy Miller, an Army Warrant
Officer whose unit is tasked with searching suspected WMD facilities
for proof of the existence of Iraqi chemical, nuclear, and biological
weapons. A chance encounter with a sympathetic Iraqi civilian puts
Miller on the trail of an Iraqi general who could provide him with the
evidence that he needs. However, the Pentagon, the recently deposed
Baathists, and the CIA all have different agendas for Iraq's future and
Miller finds himself being used by players from all sides.

This is a tautly paced, engrossing thriller that inhabits a moral world
where all colors are shades of gray. The cast are excellent and the
direction is top-notch. Particularly noteworthy is the realistic and
sympathetic depiction of the Iraqi characters, irrespective of their
allegiances. There is no shortage of action and the plot keeps you
guessing until the credits roll. Along with "The Hurt Locker" this is
one of the best films about the Iraq war and a brilliant night out to
boot.
<|_=00=_|>
Green Zone is a film that deafly navigates the possibly disastrous path
of action saturation, creative liberties and touchy subject matter.
Matt Damon's and director Paul Greengrass' third effort after The
Bourne Supremacy and The Bourne Ultimatum tells the fictionalized but
accurate account of the span following the opening siege of Iraq, where
the supposed WMD program of Saddam Hussein failed to unveil itself.
Green Zone will keep those looking for a sharp action-war film
entertained and enrapture those interested in the politically charged
events of the war without alienating either group.

This may not be the hard hitting expose for which some may be yearning,
but it is all we could hope for in a mainstream Hollywood product.
Greengrass is certainly no stranger to the events surrounding Iraq,
having already helmed the highly touted United 93 which tells the story
of one of the doomed planes on September 11th of 2001. His obvious
passion for the subject gives Green Zone the gravitas and grounding a
film like this needs and with the exception of multi-Oscar winner The
Hurt Locker and Ridley Scott's Middle Eastern thriller Body of Lies
this is the strongest of the growing glut of such movies.

Damon stars as Roy Miller, a chief warrant officer who is at the
forefront for the search of WMD sites, all of which were gathered from
a mysterious source known only as 'Magellan'. When site after site
turns up empty, Miller begins to ask questions that high ranking
officials do not want asked. With seemingly his only friend in all
this, Marin Brown (Brendan Gleeson) a veteran CIA operative, and an
Iraqi interpreter named Freddy, Miller goes rogue to uncover the truth.
Standing in his way are the remaining loyal insurgents, a Whitehouse
bureaucrat named Poundstone (Greg Kinnear) who wants to keep things on
track and his asset on the ground who is tasked with stopping Miller's
inquiries.

Matt Damon is extremely solid here. He has no weepy dramatic scenes or
big blow-ups through which to act showy. He is very believable and low
key and is an infinitely charismatic and commanding presence on screen.
Kinnear is also quite good as the slimy suit that stands in the way of
our hero and the lesser know supporting cast all drive home noteworthy
performances as well. Much has been said about Greengrass' hand-held
camera technique which seems to leave some on the nauseous side. I have
however, come up with a theory in light of all the critics starting to
get on my nerves and actually managing to turn my attention to the so
called shaky cam, which has never before bothered me.

Take for example film critic James Berardinelli who seems to be on the
line when it comes to that style of shooting. For the latter two Bourne
films, he made ample criticism of the shaky cam and it would seem that
his overall consensus reflected such. For Green Zone he claimed the
vibration was far more restrained, which is in contrast to most other
critics who claimed it was the worst yet. My theory? One's perception
of the film is not due to the camera movement, but rather the inverse.
Depending on how engrossed a person is with the material, performances
etc that is how watchable they perceive the film to be. So in the case
of Berardinelli, the camera movement was likely fairly similar, but he
found Green Zone's material simply better.

Cinematography aside, Green Zone is a rousing action film with a
spectacular climax. Not only will it keep you entertained on a Friday
night, but it will serve as a reminder of what happened in Iraq every
time you press play.

Read all my reviews at simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
Feel like seeing an action flick, watching bodies fly everywhere, and
good guys kill bad guys? Do not see this movie.

Green Zone was a very surprising experience for me. I was on the way to
the cinema expecting, as several posters quoted, 'Born goes epic'.
Instead, I got a nice combination of politics, moral dilemmas, and
maybe even some very light philosophy.

The film takes a popular, but still a controversial & for many people
shameful, view on the Iraq war. The plot is complex but relatively easy
to follow thanks to a(sometimes too) straight-forward set up, good
directing, and sensible scene sequences. The plot does not bring you
any traditional action flick twists and rarely pushes you to the edge
of the seat, but makes up for it by making you think about some of the
more real and worrying aspects of war and politics. The characters
could have used some more development and dynamic, but on the bright
side it was nice to not have every single thing rotate around Bourne.
On the contrary, throughout the whole movie the focus was on a wider
picture rather than on any of the more specific details in the story
itself. It was nice to see the lines between bad & good drawn in such a
blurry manner. I was confused and indecisive in labelling characters as
on the goody or the baddie side. The plot had an interesting ending,
slightly ruined by a cheesy line from one of the characters, but
brilliantly made up for by a fantastic scene of Baghdad at night. I
found that whilst the epilogue of the movie was needed to explain
consequences, something like a few sentences appearing on a black
screen would have finished the movie in a much nicer mood than that in
which it finished in reality. The plot took up an intellectual
viewpoint on the Iraq war and gave me something to think about on the
subject of both the Iraq war and the idea of war in general. This was
something that you rarely see in movies like this, and made the movie
the enjoyable experience that it is.

The directing & cinematography in the movie were nothing special.
Several style ideas were re-used from the Bourne movies, and action was
not always as gripping as one might want, or at least expect. However,
it was never bad either - all sequences kept a consistent standard of
dialogue, special effects, and the little action that there was.

The acting in the movie was one of the few things that I expected. Matt
Damon delivered his usual performance: a cool, in-control soldier
committed to get to the bottom of things. The supporting actors all
delivered their parts well enough, with Greg Kinnear holding his usual
cunning, conniving, corrupt, money-thirsty politician role. However,
because, as mentioned before, the film focused on a wider picture, the
acting did not put me off the movie in any way whatsoever. The one
other thing which the movie lacked almost entirely throughout was
humour. It's always nice to get a giggle in between moral implications
and people dying all over the place.

I have given the movie 7 out of 10 in total, with seven points for
wider plot depth, intellectual aspects, directing & cinematography, CGI
& special effects, and the last three points deduced for acting,
immediate plot depth, action sequences, and humour, or rather the lack
of it. It's a pleasant and original surprise, and something that will
make you think after leaving the cinema.

MK
<|_=00=_|>
The new offering from Paul Greengrass is an intriguing progression from
his previous films. Marrying the political engagement of films such as
'Bloody Sunday' with the blockbuster attraction of the Bourne films,
'Green Zone' was always going to promise attractive viewing, and it
doesn't disappoint.

Matt Damon's character, Chief Warrant Officer Roy Miller, is in charge
of an American Armed Forces unit in search of Weapons of Mass
Destruction during the early stages of the Iraq conflict. When their
search proves fruitless, Miller begins to question the supposedly
'solid' intelligence that gave the locations of these WMD sites. The
plot follows Miller's demand for answers from an unstable command
desperate to hide them, revealing a political division at the heart of
the U.S administration.

Yes, this is fiction, but Greengrass has become adept at tapping into
our taste for conspiracy, contextualising his stories within a
political reality that has become all too familiar to us since the
invasion began in 2003. It's thrilling stuff, and I think that is the
key word to remember when watching this film. Thriller. Yes, there is
political content here, and yes, it does hold up to some scrutiny. For
example, the opening of the movie portrays the sense of confusion of
conflicting command structures particularly well, really getting into
the disorientation and intrigue of a military operation that isn't
going as planned. The role of journalist Laurie Dayne (played by Amy
Ryan) also provides a well-executed analysis of how the media's
coverage of the facts can be impaired by the manoeuvrings of political
and military authority.

There are moments when this political engagement appears heavy-handed,
but that is because the director's priority is always, first and
foremost, entertainment. For example, there is nothing subtle about
Damon's character walking into a scene of Americans drinking and
lounging by the pool of one of Saddam Hussein's palaces. Furthermore,
the film suffers from conventional Hollywood stereotypes when it tries
to depict the 'downtrodden-yet-hopeful' Iraqi citizen, who works with
Miller in order to expose the truth about his country. Khalid Abdalla
(best known for his lead role in 'The Kite Runner') does his best with
the material available, but the role lacks depth and complexity, and
for me is one of the few disappointments of the film.

But, as I said, this a work of fiction, and there are plenty of moments
where our taste for excitement and spectacle is satisfied. Greengrass'
now familiar 'handycam' filming style is appropriate to the sense that
we are never sure as an audience where the threat is going to come
from. It provides a kick of adrenaline to the action sequences, making
us feel the sand in our mouths as we are thrown to the floor, and adds
docudrama realism to the events on screen. Some of the reviews I have
seen complained about this style of cinematography, but I think
Greengrass has managed to make the technique contribute to the content
of his film, rather than becoming overly intrusive or threatening our
cinematic experience.

There is a delicious feeling of melodrama to the piece as a whole  the
moustached Jason Isaacs as the sinister Special Forces operative
provides a gripping counterbalance to the inquiring Matt Damon. Brendan
Gleeson is superb as the CIA agent that won't roll over and accept the
demands of the military and political commanders. Indeed, the cast as a
whole appears to work well together in a film that successfully marries
the need for political engagement with the desire for cinematic
spectacle. It is a film designed for box office appeal, and yet despite
this it doesn't compromise on the political foundations on which it is
based. Its climax is a fine reward for the audience's suspense  in
short, a well-worked film that cuts to the heart of our craving for
conspiracy and revelation.

James Gill (Twitter @jg8608)
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Green Zone,' the 'Bourne' action blockbuster team (led by Paul
Greengrass and his star Matt Damon) goes to Iraq, or rather to a
facsimile staged in Spain and Morocco, switching from a
super-assassin's identity crisis to contemporary political and military
history.

It seemed like this might be the great Iraq movie Americans haven't
had, a blockbuster as exciting and real-feeling as Bigelow's
Oscar-winning 'Hurt Locker,' but with real political context. 'Locker'
is a superb battlefield action movie but it doesn't delve into the
larger issues -- and, lacking a big name star, hasn't been seen by very
many people, at least for a movie that won the Oscar for Best Picture.
More analytical and contextual Iraq war movies like 'Lions for Lambs,'
'In the Valley of Eli,' 'The Messenger' or 'Rendition,' on the other
hand, have been too small, anemic, and downbeat to be big box office.
If anybody could turn this around and make an Iraq film that's both
exciting and a think piece, the 'Bourne' guys could, right?
Unfortunately, no, though the 'Bourne' team's involvement means 'Green
Zone' will substantially outperform 'Hurt Locker' at the box office,
and they have made an action movie that's boldly political, however
deeply flawed. Let's bear in mind that the 'Bourne' movies are smart,
but they're fantasy. Dealing with historical events is is a different
kind of project.

The focus of 'Green Zone' is on the early stages of the 2003 US Iraq
invasion. The writer, Brian Helgelund ('L.A. Confidential,' 'Mystic
River') is trying to get across the information in Rajiv
Chandrasekaran's non-fiction 'Imperial Life in the Emerald City' while
telling an action tale that follows an investigating tough guy played
by Damon. As described in the documentary 'No End in Sight,' the US
authorities made a number of crucial mistakes in the run-up to the war
and how the occupation was run. Helgelund gets all this across, but the
result is a mash-up that lacks credibility or logic.

First US mistake: the key pretext for the invasion, Saddam Hussein's
possession of "weapons of mass destruction" (or "WMD's"), proved
illusory; no such weapons were found in locations where an Iraqi
"credible source" said they were hidden. Matt Damon plays Chief Warrant
Officer Roy Miller, who heads a squad charged with checking out places
where US "intel" says there are WMD's stored. He points out the intel
is bad, and soon finds out his opinion is not wanted by the higher ups,
represented by Poundstone (Greg Kinnear), a Bush official who arrives
with Ahmed Zubaidi (Raad Rawi) -- a stand-in for the actual Ahmad
Chalabi, the US puppet the Bush administration foolishly thought could
be put in to head a new government (another mistake). 'Green Zone'
shows in a scene how spectacularly this fails.

Second, the allied forces did not prevent widespread looting or
maintain the infrastructure. Chaos reigned in Baghdad and eventually
the rest of Iraq and the invaders lost the "hearts and minds" of
Iraqis, who were enraged at being deprived of safety, food, water, and
a steady power supply. This is when Donald Rumsfeld uttered his line
"Stuff happens." There's no Rumsfeld stand-in here, but the line
"democracy is messy" occurs.

Third, the provisional authority chose to dismantle the entire Iraqi
administrative structure, including all Baath Party members in
government and the Iraqi army. With the second and third mistakes the
US lost its credibility and made a vast number of unnecessary enemies,
and the way was paved for chaos and civil war in the country.

After Chief Miller comes up with "doughnuts" at every supposed WMD
location and becomes convinced the intel is no good in spite of being
told at briefings it's pure gold, he becomes a cowboy and sets out on a
zigzagged path of his own. He's supported by a high-ranking CIA officer
with profound in-country experience named Martin Brown (Brendan
Gleeson), who knows the WMD locations are fake and sees a cover-up.
Amazing how Miller encounters both Poundstone and Brown right away in
the occupation's "safe" "Green Zone" palace HQ. In fact Miller has
magical access. He also runs into a Wall Street Journal correspondent
called Lawrie Dayne (Amy Ryan), who turns out to have touted the
government's dubious WMD stories (received from Ahmad Chalabi) in
widely read articles, and she's discovering that she was duped but
trying to cover it up. Dayne is a stand-in for the Times's Judith
Miller.

By this point it's obvious the screenplay is as schematic and
implausible as 'The Hurt Locker's' is specific and real. Hence it's not
surprising Chief Miler runs into "Freddy" (Khalid Abdalla) -- an Iraqi
trying to guide any Americans he can find to a meeting of Baath leaders
and cohorts held by a big Iraqi general, Al Rawi (Yigal Naor, an
Israeli who specializes in playing Arab officials in American movies).
Miller now turns into a rogue soldier, with Poundstone ordering him
reassigned to his unit and Poundstone's more cooperative military
operatives out to get him. Miller forgets about looking for WMD's and
is now trying to "save lives" by tracking down Al Rawi, which involves
sneaking into a prison with Freddy and a million dollars from his CIA
ally, Brown.

This is where things get really exciting, with everybody chasing
everybody else, and Greengrass and his dp Barry Akroyd (who
incidentally did the photography for 'Hurt Locker,' as well as
Greengrass' 'United 93') fully up to speed in the action sequences.
'Green Zone' is consistently good on that level, but that success is
undermined by the overall implausibility. Helgelund is obviously
interweaving themes from a book about US mismanagement and aloofness
from reality in Baghdad with chases and shoot-outs staged to give his
action hero work to do. Will this movie change anybody's perception of
the Iraq war? Probably people who go just for the action will look on
the political stuff as decoration, as it usually is. But you never
know. . .
