
Liam Neeson plays Peter, the husband of a famous shoe designer named
Lisa(Laura Linney). After some suspicions Peter realizes that his wife
hasn't been faithful and when he finds the address of Ralf(Antonio
Banderas), the man his wife cheated on him with, he travels to Italy to
confront him. When I saw the trailer for The Other Man, I immediately
thought the film had a great premise; a man finds out that his wife has
been cheating on him and then he tries to track down this man and
execute some kind of revenge. That is what you get from the trailer,
however, the trailer is incredibly misleading, the story doesn't pan
out like that. Not even close. But what really ruined this movie for
me, was the direction. Most of the scenes seemed glued together. You're
watching a scene and all of a sudden you're watching something
completely different and you're left wondering if you missed the last
10 minutes of the film. The reason why the film is like that, is
because the director introduced a twist near the end but, until that
moment, nothing makes sense, and when the reveal finally comes, it's a
terrible letdown. This premise and cast on someone's else hands could
have been something great. Unfortunately, all Richard Eyre's was able
to do, was a boring and poorly executed movie.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Eyre has carefully constructed an intimate tale of a man who
discovers his wife's infidelity. 

Liam Neeson and Antonio Banderas provide subtle and mature
performances, with Romola Garai outstanding as the daughter. 

The film is beautifully shot on location in Milan and Lake Como as well
as in London and Ely.

The plot twists are effective, leaving one to reflect on how little we
can truly know of the people around us.

Nevertheless, the denouement feels a little forced, even if a logical
conclusion to the narrative.
<|_=00=_|>
I think there are 3 reasons some reviewers did not like this movie.
First it was placed in the "suspense" category and it is a drama.
Second, some of you may be used to fast reactions to conflicts and the
sometimes violent retribution many movies contain. Third, you may be
young. I am old and have had friends who had affairs, some who wanted
to, and didn't. I have seen many happy marriages and many lonely sad
marriages. I found the movie honest and extremely well acted. The
husband had all the rage, anger and desire to kill the lover, until he
got to know him. The lover, at first glance, is smug, a playboy, easy
to hate. But in the end, the husband sees the lover for the deeply
sincere, but flawed man he is. He finally sees himself as his dead wife
had seen him, more than the boring software engineer. He is better than
that. The lover is much less than a rival, but they deeply loved the
same woman. The husband realizes how really devastated the lover is and
how his wife had loved and deserved both men in her life. As life
usually is, there was poetic justice. She died a painful death after
hurting her husband. He finally forgave and found peace. The lover was
forgiven, often a reason for shame, his secrets open to those around
him. He lost the woman he loved, and a women who loved him for what was
inside, not the phony outward role he played. You know he will never
find that again. There is a lot going on in this movie, all under the
surface. I kept wondering if it would revert to the standard murder
scenario, that was the suspense for me. The outcome was real, not
Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
In Cambridge, the software engineer Peter (Liam Neeson) and the shoe
designer Lisa (Laura Linney) are successful in their careers and have
been happily married for twenty-five years. They have an adult
daughter, Abigail (Romola Garai), and Lisa frequently travels to Milano
to do business with the Gianni & Gianni Company. When Lisa is gone,
Peter finds a message in her cellular and decides to snoop her e-mails
and discovers in a secret folder named Love that she had a lover, Ralph
(Antonio Banderas). Peter travels to Milano and stalks Ralph; he finds
that the man plays chest in a bar. Peter gets close to Ralph that tells
his relationship with Lisa without knowing that he is her husband. 

"The Other Man" is an engaging romance about adultery and triangle of
love among the husband, the wife and her lover. The story is supported
by the excellent Liam Neeson, Laura Linney and Antonio Banderas but
unfortunately the suspenseful screenplay has a disappointing
conclusion. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Amante" ("The Lover")
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is very confusing, but the few clues suggest the following.
Lisa married young and was probably bored. She had the chance to
experiment and did so with the silly Ralph, a man whose life is purely
on fantasy. She hid the affair from her husband for several years who
was completely devoted to her, but when struck by cancer, she decided
to leave him clues so that he could discover the affair. This is
probably where your mind has to be a little twisted to follow her logic
for doing this. In leaving naked photo evidence of her affair and clues
to help her husband track down her lover the nut case, she could only
expect that he could become enraged and hate her. Given how much they
are supposed to love each other, one can only think that she was
concerned that he might not be able to get over her death and so
proceeded to make sure that he would hate her and in the process, get
over her.

Peter worked out her plan in the end and that just made him forgive her
and love her regardless - hence the 'thank god for Ralph' at the party
and the comment to his daughter at the station 'she didn't know us at
all did she'.
<|_=00=_|>
Sick of explosions and car chases? I am. The Other Man is a
surprisingly atmospheric and complex story about a grieving man (played
intensely by Liam Neeson) who discovers his wife has had an affair.
Obsessed with discovering the identity of the other man (played
excellently by Antonio Banderas in a very different sort of role) he
tracks him down and befriends him without revealing his identity. The
scenes where the two men pay chess, and the dialog over the board are
revealing, and the torment subtly played by Neeson, is masterful.
Banderas and Neeson are superb in this movie, which is both a mystery
and a psychological thriller, all filmed with exquisite attention to
light and atmosphere in Italy and England. If you rent it, I highly
recommend you watch it a second time with the director's commentary
turned onÂ—but not the first time; it gives too much away. You may want
to watch it a third time.
<|_=00=_|>
I think I have rarely seen worse movies than this one. The movie just
doesn't add up. It keeps your interest for the first 30 minutes I
think, then you start wondering what is happening. What I really really
really can't understand is, how such a good cast decided to be in this
slow dragging, boring , lousy end , kind of movie ! 

It's just a simple story of a cheating wife. Actually the story starts
off with Liam Neeson finding out that his wife is cheating on him. He
finds out who it is, befriends him, and the movie ends. I am not
joking. There is absolutely nothing else in the movie. If there is ,
someone please tell me what I missed.

Anyways believe me, you don't want to see this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is ultimately disappointing and deserving of its relatively
low rating because its edit is annoying and telegraphs where it is
going. World-class actors contribute tension and pace and a poor edit
simply brings the movie to a complete stop. If ever there was an
example of how important editing is to a movie, this is it. Film
classes should look at this movie, deconstruct it, and put it back
together in a more interesting way. If you watch this film, think about
simply reordering several scenes to build tension and mystery and
remove confusion. It's a worthwhile exercise. Movies are a complex
undertaking that requires contributions of so many -- many folks
labored over this film but the folks who put it together just didn't
have the talent to pull it off.
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't a simple film. It's a film that plays with time to tell a
story encompassing love, jealousy, anger, loss and pain. It covers the
gamut of emotions one feels when betrayed and follows the path a man
goes down as he discovers his wife has had another love.

I loved Liam Neeson's descent into jealous rage and the discoveries he
made about himself, his family and his relationship as he discovers
secrets from his wife's past. A moody film, perfectly adapted to its
subject matter, you feel drawn into Neeson's character's despair.

It's not the best film I've seen recently but it's one I'm glad I saw
and would heartily recommend it to others who are willing to think a
film through its details. The acting's good and both Liam Neeson and
Laura Linney carry the plot well. Antonio Banderas plays a less rounded
role, but still does so enjoyably.

Definitely a film worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
What do you get when you combine two Oscar nominees, one Golden Globe
nominee, an up-and-coming young talent, and the director of the
brilliant "Notes on a Scandal"? Apparently, to my intense surprise, you
get a lifeless and poorly-crafted thriller...well, a thriller in name
only, since there are no thrills and no compelling story to speak of.
To call it a disappointment would be one of the year's gravest
cinematic understatements. "The Other Man" is not merely disappointing;
it is rather a travesty, as we are essentially watching three great
actors and one great director flounder in a film that is simply bad in
just about every aspect. Starting from the ground floor, the screenplay
is spineless and unappealing, attempting to tell a potentially
intriguing story in a lazy and clumsily-executed way. It rarely calls
for the characters to do anything more than go through the motions and
talk about insignificant things for extended periods. When it unveils
its two big twists, it does so with a fizzle rather than a bangÂ—an
arduous, painful fizzle.
