
If you took the time to find it, then you wont be disappointed with
this solid, old fashioned sword and sorcery movie.

The tales of Solomon Kane have been around longer than most, the
character first appearing in mass market print back in the late
twenties, but they've not been filmed. Many others, borrowing from it
have been filmed so you will be quite familiar with the twists and
turns having seen them elsewhere. The saving grace here is that it's
all done quite well. James Purefoy is every part the tortured warrior
and it's good to see Max Von Sydow and the legend that is Pete
Poslethwaite up on the big screen. It's a creepy, dark movie at times
and the extra effort they've put into the set design and cinematography
really helps to set the scene. The story nips along to a satisfying
conclusion. The fight choreography is very well done and FX are good as
well.
<|_=00=_|>
in my book there are 3 classes of fantasy.

high, full of goblins elves and knights in shining amour.

low, a fantasy world without all the classical elements no elves no
fairies no blazing swords, 

and dark, born from madman's nightmares and populated with them dark
place dark worlds and a serious take on the genre.

Kane falls into the latter,

for a low budget film its certainly well done, the character is fairly
close to the story's, the props and costumes are reasonably accurate.

the fighting direction is also true to the character no frivolous
swashbuckling here lethal moves to great effect.

Kane was not some marvelesque hero wasting motion and energy in his
strikes, as one character in a story put it "he is the most lethal
swordsmen I've ever seen". (paraphrased).

some parts of it could have been handled better the ending or a slight
tightening up of the exposition parts, but all in all well worth
watching.

is it worth seeing yes. but bear in mind this is not a lord of the
rings style film, nor is this die hard 1600. 

there is a lot of dialog and a lot of religious references. this is a
dark fantasy film with a touch of horror, aiming to reveal Kane's
hitherto unknown origins.

if you like to support good independent films go see it if all your
interested in is mindless action..... do what you will.
<|_=00=_|>
Solomon Kane was pretty good, perhaps it didn't do well in the States,
because there were no American A listers in the cast, but it had Pete
Postlethwaite and Max Von Snow apart from James Purefoy in the lead, so
you could hardly say it didn't have it's quota of serious actors in it.

Yes it was a tad predictable, well it was from the creator of Conan, so
you could hardly expect high art. But, unlike you would have expected,
it was quite a dark film, one mans quest to redeem his soul, and you
believed in it, Purefoy played the complete ruthless murderer and the
tortured soul, and in the confines of the film you believed it.

It betrayed it's lowish budget, with a lack of major CGI except where
it was needed, and at the beginning the model work was a bit obvious
(like Conan all those years ago) but instead went for serious good
makeup and prosthetics,and the fight scenes when they happened where
vicious, bloody and really well choreographed, Purefoy does good
action. I really enjoyed this film for what it was, ENJOYMENT.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever wonder what it would be like if Van Helsing didn't suck? To take
that idea a bit further, ever wonder what it would be like if the films
Van Helsing and Constantine were able to mate and its offspring was a
film that was actually pretty awesome? In a nutshell, that's what you
get with Solomon Kane. On the surface, Solomon Kane is very similar to
Van Helsing. It has the same look and atmosphere of Van Helsing without
all the monster hunting. In place of the monsters, we get demons.
That's where the Constantine influence comes in. Solomon Kane's
religious undertones, use of mirrors, and conclusion are all very
reminiscent of Constantine.

Certain elements of the film may not be as absorbing as others. The CGI
in the film seemed to fluctuate between being pretty good to below par.
The crucifixion scene didn't really work either. Why Kane did what he
did in that scene makes sense, but his actions and what he does
immediately after that is pretty hard to swallow.

Solomon Kane isn't without its flaws, but is basically the gory, more
adult, and definitive version of what Van Helsing should have been.
With the amount of decapitated heads that are rolling around, every
action scene littered with splattered blood, and its darker twists on
religious views, Solomon Kane delivers a blood-soaked cinematic
delight.
<|_=00=_|>
Minor Spoiler Alert!

If Peter Jackson deemed it a good idea to remake Michael Reeves classic
WITCHFINDER GENERAL, the result might look an awful lot like SOLOMON
KANE. Based on Robert E Howard's 17th Century Puritan pulp fiction
character, SOLOMON KANE begins in media res, with Solomon and his
ill-fated ship crew coming face-to-face with the grim reaper. This
particular reaper, unfortunately, is in the employ of Satan himself and
damns Kane's soul for a life of wickedness, greed and throwing knives
into peoples faces in a really cool way. A year later Kane, now living
in an English monastery, is kicked out when the head monk senses our
hero will only bring trouble for the 16th Century peaceniks. On the
road Kane hooks up with Pete Postlethwaite and his brood, a family of
puritans headed for the coast and a persecutionless life in the New
Worlde. Needless to say, the family have 'victims' written all over
them in huge, medieval script, and things don't go well. Thematically,
the story borrows elements from the Howard story RED SHADOWS, but it's
really its own beast. Which is a shame, in a way, because the author
knew how to weave a damn good tale and SOLOMON KANE's script is
certainly the weakest thing about it. We're never really sure why
Kane's soul is damned, or how that's connected with the evil magician
who has taken over his father's (Max Von Sydow) castle. Oh yes, Kane is
also a member of the aristocracy, banished from the land by his dad in
true Joseph Campbell fashion. Director Michael J Bassett also seems
just a little TOO fond of a certain fantasy trilogy. A horseback chase
sequence, while exciting, was even more impressive first time around in
FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING, while the final assault on Kane's ancestral
castle involves a battle in torrential rain, part Helm's Deep, part
SEVEN SAMURAI. Most egregious of all is the final showdown between
Solomon Kane and, really this is giving nothing away, Old Nick himself.
Considering how creative much of the makeup and design work is in the
film, and it really is quite striking, it comes as something of a shock
to see a certain fire demon turn up for the finale. "You shall not
pass!" indeed. And yet....there's so much to like about SOLOMON KANE.
As mentioned above, the design work is outstanding. This is a grimy,
gritty middle ages that has rarely been seen outside the early work of
Terry's Jones and Gilliam. The snowy, grey landscapes of England's West
Country (actually Prague, for the most part) are frequently
breathtaking. The action scenes are satisfyingly low tech, with
seemingly little CGI but plenty of decapitations and arterial sprays.
It's a shame they weren't put in the service of a better story, but
when the action scenes kick in you're unlikely to be overly concerned.
The films biggest asset, however,is its lead actor. It's a little
disconcerting watching James Purefoy in this role when you know that he
left the production of V FOR VENDETTA having already filmed some scenes
as the eponymous character. In some of the many shots where he's
silhouetted against the ubiquitous grey and rain-streaked Somerset sky,
all flowing cape and stovepipe hat, he's uncannily similar to Alan
Moore's anarchist anti-hero. He also shares a similar penchant for
dispatching England's enemies with the throw of dagger to the neck.
Purefoy plays Kane as if he's in a state of persistent physical agony,
which is quite fitting. He's really rather magnificent in the role and
brings Hugh Jackman levels of charisma to the part. No small feat
considering Kane is the sort of chap who makes Matthew Hopkins look
like a member of the ACLU. Purefoy's Solomon Kane may also be the first
swashbuckling, sword wielding hero with a British West Country accent
since Nigel Terry's King Arthur in Excalibur. Purefoy is the main
reason that, at the end of the film, with the suggestion of more
adventures to come, you hope SOLOMON KANE will do decent enough box
office to warrant a franchise. This first outing is far from perfect,
but there's considerable potential and the distinct promise of better
to come.
<|_=00=_|>
The criticisms of this film are inevitable, and not entirely incorrect.
But for me, Solomon Kane rises above the usual formula in numerous
ways.

First, the character: much darker and more conflicted than your average
action hero. Second, a story that gives that character time to breathe
and grow, instead of becoming lost in a morass of action sequences and
CG effects. Third, a gritty, uncluttered, near-monochromatic look
that's perfectly suited to the character and story, and frequently a
sheer wonder to behold. The visuals are evocative of great fantasy
artists like Frank Frazetta and Jeff Jones; there are numerous shots in
this film I'd happily hang on my wall.

Of course, Kane himself is the film's dominant image - and it is a
memorable one. But Kane not only looks striking in the flat hat and
dark cloak, he has the dour personality to match. And a fighting style
that for once fits the mood, and suggests a human adventurer with
limited abilities, as opposed to the usual samurai-ninja superhero.

IS this truly "Robert E. Howard's" Solomon Kane? Y'know what - I don't
care. Howard didn't write a lot of Kane stories, and although I did
read them years ago, they left very little impression on my memory.
What's more, I have nothing against films that are happy to be
'inspired by' literary works, without slavishly transferring every word
to the screen. What Solomon Kane, the movie, DOES get right is the
SPIRIT of Robert E. Howard's work - the dark vision, the creepy
situations, the sense of a man struggling against forces only dimly
understood and much larger than himself.

The slow pacing? This is the film's BEST point. Early on, the film
focuses on Kane's personality, and his relationships with others. It
sets a mood. Too many action films are in too much of a hurry to get to
the action. Solomon Kane doesn't cater to the ADD-addled audience, and
if that's a mistake it falls in the area of marketing, not creativity.
I particularly liked the ending... instead of lingering endlessly over
the climactic fight, the film just gets on with the story.

Solomon Kane isn't exactly a classic, but it has an appealing
simplicity and an inner strength that bigger-budget spectaculars could
learn from. I guess a sequel is too much to hope for at this point, but
I'll definitely be looking forward to Michael J. Bassett's next
creation, whatever it may be.
<|_=00=_|>
Solomon Kane I'll start by pointing out that in no way is SK a copy of
Van Helsing, the media and certain unaware people have been comparing
the two just due to the characters clothing resemblance like the big
hat, well Solomon Kane has been wearing the big hat since he was
created in 1928 as stories written in weird tales, where as the 2004
movie van helsing was the first time the character had been portrayed
wearing the big hat and being a monster hunter rather than just the
killer of count Dracula, if anything the 04 VH movie copied Solomon
Kane, anyway moving on to the review:

I was excited about seeing this since i'm a big movie fan and enjoy
reading books i was waiting with anticipation for the release, the
movie started strong with a impressive fight sequence and good special
effects,there was none of the shaky camera action scenes which i find
ruin any action movie when you can't see whats happening, everything
from the props to visuals made it a very dark and almost creepy
atmosphere, although i would class it as a action/fantasy there was
elements of horror thrown in too, during the middle of the film the
action slows for a while but that just gave me time to appreciate the
performance given by James purefoy, other than resident evil i'd never
really seen him in anything but i will defend his performance as
Solomon Kane since i don't think anyone else could have played the part
as confidently as him, supporting cast wise they mostly perform well.

There was a few continuity issues with the fact that Solomon never
seemed to run out of single shot pistols and even if he'd thrown one at
someone or something he always had both a sword and dagger but along
with a few other things i must say that i did enjoy watching this and
if you're a fan of the genre then i recommend a watch.

over all i give Solomon Kane 7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I was familiar with the 'Solomon Kane' character before I watched this
film, both from the original stories and the Marvel Comics incarnation
of the 1970s. The film is based on Robert E. Howard's creation, not on
any later story and is all the better for it. The characters and their
actions are believable, the atmosphere is great and the special effects
are fine. There are copious amounts of sword play as well as sorcery -
something that other R. E. H. adaptations in film have been sadly
missing (notably 'Conan the Barbarian'). Michael J. Bassett manages to
make an exciting film out of what could have been just another
good-versus-evil story. Recommended for all fans of gritty fantasy.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked it. A film very much in the vein of The Mummy series, but with
a more adult and dark side. I found the film full of atmosphere and it
drew me in despite the shallow story line, which is to be expected
given that it's a hero driven action flick. I thought that the effects,
make-up, music, acting, directing, really the whole thing was very
solid and it's not just another low budget flick as other reviewers
have stated. I would welcome a sequel to this movie, although that
might be stretching the storyline a tad too much. Sure, not the
masterpiece of the Lord of the Rings but certainly a good hack n slash
medieval romp that'll keep you entertained for the duration.
<|_=00=_|>
SOLOMON KANE was really not what I expected. It's far, far better than
I could have hoped. As it stands, its pretty unique in the sword and
sorcery movies simply because it has proper drama, great performances
and some nasty intense action along with all the traditional sword
fights, magical monsters and running, jumping and chasing. Easy to
level the criticism that it re-runs a few Lord of the Rings moments but
it's an altogether darker and more evil version because of the grim
reality the comes down with every drop of rain  and there's lots of
rain  and the human and spiritual element that exists within the
story. Made me think of Gladiator in some ways. A doomed soul needing
redemption for his past sins? Not exactly what REH envisioned for his
iconic Puritan swordsman I'm sure, but I get why writer and director
Michael Bassett went down this route and for me and I'm okay with
because whatever the story, the character from Howard's pages exists in
a way which is surprisingly pure and the world is exactly right. He
feels like the Kane I was hoping for and Purefoy manages to make him
both grim and taciturn as well as offering us just enough humanity to
go along with him for the ride. Some great design with nicely practical
and real seeming effects with real blood and gore splatting instead of
stylized CG offerings. Monsters are mostly fun and the action in
intense  if a little small scale. You don't get armies of thousand of
orcs here, it's all quite focused and personal. There's one act of
violence near the middle which really changed the feel for me.
Unexpected and shocking. It feels like a smaller budget went a very
long way and it does look gorgeous. Not a kiddies movie by a long shot
and one that, surprisingly, offered me a good deal of material to
meditate on about the power of faith and strength of will. Kane really
suffers some very heavy duty punishment in this story. I was quite
shocked where they went with it and no doubt someone is going to be
offended but if Bassett is trying to draw parallels to another iconic
figures from history, he's not exactly being subtle. If you're a fan of
Robert E Howard's books you can rest easy, if you've never heard of
Solomon Kane this is a great introduction and if you just like your
fantasy action adventure with a little more heart and a lot more
brains, then this is for you too. 8 out of 10.
