
There's a constant stream of animated films these days, but mostly
they're either glossy Hollywood product (Pixar/Dreamworks), or Japanese
anime. For adults wanting something different we have to wait for the
likes of The Nightmare Before Christmas, Waltz With Bashir, Persepolis,
or Aardman's films to turn up. Mary & Max is one of these films that
comes as a complete departure from all the others, both in visual and
storytelling style, and sticks in the mind because of it. I won't
repeat the plot here, so I'll just mention a few pros and cons. The
cons are obvious. Some people will be put off by the almost constant
narration (which took me a while to get used to), the rather numerous
calamities (a lot more than you'd expect if you thought this was just a
kids film), and the sadness within some of these people's stories. It's
actually a little surprising that the film got made without the people
financing it demanding a script that was more tailored to appeal to a
wider audience. What we get is something that feels a whole lot more
personal than the higher profile animated films. It feels personal, and
therefore real, and the explanation is that it was written from life by
a director who has a real feeling and sympathy for people who don't
quite fit into the world, and feel alienated or are misunderstood by
others. Mary was partly inspired by the director's own childhood (and
there's a little bit of Toni Collette's Muriel Heslop thrown in I
suspect), and Max is also based on a real person he's been pen friends
with (but so far has never met in person). The way the film handles his
Asperger's Syndrome just feels different to how you'd normally see such
an issue handled on screen. There's a constant stream of humour
(ironic, black, childish), and I really enjoyed the small perfect
touches on growing up in an Australian suburb in the 70's and 80's, and
the depiction of grey New York, as it appears to the easily frightened
Max. The animation is constantly a joy to watch, and I highly recommend
seeing it on the big screen where it can be properly appreciated in all
it's hand-made glory.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to describe just how excellent this film is. The story is
great, both very funny and touching. The art-design and animation are a
delight, thoughtful, very rich in details, and very consistent in
style. The music is great. The storyline and direction... I can't find
a bad word to say, except that the story drags a little half- way
through, but then picks itself up again toward the end. Truly, a
must-see. If you like adult animation, this is definitely for you. I
agree with those comparing it to Aardman films, Waltz with Bashir and
Persepolis, but this movie's animation is so professional, that only
Aardman truly compares.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film at the Berlinale with mixed feelings. I knew that
Adam Elliot's shorts were great but frankly the last few years haven't
been great for Australian films and a number of short filmmakers have
made disappointing first features.

But right from the opening frame, this film shattered any of my doubts.
It's so refreshing to see a film told with such a strong unique vision
and pulled off so effortlessly. This is made even more remarkable not
only as it's made using stop motion animation but also because of the
characters and subject matter it tackles.

Mary is an 8 year old outcast living in the suburbs of Melbourne. On a
whim, she chooses a name at random in a phone book and sends off a
letter asking about life on the other side of the world. The letter is
received by Max, an overweight depressive in his 40's living in New
York, suffering from Aspergers Syndrome. A friendship is born as the
pair exchange letters over the next 20 years. offering each other
support, advice and the chance to see life through another set of eyes.

While the world is painted in gloomy hues of brown and grey and the
characters lead bleak lives, the genius of the script is that the
characters never wallow or feel sorry for themselves. The tone is kept
humorous and balanced allowing us to be moved by the characters as they
stumble through life but also laugh at their foibles and observations
of the world they struggle to fit into. Not since Muriel's Wedding has
Australia produced so fine a comedy with such rich detail and I
probably got even more laughs out of this.

My only criticism of the film would be some of its music particularly
its use in one key scene of the Humming Chorus (already used so
memorably in the finale of Heavenly Creatures). It meant that in a
critical moment I was thinking of Kate Winslet up to no good instead of
connecting with Mary & Max. But this is more a personal concern and if
that's the weakest thing about the film, it's doing pretty well. I hope
this film is seen by the wide audience it so richly deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
In Australia in 1976, a young girl named Mary (voiced by Bethany
Whitmore) is a lonely child looking for a friend. She lives with both
her parents but her mother is a chain smoking drunk and a thief and her
father, who works in a factory putting the strings on teabags, would
rather spend time with his collection of dead birds. Mary remains
curious about life and finds the address of an American living in New
York. She writes him a letter to become his pen pal. The recipient is
Max (Philip Seymour Hoffman), a severely overweight Jewish
hypochondriac and full-time no-hoper. Gradually, as they send each
other letters, Mary and Max's relationship develops and we begin to
learn more about their past and their heartache and insecurities of
being alone.

Following the short animated film, Harvey Krumpet, director Adam Elliot
has constructed his first full feature claymation picture, displaying
as much skill as many of the major mainstream studios. The film has
been immaculately designed, with many tiny details and features placed
into the sets, all of which would have taken many countless hours to
mould. The lighting and colour scheme too are significant to the unique
look of the film, ranging from highly saturated to almost entirely
black and white, to reflect the self-depreciative and sometimes gloomy
tone of the narrative. It is a film made of great patience and
craftsmanship.

Yet the strongest asset of the film is the humour of the screenplay.
Whereas many mainstream animated films such as Shrek and The
Incredibles adopt a great deal of hilarity from their pop culture
references, Elliot has an eye for the simpler things in life. From the
way Mary and Max share their eating habits of chocolate hot dogs, to
how Max describes his past jobs, including a street cleaner and a
member of the Communist Party, the humour of the film remains truly
original, bizarre and often very witty. Elliot excels in his ability
write about the most normal things and then turn them on their heads,
or degrade his miserable characters in the most hilarious way. Yet
there are moments of poignancy too, such as where Mary describes her
difficulty at school as she is teased for the birthmark on her
forehead, that provide the film's screenplay with a subtext - no matter
how simple Â– about isolation and the need for friends.

The use of Barry Humphries' voice over to convey much of the story is
initially highly annoying and intrusive. In the opening scenes it feels
overly used and distracting from the story and the detail of the
scenes. Gradually though, as the film moves from its opening
exposition, the voice over is used slightly less and its scarcity
achieves the storybook quality and poetry that it deserves. Barry
Humphries reads his lines beautifully. The rest of the voice actors too
are splendid. Philip Seymour Hoffman is again in fine form, adding a
slight accent to his voice and the decision to model his voice with a
character of a similar physique fits nicely. He is quickly become one
of the most diverse actors in the world. Bethany Whitmore as the young
Mary is equally impressive too and her voice has a real innocence about
it. Toni Collette and Eric Bana also have much smaller roles too. It is
a well thought out voice cast and while some of the minor characters
verge on grotesque, there is still a real sweetness about this film
that carries it.

Elliot has described his film as being suitable for everyone. This is
rather optimistic. I don't know how particularly young children, who
have been conditioned by the more mainstream animated titles, would
appreciate the film. It is extremely funny for the most part, but there
is also a real sense of gloom around these characters that might not be
as appealing to children. And towards the end, the film, despite being
well under two hours, begins to lose a bit of momentum as the
characters wave in and out of their depleted lives. Perhaps the films
message of learning to live with your flaws and accepting the path life
has given you is something that children, even if they don't entirely
understand now though, needs to be seen anyway. Regardless, it remains
a mostly sharp and funny film that many will find refreshing and
engaging given the home-grown talent involved.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was very well made. I can relate to Max's
character, as i work with people who have Asperges Syndrome. The
creator showed the audience what it is really like, in society, to have
a mental disability of this kind. The use of gray colour with a splash
of red when showing the scenes with Max, was very effective, and give
the audience the sense of what Max was feeling. I saw this movie with
work colleagues who also work with children with this disorder, and we
were all curious to see how this disorder would be shown. We were all
very pleased. 

This movie shows the audience what people with asperges syndrome go
through in day to day life, and how they don't understand things that
most people would. As well as how they do/do not cope with some issues.

This movie is not for children. It is quite sad, but with some really
funny parts. and for those who live in Melbourne, especially, you will
understand some of the references.

I give this movie 10/10.

After 5 years in the making it is definitely worth watching
<|_=00=_|>
Coming from Australia, Mary and Max is one of these few films you'll
remember all your life. This amazing claymation touches upon an
unlikely friendship between two pen pals: a young girl living in
Australia and an aging Jew from New York. It's unbelievable what a
precisely structured narrative this is. Director-writer Adam Elliot
blends odd scatological, yet clever humour with poignant dramatizations
to a splendid effect creating one of the best tragicomedies of the past
few years. The fact that it's in the form of claymation only helps to
enhance uniqueness of the whole experience. The movie was 5 years in
the making and this is visible in its every frame. Elliot masterly
captures the motion in an endlessly creative manner. Most importantly
though, his lovably oddball characters are well developed and admirably
complex with all their awkward traits and quirks. Due to its serious
themes and dark tone, Mary and Max is an adult movie aiming much higher
than its big studio counterparts. It happens to be more contemplative,
and intelligent mimicking the real life with all its ups and downs.
Calling Elliot's movie an extraordinary piece of art is certainly not
an overstatement.
<|_=00=_|>
Just finished watching this, And Loved it. Previously Wall-e was the
only animation that I rated 10/10. And this is the second one.

If You have not seen this You have no idea about how good it is.Its
very well written (A True Story) , well Directed, narrated and equally
good Animation in all respects. You don't Find Much stuff like this.

Its would get a rating of Pg-13 because of sex related material but I
think every Children of 10+ should see this because the sex related
material is kept very implicit.

I hope It will get Nominated for best Animation for year 2011, Best
screenplay and best picture as well.

I have much more to say but since I have to review lot more movies I
will just tell ya: I just Love It.

9.5/10. (Better than all animations of 2009) Can't wait to see it in
top 250.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1976, in Australia, the misfit and outcast eight-year old girl Mary
Daisy Dinkle lives in Mount Waverley with her alcoholic shoplifter
mother Vera Lorraine Dinkle that is addicted in Sherry and her absent
father Noel Norman Dinkle that works in the Earl Grey Factory attaching
strings in the teabag and spends his leisure time in his hobby -
taxidermy. Mary has absolutely no friends and is teased by her
schoolmate Benny Clifford. She has a complex because of her brown
birthmark in the forehead and she adores her favorite cartoon The
Noblets that she watches with her rooster Ethel and condensed milk.
Meanwhile, in New York, the lonely forty-four year-old Max Jerry
Horowitz has Asperge Syndrome and trouble to sleep and is obese since
he eats chocolate hot-dogs to compensate his anxiety. He frequently
goes to the Overeaters Anonymous Meeting. Max does not have any friend,
only the invisible Mr. Ravioli, and also loves The Noblets. His life
goals are to have a friend, Noblets and chocolate. One day, Mary picks
Max address out of an American phone-book and she decides to write to
him to ask from where babies come in America. Along their lives, they
become pen pals and their unusual friendship oscillates due to the
anxiety attacks of the unstable Max.

"Mary and Max" is an unforgettable and heartbreaking bleak tale of
friendship and loneliness. The story is bittersweet and witty, with an
ironic black humor and provokes the most conflictive emotions in the
viewers, funny in a moment, and depressive in the other. The excellent
animation follows the dark style of Tim Burton and the screenplay is a
profound insight in human behavior. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Mary and Max Â– Uma Amizade Diferente" ("Mary and Max Â–
A Different Friendship")
<|_=00=_|>
Oscar winning (and proudly gay) animation artist Adam Elliot's
acclaimed clay-mation feature film "Mary & Max" is astoundingly
rewarding wonderful entertainment on the big screen. 

It's an intriguing tale, starting in the mid seventies, of the ongoing
true friendship of two long distance pen-pals, younger Mary in rural
Australia and older Max in the rat-race of New York City. A significant
element of the story involves Max's experience of living with Asperger
Syndrome, knowing painfully full well that he senses the world in a
radically different way to most. I've never seen any other project deal
so honestly and powerfully with that condition. It's a genuine
celebration of the value of difference.

There's lots to laugh and think about - and the attention to detail is
staggering. Australia's living legend Barry Humphries excels as the
narrator. 

I loved the soundtrack which strongly featured two of my favourite
Penguin Cafe Orchestra compositions. I've ordered the soundtrack CD
already.
<|_=00=_|>
A couple of claymation misfits who are worlds apart, form an unlikely
dialog, in a pre-Internet age where it takes weeks to get a reply.

There is a growing trend amongst publishers and in Hollywood, where the
writer is strongly urged to rather show the story rather than tell it.
This is fine for certain works, especially action films, but I
personally believe that the aforementioned edict is a steaming pile of
moronic dribble. People are more than intelligent enough to garner rich
satisfaction from being provided a story in any form as long as the
story itself holds interest. Its worked fine for all the classics in
literature, most of which are still being read in droves, but many
believe that audiences are stupid and need to shown everything and must
capture their attention in the first five seconds. Indeed, most
manuscripts are rejected based upon their first page, a ridiculous
scenario.

In this case, there is much in the way of telling via the voice-over of
the wondrous Barry Humphries and yet the visuals provide us with an
extra layer on information, working with the voice-over rather than
being hindered by it. Occasionally it goes on too long, but Adam Elliot
is incredibly brave in wanting to tell this story his way. Aside from
stylistic similarities to his earlier shorts, he has remained true to
himself. He thanks a lot of people in regards to his script; its clear
he has made the effort to get it right, proving the basic notion in
screen writing, is to get right on the page first folks. The script is
a gem, finding the humor in a rather grim tale, without ever being
patronizing to the characters or their plight. If anything, he manages
to reinforce their humanity.

The choice of music is ideal, setting a tone that is complimentary and
yet as though these classical pieces were designed specifically for
this wide, but often claustrophobic gray universe. I hope audiences
embrace it on the big screen as there is glorious detail lurking in the
background, providing an extra chuckle or irony for the keen eye. If
there was ever a reason to leave the home theater, this is it. Mary and
Max is a brilliant, entertaining work of visual art combined with depth
and grace.

There was a couple of moments when I raised eyebrows at certain things
that didn't fit correctly for the late seventies, such as the mention
of Stephen Hawking as well as cigarette patches (which debuted in the
early 90's) but otherwise this laugh out loud, tear to the eye unique
celluloid experience is one of the standouts of the year.
