
When the box office figures for the US came in this weekend I was
absolutely horrified! Sure I expected I Am Legend to do well, but the
amount that Alvin and the Chipmunks got ($40+ million!) seemed absurd.
Added to that the fact that it had earned more than Golden Compass did
in its opening weekend just seemed ludicrous. The trailers I had seen
seemed very mediocre and I wasn't looking forward to seeing it that
much. So what a surprise, and a delightful one, to say how much I
really enjoyed the movie. Sure its a kids movie through and through,
and if you're not into talking animals then you will come out of this
movie and criticise its plot, script and usual more adult things that
critics criticise about. But if you go in willing to sit back and enjoy
the movie you will realise there is a lot to enjoy. The three leads
themselves, Alvin, Simon and Theodore if you've never seen the
Chipmunks before, are all very likable and have some hilarious moments.
The movie features consistent humour that ranges from fart jokes for
kids, to some really subtle references, most notably one to Die Hard
where for one moment I thought Alvin was going to complete his Yipee
Kiyay moment and make the parents gasp in horror, he doesn't so don't
get too excited. The script itself is pretty decent, there are the
obligatory clunky sentimental bits, but generally the movie is
consistent and full of laughs. It does outstay its welcome admittedly
and feels that little bit too long, but these are mere quibbles as this
is a movie that is bound to entertain many kids and adults alike, and
the fact this did better than Golden Compass no longer frustrates me,
as this is admittedly a much better movie than Golden Compass.

The three leads of the movies are CGI creations, they are also
surprisingly voice by Justin Long (Alvin), Matthew Gray Gubler (Simon)
and Jesse McCartney (Theodore), though you'd never know as obviously
their voices have been morphed so they sound much more like the
Chimpunks. Anyway their voices sound perfect, Theodore's being the most
distinct and will make many audiences world wide sit their and go awww.
Alvin is a great lead and has some brilliant moments. Simon is the most
dull of the three but has some pretty funny moments as well. But its
when the three start singing the movie just comes to life, the
Chimpunks Christmas song definitely gave the older members of the
audience to relish in, and their rendition of Funky Town is by far the
highlight of the movie. The actual adult cast themselves are pretty
decent. Jason Lee, from My Name is Earl, is a decent enough lead and at
least does better than the adult actors in Garfield who seem almost
asleep. When the sentimental stuff kicks in admittedly he does stumble
a little bit, but generally Lee is on top form and definitely isn't
always overshadowed by the chipmunks. David Cross does the traditional
villain role pretty well, although he does start to irritate after a
while and when he goes into pure evil mode later on in the film he just
seems a bit silly. But by far the worst character in the movie has to
be Claire, played by Cameron Richardson, she is out of place in this
movie and the romance thing never plays off at all.

Where Alvin and the Chimpmunks succeeds where movies such as Garfield
and Scooby Doo have failed is the fact it succeeds in the comedy
department. Sure the movie has its nostalgia factor, but if it wasn't
funny then the movie would be a disaster. Thankfully this is a very
funny movie. The fart jokes are obviously aimed at kids, but thankfully
there aren't that many of them, in fact when you compare this to
something like Garfield you realise how well the scriptwriters have
done keeping this to a minimum. Slapstick is obviously a big part but
done very well and there are many set pieces that will please
audiences. The songs as I have said are definitely the highlights and
as I've said before the Funky Town rendition is just pitch perfect.
There are many one liners to be found as well amongst amongst some of
the clunkers that appear later on. The sentimental scenes also are not
as horrific as some more recent family movies have been. In fact some
of the scenes generally do warm your heart.

Overall Alvin and the Chimpunks is a surprisingly good movie that is
definitely something parents should take their kids to see this
Christmas. While maybe not as good as Enchanted this is definitely
better than Golden Compass, and kids will lap this up. So the
obligatory sequel that will arrive seems perhaps a more joyful event
then it seemed before I saw this movie. In fact a sequel now seems
quite a decent idea.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Three chipmunk brothers, Alvin, Simon, and Theodore are
living their lives in the forest storing nuts away for the winter when
one day their tree is cut down and carried off into the city to become
a Christmas tree. They must find a new home and they end up at Dave's
house. The only thing that makes them different is that they can talk
and even sing. Dave Seville (Jason Lee) is a struggling song writer who
has a great idea about making the chipmunks a new show act, singing his
songs. The only thing is that you must remember is that they are
chipmunks and they act like chipmunks by tearing up Dave's house and
interrupting his love life. However, they also begin to bond as a
family with Dave becoming like a Dad. The chipmunks become a big hit
and superstars with cute voices and fancy dance moves. The record
company executive Ian (David Cross) sees big money in his future and
takes over the act and pushes Dave to the side. Dave must try to save
his little family before they becomes a show biz disaster.

(My Comment) I enjoyed this movie because it brought back good
memories. I can't believe that their first song was recorded 50 years
ago. They have that certain sound that just makes you smile when you
hear them. You recognize their sound immediately. The animated
characters of Alvin, Simon, and Theodore are lovable now as they were
50 years ago. I always liked it when Dave would scream the name of
"Aaaaalviiiiiiiinnnnnnnnnnn!!!" and Alvin would say "OooooK!!!" Those
two words just make you smile. Children of all ages can see this movie
without any problem. I am sure that all the parents will like it, and I
know your child will, because it is a fun movie. (20th Century Fox, Run
Time 1:30, Rated PG) (8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm surprised at the disappointing reviews of this film. I can agree
that Jason Lee wasn't the perfect person to play Dave but he still did
a pretty good job. I mean, let's be honest here and admit that none of
the acting is great in this movie. It isn't horrible but it isn't great
either. The thing is that the acting is on par for 90% of kids films.
Also, how much can we really expect when it is a story about 3 singing
chipmunks? The delight of the film and what people (my family anyway)
want to see is the chipmunks get down and boogie. This movie in my mind
accomplished everything and more that it might have set out to
accomplish. It is extremely funny at times and also has a few heart
felt moments. The overall story was very good. There are some morals
taught here and you don't always see that with these types of movies.
If you are in for some slapstick chipmunk boogie and rock and roll then
check this out. I can almost guarantee you that any kid under 12 will
love it and it is still enjoyable for adults.
<|_=00=_|>
I grew up watching the 80's version of the chipmunks, so when I first
saw the trailer to this predictable but cute live-action update, I was
somewhat happy. Although I knew that the humor would be targeted at a
crowd under 10 years old, I still wanted to see it, especially since
the 1980's animated film THE CHIPMUNK ADVENTURE is still one of my
all-time favorite animated films.

THE PROS: Well I went and saw it, and my expectations were met. It was
more for younger kids, but it was throughly enjoyable. It was good to
hear the Chipmunks sing their classic Christmas song, there were plenty
of funny (but not hilarious) moments, and the Chipmunks themselves were
well-animated and undeniably adorable (particularly Theodore).

THE CONS: The story is predictable (although typical for most kid's
films nowadays). Jason Lee is badly miscast as the Chipmunks'
long-suffering songwriter and adopted father, David Seville. Also the
"romance" between Dave and his neighbor is too clich√©d. We don't need
some sort of love story in every single film in my opinion.

Overall, there is nothing brilliant about this film, but it's still
fun. It ought to please young children and their parents.

BOTTOM LINE: It's no Citizen Kane, but it's more fun than a Hula Hoop.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes things need to keep away from the 'big screen'. And this is
one of those instances where cartoon is better as cartoon in 30 minute
segments rather than a 90 minute CGI. Just like with the movie
Garfield, the movie doesn't do anybody justice.

I guess the creators thought it would be cute for the Chipmunks to sing
lots of popular music numbers created within the last 10 years. But I
found nothing amusing with the destruction of songs I knew. Nor did I
really feel there was any character development between Dave and his
love interest. And where were the Chipettes? 

The plot was corny and unbelievable. Somehow for the Chipmunks to
attain such success rather quickly is just Hollywood interpreting life
in an highly unrealistic way. Not only that, but it felt too
superficial and boring. I wish kids would watch something else than
this waste of time. "F"
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with semi-high expectations after loving the
cartoon series in my childhood, and this nearly wrecked that love for
me. Jason Lee, David Seville in the film, is horrifying. I understand
it can't be easy to act with CGI characters who aren't actually there,
but I really found his performance atrocious, along with all the other
non-animated characters. The chipmunks were adorable, yet sometimes
blatantly obvious at moving the plot of the story along, and therefore
did not tempt me to stay in the theater for longer than half an hour
into the film. If you feel you must see this film, rent it, at the
most. It is NOT worth eight bucks to see it in theaters, unless you'd
like a good laugh at the horrible acting.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why people has rated this animation such low. By the way
to my own opinion this is a great animation. I am giving 10/10 against
all other votes to take this one least 0.01 up. The things I see in
this animation,

Chipmunk's actions, so cute, so impressionable. The characteristic of
each of the chipmunks has been created very carefully, and it is
consistence through out the film. The story shows us the real business
world behind the music world. The movie is very sensitive. This is a
very good animation effort. Please study this film and take your own
decision.
<|_=00=_|>
Gotta kid? Then you know all about this movie cause that is all you
hear about. It is all I heard about for the last week and so I finally
saw it with my cousin who is a mother to a 7 year old- she really
wanted to see it first. So, let me say this: There will be no problem
letting her 7 year old watch it.

I kinda enjoyed it too seeing how I had to be dragged to it. But once
there I was not bored and there seemed to be a crowd that apparently
was expecting a treat of some kind as several appeared to be veterans
of earlier showings who had then gone out and grabbed their posse to
watch it again (only with them this time).

Nice way to spend a Saturday with the kids and grab a laugh or three.
Anyway, I'll give it a thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
Alvin and the chipmunks. I guess just about anyone that has ever
watched television cartoons knows them. Right before their 50th
birthday they make another appearance, this time on the cinema screen
in a film that just like Garfield (2004) combines live actors and
computer graphics. The story of the film is no new one: a guy becomes
the more or less unwilling host to the chipmunks as their tree is
demolished and together they roll from one adventure into the other.

For the rest there is not much to tell about this film. It is worked
out well enough and most kids will enjoy it. I know the one I watched
it with did. It isn't half bad for the adults either. Graphics have
been done well enough and the actors work with it well enough to make a
nicely working film. Storyline is rather straightforward and very
predictable, but not really to the point of being irritating.

All in all, typical children's film that works out well enough for the
younger audience and that doesn't put the parents to sleep right from
the start 6 out of 10 chipmunks singing
<|_=00=_|>
Wow this movie SUCKED! I can't believe I actually wasted 92 of my
minutes on this piece of Sh*t movie! I'm surprised this film didn't get
any golden razzie awards, or a "Worst film of 2007" award, because
that's exactly what this film deserves! how can a movie this bad get
merchandise??! plushy toys?? action figures?? and a video game?? what's
this world coming to?? it just doesn't make sense to me anymore... This
movie appeals to STUPID people, and stupid people only! I'm not even
going to go into full detail as to why movie actually sucks! and i'm
not even going to explain what happens in this godawful film! I'm just
going to recommend you stay far AWAY from this pathetic atrocity of a
"Film", trust me, I do NOT want any of you wasting your 92 minutes on
this film the same way I did, because this sh*tty movie has NO
redeeming values whatsoever, and it's not even in the "So bad it's
Good" category, just take my word and stay AWAY from this awful "kids
film", you'll regret it.

Oh, and to to all the people defending this film, saying "oh come on,
this film isn't that bad" or "This is a good family film" you idiots
need to shut up and get a better taste in movies.
