
The same people who to me are surprisingly rudely negative about this
film would probably say I'm too easily pleased, but I enjoy movies as
escapism for the most part and see no need to pick this very enjoyable
vehicle to death. Actually, some early negatives I'd read had me
worried that I would be irritated I spent the money, instead I've
already decided to buy this when it comes out.

Overall, I'd say if you like romping easy movies like The Mummy,
National Treasure, and Lake Placid you'll like this, plus refreshingly
(without being sickeningly sweet) there is not one swear word or
sexed-up scene, so take the older kids and Grandma. I thought Nicolas
Cage was excellent, he looked great and can wear a leather duster
better than most, and there was some nice chemistry between Cage and
Baruchel. Alred Molina looked like he was having fun and is such an
enjoyable villain. Baruchel does a good job - he is so geeky at times
it is a tad painful - and I found myself rooting for him. The 2 main
female characters are lovely and appealing personalities.

More pluses: A lively pace and I never lost interest plus a fair number
of laughs. Some interesting character twists with the oily young
rock-star magician helping Molina, and some very funny cheeky nods to
the original animated Fanatasia - watch for the nod to Star Wars. Great
and interesting special effects that made sense when they were used.
Even the way the actors moved when they were doing magic was very good
(for some reason the wand-waving in Harry Potter sometimes reminds me
of people using a flyswatter or shaking a bug off a stick, that didn't
happen in this film).

So no, this isn't some classic of cinema, it is what it is and is a bit
thin here and there, but it's also quite good for a "magical romp" and
is in no way a bad film or a waste of money. I could have done without
the occasional background songs which seemed designed to emphasize
romantic angst or appeal to young teenagers, but that was bearable. I
saw this at an early evening show and there were not many people in the
theater, but we all laughed and there was applause at the end, and we
left the theater smiling. Personally I think the critics panning this
are full of BS or are trying to prove what intellectuals they are. In
the meantime see this with your family or take your friends, and then
go out and get some ice cream and sit outside and enjoy summer. Hope
they make a sequel, too.
<|_=00=_|>
Dueling sorcerers, a compelling back-story, top-notch acting talent,
and the Disney brand bring the idea born of Fantasia's Sorcerer's
Apprentice to the big screen in a live full movie adaptation. While
this film did not fully live up to its potential, it is a fun movie
which will find its way into the collection.

This is silly and sappy just like any other live action Disney movie,
and if allowed, will worm its way into the heart in a disingenuous way.
If you view this film expecting Casablanca or the Godfather, you WILL
be unimpressed. But if you go in expecting to be entertained, you
shouldn't be disappointed.

The action sequences between Cage and Molina aren't elevated as much as
many would expect, due to the story centering around the kid's battle,
not Balthazar's. This is another standard Disney formula wherein the
kid is undeserving, unprepared, and uneducated in the ways of the
Samurai but is thrust into the center of the fray, regardless. Those
who would rail against this formula, obviously weren't there to see a
Disney movie.

All in all? The five of us ranging in age from 45 to 15, loved it. It
is clever, and creative, marrying the science of magic known by today's
standards with the arcane stories of our past. I found it intriguing
and adventurous enough not to be preachy, while still managing to
educate even the most unwilling movie goer.

It rates an 8.4/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
Jay B. is funny and charming in a believably nerdy fashion; Cage is at
his quirky but charismatic best; the effects are plentiful and top
notch; there's both a tragic love story and a young cute one plus a
healthy dose of clever references to Disney's epic Fantasia (from which
this film is partially inspired). If you read this list of attributes
and it caught your interest and like the idea of centuries old
sorcerers doing battle across New York in spectacular fashion then it
wont matter what any other review says, you're going to want to check
this flick out. It's funny, the cast is likable and there's a freaking
dragon tearing up Chinatown (and that isn't even the finale!). On the
other hand if all of this made you cringe, well nothing is going to
persuade you to see it either. The truth is SORCERER'S APPRENTICE is
fairly predictable, and the opening few minutes suffer a great deal
from a completely distracting (and not needed) bit of narration but it
is also solid matin√©e fun that I know I (and apparently the theater of
folks I saw it with) really enjoyed.
<|_=00=_|>
The kids & I were trying kill some time while Mom had a baking party at
the house so we went to this with zero expectations. I was very
pleasantly surprised. Nicolas Cage does a great job at the sorcerer who
is looking for the "Prime Merlinian". He is the sorcerer who will
inherit Merlin's powers. Our hero (David) is of course that person. The
fun is in Cage's ability to be annoyed with the kid and like him at the
same time. The CGI is enough to enhance the story but not overwhelm it.
All four of my kids (ages 4-11) liked it. Some parts might be a little
scary but not too bad (a dragon clomping around is all). Fun family
flick.

PS I also liked that the hero held a door for a girl. I pointed that
out to my boys who need to learn that.
<|_=00=_|>
Believe it or not, this is actually a pretty good movie. I was annoyed
with a few aspects of the movie such as my extreme annoyance with Jay
Baruchel. But I think Nic Cage carried the movie. He is a very talented
actor and he proves it in each movie he's in whether it's good or bad.

This is about wizard named Balthazar who lives in modern day New York
City. He has been searching for many centuries for the perfect kid who
would be finally be his apprentice. He finally meets that kid and he
trains him to be the one to save the world.

The acting is pretty good. Of course Nic Cage is more than good. I was
also impressed at Alfred Molina. Jay Baruchel is very annoying here. I
just wanted to punch him in the face.

People compare this movie for some reason to Harry Potter. I'll say now
that this is no Potter. This film is no masterpiece like the Potter
series but it still is good.

Overall, this is a pretty good family movie. I would turn a deaf ear to
the critics and watch this. I rate this film 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, this is entertaining and well done. The effects are not
revolutionary but at least fit in to the story rather than detract from
it. No violence or mayhem - its OK for a younger to general audience.
Main fault is the hero Dave played by Jay Baruchel isn't up to the
part.

The script is pleasant if predictable - does the nerd hero rise to the
task and vanquish the evil forces. There could have been more
historical witches besides Abigail Williams of Salem. There are some
humorous bits but not too many.

Acting is better than expected. Nicholas Cage is quite good more
serious and less horsey than usual. Monica looks a little older and has
too little screen time. Alfred Molina is convincing without being
annoying. Alice Krige (Morgana) is good and looks young. Teresa Palmer
(Becky) the girlfriend acts and looks like a blonde Kristen Stewart.

The main problem is Jay Baruchel (Dave) is a too geeky to the point of
spastic sometimes. It is painful to watch him. He lacks charm and
charisma nerdy or otherwise. He is not a cute geek. He speaks like he
has a speech impediment. Would have been better with someone more like
Shia Labeouf, Justin Long or Michael Angarano if they wanted one of the
new nerd/geek heroes.
<|_=00=_|>
What film, filled with fantasy, magic AND physics, mild horror,
adventure, humour, great action and special effects? Why it's Disney's
The Sorcerer's Apprentice of course. Starring Nicolas Cage and hometown
(Montreal/Canadian) boy Jay Baruchel.

"The Sorcercer's Apprentice" made its Canadian debut on Thursday July
8th, as the opening film feature at the commencement of the 14th
edition of the Montreal Fantasia Film Festival, hosted, as it has been
for the past several years by Concordia University.

In one of the venue's largest theaters, about 700 of us were treated to
the screening of said film, in advance of its opening next Wednesday,
July 14th.

And what a treat it was.

After the general Festival opening announcements, Jay Baruchel (who was
in attendance) introduced the film to the happy hometown audience. Then
we sat back and allowed the magic to unfold.

Without giving too much (or anything) away, I can safely say that The
Sorcercer's Apprentice was indeed an enjoyable film.

Nic Cage made good as the "just a bit" crazy master sorcerer Balthazar
Blake, on the quest to find the one who could be the next to acquire
Merlin's magic and defeat the evil Morgana.

And Baruchel proved to be well cast as the nerdy, endearing, reluctant
hero / apprentice.

With a nice, balanced blend of action, adventure and pretty cool
special effects. The film takes the viewer on a fun ride, reminiscent
of classic Disney fun family fare. And it'd also no doubt leave you
laughing out loud at some unexpected moments in dialogue.

If you enjoyed The National Treasure movies, then you will certainly
enjoy The Sorcerer's Apprentice.
<|_=00=_|>
This Disney movie is fun and the effects are first grade.

Nicolas Cage is good as expected. Same goes to Alfred Molina and it's
always nice to see Monica Bellucci.

BUT, there is one BIG problem and that is Jay Baruchel. Why, o why,
they had to put him into this movie? He ruined it completely with his
annoying appearance, voice and, above all, irritating
not-at-all-talented acting. They should have find different actor for
this role. I don't have someone in mind but this one is very wrong.
Without him it would be a much better movie.

But, it's still entertaining, in spite of occasional not funny jokes
which are forced into scenario. The story is bearable and neat effects
pulls it out of average, slightly.
<|_=00=_|>
Rating: **1/2 out of 4. 

I had little to no expectations for Disney's latest animated-to-live-
action translation THE SORCERER'S APPRENTICE. It looked like
serviceable popcorn entertainment; lots of jarring CGI effects and
slapstick humor. Turns out it's true that minimal expectations help in
seeing a movie in its own terms and, as family-film trifle, APPRENTICE
delivers, if not much else.

Exposition abounds when we are introduced to the plot, which opens in
700 A.D., where great Wizard Merlin is killed by his evil adversary
Morgana (Alice Krige, in it for only a few minutes), and passes his
legacy to one of his young apprentices, Balthazar (holy smoke! It's
Nicholas Cage!). Before his death, Merlin hands him a tiny dragon
statuette which turns into a ring which would determine the great
wizard's heir. Oh yeah, Balthazar also traps the souls of other
wizards, including the evil Morgana and sweetheart Monica Bellucci
(barely in it for other than being, well, Monica Bellucci) inside a
nesting doll called the Grimhold. Forward a thousand centuries later
and Balthazar, still in search of the bearer of Merlin's gifts, finally
comes upon a boy named Dave Stutler (who is what else? A total nerd!).
Forward a few years more and Dave, now a geeky teenager (Jay Baruchel),
is now ready to be trained with the Magical Arts (which, the movie
explains, is actually more connected to modern science than we thought)
and save the world. 

Whew! That's a lot of plot exposition for a movie based around a
segment in Disney's Fantasia (with Mickey Mouse no less!). And it moves
so quickly from one situation to the other. But better to throw in
dozens of special effects and action sequence. The special effects are
nothing new; the CGI reeks of CGI circa 1990. But this comes off a
charm. With so many movies around throwing out fantasy for realism
(meaning lots of shaky "you are there" camera work), THE SORCERER'S
APPRENTICE is a pretty close throwback to some of those 80's
effects-heavy fantasy movies usually associated with Lucas' Industrial
Light and Magic effects house (the film reminds most of the
effects-laden YOUNG SHERLOCK HOLMES when I saw the trailer). It's not
so much as true movie magic than simply throwing in as much effects as
they can to substitute for a lackluster action-oriented story.

The actors aren't in such bad shape. Cage, who's been on the slums
lately, is pretty good here though it's a bit of a stretch to call it
an improvement over some of his previous roles. But he does have more
fun here and I had more fun with him here; it's in this role did I get
the feeling that he knows very well that he looks ridiculous and goes
to hell with it. Same goes for Alfred Molina, turning in deliciously
campy baddie with an accent Horvath. These two guys do better than the
rest of the younger members. Baruchel is trying too hard to be your
total loser- turned-hero character when he really shouldn't. He seemed
fine doing voice-over in HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON, but he can't bring
the role from animated world to reality. Teresa Palmer is your typical
girl-of-your- dreams leading dame. Some actors (Bellucci, Krige) barely
makes what passes as appearances. 

THE SORCEROR'S APPRENTICE is fun, and at a time where movies like these
fail to deliver such simple mercies, it's a pleasant little surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
First I should start off saying I love all Jerry Bruckheimer
productions, with the exception of CSI: Miami, but that is more David
Caruso then the show. I also feel I should admit that I was excited
about this movie since I first saw the previews.

That being said I felt the movie was very well put together in some
ways not so much in others. I never read reviews until after I see a
movie to be able to make my own ideas about it. Then I check to see it
I'm in the minority. I'm shocked to say in this film I was. I felt that
Nicholas Cage and Jay Baruchel did very well with the parts they were
given. I do wish they had more screen time to gel a little better.
Alfred Molina as usual does a wonderful job as the evil villain, but I
wish his apprentice Toby Kebbell got more screen time. Some of the love
story plot could have been given up for more magic scenes. I felt that
Dave and Becky didn't really need all that screen time. I feel the
movie is geared toward a younger audiences so to compare it to
Inception is unfair no 10 year old is going to get that plot what so
ever. Yes it was very predictable to me but not to my 5 year old
sitting next to me. I went in expecting a well acted, predictable, easy
plot, with some things that would make me chuckle, And that's exactly
what I got.

Overall the plot was easily understandable, the actions a little
predictable, and the chemistry a little off with some of the
characters. However give it a break I'm 23 and a mother of 4, and with
all the children's movies I have seen this summer this is one I will
actually buy when it come to DVD.

Also I just have to say I love the main song Secrets by Onerepublic I
have had it stuck in my head since I left the theater!
