
Upon first viewing the trailer I was immediately giddy to see a new
post-apocalyptic film in the vein of The Road Warrior. Being a fan of
the genre, one must get used to the repetitive "lone wanderer" theme so
prominently used. I figured this film would go through the same
formula, but prepared to enjoy myself.

Yes it did use the lone wanderer as a driving plot device, and yes it
did bring the arbitrary twist. Yes all the survivors are short on
t-shirts, but live in a wealth of leather and goggles. Yes everything
in this film looks like and feels like a typical post-apocalyptia. But
the substance of the story is far more powerful then I could ever have
expected.

Without giving away too much, yes the film is essentially a Christian
metaphor. Eli seems to be protected by some mysterious force, guided by
"God" to head west. But it's what the meaning behind this admittedly
bizarre plot that makes this film so great. It truly is a film about
faith and believing in one's self. Using the dreary post-apocalyptic
backdrop, the film is able to contrast this powerful message with the
harsh landscape. Even amidst such despair, one can rise and accomplish
anything. In a world slowly becoming apocalyptic itself, this message
is much welcomed.

The other aspects lending to the power of The Book of Eli are its
technical aspects. The cinematography is simply beautiful. Moody slo-mo
shots abound with wonderfully toned colors. Everything looks dark and
dead, the sun beating down endlessly on the dusty dunes. The soundtrack
adds immensely to this feeling, using soft ambient chords and blasting
action-scene drums when necessary. Overall The Book of Eli is an
excellent film itself and an excellent spin on the post-apocalyptic
genre. 

Oh yeah, and Denzel Washington actually manages to pull off the part of
a wizened, old bad ass.
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure how much the church was involved with this project, but it
seems as though it was funded almost entirely by the church. And maybe
Oprah. If not, the church should provide the people who made this movie
with free blessings for a year - or whatever.

This movie uses misleading advertising to draw us in. (which goes
against the messaging in the movie....) What we expect is an
apocalyptic thriller with a super strong survivor trying to make his
way through life. We know from the advertising that he has a book he
must protect - but we are not told that it is a bible. The last bible.

The movie progresses normally for about the first 1/3rd or so. And then
the propaganda begins. Despite Eli's best efforts, his friend and the
villains become aware that he has a bible. The villain wants the bible
to begin a cult in his own name, Eli wants the bible because a voice
told him to go to a place where the book was, and then, vaguely, to go
west. He reads it every day. The premise of the film is that he
followed the voices instructions, found the book, and has been walking
west for the past 30 years. (it seems Eli could have used some help
from Forrest Gump) The movie devolves into actions segments spaced
between dialog about the bible and faith. If that is your thing enjoy.
My feeling on it was that the acting was not bad, the feel established
by the cinematography for the movie was good but overall this film was
a transparent vehicle for religious cheer leading and not much more.
<|_=00=_|>
The Book of Eli has the potential to be a great film or complete
rubbish depending on your expectations of what is to come. If you are
looking for a film with some deeper meaning then I would not recommend
it. However, if you are looking for a film with beautiful
cinematography, solid acting and a little bit of fun action then you
will be pleased.

The key in watching the film is to not buy into the plot too much,
which is where the viewer is going to be disappointed. The ending is a
little far fetched and I couldn't help but roll my eyes. Although I
honestly don't see a particularly good ending for the basic premise of
the film.

If you are able to put the silliness with the story behind you, the
film is wonderfully done. There is great camera work with interesting
angles and framing; the set showcases the contrast between the stark
light of the sun and the shadows where humankind is hiding; and the
acting makes you want to buy into the characters and their conflicts.

I would recommend seeing the film, just don't get too involved with the
story. Instead concentrate on the acting and the scene.
<|_=00=_|>
Everybody's talking about what happens after the apocalypse these days. 
"The Book of Eli" is sort of the boiling point of this science-fiction 
concept, a combination of last year's "The Road" and George Miller's 
"The Road Warrior." America is a post-apocalyptic wasteland and Denzel 
Washington is the only self-sufficient badass. So originality is not 
exactly "Eli's" calling card, but it clearly establishes its ruinous 
world and the Hughes brothers ("From Hell") take good care of its 
characters while supplying top-notch action.

Washington stars as our stolid protagonist, Eli, journeying westward 
with his canteen, a large machete, a couple guns and a special 
leather-bound book. He lives on an Earth that was fried 30 years before 
by the sun because of a war that ripped a hole through the ozone layer. 
Sun-goggled bikers run amok pillaging, killing and raping passers-by, 
yet Eli is morally sound and focused on keeping his book safe no matter 
what so he can deliver it somewhere out west.

Although written by a first-time screenwriter and former PC Gamer 
editor, Gary Whitta, "Eli" impressively creates its world between the 
sunglasses/goggles due to the sun's power, trading of goods because 
money's obsolete and the constant examining of hands to determine if 
someone is jittery from eating too much human flesh. Whitta also places 
Eli squarely in the story. He's a good but dangerous man who's not 
afraid to kill, and as he sits idly by as a couple gets attacked, it's 
abundantly clear that this is a world where compassion is secondary to 
survival and self-interest.

Where the plot comes in is "Eli's" weak link. It doesn't try too hard 
to hide just what exactly the book is and that sort of dissolves some 
of the film's mystique. The plot is essentially Eli wants to protect it 
and take it west and he has a run in with Carnegie (Gary Oldman), an 
older man who runs a small town and desires it for selfish 
power-related reasons. Along the way, anyone who threatens to lay a 
hand on Eli gets sliced up or shot. In the two or three fight scenes 
where he takes down numerous guys at once, you can't help but wonder 
why after he kills the first few guys, the others don't run the hell 
away, especially considering people are otherwise in self-preservation 
mode living in a wasteland (and they know nothing of the book).

The Hughes brothers make those scenes worthwhile, however. There's a 
style and grace to their action scenes -- they create a sort of a 
moving tableau in some scenes and execute a wide range of tempos in the 
action sequences to make them more intense. When Carnegie's men 
encounter Eli and the young woman (Mila Kunis) that he inspires who 
follows him at the home of some old folks (cameos by famous Brits 
Frances De La Tour and Michael Gambon), they place the camera in the 
middle of the action and sweep along with the gunfire (part- digitally) 
from one side to the other. It's very cool and is an example of one way 
the Hugheses keep the focus away from the plot's shaky skeleton. I only 
have beef with their excessive slow-motion walking-toward-the-camera 
shots and showing a bit too much of the cloudy green-gray sky.

Some people are going to be more surprised and impressed with the 
film's big reveal than others, but anyone with a love of action and 
that post-apocalyptic context will find something to make "Eli" a 
worthwhile watch regardless of plot weakness. Washington is slightly 
under-utilized but he's an ideal fit. He brings an intensity in his 
demeanor that makes him an intriguing character and the film does a 
good job of making his character more central than anything else.

~Steven C

<|_=00=_|>
I have to agree with one reviewer that stated the movie should have
ended with the shot of Eli's eyes. Solara becoming the next warrior is
ridiculous. The actors were fine but why doesn't Denzel Washington
realize that most of the movie doesn't make sense. He uses his bow in
the first scene and takes the arrow. After that we don't see where he
carries his bow until he needs it later in the film. He has his
backpack emptied a couple of times and no shells for his guns or bow is
seen. After killing the 2 guys he didn't take his arrows. Eli then
tells Solara to take down the bow and wind up the bowstring and he is
carrying 1 arrow. In the next scene the bow and arrow are absent. In
the opening scene the sky is ominous and an eerie green with particles
falling from the sky. At the end of the movie Alcatraz has blue skies,
clouds and grass. Am I expected to think it took Eli 30 years to walk
across the US? Were those plastic wrapped twinkies that he was sharing
with Solara? How would they have tasted 30 years later? Would someone
explain how he got out of the locked room (I missed that part)? The
house where they were in the shootout with Carnegie and his henchmen
was completely full of bullet holes except where the old couple and
Eli/Solara were standing. When Solara causes the vehicle she's in to
crash how does Eli's blade (which was on the dashboard) get embedded
completely to the hilt in Redridge's chest? Is the woman hijacker (with
the grocery cart) the same as the second one nearer to the end of the
movie? If so how does she get a new gang (since Eli has killed all of
her first friends) and get further down the road towards Alcatraz for
Solara and Eli to meet again? To have the same ambush using a woman
crying with a grocery cart seems lazy to me. Now after dictating the
entire bible (with a big hole in his gut/chest) the bible is printed,
leather bound and gold leafed only to be placed on a shelf where no one
is going to read it. I'm glad for those who enjoyed the movie. It just
has too many questionable and unbelievable scenes which caused my
frustration. And I wish people would stop comparing this sham of a
movie to 'The Road'.
<|_=00=_|>
I am always hesitant when movies come out in January or February. The
Oscar buzz is about last year's performances and the summer
blockbusters are still five months away. So, when movies come out this
time of the year there is a distinct possibility that the movie is
going to have a weak story line and sub par acting. This is not the
case with "The Book of Eli." For a January movie  it exceeded my
expectations.

I have respect for both Denzel Washington and Gary Oldman and their
choice of past roles. Gary's role in this film was that of the old bad
guy running a small western front town 30 years after a nuclear war (I
am assuming it was nuclear war, they only vaguely described what
happened). He sends his traveling bandits out of town to find the last
Bible on earth. He does this because with the last Bible on earth he
can reestablish civilization under his reign. It does seem far-fetched
but then again it is a January movie so I will cut it some slack. Gary
did a great job, reminded me a little of his bad guy character in "The
Professional," but he wasn't over the top with his acting, only when he
needed to be.

On to Denzel, who did another great job. He reminded me of Clint
Eastwood in his western movies where he didn't say much because he
didn't have to. Denzel's actions spoke for him. That leads us into the
action sequences. The Hughes Brothers delivered the action with a
wallop and without a lot of blood and guts. The first fight scene
looked like five silhouettes fighting a shadow of a man. There's also a
shoot out scene where they used some pretty innovative camera shots to
put the viewer into the action. The action was quick and to the point
and just as important, it was memorable.

We covered the actors and the action, so what about the story? The
story could have taken place in the Old West just as it could have
taken place in an apocalyptic future. It was simple and didn't have
many confusing elements to it. The premise was to get that Bible.
Denzel's job was to head west to deliver the last copy of the Bible to
someone. He does everything in his power to protect the book. Since the
Bible is the main focus of the hunt there are some religious overtones
but nothing too heavy. There is also a good use of humor, something
totally unexpected considering the drabness of the film.

The camera helped in telling much of the story. Through much of the
movie the camera and landscape was all that was needed to carry key
elements in the story. In one scene Mila Kunis' character was attacked
and instead of talking about it afterward, the camera took time to
focus on her reaction to the situation. There are also several shots of
Denzel walking in the desolation showing the audience the ruined
landscape. Dialogue couldn't have added much more.

Should you see this movie? Yes. Even though it won't get Oscar nods or
be the next big summer blockbuster, it will still keep most people
entertained. The ending might make you want to see it a second time to
see what you missed the first time. All I am saying is keep your eyes
open.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I went to see this film last night not knowing much about the
actual plot of it. The start was promising, with some great fight
scenes and on the whole, it was well filmed with some great
cinematography. Washington played his role well, as did Oldman as
Carnegie, however Mila Kunis who anyone who watches 'Family Guy' could
tell was the voice of Meg Griffin wasn't good at all. The fact she is
the voice of Meg also made me unable to take her seriously, but thats
probably just me. I enjoyed the film at the start up until it becomes
apparent that 'the book' is in fact the Bible. The fact that the whole
film was based around this alienated a lot of people who may be atheist
or even if they were Christian, as it was completely hypocritical that
Eli killed maybe 100s of people in order to keep the book. Is this
in-keeping with Christianity? Well, now the ending. It just about had
it for me when we found out that Eli was blind. This put the great
fighting scenes that i mentioned earlier in a poorer light for me, as
we realised he was supposed to be fighting several people single
handedly whilst blind?? Completely ridiculous. as was the fact that he
was shot in the stomach, and then 5 minutes later back on the road with
some duck tape over the wound. On the whole, its maybe worth seeing if
you don't mind contradictory and frankly ridiculous plot twists,
hearing Meg Griffin's voice throughout a supposedly tense and serious
film and of course, if you don't mind killing 100s of people for the
possession of a Bible written in braille.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I love apocalyptic movies, because the possibilities to make a
good movie are endless. Add to that a "lone wolf" character roaming the
wasteland, and things can get even better. 

But, what can we do when these Hollywood geniuses decide to dumb down
the story to such a low level? 

First of all, the Bible is one of the most printed books of human
history one can find a copy of it anywhere. If one can find a shotgun
and shells, rockets, ray-ban sunglasses, and other things shown in the
movie, I am sure that it would be very easy to find a copy of a Bible.
OK, maybe the film was an allegory. But still this is plain stupid.

Second, how a Bible would help humans in a post-apocalyptic world?
People will need books on agriculture, medicine, metallurgy, etc... It
is idiotic to think that all humans need is religion to straighten
things out. 

Third, with a name like that "Eli" one can guess which is the secret
book in the first 30 seconds of the movie...

Fourth, since the book is the Bible how come our "hero", the harbinger
of the sacred word, is willing to kill for it? Don't those guys ever
learn? What about that message of brotherly love, turn the other face,
etc, etc, etc... Only a few chose are deserving of salvation? Come
on...

The only positive thing in the movie is that the "Book of Eli" was not
the Quran. In these politically correct times we do not know what to
expect any more....
<|_=00=_|>
You might be jaded already with a number of big budgeted science
fiction films that are set after some apocalyptic disaster that wiped
out most of humankind, and having the protagonist become some sole,
lonely survivor up against others who have banded together for worse,
and without law and order and faced with severely limited resources to
survive, cannibalism in a wild wild west environment becomes the order
of the day, with those having weapons commanding over those who don't,
and a clean bed, warm food, women and clean water are precious,
tradable commodities.

I assure you that The Book of Eli, despite what so many others have
said, remain refreshing, with Denzel Washington in a charismatic
starring role opposite Gary Oldman back to his villainous best, both
being top draws in the film. Written by Gary Whitta who had fused key
religious elements into science fiction, his effort triumphs against
recent others such as Legion, and gets a better execution by the Hughes
Brothers Albert and Allen who are sorely missed since their last film
From Hell some 9 years ago, a film I enjoyed (despite the butchery
here), bringing back their signature way of telling a tale through
dark, brooding atmospheres. The first few minutes of the film which
introduces Washington's Eli, is nothing short of brilliance relying
solely on his enigmatic, silent presence, clearly surpassing that of
Will Smith's turn in I Am Legend.

Washington's Eli is what carries the film, a man fixated in his sole
mission for some 30 years already, doing so based on one word - faith
and a vision and instruction given unto him. He's the modern day
missionary, executing his god-given task without question, believing
that he fulfills his calling with as little fuss as possible. He truly
believes that he's being protected from harm, and of course that also
meant through the use of a shotgun, pistol and one hack of a machete
(pardon the pun and intentional misspelling), dispatching bandits like
spreading butter on warm toast. As such he's indestructible almost,
giving himself some reputation into a small town he wanders into,
especially when he has in him a possession of the titular book that
seems to hold the hope to mankind's salvation.

And Gary Oldman's Carnegie is the anti-thesis to Eli the messenger. For
Carnegie, possession of the book is key for his power consolidation,
because being able to influence the weak, the desperate and those in
despair, would translate to loyal obedience. And in some ways this is
quite true, in the way the power and influence religion has over the
masses. In fact, Carnegie's explanation to Eli on the need for the
book, is something which you'll find hard to dispute about, because
even if one aspires to be a false prophet, one will require firstly the
scriptures from which to twist from, since groping verses from the air
just doesn't cut it even to the simple minded.

As seen in films like There Will Be Blood, false prophets are abound,
and this is one of the stronger aspects of the film blatantly made so
explicit. You cannot help but to think about the same concept in
today's context, where one's perceived knowledge and ability would
bring about tremendous power and followers because of the seeding of
hope and salvation in one's mind, and top marks given if one can
influentially enslave the mindsets of desperate others through faith,
something which Eli also has problems trying to explain to his new
follower of sorts, Solara (Mila Kunis).

For action junkies, you'll not be left out by the handful of battle
sequences, where the hand to hand combat scenes have Washington showing
off what he had learnt from a student of Bruce Lee, and reportedly
doing so without the use of a stunt double. And if slicing and dicing
opponents in close quarter combat is not your cup of team, there are
also those which are laden with gun fights that just rip everything
apart in their way, although I prefer the more elegant alternative of
the use of the bow and arrows, with the Hughes Brothers knowing a thing
or two about shooting proper action sequences that you can actually
follow comfortably.

Testosterone-laden action aside, In some ways the film also touches
upon the importance of culture, without which we're reduced to nothing
but savages, knowledge being buried in books and encyclopedias that no
longer exist save for those still in collective memory. The final act,
together with its sucker punch makes it all the more satisfying and
poignant even, giving you compelling reason to want to watch this a
second time with that little bit of background knowledge to observe
performance and nuances that had probably gone unnoticed. That said,
there are still a minor loophole here and there, but as Eli puts it,
it's accredited to nothing more than faith. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie explains that the Earth was destroyed because of wars of
religion and that therefore the survivors destroyed every religious
books to prevent from repeating the same disaster. And yet, one man 
Eli played by Denzel Washington  who's supposed to be a good man, a
wise man chooses to preserve one of these religious books which was
partly responsible for almost destroying the Earth!! What's the idea?
He expects this time the job will be done correctly and Earth and
mankind will be destroyed completely? The Hughes brothers are trying to
say that religions are a good thing that can be bad if used by the
wrong people (Gary Oldman's character). Which is a stupid message. The
good question is: do we need religion to live together? The answer is
no because as soon as someone has one religion he rejects anyone having
another religion (or no religion at all). Religious tolerance is a
myth, it does not exist. Man has invented something better than
religions to live together, it's called Laic Democracy. One more thing,
Eli hears voices (like Joan of Arc) telling him what to do and the
Hughes brothers, who obviously believe in God, implicitly assert that
God exists by this subterfuge (since "He speaks to Eli"). Didn't the
Hughes brothers ever heard of medical science? Someone who hears voices
from God (or anyone else) is not a Saint it's someone who suffers from
schizophrenia (a chronic, severe, and disabling brain disorder). By the
way, religions do exist, it's a fact. And God does not exist, it's a
fact.
