
So I just went to a pre screening of this film in downtown Chicago and
Mr rainn Wilson himself was there to do a Q & A afterwards.

This movie was actually laugh out loud funny, it shows a lot of
character sub plots and builds a good and funny funny time telling
about each character. This is a go for the win movie and even gave me
tingles once and awhile. There is a lot of sub plots and it all works
together for the ending. It is about Rainn's character who was in a in
a rock band that was on their way to being huge and they kick him out
of the band. He starts a band with his nephew and his friends and show
them how to be true rockstar giving himself the chance and the dream
that was cut from him. I give it a 8 out of 10 and Rainn was a true
comic.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the biggest surprise of the year - bar none.

A great comedy - as in laughs, feel good, and just plain enjoyable.

The plot of the loser who makes good at rock'n'roll second time around
is very Jack Black and Rainn Wilson does a GREAT job - there is no
recourse to gross or sarcastic humor here - rather it plays on its rock
roots, chucks in some stupidity, and some kick-ass tunes, and lots of
excellent one liners and like I say totally surprised us as to how
genuinely funny and warm-hearted this is.

Great cast and a great script - sure it's not perfect, but after all
the pseudo-comedy and angst of 2008 it was refreshing just to sit back
and enjoy an entertaining movie.

we loved it and are normally really cynical about comedies - but this
rocks and would recommend to anyone as a real effort by all involved to
stop being smarter than the audience and just enjoy life - in two and a
half words? - it rocks!
<|_=00=_|>
1986 - Robert 'Fish' Fishman is the drummer of an up and coming rock
band called Vesuvius. However, on the night they are offered a massive
record deal, they are told there is a catch.... they have to sack the
drummer. Twenty years later, Fish is still angry about that, but when
offered the chance to play drums for his nephew's rock band at the
Prom, he see this as a chance get to live the rock lifestyle he always
wanted....

In many ways, The Rocker is a sequel to School Of Rock, in that you
have the older band member, with much younger band members. The
difference here though, is that they are all in their late teens. But
even these similarities don't hide the fact that for it's running time,
The Rocker is hugely enjoyable.

The cast, lead by Rainn Wilson are all good. Wilson as Fish gets to
over the top as he lives out his dream, and while some of his antics
are a bit childish at times, they are probably no worse that what
actual bands get up to at times. The fact that the rest of the band,
are normal teens makes Fish's antics even funnier.

As for the rest of the band members, yes you do have some clichéd
characters. There is the sensitive lead singer/song-writer, the Indie-
spirited girl, and the genius but shy keyboard player. Despite this
however, each person develops as the movie progresses, even Fish and
while some plot developments in the movie are very predictable, this
doesn't detract from the enjoyment.

Peter Cattaneo, who also directed The Full Monty, keeps things moving
along nicely. The script, while not a laugh out loud riot (for me
anyway), did keep a smile on my face all the way through. The music in
the movie is also well done. Not only in the choice of background
music, but also the songs that the band have written themselves.

The Rocker will never be remembered as an all-time comedy classic. But
for it's running time, it is very enjoyable, keeps you smiling and is
very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Though it borrows liberally from its genre brethren, The Rocker
showcases a keen sense of parody and heart with a powerful star
performance from the Jack Black-channeling Rainn Wilson. The "naked
drummer" doesn't stray too far from his Office persona, but the random
foul-mouthed spurts and goggle-eyed expressions certainly add a welcome
layer of comic ingenuity.

In 1986, Robert "Fish" Fishman (Rainn Wilson) drums for the popular
rock band Vesuvius and a lucrative career seems destined to embrace
him. However, a chance to play at a killer gig causes his bandmates to
sell him out for fast fame, and the drummer is literally kicked to the
streets. Twenty years later, Robert finds himself in a dead-end desk
job with no hope of escaping his mundane lifestyle. But good luck and
misfortune strike simultaneously leaving him jobless, homeless, and
shacked up at his sister's house  where the desperation of his
nephew's rock band lands him a spot as their drummer. What starts off
as a rocky, mismatched collaboration inadvertently becomes a rapid
success and Robert, along with Amelia (Emma Stone), Curtis (Teddy
Geiger), and Matt (Josh Gad) may finally get to live the dream they've
worked so hard to obtain.

For his debut leading film role, Rainn Wilson manages a diverse blend
of comedy and emanates the better qualities of funnyman Jack Black.
Rainn keeps his character under control so as not to get annoying but
remains erratic enough to evoke plenty of laughs. Most of the physical
comedy (and nudity, unfortunately) belongs to the Office veteran who
competently handles elaborate falls and crazed expressions with sincere
enthusiasm. Spouting off random quotable gibes, Wilson utilizes a
copious amount of offbeat one-liners and bizarre references that will
result in a hearty chuckle for those attuned to the
borderline-offensive brand of comedy.

While the primary band members fill their roles quite ably, a
surprising amount of laughs come from the hilarious supporting
characters and their moments of inspired lunacy. Most notable are Will
Arnett as a crazed 80's rocker and Jason Sudeikis as an arrogant record
label agent whose offensive pick-up lines never fail to amuse. Numerous
cameos also fill the screen, from stand-up comedian favorites to famous
musicians and anchored comedy character actors.

Though the whole cast turns in fine performances and Rainn Wilson
conjures up a delirious beast of a drummer, The Rocker's downfall may
be its heavily treaded subject matter. The cliché-filled plot resembles
far too many others and even the rather unique pieces feel drowned out
by the surplus of stereotypical events. What clearly rocks though is
the hysterical frontman and a host of great cameos and fantastic
supporting characters who bring an edgy absurdity to the whole affair.

- Joel Massie
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why, from the trailer I didn't really want to see The
Rocker, it looked like another silly teenage comedy, but I had the
opportunity to see it for free and decided to go ahead and give it a
fair chance. So I saw it yesterday and honestly, I thought it was a
pretty decent comedy, much better than I expected. But it fell flat and
became a predictable movie, I don't mind them every once in a while,
but this story could have had a better ending that surprised us all. I
love Rainn Wilson, ever since I saw him way back in House of 1000
Corpses, I just thought something strange stood out about this guy, he
eventually became bigger in the hit TV show The Office. He's now the
new male lead in a comedy, now he's decent, he did make me laugh like
crazy in a lot of his scenes, but I think he could have held his own a
little better, he's good, but he's not great as a leading comedic
actor.

He plays Fish, a drummer for a rock band that later goes platinum after
kicking him out. His life as an adult isn't so great, the band is doing
very well even 20 years later. Fish moves in with his sister, his
nephew asks him to play drums in his band when their drummer can't play
with them any more, but later Fish gets in trouble with his sister and
can't live with her any more. But his nephew sets up a way through the
internet and camera's, but when Fish doesn't know the camera is filming
him naked, a new internet era is born of the Naked Drummer. ADD, the
band he's playing with his nephew, becomes huge and fame takes a tole
on the kids as well as Fish's old age.

Now over all, I did like The Rocker, I think it's worth a matinée
price, it's a fun and silly comedy that gives you a few good laughs.
Mainly by Rainn Wilson, I couldn't help but laugh hysterically when he
finds out the band is kicking him out and he jumps on the van that
they're driving away in and is holding on by his drum sticks, sounds
stupid, but when you see the look on his face, it reminds you of The
Terminator 2: Judgement Day with the T-1000. Like I said, the ending
flops a bit though, I think they could have done something different,
but it's a good movie for laughs. Like I said if you want to see it in
the theater, I'd recommend the matinée, but otherwise it's just a
rental.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Some critics have called the latest "rock-n-roll world" lampoon flick
"The Rocker" an incomparable imitation of the critical darling of the
same theme "School of Rock". To drum it up in simplistic syntax, both
films ROCKED!!!!! "The Rocker" is not a carbon copy narrative of
"School of Rock"; it does have a musical story life of its own. "The
Rocker" stars the zany Rainn Wilson as Robert "Fish" Fishman, an
over-the-top boisterous drummer. Fish was about to dive into the school
of "Rock-Roll Fame & Fortune" when he was the drummer of an 80's heavy
metal band called Vesufius. Just before Vesufius made it to stardom,
Fish got the firing bait when the band's agent persuaded the Vesufius
band members to let the Fish go so he can be replaced with a recording
studio hotshot's son. Therefore, Fish was a musician out of the musical
waters for the next twenty years. That is until Fish's nephew Matt
asked Fish to be the drummer of his high school band entitled A.D.D.
(are you with me?, lol) because the original juvenile drummer boy was
being a bad boy and got expelled. Fish accepts and the rocker show
begins! Fish is one to rebel and follow the beat of his own ludicrous
drum and therefore A.D.D. chaos follows. Due to parental control issues
of the remaining A.D.D. band members, the band is forced to rehearse
each from their own home utilizing technical wizardry so they can view
each other. Fish chooses to rehearse in the nude and before you can say
"a little bored girl put it on You Tube and got zillions of hits" it
did that exact same thing. That undoubtedly is the scary "naked truth"
on the Fish following. Consequentially, fame and fortune follow for
A.D.D. as they land a recording contract and tour gigs all over the
country. Rainn Wilson's breakthrough performance as Fish was a comedic
vivacious delight that should rain him in some more starring comedic
roles. I also loved Jeff Garlin's role as the rocker-fantasy suburban
dad. Screenwriters Maya Forbes & Wallace Wolodarsky scripted a trendy
and modern narrative that symbolized the present youth obsessions &
dilemmas in combination with the 80's retro fixations of the forty-year
old generation. It was also quite damn hilarious for those young and
older. And Director Peter Cattaneo brought the script to cinematic life
by orchestrating a fine-tuned comedic machine. "The Rocker" might not
be nominated for any Oscars, Golden Globes, or even Grammys, but it's a
flick that simply (well you know) ROCKS in the comedic entertainment
"hysterically laugh out-loud" record category. ***** Excellent
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see The Rocker at a free screening and laughed
all the way through the movie. Very funny. I enjoyed the movie so much,
I saw it again at another screening, and it was just as funny the
second time. Rainn Wilson turns in a very good performance as Robert
"Fish" Fishman in his movie debut, however the part could have just as
easily been played by Jack Black. Wilson plays a rock drummer who is
kicked out of his band just before they make it big. Fast forward 20
years and he has a chance to live the rock-n-roll dream again with a
new band. If you liked "Almost Famous" or "School of Rock," then you
will like this movie more. While rated PG13, the movie contains no
F-bombs or sex scenes and is a movie parents can feel safe letting
their teen and pre-teen children go see. Parents will want to see this
movie as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Cattaneo MBE is probably best known for his hit film, "The Full
Monty." But here, he really utilizes top character actors and actresses
to create some memorable and humorous moments. Rainn Wilson maybe the
star but he's not alone. Jeff Garlin and Jane Lynch plays his
brother-in-law and sister. Christina Applegate plays the mom of one of
the musicians. The story isn't as sweet or vulgar as one would think of
today's comedies. The only questionable scene is Rainn's character is
naked for the rehearsal which lands him better known as the naked
drummer. The beginning is humorous with Fred Armesen and Will Arnett as
members of Vesuvius who ditched the drummer, Robert Fishman (Rain's
character) right on the verge of stardom. Fish retrieves to having a
somewhat normal life even has a normal girlfriend played for a few
minutes by Jane Krakowski. Jason Sudekis plays the band's manager.
Howard Hesseman plays their RV driver. I loved the casting of this film
because of all the familiar faces. Jane Lynch is one of my favorite
actresses because she can be both dramatic and comedic at once. This
film is rated PG-13 and I think it has to do with that one nude scene
but apart from that. They really have a message about working together
as a team. This film wouldn't have been made without the teamwork of
the cast and crew itself.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the movie with very low expectations...but was surprised.

I mean seriously, i thought this movie was going to be completely lame,
and i was just waiting for that one "stupid" moment that defined the
movie as a complete Flop,etc. But to my surprise, the movie just seemed
to keep getting better! (especially the beginning, with Rain Wilson
chasing after his ex-band mates in the van, WOW, i literally almost
fell out of my chair! I love unpredictable crazy moments like
that...and this movie was full of them.....)

Im a huge fan of Rain Wilson, and I KNOW he's an underdog actor who is
not being used to his full potential.

I just LOVE how his character is throughout the movie, he's just got
this whole Jack-Black meets Dwight(from the Office) thing going on! He
does a very good job of portraying a kind of washed up crazy rock star,
yet still very sharp and witty at times....he just seems to be able to
switch them on and off during the movie.

Overall this movie was A lot better than i thought, had a very good
rock flow to it, yet positive mood.

If you see this movie, go into it NOT expecting much!(just like the
trailers make you think) You'll be most likely surprised by all the
witty funny moments that just flare out of nowhere!

-----

THE GOOD - 

-Rain Wilson is VERY funny -He does a good job acting, "The Office"
fans will like it -Movie has a decent positive storyline IMO -The
costumes were PRICELESS -The faces Rain makes, and his quotes were
excellent..(not quite as weird/good as the Office, but definitely good
enough.) -Alot of unpredictable little quick moments and quotes!

THE BAD -

-I couldn't stand the borderline EMO sounding songs the band played
thru-out the movie sometimes!(although Rain was still his hardcore self
and never missed a friggin beat!) -The storyline just suddenly moves
REAL FAST...then all of a sudden slows back down to normal
speed....like how they suddenly get a record contract,etc....
<|_=00=_|>
Late August used to be a dumping ground for crappy movies, but now look
at how "The 40 Year Old Virgin" has changed all that. The "sleeper hit"
genre has become a key part of August, so much so that it's hard to
tell the difference anymore. Take "The Rocker" for example, the first
starring role for Rainn "Dwight" Wilson from "The Office", a seemingly
crappy movie that is already bouncing around the title of "The Summers
Sleeper hit." Now usually the "sleeper hit" genre has been attached to
Judd Apatow-related flicks like "Virgin" and last summers "Superbad",
and its really hard to picture Wilson in a lead role at all so this all
seems like a pretty hefty claim, but the question remains, is "The
Rocker" a crappy movie or is it a sleeper hit? 

Wilson plays Fish, the drummer for up and coming 80's metal band
Vesuvius. Just when the band is about to make it big, Fish is cut out
of it, leading to 20 years of working dull, soul-crushing jobs while
Vesuvius quickly becomes one of the biggest bands ever. Some salvation
comes his way in the form of his nephew's High School band, A.D.D. The
band has just lost its drummer to a High School prank and is in
desperate need of a replacement, leaving them with no one else to turn
to except Fish. The band, which includes nephew Matt (Josh Gad),
brooding lead singer Curtis (Teddy Geiger), and lone girl bassist
Amelia (Emily Stone) is at first reluctant to accept the nearly forty
year old drummer but in a plot twist that can only happen in movies, a
Youtube video they make leads to big time fame. Soon A.D.D is playing
the clubs and Fish is even romancing Curts' young mom (Christina
Applegate). Just like all bands, they are not without their conflicts.

Wilson comes from the Will Ferrell school of comedy, in that he goes
for cheap and sophomoric material. The movie relies on vomit, sweating,
Wilsons flabby body jiggling in the wind, and when all else fails, him
getting hit with something or a pratfall. Sure the shock value from
these things is worth a chuckle sometimes but he doesn't have the same
sort of buffoonish innocence that Ferrell does and a lot of what makes
this kind of material hilarious is the sort of personality doing the
delivery. Wilson doesn't seem to have it and so a lot of the jokes just
look like what they are, cheap and sophomoric. And the story doesn't
help either. It follows "School of Rock's" storyline pretty closely of
build a band, learn life lessons, encounter a problem, and finally rock
out in front of a huge crowd. Just "Rock" had an infectious enthusiasm
for music as well as a sweet side but this is more a generic retread of
most stories about the successes and perils of starting a band. No real
surprises here.

The cast does OK. I'm not saying Wilson is a bad comic actor but this
material doesn't seem suited for him at all. All the 80's headbands and
weird outfits can't disguise the fact that he's better playing a much
weirder character like Dwight from "The Office". Christina Applegate
seems to light up any film she's in and I wish she was given more
screen time here. Emma Stone, Josh Gadd, and Teddy Geiger each get do
their best in throwaway roles as musicians dealing with teenage angst.
Will Arnett and Fred Armisen are both pretty funny as Fish's old band
mates and Jeff Garlin and Jane Lynch are pretty much wasted in unfunny
roles. There is one person who makes out like a bandit in this movie
though and that is Jason Sudeikis as the A.D.D's asshole manager. Known
to me only for a recurring role on "30 Rock", he gets the best lines
and when he gets them he knocks them out of the park.

"The Rocker" itself just doesn't rock though. It just felt too cheap
and sophomoric, too conventional, too much of a waste of talented
actors, and above all, a completely wrong type of vehicle for Rainn
Wilson.
