
There have been some very positive reviews written here on the House of
Good and Evil. I'm really wondering were they watching the same movie
or merely part of the production crew. I watched the movie off the back
of these reviews and any score over 5 on IMDb is in my opinion worth a
try. All this I unfortunately found misleading. This psychological
thriller is low on thrills and even less on horror. It was a tall order
for the lead actress who is in just about every shot in the movie and I
can't say I warmed to the character, who was a difficult character
anyway must to the chagrin of my girlfriend who also watched eyes
rolling regularly. The rest of the cast were not bad, the old lady was
excellent, however there was not too much to go on. As the story panned
out to the end I was disappointed to find a twist similar to a British
movie I watched but days ago, and it was done better in that movie. I'm
afraid it just didn't all add up in the House of Good and Evil and I
still don't see the relevance of the name.
<|_=00=_|>
Another crappy "movie" thanks to The Curse of cheap digital cameras.

For some reason a couple thinks it is a good idea to move to a creepy
house in the middle of nowhere to save their marriage. (Good idea - if
you are as brain dead as the makers of this disaster of a movie)

Of course the husband has to leave his wife alone there (oh boy - who
comes up with garbage like this?) and really horrible things happen.

The most horrible thing of course is that this crappy "movie" goes on.

Everything in it is predictable and you have seen it thousand times
before - only better.

Since digital cameras have decreased production costs people with no
talent, imagination or any skills try to make movies - but fail
miserably.

Posting phony reviews on IMDb doesn't help either.

I hope all involved in this epic fail have a real job to fall back on
because that filmmaking gig does clearly not work out for them and
never will.

Don't waste your time with this garbage brought to you courtesy of The
Curse of cheap digital cameras.
<|_=00=_|>
From the movie poster / movie cover and the story summary, then I had
initially expected something entirely different from this movie
compared to what it turned out to be.

That being said, then this movie was a snoozefest. Wow, it just dragged
on and on forever with a horribly bad storyline. Nothing scary happened
throughout the entire course of the movie, and it is only the last 5
minutes of the movie or so that really are of any importance. I will
say that director David Mun did manage to pull off the ending quite
nicely. However, the rest of the movie, not so much.

The story is about a couple who lost a child during pregnancy while
being stuck in traffic in the city. Some time later, they move to a
remote countryside, far, far away from any town. The house is grand and
seems almost too good to be true. But the idyllic setting soon turns to
horror.

As well-intended as the storyline might have been, then it failed on
almost every account to accomplish much of anything. And the most scary
parts about the movie was the music score, or the fact how utterly dull
and slow-paced this movie was.

It should be said that the acting was actually good enough, but the
actors and actresses just had next to nothing script-wise to work with.

If you enjoy horrors and thrillers, then there are far better movies
out there to sit down and watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The firefighter Chris Conley (Christian Oliver) buys an isolated old
house in the middle of nowhere with neither telephone nor electricity
and moves with his estranged wife Maggie (Rachel Marie Lewis) expecting
to save their marriage and restart a new life. A few months ago, Maggie
was pregnant and lost her baby of eight months when Chris pushed her
during an argument. The real estate agent Rob Bradley (Rob Neukirch)
explains that the house is split in two and Maggie and Chris will need
to share the space with the tenants Mr. and Mrs. Anderson (Jordan
Rhodes and Marietta Marich) for at least one more month when the old
couple will leave the house. 

Chris finds a job in the nearest town and leaves the unstable Maggie
alone to unpack and decorate the house. Maggie overhears a telephone
and weird noises in the house and soon she meets Mrs. Anderson and
learns that Mr. Anderson is an abusive husband like she believes Chris
is.

"House of Good and Evil" is a low-budget movie showing the process of
madness developed in slow pace and a predictable conclusion. The
development of the relationship between Maggie and Chris in the
beginning is weak and the madness process of Maggie is obvious. The
story takes place in the present days and it is weird that an urban
couple moves to a decrepit house without the modern facilities Â–
electric power, telephone, Internet and gas - to begin a new life with
the husband needing to travel and leave his wife alone. Last but not
the least, I had great expectations with this movie since it has been
recommended by a friend of mine and probably it increased my deception.
My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a complete failure in every respect, if you waste your
time watching it you will wish you hadn't.

I am a big horror fan so I was disappointed to find out there is
absolutely no scares in this film whatsoever. The script is appalling,
the storyline is a joke, the soundtrack is hopeless, the 'special
effects' are joke shop quality and I honestly can't think of any
redeeming features this film has.

There are several parts where the music builds up and up as if
something scary is coming....but nothing happens! 

I made the mistake of watching this film because some of the other
reviewers seem to think it is worth watching and I feel conned-I
honestly do. This is not the sort of film that could divide opinion in
any way, it is just really, really bad and I cannot understand how
anyone would honestly say otherwise.

You have been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
Those that gave this film a rating of anything above 3 stars (hell
that's even too much) should be ashamed. We begin this film with a big
question mark as to what the hell is going on, and when we reach the
end that question mark is bigger and burning from the anger that you
feel from having wasted your time viewing it. It isn't scary. It holds
no psychological value. And the only thrill in it would come from the
discussion you'll have with whomever you watch it with over how bad it
really is. Want to have something to rant about? This is one of those
films. Otherwise, and for the benefit of your own sanity, I'd advise
those to steer clear!
<|_=00=_|>
I rated this movie 4/10 because it is well shot and decently cut. One
major issue with this film is that I never believed the couple's
relationship. Their affection flips-flops more than a fish out of water
and while I acknowledge that we spend most of the film seeing the world
through Maggie's psychotic eyes, it left this viewer jaded. If anything
I felt disdain for the female lead from beginning to end. Maybe it is
the director intention for me to be disassociated from the protagonist.

My biggest question (and that of many of the reviews already posted) is
why would anyone believe a couple, trying for a fresh start after a
life altering dramatic event, would ever agree to move to a decrepit
old house in the middle of nowhere with no phone and a generator for
electricity. Where the husband would leave his obviously mentally
disturbed wife alone for long periods of time... oh that's right, it's
all in her head because the husband dies the first night, chocking on
his own vomit while drunkenly sleeping... seem a little lazy story
wise.

Lastly, why give the real estate man a nasty, nose dripping cold? Is it
to help sell the sickness of the house? The moment the papers are
signed the cold seems to dissipate anyway, minus one last nose wipe as
he stares back at the house. The cold held my attention during that
whole scene, but it had no true purpose besides making the realtor
slightly more interesting. If you are going to develop characters, you
should probably concentrate on the main ones.

The rhythm of the last 10 minutes helps slightly salvage the movie but
as previously stated the reveal left to be desired. Props must be given
to Marietta Marich and Jordan Rhodes for elevating the scenes they were
in.

All in all a well produced film that needed a boost as far as pacing
and more work on the story itself.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about this film? Everything about it was terrible, from
the wretched overacting to the senseless plot. The main character,
Maggie, goes from scene to scene doing and saying things that have
absolutely nothing to do with anything that's happened in the movie.
The ending answers nothing, so if you are like me and need to finish
what you started just to see what happens...just don't.

What's the significance of the phone?? I've never seen a couple go from
hot to cold so fast and repeatedly. Why is the spare room locked? The
musical score seems to be off, why the dramatic crescendo for nothing?
If you're going to a certain place just to make a phone call, how do
you forget your phone? Baptism, really??

I could go on, but I'm exhausted from all the eye rolling.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't understand this storyline at all! What was the point in the
film? Or what was the moral of the story? It was also terrible acting
and wouldn't class it as a thriller or a horror. It's definitely a low
budget film with no real story to it. The girl that plays Maggie is
annoyingly awful. Also that they absolutely adore one another one
minute then hate each other the next is strange. It's not realistic at
all and didn't really make me want to jump up to find out what happens
next. I don't think I'll be recommending the film anytime soon. It's
just confusing. My boyfriend fell asleep 20 minute after starting as he
was bored and normally he never fails to stay awake during a film. It's
a waste of time money and energy. Sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
If I have to choose one genre I choose horror, and as a fan of horror I
obviously Watch a lot of horror Movies. Furthermore, as a fan of horror
you cannot really have high expectations in general because horror
Movies are what they are.

That said, you still expect some degree of quality when you read about
the plot and find it interesting, but boy was I disappointed with House
of Good and Evil.

Plot: married couple relocates to the countryside trying to salvage
their marriage after a tragic loss of their unborn Child.

Many horror Movies have low to medium budget and the creators succeed
in various degrees to put out a nice package. This Movie has a "nice
package". It is well made, has an intriguing title, decent actors.
But...in the end it is quite a bore. The ending is a total
disappointment and the writer, to me, probably ran out of gas or
suffers from limited imagination.

The title was promising, I expected a totally different turn-out, to be
frank, the turn-out was negative. I cannot really write what I expected
because then I would spoil the Movie for you.

Negative is also the pacing, in the beginning the "horror" comes on too
strong and a bit too early, and after those initial horrific elements
they die out and are left hanging and unexplored. Some might classify
this as being a red herring and thus being somewhat clever. However, I
say you cannot stray too far away from your initial horror elements
which should convey where the Movie is going. So...the initial build-up
does not equal the ending which I also Think is boring and shows signs
of bad imagination and taking the easy way out.

I still give it 4 out of 10 because it has decent actors, standard
production values. Qualitywise it is like Whisher, the Unborn, Prophecy
4 & 5, although not of the same sub-genres.
