
Let me start off by saying I am a huge fantasy fan. I can usually enjoy
any swords and sorcery type film and find something good about it. Now
let me say Wow this movie was bad. I mean I thought this kind of
clumsy, lowest common denominator filmmaking died in the 80's. It is
bad when I asked the organizer to give me a refund on a free
prescreening.

Where to begin? I don't expect much in this type of movie in terms of
plot or characterization. In action "porn" like this, the plot is
usually just barely coherent enough to move from one action sequence to
the next and the characters are as black and white as a chessboard.
This movie somehow delivers LESS than that.

It is staggering to me that with a mythology as rich and engaging to
draw from, they choose a tired rehashing of Gladiator as the main focus
of the film. No doubt holding the more interesting material back for
future sequels. The laughable love story is unengaging, poorly scripted
and given far too much screen time.

What really disappoints is the action sequences. Hercules is supposed
to be a demigod that achieves the impossible; the movie portrays none
of this. It wastes a good deal of time with a clumsy mix of fighting
scenes in which Hercules is repeatedly captured and/or defeated. WTF?
It is only towards the end that an attempt is made to show Hercules as
he should be seen, but I had tuned out long before then. 

Oddly enough, the blood and gore in this film is kept to a minimum,
probably to keep it at PG-13 in hopes of duping the largest possible
audience to drop money on it. It would have really benefited from a
Conan-esque level of violence to give the movie more weight and better
directed action sequences. The dramatic pause in the middle of the
action (made famous in the movie 300) is in every single action
sequence. 

I really don't know what I recommend from this film. Everything in the
movie has been done better in other films. I hope this film tanks but I
doubt it. It will make a profit and encourage more of the same I'm
sure.
<|_=00=_|>
The Legend of Hercules is one of two Hercules movies in 2014, the other
one is set for release in July starring Dwayne Johnson and Directed by
Brett Ratner. And I gotta say, after seeing this movie, I'm really
looking forward to the Brett Ratner version, and that's saying
something. 

Where do I begin? The acting is hilariously awful (Kellan Lutz and the
villains especially). The romance is laughable. The fight scenes are a
total rip off of 300 and Gladiator, with obnoxious slow-mo being used
every 10 seconds. And for a movie with a budget of $70 million, it
looks cheap.

The Legend of Hercules has some of the worst production values I've
ever seen in a film. The costumes look noticeably cheap, The props are
low rent, The green screen effects are amateurish. The 3D conversion is
even worse. And the CGI looks worse than an Asylum movie.

Final Verdict: Unless you're watching for a cheap laugh, you should
avoid this stinker like the plague.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie lost me even before I was dragged into the theater. The
trailers made it look like a movie made mostly for the sake of violence
and for showcasing the sweaty, hairless, shirtless bodies of the male
actors; there is plenty if the latter, but shockingly less than
expected of the former so if you're interested in bloody and graphic
violence skip it, there's nothing that graphic to speak of. The story
of Hercules's impossible tasks, is abandoned (and only makes a cameo in
a scene where he kills a lion) and instead it's been replaced with a
meathead's view of Ridley Scott's, Gladiator. The story and characters
are as shallow as kiddie pools, the editing never slows down the pace
which is tiring after the first twenty minutes, the same establishing
shots are used in the very first shot of every scene, the music also
doesn't know how to tone down, as that the climax of each scene is
accompanied with large, "rousing" crescendo, the writing is awful and
gives you no look into the mind of the characters (at least I hope they
had more going on in their heads than what was expressed), there is no
acting to speak of, and the visual effects look like they're from a
Sci-Fi Channel movie. To add to my disappointment, I also discovered
that IMDb doesn't have a "0 star" rating, what the hell?
<|_=00=_|>
Step aside, Kevin Sorbo, we have a new man for the role of Hercules and
his name is Kellan Lutz. If you have no idea who Mr Lutz is, check out
his appearances in the Twilight instalments.

Anyway back to The Legend of Hercules. As the title suggests, this is
an origin story that sets up the demigod character. Despised by his
father King Amphitryon (Scott Adkins) since the day he was born,
Hercules - the son of Zeus and Queen Alcmene (Roxanne McKee) - is sent
to war after failing to elope with his true love, Princess Hebe (Gaia
Weiss). King Amphitryon favors his elder son, Iphicles (Liam Garrigan);
unfortunately he is not warrior material let alone lead a kingdom and
winning the heart of Princess Hebe. As fate would have it, Hercules
survived the war and returns to reclaim his love and kingdom from the
wrath of King Amphitryon. 

The poster reads From the director of Cliffhanger and Die Hard 2 - it's
unfortunate they forgot to add in the fact that both were movies from
more than twenty years ago, and Renny Harlin's directing career has
long been sunk by a certain Cutthroat Island. Let's face it; The Legend
of Hercules isn't going to resurrect Harlin's status in Hollywood
anytime soon. 

While similarly themed movies such as 300, Immortals and Clash of the
Titans are known more for their visual aesthetics than storytelling,
The Legend of Hercules failed miserably on both accounts. Filmed
entirely in Eastern Europe because of cheaper costs and taxes, Harlin's
movie mimics the feel and look of its predecessors while pretending to
strip down to the grittiness of that era. However every single set
piece looks like a cheap knock-off, right down to the CG extensions -
case in point, one seriously fake looking puppeteer lion looks even
worse than that in cable series Spartacus and Rome.

Written by at least four credited writers (one of them from the
terrible Conan the Barbarian remake and Harlin himself), it is such a
shame that the supposedly mythology-inspired story instead resembles
Ridley Scott's Gladiator more than anything - if you recall, Maximus,
was also betrayed and sold to slavery but made a comeback for revenge.
We didn't realize that the legendary Greek hero Hercules actually
ventures on the same path until now.

Unimaginative plotting aside, the movie suffers from incredible clunky,
modernized dialogue peppered with a variety of British and American
accents and awful delivery from the actors. With the exception of McKee
and Adkins (surprisingly turning in a solid performance), most of the
cast members - especially Lutz - needs to sign up for advanced acting
classes. Minus off all the disemboweling, limb and head severing and
bloodshed you normally would have expect from such a theme (an obvious
attempt to lure in younger audiences), The Legend of Hercules quickly
dissolves into a predictable yawn fest.

It's a tad disappointing that a movie about a demigod with incredible
strength fares without emotion and plays like generally a mere
paint-by- number adventure. Comparing to the 1997 animated feature by
Disney, this one is hardly worth the time.
<|_=00=_|>
It is absolutely shocking that this movie came out in today's market.
The dialog was horrible: clich√© and predictable. The entire film was,
in fact, predictable. We saw the previews, we went to the film, and
about ten minutes in we knew it was bad. We gave it a chance, hoping it
would get better, that it would redeem itself in some way. It did not.
It got worse. If you are just looking for an entertaining film, this is
a major disappointment, to say the least. Obvious special effects, slow
motion for every other move in every fight scene, and terrible, I mean
tragic, dialog. If you are a fan of Greek mythology, it's downright
offensive. Don't waste your time or your money.
<|_=00=_|>
The Legend of Hercules spoiler free review

This movie is HORRIBLE. Where do i start. The acting is just laughable
and bad. Kellan Lutz is bad as Hercules (Hopefully Dwayne Johnson will
do better in the next Hercules movie). Every line is said horribly. Did
i mention the dialogue is BAD.

The script is horrible. It has nothing to do with the original
mythology. It tries to be like 300 and Gladiator but fails horribly.
The romance is so cheesy with the worst romance dialogue i have ever
heard.

Are the action scenes good?....No....Far from good. It always uses slow
motion just like 300 (which was used better) but it was obnoxious and
gets old and annoying. 

The visual effects and green screen is horrible and this movie has a
budget of over 70 million dollars!!! What?! Movies with lower budgets
look more convincing then this. 

Overall rating 1/10 One of the worst movies i have seen all year and
we're still in January!!! Hopefully the Brett Ratner version is better
and obviously it will be. You can't get lower than this.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh boy. What a ride, so much greatness. Ed Wood would be proud.

The Legend of Hercules. This caustic comedy doesn't start at the minute
0 of the movie. The movie in itself is just the tip of the iceberg, to
fully understand all the implications and subtlety of this story you
have to be familiar with the background. This is NOT an easy movie.
Just like Citizen Kane it's a movie you need to DESERVE, as it will not
give itself to you too easily.

It all starts in a rocking chair next to a swimming-pool. Summer is
shining, life is good, whiskey's on the rocks. Some old guy with sun
glasses is on the phone, talking while playing Candy Crush.

"I'm telling you, people want a gladiator movie. Just like Gladiator,
something like that! (Sweet.) Just freaking do something like the
series Spartacus, or Rome, I don't (Tasty!) give a damn. I want the
script in one week. (Sugar crush.)"

One week later 10 screenwriters come up with 10 different scripts. For
a movie 10 times better, the guy in the rocking chair decides the movie
will be a blend of the 10 scripts.

He puts 70 million dollars on the table.

The movie is now shot and it's kind of very bad, just how it was
supposed to be. It doesn't matter anyway because people just have to go
to the cinema once, it's alright if they don't like it and don't come a
second time! HA!

Worried, some guy calls the money-guy in the rocking chair.

"-Hey, I've been thinking, we should use a famous name from the
mythology in the title! It will bring more people!

-Asklepios?

-Eeeehhh, well to be honest I was thinking Hercules...

-Oh, alright then."

And so The Legend Of Hercules was born. This movie is not a story, it's
money invested and hope for a return. If you make a bad movie but you
hit some landmarks: Hercules, mythology, gladiators, somewhat-famous
actors, then you'll probably make money.

You have to understand the true, deep nature of this movie. The Legend
of Hercules is a cry for help, a poetry, a game-changer. The actual
purpose of this movie is to impact the global industry, to make
producers realize that, no, bad movies actually DON'T WORK, and they
are not easy money.

A simple, honest, gladiator movie with no fake big name like Hercules,
with no fake romance, with just a guy fighting and living in the roman
empire would have made more money. It is time to leave the path of
using the same recipe over and over again. This is the one and only
message this movie conveys, successfully.

I hope you'll appreciate The Legend of Hercules as fully as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
The Legend of Hercules is a film directed by Renny Harlin, and stars
Kellan Lutz, Scott Adkins and Gaia Weiss, and revolves around the
character of Hercules, son of Zeus, who was born solely to end the life
of the King of his people, and unite the lands in peace, or something
like that. I didn't pay too much attention, to be honest! 

This movie is horrible. It's clich√©d to pieces, poorly directed,
horribly acted and disastrously written. All the dialogue feels so god
damned forced, and makes it incredibly difficult to latch onto any of
the characters. Whenever they speak... It's like someone saw Spartacus
or Game of Thrones and went "Well, now I certainly know how people of
that era spoke!" and wrote a screenplay, full of fancy words and
shallow speeches. You don't feel like a single word here is sincere;
from Hercules speaking to his clich√©d, forbidden love Hebe (Yeah,
that's right; his forbidden love's name is Princess Hebe), and from the
King to his son... It's all atrocious! The screenwriter also saw the
speeches in Braveheart and LOTR: Return of The King and went "Well, we
obviously need a battle speech!" and wrote a bunch of big speeches that
were emotionless, and couldn't have been more forced. I'll move on,
cause I could go on about the dialogue for days! 

The acting... It's too much! The main actor, Kellan Lutz, came from
Twilight... So you knew from the beginning you were in for a bad ride.
He's completely emotionless, stale and you not for one second care for
his character. His forbidden love, played by Gaia Weiss, is equally
horrible! The only reason she was cast, obviously, is because she's
pretty damned hot! Scott Adkins, though, leads the way in crappy
performances! His entire performance revolves around him yelling every
single word. He could be speaking to his wife in private, and still
find the need to yell every word to her. It was dreadful to watch! The
only decent performance was delivered by Liam McIntyre, who plays
Hercules's friend and comrade. He could actually deliver the lines with
a bit of power, emotion! Despite his decent performance though, the
rest of the cast deserves Razzie's. I'm calling it people; every single
actor and actress here will get nominated at the Golden Raspberries
this year! That is not good!

The action is horrendous. Remember 300; that badass film about
Spartan's kicking a bunch of Persian's asses? And remember how it used
to go into awesome slow motion every once in a while during the
fighting, when a sword was plunged deep into a body, or someone hit
another over the head? Well, they do it here! And is it good? Hell no!
They overuse it to pieces, and by the end of the film, you can't help
but cringe every time it occurs. The action in general feels weak.
There is never a moment in this film in which you worry for Hercules.
You always know that he's going to beat his opponents, and that makes
for fights that have you bored and uninterested! When the great hero
Hercules lacks peril in his fight scenes, you have a problem. 

The CGI here is again, horrible! All the green screen looks like it
could have fit right into a 1980's action flick. For a film coming out
in 2014, that's not a good sign! All the CGI aspects of this film look
incredibly fake, and mixed in with the terrible live sets, it makes for
a difficult experience. I'm so thankful I did not see this in 3D, I
certainly wouldn't have been able to stand it all. And the extra
admission price... completely criminal!

Overall, The Legend of Hercules is a pile of crap. Just please don't
watch this! This film should be nominated for Razzie's, and make a
minimal amount at the box office. It's one of the worst movies of all
time, and certainly going to be on my top 10 worst of 2014. I need to
watch 300 now, to feel good about this genre again. 

1.1/10

Find more film reviews at www.entjunkie.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
This is probably why we do not see many quality swords and sandals
flicks, most Hollywood producers are worried about the "badassness" of
the film rather than a quality experience. Unfortunately, the drawing
rooms are most likely filled with ideas about actors in costume jumping
in slow motion to attack the bad guy and other senseless special
effects a la Transformers.

I guess what I am saying is that newer technology and more special
effects are not always a good thing, specially with a swords and
sandals movie, Hollywood will continue losing money on movie tickets
because they are missing the point, sometimes less is more.

This movie really was awful, I hope The Rock's Thracian Wars will give
us a more realistic feel of what a Hercules movie should be.
<|_=00=_|>
The only thing worse than this movie is having to watch it in 3D and
have the awful come out of the screen at you. Horrible. The guy who
plays Hercules should be arrested and tried in court for crimes against
humanity. The actress who plays Hebe gave so many awkward moments in
this film she should be sent to MTV to coach the 16 and pregnant girls
how to lose their man. The fight scenes in this film start off alright;
but gradually turn into WWE backyard wrestling. The scene near the
beginning where Hercules fights the horrible CGI Lion was so horribly
done that I almost walked out on the film then. Sadly, I decided to
wait until much later to do that. I would add more to this review; but
I was smart enough to actually leave and try to save the rest of the
night with ice cream and though I should go to a crisis center. Sadly,
they do not have a "center for the people who just saw the worst film
ever". Do not see this movie; you have been warned.
