
I am not a great fan of romantic comedies because, honestly, they all
seem the same. This one proved me wrong! I actually laughed
(unexpected) and even cried (really unexpected) during this movie.
There is great chemistry between all the cast members . The premise
that the story is based on is presented as very believable. I found
myself immersed in the possibility of this happening in real life, not
just reel life! I think the director brought out the best in the
actors. Katie Heigl has more depth as an actor than I gave her credit
for. Josh Duhmel proves to be more than just a pretty face. I really
loved this movie and was so glad I went to see it!
<|_=00=_|>
My wife's choice of film made me miss "The Town" and "The Social
Network" which I preferred, but I'm not regretting this night. As a
mere film lover, I have no idea how the two leads managed to make this
script believable, but they did. Katherine Heigl is a known, reliable
entity who's graced many a movie, but the real discovery for me was
Josh Duhamel who conveyed all of his feelings to me, another guy,
extremely well in situations I've never really encountered, perhaps
better and more agreeably than any other male lead I can think of. Now
I'm not sure why. The guy's quite a bit more handsome than me and
everything's done with a light touch, but somehow, he's effective and
simultaneously non- threatening, if that's the word.

Anyway, this film is far from perfect, but what it's attempting to
explore is a bit mind boggling. How would two people who initially
dislike each other find enough common ground to come together in the
best interests of a child? You won't find a 'how to' here, but all the
small moves and incidents rang true to me, and the result in the end,
seems quite plausible to me, at least. Things happen when two people
get thrown together like this and I doubt you'll have it illustrated
more enjoyably than this any time soon.
<|_=00=_|>
"Life as We Know It" is predictable. Not breaking news. 3 years ago
Josh Duhamel as Messer and Katherine Heigl as Holly have a set up date
by their best friends Peter and Alison (Hayes MacArthur and Christina
Hendricks) that terminates in Holly's Smart Car. Holly despises Messer
way too much. Life happens and tragedy unfolds. Peter and Alison die in
a car accident. In their will, unbeknownst to Messer and Holly, the
Novaks' name them as legal guardians to their 1 year-old daughter
Sophie. Reluctantly, Messer and Holly agree to move into the Novaks'
house, and raise Sophie until they can figure this out. Did Alison and
Peter know something that Holly and Messer were clueless to? Do they
fall in love, and transform into loving parents? 

Come on, we're smart and have seen our share of romantic comedies.
Narrative surprise is not the strong suit of Ian Deitchman and Kristin
Rusk Robinson's screenplay. In spite of all this, "Life as We Know It"
is touching romantic comedy. Katherine Heigl and Josh Duhamel are
awesome, and have a natural chemistry. Deitchman and Robinson's story
strongly evolves. Director Greg Berlanti expertly orchestrates the
right tone. Although, "Life" is romantic comedy, the set up is heart
wrenching tragedy. The future of orphaned Sophie (played by Brooke and
Kiley Liddell) hangs in the balance of whether Heigl and Duhamel can
get over themselves. Heigl has a charming vulnerability and
authenticity as Holly, who has dreams of expanding her bakeshop and
dearly misses Alison, her personal rock. Duhamel is a nice surprise. He
casually inhabits Messer, the Player who really has a big heart, by the
numbers. However, Duhamel never overplays, embodying humanity and
humor. With Duhamel we cheer for Messer's transformation. At the story
arc, he confesses to Heigl, "Together Somehow we're a family." 

At times we're smarter than the screenplay. From the beginning we see
through Messer's jerk facade, and distinguish the good man that he is
and great guy he can be. Holly is too obsessed being annoyed, to see
the obvious. Fortunately, Heigl and Duhamel are smarter than the
scripthinting at the underlying love Holly and Messer have always had.
Chemistry conquers a lot. Validation comes when Baby Whisperer Amy
(great Britt Flatmo) says, "You guys make an awesome couple." Listen to
the 12 year-old. Heigl and Duhamel are an amazing looking couple that
has a very comfortable feel. 

What Berlanti does well is populate "Life" with quirky supporting
characters and nominal narrative twists. Melissa McCarthy is good as
the seen-it-all Mom DeeDee. Andrew Daly and Bill Brochtrup are funny as
the gay parents Scott and Gary, who faun over the strikingly handsome
Duhamel. Sarah Burns is awesome as the social worker Janine Groff, who
warns Holly and Messer about complicating their relationship. Burns is
hysterically touching as she becomes their biggest advocate. Brooke and
Kiley Liddell are priceless as Sophie. Though hers is not really a
performance, she is just being. There are the formulae high jinx with
baby poop and babysitting duty. Conflict is manufactured. Messer is
offered the sports TV director slot for the Phoenix Suns, which would
displace him from home in Atlanta. Holly starts a relationship with
solid Sam (down home charming Josh Lucas), Sophie's pediatrician. Life
is diverging. 

Here in "Life as We Know It" there is an upside to predictability. We
cheer for Holly, Messer, and Sophie, because we see before they do:
They are a family. Heigl and Duhamel are awesome, apart or together.
They overcome a lot of the formulae. Being predictable is overrated,
when you have great heart like "Life as We Know It".
<|_=00=_|>
"Life as We Know It" (2010). Having seen the film myself I was moved
with empathy when the character of Holly Berenson discovers the death
of her two best friends. This in turn causes an emotional breakdown in
the local police precinct where she is joined by Eric (the other friend
of the couple). I also thought the comedic timing was great as well
with the chemistry within the cast. This was truly a film which held my
attention. I laughed, I cried, I wanted more. The situation at hand was
of two opposite people that have nothing in common; are abruptly placed
as the legal guardians of their friends child, after the couple perish
in an automobile accident. Soon after Holly and Eric Messer move into
their friends home to make an attempt at raising the child. Throughout
the film they show the difficult burden of raising a child before one
truly knows they are prepared for such a step. The film concludes with
a bond having formed over the three main characters Holly, Eric, and
the little baby left in their care. This is a film that many should
take the time to see and enjoy. The story shows how against the odds of
tragedy two people can grow up and discover possibilities within
themselves. The possibility to care for and further another human life.
<|_=00=_|>
In Atlanta, Holly Berenson (Katherine Heigl) is the best friend of
Allison (Christina Hendricks) and Peter Novak (Hayes MacArthur). She is
single and has just called off a three-year relationship and
professionally she runs a bakery, is very well-organized and plans to
upgrade her business to a restaurant. When her friends schedule a blind
date with Peter's best friend, TV sports director Eric Messer (Josh
Duhamel), their encounter is a flop and Holly hates the reckless
womanizer Messer. However, when Allison and Peter have a fatal car
accident, the godparents Holly and Messer learn by the lawyer that they
have been named the legal guardians of Peter and Allison's baby,
Sophie, and have inherited their large house to raise the girl. Having
in common only their love for Sophie, Holly and Messer have their lives
turned upside-down and need to support each other to keep the girl with
them and honor the wishes of their best friends.

"Life as We Know It" is a pleasant romance, despite the tragedy and
predictability of the story. I usually like the films of the gorgeous
Katherine Heigl and the practically unknown Josh Duhamel is hilarious
in the role of a wolf. Their chemistry is awesome, but the babies
Alexis, Brynn and Brooke Clagett steal the movie. I believe that
everybody that is experienced father or mother will recall their first
experiences as parents and will love the troubles of Holly and Messer.
My vote is seven. 

Title (Brazil): "Juntos Pelo Acaso" ("Together by Chance")
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so perhaps it's a bit formulaic. But getting through the process
was unexpected. A very sweet story line, and some clunky transitions;
however, the ultimate feel was very sweet and pulled at the heart
strings. Life isn't simple, doesn't always go as expected, and requires
a bit of effort. This film seemed to capture a wide variety of
experiences and faced them with poignancy and humor.

I truly was expecting it to be all fluff, or very silly, and I didn't
expect the film to tell the story as well as it did. Insight into
different families, good times, bad times, and the mundane. No huge
laugh out loud moments, but definitely some chuckles. I'm glad I gave
it a shot. Give it a try sometime, and you just might be surprised,
too.
<|_=00=_|>
After their first date Holly Berenson(Heigl) and Eric Messer (Duhamel)
don't like each other. They have friends in common and those friends
die in a car accident and leave their daughter, Sophie, to both Holly
and Eric (call him Messer) who are the God-Parents. Now, the games
begin

This will start off sad, then it will be okay and funny in many places,
and then later on a little sad again; then surprise, surprise, okay
again. You were looking for a happy ending, weren't you? I thought so,
but it takes some doing to get there. It's all in the telling. And,
this is told quite well. And, to have Josh Duhmel and Katherine Heigl
portray the God-Parents, well it just doesn't get any better. I think
they are terrific actors and their chemistry was excellent.

I said the sad thing because it is sad and tragic when friends die and
then leave a 1-yr old baby with others. And, like it or not, I am sure
things like this have happened. Maybe the title should have been LIFE
AS IT CAN HAPPEN. 

So Holly and Eric (wants to be called Messer) are thrown into instant
parenthood and go through those trials and tribulations just as if they
were married and had their own kid. Well, almost. Many parents will see
themselves in here.

As far as the comedy goes, it was very good and I got a lot of laughs
throughout starting with the first diaper change. Yes, that's always a
good starter duty for new parents. The audience patiently waits for
that one. 

Violence: No. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: Not really, but Heigl does
mouth an F-bomb. You don't hear it and she turns away quickly so you
don't see all.
<|_=00=_|>
Holly (Katherine Heigl) and Eric, known by his last name, Messer (Josh
Duhamel) were once set up by close married friends, wife Alison
(Christina Hendricks) and hubby Peter (Hayes MacArthur). The date
lasted all of five minutes, as each took an instant dislike to one
another and rang the gong. However, they have had to see each other
over the last few years, at parties and gatherings thrown by the wedded
couple. More so now that the A and P have a little girl named Sophie. A
self-described "control freak", Holly owns a gourmet food shop called
Fraiche, in the Atlanta area, where she has grown interested in a
frequent customer, Dr. Sam (Josh Lucas). For his part, Messer works in
sports television, operating cameras for the Hawks basketball franchise
and he has a new girlfriend every five minutes. Into this setting comes
a shock. Alison and Peter tragically die in an automobile crash and,
unbelievably, leave custody of Sophie to their unmarried pals, Holly
and Messer. After the tears and agony, the we-loathe-each-other couple
realize that they must move into their friends' large home and learn
how to take care of their new daughter, with civility. But, as both are
practicing "on the job parenting", they still have quite a few
arguments and upsets. Juggling jobs and babies is a tough job, they
quickly concede. Could it also be that, despite Dr. Sam's growing
presence and Messer's frequent galpals, that Holly and Messer will
actually grow to like each other? Maybe! This is a lovely new entry
into the world of romantic comedies, for all of the genre's dedicated
fans. Despite the tried and true theme of mismatched, argumentative
folks falling in love, the movie has a few new twists, as a result of
the adorable baby. Heigl and Duhamel are perfectly wonderful as the
main couple, although both are such pros in this type of film that they
should probably try to "branch out" in their next projects or be stuck
in this kind of thing forever. The supporting cast is also very fine,
as are the settings, costumes, and camera work. Add on the zesty
direction and polished, humorous storyline and a winning flick emerges.
Therefore, Hollywood, please send us more movies like this one, and
fans, take time out from life's more mundane practices and make plans
for a view.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best films I have seen this year. Very predictable
but I didn't care. Everybody knows the two main characters will
eventually fall in love...that is obvious...it's the ride getting there
that is funny, delightful, and very touching at moments.

The film has a very classic movie feel about it. If one were to remove
the drug scene and the sex scene, I could easily see Cary Grant and
Katherine Hepburn in the two main roles.

Josh Duhamel and Katherine Heigl both give outstanding comedic
performances while being quite believable when things occasionally get
serious.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about two people who got set up by their friends, but the
date dis not go well at all. Their friend died unexpectedly, and they
have to care for their friend's child.

"Life as We Know It" is fun to watch. It's a formulaic romantic comedy
in the sense that you know what will happen in the end, but still it is
not so formulaic as it has there are lots of elements which are not
usually in romantic comedies. It is not usual for romantic comedies to
incorporate the frustration of child care, for example. The two leads
are charming, believable and goes well together. The social worker is
very funny too, but if she really acted like that in real life, she
would not have been so professional!
