
I have to admit that I have a soft spot for Guy Ritchie's mockney
gangster films. I don't know what it is. I know that they're not very
profound and have nothing to say, I know that they're a pure fantasy
vision of British crime and I know that if you've seen Lock Stock,
you've pretty much seen them all. And yet, as Ritchie returns for a
third iteration of the only formula with which he's tasted success , I
still find myself walking out of the cinema massively entertained.

RocknRolla does absolutely nothing new. A quick list of things it
shares with Lock Stock and Snatch would read thus: fast paced, witty
dialogue; complex, interwoven plot threads; central McGuffin driving
the mayhem (#1 antique shotguns, #2 huge diamond, #3 a lucky painting);
smart, rapid editing; a mountain of Cockney crime stereotypes. Even
things such as hard-as-nails Russian henchmen return. It completes the
upward curve of scale in Ritchie's crime films: from a rigged card game
to a rigged boxing circuit to rigged property development. The crime
lords get larger in stature, the sums of money owed have more zeros on
the end and the capers required to resolve the situation more grand,
but it's still the same concept.

You'd think this was a list of criticisms, and if you found Snatch
wearingly familiar you shouldn't need it spelling out that this film
won't impress you. Looking for originality? Look elsewhere. RocknRolla
may be pushing the formula a little bit, but if you accept that it's
still enormous fun. Ritchie's directing is as proficient as ever, it
moves at a merry old pace and the plot just about stays on the rails.
The characters are endearing and there's plenty of laughs to be had.
Other than its dearth of invention, the only real flaw with the film
lies in the opening fifteen minutes, where Ritchie sets up the plot
strands which will then unravel. Whereas previous films did this in a
smooth, unforced way, here Ritchie lathers it with a liberal helping of
voice-over narration so there's absolutely no confusion possible as to
who is who and what they're after, which on many occasions extends to
pointing out the bleeding obvious. Show don't tell- it's the first rule
in the book Ritchie! It may be getting to the point where RocknRolla
must go down as a guilty pleasure, but guilty pleasures are often the
most fulfilling kind. And so it is here.
<|_=00=_|>
In a business as enormously subjective as the film industry, it would
seem near impossible to attempt to remain individual and innovative,
continually raising the bar, without the occasional stumble.
Writer/director Guy Ritchie, who at first garnered countless approval
for his vicious, hyper-stylized tales of dirty deeds in the British
underground, had found the critical tides turning in recent years after
the succession of universally panned Swept Away to widely baffling
Revolver, begging the question as to whether Ritchie's cinematic genius
had been limited to his initial films. However, fans of the
unconventional filmmaker will be enthralled to hear that his latest
project, RocknRolla proves a confident return to form, a snappy,
stylish piece of work bristling with energy and acerbic wit - in short,
classic Ritchie.

Returning to his defining genre, Ritchie crafts yet another convoluted
myriad of intersecting story lines focusing on greed, deception,
double-crossing and plenty of stupidity in the seedy underbelly of
England. With viewers trusted to be familiar with his unique style,
Ritchie uses his familiar story template to worm in social commentary
amidst his trademark edge and humour, satirising the increasingly
developed state of London and the enormous demand for real estate and
location. But this is not the ordinary, romanticized London, as
Ritchie's cinematic eye appears determined to capture every last dank,
filthy gutter, every ounce of crime and corruption in a fashion akin to
the least flattering cinematic depictions of New York. And yet, amidst
the filth and edgy comedy, the occasional moment of raw humanity,
flawed as it may be emerges from the fray of unanimously unsympathetic
characters, whether it be the vulnerability of rocker Johnny Quid
shuddering and rocking back and forth on a drug trip or the witty
interplay between 'The Wild Bunch', a trio of hapless thieves. For a
film so cynically detached, RocknRolla sure can hit the emotional
gut-punch buttons for brief but unsettlingly crucial moments.

However, in the midst of his caustic reflection on his home town,
Ritchie has mercifully left his sense of uproarious fun intact. After a
relatively slow start, serving mostly to set up the convoluted array of
characters and plot points (the central Maguffin this time being a
'lucky' Russian painting which goes missing) the film takes off at the
frenzied pace those familiar with Ritchie's work would expect. Plunging
into a fray of hilarious coincidences and situational comedy (watch for
a priceless slow dance scene and one of the most hysterical sex scenes
in many a year), double crosses, intimidation rants, philosophical
monologues and the time worn Ritchie tradition of indestructible
Russian hit men, it becomes clear that no matter how many similarities
it may bear to past work, the delight of seeing a dynamic talent back
on the top of his game cannot be understated. While the hyper-kinetic
editing and camera-work and bold music cues of Snatch have been toned
down and the casual violence is more removed, the cinematic flavour is
unmistakable - Ritchie is back, and just as bombastically entertaining
as ever. 

As usual, Ritchie's cast rise to the occasion of matching the
brilliance of their script and director. Gerard Butler brings an
endearing charm to tough talking goofball thug One-Two, inevitably
raising laughs whenever on screen and anchoring the film as one of the
few likable characters. Tom Wilkinson takes on the role of resident
British mobster with considerable aplomb, spitting out his lines with a
vindictive joy and proving easily more than adequate on the
intimidation front. Thandie Newton evokes an alluring mysterious air as
a devious accountant playing each side of the conflict against each
other, exuding a subtle quirkiness in her execution of the traditional
femme fatale figure. Mark Strong delivers harried menace and perfect
comic deadpan as Wilkinson's right hand man, crafting another memorable
Ritchie reference with the "Archie slap", and Idris Elba and Tom Hardy
are fittingly hilarious as One-Two's bumbling fellow hard men Mumbles
and Handsome Bob. Finally, Toby Kebbell eerily essays the most
commanding character on screen as allegedly deceased rocker Johnny
Quid. A narcissistic, painfully vulnerable, haphazardly philosophical
and cheekily insulting pile of flaws and potent observations, Quid is
as classic as any of Ritchie's more beloved characters, and Kebbell's
off-kilter performance rivets the viewer's attention - whether
hilarious or tragic, he is always invariably impossible to ignore and
far too interesting to discount. 

While the occasional cry of rehashing story elements from past
successes may be raised, Ritchie's return to form is too supremely
entertaining to dwindle under such complaints, as the formula proves to
have just enough shelf life along with countless inspired tweaks to
remain miles ahead of any stylistic impersonators. For any finding the
cinema's fare too dull or uninspired, fear not - a genuine talent has
re-emerged, and RocknRolla proves just the antidote to the hackneyed
mainstream offshoots which slunk up in his absence. The prospect of the
announced two sequels is mouth watering indeed - if anything should
prove indicative of the film's quality, it is that. 

-8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
While seeing the dark knight a trailer for a new guy ritchie film came
up.

I wasn't particularly swayed too much by this trailer but considering
the summer period was almost over and we film lovers now have to
survive the cheap horror winter season, Rocknrolla seemed like a nice
surprise.

So i saw it last night.

And, to the tell the truth, i absolutely loved it! Obviously apart from
guy ritchies excellent direction it had some absolutely fantastic
dialouge with some pin sharp conversations and trademark British
humour.

The story revolves around several characters, each do something that
affects another character within the story. Characters are The Wild
Bunch with Gerard Butler, Thandie Newton the accountant, Tom Wilkinson
the gangster.

I could say more but there are a lot.

The film to start i found was rather complicated but as time went on i
got used to all the characters and they're relationships etc etc.

It's filled with some great top notch sequences but my favourite and
the crowds favourite was "The Invincible Russians" Overall this is a
great film and breaks the dead lock of cheesy cheap films we get around
this time of year.

go see it now!
<|_=00=_|>
There is a new gang of Russian mobsters in London planning to create a
real estate goldmine lead by Uri(Karl Roden). But they need the help of
Lenny(Wilkinson) to get permission so he lends him his "lucky painting"
this in turn disappears bringing Stella the accountant(Newton) and the
Wild Bunch(Elba,Butler,Hardy) into the Fray. Amongst all this Is
Rockstar Johnny Quid and his Agents(Kebbell,Piven,Bridges). Get ready
for another multi stranded cockney Ritchie film.

First of all, so you know, I have been long anticipating this film (I
mean who wouldn't just for the cast alone?) so didn't go in with low
expectations, they were high and this film still managed to surpass
them. Lets start with the aforementioned cast... they are all
absolutely fantastic but they are aided by beautifully written
characters. Gerard Butler(One Two) and Idris Elba(Mumbles) have more
chemistry on screen than most Hollywood romcom leading couples. They
snap and crack off each other like they've done it for years. In fact
the entire "Wild Bunch" as they are known in the film provide some of
its best moments, from a visceral heist scene with some unstoppable
Russian heavies(which oozes style) to a hilarious running sub-plot
about Bob's(Tom hardy) sexual orientation. Matt King also provides a
great turn as the Wild Bunch's in house drug dealer Cookie, he also
turns in one of the movies best scenes, an eerie narration on heroine
addiction. Wilkinson is firing on all cylinders in a role that could
have just been his Carmine Falcone with a cockney accent but manages to
be much more as well as pretty scary. But it is Mark Strong who comes
up trumps in this storyline, his portrayal of Archie the right hand man
is probably the most rounded character in the film, full of humour and
wit and with an undeniable likability he steals much of the scenes he
appears in. And now on to Toby Kebbell as junkie Rockstar Johnny Quid,
this is a role that if the academy were a little less narrow-minded
they would consider supporting actor nod. He is scum, but his character
is such that he is witty and somewhat of a poet/philosopher,
fantastically written and Kebbell plays it brilliant. You are never
sure what hes going to do next, I guarantee he will take you by
surprise.

And now onto the man of the moment, Ritchie. There was a lot of
scepticism about this film considering how badly his past two films did
critically and commercially. But what is clear from this is that
instead of going the safe root and doing a film that will please all he
has once again done his own thing the way he wanted to do it and the
result is a fantastic piece of film-making.

I really hope RocknRolla makes the money it deserves and gets a wider
release in America, it is a film that needs to be seen. Its funny,
clever, visually stunning and is a perfect example of a man doing
things his own way and not succumbing to the pressures of the media.
Well done Ritchie, well done cast, Im up for the Real RocknRolla and
when you see it so will you!
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this film and I obviously loved it. I had been a huge fan of
Guy Richie's "Snatch" and "Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels." Then he
married Madonna and made a few bum movies, especially "Revolver." Well
rest easy, Guy Richie Fans, the man who made the two great movies I
listed above is back and funnier, more intense, and a better
writer/director than ever. The first ten or twenty minutes of the movie
are a little confusing, but as long as you follow the characters and
events (which isn't hard to do since they're fantastic and well acted)
you'll understand and enjoy "RocknRolla". I'll also add that the
soundtrack is great.
<|_=00=_|>
After some failures in his career as a director, Guy Ritchie is back
with a fast paced, frenetic movie. A film about a Russian mobster
orchestrates a crooked land deal, millions of dollars are up for grabs,
and all of London?s criminal underworld wants in on the action.
Everyone from a dangerous crime lord to a sexy accountant, a corrupt
politician and down-on-their-luck petty thieves conspire, collude and
collide with one another in an effort to get rich quick. The story is
interesting and the plot is very well developed. Its a film with lots
of action and adventure, it has also a very good amount of black humor,
characteristic from Ritchie's movies, and full of twists and an
unexpected ending.The direction from Ritchie is excellent, the first
hour might be a little slow but from the second hour till the end the
movie takes a very fast rhythm and the fast forwards and slow motions
increases the intensity of the movie. The cast is amazing, Gerard
Butler gives a formidable performance, Thandie Newton also very good,
Tom Wilkinson flawless as always and the secondary roles from Toby
Kebbell (Johnny Quid), Idris Elba (Mumbles) and Mark Strong (Archie)
gave the movie a very good support. In conclusion, RocknRolla is a
entertaining movie you will enjoy and that will keep you on the edge of
your seat.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a typical Guy Ritchie film. With a wide range of characters and
some very powerful performances to random shots making you wonder where
the story is headed but just in time to converge in one final showdown
leaving you with just word.. WOW!! I can't help but compare it to
SNATCH..as they are similar in so many ways...but SNATCH was much more
intense, funny and a better script.

Some very fine performances from Gerard Butler from 300, Tom Wilkinson
from Michael Clayton but what really surprised me was outstanding
performance by Toby Kebbell. His subtle dialogue and crazy laughter
really spells horror and magic at the same time. The story takes you
through the world of mafia and spins all dramatic sequences with blood,
deceit and loads of humor. The scene where Gerard and his gang escape
from the two Russian militants... that scene made me laugh like crazy.

I just loved this movie and i can't wait to see the sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
RocknRolla seems to be the beginning of the resurrection of Guy
Ritchie's career. Not to anyone's surprise he does this with what he
has been so potent with throughout his career; a British gangster film.
If you've had any experience with Ritchie movies you know exactly what
you're getting into here, a comedic thriller. This of course may seem
problematic, in Ritchie's case it is not.

The writing and dialog is fast paced and quite witty and entertaining
to watch. The movie as a whole maybe be a bit of a head scratcher here
and there but the pay off is good and the idea is a bit of a parody of
itself which is what makes this film so fun.

What Ritchie accomplishes though, in the same way he has with his past
successful productions is putting together an extremely diverse and yet
correlating cast. This starts with the lead man in Gerard Butler whose
notoriety has steadily risen largely through his performances of
comical caricatures (not an insult). With RocknRolla Butler seems to
have found a role perfect for his appeal and charm he brings to the
screen. This is largely because of a witty script and great, fun
performances all around.

Then of course there is Mark Strong who until this year was largely a
total unknown, at least in the American mainstream. While Gerard Butler
may have found a genre he is most strongly suited for, Mark Strong
could certainly use this along with Body of Lies to launch to the very
least a respectable acting career. His posture, range and ability to
change tone and style subtly not only between films but within them is
something that should be and surely will be recognized.
<|_=00=_|>
Throughout his career, director Guy Ritchie (Snatch, Lock Stock and two
Smokin' Barrels) has slowly gathered a cult-like following, ensuring
that his movies, be they good or bad, will always earn a few dollars
from loyal fans. With his 2006 release of Revolver, many of his avid
followers found new 'stylistic' directors to drool over, the movie
itself receiving mostly negative reviews as a majority of moviegoers
claimed it to be 'all style and no substance'. His latest release,
RocknRolla, shows Ritchie returning to his roots of gangster oriented,
moronic villain centered, hit-man featuring fun. It's a welcome return.

RocknRolla is an ensemble piece, centering on many, many characters
while remaining surprisingly capable of not focusing on any one member
of the never-ending cast. Gerard Butler (300) plays a good-hearted
crook for hire by the name of One-Two, a member in a group of 5
blood-to-bones friends, each of which doubles as a partner in crime.
The main focus in the gangster-related circle of characters is Lenny
Cole, a ruthless, old fashioned thug brought to life by Oscar-nominated
Tom Wilkinson (Michael Clayton).

The movie truly begins 15 minutes or so after the rather unique opening
credits, which in itself foreshadows Ritchie's stylistic thematic which
circulates throughout the movie. The eclectically charged plot follows
Lenny Cole and his cohorts as they meet and greet Uri, a seemingly
reasonable Russian mobster, as the two speak real-estate business.
Cole, a self-proclaimed "King of London", runs each and every aspect of
London, and agrees to allow the Russians their building  for a small
sum of 7 million Euros. Agreeing, Uri offers Lenny his favourite
painting as a token of appreciation, a hopeful symbol that all will go
well.

From this point on, viewers are treated to a mishmash of confusing
twists, an infinite pallet of characters, and some of the most
intelligent writing to hit Hollywood in years. The afore-mentioned
painting is stolen from Cole, and a search ensues throughout the entire
movie, eventually leading to Johnny Quid (Jamie Campbell), the lead
singer of The Quidlickers, and step-son to none other than Lenny
himself. Quid, also known as "The Rocknrolla", represents a solid
contrast to his devilish step-father. Providing monologue after
brilliant monologue, Quid becomes a character of classic cool,
embodying olden day suave with modern day style, a true to time
Rocknrolla.

As with every one of Ritchie's gifts to the silver screen, the subtle
yet slick script throws the few negative aspects of the movie to the
backburner, leaving only pure gold to shimmer and shine. With a never
ending stream of British mannerisms combined with over-seas
terminology, North American viewers are faced with a rather tricky
dilemma: Sit through a movie that may require a small amount of effort
to comprehend due to it's foreign tendencies, or instead rely on
Dicaprio and Mr. Crowe to deliver yet another bland, meaningless CIA
centered action movie in the form of now premiering Body Of Lies.
Unfortunately for the masses that truly enjoy a movie with an
intelligent script, box office numbers generally speak poorly for Guy
Ritchie's films on our side of the pond, his movies usually making no
more than a few hundred thousand dollars, only to become cult hits once
released on DVD.

Viewers may be shocked to see Gerard Butler (best known for his overly
masculine performance as King Leonidas in 300) hidden amongst an
amazing yet unknown cast, with each actor holding their own and
providing more than authentic performances. It is a rare yet beautiful
sight to behold, a cast full of actors that have not yet been granted
the "fame" or spotlight, yet manage to upstage a majority of the actors
that we are presented on a day to day basis. It is beyond sad, the
least can be said, to see Chris Bridges  A.K.A. Ludicrous (2 Fast 2
Furious)  and Jeremey Pivens (Smokin' Aces) failing miserably in their
attempt to act in brief yet important cameo performances, also singled
out as the only two American actors in the film, their "talent"
shadowed and overcast by the nobodies surrounding them.

To those readers out there who are contemplating seeing this
not-quite-so-common piece of theatre in the form of British Cinema, it
is best for you to know there are many worse things you can do.
Director Guy Ritchie weaves an intricate quilt the likes of which
hasn't been since his debut to theatres, managing to create a truly
witty film from nothing more than a missing painting. Definitely a must
see.

5 out of 5 stars
<|_=00=_|>
Guy Ritchie's career has run red hot and ice cold over the yrs. Guy's
unique European gangster movies know how to have fun. Really cool
violence w/ really cool lines.

Guy Ritchie busted out w/ cult gangster faves Lock, Stock and Two
Smoking Barrels and Snatch. Then Madonna drained his awesome
storytelling w/ Swept Away. Then came weak Revolver. Madonna wrecked
one of my fave directors.

I put off seeing RocknRolla and I regret it. Guy Ritchie is back! Every
BLEEPING thing I love about his movies came back in a wave.
Unforgettable characters, bad a** story, cool lines, and plenty of
action to boot. He did get help from two BLEEPING great actors. Mark
Strong "Archy" and Toby Kebbell "Johnny Quid"

If you gave up on Guy Ritchie come back. RocknRolla will win you over.
