
This is a great movie, no doubt about it. But given the combination of
golden globe, Oscar buzz and positive feedback on IMDb, I expected much
more.

The story and the premise of the movie is perfect. In fact, the tagline
caught my attention enormously: "trying to reconnect with daughters."
That is exactly the type of movie I like. Instantly, I could tell this
was a movie about character development and human connection, usually
the type of movies with the greatest potential.

Unfortunately, it was merely decent, but not special. It felt like the
movie built up so much potential, but failed to release it at a certain
point during the movie. The whole movie, for me, felt too introductory
in nature. Not necessarily the plot, because the plot does evolve, but
the overall "feel" of the movie felt preliminary to a bigger and more
dramatic event which never happened.

It's not easy to explain my feelings towards the movie because the
fault wasn't necessarily technical or specific. But it did linger
around and distracted my viewing somewhat. I felt like there was still
more to explore in both Clooney's character and the character of his
daughters. Also, I think this element alone impacted on Clooney's
performance. His performance was good, definitely, but again, because I
felt like there was more to be explored, naturally, I also felt like
his performance could have been added to (but not necessarily
improved).

Given the Oscar buzz of this movie, I have to compare it to other
movies of a similar nature. And unfortunately, I didn't feel like there
was sufficient connection between the characters...although the
potential to reach that connection was established, it was not acted
upon in my opinion. Unfortunately I have to say there have been better
developed "re-establishing connection" movies.

In summary, this is an enjoyable movie, but it is missing some
important elements which deteriorates the viewing experience to some
extent.
<|_=00=_|>
The Descendants is not a movie that's easily defined. In the macro
view, it's about a man grieving for his wife, who lies in a coma from
which she may never emerge, while simultaneously attempting to care for
his two rambunctious daughters, each of whom is nearly alien to the
workaholic man. But don't hastily dismiss this as a tearjerker about
some guy coming to grips with mortality and/or learning a little
something about himself along the way. This is a movie that runs the
gamut of emotions, with pristine sincerity, grace, dignity, and rich
realism.

Matt King (George Clooney) is the workaholic, a lawyer who lives in
Hawaii. He has a good life - at least until his thrill-seeking wife
suffers a serious head injury during a powerboat race, placing her in a
deep coma. Matt's orderly life is no more. He must not only deal with
the fact that he may never speak with his wife again, he must also
learn an entirely new way of life - one with a domestic tinge. As wife
Elizabeth's condition deteriorates, Matt must also deal with family and
friends and open doors he never knew existed. All right, that's sort of
cryptic, so let me give you this tidbit that is in no way a secret in
the plot - Elizabeth, Matt shortly discovers, was having an affair at
the time of her accident. 

On top of all of that stress and drama, Matt is the sole trustee of a
huge plot of land that has been a part of his family for a very, very
long time. He and his cousins have decided to field offers for the
land, because the trust becomes dissolved in seven short years. Should
they sell to the highest bidder or to a local businessman? Either
outcome would leave all of them very rich indeed. The sale of the land
will make a huge impact on the island, as it could transform what many
see as a beautiful, nearly untouched mark of beauty into a symbol of
avarice and decadence.

The core of the entire story is Clooney's unbelievably terrific
performance; he is vulnerable, strong, confused, decisive, anguished,
angry. It's not every actor who can pull off such a wide range of
expression, and Clooney is so effective in this movie that you
sincerely feel as if you are standing directly in his shoes, seeing all
from his perspective rather than just through his eyes. To say that
Clooney's Matt is troubled is an understatement, but what makes this
performance so remarkable to me is that at no time does he have all of
the answers, and at no time does he have no answers at all. He is, to
put it another way, us. 

The tremendous amount of pressure under which Matt finds himself is
exacerbated by his daughters' behavior; partly their reaction to their
mother's plight but also because, well, they're precocious and self-
absorbed, as most kids are when they're teens or preteens. Add in
Matt's cluelessness about how to take care of girls; then you have a
real recipe for a wacky sitcom, don't you? Only here it's as real as it
gets. First there's 10 year old Scotti (newcomer Amara Miller), who
acts out in class - including bringing in pictures of her comatose
mother for show and tell. Scotti seems like a girl who just hasn't had
enough of a male influence in her short life; you get the impression
that Mom was the one who took care of the kids while Dad worked and
worked. As a result, Scotti is combining typical rebellious behavior
with confusion on how she should feel about her mother's being in a
coma. Then there's Alexandra, currently away at boarding school; for
her, you get the clear impression that she's a real problem child who's
used to being shunted from school to school, like a queen of diamonds
in a marked-up deck. She's away when the accident occurs; Matt
retrieves her (discovering she's as wild as always) and necessarily
leans on her to help him deal with his various problems.

Rest assured, there are moments that will jerk tears from you. However,
director Alexander Payne does an amazing job of keeping everything
level. This isn't a four-hankie movie, because life isn't a four-hankie
movie. Life has its terrible moments and its joyous ones, too, and this
film emulates that layer of authenticity to really deliver an
emotionally powerful, provocative, and endearing story. 

This isn't a movie you can just grab the kids and some popcorn and be
lightly entertained, but it's also not a Think Hard movie. It's
somewhere in the middle - again, much like life. Payne and cowriters
Nat Faxon and Jim Rash allow us to become psychologically engaged with
everything concerning Matt and his family. We're with him so much that
when he makes a blunder, we think to ourselves that we'd probably make
the same blunder. It's a pleasure to see a movie in which the
protagonist clearly doesn't have all of the answers, even to the easy
questions, but has some answers to the hard ones. And that's why this
is a hard movie to pigeonhole, and it's also why it's such a beautiful,
artful film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a bust. The premise is simple혰unbelievably simple, given
the length of the movie: a man's wife goes into a coma as the result of
a boating accident and he learns, via one of his daughters, that she
was having an affair. There's more to it, of course, but nothing
interesting: e.g., Clooney in voice-over tells us he's "the back up
parent," so we see a few scenes of him failing at being "Mr. Mom" and a
few scenes of him fighting with his eldest daughter. Yet, remarkably, a
half-hour into the movie the entire family is getting along so well
that they all troop off to a different Hawaiian island in search of the
mystery man Mom was having the affair with, with the oldest daughter
even playing a lead detective role.

What unfolds is hour upon hour of the family walking on beaches,
driving down roads, etc., all of which culminates in a kitchen scene
where Clooney confronts the man, played by Matt Lillard, about the
affair. Lillard, whose acting has not deepened from his Scooby-Doo
days, ensures that the scene has no dramatic impact. Then it's back to
the hospital to watch Mom die.

The script is unbelievably flat-footed; its idea of humor is having
children shout profanity at each other. (I'm no prude혰-but I'm not 12,
either.) There's even an odd disconnect to the more "dramatic" scenes.
Because we've never seen anyone interact with Mom혰she's just a corpse,
lying there혰we have no way of judging the believability of anyone's
reaction to her death. We're simply bludgeoned by the musical score
into accepting that any given scene is sad. The movie operates on a
simple syllogism: the characters are crying, so you should too.

Still, judging by the audience's reaction, this movie will be a major
success. I'm enough of an adult to admit when I'm odd-man-out. At each
curse word, the audience roared with laughter; for each tear-jerker
scene, the waterworks flowed. The Hawaiian landscape is beautifully
shot, and the Hawaiian music is lovely, too. Unfortunately, I didn't
pay $9.50 for a travelogue.
<|_=00=_|>
The director of this movie, Alexander Payne, was the guy who made
"Sideways." This is a very different movie in that it focuses on family
relationships rather than those between friends and lovers. But, Payne
displays--in this touching and very real movie--the same incredible
talent for doing two things better than almost every other movie maker
(at least as far as I'm concerned): 1) he brings the viewer into the
geography and milieu of the time and place in a gritty way that clearly
presents the natural beauty of the area without over-romanticizing it
and 2) he fits the characters into this environment and achieves a
reality for these people that transcends the 2-dimensional characters
that populate the multiplexes. You really care about these people.

Another similarity between the characters in "Sideways" and this movie
is that the protagonists are, in at least one important way, lost. They
both are also honest with themselves.

And thank God Payne did not use an orchestra for the soundtrack that
would foreshadow and punctuate the scenes telling us how our emotions
should run...I will not tell you what the soundtrack is, other than to
say it's perfect.

This is not a comedy though there are a few laugh lines. Clooney will
get the Oscar for this...how can he not? He is in every scene, and I
cannot imagine him being better. And Shailene Woodley plays his older
daughter: just amazing. A beautifully realized character.

I tried carefully here to give nothing away but to encourage you to see
this as soon as you can. Brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
The Descendants is a tragic and heartfelt family drama set against a
backdrop of the sights and sounds of modern Hawaii. The music is
wonderful, and the scenery of several Hawaiian islands is amazing.

George Clooney is outstanding as the father of a family torn apart by
tragedy. His character deals with unsettling secrets of his dying wife
and his broken relationships with his two troubled daughters. Forced to
deal with the consequences of neglecting his family, Clooney does a
great job capturing conflicting and powerful emotions.

Shailone Woodley does a wonderful job as the rebellious older daughter,
who captures the anger and hurt of a teenager betrayed by her mother
and abandoned by her father. Her relationship with her father is the
heart of the movie, and they slowly learn to rely on each other for
support and strength in dealing with the loss of their mother/wife.

The film has a wonderful supporting cast that adds humanity and heart
to the tragic story. Nick Krause stands out as the oldest daughter's
friend, who adds a touch of laughter and perspective to the film. His
open and carefree personality grates on the characters initially but
helps them to eventually gain perspective on the tragic events.

Overall, the Descendants was an excellent movie that captures the raw
emotions of a family dealing with betrayal, pain, and loss and learning
to draw together for love and support.
<|_=00=_|>
I hadn't seen so many elderly folks in a movie theatre, since I saw The
King's Speech last year. I suppose there is a bit of irony in
considering that a film called the Descendants has an audience of
ancestors.

The best thing about the movie however, is that I think it can be
appreciated greatly by any adult age group, elder or not. There are
laughs to be had and tears to be shed. The film centres around middle
aged, Matt King; a Hawaiian land baron attempting to connect with his
children with the knowledge that his comatose wife is at death's
doorstep, and he knows that she had an affair before her accident.
Meanwhile, he is under pressure from his network of cousins to sell his
inherited land to the kind of real estate that wants to put up a
seaside condo-mania. 

In essence, it's a recovery story. The formula is not entirely 'new'
yet the somewhat paradoxical balance of refinement and dry humour are
enough to elevate this to a very well rounded story. As far as drama
comedies go, The Descendants is ideal.

This may be George Clooney's best lead performance to date. I think it
is the first role that doesn't require him to be slick or charismatic
even for a moment. He is rather scruffy, but more importantly, he is
human. Clooney brings range to the role, hitting all the right notes,
funny and serious alike.

I like the fact that even though we are on Hawaii (a photographer's
paradise) the island doesn't look all that special. It's important that
The islands look just as mundane to the audience as it would to the
characters who inhabitant it. Most of the time it's cloudy, and low
brow, except for the few moments where it is necessary to bring out the
sunshine, as we stand on a cliffs edge with the King family overlooking
dozens of acres of land which could very soon become merchandise.

Another thing I like about the Descendents (which you don't see often)
is an ending that is both happy and sad. Some say that great films are
the ones that leave you wanting more. The Descendants did this to me,
and it's probably the closest thing to a great film I've seen this
year.
<|_=00=_|>
Alexander Payne hasn't made a film from the director's chair since his
incredible Sideways back in 2004. Seven years later, he finally
returns, and with The Descendants, he returns with a bang.

Like Sideways, his screenplay (co-written by Nat Faxon and Jim Rash)
nails the tone right on the head. It has to balance out three tricky
narratives in the film (Matt King's self-crisis, his comatose wife's
affair with another man before her boating accident, and a land deal
he's reported to make), and without the proper guidance it needed,
along with Payne's own confidant direction, it could have faltered.
Thankfully, it balances out heavy themes and complicated emotions in
uncommon detail.

The characters in this movie are many, complicated, and sorrowful in
their own unique ways. Matt King was a perfect role for George Clooney.
He keeps his composure, but we can still see a very heavy, filtered
sorrow beneath the surface. Shailene Woodley's character (Woodley, by
the way, gives one of the year's best performances) begins with a
rebellious, even angry sadness, but we can see her develop over the
course of the film, gaining a strong maturity beyond her years. Judy
Greer and Robert Forster are each given a few spare scenes, and they
make every second of their screen time count.

It really is an emotional ride, even depressing sometimes, but I'm
surprised by the occasional review I read where critics say they didn't
feel the emotion to be sincere. In my opinion, the emotions of the film
never hit a single false note. I don't think just anybody could have
made this movie the way it is. This isn't a typical drama, the movie's
genre is Payne, and he knows exactly what he's doing.

***1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
I love the freedom oozing from Alexander Payne's films. The clarity and
simplicity of the idea and its execution. All the answers and unity
found under a grieving cloud. George Clooney's Matt King is, quite
simply, superb. The humanity of the man mingling with his
contradictions. So refreshing to spend time with this immediately
recognizable man. I couldn't help but loving him. If it's true that
Clooney dominates the film, he is surrounded by compelling characters.
His eldest daughter, played by the remarkable Shailene Woodley for
instance or her boyfriend, a winning Nick Krause, contribute to make
"The Descendants" one of the best films of 2011.
<|_=00=_|>
It has been quite some time since the Toronto International Film
Festival, but I still have trouble coming up with something negative to
say about The Descendants. It was a film I was immensely excited to
see, and one that I think I just managed to squeak into on the second
last day of the festival. I tried to not overhype myself, but with
George Clooney teaming up with Alexander Payne, a filmmaker whose last
film was made almost a decade ago, I could barely contain myself.

Matt King (Clooney) just found out that his wife is in a coma in the
hospital. Matt has always been one to put things off, and has never
really found time for his kids. But in this time of need, he finds that
he is struggling to identify with older daughter Alexandra (Shailene
Woodley) and younger daughter Scottie (Amara Miller). When he learns of
a stunning secret about his wife, it thrusts him into an adventure
alongside his daughters to find out the truth, while also finding
himself. 

From beginning to end, Payne has crafted an endearing film that is
hilarious and devastating, often in the same sequence. This is a more
calculated family-related effort than I originally thought it would be
(with a bit too much emphasis placed on the extended family and land
owning subplot), but it is the driving force of everything that happens
on-screen. He never overindulges, and never gets too far ahead of
himself. He lets the drama play out just as much as he does the comedy,
and always keeps the film moving at a borderline ridiculous pace. This
may be an indie, but it speaks more to the mainstream than Sideways
ever even tried to. It is a truly spectacular work, and one that proves
the worth of a talent that has been gone for far too long.

While he already solidified his leading man status years ago, Clooney
quite simply knocks this one out of the park. It is not the typical
role we are accustomed to seeing him in, and I think that is what sells
it the most. This is a very mature role for Clooney, away from the
playboys, the lotharios and the screwballs. He is out of his element,
much like the character he is playing, thrust into a situation he never
expected in a very adult way. He plays Matt in a very nuanced way,
always hovering along the fine line of being a struggling parent and
having a full blown emotional breakdown. Clooney has continually proved
that he is willing to reinvent himself, and his work here is no
different. From the moment he steps on-screen, you are simply enamoured
by his presence. We can see the brief twinkle in his eye that suggests
he is still the Clooney we all know and adore, but his hardened
exterior suggests he is trying to camouflage that fact. I said years
ago that Up in the Air was his strongest work. But his work here makes
it look positively amateur in comparison.

For all of Clooney's brilliance, it is surprising to note that Woodley
almost steals the movie entirely away from him. While she has had quite
a lot of experience on television, this is her first real film role and
is an immeasurable breakout. The trailer suggests she is a bit of a
wild child, but seeing the heartbreak and pain in her face after she
finds out what has happened to her mother is enough to make you want to
weep uncontrollably. Lucky for her, she gets more than one scene to
prove her emotional chops, and she nails each and every one. She holds
her own against Clooney, and has just the right amount of charisma and
angst to make her character above and beyond believable. Her struggle
to find her place and to help her father on this adventure is the
emotional crux of the film, and the real driving spirit. She may be
extremely younger than Clooney is, but she is an old soul. Their
relationship and chemistry is amazing, and should she have been acting
against a less capable actor, I doubt she would be anywhere near as
powerful as she is.

The supporting cast, made up of Beau Bridges, Judy Greer, Nick Krause,
Robert Forster and an almost unrecognizable Matthew Lilliard, are all
excellent in their small roles. All of them get some really memorable
moments to shine, and help to make Clooney and Woodley's performances
even greater. Special mention needs to go to both Patricia Hastie, who
is confined to a hospital bed for all but about thirty seconds of her
screen-time as Matt's wife Elizabeth, and newcomer Miller as Scottie.
She is naive and innocent throughout, never once coming off as that
annoying kid you try to forget exists. She has a lot of fun in the
role, and strikes a real emotional chord at just the right moments. I
can only hope directors continue to use her in the future for roles
that are just as good, if not better.

It may have taken me practically two months to write about it, but I
still find myself at a loss for words about The Descendants. It is
finally rolling out into theatres now, and I cannot wait to see the
film again. The cast is amazing, with Clooney coming out swinging.
Payne may have taken his time finding a follow-up for Sideways, but
what he has returned with is nothing short of amazing. Run, drive, fly
혯 whatever you have to do, just make sure you do not miss it.

9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of the best movies I've seen in a while, and that's
judging it from what it is. I became a fan of A P after watching
Sideways and ended up reading the book before watching the movie. I
think the biggest problem people have with this movie is that it's not
the typical "HOLLYWOOD" movie that forces "emotion" down our throat nor
is it the typical "INDIE" film with shaky cameras, far out one shots
and so on. It's simple, a bit plain, and raw. We're presented with
characters that may not seem interesting at first look, but when it
comes down to it, AP has once again showed us a reflection of ourselves
and people we know around us. We're normal. We're not all flashy people
with cool lives and have interesting personalities. Some people just
ARE and live that way. I recently lost the person who would have been
my mother in law. I'm twenty four, and my girlfriend is twenty two, and
her little sister is fourteen. My girlfriend has recently taken custody
over her sister, and with their father passing away before the little
sister was born, I've found myself in a bit of a father role and it's
scary and new and very strange at times. I completely related to
Clooney's character right away, and could feel the frustration he felt,
and the emotions he felt. I think he did well with dealing with them.
It felt real to me. In fact, everyone's emotions toward the tragedy the
film presents felt very real. I saw those same reactions from sisters,
aunties, uncles, grandfathers and grandmothers. Some blamed others
while others completely lost it. Some felt mad, while others just cried
and broke down. Some were oblivious to the news(like the grand mother
in the movie) while others were simply there to comfort(Sid). I really
appreciated the entire movie, scenery, and dialogue(and at times lack
there of). I really enjoyed the frustration they felt one minute, the
humor the next, and the forgetfulness of the tragedy at times. It was
like seeing a movie based on what my girlfriend and I were going
through, and it felt comforting that someone had captured that so well.
Not every tragedy will be filled with a room full of criers. Some
might. Not all we be filled with humor and relief. Some will. For us,
it was everything. It didn't seem real, and at times, it seemed dull.
This movie has a special way of presenting itself in that manner and I
really liked it. I'm sure not everyone will like. Either they're use to
super hero action movies, horror movies, or stuff like Twilight. Maybe
you are into good dramas and indie flicks and for whatever reason you
didn't connect with that one. For me, a person who's just lived through
it and am discovering to be a dad type to someone I'm still getting to
know혚it was simple, perfect.

10/10
