
First of all, I have to say that I'm generally not a fan of biopics,
they just aren't the type of movie I seek out. I got tickets to the
sneak preview and my wife really wanted to go. Anyway, that preamble
out of the way, I really did enjoy the movie.

Eddie the Eagle is a story about an underdog in every sense of the
word. One theme that is repeated throughout the movie, is the quote
from Pierre de Coubertin (father of the modern Olympics), "The
important thing in the Olympic Games is not to win, but to take part;
the important thing in Life is not triumph, but the struggle; the
essential thing is not to have conquered but to have fought well." The
story follows Eddie from the time he's a little kid with dreams of
going to the Olympics. It follows him through his many assorted
set-backs, and all the people around him who saw only failure in his
future. It also shows the moments when he got helping hands when he
most needed it. This movie is about his struggle.

The casting in the movie was quite good. I remember Eddie the Eagle
from TV when I was young, and Taron Egerton does an excellent job in
the role of Eddie. Hugh Jackman puts in a good performance as the coach
Bronson Peary, and manages not to overpower Eddie's character. But
while Taron Egerton really assumes the part of Eddie, a lot of Hugh
Jackman leaks into his role as coach Peary.

The roles of Eddie's parents are also well played, and the actress
playing his mother, Jo Hartley, gives a particularly poignant
portrayal. The father, played by Keith Allen (currently uncredited on
IMDb) is a bit of a caricature, but well acted. Actually, a lot of the
supporting cast of characters are caricatures, especially the other
ski-jumpers/coaches and the British Olympians/Olympic Committee. But to
an extent that serves to emphasize the struggle for Eddie. Also, for
those intent on seeing this film for Christopher Walked, he has a very
small role.

While, I have emphasized the struggle aspect of the story, there is a
lot of comedy thrown into the mix as well. The tone is upbeat
throughout, even when Eddie has setbacks. While some of the failures
are played for laughs (mostly early in the film), it's mostly Eddie's
perseverance that makes this film endearing. It also feels like we're
laughing with Eddie rather than at him, since it seems Eddie's in on
the joke.

If you're on the fence about seeing this movie, I say give it a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie at an advance screening and Eddie the Eagle was awesome. 

The movie did not disappoint at all.

Great insight into the story of Eddie Edwards and the sport of ski
jumping.

Very dangerous sport but very beautiful to look at. 

The movie had a lot of heart and humor. 

Will look forward to this movie making its way on Blu-ray. 

I would gladly pay to add it to my collection. 

Great visuals as well. 

I wish the movie gets the praise it deserves as it really is better
than a lot of the trash coming thru movie theaters now.
<|_=00=_|>
With a nice touch of humor you cannot come away from this movie without
feeling a sense of accomplishment regardless of the actual outcome. The
movie inspires you to reflect on any challenge we may have faced on our
own lives and inspires us to actually rethink how we may have handled
it or behaved differently. Taron Edgerton played a very believable
character giving the audience a real sense at who Eddie Edwards really
was and how he lived his youth through perseverance and fortitude by
simply not giving up. The film cleverly portrays this very quickly
through a brief introduction into Eddies childhood. The story is
written well and the story really gives us a sense of who Eddie is and
the drive to fulfill a promise to himself. Hugh Jackman brings a
humorous side to the film with just enough serious touch that you do
not loose sight of the significant effort that was made by Eddie
Edwards. I was glad to be invited to a early preview and hope that all
who see this film enjoy it as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
A very funny, enjoyable and inspiring movie for the whole family.

A human interest film that are rare these days with so many movies that
rely on bravado and special effects.

Based on a true story, which proves if you have dreams from a young age
that persist you should follow them no matter what the odds are against
them and ignore all the doubters that tell you you cannot achieve them.

The human spirit and believing in one's self are very powerful forces.

Eddie is a character that you cannot dislike. 

Hugh Jackman's character helps Eddie achieve his dream since Eddie
would not be deterred.

Eddie unknowingly helps Hugh Jackman's character out of his funk and he
is re-born again.

We highly recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Some films are merely created for entertainment and to tell a story.
This is one of those films that you're not going to hear about during
award season but it was certainly satisfying and worth the time.

Egerton was a perfect choice to play Eddie, from his off beat humor to
his on spot facial expressions, and Hugh Jackman is a great compliment
as the supporting role. Both characters are total opposites, each
flawed in their own way, but really mesh together on screen.

The movie is fun and the story, based on the Eddie the Eagles dream of
going to the Olympics, was nicely told with clean comedy paced
throughout. 

Not knowing the outcome of the true story, I was on edge rooting for
Eddie throughout - just like the crowds in the stands on film. 

Really glad they made this film, it's such a fun story and Eddie The
Eagle is so deserving for a film that honors his hard work dedicated to
his Olympic dream.

Have fun with this one!
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I saw this in a free screening prior to it opening for
regular audiences, and I even wondered if I loved it so much because it
was free, but I think I would have liked it just as much had I paid to
see it! I do think that the movie benefits from being shown on a big
wide screen with all the outdoor scenes - not sure I would have liked
it so much had I seen it on a TV size screen. I felt all the characters
were perfectly cast. While it may seem like a nit, the only annoying
factor to me was that Eddie's glasses were falling down his nose the
whole time - and while I know that was part of the character, it drove
me crazy watching him!! However, the movie kept my interest the entire
time, and was extremely enjoyable. By the end, I had tears of happiness
streaming down my face - definitely one of the best feel-good movies I
have seen in a long time!! HIGHLY recommend!!
<|_=00=_|>
The British love a plucky loser. "Eddie the Eagle" tells the
astonishing but true story of everyman plasterer Eddie Edwards who
qualified for, and then competed in, the Calgary Olympics in 1988
(probably most famous for those other plucky losers  the Jamaican
bobsleigh team of Disney's "Cool Runnings" fame). I have absolutely no
idea how the traditionally more success-driven and competitive American
audience will see it, but the packed English showing I attended all
clearly loved this film as a feel-good classic.

The film starts with Eddie's childhood, struggling out of leg braces to
try to pursue his Olympic dream with no success whatsoever. (Excellent
performances here by brothers Tom and Jack Costello who set-up the tone
for the film). His battle is not just against his lack of skill: whilst
his mother (Jo Hartley) is quietly supportive, his father Terry (Keith
Allen) is  not unreasonably it must be said  hugely frustrated at his
son's fanciful ideas, wanting him to follow in the family plastering
tradition with the same zeal. (The gulf in ambition is vast  Eddie:
"Didn't you have a dream when you were younger Dad?"; Terry: "Yes,
plastering".)

Eventually Eddie finds a sport he is half decent in (by British
standards!): downhill skiing, but is thwarted in following his Olympic
dreams by smarmy and sneering Olympic selector Dustin Target, played by
Tim McInnerny (from "Black Adder" and "Notting Hill" someone who has
rather cornered the market on 'smarmy and sneering'). It is then that
he exploits ancient rules in the UK Olympic playbook to try to qualify
in the discipline of ski-jumping: something no one has done since the
1920's. Linking up in Austria with an alcohol-infused coach and ex-
jumper Bronson Peary (Hugh Jackman), Eddie faces the terrors of the 40m
and then 70m jumps to try to learn the sport (16 years too late).

This film has been long in gestation, with both Steve Coogan and Rupert
Grint originally earmarked for the role. But Matthew Vaughn's
involvement in the current project probably contributed to Taron
Egerton getting the job following their work together on last year's
"Kingsman". And a great choice he is too. Almost unrecognizable from
the sharp- suited Eggsy in "Kingsman" and gangster-sidekick Teddy in
"Legend", Egerton switches effortlessly between clueless goofball and
steely determined sportsman. 

The film's emotional heart though is with Hugh Jackman's side-story,
battling with drink after throwing his own chance away with US-coach
Warren Sharp (a nice cameo by Christopher Walken). Although going a
little OTT at times (we see for example that he is no Meg Ryan!),
Jackman provides a solid acting foundation that the rest of the cast
can play off.

Rounding out the cast are solid performances from Jo Hartley ("This is
England") as Eddie's Mum, Mark Benton ("Waterloo Road") as a BOA
official, Rune Temte as a bear of a Norwegian coach and the
ever-warming Jim Broadbent as a BBC commentator.

An 'attaboy' should also go to the special effects crew headed up by
Marty McLaughlin for making believe a man can fly. Whilst  you
understand  not in any way doubting Jackman's ability to risk his
pretty face on a 90m jump, the nighttime sequence of him doing that
jump is really nicely executed (with cinematography by George
Richmond).

A quick browse at Wikipedia will make it clear that there has been a
lot of license taken with this as a "true story", and to be fair the
prefix "based on a.." was used! And the film is not without
irritations: Terry's negativity to his son's actions is about 25%
overplayed in Simon Kelton's story, and the coach/protégé sub-plot has
been overused in the past. The soundtrack (music) by Matthew Margeson
is also rather grating particularly early on in the film: it is
presumably going for 'period' in its use of Hammond organ cheesiness,
but that music was tiresome in the 80's too! Fortunately Margeson
redeems himself with some kick-ass (no pun intended) classic 80's
tracks neatly edited into the action.

These criticisms aside, I dare you to come out of this film without a
silly grin on your face. I certainly did. Directed by Dexter Fletcher
("Sunshine on Leith") it's not likely to win any Oscars, but in setting
out to deliver what it said on the can it succeeded in all respects.

(Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com to see the graphical version of
this review. You can also subscribe there for future reviews. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
The film makers themselves warn you with the movie being publicized as
a feel-good, underdog tale that provides family entertainment. And that
is EXACTLY what this movie is!!! And even though the movie does not
bring in anything new or more than what was expected from it, it is
definitely a good watch.

The characters are extremely likable and the movie will have you
rooting for 'Eddie' in no time.

From what I have read, the movie was not shot in Canada and is very
loosely based on the actual life of the real Eddie the Eagle, so people
from Calgary and people who actually know a lot about the real Eddie
might be slightly disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
As a Southern-Californian, snow might as well come from a different
world. We receive at the most, a few flurries in the winter, but even
then, it needs to be on a full moon on a leap year if it's not Tuesday.
That said, we can still provide a wealth of athletes in sports that are
played in the winter. Both local ice hockey teams, the Anaheim Ducks
and the Los Angeles Kings, have won the Stanley Cup and are seen as
some of the best hockey teams in America. Shaun White, famous
snowboarder, hails from San Diego and Michelle Kwan, the figure skater,
is from the L.A. area.

The lesson here is that a champion can come from anywhere. A good movie
that provides this example is Cool Runnings from Disney. This portrays
the country of Jamaica creating a bobsled team for the 1988 Winter
Olympics. Though goofy and clearly not a realistic representation of
what happened, the movie was upbeat about one following their dreams to
become an Olympic athlete. What's interesting that today's movie was
set during the same 1988 Olympics. Eddie the Eagle looks at an aspiring
ski jumper as he tries to go fro the gold.

Ever since he was a young boy, Eddie Edwards has wanted to go to the
Olympics, yet has little athletic skill. He tries his hand at several
sports until he sees skiing as his best shot. As an adult, Eddie
(played by Taron Egerton) seems to be doing well, he's not selected to
join the British downhill skiing team due to his odd technique and just
simply not being one of the best. He then sees that the country has not
had a ski jumper in a long time, and decides to take advantage of that
empty spot to secure a spot.

He packs his bags for Germany at the official training facility where
his attempts to mingle with the other ski jumpers are met with
laughter. While trying out the hills, he comes across alcoholic snow
groomer Bronson Peary (played by Hugh Jackman). Eddie finds out that he
used to be a part of the American Olympic team under the coaching of
Warren Sharp (played by Christopher Walken). He takes pity and agrees
to give Eddie the proper coaching. Eddie manages to win a local match
that qualifies him to join the Olympic team. While the odds of winning
are low, he's happy to be chasing his dream.

Eddie the Eagle sounds like your run of the mill sport biography
andbasically isbut it's also self aware of that and has fun with
itself. I can't think of another movie where ski jumping is portrayed
and it looks really cool on a cinematic scale. The sport's high flying
action allows for some impressive shots to prove that it was not
computer generated. 

Like Cool Runnings, it's also clearly not using the same story, given
how silly a lot of the scenes flow. While it's not laugh out loud
hilarious, it makes up by being just as upbeat as the latter. Taron
Egerton is proving his worth as an actor, managing to be the perfect
athlete and dweeb in one crazy experiment. You know his character is
out of their element, but Taron makes him very likable. Hugh Jackman
does well as his coach, more or less throwing in a lot of his charm and
ability to play off the comedic writing to his advantage. Hugh gains
cool points for his shot of ski jumping with a cigarette in his mouth. 

Going into Eddie the Eagle, you really need to be in the right mood for
it to hit you in the right spot.

I'll give this eight and a half ski jumpers out of ten. Those that want
a gripping story of an athlete should look someplace else. But for
those that want something upbeat like Cool Runnings and Rudy, then
Eddie the Eagle should please you well enough. Despite the premise,
this is no downhill crash; it's a flier that knows where to land.
<|_=00=_|>
We all have a dream or have had a dream at some point, at least. You
may not have achieved your dream (yet), but I'm sure you remember what
it is, even if you're not currently pursuing it. You may have been
stopped or been hindered from seeing your dream come true because
people told you it wasn't realistic or refused to support you when you
needed them to (or both). Or maybe you chose to give up on that dream
because you decided yourself that it wasn't practical or because you
came to believe that you were too old, too busy, too poor, too
"whatever" to dream anymore. If any of this sounds familiar, then
"Eddie the Eagle" (PG-13, 1:45) just might be your kind of movie. (And
if ALL of this sounds familiar, you need to drop everything and go see
this movie immediately  before it's too late!) The movie poster says
"Inspired by a Dream Come True". That's appropriate (even if it's also
a bit of a spoiler). In other words, this film is indeed inspired by a
true story, but it's a highly fictionalized account of what really
happened. There really is an Eddie Edwards who was nicknamed "The
Eagle" and became Britain's only ski jumper in order to realize his
childhood dreams of Olympic glory at the 1988 winter games in Calgary.
Except for a few more details, that's about where the similarities
between the film and reality end. Personally, I think the omitted
details of Edwards' story are even more interesting than what appears
on screen, but maybe they were left out to simplify the movie or make
it even more of a crowd-pleaser. If that was the goal, mission
accomplished! The filmmakers did, however, cast an actor who could act
and be made to look like the real Edwards, right down to his gestures.
It is impressive.

Since childhood, Eddie Edwards (Taron Egerton) had Olympic dreams, even
though he was pudgy, had no discernible athletic talent and even wore a
knee brace for years. But he kept his dream alive. Eddie tried his hand
at a number of different Olympic events, unable to find the right one
for him. But he kept trying. Many different people, including Eddie's
own father, criticized and even mocked his dreams. But he just ignored
them. Eddie decided on ski jumping even though he didn't know anything
about it and was told repeatedly that, even in his early 20s, he was
way too old to learn it and get good at it. But he still gave it his
best shot. There were even multiple predictions of Eddie's failure,
injury or even death if he pushed forward. But he refused to let fear
or uncertainty stop him. At one point, Eddie proclaims, "I taking
jumping very seriously. I love it. Nearly as much as I love proving
people wrong." That he does.

Eddie didn't even have a coach. That is, until he suddenly left the
home of his frustrated father and supportive mother (Jo Hartley),
traveled to a ski jumping facility in Germany and met one of the
employees, Bronson Peary (Hugh Jackman). Bronson is a former Olympic
ski jumper who let his bad attitude derail his jumping career. He
squandered his potential, ending up working as a maintenance man and
drowning his sorrows in alcohol. As Eddie does small jumps and tries to
learn how to jump by trial and error, Bronson repeatedly tells him to
quit. Eventually, Bronson agrees to teach Eddie a few things, if for no
other reason, to keep Eddie from killing himself as he trains. And if
Eddie manages to overcome his alcoholic coach's gruffness  and his own
lack of experience (talent) as a jumper, he still must get past the
British Olympic Committee whose leader (Tim McInnerny) is intent on
stopping Eddie.

"Eddie the Eagle" soars! Egerton is powerful, fun and funny in what is
best described as a transformative performance, to be appreciated even
more by those who saw him as a street-punk-turned-suave-secret-agent in
2015's "Kingman: The Secret Service". 2016 just serves to confirm
Egerton as one of the finest young acting talents working today. Here,
he makes a wonderful and endearing underdog. This film's story arc
recalls another inspiring (basically) true sports story  1993's
"Rudy". Like many such movies, "Eddie" is guilty of being formulaic
(right down to Jackman's charming, but now familiar portrayal of an
underdog's main supporter) and I wish this film had stuck a little
closer to the actual story, but these issues do little to harm the
movie's emotional power and the sheer enjoyment of being in the
audience.

Regardless of how successful Eddie is (or isn't) in the end, you'll
want to stand up and shout, "Do you believe in miracles? YES!!" Hmmm.
Sorry. Wrong Winter Olympics movie, but you get the point. "Eddie the
Eagle" IS the feel-good movie of the year! If you have (or ever had) a
dream, you're likely to enjoy this film and it may even inspire you to
dream about things you never thought possible. Isn't all that what
movies are for? Everyone reading this review is witnessing the
beginning of me realizing my dreams. This film reminded me of the
rewards of determination and the joys of overcoming obstacles and
accomplishing goals. I believe it will do the same for you  and
entertain you in the process. "A-"
