
Some people have derisively compared this film to The Blair Witch
Project because it was all told from the point of view of someone's
shaking camera. Unless you have motion sickness, I don't think that's a
bad thing. What matters is who's in front of the camera. While The
Blair Witch Project featured annoying people screaming at each other,
this movie actually made me care about the characters. In fact if it
had continued with the romantic drama tone established during the first
half hour, I STILL think it would have been worth watching and that's
the biggest compliment I can give it.

Of course people will be watching this movie for the visceral pleasure
and Colverfield delivers. Many thrilling visual and sound effects wowed
me (there were a few times I yelled out in shock at a sudden scare).
Any horror film will also benefit from a sense of entrapment and this
movie pulls off the seemingly impossible feat of making New York City
seem claustrophobic because there was seemingly nowhere to hide from
the monster.

What is the monster? Whatever it is clearly is meant to be an allegory
for the carnage 9/11 inflicted on New York, much the same way Godzilla
was meant to be an allegory for the damage inflicted on Japan by the
atom bomb. There are moments seemingly recreating the documentary
footage from 9/11, and they give the film verisimilitude. Touching upon
real life horror, plus creating characters that we can relate to and
care about, and assaulting our senses with incredible sights and sounds
leads to entertainment worth watching many times over. Perhaps the 80
minute run time will bother some people, but on the other hand I think
that's better than a film wearing out its welcome. Great job J.J.
Abrams and company!
<|_=00=_|>
It was nice to finally watch movie that didn't seem like anything I'd
ever seen before. This, much like Spielberg's "War of the Worlds" and
"Children of Men", completely immerses you in this incredible situation
with absolutely no knowledge to comfort you. It's very disorienting,
which adds to the experience; you never figure out what the hell is
going on but you're so into survival that you put it past you. You're
placed with a bunch of characters whom you get to know and eventually
must join in their frenzied search for a friend while being subjected
to some horrifying imagery and new threats.

The effects look great and realistic thanks to the hand-held camera,
which isn't too bad-looking if you manage to get a seat further from
the screen. The filmmakers came up with some really great creature
designs that were menacing yet very much original. If you're bound to
be upset over seeing a movie with a lack of music, then stay for the
credits, during which a fantastic suite of music composed by Michael
Giacchino titled "Roar! (Cloverfield Theme)" plays.

All in all, a fantastic time at the movies. A little more background on
the monster would be nice, though the absence of this information is
intentional. Everyone in the theater was rooting for a sequel; maybe a
second set of footage is found elsewhere? Or perhaps there is more the
the viral marketing -- what exactly were Slusho and Tagruato? Also be
prepared to suspend some disbelief, but considering the movie is about
a monster destroying New York City, that shouldn't be too difficult.
<|_=00=_|>
I will admit, the marketing scheme behind this awfulness was clever. I
mean, I like a good thrill ride monster movie. The Creature From the
Black Lagoon piqued my curiosity as a youngster as I marveled at the
brilliance of trying to understand something that has no explanation.
However, it's hard to have this curiosity, no matter how intriguing the
monster is, when the script is so tired its in a coma.

Yes, the monster is cool. No, the stupid hand-held camera gimmick
didn't bother me. Yes, the special effects are great and at times I did
find myself in awe of the spectacle on the screen as it does seem real,
but the movie itself is so, so, so dumb. At any moment I felt
comfortable to leave to use the restroom as I knew exactly what I was
going to miss. The plot was a paint by numbers and I would have loved
even a touch of Bob Ross to fill the blanks, but no originality
whatsoever.

First they steal the overdone Hollywood bit about love. "Dude, if you
love her, tell her." Response: "I can't tell her, unless a mutant
alien/ocean creature tries to expunge the city, only then will I try
and make my move." Why have this? Why not make the story the monster?
Really, who cares about these characters? Who cares about Rob's job in
Japan? It's flimsy? Why have it? The beginning clearly leads on that
the camera is found, which means they all die. Standard operation of
introducing characters that we shouldn't care about.

Second, they decide to steal a scene from a much better monster movie
The Descent. "Let's try night vision on the camera." And this is in no
way as scary as the movie that did it better. The Descent works better
in every faction of story telling. It forces claustrophobia as it
whispers the insanity and the entire film works as a metaphor for
diving deep into the darkness of one's existence and summoning demons,
ones we can't see coming (which is why I think those monsters were
blind). Cloverfield does none of this. It's a, where can we run to
next? saga. A 'B' movie. A well shot 'B' movie. 

Third we have the comic relief one liner guy holding the camera. But in
true fashion of a bad movie, he's not funny, just annoying. A few
people in my viewing clapped when he was eaten. I love LOST. I think
it's the best show on TV, but the writer here has proved that being a
great psychological writer for the little screen does not translate to
comedy. Bad Robot productions should hire one guy with a sense of
humor. They may need him at some point. Hud's pinnacle of wit was
"That's terrible" when he gets a good shot of the monster. Followed
closely by, "That's terrible too" when we see when of its young-lings a
few seconds later. Brilliant... improv? I can only guess the script
consisted of locations and not so much dialogue since this boner had
most of the words in the movie, words that seemed spontaneously driven
from someone wait listed at community college. Horrible. I'm surprised
he didn't utter, "That's terrible cubed" before he was engorged upon.
Stupid, stupid, stupid.

Fourth, we have the killer/villain/monster has one last leap. Yes, we
knew the helicopter was going down since they find the camera in
Central Park. "We killed him" Hud proclaims, just before the monster
elevates and slaps the helicopter to the ground. This is scary, why?
Oh, it's not scary, and I find the idea of a thing like this really
existing more logical than any of those bozos surviving the crash in
the park. 

Fifth, they've stolen from every Stephen King novel ever, because King
should always have chapters taken out, and this movie should have been
an hour long. Do we really need to see them walk up 57 flights of
stairs and then back down and then bank up and then and then and then
and then.... yes we do. Otherwise they don't have enough for a feature
length movie. So trite and boring and not fascinating. Which is why the
gimmick of a hand held camera was needed. Otherwise, they may actually
need to give the characters some arc, have some purposeful shots of the
monster, maybe create a reason for what it is and why it's there and,
uh-oh, give it some originality. For anyone who thinks this movie is
original it is probably because you are under 24 and either naive to
creativity or just haven't seen any worthwhile movies. I wanted to like
this I did, I really did. It just wasn't good. I can respect it, as I
respect all movies that are made. It was well crafted and edited and
the effects were amazing, but so what? All movies now have great
effects. The Fantastic Four movies are not good, but their effects
rock. War of the Worlds was awful, but I thought those things really
came out of the ground. Effects and production don't make a movie. Not
anymore. T-2, Jurassic Park, Men in Black, those movies were pioneers
to FX being a character along with brilliant film-making. Now it is
expected. Since it is expected there, I expect more from the story.
This isn't it. If I were trapped in hell and I had a choice to watch
either Cloverfiled or One Miss Call over and over, I'd pick One Miss
Call. At least its badness is funny, which gives it some merit.
Cloverfield is just bad. Textook, trite, clich√©d, not smart, overdone,
not scary, bad. Not as bad as Mission Impossible 2, but pretty darn
close.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended an early screening 1/10/08 at Michigan State University.
I've spoilerized in case anyone doesn't want to know anything about the
film, but I will try to stay away from anything that'll be too overt.

Simply put, the film is an amazingly visceral experience. It's studio
logo, production logo, film. No credits whatsoever, which just adds to
the overall immediacy of it. If you've been following it to any degree
whatsoever, you know that it's shot entirely with hand-held cameras.
The characters also run. A lot. So immediately, I think this will be a
love hate experience. My own reaction to it was that it again, added to
the immersion, and I didn't find it to be really distracting at all.
Many people I saw it with said they couldn't even watch the screen at
times, so buyer beware. It also will anger those who need all the
details, and need to have every loose end tied up (or even a majority
of them). The entire film is the tape found after the events of the
film are over. That's it. There is no set up, and no
hold-your-hand-for-you resolution (or really, much of one at all). It's
unconventional, and I enjoyed the ending TREMENDOUSLY. I definitely
have to applaud the decision to not simply make a cookie cutter action
film that is easy to watch. I think it will be interesting to watch how
it does at the box office though.

After that...I feel like there isn't much that can be said about the
acting, and that should be a credit to it. It absolutely feels like you
are experiencing this with the characters, who feel more or less
exactly like real people. After leaving the theater I was on edge for a
good deal of time, as I tried to shake that level of immersion. The
film is also surprisingly humorous, and I would say that our crowd
laughed more than they screamed (although the screams were definitely
there).

Cloverfield definitely will not be everybody's cup of tea, but if
you're already excited about it, I have no doubt that you'll be
satisfied. It was a relatively unique experience, and again I want to
applaud the decision to make it in that manner.

Definitely recommended: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
... I do not believe that digital camera survived a nuke. I'm sorry,
there you go. That was the final nail in the coffin for this movie, it
just heaps one immersion-breaking sequence of events after another.

So, let's count off:

Cloverfield stops just short of carving 'all the characters in this
movie die!' into your forehead in the first 40 seconds of the movie,
making it impossible to feel any sort of emotional attachment to them?
Check.

Magically-appearing army which arrives roughly TEN MINUTES into the
monster attack despite the fact that one of the main bridges into
Manhattan was destroyed not thirty-seconds earlier? Check.

Monster can't be hurt by weapons? Check. This is forgivable, it's a
trope of all giant monster movies. Most make some attempt to explain
it... in Cloverfield, they just assume you'll go: "Oh, of course that
doesn't work. It IS a giant monster, after all."

Monster drops off little baby monsters (in this case, parasites) that
only serve to pad the movie and give the filmmakers an excuse to film
someone (literally) exploding off-camera with no explanation as to WHY
said character exploded because of the bite of a little monster? Check.

Exiting the subway into a conveniently-placed Army hospital? Check.

Baby monster bite that, while severe, doesn't slow down any of the
caste UNTIL the poorly telegraphed "I feel a little dizzy" followed by
the above-referenced character explosion? Check.

Skyscraper improbably leaning against another skyscraper without either
of them collapsing? Check.

Girl survives roughly six hours with a rebar spike through her shoulder
without bleeding to death... OK, this one's plausible. People have
survived weirder, and the rebar MIGHT have kept her from bleeding to
death.

Girl is capable of running not once, but twice, roughly ten minutes
after being REMOVED from said rebar? Without being slowed down because
of blood-loss, pain, nausea, or any other reason? Check.

Monster pulls a 'Dragonball Z' and gets back up despite lots of bombs
and a huge cloud of smoke? Check.

Helicopter crashes in central park, and only the three main characters
survive? Check.

Guy and his girl fiend wind up together at the end, complete with
useless and weepy Blair Witch "I'm scared, why is this happening to
me?!" dialog? Check.

Camera Footage survives a NUCLEAR ATTACK, despite the fact that a
nuke's EMP will still erase digital footage even if it IS protected by
a flimsy central park bridge? Check.

... and that's the whole movie. Seriously. Every scene contained
something needlessly immersion-breaking which, coupled with the
nausea-inducing camera-work made for a decidedly poor movie.

If given the choice of being bitten by one of the little monster-lice
from Cloverfield or watching the actual movie, I'd take being bitten.
At least then, you'll only feel sick for about half an hour.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I haven't had so much fun in a movie theater in such
a long time. Cloverfield brought back a sense of excitement and delight
for me.

The movie draws you in, makes you a part of the experience. It succeeds
primarily because of two things; what you see and what you hear.

The movie does not have a major actor stealing the screen. Everyone is
treaded just about equal. As the viewer you feel you are with the group
as you are seeing the movie from the first person view. You feel
connected to the characters as you understand that because of their
loss, they have to set something right and not escape from the city.
The movie draws you in and you feel like you are a part of the action.

There is no music. Ambient sounds such as creeks and thumps don't
distract you from looking at all the finer details. You stay focused on
what's important and constantly entertained.

One thing you must remember going into this movie. Remember the first
10 seconds of the movie (the stuff that comes right after the Star Trek
teaser). If you keep that in mind everything will make sense and make
the movie more pleasurable.
<|_=00=_|>
If you haven't heard by now Cloverfield is a film about a giant monster
attacking Manhattan all seen through the perspective of a
20-something's hand-held camera. The film has been hyped for months via
viral marketing, JJ Abrams fan boys, and media coverage/ monster
speculation. Did it live up to the hype? The answer is OH GOD YES
Cloverfield is by far the most intense monster film I have ever seen in
my lifetime, after the initial 15 minutes of character introduction and
whatnot the film does not go 5 minutes without a HOLY CRAP moment.
Constantly driving you to the edge of your seat at every turn and it
really pulls no punches, I was surprised to learn it was rated PG13.
Now the film is entirely filmed in shaky cam since you cant really
survive a monster attack pushing a trolley around and it just works,
you may get motion sickness though so be warned. The camera itself
becomes a character of the film as it IS the viewer making everything
happening on-screen more and more realistic. Now the acting is amateur
but thats for the best considering that the film would have made no
sense if they had used big name actors/actresses, the characters are
not that deep either and mostly serve as fodder, comic relief, moral
guidance, panic, commentary, puzzlement, a little bit of annoyance, in
other words they're people surviving a monster attack. The presentation
is brilliant, the only music heard is in the party and at the ending
credits and the special effects are some of the most seamless stuff
you'll ever see in a film. The monster itself is actually not seen in
its entirety only being viewed from different angles for the audience
to piece it together as the survivors themselves are, you pretty much
know as much as they do about everything going on making you actually
feel like you're there. Critics compare the film to Blair Witch meets
Godzilla but it is so much more than that, Cloverfield is the
definitive American Monster Film, best if seen on the opening weekend
just to hear the audience's reactions not to mention the presentation
is far greater on the big screen, watch it again to see the things you
missed or just to enjoy the ride again, admittedly the shock value will
wane with multiple viewings but for what it's worth Cloverfield is an
excellent piece of film and special effect engineering and is the first
great monster film of the millennium. Its also downright scary at
parts. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
There was so much hype for this movie that you didn't need to know what
it was about to see it. I'm sure many viewers this weekend are going to
not know anything about the movie, just know that it's called
Cloverfield and it was produced by JJ Abrams. I would think the movie
wouldn't be as enthralling for someone who doesn't know much about it
compared to someone who has been following message board posts for
months, but I don't think it should matter.

So, let's begin. Cloverfield. The general plot of the movie is a
home-made movie about a mans going away party that turns into a first
person action thriller about a "monster" terrorizing the city. Well,
I'm intrigued. I have been waiting for this movie for awhile since
nothing exciting has come out recently. Everyone talking about the
movie only made it more anticipated, so going into it I had high
expectations. To be completely honest, I am satisfied. Shocked?
Cloverfield is a movie like nothing I've seen before. I am sure this
movie is based upon a few other films, but I haven't seen them. First
of all, no it is not Godzilla. Second, I didn't get a chance to see
Blair Witch Project so the first person thing was new to me. I know, I
know. This however is what Made this movie what it is. It made you feel
like you were in the action, on the streets running in fear alongside
the citizens. It was freakin' sweet.

The action was intense, I expected nothing less from JJ. Once the movie
got into motion with the city "earthquake" everything from then on was
thrilling. I sat in the seat shaking in anticipation like I was sitting
outside in the 20 degree weather; butterflies in my stomach for more
than half the film. Awesome. The other part that was great was the
sound and sights. It really felt like you were standing next to the
soldiers shooting at the monster. And last but not least, the comedy...
no seriously. There were many funny parts thanks to the cameraman. "Oh
My God, you know Superman too? Geez I'm feeling a connection... have
you heard of Garfield?". Classic.

Overall a solid, solid 9. Maybe a little high, but I thought the movie
was amazing whether or not the ending was satisfying. No, I'm not
telling you how it ends! To me, it was good though because it ended the
film on a good note... yet kept the suspense and questions flowing.
Also, no monster tips from me... I want you to be awaiting "its" face.
Very good work, except on the title... what does Cloverfield have to do
with it?

90 minute flick, so why not. Action/Thriller fans will love it; so go
see it!
<|_=00=_|>
Hey, have ten bucks and two hours of your life to blow? Why not try
Cloverfield! If you like motion-sickness inducing, hand-held, close-up,
can't-focus-on-anything movies (a.k.a., anything by Michael Bay) then
this is a movie for you and your six second attention span! Wait ...
what was I saying? Oh yeah, there's this thing that runs rampant on
Manhattan. No one knows what the hell it is, it's just there. In the
meantime all of the monster crap interrupts a very special episode of
Dawson's Creek, you know, the one where Dawson's going to leave for
Japan and he finds out at the party that Joey's been sleeping around on
him? Alright, now picture that, filmed with your dad's handycam in the
middle of a Godzilla movie. It's a big sh!te sandwich coupled on either
side by two slices of moldy bread. That's how fresh and satisfying of a
movie this is.

But hey, on the bright side, everyone died and that made me smile.

It's a big-budget C-movie, and while that may sound like something
entertaining to fans of shlock films, trust me when I tell you that
it's not. Give me Godzilla vs. Mothra any day over this steaming pile.
At least those movies have heart.
<|_=00=_|>
So, I went to a 5PM showing of Cloverfield today. It was pretty good. I
found the characters to be very human and developed quite nicely over
the course of the story. The special effects were excellent, with quite
a few "oh $#!@" moments.

Be warned: If Blair Witch Project made you nauseous, then I don't
recommend Cloverfield. The *entire* movie is filmed in the "handy-cam"
style of the trailer - but in my opinion, it works better here than in
Blair Witch. It helped draw you into the movie and make you feel like
you were in it, and it made the CGI more convincing.

Very intense film.
