
Well what can i say. I'm a guy i don't cry about movies i know its fake
but i gotta say this one caught me by surprise even tho id watched the
trailer and read a few reviews already. by the end of the movie i was
in tears absolutely broken down crying my eyes out. and saying that i
probably haven't shed a tear in about 8 years for anything but i love
dogs and this is the most amazing story I've ever seen this is probably
the best movie I've seen in about 10 years and i have seen almost
everything.

as u can prob tell i would advise everyone to see this and stop and
think for a moment if we all cared for each other like we know we
should like this movie teaches us wouldn't the world be a better place?
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not at all an emotional person,but this movie really touched me,i
couldn't even stop crying after 15 minutes from the final.I just sat on
my armchair,and started to cry. This movie,teaches us first of all
about love,there is no power bigger than love,nothing compares to this
strong feeling. I'm really objective when it comes about movies,and
honestly no one till now,have cut me as deep. It's surprising...but
true,that everything in this world,is ruled by love,and if you thought
that only humans are aware of this,you did wrong. I liked the
performance,i loved the music(it was so so calm)

So glad to see this film,and i truly recommend it for everyone,i'm
really sure you will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie today, and I'm so glad I did.

It is based on a true story and it's only natural that the movie is
great because the real story itself is very touching. One of the things
that sets this movie apart from the other movies that involve animals
is how they stuck to reality instead of throwing in some
a-little-hard-to-believe elements here and there just to make it more
entertaining.

Sometimes they show things through Hachi's eyes as opposed to human
eyes, which helps you relate to him and understand how he felt and what
he thought then, as well as emphasizes that Hachi is the main character
of the movie.

This is not just a kids' movie. In the end everyone including myself
was crying because we were so moved. It is a must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I just came back from seeing this in Shinjuku earlier and I can
honestly say that I have NEVER seen so many people crying at the end of
a movie.... it really is a sad story.

However, it's also a heartwarming tale of loyalty, about how people and
dogs are more than just friends and, I guess most of all, about how a
dog's love for its master never fades - even after his/her death!

Richard Gere was fantastic in this movie, he bonded really well with
the dog and it never felt like watching an actor at all - it genuinely
seemed to be a movie with his own dog! 

I highly recommend this to people of all ages. There are enough bits to
laugh at (seeing Richard Gere teaching his dog to play 'fetch' was
brilliant!) and the story is portrayed really well (even if there were
some changes made to the original Japanese tale)
<|_=00=_|>
Knowing the real-life story behind it, Hachiko: A Dog's Story (2009)
has been made in a sort of staged documentary style, similar to the
kind of movies often seen on documentary channels (e.g. NatGeo),
however without a narrator so common in documentaries, and including
well-known actors (Richard Gere, Sarah Roemer and Joan Allen), making
it more suitable for theatrical distribution.

Before my last year's visit to Tokyo I've been unaware of the true-life
story this movie is based upon. In time an occasion came up to meet a
friend in Shibuya city, contemporary center of Tokyo's youth culture
(shopping, fashion, nightlife...), and that's how I've learned about
the popular local meeting point for all Tokyoites, the Hachik≈ç Akita
dog statue just outside of Shibuya Train Station, but the real story
behind it has been still eluding me ever since. After seeing this
movie, and some additional research on the web, all pieces have fallen
into place.

In retelling the story of common bonding between the dog and its owner,
so usual that it comes so natural, film is moving at slow pace,
following events of an ordinary life, though not without occasional
comedic and dramatic overtones. Even past the dramatic highpoint, when
common acts of affection and loyalty evolve towards such an unheard-of
faithfulness and ultimate devotion, pace of the storytelling does not
change, relying primarily on fine details and emotional build-up. Of
course, this might not attract everybody, providing that majority of
movie audience today is highly dependent on fast paced, action packed
scenes, getting thrills from 3D CG stylized ambiance and suspense, high
volume amplitudes and aggressive, often rude highlights of any other
nature. However, for those who can do without it, and keep alive their
interest even in a simple story, who won't shy away from emotional
involvement (as if this can be controlled), they shall easily find
themselves consumed by its mere beauty and warmth. Usual
man's-best-friend story, spiced with an intriguing yet inspiring
detail, shall leave you a bit sad, inevitably pensive, but ultimately
delighted. Even more so after the reading of the real-life epilogue.
<|_=00=_|>
Hachi is a movie based on the true story about a dog in Japan, Hachiko,
who would wait at the train station every day for his owner to arrive
even after the owner passed away.

I have never seen the original Japanese version of the movie but know
the story well as I have been told by many people here in Japan. There
is a statue of Hachiko that stands outside of Shibuya Station in Tokyo.
Now the statue is the most popular place for Tokyoites to meet their
friends before going out shopping or dining in Shibuya.

Unlike other Japanese remakes, this movie actually gives credit to the
original story so that you don't get the sense that Hollywood wants to
call it its own. All actors/actresses in the movie do a superb job in
making you feel as if you were a part of the community embracing the
dog. Compared to the original story, people were more accepting of
Hachi rather than considering him a nuisance. Of course this is going
to be released in the U.S. as a holiday movie so the goal is to make it
uplifting.

Just a warning, do take many tissues. I am a grown man and can honestly
say that I have never really cried during a movie. I think the score of
the movie plus the dog being so adorable made me lose myself. When I
looked around the theater though, every single person was crying and I
saw a lot of red eyes as I left the Men's restroom. Any movie that can
make me do that deserves a 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally a film without explosions, computer graphics, and violence. A
family film with a message. Adults will relate to the story of
life-long friendship and loyalty. Children will love the "dog story" A
tender story will huge box office potential. The possible "sleeper hit"
of the holidays. Pet lovers everywhere will relate to this film and
will leave theaters in tears. A weepy, wonderful film about the bond
that develops between one man and a dog after a chance meeting at a
train station. Bring extra tissues! Based on a true story, this film
was shot mostly in Woonsocket, Rhode Island at a historic old train
station. Beautifully shot and edited. The film runs less than 2-hours.
The film generally adheres to the actual true story of a dog in Japan.
The dog became a national treasure and a monument was erected to honor
him.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally a film from the USA (albeit based on a true story in the 1920s
Japan) that is without guns, explosions and free of violence and not
based at all on romantic elements!

"Love and Loyalty" succinctly sums up the film. The love so simple, so
pure and the loyalty so unfailing, so steadfast that it would melt any
steel heart. I was so embarrassed that as soon as the film came to the
end I dashed straight into the loo only to see my eyes sore red (!!)

The main characters never "take flight" but that matters not at all.
It's the simple story of the love between a man and his best friend
that more than sufficiently works all the wonders. Not a sad one, but
profoundly touching, So touching that even a tough guy like me couldn't
possibly hold his tears.

Hachiko, the Akita dog, has set the Yardstick of loyalty under which
all loyalty among us human beings are to be measured. Loyalty that is
truly monumental. Loyalty that is to be surpassed only by God Himself.

A must-watch film, especially for all dog lovers. Highly recommended
for all families and people of all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
Its really hard to articulate when you have so much to write and so
little words to express. And even lesser words which could actually
help you convey what you want to say. The closest word which comes to
my mind in this case is 'stupendous'.

Hachiko is a true story about a dog in Japan and the special bond he
shared with a professor whom he met when it was a little puppy. The
story has been put forward exceptionally well by the cast and the
director.

The movie has been kept extremely simple with minimum effort on the
scenes, yet remarkably you are kept spellbound after a couple of
minutes into the movie. And as the other reviews suggest, making the
whole theater grab onto their tissues explains how good it really is.

Lastly, coming for someone who also rates 'Eight below' as one of his
favorite's, a high rating of Hachiko would seem a little biased to
many. But in my honest opinion I don't think that anybody who has
watched this movie can rate it below 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie while traveling in Belarus it brought me to my knees
this was a show of the ages and without question a Richard Gere classic
and performance of a lifetime this show will be Seen for Years and
lifetimes to come I have been back in the U.S. for 2 weeks now and tell
everyone about it I think of it many times a day it was yes----that
good this is a movie You will never ever forget or get it out of your
mind and heart will see it again when it opens in the US in December
you may think this is a over statement but when you leave the theater
it will be a known fact you will remember this show for ever it was and
is a classic forever and a true story to boot...... wow.
