
Now the way I'm reading all these comments on IMDb, people are acting
like this was absolutely the worst movie of all time. Honestly, I love
you Beth Cooper is not going to be one of those high school movie
classics by no mean, but I didn't feel like my time was wasted watching
it. As predictable and silly as it was, I still think this was a decent
enough movie that got a few good laughs. I mean, who hasn't wanted to
go all out on their high school class and just mock them on the last
day of school? Not to mention get the hottie of their dreams in the
same night that has them just living life to it's fullest. I think that
over all the film worked, there were certain things that were flawed in
the movie like the script could have used a few touch up's here and
there and the cast did seem a little off. Paul Rust, it's kind of
disturbing that he not only looks but is 28 years old and then you have
Hayden Panettiere who looks 12 years old, it was a little well, you
get the idea. But still I think I love you Beth Cooper had it's moments
enough to make you just sit back and forget reality for 95 minutes.

When a geeky high-school valedictorian throws caution to the wind by
expressing his love for a popular cheerleader during his graduation
speech, life finally starts to get interfering for Denis Cooverman who
may have brains to spare; it's guts that he lacks, or at least, he did
until today. Stepping up to the podium to deliver an inspirational
speech to his graduating class, Denis decides that the time has finally
come to call out his classmates on their peccadilloes and declare his
love for the prettiest girl in school, Beth Cooper. Much to Denis'
surprise, Beth responds by accepting an invitation to a party at his
house later that day. But Beth's meat head boyfriend Kevin is
none-too-pleased that his high school prize is mingling with the
biggest dweeb in school, and when Kevin shows up at his house and tears
the place apart in a fit of rage Denis, his best friend Rich, Beth, and
her friends Cammy and Treece all pile into Beth's car and flee for
their lives. For four long years Denis sat silently behind Beth in
class, pining for a way to make his love known. Now, over the course of
one long night, Denis will finally get to know the girl of his dreams
better than he ever thought possible. If he manages to survive until
morning, it's sure to be the story of a lifetime.

There were times that I absolutely laughed out loud like when Beth's
psycho boyfriend kept going after Denis and just beating the heck out
of him each time. Also seeing how Denis was reacting to all of Beth's
"flaws" as a law breaking crazy party girl that he never imagined, only
the sick fantasy as he has her picture blown up and taped over his bed.
I think just the cast, the script and the characters needed work in
order for this to be a great movie and that's why everyone is freaking
out and saying how this is the most horrendous movie ever, either that
or they're taking it too seriously. I think if you just let go and have
a good time, you'll get a few laughs out of this movie, it's all in
good fun and sometimes we need those silly high school flicks to either
fantasize or bring us back to the good old days where getting a pimple
at prom seems to be your scariest problem in the world. I love you Beth
Cooper is worth the watch but more so wait for the rental vs. theater,
it's just an average teen comedy.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing a trailer that seemed to have promise I was rather
surprised at how much this film lacked any laughs. This fault lies with
the directing and editing. The actors seemed to give performances up to
that of any other teen comedy, but the timing of the whole movie was
off.....and in comedy, timing is everything! The fact that the story
has little character set-up and uses every cliché stolen from numerous
comedies before it does not help the ill paced scenes.

I managed to leave the theater without requesting my money back, but
you know when people in the audience are having full conversations
during a film, it is hardly holding anyone's attention.

Pass at the B.O. and only rent it on DVD if you have an unlimited plan
and are running out of things to see.
<|_=00=_|>
Come on, this is a high school comedy the way they used to do them back
in the '80s! This is not John Hughes territory, as you might be led to
believe upon seeing "Home Alone" director Chris Columbus at the helm.
No, this is another breed of '80s comedy. This is more "Three O'Clock
High" than "Ferris Bueller's Day Off," which is not necessarily a bad
thing, depending on your taste. The humor here is broad and
unsophisticated, for the most part, but fits with the brisk pacing and
sunny tone of the film. This movie invites you to have a good time
along with the cast. It throws you in the middle of a heightened
reality/unlikely scenario (most geeks do not suddenly grow a pair and
profess their love for the hottest girl in school during their
valedictorian speech) and beckons you to simply enjoy the ride. While
the films of John Hughes endeavor to depict a realistic panoramic view
into the teenage mind, taking stereotypes and turning them inside out,
this film, and its grandaddy "Three O'Clock High" do not carry such
aspirations. They are fantasy, pure and true, and are all about having
a good time. If the characters are two dimensional, so what? If the
plot is threadbare, so what? Character development and story arc are
not reasons to see a movie like "I Love You Beth Cooper." This is just
a classic homespun yarn, taking place in Anywhere, USA, about a geek
who outsmarts a bully and gets the girl. If you expected more, you're
going to be disappointed. This is the kind of movie that could work
just as well as a cartoon. It's a zippy, predictable ride from point A
to point B, but the journey is not lacking in entertainment value. If
you, like me, are a fan of "Three O'Clock High" and on many-a-day would
watch it over "Bueller," then you're in for a treat because this is
practically a remake albeit with the addition of a love interest.
<|_=00=_|>
In your typical teen comedy there comes the standard, "we must lose our
virginity" and "gross-out" scenes and lots of pop culture references.
In I Love You Beth Cooper, there is none of that. It's a real love
story laced with some funny things to say.

Denis (Paul Rust) gives a final speech as he graduates and proclaims
his love for Beth Cooper (Hayden Panettiere) while doing so. He also
has some fun by telling the entire class about some of the other flawed
students. To his surprise, Beth and her two friends, are the only
people, aside from his friend Rich, who come to his party.

I liked this movie for a lot of reasons, but most of all because it
wasn't like American Pie, Superbad, or Road Trip. It had some heart to
it and it wasn't just a bunch of teen comedies with a bunch of nudity
and sex. I loved the fact that Hayden Panettiere was the main role and
how she was the fantasy girl that every guy dreams of being with, but
still a down-to-Earth girl.

There's tons of jokes, that aren't idiotic. There's a lot of fun and
changing of scenes in this movie and a lot of romantic moments as well.
I think the movie would be amazing if it had some sort of moral or real
ending. I'll let you figure out what I mean by that. But I don't think
the ending is satisfying.

It's an entertaining film, and if you're in the dawn of graduating or
have just you'll probably love it. If you're a couple years shy of
graduating you may not relate as much. I think I liked it even more
because I graduated recently.
<|_=00=_|>
Thumb through a video store catalog, and there are a dime a dozen of
many teen comedies out there that you'll be hard pressed to find
something that either didn't deal with hard partying, road trips, one
crazy night of post-graduation party, self-discovery, friendship and
the likes. In fact, I Love You, Beth Cooper, has almost all those
cliché moments filled with stereotypical characters, but under the
direction of Chris Columbus, this story by Larry Doyle actually came
across in quite enjoyable terms, thanks to what I thought made the
movie  a line that was uttered upon stark realization, and the fear as
expressed by the titular character, which made it quite distinct and
standing out amongst the competition.

But first, the crazy premise that became the catalyst of everything
laid out in the film. Imagine if you're nursing a huge crush on the
school flower and have absolutely no guts to go introduce yourself to
her. On what's effectively the last day of school, as valedictorian,
you seize the opportunity to express your feelings toward her, as
suggested by your best friend, lest you allow not doing so become the
largest regret of your life. You buy the idea, and declare your love
(yes, even if you have no iota of that person's character at all) to
her in front of the entire school and witnessed by teachers, peers and
parents, while at the same time, insulting your enemies. So on one
hand, you crafted some mindshare into the object of your desire, and on
the other, you've made a slew of enemies ever ready to bay for your
blood.

So it becomes one crazy night for Denis Cooverman (Paul Rust) and his
best friend Rich (Jack Carpenter) who has to battle his school
reputation of being gay, while getting acquainted with Beth (Hayden
Panettiere) and her posse Cammy (Lauren London) and Treece (Lauren
Storm) when they turn up for his un-happening graduation party, before
proceeding to show him and Rich what could possibly be the wildest
night of their lives, especially for the nerds. It might seem like the
usual revenge of the nerds styled comedy with its set pieces, but it is
not about getting the girl and riding into the sunset, or about getting
laid as most teen comedies seem to be obsessed with these days. In
fact, it's more about surviving through the night, given the determined
pursuit of a psychotic, buffed up boyfriend (Shawn Roberts) high on
drugs, while getting to know one another.

While Larry Doyle had fueled the story with plenty of stereotypes, such
as the rich proud bitch, the lead cheerleader who's all sugar and
spice, the military-jock boyfriend of hers, the nerds, the bimbo posse
etc, what he managed to do as the film progressed, is to smash those
stereotypes away, well most of them anyway. What was ace in the film,
were the key characters who you'd probably identify with amongst
yourself or your peers. Paul Rust brought out the everyday average
brainy teenager without being too whiny or irritate the heck out of
you, and you'd find yourself rooting for him despite the many
loser-type situations his Denis got himself into. Panettiere would be
familiar to fans of TV series Heroes, and her cheerleader is sans
powers except that her Beth drives her car like a maniac and managed to
stay alive at such throwaway recklessness. And the character which I
thought was the icing on the cake, was Jack Carpenter's Rich as the
movie buff spouting and enacting countless of movie dialogue and
references, while reliving a classic movie moment from Robin Hood.

But all those aside in a story that unravelled itself in one night. Two
aspects of the film made it a winner for me. The first was when Denis
uttered "You're not Beth Cooper". That hit like a sledgehammer because
it represented so succinctly the kind of affection that Denis had for
his crush - based on a very superficial exterior, without any inkling
of who the person exactly is, which of course sets up plenty of
pitfalls as that exterior got stripped away every moment he spent those
crazy times with her. That perfect being sprung from his unilateral
imagination is far, very far from the real thing.

The second is when Beth expressed her fear of the unknown, which is
something that really brought out the sincerity of the character. Her
shenanigans for the entire night got addressed, and did allow Beth to
be a tragic character of sorts, knowing her place in this
materialistic, pragmatic world where her "talent" or lack thereof, sent
shivers down her spine knowing that her crazy-cool persona could no
longer hold water once outside the confines of the high school
community.

These are precisely the moments that sold, and I was indeed surprised
since what I was in for, was one of those mediocre run off the mill
teen movies. Larry Doyle's story had a lot more undercurrents going for
it than many would have liked to believe, and Chris Columbus, through a
no-frills style, had delivered just that, allowing one to find balance
in being entertained, as well as having some takeaways for further
mulling over.
<|_=00=_|>
"Recycle" is generally a good word, one with positive and favorable
connotations. But not in the world of movies. I Love You, Beth Cooper
is one of those films that horrendously overuses the ideas (and not
even the better ones) of previous entries in the teen comedy genre,
resulting in an exercise in repetition and failed mimicry. Awkwardly
personal advice from a father figure, aggressive small animals, nude
scenes without any real nudity, and the all-too-familiar plot line of
the bashful introvert chasing after the most popular girl in school are
just a few of the rehashed concepts found throughout the picture. There
are really only two reasons the film gets a score of two - and both
belong to Hayden Panattierre.

During the graduation ceremony at Buffalo Glenn High School, bumbling,
socially-challenged valedictorian Denis Cooverman (Paul Rust) professes
his love for popular head cheerleader Beth Cooper (Hayden Panattiere),
as well as insulting his fellow classmates and embarrassing his best
friend Rich (Jack Carpenter). While the ill-conceived words toward his
peers subsequently cause trouble, his honest confession appears to
strike a chord with the idolized teen beauty. Much to Denis' surprise,
Beth shows up at his house and a wild night of raucous adventure ensues
- one filled with incessant partying, reckless driving, and Beth's
maniacally jealous military boyfriend.

It's mildly amusing when the film starts with a rousing rendition of a
song entitled "Forget Me" at a high school graduation. Following is a
food-for-thought speech comprised of awkward prattling that struggles
painfully for even the faintest hope of a smirk. But it doesn't get as
much as a smile. As each second ticks away, the jokes get more stale,
the slapstick more pathetic, and the plot more unbelievable. It's not
that the story is hard to imagine - but it is difficult to understand
why the cast and crew of I Love You, Beth Cooper ever thought this
unimaginably pointless, hopelessly generic mess could pass as
entertainment.

It's very tame, excruciatingly PG-13 and terribly immature - which
means teens won't see it and neither will adults. Denis discusses with
his father that the teenage coming-of-age subject is not a new idea; if
only director Chris Columbus had taken that advice and stayed away from
Larry Doyle's vastly unoriginal novel. The presentation is bland, the
dialogue is weak and not a single memorable or creative concept is
introduced during the entire film. It's as amateurish as the socially
inept geeks lumpishly trying to court prom queens. Quite obviously an
excuse to put Hayden Panettiere in a movie, the sheer lack of humor is
the biggest disappointment, while the constant references to other
films by Rich is an embarrassment to decent movies everywhere. Even the
most pitiful have a worthwhile minute, but aside from being the first
film in which Hayden bares a partial breast, I Love You Beth Cooper has
not a single satisfying scene. When the film culminates in an all-guy
wet towel fight, Beth Cooper herself sums it up best: "Who said it's
supposed to be fun?" - The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
The new comedy, I Love You Beth Cooper stars Paul Rust as Dennis, a
nerd, who at graduation simultaneously insults everyone who's harmed
him, and tells Beth Cooper (Hayden Pannetiere) that he loves her. This
was suggested by his closeted gay friend, Rich (Jack Carpenter). Rich
is a character in extremely terrible taste, although he has the only
funny part where his character has been training to hurt someone with a
wet towel. There is one part in which I had no decision but to
automatically hate it right then and there. The part is the fact that
Dennis tells a school bully he's so mean because he was probably
sexually abused as a kid. Later in the film, he admits he was sexually
abused. Director Chris Colombus makes it seem like you're supposed to
laugh at this kid when it's actually extremely depressing. I can't
believe director Chris Colombus, director of Home Alone 1 & 2, Only The
Lonely, and Adventures In Babysitting gave us this turd. I don't even
want to talk about this movie anymore. I hated, hated, hated this
movie. Skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Valendictorian Dennis Cooverman (Paul Rust) gives the craziest of all
graduation speech. First he proclaims "I love you, Beth Cooper". Beth
(Hayden Panettiere) is the hot popular cheerleader. That's before his
speech makes enemies. He even declares that his best friend Rich Munsch
(Jack Carpenter) is gay. He invites her to his graduation party. It's
only him and Rich but then surprisingly, Beth shows up with her
girlfriends Cammy (Lauren London) and Treece (Lauren Storm).

This movie really struggles with Paul Rust as the lead. He's a geeky
looking guy but not nearly adorable enough. He's quirky but not that
funny. The character really demands to be played by a faux-geek rather
a real nerd like Rust. Hayden Panettiere's character is not somebody on
a pedestal. She's a little bit complicated and that's a good thing. The
problem is that she's not the lead. Rust is the lead and he can't carry
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
To confess, I normally would not go and see a film like 'I love you,
Beth Cooper' but given the choice between Larry David's 'Whatever
Works', 'The Taking of Pelham 1, 2,3, or 'Cooper', I chose the latter
on a recent Jet Blue flight. While not as juvenile as 'Night at the
Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian' or unimaginative like the recent
'Get Smart' retread, 'Cooper' wins hands down as perhaps the least
charming comedy in the last decade.

'Cooper' begins as we're introduced to the film's protagonist, Denis
Cooverman, who, as the high school valedictorian, is called upon to
present the valedictory speech to his fellow graduates and friends and
family at the high school commencement. Cooverman manages to insult
most of the student body, including his best friend who he accuses of
being gay as well as admitting that he is a complete loser. He also
pathetically expresses his obsession with the film's love interest,
Beth Cooper, a sexy blonde whose I.Q. is probably close to Paris
Hilton.

The story has nothing to do with Cooverman getting out into the world
after high school but rather follows his misadventures (along with his
best friend, Jack T. Carpenter, who has a penchant for quoting favorite
movie lines) in the hours after their graduation. Surprisingly, Beth
and her two buddies show up at Denis's parents' house after he invites
them to a 'party' where he and Jack are the two lone hosts. Beth is
trying to get away from her coked-up boyfriend, Kevin, who apparently
is a member of the Armed Forces.

Denis and Jack do everything they can to convince the girls that they
are complete losers and one keeps wondering when they are going to turn
things around. Denis loses his first attempt to prove he isn't a wuss
when resident psychopath Kevin trashes his parents' home and almost
decapitates the valedictorian with a sword. Kevin, by the way, appears
to be a crude, unfunny combination of a 'roid induced military brat and
frat boy gone wild. There is little character development for any of
these non-entities, especially Kevin, who attempts to beat Denis up at
every turn since he is basically your classic stalker who cannot stand
the thought of anyone hanging out with his beautiful girlfriend.

Our hapless nerds flee Kevin and his thugs in a car driven by Beth and
the action turns to some lame escapades in the woods including Denis
and Beth being chased by a raccoon and Beth ramming Denis' parents' car
while his parents are in the middle of making love inside the vehicle.
At one point Jack points a rifle at Beth's friends and we wonder if
we're about to witness the inappropriate spectacle of someone getting
shot in the middle of a film that's supposed to be a comedy.

After Jack somehow fends off Kevin and company by hitting them in the
testicles with a wet towel, the boys somehow convince Beth and her
friends that they're not the complete losers the girls at first
perceived them to be. Jack manages to bed Beth's friends to prove he's
not gay but the lame joke is that the best he could accomplish was a
premature ejaculation. Denis gets 'serious' with Beth at dockside
blurting out that he no longer perceives her as a bimbo but rather a
'real person'. Beth of course falls for the crap and plants a sensual
kiss on Denis' lips. Somehow the film's scenarists tout this as a big
victory for their nerdy protagonist who is quite content to go no
further with the sexy Beth. Speaking of Beth, she loses points for
driving drunk all over town but the eyes of the creators of 'Cooper',
the Paris Hilton wannabe, is beyond reproach.

There's nothing wrong with writing a comedy about a
teenager-protagonist who is socially awkward. But when that protagonist
exhibits the same unpleasant traits (such as acting as a stalker) which
are attributed to the film's antagonist, little entertainment can
ensue.

For all those you disliked this film as intensely as I did, take heart
that according to Boxofficemojo.com, 'I love you, Beth Cooper' had a
production cost of $18 million and a total worldwide gross of $15
million. For once, the film-going public trusted their good instincts!
<|_=00=_|>
I Love You, Beth Cooper (2009): Dir: Chris Columbus / Cast: Hayden
Panettiere, Paul Rust, Jack T. Carpenter, Shawn Roberts, Lauren London:
Morbid teen comedy about infatuation. A nerdy valedictorian announces
his lust for Beth and what follows is an evening of reckless driving
and violent encounters with her much bigger ex-boyfriend. Predictable
trash as if anyone cares whether these two unite. Why is Chris Columbus
directing this? For a guy who brought us the first two Home Alone and
Harry Potter films as well as Mrs. Doubtfire and Rent this just seems
beneath his talent. The only benefit is the fact that he hasn't
directed a film of this nature before but did it have to be a teen
flick of this level of dread? He is far too talented for this. Hayden
Panettiere plays an irresponsible bimbo who shouldn't be driving. Beth
Cooper is basically eye candy with the personality of a can of hair
spray. Paul Rust overacts as her suitor in typical pursuit fashion.
Jack T. Carpenter plays his gay best friend who denies his sexuality.
Shawn Roberts plays the embarrassing ex-boyfriend. Lauren London and
Lauren Storm have the misfortune of playing Beth Cooper's airhead
friends. None of this is particularly thrilling and seems bent on
presenting mindless humour that is more irritating than funny. Bottom
line, if you love Beth Cooper, you may be too easy to please. Score: 2
/ 10
