
To be honest, i was really looking forward to see this movie, the
trailer itself was eye-candy and highly exaggerated.The story is as bad
as the actors' performance. Nicholas Cage is going a very , very bad
road, his lasts movies , ''season of the witch'' and ''drive angry''
were as thin and dreadful as this one. The action in this movie was
unjustified and plain crazy bad, the way ''Blaze'' was written, the
laughable dialogues and dumb facial expression of Cage didn't helped at
all. The 3D effect on this movie is overrated, everything is too much
and fake. Idris Elba was probably the only reason why i went to watch
this but even then his role was thin and futile, On the whole, it's
messy , funny and plain bad, i pray to god there is not a third one
<|_=00=_|>
I was real excited about a sequel to Ghost Rider. I liked the first
one. I was very disappointed. Everything is horrible about this movie.
The plot, the writing, the acting, and especially the special effects.
In the first move, the flaming skull was sharp, the bike was great, the
riders expressions were great. In this movie, the flaming bike looked
broken down, the skull wasn't sharp, and the jacket charred. The chain
never lit up on fire either. And the penance stare was different. He
didn't say look into my eyes or anything. Not to mention again that the
writing and the plot were garbage. Don't waste your money on this one.
3d can't help this stink pot. Wait for cable.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I'm a Nic Cage fanboy. Let's get that out of the way. I'll watch
anything the guy does no matter how terrible the reviews are, and
sometimes I'll be pleasantly surprised, as was the case with "Seeking
Justice", "Drive Angry", and "Kiss of Death". The guy has some hidden
gems in his career. Is Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance one of them?
Hell no.

The first Ghost Rider was campy and stupid, but it was a watchable
popcorn action movie and it had Eva Mendes (hence, watchable). Spirit
of Vengeance is just stupid. Everything about it is stupid. No part of
this movie is fleshed out and none of it is interesting. It throws you
right into the action with no exposition. It's just a bunch of things
happening on screen oozing with CGI to make up for the complete lack of
substance. You can tell this is the same guy that directed Crank: the
difference is that movie didn't need any substance because the premise
was so fun. This movie just pisses on Ghost Rider's origin (literally)
and expects you to enjoy watching sh*t blow up for the sake of sh*t
blowing up. The writing in this movie is especially horrendous; did
they hire a 10 year old to do the screenplay? It sure as hell seems
like it.

So you may be asking yourself, "why give it a 4/10 if it's so awful?"
Well, I'm a sucker for laughably bad movies and this definitely
qualifies. I mean, the dialogue alone tries to take itself seriously
but ends up providing really good unintentional laughs. But I'll be
fair, not all of this movie sucks.

Nicolas Cage is always enjoyable to watch. You can tell he's invested
in the role, and his dedication really holds this movie together. Idris
Elba is also in this movie for some reason and he's great in anything,
even if his character is completely throwaway. The other acting is
serviceable I guess. You can't really blame any actors here because
it's obvious the filmmakers wanted it to be a massive CGI-fest with
stupid dialogue to lead action sequence A to action sequence B. To
their credit, the CGI in this movie is pretty cool. Ghost Rider looks
badass, the visuals in the big set pieces are nice to look at, and if
you have no interest in the story you can definitely shut your brain
off and enjoy the insanity happening on screen. 

So in a nutshell, you don't need to see this movie. You really don't.
Not even the great Nicolas Cage is enough to hold this piece of trash
together. But if you're really stoned or just want to see cool sh*t on
screen for an hour and a half and there's literally nothing else to
watch, go ahead and knock yourself out with Ghost Rider: Spirit of
Vengeance. You may find a new B-movie comedy classic.
<|_=00=_|>
Having grown up with many of the comic book super heroes, I have been
delighted to see so many of them becoming movies now, and look forward
to each one. The whole Marvel series has been enjoyable for the most
part. Ghost Rider (both of them) have been total disappointments.

The first Ghost Rider was poor, so I figured this one could only go up.
Wow, was I wrong! The acting and plot in this one was SO poor, I was
ready to walk out within 10 minutes. I decided to be fair...maybe
things would improve. Well, I'll never get that hour and a half of my
life back again.

I've seen some pretty cheesy B movies before. They can even be fun But
I expect the quality of these to be so much more. It wasn't, and there
was nothing fun about it. This one will never reach the acclaim it
could have....it will fittingly go down in flames as nothing more than
a poorly done B movie.

I've seen better acting out of most middle school and high school
productions! Even the special affects were substandard for a movie of
this type.

Don't waste your time with this one. Don't even bother with buying a
DVD when they come out. Your money is worth more than seeing this movie
even once.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Ghost Rider was already a disappointment  compared to other
Marvel adaptations to the cinema, it was far under the average. Ghost
Rider: Spirit of Vengeance, however, is even worse. It didn't even look
like a big Hollywood production  the special effects and the action
sequences were sometimes absurd going to the ridiculous. It looked like
a low budget film  a poor visual with only one or two exciting scenes
- if I can call them exciting.

Then, there is the plot issue. Those 'blockbusters' are not supposed to
have a story with philosophical meanings as they are made aiming pure
entertainment, but this one actually didn't even have a story. It was
totally redundant, silly and cliché  actually kind of ambiguous
because the characters were not well explained or explored - things
seemed too much up in the air leading the audience to nowhere.

Nicolas Cage also didn't help at all as he was not convincing on what
he was doing. But, we can't put all the blame on him  the character
was already badly written by the screenwriters who didn't know how to
make him interesting. The Ghost Rider is not the conventional superhero
 he has an obscure personality. So, where is this aspect on the story?
Where is the true nature of the Marvel superheroes? In this film, there
isn't any.

What surprises me most is the fact that this film coasted $75 million
and no one knew how to make a good use of this big budget. It was a
total waste of money and time  not only for the audience, but for the
actors too. A superhero movie that promises more than it really has to
offer. If you didn't like the first film, you'll probably hate this
one.
<|_=00=_|>
Seems anyone can be a movie producer / director / screen writer these
days. One of the worst stories I've ever seen in a movie, crippled by
awful directing and poor acting even from Nicolas Cage, of whom I
happen to be a fan. The movie is a complete disaster from beginning to
end, failing to capture the spectator because of a weak storyline, bad
timing and management of tension and viewer expectations, and action
sequences that besides not having the impact the film maker wishes they
had, look pretentious and anti-climatic.

About the lines written for the characters, all I can say is: if *I*
was invited to work in this movie as an actor (and I'm not an actor by
any stretch of the imagination), I'd still be embarrassed to say them
and ashamed that other people would watch me doing it.

The fight scenes are not believable at all, seems like people are
waiting to be punched in the face, shot or whatever it is that's going
on at any given moment. The reasons given for the outcome of any
conflict in the movie seem like the ones a child would come up with
while playing with his little friends.

I went to see the movie in a 3D "XD" (Extreme Digital) movie theater
and even that didn't compensate enough how bad the movie is that I
wouldn't be anxious to get out by 3/4ths into watching it.

Now here's something I definitely don't get, how can Stan Lee let such
a horrible, horrible, horrible abomination like this thing be released
under the Marvel name?
<|_=00=_|>
The ghost rider has the potential to be one of the coolest and most
successful franchises today,Ghost rider is so iconic and so much can be
done with him,the problem is morons are making the films.

The film has several styles that never really gell,It tries humor but
fails,Halfway though the movie it literally starts making fun of
itself..and its not funny.I felt like they were saying haha we got your
money.

The over used Prophecy child theme,The fish eye 1970's lens used to
death and poor effect..the home computer cgi..

If you rent this one day in redbox you'll want your dollar back,If i
ever see the director I'll ask for my money back and shame him for
taking something that could be so cool and just dropping the ball,he
should be banned from making films for 2 years for this one.

I hope one day someone with imagination and talent takes on a ghost
rider film and finally does it justice.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the first Ghost Rider and collected comic books for years. I
say that to let the reader know that I am also a fan of comic book
movies normally and am not a stickler about a movie sticking to comic
book canon. My problems with this movie have nothing to do with it
being a comic book movie.

The special effects in the movie are very bad. I saw it in 2D since I
do not like 3D but I do not believe that makes a difference. The new
version of the burning skull is much worse than the original. Now,
there is tons of smoke most of the time and it is hard to see anything.
Like watching polar bears have a milk fight in a blizzard but in black
instead of white. The excess smoke and a skull that sometimes blazes
but often is just impossible to see in the smoke combine to remove some
of the "cool" factor of Ghost Rider. In addition, the motorcycle and
costume that were cool in the first one are gone. Replaced with a
motorcycle that is hard to see (hello smoke) most of the time and when
you can see it, it is basically an old motorcycle on fire. Not the
awesome chrome and blazes chopper you would expect. The outfit is old
leather that appears to be melting when you can see it through the
smoke. I suppose that would be fine if you are going for more of a
rotted zombie look but that is not Ghost Rider.

One of the main bad guys appears to be one of the ghost twins from the
Matrix films and is about as interesting although he does have a cool
power that the actor does a good job of appearing to enjoy. Sadly, he
is on the screen far too seldom and is far too often in GR's smoke.

Which brings me to the acting. Normally, I like Nicholas Cage but here
he is different. His face is chunkier and he has replaced acting with
turning his head sideways. Apparently, someone told him that instead of
snappy patter or doing cool things, he would appear so much more
menacing if he started just turning his head sideways. So he does it A
LOT! As GR, he barely talks except for a few very poor one liners that
are akin to Arnold's "I let him go" in Commando.

In case the poor acting, distracting special effects and poor story are
not enough, they also added annoying camera work. At times it has the
hand-held shaky method so wonderfully annoying and at other times the
director falls in love with closeups that add to confusion when you
want to see what is going on.

In the first Ghost Rider, he could throw fire, he could use a Pennance
(or Soul stare) Gaze. He could defy gravity with his awesome chopper.
He made quips and was a hero. They did away with all of that and
replaced it with....Nic Cage turning his head sideways. I know that he
does gaze at a bad guy but although some might claim that is the
Pennance Gaze, nothing seems to happen.

Finally, just in case all of the aforementioned was not enough, they
made sure to have lots of people talking with odd accents to help make
sure the mumbled dialog was harder to understand. An awful movie that I
have 2 stars only because of my respect for comic book movies in
general and I am glad someone tried to make a sequel. If only they
would give the rights back to Marvel and let us get a decent Ghost
Rider movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
The biggest problem of the first Ghost Rider movie is it doesn't have
enough riding, no action, and it focuses more to the romance between
Johnny Blaze and Roxanne. Which isn't really the main appeal. In this
film, it gets focused to the plot. Unfortunately, the story is weak and
the script has its awkwardness scattered. Thankfully, there's Nicolas
Cage who's spicing things up with his crazy insane performance. This is
probably one of his craziest performance since Bad Lieutenant. Also,
there's the Crank directors, Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor, using
their shaky camera and directing style. It fits to the film. Some
people may be disappointed but if you're in for some crazy Nicolas Cage
and some crazy action then you're going to enjoy this.

It doesn't look like a sequel though. The flashback of Johnny Blaze's
deal is different from the first movie. The only thing that stays here
is Nicolas Cage. Everything else is new. Well, the story is pretty
weak. The plot is little. The whole film is just chasing and protecting
a boy. But chasing is what's best in a Ghost Rider film. More riding
and less brooding. Though, there are some brooding but mostly is
riding. But stories are still important in films and that is the main
flaw of this. The script is awkward. With awkward dialogue and awkward
moments.

The best parts goes to Nicolas Cage. This may not be the same
performance from the first film but this new Blaze is more entertaining
and ridiculously hilarious. With more ridiculous is the directing. Mark
Neveldine and Brian Taylor uses a lot of their trademarks and gives
plenty of insanity in some scenes. There's a perfect chemistry between
their directing and Nicolas Cage's rage. Feels like it's one of the
trippiest films I have ever seen. The action is quite ridiculous. With
its well shot shaky camera and its non-stop booming. These things feels
right for this film. Yes, flaming awesome and disintegrating bad guys.
Do the most ridiculous things with the power.

Aside from Cage, Idris Elba and John Whitworth are both fun and
awesome. Ciarán Hinds is like Danny Houston. Even in the single glance,
you know he could be a dangerous bad guy. And here, he is a threatening
one. The CGI is obvious. The new skull design of Ghost Rider looks more
awesome than the first one. The camera is shaky but it's well shot and
made the action more exciting even in 2D.

Some people might get disappointed if they expect something bigger. But
the action is bigger but the plot is just little. The people who likes
Nicolas Cage and Neveldine/Taylor will enjoy this a lot. Or someone who
wants to see something ridiculously insane. It's hard to take this film
so seriously. It's just hilarious and fun. Let me say that it's a crazy
version of last year's Priest but with better action scenes and there's
a nut main hero than a bland one. It's short, it's dumb, but has its
enjoyment. There's an easy advice to watch this film: Watch it for
Nicolas Cage.
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance, 'Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance' seems like an
unnecessary sequel, another example of Hollywood mining old ideas and
slapping the 3D label on it for a higher ticket price.

When viewed in right 'spirit', GR:SOV is a bit of harmless fun, a
mindless superhero/action film where you can turn your brain off and
relax. It's a nice antidote to the slew of overly serious superhero
films.

Set in Eastern Europe, the plot is an unoriginal demon-possession story
(done far better in the Omen franchise), with young Danny (Fergus
Riordan) being chosen by Roarke (Cirian Hinds) to carry his evil
legacy. On the proviso that he's rid of his curse, Ghost Rider/Johnny
Blaze (Nic Cage) agrees to help Danny's mother Nadya (the absolutely
stunning Violante Placido) save her boy.

Probably the highlight of the film is Nic Cage, who unashamedly hams it
up. Sometimes it's fun to watch someone play a bad role with gusto and
no shame. That's exactly what Cage does, and you know he's having a
ball. More power to him.

This is complemented by some cool special effects, again they're
cheesy, but a film about a demoniacally possessed daredevil with a
flaming body and skull doesn't have to worry too much about realism. 

Yes, GR:SOV is a bad film compared to 'Iron Man', 'Thor' and 'Captain
America', but its good fun and a bit of escapism. If you go into it
with the right attitude, you'll probably like it. Sometimes we need to
stop taking films so seriously and enjoy them as they were intended.
