
My girlfriend and I, both at or approaching our 50's, saw this in a
theater that was absolutely filled with high school girls. That
surprised me actually, given that most of the stars in this film are
well-beyond high-school age. But they, like the rest of the audience,
seemed to really enjoy this film, as did we. The relationships were
nicely intertwined without being contrived ("Crash" anyone?), and
unlike the similar movie "Love Actually," nothing portrayed was too
outlandish. The convention of adding comments by "real" people to
introduce story lines was well done and amusing. If I find any fault
with the film, it's that all of the guys are presented as having
relationship "issues" or as being total bone-heads. Hopefully there are
more "nice guys" interspersed in society than what this film might lead
you to believe (though I must say that the attitudes presented are
definitely not inaccurate).

Overall, a very nice film whose 2 hour plus running time goes by rather
quickly. If you've ever been in or tried to be in a relationship,
you'll probably enjoy this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A limp ensemble relationship movie that feels like the frustrated
venting of a bitter single girl after a blind date gone badly awry.

This is the kind of movie where a bunch of 20 and 30-somethings own
beautiful loft apartments they couldn't possibly afford and struggle
with relationship issues that are just boring to watch other people
grapple with if you yourself are over the age of 30. Once again we're
expected to accept Jennifer Aniston as a sad sack who can't get a date
after she dumps the long-time boyfriend (Ben Affleck, playing not so
much a character as a woman's fantasy made real) who won't commit to
marriage. Ginnifer Goodwin is the doormat who can't figure out why guys
won't call her even though they say they will. Justin Long is terribly
miscast as a womanizer who doesn't know when he's fallen in love
himself (I can't look at him without seeing the image of his dork from
"Dodgeball" getting hit in the face with a wrench, which is not far
from what I wanted to do to his character in this movie). Jennifer
Connelly and Bradley Cooper are the lone married couple in the film,
and because this is a Hollywood movie about relationships, of course
the married couple MUST be miserable. Scarlett Johanssen is a bombshell
with giant knockers that I couldn't take my eyes off of; Drew Barrymore
might as well not be in the movie, and only is because a.) she
co-produced it and b.) the filmmakers needed a forum in which to
introduce a bunch of stock gay characters. You want to throttle pretty
much everyone by the time the movie's over; I settled for thanking God
I didn't have to be friends with any of them.

Though the film was only written by two people, it has the feeling of
something written by committee. Characters aren't consistent or
believable; those played by Goodwin and Connelly more often than not
come across as mentally ill. In the world of this film, there are only
two kinds of marriages: the ones that end in adultery and bitterness,
or the ones that end in a ridiculously romanticized version of
happily-ever-after. No wonder so many people have trouble making
marriages work if they're using films like this as examples.

What a dud, and probably solid evidence that movies shouldn't be
adapted from smug and jokey self-help books written by jackass talk
show hosts.

Grade: C+
<|_=00=_|>
The film starts with a little girl in a playground getting bullied by a
boy, and her mother telling her that this means that the boy likes her,
setting up the premise that the more a guy treats a woman like dirt,
the more she'll hang around on the phone waiting for his call. From
this point we follow the relationship woes of six (no eight, nine, is
it ten?) different people and their relationships ups and downs, as one
guy is trapped in a loveless marriage, one couple realise they want
different things and one woman who is trying to figure out how to play
the dating game, the stories cross and intertwine and from this comical
situations ensue.

Now, from the tone of the last part of that sentence you may well have
come to the conclusion that this is just another standard romantic
comedy chick-flick, and, on paper, it should be. But it's not. The
script is very similar in tone and feel to "When Harry met Sally" with
"supposed" regular people introducing each chapter of the film, the
insights are decent and the dialogue contains a lot of honesty that I
think many people can relate to. The cast are all first rate with
special attention going to Ben Affleck, who has so needed a good role
in front of the camera for ages, and Jennifer Aniston as the couple who
can't move forward, also good are Bradley Cooper and Jennifer Connolly
in their respective roles. The big star turns for me though are
Ginnifer Goodwin and Justin Long as the hapless dater and the hapless
dating coach, who are really good. For Long it's another step up the
Hollywood ranks (pretty much the direction he's been heading since
"Dodgeball") and for Goodwin it is a star-making turn that should do
for her what "knocked-up" did for Heigl.

The film of course has a number of elements and outcomes that are
extremely predictable (it IS a romantic comedy) but there's enough
other stuff in there, and definite surprises at the end, to make it
more than just the sum of its parts. It's charming, clever and, when
viewed with a pantomime-style audience that I saw it with, a lot of
fun, and I'm a guy! A cross between "When Harry met Sally" and
"Friends" that doesn't try and jump on the gross-out comedy bandwagon.

Good stuff
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't have high expectations for this movie. I never read the book
HJNTIY (seemed pretty self explanatory by the title alone) and I wasn't
really sure how it could be made into a film, but I'll say I thoroughly
enjoyed myself.

That being said, this is a CHICK FLICK--not a date movie. So don't be
surprised by all the negative reviews written by guys--of course they
can't stand it, and I definitely wouldn't try dragging your boyfriend
to go see it for Valentine's Day...this is a movie you want to see with
the girls. I wasn't that interested in seeing it, but I was talked into
it and it was the perfect 2 hour distraction. The cast is fun to
watch--Jennifer Anniston, Ginnifer Goodwin, and Jennifer Connelly are
delightful on screen together, and I even take back all the bad things
I've said about Ben Affleck--I thought he was a perfect fit for this
movie.

It's also a very funny movie--I'm one of those people who love going to
a packed theater where everyone laughs on cue and claps at the end, and
this was one of those experiences. Some of the lines are priceless, and
a couple of the funniest scenes in the movie involve "street
interviews" à la Sex and the City Season 1. It's just an easy, fun,
entertaining film--just relax and enjoy yourself, and don't try to hold
this movie to a standard that it wasn't designed to meet. I'd go see it
in a packed theater if you can, otherwise wait for the DVD and have a
girls' night in!
<|_=00=_|>
It is rare for a Boy meets girl movie to please people now days. I mean
lets face it Harry Met Sally and Sleepless in Seattle set the bar so
high that anything else will pale in comparison.

But to me this movie kind of shows now modern relationships work or
don't work. If anything is a falter in this story it is that it trys to
hard to show too many stories. 

Sure there is X likes Y but Y likes Z but Z is married to A. Which is
always entertaining.

Then there is the Ben Affleck / Jeniffer Aniston couple that may sum up
most of the "couples" I know.

The whole mentioning of "new dating rules" is kind of cool to see that
cell phones, emails, myspace and speeddating have replaced and
re-written the rules for dating...and in some way made it harder not
easier. Some people says this movie is full of stereotypes. In my
opinion it covers just about all the realities in dating...especially
dating in fast paced big city life.

What I liked though is the movie balanced "The Bad Guy" with "Bad Girl"
Showing that there are breakups faulted by both sides. And there are
regretful feelings for both Women and Men.

I would say rent it, hopefully you are not watching it alone.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just come from this movie. When will I learn not to pay money to
see movies like this? When will directors learn that a good ensemble
movie is very hard to make? Where is Robert Altman when you need him? I
found it extremely hard to relate to or to find sympathy for the
characters. Some of their actions were so unbelievably stupid that I
just wanted to smack them. And what shallow lives they lived! Work,
bar-hopping and texting. Character development was equally shallow.
What epiphany did the Justin Long character undergo to realize that he
was really "into" the Ginnifer Goodwin character? One confused meeting
with the wait staff does not an epiphany make. The same goes for the
Jennifer Aniston character realizing what a catch Ben Affleck's
character was. So he washed some dishes. And why did he suddenly want
to marry her....Because she suddenly didn't want to??? I would have
thrown that engagement ring at his head. And what did the Jennifer
Connelly character ever see in that wishy-washy (although good-looking)
chump of a husband? The Scarlett Johansson character needed some
serious therapy for that self-involvement problem of hers (or maybe a
good slap upside the head). I guess the best thing about the movie is
that it has given me a forum to write just how lackluster it was. I
guess that will have to do.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of interconnected, Baltimore-based twenty- and
thirty-somethings navigate their various relationships from the shallow
end of the dating pool through the deep, murky waters of married life,
trying to read the signs of the opposite sex... and hoping to be the
exceptions to the "no-exceptions" rule.

Gigi just wants a man who says he'll calland doeswhile Alex advises
her to stop sitting by the phone. Beth wonders if she should call it
off after years of committed singlehood with her boyfriend, Neil, but
he doesn't think there's a single thing wrong with their unmarried
life. Janine's not sure if she can trust her husband, Ben, who can't
quite trust himself around Anna. Anna can't decide between the sexy
married guy, or her straightforward, no-sparks standby, Conor, who
can't get over the fact that he can't have her. And Mary, who's found
an entire network of loving, supportive men, just needs to find one
who's straight.

If you've ever sat by the phone wondering why he said he would call,
but didn't, or if you can't figure out why she doesn't want to sleep
with you anymore, or why your relationship just isn't going to the next
level... he (or she) is just not that into you. He's Just Not That Into
You 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Before I can even begin a criticism of the movie I have to ask: How can
woman enjoy, and support, this film? The movie portrays women has
whiny, desperate, and pathetic creatures who do nothing besides gossip
and give each other relationship pep talks. The scenes where Jennifer
Anniston, Jennifer Connelly, and Ginnifer Goodwin are in the office
where they are employed are perfect examples of this. Despite being
educated, professional women, instead of working, they spend all their
time discussing their relationships and consoling one another. As a
young adult male I can honestly say that this is the kind of portrayal
of women which makes men not take them seriously. The fact that women
support and like this movie only gives further credence to these
clearly prejudiced beliefs. So again how can women support a movie
which portrays them so poorly? It makes about as much sense to me as
Muslims supporting a movie about three young, college educated Arab men
who work in the same office and spend all of their time making bombs
and planning terrorist attacks. 

Now that that's out of the way, my major problem with the movie is that
it has easily the worst script ever committed to screen. There is not
an original bit of dialogue to be found anywhere. All of the characters
are completely generic and unoriginal. Ginnifer Goodwin plays the
crazily desperate woman, Jennifer Connelly is the woman who is cheated
on, Benn Affleck plays the man scared of commitment, and Kevin Connolly
plays the man chasing the woman who he will never get... I could go on,
but honestly, why bother? The only exception to this is Drew
Barrymore's character, which plays no important role in the movie at
all. It seems like she went to the producers after the movie was
already completed and said: "Hey I want to be in this movie, I'll pay
you fifty million dollars if you give me a part." They agreed, shot two
scenes where three multi-racial, stereotypical gay men give her dating
advice and pep talks, and one scene where she and Kevin Connolly fall
for each other completely out of the blue and for no other reason than
that every major character needed to be in a couple when the movie
ended. 

The other major flaw with the movie is that it is one of those rare
romantic comedies which manages to be completely and totally devoid of
humor. I only chuckled twice during the movie. Twice. In two hours. Two
chuckles, not even real laughs, just quiet chuckles. Two

Finally, it was obvious to me immediately after glancing at the DVD
case that the movie was going to be clever and totally original
combination of Sex and the City and Love Actually. I was right. To
conclude, the surest sign that this movie was awful is that my
girlfriend, who loved Sex and the City and Love Actually, fell asleep
for fifteen minutes during the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, as did the group of female friends I
attended it with. It was well-written, well-acted, and funny.

I think the reason some people, er, men, didn't like it was because it
portrays some men as lying cheats, others as terrified of intimacy, and
some as weirdos. In short, the basic variety any woman runs into on
Match.com. Then there were a couple of stand-up guy characters. Were
parts of the plot formulaic? Sure. It's a movie. There were a few
surprises, however.

All of the female characters were likable, which is a switch from
standard Hollywood sexism. The acting was above average and I was
pleasantly surprised by Scarlett Johannson's performance. I only didn't
like Ginnifer Goodwin's slapstick-style performance as a desperate
dater. A little subtlety would have made her character more poignant
and more believable.

The film really does contain a lot of good advice for people in the
dating scene, both men and women.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the trailers you get a feel for what sort of a movie this
is going to be. And the movie is exactly that - Nice romantic comedy.

I usually prefer to watch such movies only in TV or DVD but gave this a
try simply for the star cast - Scarlett, Jennifer Anniston and
Connelly, Drew Barrymore, Ben Affleck, Justin Long etc..But the person
who stole the show was Ginnifer Goodwin. She had a bubbly enthusiasm
about her character which made you root for her till the end.
Connelly's role looked very similar to her role in "Little Children"
Scarlet was OK. Barrymore's role was minuscule but her pun about
technology was humorous. And Anniston is finally looking her age :-(
The movie was just the right length. Mildly funny but mostly romantic.
All in all an excellent pop corn movie.
