
I saw this at the LDS Film Festival back in January 2008. It is a
powerful movie, both inspiring and funny! I took my 10 year old nephew
and he loved it, he wanted to see it again - and he doesn't sit still
for more than 10 minutes at at time, so that should tell you something!
I was touched by the message shared, and found myself examining my own
attitude toward others in life. The scenery was spectacular - really
added to the ambiance! The tone of this movie is not like the RM or
other movies that are LDS comedy, it has more of the tone of Other Side
of Heaven. Thank you Heidi Johnson & Christian Vuissa for sharing this
wonderful story with us!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was one of the best movies that I have seen. I really
enjoyed the story that was presented. The actors were also first-rate
and the cinematography was absolutely beautiful. Having lived in Europe
I really enjoyed seeing areas that I had been to. I also served as a
missionary in Europe so it was refreshing to see my experiences
portrayed on the big-screen. Also, an excellent choice to focus on
sister missionaries, as so many of the other missionary movies have
been focused on elders. I am really impressed that the entire cast and
crew could pull this off. Thumbs up to all associated with this
excellent production. I think that this movie will be a big success,
particularly in the LDS film market.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was extremely impressive to me, it brought back to me many
of the treasured feelings of serving a mission and the many trials and
tribulations often faced with that calling. The writers take you on a
glimpse of what a mission is from beginning to end. Really the only
flaw in this film, is the title track played in the middle of the film.
The sister missionaries remind me of many of the sisters I served with
and have known. The people seemed very genuine from my experiences and
the appointments were very viable. If you have never served a mission,
but wanted a first hand look at what a mission is truly like, this is
what you need to see. It is among the most frustrating work you will
ever do, but it is most likely the most rewarding time of your life. At
first I was leery about this film and was questioning seeing it, but I
am glad I did. My only criticism is one the title track, two the
slowness of some scenes and three, there was no three, that good. I
would recommend this film to anybody, member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints or not. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
As a former sister missionary, I found "Errand of Angels" to be
extremely validating. I loved the honest way the film addressed the
true highs and lows of sister missionary life. I found that it captured
the essence of what every sister experiences. I served in Argentina,
the film is set in Austria, and yet there are so many parallels that I
can draw between the two such as not getting along with a companion,
going on a splits with someone new and inspiring, finding your own
testimony, serving others, finding yourself in awkward discussion
moments, caring deeply about those you come in contact with, losing
investigators, being part of a conversion and baptism, and even eating
everything on your plate, both known and unknown. Aside from the candid
storyline, the the film was shot beautifully and creatively. Visually,
it's rich, colorful, and effectively highlights locations, while
quietly showcasing European scenery. The overall mood and feeling is
calm, peaceful, and spiritually centered. A perfect Sunday afternoon
movie. My fourteen year old daughter loves to watch this movie on
Sundays. She is looking forward to serving a mission when she is of age
and we discuss the way the film portrays a mission as a challenging yet
ultimately rewarding experience. I feel that it is important for young
sisters to realize that a mission isn't an exotic vacation but an
intense learning period full of personal trials to help you grow into
the person you can become. I believe that "Errand of Angels" depicts
that concept in a very heartfelt and humble way. I am grateful for a
film that substantiates the worth of dedicating eighteen months to the
Lord.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. Admittedly, I served a mission in Italy, so I could
relate. It was a realistic, feel good movie. No apologies, I will watch
it again, and feel just as great. Erin Chambers was delightful to
watch, the scenery was beautiful, and memories of my mission flooded
in. Tracting, street contacting, talking to people on the bus, being
stood up for appointments, and stuffing myself on food in the members
homes. I liked the journal motif, and I liked the writing and traveling
on the train. I will watch it again with my wife, and my daughter, and
tell stories of my mission, and smile. I am so far very impressed with
Christian Vuissa's work.
<|_=00=_|>
The boss sang it in 1992 and i experimented this fact during my west
coast  east coast this summer. I was in America for 23 days with a
different city, hotel room each day and for more than 3 weeks, my
zapping on cable TV was a lost time : an explosion of ads, limited
sport choices, silly programs about home, food, TV reality, sharks or
crimes, awful movies, stupid sitcoms, looping news, well, not an once
of creativity or culture

Except when i reached Salt Lake city and i discovered this movie on BYU
TV. 

This is just an amazing feature, totally out of time and deeply
engaging. In a way, it's close to « Hideous Kinky » as it's about a
young woman who travels abroad to fulfill her faith. I think that in a
way, I aspire myself to that alternative life so that's explain why
that kind of movies makes always a big impression on me. In all cases,
meeting this kind of girl who is driven by spiritual needs would be a
miracle as looks and money seems to be the only assets in relationships
today. Anyway, here, the « sister » is just amazing as her enthusiasm
and energy are contagious. Her experience is very well told with fun
and with wisdom. It's cool to see that they can joke about their
religion just because smile and laughs comes from their heart thus from
their creator ! It gives also a good lesson about tolerance and
compassion : loving your neighbors isn't only loving the ones who cares
about you but especially the ones who are difficult ! And as in « Signs
», you can understand that having faith is to never be alone and to
have a special connection with the creator ! At last, the director
frames with talent all the shoots and the songs are just great : « as
sisters in Zion », « silent night » ! In conclusion, if those angels
errand, they are also touched by grace as this movie really shines your
day now and after !
<|_=00=_|>
My family and I just recently went to the free previewing of this film,
and I was extremely impressed as was my family. We thoroughly enjoyed
every minute of it. It was touching to see how Sister Taylor, the main
character, overcame her struggles and was able to help so many people!
I would strongly recommend this film to anyone of any age, and I hope
many people will go to support this film when it is officially
released. We need to show Hollywood that films such as these are what
the people want, and that we are willing to support it so much that the
first day showing will be sold out. Please go and see this movie, and
tell as many as you can about it.
<|_=00=_|>
I really did try to watch this to the end but I had to give up after an
hour otherwise my shoe was going through the TV. The flimsy story us
about a your American girl on missionary trip to Austria. At first she
is partnered with a pleasant girl but things go downhill when the next
companion is a bit of an ogre. Maybe this film is enjoyable to deeply
religious people (see the other reviews) but to the rest is nothing
less than propaganda. There are some really cringe worthy moments when
the cast are attempting to convert the local populace. On the plus side
the scenery was beautiful and the production reasonable. Unless you
want to be brainwashed don't watch this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't think this was going to be watchable but surprisingly it is
mainly because you're not drowning in religious nonsense.

So watching around the religious bits its quite an appealing story.
Girl meets world. Would have been better if for instance it was about a
girl backpacking or couch-surfing though Europe without all the
references to god or something related. But all that religious stuff
can't be ignored. I was constantly feeling the urge to shake those
missionary sisters to try and wake them up. They seem to have good
intentions, I guess you could say they have their hart at the right
place but this isn't the way to do good. Trying to convince people
fictional stuff is real seems very mind controlling to me (have you
heard of those ridiculous Mormon/Bible/Coran... stories?). Rather use
those good intention for some real doing good like helping greenpeace
or something.

Something I noticed is that they were quite hesitant to use the word
Mormon throughout the first 3/4 of the movie. I wonder why? I didn't
even realize that it wasn't the regular Christian stuff one thinks of
when hearing the word missionary.

The acting throughout the movie was quite decent although it didn't
have much dept overall. One thing tough the lead character didn't seem
to get any better at German besides from understanding more. Her German
accent was horrible as well. No improvement whatsoever although she
says at one point that her German improved quite a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much but this really took the price. Aside from
beautiful town and landscape views this movie has nothing to offer
unless your a mormon in a religious crisis. 

This isn't some minor religious message á la Ben Hur, this was like
attending a mormon rally for two hours. The message is spread on so
thick, it leaves no food for thought as a viewer. The plot is
predictable and the characters aren't believable.

You would think that, in order to gather no sheep to the fold, the
clearly motivated filmmakers would actually make an effort to make this
story interesting, but after watching this movie if they didn't even
muster the creation to do that.
