
It's been awhile since Sandra Bullock has been able to immerse herself
in a role. It's wonderful to see her back on the screen. Her character
here is a political strategist who's flawed in ways that make her
appealing. No other actress does sarcasm and feisty in the same breath
as well as Bullock. Especially when she does it with a subtle nod to
humility. This is a movie which will not appeal to everyone because
it's about a political campaign and campaigns are the same whether in
the U.S. or in another country. Unless you appreciate the games played
in getting anyone elected this will feel labored. The entire cast is
excellent. Thornton and Bullock apparently are friends off-screen and
their scenes together aren't nearly enough as they are out for the same
result. One of the smarter movies I've seen this year.
<|_=00=_|>
There are numerous movies and TV series that are dealing with
elections. Most of them are focusing (obviously) in the electoral race
and their climax is the outcome of the election. Some of them though
have a stronger, more political message. A "morale" if you prefer...

"Our Brand Is Crisis" starts as a comedy but in its epilogue says some
hard truths about the world we are living.

Sandra Bullock stars as the depressed campaign manager who essentially
wants to beat her opposite colleague (a really thin Billy Bob Thornton)
with whom share a past both professionally and personally. She looks
really good, especially in the beginning of the film, before she
experiences "soroche" (Altitude sickness) in the heights of Bolivia.

The script is intelligent and has a few funny moments, but it is
obvious that the winning an electoral race isn't the main theme here.
It is what happens after that. How easily could manipulate people, who
hasn't realized that his vote it is not only his strongest power, it is
his only power.

Politicians have fake promises and lies into their blood stream. They
could tell and promise anything so they get elected and then forget
about it. You know it, I know it, everyone knows it, but still act and
vote without really thinking. "Our Brand Is Crisis" tries to remind
that to its audience.

Overall: A movie which easy to watch. Not a "big" movie. Has its
moments. Sandy looks good and there is a morale so to make you think
twice before you vote in the next elections...
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie.

I don't ask much to call a movie great. All it requires is a well-told
story, engaging performances, watchable images, appropriate soundtrack
and editing... that everyone do their jobs competently and it show me
something I have not seen before. So about one movie in thirty does it
and keeps me coming back to see the same old same old done again and
again. Most of those tend to be older movies, simply because after more
than a century of making movies, it's hard to find something new to say
to an audience. The great ones keep me looking and not learning Spanish
so I can read DON QUIXOTE in the original. This movie justifies my not
learning a new language.

There are many intelligent parts to the screenplay, which has serious
things to say about governing and democracy. Let me also note that
there are several Oscar-worthy performances in this one, including Miss
Bullock's, Mr. Thornton's, Mr. Almeda and a small, compelling one by
Zoe Kazan. In fact, there are several other performances that would be
Oscar-worthy, but Mr. Green's direction is so assured that everyone is
excellent. This is a fine, funny, harrowing movie and if it not
considered a great one by some people, they are simply mistaken.
<|_=00=_|>
Director David Gordon Green has absorbed the story (screenplay by Peter
Straughan based on Rachel Boynton's documentary) and in addition to
creating a tense film about political corruption in Bolivia, he places
before the public the corrupt tricky shenanigans inherent in US
politics that we are watching daily on television and other sources of
media manipulation as the contenders for presidential candidate throw
even more crude moments our way. It is well-timed film  if only people
will take the time to watch it.

The plot is well summarized: 'In 2002, Bolivian politician Pedro Gallo
hires American James Carville's political consulting firm, Greenberg
Carville Shrum, to help him win the 2002 Bolivian presidential
election. GCS brings in Jane Bodine (Sandra Bullock) to manage the
campaign in Bolivia. Battling her arch nemesis, the opposition's
political consultant Pat Candy (Billy Bob Thornton), Bodine
successfully uses American political campaign strategies to lead Gallo
(Joaquim de Almeida) to victory against Victor Rivera (Louis Arcella).
The depths to which these manipulators stoop are at first surprising
until we realize that politics is a game run by media writers and
crisis managers and money. Then we feel privy to the rotten side of
political campaigns and realize we are all watching it live at this
moment. 

An eye opener  or is it? The performances by Bullock, Thornton, and de
Almeida are excellent as are those by the supporting cast, which
includes Anthony Mackie, Ann Dowd, Dominic Flores, and impressive
newcomer Reynaldo Pacheco. 

Worthy of your attention if you can tolerate the undressing of
politics. Grady Harp, February 16
<|_=00=_|>
8.1 of 10. Not quite as enjoyable as the 2005 documentary that it's
named after, but definitely adds to the story and makes it more
exciting and funnier for those not into political documentaries.

It also provides a better look at Bolivia. Much of the documentary is
stuck inside or looking at the politicians when they occasionally step
outside. Here, the film explores the country and goes where the
documentary, possibly for safety reasons, never treaded.

The acting and casting is surprisingly good. Not the people you'd
expect for the main roles, yet they fit in extraordinarily well.

Not the best politically natured film of the year (that goes to Big
Short), but definitely the best and most insightful film on modern
election politics and "democracy".
<|_=00=_|>
"No wrong but losing." 

Three things I learned from watching David Gordon Green's Our Brand is
Crisis: 1. Politics is universally corruptThe Bolivian election
"Calamity" Jane Bodine (Sandra Bullock) is hired as a strategist for
has the very machinations extant in our own balloting as I write this
column.

2. What a candidate does after election may have nothing to do what he
or she promised to get elected.

3. Sandra Bullock can act--heretofore I have not been impressed, but in
this film she sheds her cute starlet demeanor and plays a bright,
depressive, frequently losing marketing adviser with enough brilliance
left after her battles to pull together a competitive campaign. Her
fragile nature combined with grit makes for a moderately complicated
character.

Our Brand is Crisis, adapted by director David Gordon Green and writer
Peter Straughan from Rachel Boynton's 2005 documentary of the same
name, is sometimes uncompromising about the low-ball shenanigans of a
campaign, with tricks such as spreading lies about an opponent or
spreading lies about your candidate to allow him to deny and ascribe
the rumor to his opponent.

It is gratifying to see that Jane is not above dirty tricks, nor does
she win each skirmish with the likes of her marketing opponent, Pat
Brady (a slick, smarmy, bald Billy Bob Thornton, based on Clinton
strategist James Carville).

Jane's past includes a stint at a mental hospital and questionable
tactics, one of which apparently led to a suicide. She is not the usual
glam Bullock; rather she is a shaggy, disheveled blond with self doubt
and frequently nauseous from the Bolivian altitude. At any rate she is
not the consultant Senator Castillo (Joaquin de Almeida) thought he was
paying for.

Nor does the film give her transcendent moments of inspiration: What
comes of success is learned experience and a bit of luck. No deus ex
machina in this drama. In fact, as Green marries her pratfalls with her
sometimes drunken speech, it's difficult to see where the usually
focused Green and his movie want us to go: Drama? Comedy? Satire? 

The differences between what Jane wants from the candidate and what he
wants provide effective moments of speechifying that illuminate the
process and develop character. Ben (Anthony Mackie), who runs the
campaign, has the right stuff to hire Jane and question her methods
while retaining a healthy sense of humor.

Our Brand is Crisis is a not-too-subtle look into politics and
marketing. Although you won't be surprised, you will be gratified that
what you suspected about the dirty tactics that go along with each is
true. Just put a few top actors in the roles, and you will believe.
<|_=00=_|>
While having quite the comedy value to it, "Our Brand of Crisis" is a
simple introduction to politic, the glory and all of its schemes. The
premise might be fictional but it presents a decently serious issue
with commentary of less-than-subtle nature. The cast is entirely
capable on creating mostly unscrupulous characters, although the theme
tends to plod in midway point.

Jane (Sandra Bullock) is a campaign strategist who has infamous rap,
often being dubbed "Calamity Jane". She is recruited into Bolivia
election while she also has to deal with her personal issues. This is
an occasionally dysfunctional woman, to say the least. She's not the
people person even though her occupation demands her to engage with
other colleagues and citizens.

The acting is strong and with addition of Billy Bob Thornton, Anthony
Mackie and Anthony Mackie, it's an engaging race of votes. Some of
these characters are more than one-dimensional workers, and their
apathetic mannerism or idealistic views are compelling to give more
depth to the subject. Its dirty smear strategy also gives insight on
the sometimes overlooked aspect of an election.

Story holds up well, although there are a few points that might be
repetitive. Its display of politic world is nice, and the underhanded
tactics can be realistically relatable, but the humor can be a misfire
as it doesn't connect properly and creates a jarring shift of tone. The
issues are somewhat exaggerated which might undermine the authentic
message it tries to show.

It may not be a landslide victory, but "Our Brand of Crisis" is
sufficiently told with great cast and approachable view on politic to
grab one's attention.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems to me none of the previous 30-something reviews get the
project. For it IS a project. It IS a political film.

Sandra Bullock knows HER brand and she uses it well. It is the staff of
Bullock magic, with which she sprinkles life into a rather boring topic
- and makes a rather non-dramatic, dare I say Almost Realistic", script
relevant? 

SB and her co-producer, George Clooney - who is also a brand-aware
actor, who uses HIS brand well, alternately for earning money and for
teaching youngsters about the world - are right on the money with this
story of How Politics Are Wrought And The Consequences Of Wanting Power
Enough To Risk The Fallout.

Sandra Bullock is the campaign manager, who long ago lost faith in
politics as a way to change the world. "When I was young, I admired
certain politicians and statesmen. Then I met them" 

When opportunity comes begging, she is lured out of a deliberate hiatus
by the chance to get even with an old colleague. 

What follows is a lesson - albeit 101 - in coming back from the dead,
when you have forsaken every ideal you once had for vengeance or fame
or money or just for doing it, again, and again. Leaving the hamster
wheel of old habits and lost self-respect is no easy measure, but like
she says to a politician at one point during a TV-debate on the
campaign trail: "If you should feel something there, in the heat of the
moment, something real, just turn your face to the camera". And when
SHE feels something for the first time in years, tentatively she
follows her own advice - though not for any other gain than to win back
her own self-respect. The power she had traded in for anger, pride,
whatever.

I gave it 9/10 - not because of the script, even if it is very, very
honed down to basics, and not for the many dramatically correct
internal references (the fly in the mask, the mask on the face), nor
for its unusual setting in Bolivia, or for its very true to life
representation of the Bolivian willingness to believe and their almost
innocent disappointment and anger, when politicians lie to them yet
again, or because of the very beautiful depiction of a politician in
new-found power, who is uneasy with the consequences of have lied, or
for the faith in the project as a whole, speaking on a very
understandable level, with Sandra Bulluck being true to Sandra Bullock
in every scene (admit it, she brightens every movie she's in!) - but
for all of it. 

You can watch it again and again, because it's not dangerous, but its
message is effective: The cost of power is power. But hope of
liberation is offered to all. Do you take it?

I would.
<|_=00=_|>
'Our Brand is Crisis' is based upon the apparently true story of the
wholly cynical manipulation of a presidential campaign in a Latin
American country. With such subject matter, one would expect it to come
across a lot more dark but unfortunately, this movie has a fairly
laconic, wishy-washy feel to it. The promised head-butting between the
two leads (Thornton and Bullock) comes across more as half-hearted
ironic flirtation. The attempt at sentimentality at the end seems
forced. I believe this movie would have played better as an unrepentant
dark comedy, and also get the sense that it should have been a
made-for-t.v. movie. There are some terrific location shots, apparently
filmed in Bolivia, where the movie is set.
<|_=00=_|>
The story may feel a bit like cliché and some may even argue that this
could be one of those "Drama of the week" TV movie. It certainly has a
feel to it that would make for a great argument to this point. But it
does have the acting talent at hand and it does have the urgency to
tell a story that is very relatable. Especially to the frustrated
voters in general all over the world.

Will it help them get over the frustration? Apart from the fact that I
don't want to spoil the movie for you, I'll just say that this is up
for debate. As is the ending, which will have quite a few shake their
head in disbelief. But it does make sense if you really think about it.
It's not about what is being said, but what lies in between (pun
intended).
