
I confess. I fell for the Shopaholic. Isla Fisher is charming, funny,
adorably goofy yet undeniably attractive. You can't help but notice her
uncanny resemblance to Enchanted's Amy Adams, which is not a bad thing
at all, yet she still maintains the same unique kookiness we all
enjoyed in her role as Vince Vaughn's equal in The Wedding Crashers.
The incredible job on the CGI'd mannequins, done by Lucasfilms'
Industrial Light & Magic, is also worth mentioning.

You're not supposed to go into the movie expecting it to be the next
epic Titanic love story. You're expecting it to be goofy and
sentimental yet genuine and entertaining, and it was all those things.

Confessions of a Shopaholic is a rare gem that's worth the guilty swipe
of a maximized credit card.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a longtime fan of the Sophie Kinsella Shopaholic books,
which feature the lovable but compulsive Becky Bloomwood. So I wasn't
sure what to expect out of the movie version.

Rebecca Bloomwood is a lovely redheaded young woman who loooooves to
shop. I am not talking about the reasonable kind of love where she goes
monthly or even weekly to see what's new at her local boutique. I am
talking about an addiction as powerful as any drug out there. When she
walks past a store, the mannequins talk to her and convince her that
this, only this, particular item has the power to make her feel better,
more attractive, more alive. She shops using 12 credit cards, including
her Gold Card, which is encased in a block of ice in the freezer in
case of emergencies. The tone of the film is comic, so it's not a
tragic type of addiction, but we understand that Becky has a problem
and she needs some serious help.

Rebecca also has her own personal bill collector stalker type person
following her around named Derek Smeath. All told, she owes Mr. Smeath
some $16,000. After losing her job as a journalist, she decides to
apply for her dream job: fashion correspondent for Alette magazine. For
Becky, this would be equivalent to an alcoholic working in a brewery.
The job gets filled before she can arrive, but a sister magazine from
the same magazine group, Successful Saving, is hiring. The man at the
front desk assures her that the magazine group is a family, and once
you're in, you're in. The only problem is that the magazine that ends
up hiring Becky is a financial advice magazine. Not exactly the type of
place that suits Becky's lifestyle or assets.

Becky's boss is Luke Brandon, a handsome, wealthy man with lots of
energy and a black sheep complex. He never feels he can please his
parents and leads a life of stress. He's amused by Becky's antics and
impressed by her candor. Becky's writing for the financial magazine is
a surprise hit. She writes about financial restraint in such a way that
the average layperson can relate, comparing it to shoes. It seems like
everything's going swell with her new job and a surprise romance with
Luke. Derek Smeath can't get a leg in since she's convinced her
colleagues that he's an ex-boyfriend stalking her. But like any liar
knows, Becky can't keep the truth from her friends and family for long.

I enjoyed this movie. It was fun and sincere. We like Becky because she
is flawed. She doesn't have it all together, but her style and spirit
charm everyone around her. Sure she's addicted to shopping, but we
don't despise her for it. Instead, we relate, because what woman hasn't
given in to the siren song of a signature scarf now and again. The pull
of a good bargain is a powerful thing, and this film is bound to be a
hit with the average female.

The acting is suitable for the film. Nothing revolutionary comes out of
it, but Isla Fisher will likely be back in many a comic role. The
pacing of the film keeps you involved, but there are enough heartfelt
moments to keep us focused.

Some have said that the timing for this film couldn't be worse. With
the world in an economic downturn, do we really want to smile and nod
at Becky's need to buy, buy, buy? Well, I say this film is healing
balm. The nation will recover from this mini-depression, but in the
meantime, it's kind of nice to voyeuristically enjoy Becky's
indulgences. I have had to natch my weekly Starbucks and batten down my
bank account hatches, so I need a little reward, even if it's done
through Becky's pocketbook. Also, anyone who watches the film will
realize that Becky goes through her own hard time, and she finds a way
to get through it. She comes up with her own entrepreneurial scheme to
pay off her debt. This is what we all need to do during the difficult
times. Find a way to get through. Becky is my hero.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying that I'm not your typical macho male who
hates everything that is even remotely resembling to a chick flick. I
like a good chick flick - if it's good. Most of them are. Some are not.
Confessions of a Shopaholic fall into the latter category. The movie is
painfully predictable (you can literally guess what will happen next)
and ridiculously not funny. The acting is poor, even though there is a
number of well-renowned artists present. The fashions is more than
once, more than twice absolutely disgraceful, especially for a fashion
themed movie. The plot is flat and it lacks much sense. The main
character is annoyingly irresponsible. The list goes on and on, but
there is something more that is really frightening. The movie is
basically about a person who suffers from being a shopaholic. She has
actual illness, which makes her buy everything she sees on the display,
which gives her an adrenaline rush. We all know that there is such
thing. Nothing wrong about making a movie about it either. The problem
is that this is not handled in any good way in the movie. The girl gets
off easy, she barely learns her lesson and on top of everything the
poor debt-collecting worker is being shown as a negative character for
reasons I cannot fully understand. What's even more frightening, I can
see this movie being a guideline for hundreds of women who in deed have
a spending problem, who do spend more than they make and I doubt that
this movie will make them rethink their actions, au contraire: they
will find it as an excuse to develop their habits even further. As far
as I am from preaching about the state of economy, I really thought
that this movie carried a certain amount of wisdom; instead of this, I
was left with a moronic picture for brain-dead. Thanks, but no thanks.
If a gay guy hates a chick flick, then you know it can't be good.
<|_=00=_|>
I watch a lot of films. I'll watch anything from a slasher fest to some
weird arty film that videos bookshelves (well almost).

Last year I pretty much watched every romantic comedy in existence, as
that is all my (male) house-mate would watch. I'll watch anything but
I've seen enough to know the dire ones (well, we all have our own
opinions).

I really enjoyed this film. Maybe it is because I expected it to be
really awful. Maybe I got seduced by the good cast. Or I really am a
secret girly girl and just thought all the shopping was fabulous.

But seriously, how did this get _that_bad an IMDb rating? I mean, I
actually thought it was better than the Devil Wears Prada, which I
thought was a bit of a let down. OK, the script is not original but it
doesn't contain any big clangers and it doesn't try to hard. There is
no wooden acting. No moments of cringe worthy awfulness, and some good
cast chemistry. No, if you want to see a bad big-budget rom-com I still
maintain Wimbledon is awful. Paul Bettany and Kirsten Dunst looked
completely indifferent to one another.

As for being disappointed about books. Sheesh. If you love a book never
go see a movie (e.g. Atonement) or accept it is going to be completely
different.

Confessions is utterly predictable, but the characters and actors are
kooky in a lovable non-Oscar lusting way. Its like cheap chocolate-you
know it has hardly any rich content but you keep going back.

F*** it. I really like this movie. Not quite as much as Fight Club or
Dawn of the Dead, but its moving up there. Seriously.

Now if only they'd do a sequel involving Christina Ricci and a load of
blood...
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I start... this movie was terrible! I went with my friends on
Valentines day hoping for a fun chick flick. We were all so bored and
annoyed with the movie that we couldn't wait for it to be over.

If you've read the book, you'll be distracted by how different the
movie is. They took a good concept and pretty much ruined it. There is
a lot of overacting/squealing/screaming, characters that pop in and
out, and laughable, cheesy drama at the end. To wrap it up, there are
even creepy mannequins. While the movie is packed with good actors and
actresses, their talent isn't utilized in this silly, overworked
script.

Invest your $10 in the book... it's much better!
<|_=00=_|>
Being a non-shopper, I can hardly call myself expert on the parsing of
a shopaholic in Confessions of a Shopaholic. But this I can say:
Rebecca Bloomwood (Isla Fisher) is an addict of major proportions,
unable to let go of the exhilaration that shopping brings, a feeling
that the world is better for her purchases.

The film is a clich√© from the get go, as corny as could possibly be
about 25 year old writer Rebecca with the shopping affliction who
eventually meets her dream man through a series of subterfuges that
would make Melanie Griffith's Tess in Working Girl proud. What saves
the film from my scourge, which did not spare the recent Pink Panther
2, is Isla Fisher, who plays dangerous innocence with sincerity and
fresh-facedness that makes even Anne Hathaway's Devil Wears Prada role
seem downright Machiavellian.

Confessions has this going for it: Although it is not a Judd Apatow
comedy with some layers of sophisticated social comedy, it has moments
of laughter and social conscience. Coming as it does amidst the worst
recession in decades, in which shopping would be a welcome antidote to
the fear of spending that exacerbates the recession, Confessions almost
makes a case for credit spending; then again maybe such encouragement
is not a good thing for shopaholics.
<|_=00=_|>
Rebecca Bloomwood (Isla Fisher) is a journalist with aspirations to
work for Alette magazine. When her current job is lost when her company
goes bankrupt, Rebecca is devastated to find she is $9000+ in debt.
She, ironically, becomes a financial adviser columnist.

I went to this movie purely because of my crush on Isla, ever since
seeing her in Wedding Crashers as the nympho obsessed with Jeremy
(Vince Vaughn). It is without a doubt, a gigantic chick flick. Jokes
that occur during the film, 90% of them have been seen in the trailer.
Not trying to knock the movie, but that's a fact. Don't get me wrong, I
enjoyed the movie, laughed a lot and sat awwstruck by the talent
showcased by Isla. She really showed her colors by hitting all elements
of the emotion spectrum.

I was surprised that her co-stars are such big names; such as her
parents being played by lovable John Goodman and Joan Cusack, with
Edgar West being played by John Lithgow and her opposite of the film
being Hugh Dancy. There's a truckload of "aww" uttering romance, "lol"
comedy and it's great for all ages. It also has a lesson at the end:
use credit cards wisely. But overall, it teaches you that only fairy
tale romance is active in Hollywood, not in reality. In the real world,
Rebecca would not have gotten back in the black side of finance.

The clich√©s damper the movie's rating, for me, but it's a very enjoyful
movie and I wouldn't mind seeing it a few more times before it leaves
the theaters. By the way, it's a great date movie. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoy a mindless romantic comedy as much as the next person, but I
was unable to finish this movie. For one, it was supremely annoying.
Isla Fisher and most of the other characters were stereotyped into
oblivion, to the point where you couldn't relate if you wanted to. And
why would you want to relate? They were for the most part selfish,
short-sighted, curiously loud, and generally intolerable. But the main
reason that compelled me to turn the movie off is that I found it
completely insulting. Viewers are supposed to suspend reality and
believe that Fisher finds fame and success as a financial writer
through her ridiculous metaphors about shopping. The fact that she's
too dumb to take her own advice, and yet she still somehow manages to
fool everyone around her, is just too much reality for me to suspend.
Moreover, the portrayal of a woman who finds success in finance through
only dumb luck and cute outfits is an insult to all the women who find
similar success in that field through their intellect and drive. I read
the book and liked it enough to read the whole series, but this movie
effectively removed all the nuances and details that made the book (and
the pretty distasteful habits it depicted) bearable. I guess the sad
irony is that I paid to watch it, while all the people involved with it
are laughing all the way to the bank. Don't waste your time watching
this abhorrent airbrushed fairy tale, and if you have a daughter of a
formative age, please don't let her watch it either.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to give credit where credit is due; "Confessions of a
Shopaholic" does have some engaging moments of comedic credibility. But
unfortunately not enough to provide the film with a high interest rate.
"Confessions of a Shopaholic" stars the perky Isla Fisher as Rebecca
Bloomwood, a full-time magazine writer who also moonlights and
daylights as a full-time shopaholic. Ms. Bloomwoodgale herself
persistently shops & shops and has run her credit card balances to
astronomical rates. Rebecca is in denial that she has a consumer
addiction even though she continues to confront many credit card
denials in her shopping sprees. She inadvertently gets hired to work as
a journalist in (out of all places) a financial magazine. However, her
overridden goal is to work as a fashion journalist in the monarchic
fashion magazine "Adelle". She starts writing columns in the financial
magazine with the alias "the girl with the green scarf" on the
nightmare of commercial manipulation and consumer zaniness. Yes! That
is true! Is this great country or what? Oh wait, memo to self: this is
a movie! Rebecca's personal list includes: a humble editor boss whom
she falls for, a best friend roommate who tries to control her
shopamanian ways, and parents who want to pursue their R.V. road trip
dreams. Eventually and predictably, Rebecca does get herself in several
hot water scenarios caused by her consumer craziness and persistent
blasphemy. So therefore, she does go through the self-realization
addiction process. Director P.J. Hogan's stereotypical depictions of
the consumer industry did not provide me anything of originality to get
all charged about. However, I must not discount the fact that I did
like how he directed Isla Fisher. She was The Fisher Queen of this film
with her zany but yet fervent performance; Isla is sure to have her
master thespian card renewed with other comedic leading roles in the
foreseeable future. However, the rest of the cast of "Confessions of a
Shopaholic" are not worthy of a credit thespian increase. Screenwriter
Tracey Jackson's script was not of a "laugh-it-all blue light special"
material, but commendable enough for a few laughs in return. Due to our
nation's economic strife, "Confessions of a Shopaholic" might not be
the ideal movie to watch these days; but then again as was previously
mentioned- It is a movie! So this yours truly movieholic will try to
sale it to you at a moderate price. *** Average
<|_=00=_|>
I recently went to see this movie with a friend, and we both laughed
until our sides hurt. It has absolutely everything you would want in a
chick-flick. Isla Fisher was perfect as Becky Bloomwood. They couldn't
have picked a better actress for her character. And Hugh Dancy as Luke
Brandon was like a dream come true. 

Becky Bloomwood loves shopping - Not in a natural way. Virtually every
time she passes by a shop window, she sees something that she must
have. All her buying decisions are purely impulsive. She even drives
her friend up the wall with her problem, and in result, she begs Becky
to seek help at "Shoppers Anonymous" - a club for recovering
shopaholics.

This movie is a funny, charming, and heart-warming adaption to
Kinsella's book. It even provokes a few tears. I recommend this movie
to everyone I know. I'll rate it 9/10 because it simply wasn't long
enough.
