
I enjoy bad movies, and enjoy bad remakes even more. So when the
opportunity to get advanced passes to the atrocious looking remake of
Footloose came, I pounced on them just out of the sheer will to see
what kind of monstrosity Craig Brewer and company came up with. The
film had gone through a number of changes, and had plenty of room to
improve on the original. Sadly, I do not think there was ever any hope
for it.

After a horrific accident takes the lives of five high school seniors,
the town of Bomont, Tennessee outlaws a number of activities for the
teenage populace including dancing. Enter Ren McCormack (Kenny
Wormald), a city kid and distinct outsider to the close knit Bomont
townspeople. He is confused by the bans, and after making a few new
friends, sets out to get them abolished.

While the nostalgia factor may cloud the memories of some people, the
original Footloose is really nothing more than a fun diversion packed
alongside an absolutely infectious soundtrack that is still great even
today. It is a fairly silly film really, but with the help of Kevin
Bacon's 1984-era charm and charisma, the film remains a wildly
enjoyable film. Yet somehow, in remaking the film for an audience in
2011, it seems like the filmmakers missed more than a few steps along
the way.

Now I will be the first to admit that this new remake does have a
handful of fun scenes and astonishing dance choreography. The trailers
do a good job of showing off just how great some of the dance moves are
from this new cast, but what it does not let on too much is that most
of these scenes come when they are replicating scenes from the original
film. I basked in the glory of hearing Kenny Loggins blasting, while
watching the various pairs of feet dancing to the beat. And seeing
Willard (Miles Teller) learning how to dance is one of the highlights
of the film, much like it is the original film. A key dance sequence
late in the film is also significantly better than I could have ever
predicted.

But that is where the enjoyment ends. 

The rest of the film that surrounds these scenes is dull and lifeless,
moving at a snail's pace and just going through the motions. There is
very little fun to be had, and should someone venture into the film
without having seen the original, they may wonder why anyone wanted to
remake it in the first place. Instead of trying to improve and make the
plot line less ludicrous, the filmmakers left the entire crux of the
film the exact same. They merely changed a few character traits around,
shuffled in some racy dialogue, and took out the tractors and added in
school buses. They sucked out all the fun, and what is left seems like
a mere project that was cranked out with little to no thought for what
audiences may actually perceive to be enjoyable.

Worse yet, the soundtrack is a totally forgettable affair. While it is
the crucial element of the original film, it feels like a largely
laughable affair here. I was originally intrigued at the idea of the
film containing all the original songs, albeit covered by new artists.
But somehow, all of the catchiness of the original tunes seems to have
been stripped from these new ones. Instead, we are left with versions
that have a country twang or overtly urban feel to them, and absolutely
no reason to want to listen to these new versions ever again. I would
be lying if I did not think the most memorable tracks in the film were
the two original ones that somehow were deemed okay to fit into the
film. I would register a guess that this is the influence of Brewer,
who is best known for Hustle & Flow and Black Snake Moan. He has a
distinctly Southern taste to his body of work, and practically forces
it on this film. But in forcing this ideology, alongside two completely
different genres of music, he crushes the film into submission, leaving
many scenes an absolute mess. 

The acting in the film is even more disappointing. Dennis Quaid looks
embarrassed in every scene he is in, overacting as much as he possibly
can to forget that he is in the film. Andie McDowell looks like she
wandered in off the wrong set, and just decided to stick around as a
background character. Wormald is a poor substitute for Bacon, and is an
even worse lead for a major motion picture. I realize he is a dancer
first and foremost, but leaving him to carry this film was an awful
decision. He looks frightened and confused for the majority of the
film, and quivers through most of his lines. He lacks Ren's charm, and
is never believable when he rebels against authority. You want to
believe in this character, but all you will do is laugh at how
staggeringly bad Wormald's performance is. Julianne Hough, the female
lead, at least attempts to act. She comes close to a breakthrough in
more than one instance, but she comes off a bit too amateur for her own
good. She makes a great dance partner for Wormald, but for what little
shred of chemistry she has, it is made totally moot when he opens his
mouth. 

What redeems the film from being the awful travesty it should be is
Teller's performance as Willard. The moment he walks on-screen, he has
an energy to him that is simply unmatchable. He is the single best
thing about the film, embodying the innocence, spirit and fun of Chris
Penn's original performance. If you venture into this remake, see it
for him and ignore the rest. You may find some remotely enjoyable
experience buried in there somewhere.

4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a teen when the original movie came out, and I also live near
Lehi, Utah where it was filmed which made me think fondly of the movie
whenever I drove by the Lehi Roller Mills. (Today it is a sprawling
metropolis, resembling little of the sleepy little town like in the
movie.) When I heard another pointless remake was coming out, I decided
to give it the Redbox treatment instead of completely boycotting it.

After watching it with my wife who had never seen the original, I was
able to say, "Not so bad, but pointless as a remake." Most of the
original music (which I still love) was recycled into something
recognizable but not lovable. The scenes played out nearly identical to
the original but with different actors. The whole way through it, I had
the feeling that the director was watching the original on a hand-held
device, then turned to the actors and said, "I have an idea for this
next scene." If I recall correctly, even the dialog where it wasn't
modernized with MP3 players (instead of cassette players) and cell
phones (instead of...what the heck did we have?) was word for word.

Usually remakes are for big block busters where today's technology and
special effects can outshine the feeble attempts of the past and make a
great story better by sucking the audience in. This movie had none of
that, and in summary, became another pointless Hollywood rehash for
quick cash. The only improvement I could acknowledge was a sub-plot
that explained Ren's actions a little better, but it was still not an
excuse to remake a classic.

My advice: watch the original. It's much better.
<|_=00=_|>
Full disclosure time: I saw the original 1984 version at the
now-defunct Cinema 8 multiplex at the also-now defunct Bon Marche Mall
(the buildings have been renovated into other places) and I remember
enjoying it very much at the one time I watched it in its entirety. I
had also bought the soundtrack LP album beforehand and had highly
enjoyed that several times as a teenager. Then there were also videos
of several of its hits like Deniece Williams' "Let's Hear It for the
Boy", Bonnie Tyler's "Holding Out for a Hero", and Kenny Loggins' title
song which consisted mainly of clips of Kevin Bacon's (or his dance
double's) movements. So it was with all that in mind that I saw this
remake with an open head. The verdict: I still had a good time though
my excitement factor wasn't as overwhelming perhaps because of my fond
memories of the original and some of the changes didn't seem necessary.
Still, having the actor Miles Teller playing the same role done by
Chris Penn nearly 30 years before in learning to dance and enjoying
himself as a result was still a highlight in both versions. And former
"Dancing with the Stars" pro Julianne Hough shows some chops in
reenacting the Lori Singer role. And while Kenny Wormald won't make you
forget Bacon in his iconic role, he's not too bad either. And the same
goes for Dennis Quaid playing the John Lithgow part. So on that note,
this version of Footloose is recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The only real reason to pay any attention at all to the new Footloose
is to watch the music video for the terrific Big and Rich song "Fake
ID." Other than that, there is little appeal in the film, as it
shamelessly recycles almost every scene, event, and line from its
original counterpart, and the ones it doesn't, it modifies for an
audience that is questionably existent. If there's anything the film
made me do, it made me seriously contemplate what a "remake" actually
is and what their inherent goal is. To make the original material
better? Make the story more current? Give it a stronger, more
contemporary feel and look? If those questions were considered during
the making of the Footloose remake, they weren't considered for very
long. This is a stale, unimaginably boring picture, with its first real
problem being it is trying to make an immensely dated story of music
and dancing banishment current and relatable to teenagers of the
present. In a time where vulgar rap by artists named "Chief Keef,"
"Juicy J," and "Wiz Khalifa" can be found on the iPods of teens in
schools and they can get away with it, I highly doubt teens will be
able to resonate with playing Kenny Loggins or Quiet Riot a bit too
loud.

The original Footloose at least had the benefit of being a film with a
contemporary issue to its time and the appeal of its lead, Kevin Bacon.
Granted watching it now is like dusting off a C-grade vinyl that barely
functions, it at least had the ability to give the student body a voice
and a personality as they tried to keep their freedom to play rock
music (please say this out loud) alive and well. The new Footloose,
however, is like that guy randomly wearing acid-washed jeans in public
in 2013; random, out of place, and questionable beyond belief.

The story hasn't changed at all; we center our sites on the small town
of Bomont, Georgia, that has been musically silenced since reverend
Shaw Moore (Dennis Quaid) pressured the city council to ban music and
dancing after loud music "resulted" in the deaths of five teenagers
driving late at night. I say "resulted" because the cause of death was
more of teenage stupidity. The pop music blaring on the radio at the
time had little effect.

Ten years after this horrendous legislation, Bostonian teenager Ren
McCormack (Kenny Wormald) waltzes into town and experiences a culture
shock when he realizes that, hey, not only do people who live in other
towns have different lifestyles than himself, but music is frowned upon
in this tight-nit community. However, that doesn't stop Moore's
rebellious daughter Ariel (Julianne Hough), who can often be found
batting her bubbly blue eyes and shaking her bouncy backside in no mans
land areas deep in the outskirts of town along with dozens of other
teens.

Right off the bat, Moore isn't fond of the way Ren behaves. His
attitude is smarmy and purposefully instigating, and the thought that
he is a teen with something to say unnerves him greatly. The remainder
of the film amplifies this conflict between them, as well as trying to
make a bold statement that teenagers are supposed to be reckless, dumb,
and the driving force behind many mistakes.

This conflict between Ren and "the man" leads all the way to the city
council, where Ren tries to use Bible verses to sway the entire council
(including Moore) to allow music and public dancing to be etched back
in Bomont's society. He states that people in biblical times danced for
God and Jesus, leaping and ecstatically celebrating them with the art
of movement. Okay. I'm sure when Ariel is gyrating and shaking her
blue-jean short-shorts in front of every guy in a vacant field she
definitely has our lord and savior in mind. Same with Ren; I'm sure
when he got down in the crowded saloon for line dancing or when him and
several others fight the gang of bullies during a school dance at the
end of the film, they all had God and Jesus in their hearts and minds.
You couldn't fool a maroon with your logic.

Director Craig Brewer (Black Snake Moan and Hustle and Flow - two films
that wouldn't even be on the same shelf as Footloose in ANY category,
list, arrangement, etc) doesn't even offer any pleasing attributes to
this film stylistically, albeit some good choreography. Other than
maybe a few good scenes involving a large production number and several
dozen dancers, the film's redone music, contemporary atmosphere,
updated production, and caricature-driven cast seems like an act of
indolence, if anything. I had a hard time admiring the original
Footloose, but credited it for being something of a time-staple, even
if it doesn't hold up well in present time. It's hard to credit the new
Footloose at all, since its very existence is perplexing.

Starring: Kenny Wormald, Julianne Hough, Andie MacDowell, and Dennis
Quaid. Directed by: Craig Brewer.
<|_=00=_|>
The 80s version had more energy and focus. This remake was a bit
lacking in impact. The story is similar to the original but here the
obstacles felt contrived especially the confrontations with the trashy
boyfriend. Dennis Quaid and Andie Macdowell looked like they would
rather be elsewhere.

The group dancing and modern street style dancing isn't well
choreographed and isn't exciting. Too much was done as a group and not
enough emotionally interesting pairings.

The casting was hit and miss. Kenny Wormald isn't handsome enough for
the lead even though he is a good dancer. Julianna Hough is very lovely
though her dancing wan't showcased well. It couldn't have amounted to
more than a few minutes.

Overall not a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand why we need to remake great movies. this movie
sucks. Stay with the original. I was disappointed in the music. I am
happy that a few of the original songs were in it. one song was changed
and sang different. That was horrible. The songs and dance scenes
needed to be the way it was in the original movie. I understand that it
is a 2011 version of the movie but I think too many things were
changed. I am not knocking the actors in any way. they are great actors
and amazing dancers. I am just not a fan of the movie it self. the
actors are amazingly talented. I am just not a big fan of remakes. The
movie had too many changes.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, the original film was like a lot of 80s movies--campy, silly and
sometimes just about the musicbut this remake should have been
forgotten. While the writers kept quite a few original lines and the
director kept some iconic scenes, something was lost in translation.
That loss cannot be blamed on any one part of the film but rather the
disgraceful whole.

There some changes that I enjoyed. The opening scene, though storyline
changed a bit, had more of an impact behind the impetus of the town's
laws. The dancing was top notch by today's standards though a little
raunchy a time or two. Kenny Wormald did justice to Kevin Bacon's dance
in the warehouse, changing it just enough to make it his own. Julianna
Hough kept up with him every step of the way during the dance scenes.
Even the at the end, it was refreshing in this day of girl-power to see
the football team told by a teammate to "man-up" and ask the girls to
dance.

That said, the rest of the film is an empty cardboard parody, lacking
any sense of poignancy that endeared the original to a generation. The
soundtrack fell below the standard set in 1984, though they sort of
kept Whitney Houston's original "Let's Hear it for the Boy" when
Willard learns to dance (a highlight in both films). Also, they changed
Beamis Mill (which I believe dealt with concrete) to a cotton gin mill,
very poor taste.

The characters are hollow and thanks to the deletion of several key
scenes, the actors are not given a chance to redeem themselves and give
us characters we can empathize with.

Kenny Wormald was a great choice for the dancing scenes. It's
impeccable and when when he dances you can feel his passion come
through the screen. His acting, however, was limited to cockiness and
poker face. Kenny seemed to struggle to find the balance in that sweet
spot between underacting and overacting. Two scenes that clearly show
this is when his aunt asked him why the dance was important and when he
stands before the town counsel. Both times lack passion, conviction and
inflection. He could very well have been reading the nutrition panel on
the side of a bag of bread. The closest I came to identifying with him
was when his Uncle talked about him taking care of his mom. Kenny could
not seem to remember he was supposed to be a rebel with a cause and not
just another rebellious teenager.

Julianna Hough is gorgeous and confident. Confidence like hers can
hinder a performance when you are supposed to be playing a wild child
who is acting out because of insecurity. I am trying to give her the
benefit of the doubt as key scenes were not in the film that would have
brought depth to her character. You miss out on the deep reasons behind
the hurt and vulnerability that Lori Singer pulled off wonderfully. For
example, the scene about types of music in the original between Ariel
and Shaw went a long way to deepen the dynamics of father-daughter
relationship, and helped build each character's journey in the minds
and hearts of the audience. Or the scene with the music box, showed the
vulnerability of Ariel as she shared who she really is with Ren, brave
and yet fearful of rejection for her real self. Those scenes might have
saved Hough's performance. Instead, her version of Ariel came across as
an angry brat who looked good dancing.

Dennis Quaid looked ill-at-ease throughout the entire movie, and even
when he's angry he looks like he might lose his breakfast. Again, I am
trying to give his performance the benefit of the doubt as they cut
several key character-development scenes which would have shown how he
grew throughout the course of the film. For example, the book-burning
scene in the original is a major turning point for this character. John
Lithgow's heart (original) could be seen in that scene when he sees
what he's done. It's a point of no return when he had to really think
about what he'd done and why and how he will proceed. Had they kept
that scene, he would have reason, he would have believability. Now,
instead, Shaw comes across as another fumbling close-minded dad/leader
who had no clue about real life until his wife and daughter school him,
along with a very brief talk with Ren.

Andie MacDowell didn't have much chance with the majority of Vi's
scenes cut. That said, had been included them it would not have
mattered. Only once during this film did she remind me of the quiet
strength and dignity that Dianne Wiest brought to the role (town
meeting). Her few scenes with Dennis Quaid are almost belittling and
instead of the gentle correction of Vi quietly convicting Shaw Andie's
Vi seemed to constantly condemn him.

Miles Teller as Willard is probably the most enjoyable of the entire
cast. I know some out there have decried his performance, but I think
he took the role and made it his own while retaining the child-like
naiveté that was Willard. He was a little on the over-sexed teen side
of things in this film (which got old), but otherwise, he was fun to
watch.

The flaws are many in this film. I would give this film 2 out of 5
stars simply for the dancing, The tag line is "Cut Loose" and they
stripped away any of the sentimentality that would have made this a fun
film to watch over and over again.

They removed what made Footloose so foot loose. They simply cut too
loose.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the original and was really excited to see this remake. I was
very disappointed. They copied the original, just added cell phones and
CD's and a few modern dance moves. Same soundtrack, just a hint
modernized, I'm pretty sure even some of the lines were exactly the
same. There was nothing creative or original about this movie.

You know that feeling where you see an actor/actress in a certain role
and then you see them in another movie and it's like they were told to
keep the same character but the film's setting is so completely
different and all you can think is 'no, this is wrong, this just
doesn't work'. It's exactly what I thought while watching this film but
instead of the character(s) being wrong it felt like the whole movie
was wrong.

I would have even accepted it if the only thing they kept was the basic
concept and redesigned the rest from scratch. But they played it too
safe and ended up with a copy instead of a fresh film.

That said if you've never seen the original Footloose it's alright.
<|_=00=_|>
What was the point? The director just went through and removed all the
good stuff from the first movie. The original is based on events which
took place in Elmore City, OK and yes, they banned dancing. It's hard
for today's teens to fathom how religious the 80s were, which might be
why they can't grasp a movie like this. You can't make a modern remake
of this movie because today's kids aren't suffocating under this type
of extreme religiosity. In the original, the ban is on dancing,
including a teen prom. The kids are only being reasonable to protest
this. In this remake, the ban is on "lewd and lascivious dancing" which
the teens think they have a right to perform in the streets.

In the original, Ren is an old soul. After his father dies, Ren and his
mother must shack with his uncle, moving Ren from Chicago to a tiny
town where dancing is banned. Instead of making things more difficult
for his mother, Ren tries to fit in and treats everyone politely and
respectfully, which results in him being bullied by the small towners.
He even tolerates this and tries to play by their rules, never once
pointing out the obvious insults a typical obnoxious city teen would
have for the rural folks.

In this remake, Ren is instead that typical bratty teen, thinking an
accident of birth makes him better than everyone, and greeting
practically the entire town with the insult that they are hicks.
Despite this, the town isn't even that small and is actually
multicultural, and the kids dance to hip hop! The only issue the kids
face is that their parents don't want them bumping and grinding too
suggestively to it! Yeah, that's Ren's issue. His parents are dead, but
that's his issue. Even the judge in this town had long hair as a teen,
and Ren's uncle reminds him of this, to justify Ren blasting the town
with noise pollution.

In the original, Ren must struggle to please an unreasonable uncle who
blames him for things he didn't do, while this uncle has Ren's back
before even asking him if he's guilty. Ren basically has no real
struggles to speak of, yet he does a lot of whining anyway. We are
supposed to sympathize enough over the loss of his parents to support
him humping his girlfriend openly in the streets. The uncle thinks his
little girls (and all little girls) should be exposed to this. Ren even
declares to the adults that "as kids, its our job to do stupid things",
yet he doesn't expand on what the jobs of adults might be.

Ariel's father protests not so much because he's a pastor, but because
he maintains some shred of hope that his daughter is still a virgin,
but when she informs her father that she's not, and Ren informs her
father that his daughter is a slut, the pastor gives up and accepts
that he will be a grandfather soon. Ren's revelation that Ariel is
already hot for his bod means she should be allowed to dance lewd and
become a teen mother.

In the original, the pastor and Ren finally bond because the pastor
lost his son and Ren lost his father. Ren cleverly uses Bible verses to
make his point at the town meeting, because it is the only way to
convince a highly religious town that bases all of their rules on the
Bible. He does this because he is a wise, respectful young man who
isn't paranoid of a little studying. In the remake "sir, your daughter
is already a slut" is the extent of Ren's argument to the pastor, yet
it is (apparently) oddly persuasive.

This movie is just laughably bad, so much so that even people who can't
quite explain why it's laughably bad still know that it is.
<|_=00=_|>
I had such high hopes for this movie. I was excited by the beginning,
tragic explanation of what happened to make the townsfolk think it was
a good idea to create a string of very strict laws. That's where the
excitement ended. Aside from a few entertaining scenes, i.e. Willard
learning how to dance with a bunch of cute little girls, it was one
confused "Seriously!?!" moment after another.

In trying to stay true the the original, they made it laughably bad. If
you're going to do a remake, make it original so it isn't compared so
closely to the original. I heard the exact same lines, said with less
feeling and horribly off timing. I saw great scenes replaced with
ridiculous substitutions, like riding a tractor 20 feet to the buses
they were about to race. I was devastated to hear how the songs from
the original soundtrack had been thrown into a blender and murdered
mercilessly, like "I Need a Hero" being made into an ultra-slow ballad. 

And the dancing... come on people. The story is supposed to be about
regular teenagers dancing to their music their way. Have you ever been
to a dance club to see how teenagers dance? Have you ever seen a bunch
of kids dancing their asses off with the music coming from car speakers
at a park in New York? I have. The drive-in scene was close, but as far
as I'm concerned, Wormald used way too many Broadway moves for these
scenes to be believable. 

As for the acting, I think Hough did slightly better than Singer, but
Wormald was not nearly so memorable as Kevin Bacon was, especially when
he was speaking to the town council. However, Miles Teller did do an
excellent job of playing the slightly goofy, lovable Willard. Dennis
Quaid was definitely not the right choice to play a preacher, but I
loved Ray McKinnon and Kim Dickens as Ren's aunt and uncle. They were
great.

Bottom Line - If they hadn't tried so hard to stick to the original, if
they hadn't butchered the original music so thoroughly, and if they
hadn't cast dancers as actors, it would have been much, much better.
