
Have you seen it? No? There is likely a very good reason for that...it
stinks.

Like nearly ALL the endless remakes and reboots that have been plaguing
movie goers for the past decade or so....all this is, is a heartless
version of the original.

It has no heart.

It has no soul.

It is a retelling of a film that we all love and cherish...and it adds
nothing to the story. It improves nothing but the special
effects--which held up very well over time--and in some cases belittles
the fans of the original...particularly in the fact that they remade
the movie at all, without adding anything clever to it.

Like so many other remakes it is a hallow shell of the original.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually created this account just to make this review. I've never
ever seen such a bad acting Seriously the (Dad) is trying to be so cool
all time so it gets embarrassing. His walking like his a bodybuilder
and got this rough hard attitude against his family members so its just
make you wanna crawl out of the skin AWFUL: Same with the mother
absolutely ZERO actress and their dialog are so unnatural like their
reading it from a book. Alsom their expressions doesn't fit what
they're saying at all.

There's not even ONE moment where i even get a little scared all is so
predictable.

I cant believe they got the permission to do a remake of this (cult
movie) Don't see it just keep you're memories from the original MOvie.

Im honestly stunned how bad the (Parents) are its like a Joke.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a bit of a fan of the original Poltergeist. It's got that great
80's Spielberg factor I grew up with, but with a Tobe Hoopers horror
touch. I wasn't really looking forward or planning on seeing this
remake, but since it popped up on the new movies list on an on-demand
movie site, I decided to give it a go.

Have to say I was pleasantly surprised. I hadn't read anything about it
beforehand, so I didn't know if it was crap or gold. It's kind of a
weird movie actually, it's not excessively scary, no gore and the tone
is somewhat light. There are creepy moments and definitely some good
mild scares, but the overall feel is entertaining rather than scary.
Which in my opinion works for the benefit of this movie.

Acting, directing, cinematography, editing, fx .. all good. Can't
remember how the music was actually, but I suppose it worked fine if it
didn't stick out.

Recommended. Not for hardcore horror freaks, but as a Friday night
entertainment it's pretty good. Simple, back to basics kind of movie,
not filled with hundreds of underlying themes and endless plot twists.
<|_=00=_|>
Poltergeist is a horror remake of the 1982 original. I've heard a lot
about the original and was quite surprised that many people hated the
remake. This new remake got a 5.0 on IMDb which is comparably much
worse than many horror flicks. However, after watching the new
Poltergeist, I have to say that it definitely doesn't suck like other
remakes and even though it has many places that could've been better,
the 2015 Poltergeist is a slightly above-average horror flick
(definitely worth more than a 5.0).

One thing that I heard the most from the audience is that Poltergeist
has nothing special. It didn't add many new ideas rather than turning
it into a cash-grabber. In some ways I agree, but since this remake has
already exists, I think that it still stands pretty well on its own.
I'm gonna be honest that I didn't finish watching the original. What I
remember is that there are many lines and scenes in the remake that are
nearly 100 % same as the original, but still, if we set aside with the
original, Poltergeist is actually pretty decent. 

I do like many ideas that are used in the remake, such as the shadow
part which I found it refreshing, and also how the movie is presented.
Poltergeist isn't like many failed-to-be-stylish horror flicks which
tried too much on maintaining the atmosphere then ending up suck very
bad, just like Annabelle. Though you can still find many reused
concepts from other horror movies and yes, many jump scares,
Poltergeist still has some pretty scary scenes, especially in the first
half of the movie, which I thought that the director paved the
direction real well. 

However, something that I felt really annoyed with this remake is the
overuse of its CGI. This Poltergeist has some many CGI that it made it
so unrealistic and unconvincing. Some of the CGI scenes look so unreal
that it looks like a view from a video game. Horror movies should make
the viewers get scared by its realism, however, Poltergeist failed. At
first, I was pretty satisfied for the first half, then the second half
ruined it with tons and tons of CGI. CGI shouldn't even exist in the
horror genre, because it's really unnecessary. Except for Silent Hill
which has a lot of CGI, but at least it's used in the right place. But
Poltergeist can stand on its own without CGI.

When I was watching the movie, I have mixed feelings. The movie is just
unpredictable, and it's not in a good way. I really like how the
director handles the part where Poltergeist could have ended but
didn't, but then the real ending is just so abrupt and I thought it
could have been better since the movie already wanted itself to have
more. (It's really hard to describe without spoiling it out.)

I found that the acting was decent and thought that the family is quite
convincing and not overly clich√©d. However, I didn't really like the
little girl. Even though she's like 5 or 6, has reactions toward ghosts
are just stupid. I like the boy the most because he, at least, feels
real which he actually behave like most people would behave. 

So overall, I feel that the Poltergeist remake isn't as bad as many
people thought, to me it could have a 6.1 on IMDb instead of a 5.0. It
has what a horror movie should have, except for the CGI and I like the
while tension throughout the movie. The movie could be better but I
think the Poltergeist is still better than most horror movie remakes in
history. I can still enjoy at least 60% of the movie if I'm going to
re-watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I heard that a new Poltergeist movie was being made, I
started to wonder how could someone try to remake such a wonderful
classic, how could someone think they could make something better than
that? When I read (here) that Sam Raimi was the producer, I was still
skeptical, but created some hopes about this movie. Unfortunately,
watching it, those hopes were shattered.

The original movie is about 3 main things: Family, the poltergeist
phenomena, and horror. This new version has almost none of that! In the
original you have a family in perfect harmony, all loving each other,
they have a prosper life, and all is well for years until the events
start to happen. When they do, the entire family is involved, and all
of them helps to find answers and rescue the missing family member,
through the horror that is happening. Their love for each other is what
protects them, and is their main weapon against the poltergeist.
Important scenes, like Diana showing Steve the chair moving in the
kitchen, or their kiss before she goes to "the other side", are all
missing in this one. You have very little warning to what is to come,
unlike the original one, and the mother and the father didn't saw
anything unusual before their girl disappeared. I wonder how they found
out that she went inside the closet, since nothing had happened there,
except that they found her little "pigcorn" there. If I was the father,
I would be terrified that my youngest was missing, and would call the
police immediately, because the only "weird" thing I saw would be the
voice on the TV, that could easily be my imagination (the only new TV
the world that does no show "no signal" in a black screen, it still
shows static like the 80's TVs). But not they, they almost didn't care
that she was missing. Actually, in a scene, the father says that they
have too many kids, and the mother says they should have stopped at 2.
After a weird dialogue about not calling the police, they call
paranormal researchers, and the movie gets a little better. Still, no
good explanation about what a poltergeist is, about what is happening,
and how to rescue the girl. And still, no horror, no family love.

Besides that, I believe that the creators of this movie wanted to put
some of the important scenes of the original one in it, but changing
them so it don't look like a totally rip-off. They did that, but not
catching the essence of those scenes. Examples: you have the clown,
actually lots of weird clowns, but only for a few seconds in total, and
it was very lame. The girl is not sucked into the closet trying to
avoid it with all her strength, instead she walks into it willingly.
The place was a cemetery, but only a secret to the family, everybody
else knows it and is happy living there. Happy family having a
breakfast together doesn't exist here, they prefer to fight over an
iphone. Also, no spirits passing trough the living room. Moving objects
by itself are very rare, only the clowns, a baseball, some comic books
and a chair, nothing of that all-alive kids bedroom.

So, to conclude, in the end we have a movie that does not explain the
poltergeist phenomena, the family is totally dysfunctional (the only
one who seems to care is the boy for his younger sister), and no horror
at all, I was more scared watching Mama (2013) then this one. This
movie looks more like a kids adventure (not my words), then a horror or
paranormal movie. It is not a bad movie, the actors are OK (could have
been better), there are some good scenes (like the drone going to the
other side), and people who got scared watching those Paranormal
Activity movies will be terrified watching this. My vote for it is a
not solid 7, I was gonna give it a 6, but the closet scene with the
power drill gave the extra point to it. So, if you want to watch a good
movie about the poltergeist subject, go watch the original. If you need
to kill time in a lazy afternoon, watch this one. If you want to get
scared, the original one is the only movie that still does that for me.
<|_=00=_|>
So first of all I didn't see the original one and I'm not that kind of
person who can watch any horror saying oh it was nothing, I didn't get
scared. But now I really have to say that the most of the movie was not
scary at all.

Instead of making long mysterious moments when you are starting to
cover your eyes because you know that something really creepy will
happen they just made big fancy moments. And no I'm not talking about
jump scares even those jump scares had no effect. They were trying to
make long scary moments too but it just failed (except only one scene).
It was more about big fancy overdone scenes. Which is OK but not in a
horror movie. So for me it was more like a kind of fantasy-scifi stuff,
not a horror.

The whole atmosphere of the movie was not what you expect from a good
horror. Most of the times it was not creepy, not dark and the actors
didn't really feel what is happening also it made some very unrealistic
moments, sometimes I felt I'm in a comedy.

Just the whole movie didn't take it seriously what happened...usually
when a family finds out that something is not OK with their house or if
something weird is happening to their kid they panic a bit more... (The
little boy made the best, most realistic job at acting btw...)

So after all for me it failed as a horror. BUT I still gave 7 stars
because if I'm looking at it as a not too serious fantasy thing then it
was quite entertaining. Not what I expected, but not bad.
<|_=00=_|>
Please let me begin by stating that I love the original movie; it is
easily among my most favourite ever movies. For this reason, I decided
to view this remake as it's own movie, trying not to compare it to the
original. Being a fan of paranormal movies, and seeing the trailer for
this movie, I had hoped that I was in store for a scarefest. By the
time that the credits were rolling, I had realised that what I had seen
was something quite different to what was advertised. 

The trailer shows that this is a very scary movie whereas, however
desensitised I may be to the majority of scary movies, I feel that it
is a lot less scary than it could have been. Please do not get me
wrong, a good portion of the movie was scary, tension-building or/and
interesting but then far too much of the movie was comical. For me, the
movie felt almost like a ramped-up Ghostbusters.

This doesn't mean to say that the movie was not entertaining, I was
very entertained and I felt that the movie was good, just not
necessarily what was advertised. 

I thought Sam Rockwell was largely mis- cast as the father of the
family and felt that his role needed a much more commanding
performance. It would have been interesting to see somebody like
Christian Bale in that role. Rosemarie DeWitt did well as the mother of
the family. Kennedi Clements performance was excellent and beyond her
years as Madison and Kyle Catlett possibly shone as the star of the
cast with his showing in the part of Griffin. Saxon Sharbino was just
annoying and unnecessary as the elder daughter. 

I loved the effects that were used as nothing looked too unbelievable.

Overall, this is a solid movie with a good script but expect to chuckle
more than jump.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all i'm a huge fan of horror films, so when i heard about a
remake to the Poltergeist i was so excited and couldn't wait to see the
trailer which actually surprised me. And I've went to the movies
expecting to watch the old movie but with a few changes.

The thing is , they changed A LOT! So if you have the same expectation
well it's not what you think it is. The pace of the movie was really
fast in a good way but the only problem was the build up and that it
lacked the feelings between the family.

The Scare factor: It basically relies on jump scares but i have to
admit they were perfectly done and well timed . There were some clowns
in a box which were sort of creepy. and also some edge-of- your seat
moments. It's similar to "Insidious" and James Wan effects. So yes when
it says from the producer of "Evil Dead" you know what to expect, But
it won't prevent you from sleeping.

The acting was fine, CGI was okay and there were wonderful visuals. The
3D was mainly used for the jump out of your seat moments in a gimmicky
way (Throwing stuff at the audience).

In the end, I had fun watching Poltergeist and it delivers a few
thrills,Sam Raimi did a great job producing this film,for Gil Kenan
(Director of Monster House) i think it's a huge step forward. But don't
go in with very high expectations or you will be disappointed. Although
you should watch it if you're a true horror fan and you're looking for
some good scares.
<|_=00=_|>
If POLTERGEIST (2015) had not used the title and declared itself a
remake of POLTERGEIST (1982), I doubt that the people connected with
the 1982 original could have successfully sued the people of the 2015
movie for plagiarism. Yes, it's the same basic story - but with so many
new twists and innovations that it is also a new movie.

It's a haunted house - but not a new house. There was a previous
occupant (but this aspect is not further explored, unfortunately).
There's a family moving in, named Bowen, not Freeling, with a little
girl, named Madison, not Carolanne. The parents do not smoke marijuana.
The haunting attracts the attention of a TV exorcist, not a magical
munchkin. And this new narrative includes such modern contrivances as
smart phones, cellphones, laptops, and flat screens. Just so you know.

The Bowen family, dad (Sam Rockwell), mom (Rosemarie DeWitt, of Rachel
Getting Married, and United States of Tara), and teen daughter Kendra (
Saxon Sharbino, of Touch, and I Spit On Your Grave), nervous young son
Griffin (Kyle Catlett, of whom we can expect much), and little girl
Maddy (Kennedi Clements) move into a housing development not far from
Molene, Illinois. The move was begun when dad was hired by John Deere
tractors but somehow he was laid off before he even arrived, so they
arrive unemployed. The house, however, is very nice, the previous
occupant made sure it was wired up for cable and internet.

Near the house are high tension power lines and some anomalies hinting
at static electricity are blamed on that. Then we are told that the
housing development is on the site of a cemetery - and not so old that
all the graves were long forgotten and neglected, no sir, families
still visit the graves at their new location. Except, of course, ....

Before long, there's serious Trouble, and a professor of the
supernatural (Jane Adams) is called in to help with a small crew of
high-tech assistants, and soon enough a cranky TV cleanser of cursed
houses (Carrigan Burke, of Mad Men) shows up to lend his expertise.

Now I would like to point out the obvious defect in both the 1982
original and this remake. Leaving the coffins in the ground and moving
only the headstones is a scam so transparent that it's a wonder someone
wasn't arrested the first day. Moreover these houses have basements -
considerably deeper than a grave (and the 1982 movie included an
outdoor swimming pool). And, finally, if building over a cemetery
caused any sort of haunting, then Paris would be one big chamber of
horrors.

This 2015 version has new twists, surprises, and special effects. This
makes the original seem a tad pale (although I miss the musical theme
of the 1982 version).
<|_=00=_|>
To most people, Poltergeist is a remake of the 1982 Stephen Spielberg
classic. Personally, I've never seen the original, as I became a Horror
fan during my late teens and have never been able to connect to the
classics (excluding Freddie and Jason). So to me, the 2015 version was
the first ever encounter with the brand.

Reading the plot synopsis would have you expecting a regular Ghost
Story sub-genre film, with several jump-scares and terrifying ghosts
(hopefully living up to Asian standards). However, Poltergeist's
perhaps most impressive feature is that the "ghosts" (quite frightening
as they might be, albeit mediocre and no more than some professional
makeup work) receive very little screen time (perhaps 3 seconds
altogether). The film is scary and disturbing due to the story and
presented scenarios, without relying on scenes which appeal more to the
human physiology than the human mind. In this day and age, succeeding
in creating a film that is scary without using jump-scares or heavy
makeup/CGI effects is quite an achievement, one that screenwriter David
Lindsay-Abaire and director Gil Kenan have definitely earnt.

The story describes a family of 5 characters (two hardworking parents,
one spoiled teenager, one anxious 8-9 year old and one adorable 5 year
old) who move into a new house. Unbeknownst to them, the house is built
on burial grounds, and the spirits aren't too happy about it. Corny as
it may sound, bare in mind that this plot originated in the early 80's.
At the time, electrical disturbances, moving objects and a young child
communicating with ghosts were all fairly new ideas, and the 2015
version presents them beautifully. The characters are all very likable,
excluding the annoying middle son whose anxieties simply feel
exaggerated and over the top. The acting is not half bad (by the entire
cast), especially Kennedi Clements as little Madison (young talent
never seizes to impress me).

All in all, Poltergeist 2015 is living proof that when done right - a
good Horror film doesn't need to stoop down to using cheats and "boo!"
moments. Most of the fear sensation is achieved by making the audience
use their imagination, not unlike when reading a scary book. This is
definitely not the scariest film to watch, as it's even suitable to
certain children, but that's what I find to be so impressive about it.
Fans of the original classic would probably hate it on account of it
being "untrue to the source", but actual Horror fans would probably
appreciate it for what it is: a scary film that is fun to watch.
