
I was luckily able to catch a screening a few weeks ago here in
Houston.

As an avid lover of Wall-E, I felt Pixar could never reach those
heights again.

I was wrong.

UP's story will probably seem peculiar at first glance. An old man as a
protagonist? It definitely blew my expectations. The first 5 minutes
demolished every other Pixar feature just because it was the first time
I cried in a theater.

This just shows how much heart there is to the movie. I really don't
want to get into specifics because of spoilers but the movie literally
has everything.

Amazing visual effects.

Amazing sound.

Hilarious comedy.

Breath taking action.

Heart.

All those combined equal something special. Today's movies like to blow
you away with gimmicks, Pixar is different. Each movie shows soul and
UP definitely has it.

I can't wait until it comes out so I can see it in 3d, im bringing
everybody.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to get a ticket to a special pre-release screening
of Up at Pixar studios in Emeryville, organized by the San Francisco
Film Society. After a hour-long reception in the atrium of their
beautiful main building we went through some rigorous security (metal
detectors!) and were treated to an hilarious short (Partly Cloudy) and
Pixar's new high water mark, Up.

My favorites to date have definitely been Wall-E and the Incredibles,
and Up is another slightly-left-of-center masterpiece. The emotional
impact of the beautiful, wordless summation of Carl's life that opens
the movie is the bass note that resonates through the whole film and is
at least as affecting as the scene in Wall-E when he holds his own
hands while watching Hello Dolly. The rest of the movie, of course, is
breathtaking on just about every level, especially the tactile quality
of all the characters and textures and the completely realized weather
effects and action scenes. With no "new" technical milestones (fur in
Monsters, Inc., water in Finding Nemo, realistic camera effects in
Wall- E), the design is the main focus, from the hilariously stylized
characters to the amazing setting of the tepui.

As the associate producer who participated in the Q&A following the
movie pointed out, the past three Pixar movies have not been easy sells
to their parent company Disney (they'll be back in familiar territory
with Toy Story 3 and Cars 2), but Pixar's commitment to inventive,
story-driven films continues to pay off here. All of the good press is
true, and I can't wait to see it again. Thanks for staying true to
yourselves Pixar!
<|_=00=_|>
UP, Pixar's latest animated feature, is just delightful. But how do you
go about extolling the movie's virtues without giving away its
surprises? Like the kid at the beginning of the movie, you don't try to
conquer the immovable force; you work around it.

The one clue I can give away  because it's the movie's heavily hyped
premise  is that Carl Fredrickson, a gruffy old widower (voiced with
gruffy old charm by Ed Asner), miraculously inflates enough balloons to
use his house as an aircraft. Soon, he finds himself reluctantly
sharing his ride with a short-attention-spanned kid named Russell.

I'll also mention a couple of other items that can gauge your potential
interest in the movie. One is a gag that is a take-off on a famous
painting  perhaps too inside of an inside joke, but typical of Pixar's
cheery attempts to appeal to viewers of all ages.

Also, part of the plot involves Carl's long-held wish to meet a
Lindbergh-type adventurer named Charles Muntz (Christopher Plummer!).
This is another in-joke that's even vaguer than the first one. Cartoon
historians know that Walt Disney started in the cartoon biz by creating
Oswald the Rabbit for producer Charles Mintz, who then greedily stole
the rights to Disney's creation. This gives you a pretty good idea
where the ostensible hero Muntz stands in the scheme of things.

Beyond that, I can only offer you some enticing clues about the
characters. There's a dog who's the leader of his pack and in menacing
beyond measure, until he opens his mouth and gets one of the movie's
biggest laughs. There's a huge, awkward bird that is a big laugh-getter
at first. Then she becomes a real enough character that  at least in
the audience I was in  when she's injured, she elicits screams of
fright worthy of Bambi's late mother.

There's surprising, heartfelt emotion, vivid imagery (you can almost
touch the landscapes and skies), and a music score by Michael Giacchino
that's practically a character in the movie  particularly in a
thoughtful montage that takes Carl from childhood to widowhood.

There aren't many (or at least not enough) live-action movies that are
engrossing as this cartoon. Pixar Studios has gotten to be one of those
movie icons that shouldn't even have to deliver a premise to get funded
anymore. The moneymen should just shut up, hand over the money, and
trust they'll get a product that will appeal to everyone.

UP is only the second Pixar feature to get a PG rating, only for mildly
intense imagery and action  nothing off-color in the least. Again, if
you can handle "Bambi," this film should be a breeze.
<|_=00=_|>
Carl Frederickson (Ed Asner) has lived a long life, but dreams of
adventuring to South America. He wants to spend his remaining days in
his home, but new high-rises are being constructed around it. After a
chance accident, Carl loses his home, and is set to be taken into a
retirement home. Unhappy with this idea, the former balloon salesman
ties thousands of balloons to his house and simply floats away, en
route to his dream adventure. Except, he is not alone  young
"wilderness explorer" Russell (Jordan Nagai) inadvertently shows up in
mid-air, and Carl sees no other choice but to bring the boy with him.

The fact that this plot line is even relevant enough to get made into a
movie is more than enough reason to praise Up. Ever since Toy Story,
Pixar has consistently delivered the most radically original and unique
ideas for animated films, and live action films. Sure, not all of them
are as amazing as others (Cars is quite simply stale compared to the
likes of Ratatouille and WALL-E), but there is something brilliantly
imaginative and exciting going on at the studio, and Up is no
exception.

Coming off the breakthrough of WALL-E, I was not expecting the same
reaction to Up, but I was more than just pleasantly surprised. The film
is hilarious, heartfelt, moving and depressing all at once. This may
sound like it is an issue, and that the film has a problem holding its
ground with its tonal structure. But instead, it handles it quite well;
splitting the film into quadrants and allowing the themes and plot line
to coincide with whatever emotional response the filmmakers are going
for. And while there is plenty for young children to enjoy and take
from the film, it is the older audience that will get the biggest
reaction from it. There is a lot going on in the film, but it never
loses its speed and never loses control of what it wants to say and do.
It knows exactly where it wants to be and when. And where other recent
Pixar films have failed (specifically in their lengthy runtimes and
frequent need to drag themselves out), Up does not. It practically
blasts its way through its beginning, all the way up to its ending,
with time left to spare.

What makes Up work so well, much like WALL-E before it, is the focus on
very few characters. Where WALL-E spent the majority of its runtime
primarily on Earth with its main character, a love interest and a
cockroach, Up spends its majority with Carl, Russell, a "bird" named
Kevin and a talking dog named Dug (voiced by co-director Bob Peterson).
It does allow for more characters to enter in later on, but the focus
never strays from these main characters. Some may say the film is
trying to tell multiple stories, but as the film progresses, it is
clear it is telling one story  the tale of a man who never experienced
what he wanted the most. The film builds up Carl's backstory heavily in
startlingly moving moments that surprisingly were surprisingly kept
rather secretive in the marketing for the film. We know from the very
first trailer that Carl is a fairly mean old man, but the film spends a
great deal of time to develop him into an emotional wreck of a man.

But the real success of the film is in its imagination and adventure.
While WALL-E is perhaps the most startlingly unique and original
animated picture of the last decade, Up still manages to pack in a lot
of uniqueness. But while WALL-E got caught up in its own
environmentally sound message, Up sticks with being an almost straight
adventure picture. It is frequently thrilling and exciting, and lets up
only for a few moments at a time. For such an older character, the film
really stuns with some of its fantastical ideas. Sure, it is obvious
this is a film that could only ever be done as an animated film, but
what it lacks in realism it makes up for in fun  something that has
been sorely missing from the movies for years. It came back for a short
while with the first Pirates of the Caribbean film, but the focus as of
late for any film has been on deeply conflicted, depressing narratives.
And while this film is struck with having some of the most depressing
scenes the year has seen so far, it never wallows in the sadness. It
throws the moments at you, and then quickly moves on. And as said
previously, the tonal shifts work excellently in Up's favour.

But of course, an animated movie cannot work without its animation.
While Up is not a breakthrough in the way other Pixar films have been,
it keeps with the tradition of still looking stunning and leading the
curve for computer animated films. It does look cartoony and
fantastical in many instances, but this only continues to work towards
it being even better. The locales are realistic looking; the dog fur is
near perfect. For me, watching Carl's facial hair gradually grow in as
the story moves along was simply amazing. The little details and minute
perfections have always been key to the Pixar films, and Up is no
different. Additionally, the 3D effects really add a layer to the film,
and bring the movie to life (unlike other recent efforts like Monsters
vs. Aliens and Bolt).

I cannot praise Up enough. Words cannot do justice for how excellent
the film is. Pixar continues to outdo itself year after year, even with
their subpar films. While each film has their own flaws, Up revels in
being as close to perfect as the company has been in years. I adored
every minute, and look forward to watching it again with an even bigger
smile on my face.

10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
If there's a list of great computer animation movies of all time, Pixar
would dominate most of the top positions. Great story, great voice
talent, great timing, great for all ages. It'd be hard to pick just one
above another and perhaps another viewing of Up may be in order to
figure out where I'd place it among so much stellar work.

Up is by far the most emotional human drama of any Pixar movies thus
far, very heavy, so much so if you're looking for pure fun with some
jaw-dropping chase and/or thematic scenes and no downer moments, Up may
not be for you. I saw it in a packed theatre of about a 65% adult, 35%
adult split audience and it's the only time I can remember being in ANY
animated movie where there was sniffles and watery eyes, and that was
within the first 10 minutes of the movie. There's an undercurrent of
life after losing a loved one in this movie, which I don't feel gives
anything away. It's pretty heavy subject matter, Pixar handles it, like
they do everything they touch, incredibly well, but it doesn't make it
any less sad to have the material threaded throughout much of the movie
you're reminded of it, but I suppose it's up to one's own
interpretation of loss and how to place it in your life that perhaps
will have an emotional effect on you.

Story is what makes a great movie great. Without story, you don't
really have anything, maybe some effects, some action, maybe some cute
or clever sight gags, maybe some laughs, hopefully some emotion, where
Pixar shines above all others in animation and over a good 99% of the
movies out there is they can intertwine it all and do it seemingly
effortless, which is an incredible feat. To do this in a few movies is
one thing, but Pixar has pretty much nailed this now for their entire
career of making movies, that's just simply unprecedented. 

I should note I saw the 3D version which, to be honest, didn't really
take the movie to the next level. One of the more well known syndicated
reviewers had said you're better off seeing the non-3D version on
screen, and I actually agree. The 3D glasses added little to nothing to
the movie except for an eye-strain headache later in the night. It
didn't take away from Up mind you, it just didn't add to it either. 

Up is a great movie either way you slice it and it should be noted, the
theatre I saw it in gave it a fairly loud round of applause at the end.
It's pretty rare these days that an audience applauds after a movie,
perhaps we as a society has become too jaded, or too just expecting of
the goods or feeling we're entitled to the entertainment. It's nice
when a movie hits on all cylinders and elicits such a range and
emotional reaction people who don't know each other in a packed room
all gasp, laugh, cry, and applaud together. Great movies however can do
that and Up is truly a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Viewed at the Festival de Cannes 2009 

The opening film of this year's festival, and the first animated film
ever to have this honour, Up is truly a film for all ages. The story of
the adventures of an old man and a young boy, a flying house tethered
to countless balloons, a long-lost (and mad) explorer, a giant bird
called Kevin and assorted 'talking' dogs gets funnier and more exciting
as it goes along.

This isn't slapstick humour, although there are some lovely visual
gags, but deeper, more thoughtful. At times Up is even touching and
poignant.

Visually, this is a treat and while I was sceptical about the use of 3D
to begin with, it is built into the story so seamlessly that it really
is worth the effort to seek it out. At the same time, I can't help
feeling the 2D version could be even better because the 3D glasses had
the effect of dimming the picture. The use of colour in the film is
especially noteworthy, with various palettes used according to mood,
character and phase of the story. Character voicing and music are also
spot on.

I have no connection with Pixar, Disney or the film whatsoever, even if
this review reads like a puff piece. The fact is, Up is an incredible
piece of cinema, was a big hit with a very demanding press audience,
and is worthy of your time and money.

Anyone who says animated films cannot amuse and entertain, while at the
same time delivering any kind of emotion, does not know what they are
talking about.

Up is so good I can now forgive Pixar for Cars!
<|_=00=_|>
If Pixar - as a studio - has any weakness, it's that they have no idea
how to make a bad film. Again and again they release entertaining
movies with not only a terrific sense of humor, but a level of
storytelling that has set a standard for today's films, animated or
otherwise. While I was obviously extremely excited to see Up, never did
I expect it - or, to be honest, anything else from this year - to reach
the level of quality of this year's first animated film, Coraline
(which, along with last year's Bolt and Wall-E, became one of my
favorite films of all time). Well, I have to say that I was pleasantly
surprised. Simply put, Up is a perfect movie.

Easily the most emotionally impactful portion of the entire film, the
first ten to fifteen minutes of Up are nothing short of beautiful.
Using little to no dialogue, the opening "montage" of this film tells
the story of Carl and his wife Ellie, and the wonderful life that they
share together. Carl is such a lovable character, that you feel for him
from the very beginning. Without trying to come off as cliché or
anything, you feel the joy that he feels, and when his wife passes
away, you feel his loss. By the end of the whole sequence, I was in
tears.

This movie is freakin' hilarious. Without a doubt the funniest film
that Pixar has ever made, each and every character in Up provides their
own bit of humor. Dug the dog (voiced by co-director Bob Peterson) is
especially hilarious every single time that he "opens his mouth", and
yet still proves to be a key part of this emotional roller coaster
ride. The movie also does a terrific job at making you feel a sense of
wonder, and you just buy into the adventure of these two characters.
Finally, I want to give a special nod to Christopher Plummer as the
famous wilderness explorer, Charles Muntz, who is easily my favorite
Pixar villain.

I love Up. Go see it now, as my review just can't do it justice. Not
only is it extremely entertaining, but also gut-bustingly hilarious,
and beautifully told throughout. To quote John Campea of
TheMovieBlog.com, "The only negative thing I have to say about this
movie is that it ended." The result is a film that's on par with Wall-E
and The Incredibles as my favorite Pixar movie to date (which, again,
is saying a hell of a lot, considering that they're two of my top 10
favorite films of all time) and while it may take a couple more
viewings to say for certain, I have no qualms with saying that Up is
one of the finest films I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Another crackling collaboration of
Pixar and Disney, and as expected, it is touching, funny, thrilling and
amazing to look at and watch. Only a step below Toy Story just because
it is not quite as ground-breaking, though the story is even better.

While I love technology and effects, I am first and foremost a story
guy when it comes to movies. This has as good of story as any film you
will see. My only caution is that it seems geared towards grown-ups,
not kids. The montage of Carl and Ellie growing old together is without
dialogue and will probably bore some kids. Their parents certainly
won't be bored; however, as it will resonate with most anyone over age
40 who hasn't taken the time to chase their childhood dreams.

No question, this film is a barrage of color and eccentric characters,
and can even be a bit frightening at times. Still, the key to this one
are the stories and quests of the elderly Mr. Fredrickson and the young
Russell, trying to earn his badge of honor. From the beginning, Disney
has always had a finger on the pulse of youngsters. Here, we aren't
given the usual Hollywood garbage of brainiac kids who make the adults
look stupid. Instead we are given a pudgy, slightly goofy kid just
trying to get his parents to take note.

Special kudos to Ed Asner for bringing Mr. Fredrickson to life ... in
good times and bad. He never goes overboard and is quite often
absolutely perfect. Christopher Plummer has a limited role as bad guy
Charles Muntz. Or is he really so bad? Cast aside by society, he has
spent his life searching for redemption.

I am not saying the kids won't enjoy, but I am saying make sure parents
and grandparents tag along. You will be entertained, delighted and
moved.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about Pixar? Amazing?? Perfect?? Got to see this at the
Cannes Film Festival in France (went on a trip with my family) and
Pixar gives us another instant classic: Up.

The movie focuses on 78-year old man Carl Fredrickson's (voiced by
Edward Asner) life who always had a dream of going on a journey to
South American to see the wilds of it. He buys thousands of balloons
just to attach it to his house to float up in the sky. So, he starts
with his journey up in the sky in his house with balloons attached to
it. Suddenly, he's not alone and somebody's at the door while flying,
it's a boy scout kid named Russell. He invites the boy with him on his
journey to South America.

Just brilliant and simple story-telling, beautiful visuals as usual
with Pixar, awesome voice work, funny and smart dialogue, beautiful
score once again by Michael Giacchino & very, very enjoyable
characters. Speaking of characters, the highlight of the film: Dug the
Dog. A sort of "robot" dog that will have you have you in a lot of
stitches each scene that dog is in and that was the case with me.
Simply, one of the funniest characters Pixar ever made. Pete Doctor,
one of the four Pixar directors (John Lassester, Andrew Stanton, Brad
Bird) who directed Monster's Inc (2001) needs and should get nominated
for his clever, genius and smart directing of this but if Stanton
didn't get the nods for (Finding Nemo and WALL-E) and Bird for (The
Incredibles & Ratatouille) which they should of been, then the Oscars
are making another HUGE mistake for not nominating this guy for this
movie.

Up is the funniest Pixar movie, funnier than the Toy Story movies, A
Bug's Life & Finding Nemo which were the funniest, in my opinion. The
movie is not just hilarious, it's emotional and sad at times. Like
WALL-E, it focuses on the character feelings but not as magical as
WALL-E. Still, Up is full of emotional, fun and hilarious proportions.
Your in for a BIG ride in this!! 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously, I'm convinced, Pixar is maybe the only movie studio that is
providing the best movies around. Who said that animated films can't be
considered real movies? Can't be considered an art form? Up is the
latest creation from Disney and Pixar, after last year's smash hit
WALL-E, I felt like they couldn't at all top themselves and they did it
again with this incredibly charming story. Admittingly from the
trailer, I wasn't sure this story was going to work as well, but I got
the opportunity to see Up this week and was just totally blown away by
it's story, animation and characters. The thing I adore about these
movies that Disney and Pixar are creating is that they're not just for
the kids, but the adults as well, this is something that I could even
see an adult seeing by themselves. This story doesn't insult kid's
intelligence and is extremely entertaining for anyone to enjoy, to go
through this adventure with an old man who just wanted to make his wife
happy.

Carl Fredricksen, a quiet young boy, meets Ellie in her clubhouse,
discovering together they share the same interest in exploration as
their hero, famed explorer Charles F. Muntz. Ellie expresses her desire
to move her clubhouse to Paradise Falls in South America, a promise she
makes Carl keep. Carl and Ellie fall in love, wed and grow old together
in the old house where they first met. Ellie dies of old age before
they can take their trip, leaving Carl living alone in their home.
After a tussle with a construction worker over Carl's broken mailbox,
the court orders Carl to move into a retirement home. Carl comes up
with a scheme to keep his promise to Ellie, and creates a makeshift
airship using thousands of helium balloons which lift his house off its
foundation. Russell, a Wilderness Explorer trying to earn his
"Assisting the Elderly" badge, has stowed away on the porch after being
sent on a snipe hunt by Carl the day before. After a storm throws them
around for a while, they find themselves across a large ravine facing
Paradise Falls. With their body weight providing ballast allowing Carl
and Russell to pull the floating house, the two begin to walk around
the ravine. As they walk towards Paradise Falls, Russell finds a
colorful tropical bird which he names Kevin, not realizing that the
bird is actually female. They later run into a dog with a translating
collar named Dug. They discover Dug's owner is Charles Muntz, who has
remained in South America for several decades to find a bird like Kevin
in order to restore his reputation after bringing back a skeleton and
being called a fraud. Though Carl is initially thrilled to meet his
hero, when he realizes that Muntz is after Kevin and will kill to
obtain her, Carl takes steps to save the bird and escape from Muntz.

Up is seriously the best movie I have seen so far this year, it's
actually one of my favorite movies of all time, I can't tell you how
much I enjoyed this film. Wither it was the fun and charming story
between Carl and Russell, the crazy bird Kevin, or the story that
nearly killed me in laughter, the dogs that have collars that make them
talk. I don't remember the last time a movie that made me laugh so hard
that my stomach hurt, it also made me tear up and smile. If someone
ever tells you that an animated film can't be considered a real movie,
just show them Up. I absolutely adore this movie, can't wait for it to
come out on DVD and watch it again. This is a perfect family film,
actually scratch that, it's a perfect film, the animation is
incredible, the characters are lovable and the story is magical. Up is
going to be a film to be remembered for all time, great movie, go see
it.

10/10
