
The lower ratings on this film are too harsh. This is actually a sweet
comedy where two individuals who initially repel each other grow to
like each other. The added touches are the children in this film, who
are not only hilarious but also bring out the parental qualities in
Drew and Sandler's characters. 

The holiday setting in this movie is also fantastic and adds a bit more
quality to the film. The backing singers who appeared every now and
then made me chuckle. The various activities that you find on a 5 star
holiday are all here, which really makes you want to visit this resort.

Overall it was really enjoyable to watch, I would highly recommend it
<|_=00=_|>
If you can believe it, we loved it. Don't care what the critics say,
obviously. But you know why they hate it. Stubbornly suburban, vaguely
sexist, more like sketch comedy lacking a finely crafted story arc, and
definitely an unashamedly traditionalist pro-family view of "boys need
dads and girls need moms." So that's Sandler's POV. You can go to the
art house to see witty, urbane and progressive films (and we do) or to
the multiplex to see the endless parade of horror, action, YA and/or
comic book dumb dumb fare. (and we don't) But I'm still glad there's
room in this world for Adam Sandler movies. Because they're funny and
human.
<|_=00=_|>
I truly loved this film. It was heart warming, fun and had me laughing
several times. Yes, it's totally predictable but that can sometimes be
OK. You know what you are going to get, the freaky children and the
inevitable romance. I like these two when there together and I like
Sandler despite what the critics say. He is someone you can relate to.
A great movie to chill out, relax or just something to make you happy. 

The children's antics were annoying at times and the transformation
from tomboy to beauty was slightly abrupt but I did like the the way
that each parent dealt with the issues of teenage boys and girls,
especially the constant 'self service' that the teenage boy was
participating in while imagining his babysitter. After all, most blokes
can remember that time in their life.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to this movie a little leery because of the reviews and because I
haven't loved all of Adam Sandler's movies. I was very surprised to
find that I laughed nearly the whole movie. I thought Adam and Drew
Barrymore did a great job together. All of the supporting cast was
hilarious, especially Kevin Nealon and his "wife," and Terry Crews, who
cracked me up every single scene he was in. Some of the scenes were a
bit emotional, and even these scenes teared me up a little bit, thought
all the acting was well done. The Africa setting was beautiful and the
scenes in the hotel were gorgeous.

All in all I'd highly recommend this to anyone who wants a few laughs
and a feel good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After a couple of very bad recent movies, finally Adam Sandler did what
he is doing the best. A family movie with kids, holiday and Drew
Berrymore! it is almost impossible for a movie to be disappointing with
these two. The jokes were funny, the kids were acting really good,
musics were great. I saw the movie with my family and we all enjoyed
(as Sandler fans) movie. His a few last attempts were really bad movies
but this time he got it right again. And that's why I feel sad about
all the bad reviews this movie has. Because some people are hating it
just because they didn't like Adam Sandler's last movies, and they are
ready to be automatic haters. Well if you like Adam Sandler (at least
his 50 first dates, click era) you'll love this movie. I also loved the
parts they used from earlier movies
<|_=00=_|>
I think Adam Sandler is a smart, talented entertainer and I also enjoy
Drew Barrymore and the two together is a special treat. I also admire
these actors because, for the most part, they never seem to make it
into the scandal sheets. Sandler has been in some real "dogs," and I
tell myself it was just for the money.

After reading some of the reviews on this site, I almost didn't go to
see "Blended," expecting toilet humor and fart jokes and lots of sexual
innuendo. Fortunately, I went anyway, and THOROUGHLY enjoyed it. This
movie has very little to offend, strikes some very deep feelings and
highlights some of the real challenges of single parenting. ANY parent,
single or not can relate to a lot of the situations that arise.

The comedy is just right, without being slapstick or over the top. The
touching moments come sometimes when you least expect them, and while
sure to bring a tear, the movie doesn't milk the drama. The scenery is
gorgeous. The one-liners and timing are perfect. For me, the film never
dragged, and while it has an optimistic ending, everything isn't all
sewn up in a happily-ever-after-scenario. We know that, if these were
real families, there would be more bumps in the road, more laughs and
more lessons to be learned.

This is a good family movie--not much to cover your kids' ears
over--and a great movie for anyone who has been a parent, and
especially anyone who has tried to enter the dating/new relationship
stage after the death or divorce of a spouse.

Go see it!!
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for the Sandler of 15 years ago, or the scoop of
septic that the current comedic "geniuses" have to offer (Rogen,
Attepow, etc.,) then stay home and watch for umpteenth time the
"hilarious" back and forth between Franco and Seth in This Is Then End.

For Blended is reasonable, and funny and OK for older kids, as some of
them are facing the same issues that the kids portrayed here are. Adam
plays a widow, Drew a divorc√©e, just working and trying to raise their
kids the best way they know how. Meeting for the first time on a blind
date, they manage to say and do as much as they can to turn off the
other, not that are bad people, but more that they are so unsure of
themselves after being on their own so long. 

Yeah the logic is more pretzelian than real, they find themselves on
the same African Safari vacation that Sandler's boss had set up for
himself and Drew's business partner. Thrown together, the two adult
characters put forth their best efforts to make the vacation work for
their kids and end up making it work for each other.

There is some mildly crude humor, but a lot of it is gentle fun, some
of it predictable, some laugh out loud funny.

My family agreed that that crazy fool Terry Crews stole the show! And
the rest of the theater agreed, because as soon as his face flashed on
the screen everyone started laughing before he had even started one of
several hilarious routines, sort of playing like the Greek chorus. 

Granted, it's not a 10, but it is way better than the 5 that is
currently showing. I give it a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
Ignore the critics, this movie is great. Really sweet. Hilarious. Adam
Sandler has grown a lot over the years and the critics should give him
break.

Loved the setting. Wonderful one liners! Drew and Adam did an amazing
on the movie.

Guys and girls and even kids will enjoy it. The kids in my screening
were quoting lines from the movie before we even left the Theater.

See it and you will give your belly a good laughter exercise. Good date
movie too and girls night out. Heck the guys will enjoy it too.

The writing is incredible! I want to visit the resort it was shot at. 

If you are looking for a feel good movie, with great one liners, Cherry
on top due to Drew and Adam Sandler's presence, see this.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow,I was expecting to bash this movie,but was I wrong.The movie
'Blended' is actually a good movie.I will not spoil the movie for
you,but I will say I am still surprised it was good.When I was sitting
watching the movie,and I laughed,I was quite surprised.This is yet
another Adam Sandler movie.I have recently hated all of Sandler's new
movies.I despised 'Grown Ups',and hated 'Grown Ups 2'.Those movies were
terrible.'Jack and Jill',don't get me started on that garbage.Expecting
to be angry at this movie,I had very little hopes of this movie being
good.I watched it as a final chance for Sandler to redeem himself from
his previous disasters.Luckily,I ended up enjoying this movie and kept
turning to my friend,looking at him like are we seriously
laughing.Overall,a huge comeback for Sandler and meaning this movie is
7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A bland movie! My wife and I drove out of town to one of the last
drive- ins in our area. The Drive-In gets the B movies. Sandler makes
many B movies. Sandler's funny days of Happy Gilmore are far behind
him. The last good movie Sandler made was Anger Management. Blended is
an example of Sandler's stalled career. The material is dated, and
stale. Whatonce was shocking or over the top for Sandler is now
redundant material! Embarrassed, overly stupid, and weird situations is
all of Sandler's comic delivery. Blended is a cutesy love story with a
few laughs. Watchable movie, but noting special. Blended would be the
second feature in the Drive Inn after the main feature is shown. If the
out of town drive-in had a double feature. Five stars out of ten.
