
I understand it may flatter US patriotism, or recall memories to those
who remember the events and I don't even dispute Affleck's directorial
and acting skills. However, this is a completely superfluous, empty and
desperately predictable movie. The historical inaccuracy has been
pointed out by several other reviews: no, things didn't happen that
way, the Canadians deserve much more credit in that operation than this
portrayal ever shows. Notwithstanding the role of the US in sustaining
a puppet dictatorship during the Shah and actively interfering in a
sovereign country's domestic politics for decades prior to the events.
But this is only a secondary concern: historical accuracy is not the
most important factor for a fiction, even when it's based on actual
events. What I dispute is how incredibly shallow and predictable the
storytelling is: clich√© anonymous US CIA antihero agent with issues at
home goes to a dangerous place, saves innocent lives, takes risks
against orders, comes out victorious to reunite with his family. Who on
Earth cares, seriously? And no, the fact that it's based on historical
events - and therefore you can't argue with history - is not an answer
precisely because the script takes so many liberties with the events. I
don't care about the liberties taken with history but I care about the
ability to portray convincingly the complexity of human emotions and
relationships. There is none here. And make no mistake, a fictitious 2
min car chase at an airport is the closest you ll get to see some
emotions (ie. anguish at being killed by the revolutionary guards). The
characters come out of a cardboard factory, they have zero critical
self-reflection about their own role in interfering with a foreign
country's domestic affairs, total solidarity with each other and pure
love for their partners. This is a Disney version of human psyche, a
dishonest and partial historical account and a debauchery of time,
energy and money ill spent. Affleck is an able actor and I hope will
prove more convincing in his future efforts as a director, but what
really baffles me is not the mediocrity of this film, it's the
uncritical enthusiasm of so many for it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie. The story, acting, pacing, editing, etc. was
just fantastic. Affleck's directing was solid, and the suspense will
keep you entertained right through to the last seconds. I loved it. 

It did have one irritating thing, though, kind of a big one. It pointed
most of the accolades to Affleck's character and the CIA. This really
was not true. It was Ken Taylor and the Canadians who really pulled
'the Canadian Caper' off so successfully.

"When Taylor heard a few years ago that Mendez had sold movie rights to
his book (which, to be fair, is much more generous than the movie about
Canada's role), "I said, 'Well, that's going to be
interesting.'...."The movie's fun, it's thrilling, it's pertinent, it's
timely," he said. "But look, Canada was not merely standing around
watching events take place. The CIA was a junior partner."

"The old postscript sent the message that, for political reasons,
Canada took the credit. A sarcastic kicker noted that Taylor received
112 citations. The clear implication was that he did not deserve
them."(Sept/Oct., 2012, thestar.com)".

So the USA does another revision on history here. I believe 'Argo' goes
this far. Yes, it's based on a true story - the movie does it's best to
allude that it sticks to technical accuracy. And it really does, in
some ways. Historical pictures of flag burners, rioters, gate climbers,
etc.. up against Argo film stills run by during the credits make it
seem that the facts were adhered to down to the tiniest detail. In
reality, it wasn't Tony Mendez or the CIA who were responsible for the
success of this operation; actually they were barely there. 

Since the movie premiered, Ben Affleck has added emphasis on the movie
postscripts since then that gives kudos to the Canadians' role. This
was after Ken Taylor politely complained, as a Canadian would tactfully
do. But Affleck did this only after pressure from Taylor himself.

I can understand the need to spice up events to make them as exciting
and entertaining as possible, don't get me wrong. But this film needs
to let the audience know that more explicitly than it does, even after
the changed postscripts.

Still, a really entertaining and riveting film, very well done, and
easily worth seeing. As a matter of fact, don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
A reasonably competent movies from a technical point of view, but in
other respects very misleading.

What I liked was Ben's restrained performance as the CIA field
operative, and fun to see John Goodman in a straight role, but
everything else was a bit lacking. Iran is an extraordinary, culturally
rich and diverse country, but it is portrayed as populated entirely by
thugs and fundamentalists, with the rest of the population invisible or
cowering victims. I'm not being an apologist for a state with poor
human rights and a dictatorial government - but it is not what is
portrayed in this movie.

The basic fact that for a short period several American consulate
workers were in hiding and were flown out under fake identities is
true, but a lot is missed out. They first hid in the British consulate,
but were moved to Canada House on British advice (as best as I can
glean from various Internet sources), and the whole operation was a
joint venture between at least three countries. What we get is a
'Yankwash.'

The film-makers have said that people forget that "this is a movie",
and deliberate latitude and creativity is necessary for entertainment
purposes to make it watchable and engaging. Okay, so if that is the
case then what is left is formulaic: bad guys do something bad -
maverick individual comes up with a daring plan - plan almost fails at
the last minute - car chase - everyone alright now!

I'm sorry, but I just don't buy the excuses. This is a lazy way of
film- making. The more accurate story could have been well told - with
acceptable dramatic liberties such as condensing number of characters,
timescales and even adding the (actually never happened) car-chasing-a-
jumbo-jet-bit as they finally flee - without having to rewrite history
t a degree that becomes offensive.

So, averagely enjoyable if it was fiction and a polished production
from a acting and technical point of view, but a desperately inaccurate
pastiche of what really happened - a great shame as the real story
would have been just as good, if not better for being real.
<|_=00=_|>
I was watching this movie with 2 friends and none of us said anything
until it was over. While I was watching it something was bothering me
but I didn't say anything because I thought the other two were into it,
Ben Affleck with a beard doing CIA stuff in 1980 Iran being a sort of
archetype of what an cool movie should be these days...

Anyway I kept my mouth shut, and when the movie ended I looked at my
two companions. They both seemed a little off, I couldn't tell if it
was indifference or confusion or flat out boredom. One thing was clear
though: this movie sucked.

First, at no point whatsover does one feel any connection and/or
sympathy for the main character. Ben Affleck makes the SAME FACE during
the entire movie, his eyes gazing in the distance and his mouth gaping
ever so slightly, giving him an expression vaguely similar to what I
imagine someone coming out of months of Electroshock Therapy would
have. 

I never saw how this 'acting' contributed to the 'character' in any
way. In fact, there is almost no character to speak of, and you'd
almost forget him if it weren't for the fact that he is in almost every
scene of the movie.

Second (Spoiler I guess), even thought it started with a cool premise,
the story unraveled poorly and I honestly didn't get the point. So
what, they spent the whole movie training, all of it to get through a 5
minute scene at the customs where nothing really happens and another
climatic 5 minute chase on the runway where clearly the car has no
chance of stopping the plane, and in fact it doesn't, so there, the
end? I mean, seriously?? 

I can only imagine that this movie has such a good rating because most
people haven't even bothered reviewing it. There was a bunch of other
stuff I wanted to complain about but that movie was so bland that I
forgot.
<|_=00=_|>
In a particular scene, one of the "hostages" (one of the escaped
Americans from the taken-over Iranian Embassy) is looking outside the
window of the safe house, and he sees, right on the street, a guy
getting shot... The guy looking out the window has a blank expression,
and this sums up the overall suspense and vibe of ARGO that, until the
last twenty minutes when the characters are trying to silently escape
through the airport, has little momentum and simply goes through the
motions.

The aspect about the fake film, that will provide a cover to save the
hostages, is rushed, and although Alan Arkin has funny lines, there are
very few obstacles for the characters to get that fake movie going...
One step to another, all the characters seem to sleepwalk through each
scene where people sit behind desks and talk to each other.

Affleck's directing style is good, it looks good, but his performance
is dull and listless... Much like those hostages that we are supposed
to feel for but, with their horrendously distracting 1970's wigs and
mustaches, they're just wallpaper in a wallpaper experience.

This is the most overrated movie of the last decade.
<|_=00=_|>
I am severely disappointed in this film for the main reason that we see
US movie makers twisting the truth so that they come out looking like
heroes. And I am not alone in this. The UK and French governments were
quite rightly upset by the movie saying that their embassies had
refused to help out the Americans in trouble. The UK embassy took the
refugees in at great risk and kept them there until the Iranian guard
was getting suspicious. Ben Affleck claims he had the refugees refused
because he wanted them to appear to be isolated would be funny if it
wasn't so clear that he actually wanted it to be the US who really
saved them. At least the movie makers did have the Canadian embassy
involved as it had been at the time. The movie should have said at the
start that the facts had been changed in the name of drama. Movie
makers have a responsibility when making movies based on the truth to
let people know what really occurred. When they don't they are actually
guilty of trying to change history and worse people believe what they
see on the screen. And lastly seeing the guards at the airport chasing
the jet in order to try and stop it was absurd. Why didn't they simply
shoot at it or have the Iranian air-force force the jet to land. A joke
of a movie so far removed from what actually happened and to say its
'based on the truth' really shows just how far the truth gets abused.
<|_=00=_|>
It could not be more islamophobic if it tried. I am not saying the
Iranian revolution was something pretty. It really wasn't. Here is a
list of the disturbing in the portrayal of Iran in Affleck's Argo:
-When the Iranian people spoke Farsi in the film there were no English
subtitles. If an American spoke farsi there magically appeared
subtitles. -Every single Iranian in the film was angry. This was the
only emotion they could express. According to Argo all Iranians are
hostile. -Showed no culture, not a single educated Iranian of there own
right. There was one "good" Iranian who was a housekeeper to the
Canadian ambassador. No character development at all, she serves her
purpose and leaves. Apparently fled to Iraqi cause thats going to end
well for her children. -The streets of Iran were made to look like the
streets of hell. The streets are shown with either one of these
characteristics 1. angry Iranian mob protesters who are in favour of
the Khomeini 2. militia terrorizing and murdering it own citizens
3.objectified Iranian dead bodies. Do yourself a favour and rent
Persepolsis (2007) written and directed by Iranian refugee and graphic
artist Marjane Satrapi.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe how this piece of garbage has been hyped. It's a
revisionist hunk of crap that only shows how out of touch Hollywood and
the American public really are. The main character, Tony Mendez, was in
Iran for 1 and half days. It was the Canadians who created the
background story. It was the Canadians who issued the passports. It was
Canadian ambassador Ken Taylor that took ALL of the risks. Yet, Ben
Affleck seems to think if you tell a lie long enough and to enough
stupid people, they'll believe it. After the fiasco that was U-571,
you'd think Hollywood would have the decency not to go about spreading
such misleading information. Apparently not. I'd give ARGO a zero if it
were possible. It's disappointing that it's nominated for an Oscar.
Argo - And Ben Affleck - You suck.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, I came into this movie with so-so expectations as the trailer
I saw in a different movie made me give myself a 50% chance to watch
it, up in the air if you will. But from the moment the movie began up
until the end, I was gripping for the characters the whole way, the way
movies should be.

The opening of the movie played a huge part in setting the tone of the
rest of the film. As I had no history or prior knowledge to the events
that transpired in Iran in the 1980s, the brief amount of a history
lesson was just enough to maintain my interest. Throughout the film,
there are times when I might have started to wander through long bouts
of dialog, but witty comments by the characters kept me entertained. By
the time the climax was about to hit, I was sitting on the edge of my
seat, biting at my fingers, awaiting their next move.

Well done Ben, well done.
<|_=00=_|>
Argo is the political thriller based on the 1979 Iranian hostage
situation in which 6 Americans were left to fend for themselves in the
centre of Tehran. CIA Operative Tony Mendez (played by Ben Affleck) is
sent into Iran to evacuate the Americans out safely under the cover of
being a film production crew working on a picture called 'Argo'.

The film is absolutely amazing and definitely one of the best films
I've seen in a long time, throughout 2012 and 2013 so far we have been
treated with some great films such as Skyfall, Django Unchained, Life
of Pi, Les Miserables, Zero Dark Thirty and more, but in my own
personal opinion Argo takes the bait as the best of them all. Proof is
present as it won 3 BAFTA's for best picture, best director and best
editing, also nominated for a further 8 Oscars in 85th Academy Awards.

The film is packed with a sense of threat, peril and intensity all
portrayed exceptionally well through the ensemble cast including Ben
Affleck (The Town), John Goodman (Big Lebowski), Bryan Cranston
(Breaking Bad), Alan Arkin (Edward Scissorhands) and Victor Garber
(Titanic). The ending is by far the most intense ending I have seen in
a long time, visually presented in such an astounding way.

Director Ben Affleck started out his auteur career after his
directional debut Gone Baby Gone became critically acclaimed, three
years later The Town came out with an Oscar nomination. Now 2 years on
we have Argo, Affleck's best film by far.
