
When I saw the trailer for this, I was pretty excited. I loved the
whole premise of the first one, and having a sequel opened up whole new
opportunities. I was excited when I saw all these famous characters
from history being mashed together, Al Capone, Napoleon Bonaparte,
Amelia Earhart, to name a few. 

I walked into the theater not expecting to much, but when I left I was
very happy with it. They handled every characters personality
beautifully, and the inside jokes were hilarious. I don't want to give
much away, but trust me, you'll laugh. It tackles many themes like, a
house divided cannot stand, the way to happiness is doing what you
love, don't dwell on the past, etc. For a family flick they handle this
jumbled cast of characters with complex personalities amazingly. They
threw away most of the characters from the first movie to make way for
the newer characters, which I didn't like that much, but how many
characters can you throw in a story to have it make sense?

This film is an amazing example of a movie made for kids and adults.
Kids will enjoy the silly humor, and the monkey. While adults will
laugh at the onslaught of in-jokes, and trust me, there's a lot.

All in all, this was a great movie, blew me away. The highlight for me
was Hank Azaria, that lisp kills me every time.
<|_=00=_|>
There's an old saying in Hebrew that claims that if you try and catch
as much as you can, you'll end up having nothing at all. After viewing
Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian, I can sadly say that
the same can be said when regarding this lesser sequel to the 2006
smash hit.

Even though most film critics despised the original movie, the first
Night at the Museum was actually one of my favorite films of that year.
For me, the film worked on two levels. First, by waking the inner-child
in all of us and making us feel the magic Ben Stiller's character Larry
experiences once the exhibits in his museum come to life in all their
glory in front of him. Second, by telling a very straight-out and heart
warming coming of age story of a grown-up divorced man who has to take
control of his life and get his act together (with the museum working
more as a metaphor of sorts). I also related to the additional
educational values the film had to offer, another theme I felt received
a lesser emphasis in the sequel.

In the second installment of the Night of the Museum series, much of
the initial magic is already lost from the get-go. We already know the
artifacts come to life and how, and the general feeling of suspense is
gone. To make things worse, the whole story feels convoluted and
unreal. We're expected to believe that Larry has turned from a no-good
night guard at the museum in the first film to this mega-successful
businessman in the second installment during the course of only a few
years (and after being a virtual nobody for the vast majority of his
life). I mean come on, Hollywood - Where did the charming loser from
the first film go so quickly? Stiller's Larry is hardly likable at the
beginning, and once he learns that his lovable exhibits/friends are
moving to the Smithsonian museum (after the Museum of Natural History
closed for technological renovation) things start happening so fast,
that his motives for leaving his comfortable job to help rescue his
friends are left undeveloped and unconvincing.

The main course of this sequel is of course the special effects created
by the two museum's re-animated exhibits, with the evil Egyptian
Kamunrah (The Simpson's Hank Azaria) acting as the main villain who
operates the evil Smithsonian exhibits who strive for world domination
yadda yadda yadda. Some effects are cute (Al Capone's gangsters brought
back to life in black and white, the heroes entering an old painting,
the Lincoln memorial rising from his chair, amongst others) and some
are once again undeveloped and underused. At times, it seems so much is
happening on the screen, that you don't really know where to look or
who to concentrate on. Many returning characters from the first film
are outrageously underused (including Robin Williams' Teddy Roosevelt
and Owen Wilson's Jedediah) and many comedians who are brought
specifically for the film contribute blink-and-you-miss-it
performances, including Ricky Gervais and Jonah Hill). The only true
contribution for the film is the lovely Amy Adams (Enchanted), who
portrays a fluffy re-animated Amelia Earhart who seems more lost than
ever.

To sum things up, I'd say that Night at the Museum: Battle of the
Smithsonian may have been cute at times, but it was mostly useless, as
it really didn't add any significant notion to the elements presented
in its predecessor. While that film felt like an instant classic to me,
this one felt more like a quick money-grab with a lot of missed
potential.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, it's been 3 years since we had the comedy hit Night at the
Museum, naturally they went for a sequel to either make more money or
spill the story for what it's worth. Eh, I pick all of thee above. But
surprisingly Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian was
actually a lot better then I had expected, in fact, I think I enjoyed
it much more then the first Night at the Museum. Now the first Night at
the Museum movie was alright, it didn't really thrill me, Ben Stiller
is praised so much as a comedic actor but I've only found him funny in
Zoolander. But when it comes to movies like Meet the Parents, There's
Something About Mary and Night at the Museum, it's usually the
supporting cast that carries the movie and he seems just like the same
character in every movie. Once again the supporting cast saves this
movie and makes it a great family film.

Larry Daley is now head of Daley Devices, a company he founded to
manufacture his inventions. These inventions, including the
Glow-in-the-Dark Flashlight, were created from his experiences as a
former night guard. He finds that the American Museum of Natural
History is closed for upgrades and renovations, and the museum pieces
are moving to the Federal Archives at the Smithsonian Institution in
Washington DC. On the last night, Larry meets the museum pieces such as
Teddy Roosevelt, Rexy the T Rex Skeleton, and Dexter the Monkey and
finds out that several exhibits, including Teddy, Rexy, the Easter
Island Head, and Ahkmenrah are not moving to The Smithsonian
Institution, the other exhibits will no longer be animated. The next
night, Larry gets a call from Jedediah, saying that Dexter stole the
tablet, and that Kahmunrah, Ahkmenrah's older brother, is attacking
them. Larry takes a plane to Washington and visits the National Air and
Space Museum, the National Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Castle to
find the Federal Archives.

Over all Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian is worth the
recommendation, I'd say a matin√©e if you want to see it with the
family. Hank Azaria puts a bit of a strange personality for Kahmunrah,
but he provides quite a few good laughs. Along with Owen Wilson and
Steve Coogan who are back as the cowboy and the roman soldier, great
chemistry right there. They have this scene that nearly killed me in
laughter, since they're so small they go 300 style in trying to stab
all the bad guy's feet, great style and homage to the war films. Amy
Adams pulls in a great performance that I feel is going to be over
looked as Amelia Earhart, she has that old school Hollywood look to her
and personality that was a perfect choice. There are some great moments
in this sequel but there are some really silly one's as well, so over
all I'd say it's worth the look, it's a good family film, but again
nothing too memorable.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The first "Night at the Museum" worked despite conventions for a few
reasons, but the main one was that it eased into its premise of museum
exhibits coming to life and didn't take it for granted like "Night of
the Museum 2: Battle of the Smithsonian" does. I'm actually surprised
the writers of the first film wrote this sequel, because Thomas Lennon
and Robert Ben Garant handle these characters like they're someone
else's creation and they can butcher them all they want. 

"Night at the Museum 2" sucks the magic out of the original and
overdoses on characters as well as meandering sarcasm and awkward
humor. Save some bright spots in character acting from a delightful and
plucky Amy Adams and some bright spots from Hank Azaria and Christopher
Guest, "Smithsonian" will disappoint most defenders of the first film
-- except kids and anyone else who'll bite on an outrageous premise.

Ben Stiller stars again as Larry Daley, only our beloved night security
guard has randomly become a mastermind of As Seen on TV products. That
decision alone completely destroys the continuity between this film and
the last, forcing Larry's story to be something totally different than
the single dad trying to be a role model for his son. Now son is
hacking into the Smithsonian Institute floor plans to direct his dad to
the location of the tablet that brings things to life at night. See the
Museum of Natural History is going digital and all the beloved
characters of the first film are shipped to the national archives in
DC, only that naughty monkey brought the tablet with him and so the
Smithsonian has come to life.

Our source of conflict is the Pharaoh at the Smithsonian, Kahmunrah,
played by Azaria doing his best Stewie Griffin impression, who wants
the tablet to unleash his army, so he gets help from Napoleon, Ivan the
Terrible (Guest) and young Al Capone. At least director Shawn Levy
realized the asset they had in Azaria and had him voice a couple other
key statues that come to life later on. Azaria's too good for this
film, really, but he plays at its level instead of pushing it and even
manages a few of the better laughs when he puts a major diss on Darth
Vader.

Then there's Amy Adams, the lone diamond in a sea of forced comedy and
excessive cameos. It might seem like loving Adams is the "it" thing,
but she brings the imaginative spirit sorely lacking in the film as
Amelia Earheart. Every time she speaks it literally feels like the film
gets more believable because she's such a convincing spirit. She also
gets to work her best Katherine Hepburn impression to boot.

But "Smithsonian" is more defined by its disappointments and synthetic
sequel material. Lennon and Garant try and include too many characters
between the old ones and the new ones and the film just feels chaotic.
It's like a contest to see how many new ideas of different things they
can bring to life from paintings and photos on the wall to historical
monuments in DC. 

Worst of all, it's completely rushed. Understood that we get the
coming-to-life premise and we aren't going to be surprised by it, but
they take all the fun out of it. Levy figures a shot a piece of the
statues of Amelia and Bill Hader's Col. Custer are adequate foreshadow,
but they're not. Daley just cons his way into the archives and the
story rockets right into the Smithsonian with a few quick facts about
what it is to provide context.

"Night at the Museum 2" does just about everything we used to be
terrified of sequels doing in the '90s -- overdoing it and diverting
from the core values that won some love for the original because that
film wasn't just about things coming to life.

~Steven C

http://moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
From the outset. I kept wondering how ordinary security guard schlub
Ben Stiller could so easily become an infomercial king, hawking glow in
the dark flashlights and earning gobs of money. Then I realized that
the screenwriters couldn't just have him start off as a security guard
at the museum again because people don't want to see the same thing
twice when they pay money for a sequel. Nonetheless, the infomercial
angle ends up being dropped like a hot potato and Stiller is back at
the museum just like in the original. This time he learns that his pals
at the Museum of Natural History are being shipped off to the basement
archives at the Smithsonian. To make matters worse, they have to deal
with some crazy Pharoah guy who needs to figure out a secret code that
will unlock a door to ancient Egypt where all of his nasty minions are
just waiting to get loose and wreak havoc upon an unsuspecting world.

There are moments in 'Battle for the Smithsonian' that feel like the
script was dispensed with and the action was completely improvised.
Take the scene with Stiller trying to break into the basement at the
Smithsonian, opposed by the security guard played by Jonah Hill. The
joke is that the security guard is a wuss and is easily dissuaded by
the more persuasive Stiller. And this is the problem for every
character in the film. They are all buffoons in one way or another and
carry no moral weight.

The antagonist is played by Hank Azaria who has a one note part as a
lisping Pharoah, Kahmunrah. He's joined by three villains from history:
Napoleon Bonaparte, Ivan the Terrible and a young Al Capone. The three
allies of the Egyptian have virtually nothing to do throughout the
film¬óBonaparte at one point jumps on top of Stiller, Capone waves a
machine gun and Ivan basically scowls.

Stiller's allies fare no better. Owen Wilson plays a miniature cowboy
trapped inside an hourglass by Kahmunrah. We're supposed to laugh as he
is gradually submerged by the sand inside the hourglass pouring down on
top of him. Steve Coogan is Wilson's buddy, playing another
'miniature', this time the famous Roman Emperor 'Octavius'. The
Emperor's big moment is when he mistakes a squirrel for a giant
creature and rides him back into the Smithsonian thinking he can take
on Kahmunrah's army of bad guys. No laughs there! Bill Hader plays
General Custer with an inferiority complex: he bemoans the fact that
he'll always be remembered for his one bad moment at the Little Big
Horn with all his other accomplishments ignored. While Custer is a
complete clown, the Indian Princess Sacajawea berates him not for his
hatred of Native Americans but rather for his incompetence as a
soldier.

It takes a long time before Stiller's love interest, feminist icon
Amelia Earhardt, played by Amy Adams, does what she does best: i.e. fly
a plane. But most of the time she's nothing more than the feeble love
interest in the film¬óchasing Stiller around, acting a bit spunky and
providing moral support. Other wasted parts include Robin Williams as
Teddy Roosevelt (in dual incarnations as Teddy on horseback and as a
talking bust), a completely forgettable Attila the Hun and a bunch of
grunting Neanderthals.

The plot is quite disappointing. After Kahmunrah finds out the 'secret
code' from a Bobblehead Albert Einstein and unleashes the forces of
evil, they all inexplicably run back into the portal after a giant
Abraham Lincoln (roused from his sleep at the Lincoln Memorial)
confronts them. Lincoln is reduced to an awkward giant, more like Lurch
of the old Adams Family TV series than the great statesman of American
history.

'Battle' was written mainly for the special effects department to show
their stuff. There are a few clever visual effects when famous
paintings come to life (most notable is when Stiller and Adams jump
into the famous scene on VJ Day with the sailor and the nurse making
out in Times Square). Rodan's 'Thinker' comes to life as a wise-talking
Guido and there are three angel statues singing updated rap versions of
r&b classics. All of this is nice to look at but it's simply not very
funny.

I have never been a big fan of Ben Stiller but here he outdoes himself
in a role that relies mainly on slapstick humor. There is nothing
clever or witty about Battle for the Smithsonian. It represents a
further dumbing down of American comedy. And the producers here should
heed the old admonition¬ówhat goes around, comes around! Hopefully
Kahmunrah will be putting a new curse on them in the future¬óat the box
office, where it hurts!
<|_=00=_|>
The reason why I went to watch this is because the first one was such a
good family movie. It has humour, suspense, slight action and in depth
plot and twist.

The sequel unfortunately is far from that. Night at the Museum: Battle
of the Smithsonian is about Larry Daley who has a better job since the
first movie and has now moved on to a different life. Little did he
knows that his friends at the Museum of Natural History are about to be
shipped and stored at the famous Smithsonian Institute. Long story
short, he now has to save little Jedediah and Octavius from a pharaoh
who is trying to take over the world. Sounds weird. Because it is. It
feels like the writers were out of ideas.

So what they do was they throw in a hell lot of characters including
Kahmunrah, a crazy pharaoh who is trying to take over the world, Albert
Einstein, Abe Lincoln and even Darth Vader.

The story seemed rush and some parts didn't make sense. For example,
why did Kahmunrah, the threatens to suffocate Jedediah in an hour-glass
when Jedediah is just a little statue who will most probably come back
to life the night after even if he 'died' today.

But negativity aside, I have to say that the actor that really stood
out was Hank Azaria, playing the villain Kahmunrah. He was loud and
funny and not to mention he even voiced Abe Lincoln and The Thinker.
Ben Stiller is just his usual self. And Amy Adams was fun and very
adorable as the female pilot Amelia Earhart, but the gung-ho attitude
gets old pretty fast.

The special effect and the score of the movie were okay. Not too good,
not too bad.

Overall, Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian is just another
Hollywood big-budget movie that has a massive room for improvement and
really could've done so much better.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked the first Night at the Museum, not bowled over, but very
entertained. It had great special effects and it was great to see
childhood legend Dick Van Dyke again. I was looking forward to this
sequel, hoping for the same sort of entertainment. This is not a
terrible film by all means, but as a sequel and film I couldn't help
feeling disappointed.

Granted, the special effects were absolutely wonderful, and the
cinematography, locations, costumes, sets and editing striking.
Granted, the score was rousing and fun, and most of the direction
solid. And granted the actors give it their all, Ben Stiller is solid
if occasionally going overboard, Amy Adams and Hank Azaria are absolute
hoots and Robin Williams returns as Roosevelt and along with Azaria is
the standout of the actors playing the historical figures.

However, the recurring support cast aren't given much to do excepting
Robin Williams, Owen Wilson is rather annoying, Napolean and Al Capone
are written as quite badly-written caricatures and don't get me started
on the Jonas Brothers, their presence added absolutely nothing to the
proceedings and they were not funny at all. And if only there was a
story and script that were consistently engaging, but the script and
sight gags are very hit and miss and the story is thin, and these are
further disadvantaged by the overlong length, tacky ending and too many
scenes that drag.

In conclusion, watchable but quite average. 5/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the first one was great, but felt the second one was in a
foot race to show as many of the old characters and new ones as fast as
possible and get to the end. But then again, when are sequels ever as
good? Let me take that back, Terminator 2 was awesome. And Lord of the
Rings. And several others, but this one was in a frenzy to go nowhere.
Stop. Take a Breath. Develop a more interesting script. I'm sure the
writer had something better in mind and the studios just plucked the
eyeballs out of it until it was just what it became in the end. This
could have been one of those franchise things that do more than just
make money. Yes, it will make money, but it could have been sprinkled
with a little more TLC. Let's get back to basics. You know the movie is
going to sell. You have the money and all the actors to sell it. Why
not just make a movie with a better storyline. The best part of the
movie was the trailer.
<|_=00=_|>
The first film was far from spectacular, but it was tolerable and a bit
of fun to watch. I came across the second movie when it was shown on
television and its terrible. It has been done once and wasn't
brilliant, the producers really shouldn't have bothered with number
two. The whole film is filled with terrible far-fetched acting. Every
line just tries to include a joke that is not even remotely funny and
frankly, leaves me with a blank expression on my face the whole time.
The whole movie is just "trying too hard". Too see some pretty famous
faces in it, is a shame as it is a real downfall in their career. i'm
surprised I actually ended up watching the whole movie, maybe I was
hoping it would get better. Evidently not! It is saying something when
you are watching this movie with kids and they even turn round to you
and say "Is this meant to be funny?" 1/10
<|_=00=_|>
Battle of the Smithsonian is by no means a terrible movie, but compared
to all the hilarious antics of the 1st, and all the freshness and
originality, it disappointed me heavily. The Museum they picked is not
as insightful or magical as the one in the original, bigger does not
always mean better, and I didn't care for most of the new characters
they picked. Owen Wilson's Jedediah is more irritating than anything
else now, and Robin William's witty portrayal of Teddy Roosevelt is
sadly wasted for the most part. Ben Stiller is slumming it here, on
auto pilot so to speak, and everything just seems so crammed together
with not that much heart or effort into it, but the effects definitely
were. Amy Adam's "Amelia Earhart" and Hank Azaria's Kahmunrah were
probably the best characters in the film in my opinion, I laughed my
ass off when Hank made fun of Darth Vader. This is a fine example of
where they should leave well enough alone, Night At The Museum didn't
need a sequel, and while this wasn't awful, I'll stick with the
original.

Performances. Ben Stiller is OK and has some funny bits, but he's on
auto pilot here a lot of the time, and I didn't sense the same
enthusiasm I did in the 1st with him. Amy Adams is great fun as Amelia
Earnhart, and I enjoyed every second she was on-screen. Owen Wilson is
annoying here in my opinion, and while I enjoyed him a lot of the time
in the original, here he got on my nerves. Hank Azaria is hilarious as
Kahmunrah, he stole a lot of the scenes he was in. Robin Williams is
wasted as Teddy, but shines with the scenes he has. Some of the crew
from the original like Steve Coogan, Ricky Gervais, and Jake Cherry
come back, but are given little to do.

Bottom line. This had its moments, but I was really quite disappointed
with the overall quality of it. It just seemed half-baked in my
opinion, and just made to make some quick cash. Worth a watch on a lazy
day, but I'd go get the original.

5 1/2 /10
