
Firstly, let me mention that this is my first IMDb post ever and I feel
compelled to make this post based on many different things. I went into
this movie with no prior knowledge other than a trailer of the movie
where michael cera gets berries knocked out of his hands etc. The scene
made me laugh and I thought that Jack Black and Cera could be a good
pairing for a comedy. I did not know that the movie was directed by
Harold Ramis nor that the script was written by Ramis as well as the
guys from The Office (all three of whom are comedy geniuses), nor did I
know that the movie had been panned by Roger Ebert: the only movie
critic whom i actually respect in that we have very similar taste in
movies. If I had read the Ebert review (1 star), I probably wouldn't
have gone to see the movie but nonetheless I did. There are two kinds
of comedy: comedy with a moral to the story and mindless comedy for the
sole purpose of making people laugh. This is the latter but it is done
to perfection. I'm not going to talk about the movie itself other than
to say that the scenes with Oliver Platt and Cera had me laughing as
hard as the first half hour of Borat (i.e. I could barely breathe). I'm
not claiming that this movie is a classic, in fact I'll admit that
there was no real point to the movie and the philosophical bits fell
pretty flat but all in all there were many scenes in this movie where
Ramis' genius is apparent. I went to the movie to get some laughs and I
definitely got my moneys worth. For a quick example of some other
comedies which had me leaving a large amount of pee for theatre
personnel to mop up later: A Fish Called Wanda,...The Holy Grail,
Office Space, Borat, Austin Powers, Happy Gilmore. OK I didn't see most
of these in the theatre but you get the point. I can't really say why
so many people are panning Year One. My only thought is that they
really just don't get the humor. Obviously there is a plentiful supply
of people on IMDb that will not like this notion since they couldn't
possibly be wrong about anything but in my opinion they are mistaken
when it comes to this movie. I have a feeling that people's opinions of
this movie will change in time. Is it possible that a pointless cave
man comedy could be before its time? I hope this post will get a few
more people to watch this movie with an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the in theater preview for this movie, I was extremely
excited. I went home and got onto Facebook and became a fan of the
movie, which provided me with updates containing every video pertaining
to Year One that was out there. I saw all of these videos and laughed
hysterically, but I began to get a feeling that the movie would consist
of what was in the previews and be nothing more than around 15 minutes
of funny dragged out over a 90 minute period of time.

I was wrong.

When the movie started, I began to become even more worried I would
hate it because within the first 20 minutes of the movie, at least 3/4
of the things seen in the previews were already said. I figured it was
going to drag on from there. To my great relief, it did not at all. The
entire hour and a half of the movie was constant laughing. The way
Black and Cera got themselves into so much trouble and managed to get
out of it every time was perfect. The ridiculous yet hilarious
references to The Bible and how things that exist today were created
were perfect. The movie was exactly what it was supposed to be: a laugh
out loud comedy that was only meant to entertain.

I am still baffled as to why people keep bashing this movie. Comments
like "Worst Movie of the Decade" anger me... What were people expecting
with this movie? A heart warming story with a compelling plot and
serious action? It is like everybody is sizing this movie up to
expectations that it doesn't need to be sized up to. This movie was a
great movie if all you want to do is go in and laugh. If you are
looking for some deeper moral and other things that don't belong in a
movie like Year One, you should go and see something else.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer was funnier than the movie. I was somewhat looking forward
to seeing this film, and was greatly disappointed when it turned out to
be completely awful. There were some funny moments, but they were
swallowed up by the sheer stupidity of the rest. I seriously doubt that
fans of Black or Cera will be pleased with this film.

I was lucky enough to see this movie at a free pre-screening. That
makes me pretty happy, because I would have been distraught if I had to
pay $7.50 to sit through this mess. The plot was very contrived, and
the historical humour fizzled out after the first twenty minutes. The
rest of the movie relied on a myriad of sexual innuendos that were
overused and abused. Overall, the movie became very unenjoyable and
although there were a few laughs hidden in there, they could not make
up for the rest.
<|_=00=_|>
This is nowhere as bad as some are making out - it has touches of
Python and a lot of Mel Brooks - it is pretty lazy in places with too
much adlibbing - at least I hope it was adlibbing...

But this is pretty good entertainment - and it's not really about
cavemen - it's about the Old Testament set mainly in Sodom - and it is
kind of like Life of Brian - though clearly not in the same class.

One can understand why marketers don't want problems with an upset
congregation, but at the end of the day this works pretty well as both
broad comedy and a gentle satire.

Considering that I was expecting a total donkey with a side order of
turkey this was pretty much a fun film - and no where near as bad as
I'd heard. Can be watched without loss of brain cells...
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at a matin√©e yesterday, with very lowered expectations. Don't
quite get all the hate on here for it. If you like Jack Black and
Michael Cera, they perform as expected here, loudmouthed braggart and
wimpy foil, respectively. Amazing cast...David Cross as Cain and Paul
Rudd as Abel? Inspired. Oliver Platt as a hairy-chested high priest?
The "McLovin" Kid? There's even a member of Upright Citizens Brigade
who puts in a very brief cameo. The story is dumb, and there's a few
jokes that fall flat...but the sets are impressive and everyone
involved seems to be having fun. A good rental, at least. But you
people that are rating it a 1? Save your venom for movies that deserve
that, like "Meet The Spartans" (unwatchable) or the latest Michael Bay
atrocity.
<|_=00=_|>
If you hated Life of Brian, then you won't like Year One either. In
fact, we see a lot of such creatures rating this movie with one star as
a political/religious statement. However, if you like your comedy
layered upon multiple levels of meaning, and embedded within a
historical and philosophical context, and you're knowledgeable enough
to get jokes based upon middle eastern mythology and the slow ascent of
enlightenment, you will love this movie.

The film starts with our Main Men, Oh and Zed (Cera and Black) embedded
in a basic hunter-gatherer culture. Only problem is, Oh and Zed are
modern humans, with our self-awareness and ironic detachment,
surrounded by wild-state humans. The natural humans are powerful and
fit, but a little lacking in philosophy.

After a close encounter with the Tree of Knowledge, Zed and Oh are
exiled by their close-minded band and strike out for the Big City and
Modern Times. They soon encounter the Hebrews, and this is where our
own closed-minded theatre-goers get their panties in a bunch. We meet
Abraham preparing to sacrifice Isaac, Cain slaying Abel, and the
ridiculous absurdity of Old Testament "morality". Modern day fundies
have a sense of humor chiseled in stone like the Ten Commandments, and
this movie breaks them all.

Unfortunately the innocence of the hunter-gatherers has also been lost
by this time. They have been captured by civilization and sold into
slavery, and now Zed and Oh have a mission: rescue their damsels in
distress (Maya and Eema) from slavery in Sodom.

Fortunately Isaac (in a hilarious portrayal of the Jewish Badboy by
Chris Mintz-Plasse - that's McLovin to you)guides them to Sin City,
where our heroes are quickly introduced into the complexities of modern
politics. The power structure of the city is tyrannical and corrupt,
ruled by a rotten king, his hilariously corrupt High Priest, and the
scheming Prime Minister.

By the end of the film Oh and Zed and Maya and Eema (who are also very
funny in supporting roles) have traversed the philosophical arc from
instinctive animals through corrupt theocracy and finally end up
peering through the keyhole of enlightenment. The humor is a little too
smart and sacrilegious for some viewers, but for most it is an
excellent comedy. I laughed my ass off and never missed it.
<|_=00=_|>
A great number of talented people were involved with this film:
writer/director Harold Ramis (Ghostbusters, Groundhog Day), co-writers
Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg (The Office), lead actors Jack Black
and Michael Cera, supporting actors David Cross and Oliver Platt, and
cameo actors Paul Rudd, Bill Hader, and Kyle Gass, just to name a few.
And it was produced by Judd Apatow. And yet it goes so terribly wrong.
How? You have to go to the source: the script, which is aimless,
disjointed, and sadly puerile. If you enjoy unfunny penis jokes and
find the digestion of human excrement absolutely hilarious, you might
enjoy this movie. I found very few laughs here, and I can't believe the
amount of talent squandered on this trainwreck.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like juvenile humor, and find Jack Black funny, then this movie
works. Most people won't like it, but if you liked a movie like The
Love Guru last year, this will appeal to you. Nothing too clever, but
funny.

Basically, Jack Black and Michael Cera play their usual characters,
just in loincloths. Jack can't hunt or gather, but he eats from the
tree of knowledge, and both are banished into the world. David Cross
plays Cain, who is the first person they meet, and actually plays
someone closer to his stand up act than Tobias (David and Michael would
have worked together on Arrested Development, but David shows that he
can actually play another character).

They go from one biblical setting to another, making fun (mainly) of
the old testament, and eventually wind up in Sodom, with Cain, and the
requisite love interests....

I think where this movie falls down is it seems a bit like a long skit.
The chemistry between Jack Black and Michael Cera I thought wasn't
great, but the plot/character development was really just secondary to
getting in some jokes. Obviously, the jokes won't be to everyones taste
(hence the rankings of 0), and will be to others (thus the rankings of
10).

Again, although this may very well win a Razzie this year, I liked it,
and if you like stupid humor, this movie has lots of it.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie on the bottom rack of the corner shelf at
blockbuster, which didn't bode well, but I'm glad I took a chance. If
you like Arrested Development or Mr Show, you'll like this movie.

The movie is a satire of the old testament. It presents the biblical
creation story in the context of a tribe of stone age humans with
contemporary mindsets. The results are hilarious, it's not as good as
Monty Python's Life of Brian, but it's in the same ballpark.

The only area where the movie suffers is in what seems like an attempt
to cater to a younger audience with toilet humor. However, as you
cringe watching the toilet humor scenes, you get sideswiped by a few
clever jokes that are timed just right.

There are a few jokes in the movie that are delivered so perfectly,
with such great nuance and skill, that just thinking about them still
makes me laugh. My favorite is the scene where the priest is reading
the omens from the sheep entrails he's just poured onto the table, "to
me, I see a smiley face, and that makes me happy". ;) This movie is one
of the few that I'm willing to buy.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I just got back from watching this movie, and I thought
it was hilarious.

I like movies that don't take themselves too seriously, and this is
definitely a movie like that. It looked like everyone had fun making a
silly film. And I know everyone in the theater was laughing throughout
it.

There are parts that try to drag a joke out for a little too long, but
overall, I thought the humor was simple, effective, and very well
executed.

Michael Cera was definitely the shining star in this movie. He delivers
awkward comedy SO well and just so believable and likable. He is a
fantastic actor.
