
Oh my god, what was I thinking to watch this film with my brother. I
cannot believe I paid any money at all to watch this rubbish film. 

THE BAD:

Megan Fox's acting 

A script so bad that the writers should go back to 3rd grade. The movie
is a mess. Very Noisy. Lacks imagination. Completely forgettable. I
mean I could go on all day.

The only thing good about this movie is Josh Brolin, he gives a good
performance as Jonah Hex, he tries to save this complete mess of a
film. But sadly its too much of a bloated mess to save. I truly feel
bad for him. 

As for Megan Fox, she better start having some acting lessons, cause
this movie has the potential to absolutely sent her career to the
grave. After loosing her role in Transformers 3, she desperately needs
to do something.

I can only give this movie 3 stars because Brolin, who you can see
tried really hard and was successful portraying Jonah Hex. Its just sad
that Jonah Hex was there, but the movie itself wasn't.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Analysis Paralysis!

It was fun. Everyone did a competent job. It's not a movie for
intellectuals, just for people who enjoy flicks. As more people see it,
its rating will go up. It's now 4.3/10 with 1,266 votes. Watch.

I really enjoyed that the special F/X were not overdone.

It's a comic book fer cryin' out loud!, it's not supposed to be No
Country for Old Men!

I was never bored, it was well paced. 

That whole business with the dead people was fun and nice plot
enhancer.

I really don't know what all the negative fuss it about.

It's not a summer blockbuster, it's a summer popcorn and soda,
better-than-T.V. techno western flick.

Actually, my expectations were so diminished by all the bad press that
I enjoyed it More that I expected I would.

As I read all the detailed bad press and saw what over analysis was in
the comments, and discounted all that, that's what put me over the edge
to go and see it.

And I'm glad I did.

It was fun.

No one's careers were ruined. Just briskly moving summer fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I wonder if people that reviewed this film actually watched
it, or if they gave it a chance, not like second glancing at it because
they're cooking dinner at the same time.

Jonah Hex is an entertaining little movie based upon the DC Comic Book
character. To be honest, I've never read the comic, had little
expectations coming in, and wouldn't have gone to see this in the
theater. This genre is admittedly, 'right up my alley'. Usually I check
some ratings on here before renting movies so that I avoid the flops.
Thankfully, I didn't look on IMDb until AFTER I had already rented it.
So when I looked at IMDb's 4.6 user rating AFTER renting it, but BEFORE
watching it; my expectations were lowered even further, and I nearly
put off watching it, again. Nevertheless, it was due the next day and I
popped it in the DVD player when the other-half went to bed(too bad -
she would have liked it). I have a good sound system and a nice TV -
both made this action/western/fantasy even better.

Let's take a look at some of the films on IMDb with similar user
ratings - specifically some of the worst films that I have ever
seen/wasted my time and money on.

Ready to Wear(Pret-A-Porter)4.8 Actually rated higher than Jonah Hex.
This was two hours I will NEVER get back. A terribly boring movie with
no redeeming qualities whatsoever.

King Solomon's Mines 4.6 Tied with Jonah Hex. This may be the worst
movie I have ever seen. A literal walk out of the theater. And I know
what you're thinking. I talked about giving movies a chance earlier,
but I revisited KSM years later, and it still remains the worst film
I've ever seen in my lifetime, 1 and a half times. 

Toys 4.6 Enough said.

Jonah Hex' style is true to the comic book theme. The opening of the
film is excellent, and gives us a good foundation for an entertaining
storyline. John Malkovich is ALWAYS a good adversary/bad guy, and Josh
Brolin IS Jonah Hex. Megan Foxes' role is small, and she serves every
purpose, much like a smoking hot Bond girl. Her Body alone makes this
film worth 4.6.

But, Jonah Hex is much more. It's interesting, it's action packed, and
it's well-paced. 

Now, is it believable? No. What comic book based film is? Is it Oscar
worthy? No. Will it appear on any legitimate 2010 Top Ten lists? No.
Jonah Hex is the pure definition of a popcorn flick. Not just one that
rare movie watchers might over-rate(It's no nine or ten), and one that
critics will annihilate, but one that is sure to surprise many who give
it a chance. It's worth the rental - especially if you have a TV and
sound system that can give you a near theater experience. I like some
of the subtle touches to this movie, and Malkovich and Brolin really
help the cause.

58/100

You'll like it if you liked: Fantastic Four Rise of the Silver Surfer,
Brotherhood of the Wolf, and Timecop.
<|_=00=_|>
First, I want to mention some of the good stuff. Josh Brolin is
excellent as Hex, perfect casting, great job by Brolin, thoroughly
enjoyable to watch. John Malkovich was very good in a role that could
have easily been too over the top to be taken seriously. Fassbender was
genuinely creepy, Jeffrey Dean Morgan was great, and Megan Fox looks
gorgeous and her acting is not that bad. Combine that with an amazing
soundtrack by Mastodon, (and a surprise cameo by Brent Hinds) I have to
say I enjoyed the movie. The negatives: "The Weapon" - a weird,
quasi-science, completely unexplained "nation-killer" invented by Eli
Whitney... WTF? Stupid. While on the subject, why does the world have
to be at stake? A simple revenge tale would have sufficed. Aidan Quinn
was awful, but it probably wasn't his fault, unless he wrote his own
lines. Why tell Hex's backstory with a couple of minutes of poorly
animated crap with a voice-over when they could've filmed Hex's origin
sequence and made it a much better movie? No idea, but I can't explain
many of the choices that were made on this movie. Why was it only 80
minutes long? Who thought that was a good idea? Who cast Will Arnett in
a straight role? I kept waiting for him to do something funny. To sum
it up, there was some really good work done on this movie, but there
were too many terrible decisions made that left it a disjointed mess in
spite of its potential. As a life-long Jonah Hex fan, I was happy to
see him captured so perfectly by Brolin, but disappointed as hell that
the studio screwed up the movie so badly, and ruined any chance of this
becoming a successful franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Starts off as an excercise in mediocrity and clich√© but manages to sink
even lower as the film's (thankfully short) running time comes to a
close. 

What a shame. The original Neveldine and Taylor script (which I only
read half of because I didn't want to spoil myself silly) was actually
quite good. Episodic in the way that Hex gets himself into bizarre jams
(much like the original 70's comic) on the road to the film's
Macguffin. 

One such jam being he runs into a town where the occupants have all
been lobotomized. 

Unfortunately, none of that makes it to the final film and although a
lot of the film was cut down I don't believe they filmed even 90% of
what was in that script. 

What remains of the N & T script is the Gatling gun sequence (albeit
without the gore) and the arena sequence (heavily reworked and,
ultimately, uninteresting). 

There are one or two shots where Hex is riding through the countryside
at night. I'd like to know if any other IMDBers were having trouble
making out what was going on in those shots. Poorly lit. 

Have cinematographers forgotten to lens a night scene in westerns? All
"day for night" jokes aside, this is terrible. I never thought I would
see such an eye strainingly dim scene in a big budgeted Hollywood
picture. 

Shameful. 

As for the charisma vacuum that is Megan Fox, she's surprisingly
substantial in her introductory scene but falls into familiar
territory, for her (empty expression/lifeless), shortly after.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm hesitant to call this an out and out terrible movie as some have
labelled it simply because it was mildly entertaining. There's a lot of
action, some cool ideas, a great performance by Josh Brolin and the
short 80 minute running time doesn't hurt it either.

The sad truth of the whole thing is that it just didn't come close to
its potential. For starters, Jonah Hex didn't have to be macabre and
supernatural...to my knowledge this wasn't even part of the original
comic books that the movie is based on. The original story is simple,
Jonah Hex's family is murdered, he's horribly scarred and left for
dead. He gets better and sets out for revenge. It's a pretty classic
western tale...one that we've seen before but given the general lack of
western movies these days, that doesn't matter...there's plenty of room
in theatres for a fun out for revenge Western. Having said all that,
the supernatural ideas that they came up with are actually kinda cool,
and I would've been happy to see them mixed in, if only they'd been
handled better. Instead these elements seem tossed in as an excuse to
include CG effects that the box office loves oh so much.

The end result is an unfortunate mash up of a good ideas...that maybe
could've worked if more time had been put into development, it feels
like it was either slapped together too hastily or suffered from a
massive reedit...during most of the film I couldn't shake the feeling
that there was maybe a 2 hour+ director's cut lying on the floor
somewhere which may or may not be a superior and more coherent film. I
was looking forward Jonah Hex based on a short appearance he had in a
Batman cartoon years ago...from that alone I thought the character had
a lot of movie potential but I was let down. Brolin's performance is
the best part of the movie. Malkovich is good but nothing too
spectacular considering his track record, and even Megan Fox is half
decent but she doesn't have a lot to do with her pretty much useless
character.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of comics and westerns so even though I knew of Jonah Hex in
name only this was something I knew I could probably at least sit
through. I've seen some reviews and they seem a little harsh. It wasn't
anything special but it moved a long fairly quickly and I wasn't bored
for what that's worth.

I agree with others that Brolin was a good choice for Hex. I was glad
to see Malkovich there but he seemed a tad underwhelming. I think he's
a great actor so I trust he nailed the character though. Will Arnett
stuck out like a sore thumb in the small number of scenes he was in.
He's a goofy, funny guy I just don't really want to see him in a
serious role. You almost can't tell if he's for real or being
sarcastically serious. Megan Fox is Megan Fox. Why people are
complaining so much about her acting I have no idea. She's there for
sex appeal. No one thinks she's the next coming of Meryl Streep or
something.

The movie looked a little too synthetic for me especially some of the
"ultimate weapon" stuff. It looked a little too clean for a western
too. I don't know why some movies like There Will Be Blood can look so
authentic and suck you in to the setting but others like this just look
too fake.

I figured there would be some fantastic elements involved even though
it was grounded in real life, just because of the comic influence. That
might have prepared me a little more for the stuff others might have
found to be out of place. In fairness movies are a little bit like
watching a sporting event for the first time. If you don't know the
rules or know what to expect you're likely to not enjoy it much. After
the first 5 minutes or so I figured as much to not be jarred by some of
the more out of place plot elements, so all in all I thought it was a
short, somewhat entertaining movie. Glad it wasn't much longer though.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't really expecting much out of this film. And I thought that it
coming out the same weekend as Toy Story 3 was pretty laughable. But it
seemed like fun, so I thought I'd give it a try. Sadly, it turned out
pretty much how I expected, and it's no wonder there was such little
advertisement paid to this film. 

Jonah Hex is pretty straightforward in it's story. Jonah Hex witnessed
his family die at the hands of John Turnbull. Unfortunately, for Hex,
Turnbull died mysteriously in a hotel fire...or did he. Turns out
Tunrbull is still alive and a danger to the US. Now, Jonah must get his
revenge and save the US.

A lot of people have compared this film to The Wild Wild West.
Thankfully, this is not that film. Granted, it's not all that grounded
in reality (actually, it's not grounded in reality much at all), but
there's no giant walking spiders or head slicing, flying discs. The
action here is pretty ridiculous and outrageous, but at the same is
fun. It helps that Josh Brolin, as the titular Jonah Hex, is pretty
damn cool. He plays off Dirty Harry pretty well, with only a few one
liners and a pretty well drawn out character. In fact, I would say that
if they ever do a remake of Dirty Harry, I would vote for Brolin to
take up the reins. Unfortunately, most of the rest of the cast is not
as good. John Malkovich plays Turnbull lazily. Sure, he's not as hammy
as he could have been, which I am grateful for, but I can't help but
feel that he isn't the least bit interested in what he is doing. And
with the kind of character he's supposed to be, there should be more
passion, but it's sadly missing. As for the third big name, Megan Fox
does what she does best and looks hot in some slutty western dresses.
For a film like this, I guess you can't ask much more from her.

The action is obviously where this film is at, and it mostly delivers.
It's far from the biggest action film this summer, but there are some
pretty outrageous and entertaining pieces, like the Gatling gun-mounted
horse and the dynamite gun scenes known from the trailer. And when
there isn't action going on, Brolin saves the film. Besides the action,
he is the best thing here. I would also even argue that the film does a
good job translating the comic book style. While it could have been
much better, it could also have been a lot worse. I guess I can at
least be thankful for that.

Suffice to say, I pretty much got what I thought I would get out of the
film: a cool Josh Brolin, a hot Megan Fox, a wooden John Malkovich, and
a lot of crazy action. Was I satisfied? I suppose. It was a decent way
to kill about an hour and a half. Would I run out to the theater for
this? Nah. If you really care about the ticket price and your time, I
would just wait to rent it on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember how people always seem to make jokes that they lose interest
in a movie if something isn't blown up in the first five minutes of
whatever they're watching? Well, if that's true, those people won't
have any problems with the opening of Jonah Hex. There are two huge
explosions, a shootout, and a robbery in the first fifteen minutes of
the film. Not to mention the fact that the film is beyond loud. With
all of the explosions, fires, shootouts, fistfights, and yelling going
on in the film, there isn't really a single moment in the film's entire
duration where the floor isn't rumbling or your chair isn't shaking
from the intense action taking place on screen. 

While Josh Brolin does a decent job of bringing the Jonah Hex character
to life, he seems a bit flat at times. Before I go any further, let me
be the first to point out that I didn't read the Jonah Hex comics. So
this is purely from a moviegoer's standpoint. Jonah Hex is so focused
on getting revenge for his family that he's really kind of boring other
than the occasional wise remark every so often. He can apparently talk
to dead people, which is kind of interesting. But animals tend to have
a thing for him, too; horses, dogs, a huge murder of crows. Did anyone
else find it humorous that every time Hex left a location, it was
either burning, exploding, or a combination of both? 

Megan Fox brings mostly eye candy to her role as a promiscuous woman
who has a soft spot for Jonah Hex and has a decent action scene towards
the end of the film, but adds little to her repertoire as far as acting
goes. The supporting cast of actors alone should have sold this movie.
John Malkovich as the main villain supports that theory, but his
character is also pretty dull. He lost the thing he loved most in this
world thanks to Jonah Hex and the military, so he's decided to kill
innocent bystanders and destroy the United States. That's about as deep
as his character gets. Small parts were given to actors that probably
should have been around longer than they were. Will Arnett ("Arrested
Development") is around long enough for you to notice he's in a serious
role, Wes Bentley (American Beauty) has a similar role that buckles
under the intimidation of Malkovich's Quentin Turnbull, and Jeffrey
Dean Morgan (Watchmen) has a five minute scene that kind of makes you
wonder why he took the part to begin with. Michael Fassbender
(Inglourious Basterds) was pretty enjoyable as Burke though. He seems
to make the most out of his short time on screen.

The film has quite a few drawbacks. The main one being that it's
incredibly short. It isn't even an hour and a half long. So everything
moves along at a rushed pace. The animated opening felt out of place,
as well. A live-action adaptation shouldn't really try to make a point
to rub the audience's nose in the fact that it's based on a comic book.
Be an all around good film first and a homage to your source material
second. The animation seemed kind of sloppy, as well. In a time where
3D technology is at its peak and Studio Ghibli and Disney are still
producing top of the line hand drawn animated films, it's difficult not
to notice when something like that isn't up to par. Maybe it's just the
anime fan in me, but did the orange detonation balls in the film remind
anyone else of the dragonballs from Dragonball Z? 

Jonah Hex is incredibly flawed and the film seems to try and make a
point to showoff its weak points more than anything, but it's short
enough that it doesn't seem like torture and tries to be as explosively
entertaining as it can during that runtime. If Desperado and Van
Helsing could somehow meet, spend a romantic evening together, and mate
that resulted in offspring in the form of film, Jonah Hex would be
their love child.
<|_=00=_|>
Jonah Hex (2010) 

** (out of 4)

After seeing his family murdered and himself brutally mutilated by
Quentin Turnbull (John Malkovich), Jonah Hex (Josh Brolin) turns bounty
hunter to capture any bad guy he can but soon the President asks Hex to
track down and kill Turnbull who has stolen a massive weapon that could
take out the country. Without the ending credits this thing clocks in
at 73-minutes, which is rather amazing in today's world when it seems
movies keep getting longer and longer. I don't mind the short running
time as I feel it something we need more of but at the same time this
film is a mess. For starters, while watching the thing it's clear this
was meant to be longer and more violent. The film jumps around from one
bit of the story to the next and it appears the short running time was
done to build the "style" of storytelling. Well, it just doesn't work
because you feel as if you're watching something that is missing
footage. This continues with the violence because at times we're
watching a rather dark and moody film but then we get quick edits when
the violence happens so to my eyes it's rather obvious that they wanted
to get this a PG-13 rating. Would the more graphic violence had helped?
I'd say probably so because, again, it's obvious the film had it cut
out. I put the majority of the blame on director Hayward and his style.
The quick edits, fast zooms and the various other "cool" objects he
throws at us is just distracting and in the end they become very
boring. This isn't a complete bomb as we do get some nice stuff and
that includes Hex's ability to talk with the dead by touching them and
bringing them back to life. I found some of these special effects to be
off but at the same time it gave the film a certain darkness that I
enjoyed. The best moment in the film happens when Hex brings his dead
friend back to life, a friend he just happened to kill. The film takes
place just after the Civil War and I thought they got the look of the
land pretty good and this here was another plus. What does keep the
film moving better than it deserves was the performance by Brolin who
managed to make the character his very own. I loved the laid back
approach to the role and Brolin's dry sense of humor worked perfectly
as we do get a few nice one-liners. Malkovich appears to be having fun
but the film doesn't get to spend too much time with him. Megan Fox
plays the prostitute who Hex cares for and delivers a rather blah
performance. There's nothing bad with her but there's nothing good
either. She's obviously just here for eye candy as she's constantly in
skimpy clothes and it's never made clear why she's in love with a
disfigured Hex. I normally don't go for a film like this but the
subject matter, cast and trailer made it look interesting but sadly the
end result is extremely mixed and all in all a major disappointment.
This film should have been so much more but the poor direction and ugly
style just kills it in the end.
