
Just got back from a screening of The Darkest Hour and honestly this
film was better than I anticipated. I confess, I hadn't wanted to go at
all but my friend insisted and so to keep the peace I went. Granted,
the beginning is a uneven and it was unclear where the story was going
but once it clicks in the thing moves right along. You are never sure
who is going to die next and that helps keep the suspense level high.
The acting is serviceable and the location is a refreshing change from
the usual New York/Chicago skylines. It's frankly more interesting to
watch the tale unfold against the dinginess of contemporary Moscow, and
with Russian soldiers instead of Americans. Moreover, the special
effects are simple, but effective.

In essence, invisible beings are here to steal our electricity and only
insulators (e.g. glass or Faraday Cages) enable us to be hide from
them. Because they are ruthless and utterly determined, there is no
hope for negotiation, no chance for peace. Early on it is made clear
either we win or we will be exterminated. 

I liked everything about the movie, even though the alien invasion
genre has gotten a bit tired of late. I was never bored and was always
in suspense as to what would happen next. At 89 minutes, this joint
Russian-American production probably could have taken more time with
its story and characters, and not be in such a hurry to kill them off.
Since the background is so different, maybe they could have shown us
more of the city or used the locations more effectively. 

Yet for all the obvious complaints one can make, the move works if you
let it. I believe viewers will find it worth their while. Take it for
what it is, and I honestly think you will have a good time at The
Darkest Hour.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very skeptical to spend money on a movie with a 4.9 IMDb Rating
but in the end of the day I went with my guts which never let me down.
I saw the trailers back in summer 2011 and was already excited.

So what is the problem with this movie? Why does it have such bad
reviews? The environment has a lot to with it. The movie is set in
Moscow, the most actors are Russian and the 2 supposedly American girls
are occasionally speaking with a British accent. This is probably a bit
too much for a "patriot". The next point would be the acting, it is not
that good and the special effects range from brilliant to not so
brilliant but then again this is a 30 Million Budget movie, they city
of Moscow went through hoops to make it happen by closing down main
roads and entire quarters. The scenes when humans are getting killed
are extremely well done an innovative and the whole plot is very
exciting and doesn't give much time to breath.

If you aren't ignorant to let another country but the USA be the good
guys for once you will simply love that movie, if your heroes must kiss
the love interest in front of an American flag then forget about it.

Great movie, not so great actors but all in all enjoyable and 8 points
for a new idea of an Alien Invasion.
<|_=00=_|>
Christmas day! What a day for seeing movies! I really wanted to see Sir
Brad Bird's Mission Impossible, but my friend wanted to see it with me,
so I went for the next best thing: a Summit film. If you have can't the
best, get the worst, Fat Man sez. Just going to start off with a
disclaimer: SPOILER ALERTS. I won't say the movie was predictable, but
it certainly wasn't rational. Throughout this review, I'll be throwing
in some sane person/writer pop quizzes. Let's see how you stack up!

The Darkest Hour starts with our " " "heros" " " "  I really couldn't
put enough quotes around that word  flying in to Moscow on the worst
CG airplane I've ever seen. Nice, Summit. Sean and Ben are there to
pitch their newest internet craze Apple phones apps  World Travel
Hunter (I honestly don't remember)  to an investment group. They find
that their Swedish buddy, Skyler, has ripped off their idea and is
selling it as they walk in the room. WHOA!! In a fit of being sad, they
end up at a hip hip Moscow night club with two of the stupidest people
on the continent, Natalie and Anne. Now that we have our cast of
dummies, aliens invade. They hide in the basement of the club for a
week until the coast is clear.

POP QUIZ #1! Aliens have attacked and slaughtered most humans alive.
You're an American in Moscow and still alive. What do you do? A) Head
for the closest police station. B) Head for the closest military base.
C) Head for the highest building to get a vantage point on the action.
D) Head for the American Embassy.

If you chose D, you're in good company. Off they go! Oh wait, it's time
for

POP QUIZ #2! Aliens have attacked and slaughtered most humans alive.
You're in Moscow and you know nothing except that they are out for
blood. You've got to get to *sigh* the American Embassy. How do you
get there? A) Try to move from building to building, using
interconnects. B) Walk down the middle of the biggest street you can
find, in full view of everything. C) Use the ancient Moscow sewer and
tunnel systems. D) Take advantage of the extensive underground transit
system.

If you answered B, not only was that the best choice, but you're still
alive. Now at the embassy, they find nobody is there, but somehow
discover there's a SUBMARINE leaving soon that will take them to
relative safety. Joined by others along the way, they finally get on a
boat to float down to the sub. Oh, Ben, Skylar, and Anne are now dead.
Guess those choices weren't so good after all. A huge blast knocks the
boat over, and everybody manages to make it to the sub 50 feet away
except for Natalie

FINAL QUIZ! #3 FOR ALL THE MARBLES! You are trying to get to the safety
of a submarine when you're knocked in to the water. Do you.. A)
Resurface, swim to the sub, and get in. B) Resurface, swim to the sub,
and get in. C) Resurface, swim to the bank, walk 20 feet to the sub,
and get in. D) Resurface, swim to the bank, head a half mile inland at
a dead sprint, and hide in a bus.

If you chose D, you are the love interest of The Darkest Hour and we're
supposed to be cheering for you to make it. Wow. Wow. Needless to say,
or maybe I should since nothing else made sense, they retrieve her,
kill a few aliens, and head off. The crappy VO at the end lets us know
a few other aliens have been killed and one or two ships blown up. So?
They're strip-mining the earth and then leaving.

I've aired most of my complaints already, but it's worth noting a few
other things. Emile Hirsch and Max Minghella are no slouches, acting-
wise, but you couldn't tell. Even good actors need direction, I
suppose. I also take back everything I've said about wanting better
monster design. These were completely original and completely horrible.

Darkest Hour really leaves me a little torn. On one hand, I enjoyed the
film immensely. It's like watching a car full of Hollywood producers
roll down a hill, catch fire, and burst in to flames. Beautiful and
hilarious in its tragedy. On the other hand, this film got heavily
marketed, released in over 2000 theaters, and did terrible in the box
office. Hollywood complains that nobody wants to go to movies, nobody
is buying tickets, it's all the fault of pirates, we need more more
more restrictions so we can make every bit we can. Funny, the top
monthly grosses have all happened since 2007, most since 2009, and 4 in
2011 alone. Who's not making enough money? This will also be held up as
an example of why original work doesn't sell  more prequels, sequels,
and remakes for everyone! Maybe if you had a screening process for
scripts and gave creative control to directors and writers instead of a
pile of producers, good, original work would be successful.

Merry Christmas everyone. Continue to vote with your dollar and give
your hard earned cash to deserving movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why critics panned this movie so much. Did they expect a
different movie than what they saw? After seeing the trailer, this
looked like a fun movie so I gave it a shot and was not disappointed.
It was pretty much like I thought it was going to be. Sure the whole
alien invaders thing has been done a lot, and this sticks to the
formula to a certain extent (minus the annoying deus ex machina plot
device), but it was original enough to set it apart.

The acting, while not Oscar worthy, was definitely fine for this genre
of movie. The setting (deserted Moscow after the invasion) was well
done, and the effects (apart from the opening airplane shot) were
pretty good too. There was just enough suspense and action to keep
things interesting, and while I didn't feel a deep bond with the
characters, I still rooted for them to survive.

All in all, this was a pretty fun movie, and throughout it I keep
wondering to myself why there were so many bad reviews because I was
definitely liking it.

Don't listen to the "critics" who are too full of themselves and don't
get this kind of movie; judge for yourself. If after seeing the trailer
you think you'll enjoy the movie, you probably will (if you go into it
unbiased). I definitely did.
<|_=00=_|>
In a world of mostly straight to video lower budget scifi movies or the
hit and miss affairs of Sci-Fi original movies, The Darkest Hour was a
real joy.

The ghost-like concept of the invaders was well conceived. Adding
tension in droves, much like the original alien movie, with the what
you can't see lets your mind be more creative. The lack of need for
constant CGI of the aliens seemed to allow more budget and creativity
on the other more subtle effects, creating a much more believable
world. The floor of light bulbs effects, used similarly to the motion
detectors in the Aliens movie, was cool.

It seems the film critics have again missed the point and glories of
this movie. What they seemed to punish for I personally found to be the
movies greatest achievements. Efficient, well conceived plot to me,
seen as lacking to the critics. The not trying to save the whole world,
ala Independence Day, but focusing on rag tag group of unprepared
survivors worked, as it does in AMC's series The Walking Dead. The
restrained use of 3D, meaning few objects flying out the screen or
visual overdose leading to headache like the latest Transformers movie.
The 3D effects added significantly to the sites of Moscow, giving a
true sense of the size of Red Square and hence the immersion a 3D movie
should give.

The Darkest Hour. Solid entertainment and great way to see Moscow
without a 12hr flight. Ignore the critics and make up your own mind.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, don't get my review title wrong, I actually found the movie
rather fascinating given my initial expectation. My title is more
directed at the reviewers who crutch their poor reviews on the aspect
of originality.

For one, what is there to expect out of an alien movie these days?
They're either friendly, or they're blood thirsty, this movie being an
example of the later. Now, given they're bloodthirsty, how many
various, and colorful reasons can there be for an alien invasion?
Anyone having taken a 9th grade social studies class can tell you that
initial invasions of a hostile intent happen for one of 3 reasons,
territory, resources, or religion. This movie, *SPOILERS* eventually,
made the hypothesis that the initial invasion was for resources.
*/SPOILERS* How many "original" concepts can we really ask for out of
those 3 categories? 

Here's what I noticed defining this movie from other alien invasion
concepts: *SPOILERS* 1. They weren't identifiable, humanoid invaders.
That definitely gave me a different perspective on differing lifeforms.
905 of the alien movies I see, even if they try to hide their true
form, end up being mostly humanoid in shape. 2. There was no
identifiable warning for the alien attack. It just happened, and it was
sudden. 3. It was through the perspective of every day schmucks who had
to figure it all out on their own. There were no convenient plot
devices like a misc. scientist who just popped up and already knew all
of the answers. 4. The mode of fighting back was a gradual process.
There was no sudden discovery of a super weapon that could kill the
aliens with no issue. 5. It delved MUCH much further into the human
aspect of an alien invasion than I've seen out of a lot of alien
movies. It really made me think of how "normal" people might react in
that situation. */SPOILERS*

It most certainly is not the most creative alien movie I have seen in a
long while, I reserve that for "Paul", but it most certainly was not
"unoriginal". They took the reference of an alien invasion for our
resources, which is a common plot device, but changed the perspective,
eventual solution, and even the antagonistic element. I haven't seen
that since Battle of Los Angeles, though that movie only received a 2
so I guess I shouldn't really be surprised Darkest Hour is getting this
kind of rating. 

Also, not to try and call anyone specific out, but it's easy to say
something like "It's unoriginal" while giving no hint as to what you
think would constitute as an original idea...I keep reading these
reviews that have the phrase "It's unoriginal" stretched out into 3
paragraphs.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea behind the darkest hour was original. It is nice to finally
see something that hasn't been recycled from another movie, game, book,
etc. That being said the main problems in the movie come from a rather
dull open story. It leaves you with many unanswered questions. There
are also many flaws in different aspects of the movie. Being an avid
movie goer I give this a 6 out of 10 because of the original idea. But
it could have been way better had they developed script better. The
other flaw was the lack of graphics. They clearly spent very little on
special effects. I feel that this should have been a TV movie. Not
something to go see in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a bit of fun to watch, nothing special, like an above average
sci-fi channel flick, but fun to watch nonetheless. Hasn't been a box
office hit or getting much in the way of good reviews, but if basic
alien invasion is your cup of tea, you will probably enjoy it too. I
liked the aliens, not your usual lot, and the Moscow sets. The cast
gave decent performances as well. I would have liked to see more of the
invaders and would have liked a few more battle scenes, and could have
enjoyed it just as well without the 3D effects. All things considered,
I will add it to my collection when it's available on disc. Catch this
during a matinée if you must, but you'll probably like it a whole lot
more on a theater's big screen than waiting for HBO.
<|_=00=_|>
It is really hard to understand movie critics and audiences, because
this is a nice movie with an interesting premise and a not so bad
script.

Maybe the characters are a tad bland and nondescript but the story is
entertaining enough and it kept my attention. It has a few clichés but
in the end it was a good way to spend a 90 minutes or so.

The special effect were good enough considering the somewhat low
budget, and the story moves at a good pace.

There are no confusing subplots, romance (it is a story of survival,
there is no time for it) and other distractions.

I give it an 8!
<|_=00=_|>
While maybe not much better than what the ratings and reviews say, at
the very least 'The Darkest Hour' has the fun factor going for it.
There is not much for a plot: your typical alien invasion, where a
group of survivors have to try and survive the attack while in Moscow.

Wait, Moscow?

One of the things I liked here was that there IS originality. Instead
of another American city, or even Tokyo/London, this time around we
watch Moscow under attack. Instead of having to see the characters
running and hiding around the same New York for the nth time, we are
presented an 'unknown' scenario that has a lot of charm going for it.

Another plus is the aliens themselves. Not your typical armor-wearing
soldiers or 'greys', but in here they have a very original design
(bodyless masses of light). It is sad to hear the clichèd excuse for
their invasion, but they are very interesting to see.

Despite these flairs of originality, overall the film suffers from the
typical B-movie sci-fi problems. The blandness of the cast and some
logic-defying situations/developments (every Russian they meet speak
perfect English, for example) are downsides, but the straight-forward
plot, lack of an overly pretentious message and non-boring development
more than compensate.

Overall, this is far from a great film but it is a fun straight-forward
B-movie with some welcome flashes of originality. It more than succeeds
on entertaining, as long as you don't over-blow your expectations.
