
We saw it tonight with about 30 friends at a pre-release screening in
Atlanta. 

Let me say I am a 50-yr-old female film-lover. Sci fi is not my
favorite genre, but I have seen most of the sci fi classics. 

I didn't know what to expect as I am not always a sci-fi comedy fan.
For instance, although mildly entertaining, I wasn't wild about
"Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy". I was wild about some of the cast
members, but not really the film.

So, we arrived and the theatre was packed. They were turning people
away at the door. Although I had qualms and wasn't sure I'd like it, it
turns out I LOVED it! ALL of the audience members seemed to laugh
themselves in to hysterics through much of the film. And the ENTIRE
AUDIENCE CLAPPED WILDLY AT THE END!

WARNING: This movie is NOT for the devoutly religious or for those who
are offended by swearing and sexual references. Period. If you THINK
you might be offended by anti-religion humor, swearing, or sexual
references, then don't go. And I would recommend it for older teens
only; NOT young teens.

Amazingly, during the first 20 minutes or so, I found myself thinking
'This is delightful! If only they could keep it THIS funny for the rest
of the film..... so many comedies start out with a bang and then are
just "tired" by the end of the movie.....' 

But I couldn't have been more wrong. It not only kept up a wonderful
pace, but introduced many great characters along the way.

If you enjoyed "Shaun of the Dead" and "Hot Fuzz", this will be right
up your alley. There were lots of sci fi movie references (Alien, ET,
Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind, Star Wars, Aliens, Predator, etc.) It
had an AWESOME cast, MARVELOUS character development, and a terrific
script that went from sweet and moving, to hilarious, to scary, and
back. It was really SO MUCH FUN! 

It is lewd, it will certainly will be offensive to some American
Christians, and it is totally sci-fi, but it's absolutely hilarious.
So, you sci-fi comedy lovers, GO!! RUN to the theatre to see it on the
big screen. Take friends and enjoy, enjoy, enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I lucked out and received tickets to watch an advance screening of this
movie. I had 0 expectations, the trailer didn't really show much, and
generally went in with an open mind.

Bottom line: no forced laughs and I laughed a plenty. The writing was
absolutely brilliant. The gags are funny, and jokes come in smart and
crude and those who are science fiction fans will get a huge kick out
of how many hidden nods there are everywhere. Simon Pegg and Nick Frost
did a fantastic job penning this script (as well as their acting)and
well executed by Greg Mottola (Superbad and Adventureland). Simply put,
I had a blast and it was just that much satisfying as a film overall.

Personally, I would have given it a 10, but it may be hard to recommend
to a wide audience. I would expect anyone aged from 16 to 30 would
enjoy it the most given the amount of vulgarity in the movie.
Basically, I wouldn't recommend it to my parents because they
definitely will get turned off by it.

I was initially skeptical about Seth Rogan voicing Paul: DON'T WORRY.
He does a great job and you end up loving the character. All the actors
in this film were great and you will enjoy their roles.
<|_=00=_|>
Shaun of the Dead  great. Hot Fuzz  brilliant. Paul, The third
collaboration between the two best friends Simon Pegg and Nick Frost is
another action-packed comedy featuring an alien, guns, and Jason
Bateman. Unlike the previous films the pair starred in, Paul still has
the strong bromance between the two but takes a turn to be more of what
Scott Pilgrim Vs the World was instead of Hot Fuzz.

Scott Pilgrim  directed by Edgar Wright who also directed the first
two films mentioned  was a geek-friendly action comedy. Paul is more
of a geek-friendly comedy. It's crude, so think Superbad (Greg Mottola
had directed that too) instead of Shaun. Then add the whole 'comic'
tone of Scott Pilgrim  the great action scenes but less violent and
amusing ones instead, and two geeks who are into comics rather than in
the comic like Scott Pilgrim was. And add E.T gone comedy with the
voice of Seth Rogen. Plus add a cameo from Sigourney Weaver. Then you
have Paul, a geeky, clever, and very funny film but simultaneously you
then have its problem.

As you could probably figure from the description above, the problem
being said is that Paul tries to pack too much in during the encounter
with the alien itself. The running time is a perfect 104 minutes. But
by the end of those 104 minutes, there are several suggested sub- plots
and alternate directions that could have been taken to reach the
destination. One sub-plot involves Paul shattering Ruth's (Kristen
Wiig) faith. It's an odd film to have a religious subtext in and it
will maybe have questions thrown at in terms of what message is trying
to be said. Nevertheless, those 104 minutes are brimmed with pure
entertainment and the plot is established enough to make sense and not
take a wrong turn.

With an ensemble cast, what makes Paul especially hilarious is how
every character in the film has a moment of comedy gold. That includes
Adam Stevenson  famous writer whom they meet at a Comic-Con festival
and simply has five on-screen minutes. Five amusing on-screen minutes.
Pegg and Frost are as funny as they were before, fizzing chemistry over
Area 51, still the brilliant duo that work better than Pegg and Andy
Serkis did in Pegg's last film Burke and Hare. They're buddies with
mutual buddy-love that are better together than most odd pairings. It's
(probably) guaranteed that they will stay as the best British duo even
off-screen as Thomson and Thompson in the upcoming Tintin film which is
to be directed by veteran sci-fi director Steven Spielberg. It's
reported that Pegg and Frost said that Paul was a love letter to
Spielberg  it sure is an amusing one, and is certainly the best
Valentine-themed film this Valentine's Day.

The pair wrote the screenplay for this film  so expect many
contemporary references  plenty of sci-fi ones  and clever gags. At
times, the jokes can feel a little self indulgent; inside jokes that
would probably confuse most and only careful listeners can interpret
the clever jokes. The majority of the script, however, is a
laugh-a-minute ride with some recurring jokes that become funnier and
funnier throughout. Paul's part of the script gives a big L to The
Green Hornet; Seth Rogen was much funnier off screen. The actor was
miscast as the green superhero so there were dreads of him being
miscast as this green amiable alien but kudos to Pegg and Frost because
this was the perfect script for Rogen to show that The Green Hornet's
failed hilarity wasn't detrimental. Looking at another view, if Rogen
was the screenwriter for Paul, then maybe it would have been of the
dull standard of the Hornet unless he can still write something on par
with Superbad. Imagine that.

Paul may be a funnier film for the more clever/geeky viewer. If that's
the case, the words 'Cult Following' can be seen written all over it.
For all other audience, Pegg and Frost haven't diminished in their
comedy quality from their previous films even though Paul may be
broader than either of them. If Scott Pilgrim was the geekiest film of
last year, Paul definitely wins that title for this year. It may not be
an Out of This World film (pun partially intended) but lays claim to
the most hilarious film of 2011 yet.

Verdict: Your money's worth  Paul is the funniest film there has been
in ages.
<|_=00=_|>
I was on the Irish premier of the movie last Thursday with Simon Pegg
and Nick Frost showing up and saying few words before the movie . First
of all, I would like to say great cast especially Sigourney Weaver ,
Jason Bateman and my two mini stars of the movie Bill Hader and Joe Lo
Truglio as agents Haggard and O'Reilly . The movie its self is very
funny and the script well written , the small alien with voice from
Seth Rogen its very real and well made by CG artists . Obviously the
chemistry between Frost and Pegg is great like always ( you know what
I'm saying if you remember Shaun of the dead or Hot Fuzz )Rogen as
alien is a perfect cast with his IM SMOKING WEED voice and great lines
. In summary well made , great cast , funny script what else do you
need for Friday night . For me seven stars
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a long wait, but finally, for the first time since 2007 Simon
Pegg and Nick Frost team up once again as the unstoppably funny duo.
Their pairing this time isn't quite at the same quality of comedy as
Hot Fuzz or Shaun of the Dead but let's face it, those two movies are
comedy gold. Paul is still hilarious and it is rife with highly
quotable jokes that you can laugh about for days. Plus it has plenty of
great nerdy sci-fi humor that only us true geeks and catch on to. Paul
follows two British tourists in America, Graeme (Pegg) and Clive
(Frost) who are traveling cross-country to visit all of the most famous
UFO sightings in America. While in Area 51 they pick up a hitchhiking
alien named Paul who is excellently voiced by Seth Rogen. Graeme and
Clive quickly learn that agreeing to protect this extraterrestrial is
giving them a lot more than they bargained for as they are chased by
the FBI, hillbillies, and a religious shotgun toting nut job.

If there's one thing I can commend Paul on, it's finally giving us the
satisfaction of an R rated sci-fi comedy. The blend of the two genres
is great and making it a vulgar, violent riot is just what fans needed
with so many lame PG-13 comedies floating around these days. Pegg and
Frost wrote a hilarious script for this movie, one that easily could
have been ruined by a few edits to suit a PG-13 rating. But thankfully
they got to keep it their way and give us something obscenely
entertaining.

Paul isn't one of those profound comedies that breaks the barriers of
typical comedy or goes unforgettably above and beyond, but it is really
funny. The jokes are hilarious almost every time. It's not high brow
comedy by any means and there are a number of fart jokes, gay jokes,
poop jokes, and so on and so forth, but I can't say that they didn't
make me laugh because I most certainly did. But as an added bonus the
film is filled to the brim with sci-fi film references. They range from
blatant, like a set of fireworks that make the Close Encounters of the
Third Kind tone, to as subtle as the band in the bar playing the Mos
Eisley cantina song from Star Wars. This has got to be one of the
nerdiest scripts ever written, and I absolutely loved it. I'm sure
there are a number of references I missed or didn't get, but that's
just because every little thing is a reference to some sort of sci-fi
film or theme. To quote the Brits, "It's brilliant!" There's no two
ways about it, Paul is cast perfectly. Pegg and Frost are obviously
excellent and you couldn't find a better duo of British nerds anywhere.
Seth Rogen does a surprisingly good job voicing the alien, whose
animations are also excellent and add a lot of comedy to the film.
Other supporting characters are great in their roles, like Kristen Wiig
playing the neurotic ex-Christian Ruth Buggs. Jason Bateman plays a
straight man role as the FBI agent leading the chase after Paul and he
is hilarious in his own deadpan way. Bill Hader and Joe Lo Truglio play
two other FBI agents who make a hilarious little side pair of
characters who have their own running jokes and quirks. Then there are
tons of cameos from very recognizable actors such and Jeffrey Tambor,
Janey Lynch, David Koechner, and even Sigourney Weaver. There's hardly
an actor in this film that I don't go, "Hey! I recognize that guy" when
I seem him or her.

Paul by no means transcends the comedy genre but it is no doubt funny.
If you don't find at least some of the humor in this film amusing then
there is something wrong with you. Sure it's cheesy at moments, OK it
can be predictable at times, but as a comedy it really works and it
gave me a solid hour and forty minutes of great entertainment. If you
love a good R rated comedy, go see this movie, and if you're a sci-fi
nerd you have to see this movie just for the fun of catching
references. This is a great little comedy that is plenty of fun to
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
From the trailers, I had come to expect quite a lot from the movie.
Actually I had thought and believed the movie to be more than it
actually was when I was done watching it. Now, I am not saying that the
movie is bad or dull, far from it. The movie is pretty cool and fun,
though there is nothing overly new and inventive about it. And that is
what sort of made the movie a bit tame.

The storyline in "Paul" is good. An alien has crashed on Earth and now
many, many years later he escapes from captivity and hits the road,
where he accidentally bump into Graeme Willy and Clive Gollings. With
the government in chase, Paul and his newfound friends are racing to
get across USA and to get Paul home.

Right, well throughout the movie there was a bunch of subtle and not so
subtle references to other movies. Many of these had me laughing,
because they were hilarious and quite often in your face. And it was
rather surreal to have a country/hillbilly band play the cantina band
music from Star Wars, but it was hilarious.

As for the cast and the acting in the movie. Well, it has long been
established that Simon Pegg (playing Graeme Willy) and Nick Frost
(playing Clive Gollings) have amazing on-screen chemistry and they add
a lot to each other. So it was nice to have another movie with them
working together. Jason Bateman (playing agent Zoil; you will love his
full name when it is revealed) also did a good job. He was cool and to
the point, and his character was really awesome. Bill Hader (playing
Haggard) and Joe Lo Truglio (playing O'Reilly) worked well together as
a goofy police unit, and added some weird comedy to the movie. It was a
shame that Sigourney Weaver (playing The Big Guy) had such a small
role. But despite this, she always delivers a good performance. And I
just loved what was said right after she got punched in the face. That
was one of my favorite movie references in "Paul". Now, Seth Rogen (the
voice of Paul) is not really one of my favorite actors, but he did a
good job with the voice-acting in this movie.

For a comedy, don't expect to be laughing throughout the entire movie.
The movie is driven by a good story and spiced with comedy here and
there. Which in itself is a good combination, and it worked well for
this movie.

Not to forget the CGIs in the movie. They were excellent. The character
Paul was so nicely made, and the textures of his skin, face and eyes
was off the charts. And those effects really helped carry the movie.

"Paul" is a great movie, though it is not Simon Pegg's and Nick Frost's
best movie, it takes a lot to top "Shaun of the Dead". But it is a good
enough attempt, and the movie works well enough all together. A movie
with a great story, some laughs here and there, and it will take you
out of this world.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. Have been a fan of Pegg and Frost since Shaun of
the Dead and enjoy their genius ability to spoof a genre and still make
a thoroughly entertaining and funny movie

This time it's ET, Close Encounters .. , Alien and others that are
lined up and blown out of the water, along with Roswell the FBI and
comic book and gaming nerds. but all done with impeccably good British
taste and style.

Seth Rogan (and I'm not usually a fan of his) is superb as the voice of
the Alien Paul of the title, and a cameo from Sigourney Weaver complete
a superb cast who all acquit themselves well.

The story is set around two British nerds doing a UFO themed tour of
the US which starts at a Comic-Con convention. As they take to the road
they encounter Paul who is being pursued by 'agents'. The chase heats
up and other kooky characters join in and become part of the ensuing
mayhem. I'll say no more... go see.

My only complaint is the overuse of bad language expletives far too
often, and although effective on a few occasions are, largely
unnecessary. and detract from an otherwise excellent script.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this film quite a bit, it is a rare comedy that started kind
of slowly, but continued to get more funny as it went on. Usually I
find a lot of comedies start kind of fast then fade out kind of fast.
This one has two Brits who are in the United States for comic con, the
end all comic book, science fiction, horror and a whole heck of a lot
more conventions. These particular two are into aliens and there to not
only take in the sights and meet a favorite author, but to drive to
some of the famous alien spots out in the west. Well they quickly run
into some trouble with some local rednecks and then end up witnessing a
very bad wreck. They go out to explore the scene and end up meeting
Paul, an alien who is apparently on the run and in the need of
assistance. During the course of their adventure the two Brits must
keep Paul hidden from government agents and also deal with crazy
religious fathers and all sorts of other things one tends to find on
the road. Probably why I liked this one as I always enjoy a good
traveling comedy of which this can certainly be classified as one. I
also enjoy watching Simon Pegg and Nick Frost working together as they
have a good chemistry. They are a couple of the few actors who I will
watch a movie specifically because they are in it. I used to have a
whole slew of actors and actresses like that, but these days not so
much. The comedy is funny, like I said it started a bit slowly as I
think the comic con scenes could have been a bit funnier, but it really
got going once they met up with Paul. Not much of a Seth Rogen fan, but
he did a fine job as the voice of Paul. So all in all a funny comedy
that kept me entertained throughout.
<|_=00=_|>
I like a movie that can make something familiar feel fresh. Paul is
this years Short Circuit, or Starman, or Maybe even Galaxy Quest. Its
merger of crude/rude and witty comedy plus a cast where everyone brings
their A-game, without going too far makes Paul a good watch.

Let's start with top billing. I'll be among the few to say that I
didn't love either Nick Frost or Simon Pegg in the Hot Fuzz/Shawn of
the Dead duo. They wrote themselves with too much 'sour' in mind and
too much self-mockery. For this script, I think they nailed it. Here
they are not simply goofs, they are likable goofs, the parts have been
written with a few more 'straight' moments, and honesty to balance the
satire. 

The two of them are on an RV road trip in the south western states from
Comic-Con to Roswell. Once in New Mexico however, they get perhaps a
little more than they anticipated when they meet the survivor of a car
crash in the middle of the night...a little green man, one who speaks
English, has been on Earth since 1947, and is asking for a lift.

Paul is delightfully beyond the reach of reason. It's actually a
million light years more absurd than Shawn of the dead and Hot Fuzz, so
I felt a little more explanation would've helped. It's not too hard to
draw conclusions about how Paul learnt English, but why is he speaking
it like a punk? He has some really great lines, but he seems way too
human for an Alien. Then again, if he wasn't the movie wouldn't be
quite as funny.

As the movie starts to wrap up, it does so with a lot of spectacle
(perhaps maybe a bit too much). A few too many guns get pointed bullets
get fired for me, but at least the laughs keep coming which is
important.

Paul, creaks a little here and there, but it is appetizing as a comedy
with a buddy movie spirit and a good dose of sci-fi satire.
<|_=00=_|>
Hilarious comedic duo, Simon Pegg and Nick Frost are back this time in
an American spoofish science-fiction adventure in Greg Mottola's
'Paul'. The sci-fi references (Alien, ET, Close Encounters of the 3rd
Kind, Star Wars, Aliens, Predator, etc) are done excellently and had me
laughing out loud. Pegg and Frost are superb as they always are when
working together.

They're effectively supported by the wonderful Kristin Wiig, the
no-nonsense (to an extent) Jason Bateman and Bill Hader. Cameos by Jane
Lynch and David Koechner are equally amusing. There's another sort of
cameo that's revealed in the end and her presence is just the right way
to round up a brilliant cast. Seth Rogan is less annoying than his
usual on screen personas but he still is the weakest link here. He's
pretty much his usual annoying on screen self even though his character
is an alien and it is only the better performances of his co-stars that
actually make Rogan appear less annoying.

Compared to Pegg and Frost's previous works ('Spaced', 'Shaun of the
Dead' and 'Hot Fuzz') which in my opinion are classics, 'Paul' falls a
little short. Some of the jokes, especially the toilet humour delivered
by Rogan, fall flat. It's also lacking in wit. The pacing is a little
slow in the first half but it picks up quickly in the latter portion.
Plot holes are scattered throughout the movie.

In terms of execution, 'Paul' is quite well made. The title character
looks amusing. The cross country location suits the setting.
Cinematography is adequate.

'Paul' may not be a classic like 'Shaun of the Dead' and 'Hot Fuzz' but
it's still funny enough to be entertaining. Where there is Simon Pegg
and Nick Frost, one can always expect to at least laugh.
