
Knight and Day" is a comfort food movie. It's a pleasant diversion, a
fun time at the cinema that doesn't ask a lot of of it's audience and
offers an enjoyable ride. We've seen it all before, but it worked
pretty well then, and it works pretty well now.

June Havens (Cameron Diaz) is an average perky blonde romantic comedy
heroine who runs into the charming and mysterious Roy Miller (Tom
Cruise) at the airport, and is sucked into a series of misadventures
when Roy turns out to be a secret agent fighting rogue elements in his
own agency . . . or maybe HE's the rogue agent . . . It depends on who
she listens to. there's a mysterious device called the Zephyr that Roy
is either protecting or trying to steal. All of this is fairly
predictable, and, again, nothing new. But director James Mangold
("Copland", "Walk the Line", "3:10 to Yuma") always knows how to make a
film play, and his skills haven't deserted him here. His pacing is
brisk and fun, and he stages some terrific action (including one
sequence from Diaz' point of view that did feel genuinely new).

Of course, this is a star vehicle, and whether you enjoy it will depend
a lot on how you feel about Tom Cruise. Dismissing his personal life as
utterly irrelevant, I find him to be a solid and dependable actor who
does action better than almost anyone in Hollywood. And, here, he gets
a rare chance to flex his comic muscles, and hie's quite funny (though
too much of the best material is in the trailer). Diaz is pleasant, but
tries a little too hard to be cute. And, occasionally, the film itself
has the same problem.

But, overall, it's a funny little spy movie. part adventure, part
romcom. Not destined for any Ten Best Lists, but enjoyable summer
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Critics feared the worst when word surfaced that re-shoots, re-writes
and re-edits for this much-delayed, much-troubled film were still going
on as late as May 2010 - barely seven weeks prior to its scheduled
release. Pre-screenings were limited, and thumbs were primed to point
down. But guess what? The finished product is surprisingly enjoyable -
particularly the rollicking first hour. Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz are
obviously having a blast, and anytime they are on screen, the movie's
energy and fun level pegs the meter. The break-neck pace can keep the
audience guessing about where Cruise's character is dragging Diaz's
reluctant heroine off to next. Kudos to the leads for not carrying the
movie with their effervescent acting, but also for doing many of their
own stunts.
<|_=00=_|>
We saw the Saturday sneak preview for Knight and Day, cautiously
optimistic for a film that has had almost no reviews despite the fact
it releases on Wednesday. To avoid spoilers, I'll make this simple:

The Good * Tom Cruise turns in a star performance, and Diaz holds her
own. * Story has several twists and turns * Walks a fine line between
comedy and action well (for the most part) * I never looked at my watch
once and the film running time flew by

The Not So Good * CGI is weak and there is a lot of it * Can get a
little campy from time to time * Predictable 

Overall this was quite entertaining. If your expecting an Oscar caliber
film you will be disappointed. If your looking for some above average
summer fun buy your ticket without hesitation!
<|_=00=_|>
Jump-starting the Mysterious Plot Summer Season (Knight and Day, Salt,
Inception, Piranha 3-D), Knight and Day is quite an interesting thrill
ride that's very fresh in the midst of a summer season with very little
originality. With the two leads delivering charismatic, fun, and great
performances, this movie is propelled by star power, intrigue, and
never allowing the audience to be one step ahead of the flick. The
twists and turns may have been a little unnerving, and the movie does
suffer from being quite vague at times, the overall package is a fun
one. Unlike most summer clunkers (there was some robot movie last year
that was dismally pathetic, if only I remember the name) this one is
forgivable for its flaws because of its style, loose direction, and
freshness.

Without revealing too much (trust me, predicting the movie from the
trailer will do you no good), Knight and Day follows a secret agent
(Tom Cruise) that accidentally involves a bystander (Cameron Diaz) in
the middle of a crazy fight spanning multiple agencies and multiple
countries. Written by Patrick O'Neal, this script is very unique, very
refreshing, and at times quite off-the-wall. The story moves very fast,
but has time for some character development and character
revelationsÂ—even if they become little blurbs here and there. The only
issue is that characters are revealed in such quick and awkward
manners, but it might be more an editing issue rather than a writing
issue.

Cameron Diaz and Tom Cruise were perfect for their leading roles here.
Cameron Diaz has an undeniable charm that has made her not only a major
box office draw over the years, but one of the few actresses that can
carry any movie past mediocrity. At the same time, Tom Cruise also has
the ability to propel movies with his impeccable charm and subtle
timing. So, naturally, with these two together, movie magic is
accomplished. Just like in Vanilla Sky (even if the editing and
obscurity allowed the movie to collapse), Knight and Day is
jump-started and propelled by Diaz and Cruise acting together. Their
comic timing is great, and can still deliver the emotions when you need
them to. Everyone else did a respectable job, but they consisted of
dozens of small roles.

The movie however suffers from one major flaw: potential. This movie
could have been something very special if it had been given a little
more love, a bit more budget, and better editing. James Mangold is
heavily varied in his directing resume (Cop Land, Walk the Line,
Identity, 3:10 to Yuma) so he has the ability to run an action film
(unlike the indie-director of the last James Bond flick). But, the
movie does this mildly irritating thing in which it sets up potential
action sequences, but skips them entirely. While the movie does offer
plenty of action, this irritating directing/editing blunder was done at
least three times. The fact that it could have done so much more
doesn't distract from the overall quality, but does unveil its
potential. With a budget of over $120 million, Knight and Day looks
like an action movie that was running out of cash.

The action that we do get to see is plentiful, and fun. Plausibility
and realism takes a timeout as we get insane chases, dozens of
explosions, and plenty of fights. There is very little slowdown, very
little time for the audience to breathe. The CGI is sometimes a bit
much, but doesn't distract too much from the movie. Adding to the
mayhem is the dozens of plot twists and turns, which range from small,
to changing the flick entirely. Unfortunately, it seems like it was
edited by someone with a samurai sword and too much sugar in his blood.

Bottom Line: While it could have been so much more, and could have
really been something truly special, Knight and Day is still an
admirable movie thanks to its leads---even if age is starting to catch
up to them. With a crazy script edited in a crazy manner, this movie is
far from your average summer movie, and is a mildly refreshing visual
trip around the world. No sequel or remake connections here, as the
plot is unique, even if the action is your usual CGI-heavy fare. The
directing, editing, and content choices however keep it from truly
hitting the big leagues. But if you want something different and
sequel-free to watch this summer (without screaming for mercy as the
movie continues), then Knight and Day is your flick. Unique concept,
unique movie, unique flaws.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Knight and Day" tonight at an advanced screening. I really liked
it. For me, I considered it more of a comedy, rather than a thriller.
Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz have great chemistry, and did wonderful
line deliveries of several running jokes. Their facial expressions,
non-verbal actions, and then their unique line delivery - just made
everything fit together into a delightful comedy. You will enjoy
yourself and laugh out loud. Tom Cruise does a great job of reminding
us why we like him as a performer and actor. (Recently, I think too
many of us have been side-tracked by his off-camera non-PC comments and
antics; so it's good to get back to the basics, that he really is a
wonderful actor.) Cameron Diaz is funny, warm,beautiful, and spunky. I
loved the way these two actors interacted with each other. Well done. I
know another reviewer here kept dropping "Oscar award winning" several
times - but for myself, I would not go that far. I don't think this has
the emotional depth that you'd think of for an Oscar; but nevertheless,
I think this is a delightful funny movie that will make you laugh and
enjoy an evening out. I recommend this movie. You will feel good.
<|_=00=_|>
*** out of (****)

I just came back from an advanced screening of "Knight and Day" and I
have to say, I was extremely impressed. I, as well as you, are tired of
formulaic Hollywood movies that are disposable and provide little to no
new elements to the table. This is the exact opposite of what the final
product is of this film. "Knight and Day" brings many twists and turns,
it is far from by-the-numbers, and is easily unforgettable. For
starters, the action is quite remarkable and pretty darn satisfying.
And the movie was just hilarious and had great comic timing. It should
mean something when I tell you that the crowded audience was laughing.
Not just a few people, the WHOLE audience and they took up almost all
the seats. "Killers", a movie that fits under the action/comedy genre
was one that I was looking forward to, but was a huge letdown. "Knight
and Day" definitely doesn't disappoint and brings the laughs, with the
big action. This movie is probably the most fun I've had in a while,
and this is coming from a very harsh grader and someone that is let
down very easily due to high expectations.

"Knight and Day" revolves around Cameron Diaz, who is boarding a plane
to see her sister April get married. At first, she is forbidden to
board the plane, but then the flight attendant finds a seat for her.
And guess who Diaz sits next to? The inevitable Tom Cruise. After
having a little "talk" with the pilot, the passengers, and the flight
attendant, him and Diaz seek out to hunt down the antagonists, one
which is played by Peter Sarsgaard. Although, Cruise warns Diaz that
the bad guys will say that they are the "FBI" and will pretend she's in
a safe place. However, through further investigation, Diaz may think
that Cruise is unto something. In the meantime, the bad guys are
looking for the battery and are not too thrilled about who holds its
possession.

First, let's get to the positives. First off, I liked that this movie
established character development. Most action/comedy films fail to
fully flesh out are leads and then we aren't registered with them. 3:10
to Yuma director makes us care about these characters, and when put in
a tough situation, we just hope the best. Second of all, I thought the
script was great. I thought this movie had some really funny one-liners
and the film had great comic timing. It couldn't have been better.
Thirdly, I thought that the performances were great. All the characters
did their job and even stood out, especially Cameron Diaz and Tom
Cruise. Diaz and Cruise also had wonderful chemistry and their
relationship never felt forced or phony. It came out as very authentic
rather than artificial and syrupy. Moreover, I thought the film's
pacing was excellent. The film is shy of two hours, yet feels like half
of that. After the film was over, I thought there would be at least
another hour added. Furthermore, I thought the action was awesome. It
definitely delivered and this is the best action I've seen in a long
time. And lastly, the cinematography was just amazing. I loved the
scenery and great production values I must add.

There are very minimal flaws with this movie. However, there are some.
First of all, I know this film is intentionally nonsensical, but some
scenes went so over-the-top, that when it occasionally was meant to be
serious, it came off as cheesy or laugh worthy, fortunately, like I
said, occasionally. Second of all, I enjoyed this movie so much that I
just wish it were longer. 

Overall, "Knight and Day" is a great film because of its fresh script,
great performances, amazing action, great comic timing, breathtaking
cinematography, and a fascinating direction. And for the first time,
it's actually not mindless! If you keep your brain on, you'll still
thoroughly enjoy it. If you were disappointed by "Killers", don't
worry, so was I, because you will still like this movie. Shoot, I
enjoyed it so much I think it's even better than "Mr. & Mrs. Smith"
which I liked. "Knight and Day" is one of those rare movies that just
works on every level and is one of those rare movies that is worth full
admission. See it at night with a large crowd, with a big bucket of
popcorn, and a drink, and you'll have a blast. I enjoyed the movie so
much that I wanted it to last from "Knight" to "Day". It comes highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I had hopes for this film from the previews I'd seen. It lived up
to what I had anticipated. Very humorous banter, action flowed well,
never a dull moment and the acting and chemistry worked for my wife and
I. I'm not sure why there is any comparison to Mr. and Mrs. Smith as I
couldn't see any communality other than there being a woman and man in
the title character. Anyway, if you're looking for an entertaining
movie that moves well and is pretty funny then you'll like this film.
Not going to make it for an Emmy but certainly delivers on what it was
expected to deliver. Didn't mention this but for some reason they had
one showing at our Cinemark and so bought some tickets in the morning.
Definitely worth the ticket price.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally a great action flick with the perfect combination of action,
humor, story, and romance. The cast was fantastic and so was the
overall feel of the film. I also really enjoyed how every detail wasn't
just bluntly explained....i have a brain, thanks for realizing.
Everyone in the theater seemed to love it, lot's of laughs...seriously,
i haven't laughed that much at the movies in a while. And it also kept
my complete attention throughout the entire film...and with some
serious ADD that says a lot. So.. if i can close with anything..it's to
just go see this movie. Don't over expect anything because this is my
opinion, but definitely see it. I personally think you won't be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
People will cast around for comparisons to explain what 'Knight and
Day' copies most. Is it Brad and Angelina in Mr. and Mrs. Smith? Not
really, but certainly dozens of sources have been gleefully plundered.
A close comparison is early 'Bourne,' with Diaz's Franka Potente to
Cruise's Matt Damon, but with the humor, braggadocio, and indifference
to logic of the original James Bond stories.

This couple in adversity, like the 'Bourne' one, is a linkage that
comes about seemingly by accident when Joan Havens (Diaz) happens to
wind up on a nearly empty plane to Kansas City that Roy Miller (Cruise)
hijacks, after its crew tries to kill him. Miller is a CIA man, or a
former one. He's gone rogue, or so some say. He's also in possession of
some kind of inexhaustible energy source MacGuffin thingie created by a
brilliant teenager nerd pal of his called Simon Feck (Paul Dano).
Naturally everybody wants to get hold of this thingie, and later of
young Simon. Sarsgaard is a CIA agent called Fitzgerald who's chasing
Roy, and his boss is a black lady called Isabel (Viola Davis). Joan,
who rebuilds classic American cars, is on her way to her sister's
wedding. The greatest tribute to Roy's skill and a sign of his
attention to the human side of things is that he gets her to the
wedding, after a few car explosions and chases and dozens of dead
bodies. Roy has two main ways of relating to people. He kisses them or
he kills them. There isn't time for much else. Cruise carries this off
with panache. Diaz is equal to the demands of her role: ditsy -- but
glamorous and sexy -- blonde who's also a Charlie's Angel.

When the stuff happens on the plane at the beginning, it's not remotely
believable. It isn't meant to be. How believable is any blockbuster
action? How believable is anything anywhere? 'Knight and Day'
establishes right away (watch how the plane rocks when there's
turbulence) that this is a garish, over-the-top comedy. The ridiculous
opening sequence clearly establishes that this is an outrageous comedy
-- and a romance -- as much as it's an actioner. The filmmakers are
simply betting that the vivacity of the action and the charm of the
stars will get you involved and that involvement will grow rather than
diminish as the story progresses. The action is preposterous, but the
protagonists are in trouble, so you forget it's silly and start to
worry -- but you don't forget to laugh, and you're meant to. The movie
manages to ramp up all three aspects and keep the cocktail stirred.
This is a shameless effort to appeal simultaneously to three different
genre demographics: Comedy, Action, Romance. And it just may succeed.

Is this Ron Miller (Tom Cruise) a man on a crucial mission -- or an
out-of-control nut case? This is the question this movie poses, and
this is a role that both Cruise's friends and his enemies may find
appropriate. . . But to stick with this movie and enjoy its wild
action-romance-comedy ride, you need to set aside any feelings the
actor's couch-jumping antics may have awakened and focus on the great
movies he has been in, observe how well he and ace comedienne Cameron
Diaz work together, and there's entertainment to be had here.

'Knight and Day' is completely empty and pointless, but also quite a
lot of fun. It's too long (like so many of the new pictures), and
contains such a rich, indigestible mÃ©lange of action stuff --
somersaulting cars exploding on highways, shootouts, chases, fires --
and such lush locations, including Pamplona at bull run time,
picturesque Austrian towns, Langley, and the Orient Express, you feel
overfed. But then you walk out and it's all, pleasantly, forgotten,
except for Tom Cruise's manic smile and Cameron Diaz's look of
wide-eyed astonishment, which are enough to take home from a summer
blockbuster in a season when one of the NY Times' lead critics praises
Jonah Hex and Pixar's strung-out third installment of Toy Story is
hailed as a masterpiece.

Empty of solid content though it may be, 'Knight and Day' succeeds, for
one thing, because it does something woefully lacking in today's
blockbusters -- alternates the heavy action with quiet times. Here,
they're usually romantic pauses, in which the lady (Diaz) changes into
something more comfortable. Joe Carnahan, who has a sense of humor and
knows his way around tough-guy scenes, should have kept this in mind
when he made 'The A-Team,' a movie that never lets up and consequently
leaves you just feeling weary. You remember nothing but Liam Neeson
puffing on cigars in a movie he should never have been in. 'Knight and
Day' has sense enough to give its leads appropriate roles and let you
catch your breath every now and then.

In development, this movie went through various titles; the one it
landed with, 'Knight and Day,' only makes sense at the end and even
then won't hit you over the head with its logic. 'K & D' also went
through many writers -- at least nine. Considering that, it's a tribute
to director and cast that the whole thing hangs together as well as it
does and the different sequences don't just feel like pieces in a
disassembled puzzle.

Tom Cruise's character is invincible and his accidental partner, Joan,
tends to get overexcited or lose her ability to cope with the gangs of
assassins, the 90-mile-an-hour car chases, and the explosions and Roy
resorts to drugging her so he can whisk them both safely away. From
being scared and dubious, Joan begins to have more and more confidence
in Roy and as this turns to attraction she shows startling abilities of
her own: "you've got skills," Roy tells her. Indeed. And however
preposterous, so does 'Knight and Day.'
<|_=00=_|>
As you know from my reviews, I hate romantic comedies. Especially PG-13
one's that refuse to take any risks what-so-ever and are so family
friendly that it becomes ridicules. But when I see stronger performers
like Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz, I have a little more faith. Now
granted, not the best actors of our time, but I'd rather see them than
Ashton Kutcher and Katherine Heigl. So I wanted to give this movie a
very fair chance and over all as predictable and stupid as it was, I
still had a good time watching it. There were some really stupid
moments, but if something is funny, why not laugh? Tom Cruise is great
at playing this smooth killer agent and Cameron Diaz was also good as
the naive bystander who just happens to be in the wrong place at the
wrong time when she meets him. What makes this film work in my opinion
is the chemistry between Cruise and Diaz, they have worked together
before in Vanilla Sky. I thought they were pretty decent together then
and now they're showing that they can really work together well in a
film. They made this stupid story work.

Roy Miller and June Havens bump into each other twice at the airport.
Completely taken with Miller, Havens goes to the restroom; and the
remaining passengers all attack Roy, he calmly informs June that
everyone on the plane is dead, including the pilots. Believing it a
joke, Junr plays along until Roy enters the cockpit. Crashing into a
corn field, Miller delivers Havens home after drugging her and
explaining that other agents will visit and that they are planning to
kill or imprison her. The next day June is picked up by a group of
intelligence agents. Roy arrives and, through a long gunfight on the
highway, kills several agents and saves June. Roy explains that June is
safer with him; and she agrees to follow him as they go to pick up
Simon Feck, a genius inventor who created a perpetual energy battery
called the Zephyr. As it turns out that Roy is being framed by his
former partner saying that he will sell the Zephyr to terrorists. But
June must figure out who she can trust in this crazy situation.

While the story is beyond predictable and we have to have a lot of
suspension in disbelief with it as well, I think it's something you can
enjoy if you just let go and have a good time. I hate saying this as
you know how I feel about this genre of romantic comedy. But it's one
of those movies you could get a very good chuckle out of. I loved the
scene where Cameron is taken by the FBI for the first time and she gets
into a nasty car chase as people are shooting at her and Cruise just
lands on top of her car like it's something he does every day and just
talks to her calmly. Also the scene between her, her ex boyfriend and
Cruise in the diner was very funny. Like I said, it's the actors that
make this lousy story work, even if the characters are under developed.
I think this movie is an example of mindless fun, so just let go and
have fun with this one.

6/10
