
Yes, the whole concept is absurd, and as a result the film will
probably take a lot of criticism, but I really enjoyed every minute of
it at an early screening this evening. I enjoy Kevin Costner's work
except when he tries to go action hero and he is thankfully getting too
old for that unless he decides to buy growth hormone from Stallone or
something. He was terrific in Mr. Brooks and he excels once again in a
totally different role. It is the sort of character that he does best,
more akin to his "Bull Durham" role.

The real find of the film was Madeline Carrol who played his daughter.
She joins Abagail Breslin, Dakota Fanning , and Anna Sophia Robb in a
current crop of extremely talented tweeners.

I enjoyed the entire cast and it was great to see Judge Reinhold for
the first time in awhile.

The whole concept of how Costner's vote becomes so important is one
that is hard to swallow, but if you go along for the ride I promise
that you will have a great time.

Late in the film Mare Winningham appears in perhaps the films most
powerful though least appropriate scene. It is her only scene. I
believe it was used to hammer in a serious message though the scene had
little to do with the message of the film other than shift to a more
sober mood. Sober may not have been the best choice of words to
describe the scene though.

One of the nicer aspects of the film is its terrific music. A mix of
tunes from several decades centered around Marshall Tucker's "Can't You
See" really makes for a nice soundtrack.

Ultimately the film has a great message about the importance of one
person, one vote. And if it gets a lot more democrats(whoops I mean
Americans) to vote this year, then in my opinion it will have done a
great public service in addition to being solidly entertaining. And no,
it does not have a liberal agenda, so all you Rush fans need to hold
judgment before slamming the film. Unlike this reviewer, the film is
really good at not taking a political stance. The film depicts all
politicians as if they would stoop to anything to get elected, and
garners a lot of laughs with that premise.

I want to add one last thing. I would call this a family movie except
for the profanity. I took my 9 year old precocious daughter and she
loved it, but there was actually a running joke about Costner's
character's love of swearing. So if a little swearing and some
references to controversial issues (abortion, gay marriage, legal pot)
are OK with you, bring the kids. Like I said, it does have a good
message.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Costner is adorable as the slacker father of a overachieving,
12-year-old daughter. The kid-as-parent/parent-as-kid premise wouldn't
have worked nearly as well if Costner's character, Bud Johnson, weren't
so darn lovable. If you're looking for perfectly coiffed, cleaned up
Costner, you won't find him here. He mostly looks like your husband
first thing in the morning -- you know, the scruffy hair, unshaven
face, and glazed over, half-asleep look where you wonder what you ever
saw in him? But inside is a heart of gold? He pulls this role off to
perfection. He's the lovable underachiever always with a clueless grin.

When the attorney general shows up at his door to tell him basically
that he has the deciding vote, Bud's only comment, in a half-whisper
is, "Does this mean I'm going to have to do jury duty?" The movie is
good -- in fact if you like Dave with Kevin Kline, you'll like Swing
Vote.

However, it tried to combine two movies. One was the comedy with Bud
being the ONLY voting demographic needing to be catered to -- hence,
personal appearances by Richard Petty and Willie Nelson -- the other
was a sometimes hard-to-watch story of a daughter, played by Madeline
Carroll, caring for her alcoholic father.

Carroll is a wonderful actress, and would be stellar in a drama. Her
wistful, knowing looks at her father's helplessness, and her astute
understanding of her mother's inability to be a mother were
heart-wrenching. That could have been an entire story in itself and
often took away from the comic elements. Mare Winningham was fantastic
as the mother who ran away. She, Costner and Carroll really clicked on
screen in their one scene together as a family torn apart by the
selfish indulgence of the parents to the detriment of the child who
deserves more. I marveled at that scene until I remembered that
Winningham and Costner were in the movie "The War" as parents torn
apart by Vietnam to the detriment of their son, young Elijah Wood.
Costner and Winningham should get together again in a more upbeat film.
Their relationship is very natural.

But in spite of the sad, child-having-to-be-the-adult part of Swing
Vote, it was 80% comedy, and Costner's antics made it laugh out loud
funny at times. It didn't seem to be politically bent one way or the
other. It was patriotic and commented on immigrants from Mexico taking
away jobs from Americans. But it was also pro-environment and touched
on lack of health care for the many. The end was pure feel-good.
Everyone changed appropriately, realizing the true (Hollywood) meaning
of voting in America.
<|_=00=_|>
My son tells me that I don't understand what young people think is
funny. And he's right. I'm not into cringe comedies like Borat or teen
sex comedies like Superbad. So when I give Swing Vote 9 out of 10, I
guess I have to limit my recommendation to those over 50. If you're too
young to remember Kevin Costner's last great movie, I'm not so sure
you'll like this one. You see, no one gets humiliated and you don't
hear any jokes about sex or bodily functions. It's an old-fashioned
comedy that my wife, my cousin and I, all near 60, loved. If you are in
that age range, ignore the critics and the IMDb rating. We laughed all
the way through. The editing is fast paced so that you never get bored.
Some critics have criticized Swing Vote for being lightweight, but it
is really more dramedy than straight comedy. There are several serious
themes including divorce and civic responsibility. This is Costner's
best performance in many years. And Madeline Carroll, who plays his
daughter, is amazing. Watch out, Dakota Fanning and Abigail Breslin.
This girl can play comedy and drama with equal aplomb. The scene where
she cries in front of her class brought many to tears in our audience.
<|_=00=_|>
"Swing Vote" is a good movie. It could have been great, but it isn't,
but it is still good. At its best, it invokes Frank Capra's classic
films on politics, including "Meet John Doe" and "Mr. Smith Goes to
Washington." It never reaches their level, though, and that failure to
hit the top is a bit frustrating.

An older, dumpier, and shabbier Kevin Costner is the best part of the
film. Costner is a star and that shows here. Even the grunge that is
his costume in almost every scene can't disguise his charisma.
Costner's voice has not aged and he uses it to great effect, especially
in a final speech.

The film draws laughs by parodying our two major political parties,
with a Democratic presidential candidate starring in the funniest
anti-abortion TV commercial ever made (no doubt its competition was
slim, but it is very funny) and a Republican presidential candidate
touting his party's tender concern for the environment.

These excellent scenes make you wish that the movie had gone deeper. It
doesn't, though. It veers off into dead-end soap opera subplots about
Costner's daughter's boyfriend from school and her attempt to live with
her estranged mother (Mare Winningham, in a role that should have ended
up on the editing room floor, as it contributes nothing to the film.)
The casting wasn't great. The two presidential candidates and their
aids end up being cardboard cut-out stereotypes of Machiavellian evil
(Stanley Tucci) and compromise (Nathan Lane). Kelsey Grammar and Dennis
Hopper, as the candidates, never transcend their "Frasier" and "Easy
Rider" personas. Other actors, perhaps unknowns, should have been cast
in these two key roles.

Paula Patton, the woman who played what would have been the Barbara
Stanwyck role in the Frank Capra movie, was pretty as a little doll and
a complete bore. This is part of a pattern in today's Hollywood; female
leads must have the perfectly perky looks of a plastic doll; there's no
need for them to be talented. Male leads, like Costner, can be beat-up,
and slovenly, but must be talented. Patton's role, that of the
desperate, sharp, female reporter who gains inside knowledge of a
national story, is underwritten, and she does nothing with it. It's a
dead-end, and that's a shame. It makes me want to rewatch "Meet John
Doe" in which Stanwyck worked so well as the female reporter.

Overall, though, this movie is better than much else at the multiplex,
and it at least ventures into the world of ideas.
<|_=00=_|>
I expected little after the lukewarm critical response. The film is not
a scathing satire of right-wing hypocrisy. But it is inspired. And rare
for this genre, balanced. It's target is voter complacency and the
winning-is-everything bloodsport of the presidential race. Believe it
or not the film makes a good case for voting as a moral choice, a
choice we should take seriously. Not the stuff of Hollywood hilarity
for sure. Yet it is well-acted, charming and original. Hard to guess
where the story is going. Great laughs are better for being unexpected.

Liberal-leaning viewers and critics may have been disappointed based on
a trailer showing Dennis Hopper as a rapid pro-life candidate. The
story here is about voters. And how far our major political parties are
willing to go to court the swing vote. The genius of this film is that
it takes targeted campaigning to its logical conclusion. This is the
stuff professional persuaders are more and more paid to do.

Not perfectly executed, but an inspired premise with better than
expected follow-though. A treat. So glad I went.

P.S. full disclosure, I am a very liberal Democrat.
<|_=00=_|>
If the 2000 Presidential election could be decided by a single county
in Florida (with a little help from the United States Supreme Court, of
course), imagine what it would be like if the decision ever came down
to a single individual voter! That's the scenario put forth by "Swing
Vote," a political fantasy that will probably be remembered more for
launching the career of a talented young actress than for any insight
it might offer into the political process.

Bud Johnson is a working-class divorced dad who lives in a broken-down
trailer with his bright, twelve-year-old daughter, Molly - a youngster
who is as astute and savvy about real world issues and politics as her
father is ignorant and apathetic. Through a complicated fluke of fate,
Bud finds himself in the unenviable position of being the sole swing
vote in an otherwise deadlocked presidential contest. Suddenly, Bud is
living in the glare of the media spotlight, besieged by candidates,
campaign managers, handlers, celebrities and various special interest
groups all vying for his vote.

Political satire rarely works on screen for the simple reason that it
is either so slanted (usually towards the liberal side) that it winds
up preaching mainly to the converted, or it's kept so inoffensive and
generic that it loses any edge it might have had and becomes an
exercise in watered-down, self-congratulatory Capraesque populism.
"Swing Vote," oddly enough, falls into both categories at once - with
conservatives likely to view it as little more than a two-hour
commercial for the Democratic Party (or at least the issues they stand
for) and move on. In strictly cinematic terms, "Swing Vote," co-written
by Jason Richman and Joshua Michael Stern and directed by Stern, is
really two movies folded into one. The first is a sometimes touching
story of a father/daughter relationship in which the child is parent to
the father. Kevin Costner (who pretty much financed the project
himself) pours on the charm as a boozy, irresponsible slacker who's
more interested in popping open a beer can and plopping down in front
of the TV set than in actively rearing his daughter. Relative newcomer
Madeline Carroll is a real find as the no-nonsense,
wise-beyond-her-years Molly who takes care of her dad and isn't afraid
to speak truth to power when the situation calls for it. Whenever the
film is concentrating on the interplay between these two characters, it
hits a responsive chord in the viewer. In fact, the scene in which
Molly confronts the alcoholic mother who abandoned her (wonderfully
played by Mare Winningham) makes for some genuinely powerful and
gripping human drama.

Unfortunately, the second and much larger portion of the film (that is
to say, the political part) doesn't fare nearly so well. Its revelation
that politics is a dirty business - i.e. that it often prizes empty
platitudes and sound bites over exploring issues of substance, and that
it appeals to voters' greed, fears, ignorance and prejudices to win
votes - is hardly an earth-shattering one at this late stage of the
game, true though it may be. The film has lots of big-name stars -
Kelsey Grammar, Dennis Harper, Nathan Lane, Stanley Tucci, George
Lopez, Judge Reinhold - and a number of actual TV pundits and
commentators throwing themselves into their roles with admirable
aplomb, but the material isn't clever or sharp enough to really deliver
the goods. Everyone, except for the two main characters, is quickly
reduced to a "type" and the attempts at political parody are fairly
obvious and lightweight compared to what we find in venues like "The
Daily Show" or "The Colbert Report." 

"Swing Vote"'s clarion call for all individuals to take their
responsibility as citizens seriously and to become actively involved in
the political process can't help but be uplifting and inspiring,
especially in a presidential election year. The filmmakers just needed
a bolder, more sophisticated vehicle from which to sound that call.

My advice is to look past all the political nonsense and concentrate on
the beautiful performance by the young Ms. Carroll instead - and be
present at the birth of a brand new star.
<|_=00=_|>
It sounds implausible and impossiblethat a man's accidental flub-up in
the voting booth causes his vote to stall the election and
coincidentally determine the next U.S. President. But Swing Vote has a
great time using that as a platform to tell a really cool tale.

Besides, the movie wants to move past that impossibility anyway
(suspension of disbelief, right?), and into the fun stuff. Swing Vote
isn't necessarily about the likelihood of the above-mentioned
phenomenon occurring; it's about bigger things, things like the nature
of freedom in America, the right to vote, politicians and their
campaigns, and various issues that unite and divide America as a
nation.

Ernest "Bud" Johnson (Kevin Costner) is a beer-drinking, blue-collar
simpleton whose wife left both him and his daughter, Molly, for a
Nashville singing career. Molly (Madeline Carroll), a precocious little
girl who is passionate about politics and the preservation of her
country, and unfortunately for her, Bud couldn't care less, even if her
were sober. Molly seems to be the parent in the relationship, taking
care of Bud's daily hangovers and prodding him to get up for work.

Molly is in constant frustration with her father's apathy toward life
and her interests, and is perturbed when Bud seemingly sets in motion
an ironic, history-making turn of events where his vote actually ends
up being the deciding factor in the election. This forces the
Presidential candidates to campaign only to win Bud's vote. Along the
way we are treated to a satirical look at the lengths campaign managers
and the candidates will go simply to get a vote.

How this plays out is both hilarious and sobering, as well as inspiring
and totally enjoyablethanks to some good storytelling and direction,
as well as an excellent cast of talented actors who make this movie
shine. The brightest stars on the screen, however, are Kevin Costner
and Madeline Carroll as Bud and Molly. Costner has found a perfect role
in the dimwitted Bud, and Carroll as Molly is a brilliant young actor
whose performance almost brought me to tears at one point.

Like I mentioned before, though, Swing Vote is not a simple "voting is
your civic duty" story. While the importance of voting is emphasized as
both a privilege and a blessing in a great country, Swing Vote goes
over the issues that affect daily life in America, and through the
story reminds us how we can take some sort of action to better that
life.

However, Swing Vote is careful not to play too much on the emotional
arguments regarding various issues like abortion, immigration and gay
marriage, making the movie all the more charming. There are a few
emotionally charged scenes in the movie that give weight to the
hilarity throughout, but within the context of the film, the story
never speaks in self-righteousness.

At one point, Molly makes a simple yet convicting commentary about how
much she appreciates her father at a "Bring Your Father to School" Day.
Without giving too much away, Molly's emotional message about her
father is a hopeful and heart-wrenching commentary about the beauty and
freedom of America, along with the tragic complacency and apathy of its
people.

And rather than going down the typical Hollywood route and picking a
more liberal stance, Swing Vote instead manages to poke fun at everyone
on both "sides" of various issues. It carefully gives respect to all
Americans, while pointing out absurdities in America's political
process. Although the mockery is at times absolutely hilarious, the
film's humor never ventures into the vile and mean-spirited. There is
purpose behind all the fun, and it is carefully crafted into the story,
with the goal of giving a message of hope and focusing on the
(hopefully) common goal of compassion, care, peace, and freedom to all
people (to all Americans, anyway).

In that sense, Swing Vote could almost be seen as patriotic (even the
movie's production design seems to have red, white, and blue hues
throughout). There are many inspiring moments that make you think,
"Wow, America is a great country," and "Shame on me for taking my
freedom for granted." Okay, well, that's a little simplistic; but
you'll understand what I mean: Swing Vote is an American story with a
clear and powerful message.

It may be convicting in its truthful satire and simple wit, but it is
also encouraging in that it promotes the hope that we can make a better
country by actively changing (ourselves and our country) and refusing
to passively observe our nation's future unfold... not only for us, but
for generations to come.
<|_=00=_|>
This was obviously meant to remind you of the 2000 election fiasco in
Florida. The film basically centers around Kevin Costner's character,
who is lazy, irresponsible, and a mess-but he's lovable and fun. His
vote will make the difference in giving either candidate (Kelsey
Grammar or Dennis Hopper) New Mexico's five electoral votes, which will
push him over the limit to win. Both candidates then devise a series of
ads pitched specifically at him. There were themes about
responsibility, being informed, and hogging your time in the limelight
during your 15 minutes of fame during this film. I think it was
hilarious and was truly surprised by the ending. See it!!! *** out of
****
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I should state that I love pretty and lovely kids very
much. Therefore I was attracted deeply by cute Molly at first sight and
spoke highly of this film.

Molly is indeed a smart girl in my opinion and in many scenes her
behavior are far more appropriate and pleasant than her father's. She
even acts as a housekeeper and arranges almost everything in good order
while her father---Bud---are always drunk and addicted to
entertainment.

The plot "a nobody becomes the voice of everybody" is too unbelievable
and dramatic, but it does happen. As the plot unfolds, I saw many
ridiculous decisions by two candidates for the presidency in order to
cater to Bud. In addition, I also realized how freedom was widespread
in USA and learned more about the policy on selecting the president.

What I highly praise is the impressive plot that Molly suggest Bud to
have a debate between two candidates which is an extremely excellent
idea personally. In addition, it shows when you become a voice for many
people or have a responsibility, you must look before you leap and take
your responsibility as well as you can. What I am also unexpected is
the extraordinary ending. I love this feeling very much when I watch a
film or other media texts with a creative plot.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Costner was actually in another decent movie. His last movie I
saw, Mr. Brooks, was pretty good also. I would call this movie a
political satire, that tries to be a little funny at times. However,
the idea that one guy determines the presidential election is absurd,
but if you can get past that, then the plot is OK. It was funny how the
movie had the political parties doing adds for things they oppose.
Example, the democrats supporting pro life because Bud says he's pro
life.

The plot is struggling, every day man, Bud Johnson, just got laid off.
He has a very smart daughter and she cares about the presidential
election. Bud promises to vote since Molly thinks it's important. But,
when he doesn't show, Molly votes in his place but the power goes out
and the vote didn't count. The election comes down to New Mexico and
for some reason, not told in the movie, Bud's vote will decide the
electoral votes. I mean, how could the votes be even for each side and
even if they were very close, how many months would it take for all the
recounts that would take place. But any way, it's up to Bud, whom
doesn't care about politics. He becomes an instant celebrity and is
courted by both candidates. By the end of the film, Bud grows an
appreciation for the political scene and realizes that it is important
to care about social issues.

FINAL VERDICT: Funnier than I thought and provides a message. Plus, the
movie doesn't try to say that one party is better than the other.
