
Excellent, excellent film. How "Furious 7" received such great reviews
and this film did not is beyond me. Definitely pay to watch it. Do a
great film justice and don't let it die with Furious pissing on its
grave.

44 Child makes you actually feel as if you were transported back to
soviet Russia and gives you the feeling of helpless in an unjust
government. It was banned from Russia for a reason. Tom Hardy gives an
excellent performance and you find yourself feeling sympathy yet
cheering for the success of this man who appears emotionless towards
acts of monstrous brutalities and a moral compass.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent opportunity to lose yourself in a brilliantly multifaceted,
deftly crafted story about love, war, politics, serial-killers,
violence, loyalty, betrayal, tenderness, and back again. And again. New
every time. Fresh, like running water, the story keeps you guessing
throughout, and yet at the same time it feels oddly familiar, a bit
like seeing your own reflection in the mirror for the very first time.
Acting? Seamless. The entire cast, not just the ever so captivating
leads. Not one false note amongst the lot. I vote Child 44 should
receive the much coveted Collective Oscar Award 2016. Direction? What
direction? Surely, the story just went and told its spellbinding self.
By itself. Daniel who? And as for the cinematography, the look and feel
of this film was authentic and distinctive enough for me to actually
look up the DP's name: Oliver Wood. Who's probably just another genius
on board of Child 44. Could go on, but think this more than covers the
IMDb's suspiciously lofty demand for a mini-essay. Hope you enjoy
watching Child 44 as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd say amusement-wise this movie is worth 7.5 out of 10. The story
holds his own and apart from the accents that might perhaps now and
then throw of some authentic feel the movie is certainly enjoyable.

Since the book in itself is superb, and by no means historically 100%
accurate as the writer Tom Rob Smith also wrote in the last pages of
the book, so no need for anyone to get their panties in a twist.

Of course the same goes for me, so I will try to be as little
judgmental as possible. 

That Stalin is responsible for the deaths of millions of Russians, is
still today for many Russians a form of western propaganda.

Having had a Russian girlfriend a couple of years ago at her hometown
somewhere in Russia (It's precise town is irrelevant) me, a few friends
of mine and her sister were having a drink and a laugh in her
apartment.

At some point we all had to name a historic person who was important to
our country and someone we saw as role model, hero or whatever.

When my girlfriend's (19 year old) sister named Stalin I first assumed
she began to develop a sense of sarcasm and I laughed at what I
expected to be a joke. This infuriated her and so the game was suddenly
over. Any arguments made in my defense by me and my friends mentioning
some of Stalin's gruesome crimes committed upon his own people were
received as US propaganda/Western lies.

What some people also here fail to realize is that this is no Hollywood
propaganda. The sequel of the book is called Kolyma, are those gulag
camps western propaganda also? For the purpose of exaggeration: I
wonder if Nazi Germany had not been defeated during world war 2, would
we see many people here at IMDb (in a post-NAZI Germany) 70+ years
later commenting on movies like Schindler's List or The Grey Zone, only
to paint them with the same brush of Western propaganda?

For some: please don't watch this movie if you have font memories of
the Soviet Era.

For everyone else: It's a nice flick with a great cast, go watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
Good film, great acting from the two leads, what more can you ask for.
It's not a great book to film adaptation but if you forget the book
it's worth a watch. I've seen a lot of criticism on the political and
historical accuracy, it's a film not a documentary you wouldn't say
gladiator isn't good because it's not accurate it's not meant to be
it's purely fiction with the exception of the fact it's based on a
serial killer from the same country. Summing up it's a good watch for
those who like thrillers and tom hardy. The film itself is probably a
7/10 but tom hardy and noomi rapice were so convincing as the leads
that I upped it to a 10. I was disappointed we didn't see much of Gary
oldman as he is also one of my favourite actors but the small part he
played was played very well. Everyone played there part to make an
exciting story with a rather weird ending but oh well it was worth the
watch anyway. :)
<|_=00=_|>
We went to see Child 44 opening weekend. We were sent to a theatre in
the back of the cinema. There were four people in the entire theatre.
What a shame ~ and shame on whomever was in charge of promoting this
movie. They truly fell on their face/faces. Child 44 was beautifully
filmed ~ the scenery was breath taking ~ Sets were exceptionally well
done...Tom Hardy was at his best as always...Another favorite of mine
Joel Kinneman (sp?)was exceptional...as was Gary Oldman, though his
screen presence was limited. All of the actors and actresses did a
splendid job. I have little understanding as to why the promotion of
this movie was so neglected. I seldom read reviews, but I read a couple
and wonder if the reviewers actually watched this movie. Everyone did a
splendid job ~ I highly recommend Child 44
<|_=00=_|>
Child 44 isn't the movie you watch for light entertainment. It is
gritty and tough, and I found myself feeling a sense of absolute
disgust for anyone and anything connected with the old school communist
state in the USSR. It really makes you look at just how bad that system
was and how monstrous the people were who enforced it on the general
populace. Nonetheless, the story is compelling, although sometimes the
thread jumps around a bit. Tom Hardy's performance was his best ever. I
think he warrants an Academy for it. Noomi Rapace was excellent - very
authentic in her role. Child 44 is a dark thriller - and without giving
anything away, the build up and hatred toward the serial killer really
sticks you to this movie - you simply want the killer to get the most
gruesome death conceivable for what he does. Apart from the Hollywood
aspect, this film depicts reality. This is how life existed under
Communism and I think that message is just as compelling and important
as the rest of the story - because it really depicted the terror and
the suppression that millions of people lived under in the name of some
douche bag's idea of "ideology". May Stalin forever lay dead and
remembered for only one thing - he was a murdering asshole. Watch the
film folks - I notice that the ratings were low, and I think that is an
unfair assessment about the quality of this production.
<|_=00=_|>
O boy!!! Wow what a movie... if you're movie lover you better watch
this movie.. Wonderful acting as you'll feel they are real characters.. 

i know the title sounds little weird but you wont regret after watching
the movie.. and ya its not a typical war movie or a drama thriller.. it
has almost everything and you'll feel love struggle tragic and a
message.. believe me its not a 6 rating movie its more of a 8+ or 9
rating movie..

Tom Hardy has done justice so as Noomi Rapace.. Gary Oldman and Jason
Clarke played minor roles..

It's more like a movie u would love to see when you want something
special to see..

compare the variance of tom hardy's acting and his skills of expression
with his first scene when he was describing about his love of life how
he met his wife with the last scene when he was trying to tell those
children that he cant bring their parents back from dead..

boy that was something special by tom hardy.. never thought he could
have done something like this esp after seen him as bane..

conclusion: MUST WATCH
<|_=00=_|>
This is a stellar movie with a stellar cast. I've thoroughly enjoyed
the movie. It's a 2 hour and 17 minutes movie but I've totally
forgotten about the time, caught up in the suspense. It's not the
typical historical drama. This film is really precious in my opinion.
I've always had this negative impression on the Russians or the Soviet
Union, formed from the Cold War period. But this film is wonderful in
showing that these Russians, they're just human like us. They would
love to protect their loved ones. Amid their fierce madness, there is
love and kindness too. Amid this crazy times, every single person's
life is in danger. Everyone is trying, in their own way, to survive.
Story wise, I really love how it all flows and ties in together. No
random scenes, everything has it purpose and connection. It's a really
beautiful story. And honestly, I didn't know much about Tom Hardy
before but boy was he awesome as the lead! I won't forget him and this
film at all, it'll be in one of my best seen films list. Oh and
seriously, the cast is British, Swedish, none Russian by the way, but
look at how convincing and real their Russian accent is! I was
throughly impressed. 

In my knowledge, there are not many Hollywood films that would show the
Russians in a positive manner, but this film does and I really love
that fact. It changed my opinion on them. Everyone, just watch the film
now and be impressed, I don't wanna give any spoilers ;)
<|_=00=_|>
After a very long time got break from stereotype movies and got chance
to watch this fantastic suspense movie.

Perfect plot, a good story, sudden twists, superb direction and
outstanding performance by all characters. ==> an ENGAGING SUSPENSE and
THRILLER movie!

As usual ....Tom Hardy you rock buddy!!! -----

Want a break from sci-fi, time travel, alien creature movies? 

Go and watch this!!!

Though (by the time of writing of this comment) it has got only 6.4
ratings.. thats very misleading. Far better than the recent
'Fast&Furious 7' and 'Avengers'!
<|_=00=_|>
Banned in Russia? Yesterday, with just my sister and I in the audience
in Rhode Island, I thought Child 44 had been banned in the US as well!
What a shame..this is an engrossing movie that holds very true to Tom
Rob Smith's novel (although the compelling storyline of Leo's own
childhood was truncated to near oblivion, and the key subplot of
Raisa's loyalties undeveloped). I went of course, because anything with
both Tom Hardy and Gary Oldman (and that makes four films now) is well
worth buying a ticket to, and the rest of the cast was sterling as well
(Paddy Considine a bit wasted but you'll never see a better club foot
shuffle). I can't heap enough praise on Tom. Did he once say he nailed
his roles by first starting with the walk? Well, here he has a Forest
Bondurant shamble with more plod that ideally captured a stolid man
with no faith in where his next step would lead him. You can't
encapsulate 75 years of soul sapping repression and brutality with one
honest portrayal, but Tom so ably reflected the plight of the honest
man under Stalinism that you are left with great admiration for the
resilience of the Russian character, not just horror at the degree of
institutionalized hypocrisy. This film should not be banned in Russia 
it should be shown everywhere as a testimony to the nobility of human
spirit that could survive Stalinism, whatever the psychological
aftermath.

I saw at Rotten Tomatoes the caption "a thriller without thrills" and
feel that is so unfair. It seems American critics, like the wider
audience, can't bear a slower developing plot anymore. If there were
"no murders" in the Soviet Union, there is equally no patience in the
USAwe want ten murders a minute. Perhaps the trailers should have
featured the fight scenes, because they were savage and visceral. All I
can say is don't stay away because of what the reviews claim  this is
a beautifully photographed film true to the novel, with amazing
performances that will hit home the brutality of the era and the
courage, cunning, and luck it took one individual to "beat" the system.

As for Tom Hardy  imo he is hands down the best actor of his
generation. Hands down. His last few roles in films that were largely
ignored indies, (the tour de force Locke with the Welsh accent, the
small town wise guy noir, with the humble Jersey accent, and now Child
44, with his exaggerated Russian) were all masterful performances and
he is building, building, building on a filmography that I hope someday
soon is realized with the iconic roles he deserves.
