
I was a combat soldier in the Vietnam conflict. The first thing that
comes to my mind watching this film was the equipment used by modern
soldiers. In Vietnam we had the clothes on our back, just underwear and
shirt, pants, boots, and our weapon. Some soldiers wore "flack vests"
but where I served with a small unit in the jungles of the south, I
never saw that. It was just your weapon and the clothes on your back.
As to the story, it raises from the very beginning all sorts of moral
questions. The film opens with actual footage of the over the top
training and stress imposed on elite fighting units such as the Navy
Seals. We see signs right from the beginning of the film that such
severe and brutal training regimens set up a trauma and stress
situation inside the emotions and lives of soldiers. There is a
critical point in the film where the choice to kill "innocent" people
or not to kill them changes everything that happens later. A lot of
people will argue about what the choice should have been, and how it
might have changed the soldiers chances of survival. That moment is a
key to understanding what comes after in the film.

Field Command Incompetence. Another issue defined, if not focused upon
directly, is how often the field command, Colonels and up, what are
called "field" officers, seem to be incompetent, arrogant and often
ineffective. Recent published studies of the history of military
service of American Generals, for example, show us that the field
commanders of armies on the ground is often a tragic disaster.

Emotions. Like many who watched this film, I found the long combat
sequence very riveting and yet repulsive, in that they are hard to
watch. There are several sequences that caused me to have a strong
emotional reaction and I had a lot of tears on my face by the time it
was over. There is a point in the film where we see a photo of the
soldier who survived (Whalberg's character) with the Afghanistan man
who gave him "hospitality" and saved his life at a great cost to his
village. It is very well acted by an very talented Middle eastern
actor. It is very easy in this film to become angry about the bad
people that are represented by the Taliban fighters. It is easy,
honestly, to just become very angry about all Muslims everywhere in a
film like this. Suddenly, right in the middle of this intensity of
revulsion towards "terrorists" there is an incredible emergence of
human dignity, beauty, that lifts the film upwards, that changes the
whole narrative of the film from soldiers captured inside a desperate
fight to stay alive, toward the greatest attributes of human society;
that of respect and refuge, of personal honor and dignity even in the
face of the most terrible events.

The film was executive produced by Whalberg, who also stars as the
"Lone Survivor", and you can see in his performance and from the
credits that roll at the end of the film, that he was very invested in
this story. While it is a sort of "classic" Hollywood soldier story,
the film has many surprises. It is incredibly effective at showing us,
using dramatic events, the stress and trauma a modern soldier fighting
the "war on terror" endures over a short period of time in their lives,
one that leads to suicides and many other problems for our returning
veterans; not to mention the villages and lives changed forever in
Afghanistan and the other locations where this kind of warfare
continues to this day. I think this film does a much better job at
showing this dangerous stress than most other films; but this also
makes the film hard to watch. This is a very mature film, very violent.
The violence is showed inside of an honest context, but viewers should
be prepared for a highly emotional and violent film experience.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story - that is the most haunting part of this film.
From the title and story itself, audiences already know what the
inevitable ending will be, but through the determination of the four
brothers, you can't help but hope for a change in their fates. 

At its core, Lone Survivor is an American war film. The team members
are heroes, the Taliban are enemies, and the heroes are able to fight
on like in video games or movies. For the opening 40 minutes, it is a
somewhat cheesy show of soldiers bravado and training, but it works.
Incorporating real footage of the Navy Seals mixed with the actors lets
viewers feel for the real life persons and their portrayed characters
in the film. Soon after though, they are dropped into enemy territory
on an operation to take out a Taliban leader. The mission goes awry
when they encounter a small group of locals there, and they are faced
with the decision of killing them and letting go. From here, the
intensity begins to climb. What is the right thing to do? What would
you do? Faced with that moral situation, they decide to cut them loose
- soon after, Taliban forces are hot on their tail. 

The next 40 minutes or so are an action-packed, non-stop brutal war
scene. Tension builds as a scope lines up with an enemy head. The shot
is fired, blood flies, and the chase begins. With an abundance of slow-
mo shots, clear close-ups of kills and wounds, the excellent direction
and cinematography provide a painful journey that makes you cringe or
tear up the same as the four soldiers. And all of these men in the film
play their roles greatly. Just listing them off - Walhberg tough as
usual, Hirsch strong and vulnerable, Kitsch pulling off the difficult
decisions as leader, and Foster frighteningly embodying cold but
caring.

These forty minutes of intensity must be attributed to the whole team
and crew though. Beyond the camera work and editing, much of the scenes
work well because of the locations, the costuming, the painful makeup
and design for all the wounds, the typical and tacky war-epic music.
The writing and delivery of lines keep the pacing quick and engaging. 

Regardless of the how the majority of the movie is taken, the
conclusion of the film is a nice touch and shows - even with the bloody
action and cheesiness - what the film's really about: giving the story
of these men who served the country. Lone Survivor, while it can be
perceived as more American propaganda, still gives a brutal yet
touching look at this journey of four brothers through war. Yes, there
were tears. RATING: [8/10]
<|_=00=_|>
If there is one thing that this film will accomplish is to make you
feel something. I assure you you will not get bored watching it. Now,
what you will feel will no doubt be up to you.

For myself, I felt mostly rage against a botched mission in an
ineffective war. Raytheon should be annoyed that a movie about a
mission failed primarily because of communication issues showed their
red flashy brand on the comms equipment.

I wanted the characters to succeed, to survive, but I could not ignore
the fact that they were soldiers being there only to kill an enemy
commander. Having all Americans die in slow motion while scores of
Taliban died instantly and kind of stupidly didn't help with the
empathy. Also showing pictures of dead soldiers with their families
with a pathetic American remake of Bowie's Heroes singing in the
background at the end of the movie just fueled more rage. People in the
field try to carry out their mission and survive, while their deaths
become political and mediatic material. I didn't enjoy that.

On the other hand, the fights were realistic, the subject based on real
events and, outside the pathetism described above, I did not detect a
bias towards one side or the other. You will witness two hours of low
tech war in all of its horror and stupidity. The actors also play well,
although I like Mark Wahlberg in almost everything he does.

The story, while showing the preparation, courage and resilience of
four soldiers in enemy territory, also showed other things, like the
logistical blunders that lead to stupid deaths, over-reliance on
technology that doesn't really work as you expect and how choices have
consequences on the ground that are beyond the ability of normal courts
to understand, whether looking from the legal or moral angle.

I liked a lot about the movie how it made you think long after it was
over. What would have happened if they just killed the herders? What
would have happened if they tied them up, went a bit down, risked a
sniper shot at the enemy commander, then just ran? What would have
happened if the Pashtuni would have ignored the wounded American or
would have killed the Taliban scout force when they came to them? How
would the mission have gone if the four guys would have known from the
get go that they would be completely alone, with no support or hope for
extraction?

Overall, a very emotional movie, two hours long, that shows more a
general type of heroism than one with a specific purpose. Nicely
directed and acted. A bit over dramatic, but then that's to be
expected. Worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't wish to offend anyone with this, but whenever you have a
film like "Lone Survivor" that resonates so strongly with the movie
going public, it's easy to be labeled a certain way if you don't follow
the film's attitude. I respect director Peter Berg's intentions; he
wanted to make a film about this group of soldiers performing their
duty, what they are trained to do and what so few are capable of, and
the consequences of that job. However, I feel like real life soldiers
are more humble than this film is subtle.

The film's opening credits feature archive footage of actual Navy SEAL
training rituals, which enables the first portion of the film to feel
like an extended commercial for the branch, only with movie stars. I
wasn't surprised afterward to discover that Berg and his team were
given unprecedented access to military resources while making the
movie. You have clich√©d narration by Mark Wahlberg in the beginning
along with some pretty cheesy opening segments that establish our
characters. Despite the star power, Ben Foster is the only one that
comes off with a lived-in presence, mainly due to his acting ability
with not much help from the narrowly minded patriotic script. Once the
four man team lands for their mission in the Afghan mountains, the film
gets slightly better.

"Lone Survivor" doesn't attempt to answer any big questions, like, what
were the soldiers doing there in the first place, or why is the longest
war in American history a failure? However, you can't fault the film
for this; that is not its aim. Instead, Berg and company boldly attempt
to show what it is like to be a Navy SEAL in the field. He creates a
visceral portrait that at times really puts you in their shoes and can
be hard to watch. There are two separate sequences of the soldiers
literally falling off a cliff that made me wince multiple times. But
these battle scenes are undermined by too much shaky hand-held camera
shots with quick cuts and zooms that can make it hard to understand
what's going on.

My biggest problem with the film is the post-rock band Explosions in
the Sky doing the musical score. Their instrumental, contemplative and
profound music is at odds with the gritty approach the filmmakers take,
giving the action a sentimental and over-the-top quality. You only need
a few slow motion sequences with their music to understand why people
are so taken by the film. Berg used the band to score his 2004 film
"Friday Night Lights", which with their score, made high school
football look like a matter of life and death. Here, it can almost be
played for laughs.

At the end of the day, "Lone Survivor" comes off more like "Act of
Valor" in an extended celebration of the branch it depicts, rather than
the cold, clinical and procedural approach of a film like "Zero Dark
Thirty". The final act of the story is very different from the real
life event. My theater erupted in applause when the Taliban villain who
loves to behead people gets killed. In real life, there was no such
threat on our main character's life once he was taken in by the
villagers. With exaggerations like these, and lines like, "You can die
for your country, I'm gonna live for mine," the film really doesn't do
a good job at being anything other than a feel good and proud patriotic
product. And don't get me started on the closing credits, with Peter
Gabriel's slow and over-the-top rendition of David Bowie's song
"Heroes". Not that there's anything wrong with such a film, but let's
not pretend that this is the greatest war film ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
After viewing Lone Survivor, I was disappointed on many levels. I can
handle a bad movie, we pay $10.75 and hope for the best. Lone Survivor,
however, is propaganda, and I was insulted by the movie's lack of
integrity and general stupidity:

1) Bad guys brandishing weapons traditionally struggle with accuracy in
movies. Fine. But these four guys face an onslaught of hundreds of
soldiers (many with automatic weapons), fall off multiple steep cliffs,
survive direct hits with boulders and trees, yet spring to their feet
for another round with the bad guys. Even when struck by bullets, they
tough it out and continue to fight on. Look, I have nothing against our
Navy Seals and root for them while in battle, but even they must abide
by the laws of physics.

2) The underlying message was that our guys are smart and brave, their
guys are wicked and stupid. If this were true, the war would have been
over ages ago. Incidentally, the makers of the movie were granted full
access by the U.S. military.

3) Speaking of which. . .according to the LA Weekly, the producers of
Lone Survivor are convicted cocaine dealers and have ties to Russian
oil and an alleged contract murder. And while that isn't necessarily an
indictment of the movie (for example, I enjoy Polanski movies but
realize he's a convicted sex offender) it does give me pause for the
movie's motives.

4) The symbolism of the cute little village boy was kind of like, "Oh
look, they're not ALL bad. A cute little kid, just like one of ours!"

5) I'm dismayed and frightened to learn how well this movie is faring
at the box office. Putting aside its political overtones, this movie is
plain lousy: dreadful character development, false New Mexico
landscape, overlong and poorly executed battle scenes, and midway
through the movie, poof, it gives up on the narrative back at the base.

6) I suspect this movie is for people with yellow "I Support the
Troops" bumper stickers. Let's watch our brave boys fight and kick ass,
from a safe distance of course. Or hackneyed sports announcers who love
to talk about "fighting them over there so we don't have to fight them
over here." Calling yourself a patriot, while voting for politicians
who would deny health care to a soldier suffering PTSD, a lost limb or
worse. If you think that's exaggeration, look it up.

7) One star, but only because zero is not allowed. I am heartened so
many others also rated the movie poorly. After all, Lone Survivor isn't
a Disney fantasy, and we simply would like better screenplays and
realism in our movies. I recently viewed Twelve O'Clock High and was
extremely impressed by its portrayal of the brave American men who flew
daylight bombing missions against Nazi Germany in World War 2. Here we
are 65 years later. . .
<|_=00=_|>
Lone Survivor, the movie, is based on a (supposedly) true story. The
source of that story is the book with the same title by Marcus
Luttrell, who was indeed the sole survivor of a four-man SEAL team in
the mountains of Afghanistan. Endorsing this movie requires ignoring
basic military protocols, suspending the laws of physics, and
disregarding the capabilities of the human body. The Devil, as always,
is in the details.

Love of country and reverence for its armed forces runs deep in the
United States. This is as it should be, and is unsurprising. We want to
believe in the honor, strength and heroism of our men in battle. It is,
therefore, relatively easy for a film maker to successfully appeal to
our emotions. For example, in the case of this movie, the Director
Peter Berg makes it very painful for the viewer to watch as our men are
cut down and fighting till the end; the viewer is also inspired. The
emotions squeezed from the audience makes almost irrelevant the actor's
craft. Instead, we are preoccupied with the images of our bloodied
countrymen fighting for their lives.

This movie further muddies the water about the catastrophe that the
SEALs brought down on themselves. Now we have to contend with the
movie, the book, and military reality. Most of us will have a grossly
distorted view of that reality by way of Schwartzenegger-like movies,
or this one, Lone Survivor.

In some ways, this movie improves on realism when compared to Mr.
Luttrell's book of fantasies. The Director seems to have found Mr.
Luttrell's imaginings too hard to accept. For example:

1. MOVIE: When the Afghan goatherds are taken prisoner, the commanding
officer (Lt. Murphy) decisively orders that the prisoners not be killed
in cold blood, and sets them free.

Mr. Luttrell says in his book that there was a vote taken on whether to
kill the prisoners, and the author plays a starring role--as he does
throughout his book--in the final vote to release them.

2. MOVIE: The Lt. Murphy character recognizes that their mission has
been compromised and so orders his team to move to higher ground and
seek extraction ASAP.

Mr. Luttrell says in his book that his team merely moved a few hundred
meters, and continued the mission.

3. MOVIE: Jumping over cliffs was kept to a minimum--two, I think.

Mr. Luttrell describes, in his book, jumping over cliffs and down
slopes 6, 7, 8, 9 times or more, with nary a broken bone, and an
unsecured weapon close at hand.

Unfortunately, the Director chose to accept Mr. Luttrell's wild (and
unsupported) claim of 200 enemy soldiers poised to engage the SEALs. In
the movie, the SEAL team actually see 200 armed enemy in the village.
Mr. Luttrell, in his book, sees 80-100 enemy directly above his
position--and notes each enemy soldier's armament; he later just
assumes the estimate of 200 in all. Mr. Luttrell has remarkable
observational abilities. 

The number of enemy is vastly reduced in the SEALs' own commendations.
Furthermore, other very respected sources give the number of enemy as
8- 10. The SEALs placed themselves in a textbook, tactically worst-case
position. A single enemy rifleman could have been fatal to one or more
members of that SEAL team.

The Afghans in this movie are shown as ambulatory targets, without a
hint of soldierly virtue. They know nothing of cover, or how to aim a
weapon. Yet, they discovered the precise location of the SEALs,
maneuvered on them, and caught them flat-footed.

In both the sanitized version (the movie), and in Mr. Luttrell's book,
the SEALs' incompetence and disregard for basic military principles is
manifest. War is unforgiving, and the SEALs paid the logical price. We
should not forget, too, that their failures cost the lives of 16 other
American servicemen. Had Lt. Murphy survived, rather than Mr. Luttrell,
he should have been court-martialed.
<|_=00=_|>
I have already seen Lone Survivor and it was not to my liking
unfortunately. I feel the film is completely absurd with 4 Americans
shooting and killing about 100 Taliban who continue to attack in waves
and are slaughtered while the Americans spend about half the film
rolling down a mountain and slamming into rocks and trees...the film is
based on a false premise of killing 3 goat herders or releasing
them...the actual answer is you hold on to them until the exact moment
you get safely into the rescue copter and then you let them go. If you
have to march miles and miles you take the goat herders with you. If
you can't march them any further you tie them to a tree. In addition,
the 4 Americans hunker down on a mountain top and don't appear to have
any clay-more mines with tripwires. These are normally set up around
the perimeter of an area where Americans are hunkered down. The
Americans also went into a combat mission with crappy phones...since
their cellphones suck it makes the rest of their fancy equipment and
diagram drawing of targets seem silly and pointless. The dialog in this
film is poorly written but the acting in and of itself is decent with
the best work done by Ben Foster. Mark Wahlberg plays it straight and
does not try and over-act and gives a good performance overall. In this
movie, the Taliban are brainless and have no problem with losing dozens
of seasoned fighters in order to try and kill 3-4 Americans. This is a
film where every single time the Americans fire a bullet there is a
Taliban going down in a large blood splatter and it seems like it takes
about 300 Taliban bullets to kill a single American. Yeah right. This
film is a propaganda recruitment film for the US military which in and
of itself is not such a bad thing. To be clear the US military is
filled with heroes fighting for America's freedom everyday....but this
film is more like a Sgt. Rock comic book....you have been warned...now
go see the film and write your own review!
<|_=00=_|>
Lone Survivor depicts the failed Operation Red Wings mission in 2005 in
which 18 members of the US Armed Forces were killed in action. The film
delivers a heavy handed patriotic look inside what happened during
those fateful hours. Right off the bat, the film starts with honoring
the men and women who serve the United States in the military via a
very powerful, if not, melodramatic montage. We then are introduced to
Navy SEALs, Marcus, Mike, Axe, and Danny, all played brilliantly by
Mark Wahlberg, Taylor Kitsch, Emile Hirsch, and Ben Foster. The actors
in this film exude the necessary chemistry for the audience to really
feel these characters as not just characters in the film, but in real
life as well. From Wahlberg to Foster, all four leads play their roles
very carefully and it pays off especially when we see each of them in
peril. With such a connection made in the first slow building hour, we
are then dropped into a forty five minute, pulse pounding shootout
between a huge Taliban force and four trained Navy SEALs. As the title
suggest, the shootout does not end pretty and never even comes close to
sugar coating the brutal nature of war. The entire shootout sequence is
filled with hard edged moments of brutality, gore and truly gut
wrenching scenes. It is by far one of the most heart racing moments in
recent cinema and considering the end results, it is very heart
wrenching that by the end of it, you feel as if the wind has been
knocked out of you. By the end of the film, Lone Survivor makes you
really appreciate the freedom you have, a feat that has not yet been
achieved in film up until now. This film is as good as Black Hawk Down
and Saving Private Ryan, it is absolutely worth seeing on the big
screen and I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was traumatized by this film. Never in all my years of sitting
through war films have I been so offended. I've played Call of Duty
games with more authenticity and conscience than this travesty. I
expect this level of soulless drivel from Bana and Wallyberg but Foster
is going to be yogic flying for the rest of this life and a few
reincarnations to make up for this one. Kitsch, well, Battleship looks
pretty good in retrospect.

S P O I L E R S (as if there was anything here to spoil)

The story goes something like this. 4 no neck meat-heads try to out
macho each other in a vain attempt to keep their homosexuality buried
deep in each others closets for half an hr before they are dropped into
Afghanistan where they kill a hundred or so Taliban whilst running
away, falling down cliffs (on purpose), being shot and blown up until 1
of the 4 is left barely alive and is extracted after being helped by
some locals who receive no thanks and will be targeted for doing so
(except for Wallyberg, he squeals a few thanks in his prepubescent
shallow breath tone before being carted off). These guys make The
Terminator look frail. 

Actually, that synopsis makes it sound way better than it is. I'm sure
there are a bunch of intellectually impaired patriots out there (some
on here already) for whom this film will bring a tear to the eye,
prompt a swift foot stomp and heel click before an obligatory salute to
the stars and stripes. If you breathe through your mouth a lot and
think you might be one of them, feel free to imagine an extra 9 stars
on my review. For everyone else, this is only worth watching if you're
feeling masochistic and want to see how bad it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Four soldiers are taking 30 (thirty) 7.42 caliber AK47 bullets to
different body parts, a bullet that tears a limb in half. They keep
moving and keep killing dozens of Muslims which blood is sprayed in
huge amounts of grape juice. Four Brave soldiers are taking 2 huge
falls hitting rocks and trees with heads and spines at high velocities.
They keep moving and keep killing dozens of Muslims. Four American
Soldiers getting hit by RPG HE rounds. They keep moving and keep
killing dozens of Muslims. Four Brave American Soldiers keep killing
dozens of Muslims with their godly M16A4s while they literally couldn't
be killed by shitty terrible Soviet/Russian weaponry (most reliable and
deadly weapons in the world actually).

Yes, this movie is actually that bad. It brings disrespect to the
actual soldiers. When a professional in this kind of stuff watches this
movie, all he/she can do is laugh at the level of fiction and facepalm
at the stupidity of actions.

Lone Survivor is rated 7.8 on IMDb and 90% on RottenTomatoes. This
shows the level of intellect and how brainwashed typical American
viewer is. The target audience the movie was aimed at.

Mark Wahlberg should take some notes from Matt Damon, when the first is
taking part in retarded propaganda for dumb target audience, the latter
is bringing water and toilets to Africa, traveling there himself.
