
Although the movie is predictable, like most romance comedies are,
nevertheless it was sweet. Sure a bit unrealistic in terms of the time
line of the whole plot takes place but this is why we have movies like
this, so you can escape into the fantasy of romance and humor. If you
are looking for realism then watch a 3 hour drama, but if you want to
escape for awhile and just enjoy a movie you don't have to think too
much about then it's worth your time. If you don't want to pay to go
see it in the theater, then wait for it to come out on DVD. I saw it
during a private screening as part of the ATL Film Festival, for close
to two hours I thought of nothing else and laughed and even cried a
bit. I would definitely see it again. It may not be the best romantic
comedy I have seen but the movie still holds lots of charm.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, if I could split the movie into two, I would say that the first
half is a superb Proposal and the second half is fairly traditional
Hollywood pablum. In the first half, the wonderful comedic timing and
chemistry between Bullock and Reynolds was terrific. The writing was
first-rate intellectual, snappy sparring, even throwing in some
literary references in the put-downs. Kudos to the Director, Anne
Fletcher, and the Screenwriter, Pete Chiarelli.

The completely different tone in the second half, I surmise, could only
be attributed to the studios/producers stepping in and stating that the
film must appeal to a wider audience. We, then, get lots of family
characters thrown in, with a great reduction of Bullock and Reynolds
mutual screen time. And when they do share time in the second half,
it's more about slapstick/physical humor (cue studios/producers needing
appeal to wider, a.k.a, younger audience). Maudlin music comes in on
the soundtrack, letting us know that this part of the movie is supposed
to tug on our heartstrings.

I don't buy the inevitable resolution either. I don't believe that it
is supported well or justified by what came before it.

The 1st 45 minutes is WELL worth seeing. I wish the filmmakers could
have pushed and maintained the pace and feel for the entire movie.
Reynolds and Bullock are so good, they could be this generation's Tracy
and Hepburn. I'd like to see them in another project that follows
through all the way.

BTW, this film was actually shot in Boston and (the Alaska scenes) in
Manchester by the Sea and Rockport on the North Shore with digital
effects adding snow capped mountains. You might even recognize Motif
No.1, a famous small building on a wharf in Rockport which has been the
subject of many famous painters' and photographers' work. It was also
fun seeing some of my local Boston area acting colleagues doing
background work in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Proposal isn't going to win any Oscars, nor will it become your
favourite movie of all time. However, it does exactly what it is
supposed to do; that is to entertain you. The Proposal is the story of
a tough editor Margaret Tate (Bullock) who forces her assistant Andrew
Tate (Ryan Reynolds) to marry her so she can stay in the U.S.
(Interestingly, in the movie Bullock plays a Canadian and Reynolds an
American while in real life, the reverse is true). What happens next
will not surprise viewers but they will get many laughs along the way.
Reynolds and Bullocks are very funny and also very believable. Betty
White (from the Golden Girls) almost steals the show as Andrew's 90
year old "Gammy". The beautiful Alaskan setting doesn't hurt things
either. Overall this is not a unique movie or even a unique role for
Bullock but it is a very funny (and fun) way to spend an afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
We went into this movie more or less out of despair; the cinema
offerings seemed uniformly lousy and we simply wanted to see a movie
that looked like fun. This one looked stupid: I'd seen Betty White
promoting the movie on Jimmy Fallon's show and the scene shown was
idiotic, though it did have a couple of amusing lines. Well, we were
all pleasantly surprised. The outcome of the plot might be predictable,
but the road getting there is surprisingly sharp and entertaining.
There are quite a few witty lines and exchanges, and the delivery and
timing of the two stars and, of course, of Betty White are just about
perfect. Both of the lead characters have surprises in their
backgrounds to reveal, and the settings are beautiful. There are one or
two scenes that are clunkers, but even the dopey episode with White's
Grandma Annie doing a ritualistic dance in the woods ends up having
some relevance to a later plot event. The movie is well thought-out and
well executed, and the actors create characters who engage us, even if
we don't know anyone quite like them in our own lives.
<|_=00=_|>
Producer/star Sandra Bullock turns out what looks like another box
office smash. Typical of most "chick-flicks," the trailer tells you
just about everything you're going to see. Unexpectedly, though, the
surprises come from behind the scenes. The film looks gorgeous (and not
just the two lead actors): the prettiness of the interior sets is
matched by the choice of locations. While much of the film is set
amidst the beauty of a seaside town in Alaska, even New York City is
made to look like something out of a story book. It hasn't looked this
good since the era of Doris Day. Typical of such a film, the costumes,
even on the extras in the background, are so well-coordinated with the
locations that the whole thing feels like a "realist fantasy." 

Likewise, the plot itself is reminiscent of the romantic comedies of
half a century ago - complete with their morality, albeit updated
enough in a post-feminist era for Ryan Reynolds' masculinity to
function credibly in "the Doris Day role." This he handles extremely
well, although Sandra Bullock deserves most of the praise. As a
producer, she knows her on- screen strengths and weaknesses, and, most
importantly, she knows her audience and, despite the hard-nosed
ice-queen she chooses to play here, everyone will continue to love her.
Frankly, I was surprised to see so many empty seats at the
sneak-preview last night in Boston, but I hope that doesn't get the
filmmakers down. The audience loved this film and it's going to get
positive word-of-mouth from whoever sees it - young or old. It's going
to be around for a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
My jaw is still aching, almost an hour and a half after the credits
rolled. I don't recall when I last laughed this consistently and
heartfelt at a new production. Yes, this is pretty formulaic stuff...
if you've seen one mismatched couple romantic comedy, you've seen them
all. This never claimed to be anything other than that. It definitely
delivers what one expects from the genre, without any of it being
phoned in or taken any less seriously. Not every film needs to
revolutionize the craft, and shape cinema for decades to come. If
everything was excellent, it would become the norm, and it would cease
to be special. And I find it incredible and immensely positive that a
movie with this kind of humor(observational, and largely derived from
typical situations that happen to everyone) can still be made, and be
nicely received. Humiliation and pain are not actually funny. They get
a schadenfreude reaction, "thank goodness that didn't happen to me",
and thus we move further apart, isolate ourselves all the more. This
does the opposite, letting us get closer to each other, share the
little things that we've forgotten are silly or "off" in our everyday
lives. It does go a tad too far on occasion, to get the audience going,
but those instances are few in number. The acting is great all-round,
and the two leads have chemistry, and play off each other well. There
are countless memorable sequences, jokes and gags in this. This
contains "moments" between Bullock and Reynolds, as well, and they
genuinely work. You feel for them. The characters are just about
invariably well-written, interesting and credible. In general, the
script is well-done. The music is pleasant and well-chosen. This ought
to entertain nearly everyone, of any age. There is a little strong
and/or risqu√© language, and a couple of usually mild sexual references,
and this tends to be inoffensive. I recommend this to all who think
they may enjoy it. Chances are that you're right. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
The moment when pushy boss Margaret Tate (Sandra Bullock) suddenly
forces her unsuspecting, docile, but ever-so-hunky young assistant
Andrew Paxton (Ryan Reynolds) to tell her superiors they're to be
married so she won't be deported back to her native Canada, there's a
certain awkward amusement. But it's more in the way Ryan Reynolds plays
it than the situation, as written -- our unease, and the actor's. If
there is such a thing as "reality," this ain't it. What's a Ken-doll
type like Ryan Reynolds doing in a job like this? The answer is,
waiting for this moment. Otherwise, if you had the sort of guy who
might really be doing this sort of job, you wouldn't have a romantic
comedy, and that's what the makers of the elaborately lame The Proposal
are reaching for.

It's not just that the assistant would probably be gay, or a young
woman, as are Meryl Streep's in The Devil Wears Prada. Well, yes, it
is, in a way. The author of the Prada book had worked for Anna Wintour.
This ill-conceived book editor is feared by everyone on the floor just
like the editor of Vogue. But although she seems ready to fire anyone
she doesn't like, she does nothing but read unsolicited manuscripts
while riding an exercise bike and coax well-known authors into doing
Oprah. Her assistant, who presumably takes care of everything else, is
an aspiring writer and editor, but he still looks like a guy who spends
most of his time at the gym.

The standard Forties material -- sparring guy-and-gal fall in love --
has to stand the test of 21st-century role-reversals, boss-lady,
servile man. But the real problem is the serious lack of chemistry
between Bullock and Reynolds. This is role for Katharine Hepburn, who
could be imperious, overbearing, elegant, but very feminine. If only
Ryan Reynolds were Cary Grant, but needless to say, he isn't. He's not
suave, merely fresh and pleasant. The best you can say for him is that
despite his bulky muscles he looks okay in a suit. The wardrobe
department are the unsung heroes of this film. But it's not that
Reynolds or Bullock does bad work, just that the writing sucks.

The movie doesn't manage to establish Margaret's dominance or Andrew's
competence before the plot gets its sendoff. Instead, off they go to
Alaska to meet his family on a weekend when the Paxtons plan to
celebrate the ninetieth birthday of Andrew's Grandma Annie (Betty
White). Clearly, Andrew realizes he now has the upper hand. Margaret
threatens to fire him if he doesn't cooperate, but she has more to
lose. And so he sets out to make her experience in Alaska hell.

But the new venue takes over and the comedy gets lost in the surprises
Andrew's family offers. The Paxtons turn out to be by far the richest
people in the remote town of Sitka (no, not Sitcom). This is the lazy
way to handle the situation, so long as the filmmakers have the budget
for it, which they do: poshness is so generic, so Hollywood. On hand
are Craig T. Nelson from The Family Stone and Mary Mary Steenburgen
from a couple more raucous but equally bad family comedies, 'Step
Brothers' and 'Four Christmases.' And veteran Betty White, whose energy
at 87 is admirable, but whose eccentric old lady role is annoying and
cloying.

Anne Fletcher lacks inventiveness and finesse in staging the standard
situations. When Andrew has to jump into bed with Margaret in the
morning when mom brings in breakfast (the Paxtons are rich, but they
still do all the work in their mansion, except at party time), the
sequence is drawn-out and unfunny. When the still-unfriendly couple
accidentally fall on top of each other while naked, it's more clunky
than cute: they're like big icky wet statues. It's better not even to
talk about the omnipresent Ramone, played by Oscar Nu√±ez of "The
Office," who apparently somebody thinks is funny enough to be a waiter,
a general store manager, an erotic dancer, and the minister for a
wedding ceremony. The erotic dancer part is excruciating. Only in
Sitka, not, hopefully, in any other movie. Did the filmmakers bring in
an actor from "The Office" to make up for how poorly they developed the
office scenes earlier in the movie? 

Oh yes, and there's other fun stuff like an eagle chasing a puppy and
then flying off with Margaret's cell phone instead; Betty White
chanting around a fire with a rug; Betty Steenbergen looking harried;
and Craig T. Nelson driving biodegradable golf balls into the bay. When
the two would-be lovebirds return to New York and tell the immigration
officer they're in love for real now and willing to undergo his
scrutiny, he says "Let's do it!" 

Let's not.
<|_=00=_|>
My best friend, God, I love her, we've been friends for 10 years, she's
been there for me through everything as I've been there for her, I
would crawl through broken glass to get her a birthday gift¬Ö wait, that
doesn't sound so healthy. But I do love the girl, however, what the
heck did I do to her to be punished this badly when she begged me to
see The Proposal? See, I don't get it, we have a "romantic comedy"
script, no one changes anything, just the actors, every clich√© in the
book and somehow people fall for it. There is a needle in a haystack
when it comes to a romantic comedy being actually funny or
entertaining, but with the positive reviews that the IMDb users had
been writing, I was actually thinking maybe this might be a good movie¬Ö
YOU IMDb USERS, how dare you?! Shame on you that you fell for it once
again, I'm going to point out how my puppy could have written this
script after I tell you the story, even though I'm sure you can figure
it out for yourself.

Margaret Tate is the executive editor-in-chief of a book publishing
company, Colden Books. All of her workers, including her assistant
Andrew Paxton hate her, and she fires a senior editor, Bob Spaulding.
After learning she is being deported to Canada, she forces Andrew to
marry her, as his future is tied to hers. When the government
investigates, Mr. Gilbertson informs them that they will undergo
rigorous testing to prove that the marriage is not fraudulent. Andrew
grudgingly accepts, under the condition that he is promoted to the
position of editor and his manuscript be published. The two are forced
to spend the weekend with his parents in Alaska in order to sell the
lie. Margaret is very unreceptive of Alaska, and is shocked to learn
that Andrew's family owns most of the business in Sitka. Andrew
announces that he and Margaret are getting married. But as most
romantic comedies, we know where this is all going as Margaret realizes
the true value of family and Andrew realizes that Margaret is human as
well, blah, blah, blah.

So tell me how in the heck is this original or funny? For God's sake we
even have the clich√©d run to the airport before the girl leaves. The
big kiss in front of a huge crowd that starts the slow clap. The crazy
family that break down the "emotionless" woman into making her think
that they're wonderful when really they all belong in a mental
institution. The only thing The Proposal was missing was the clich√©d
gay best friend or the bitter best girl friend! You have to understand,
I try, I mean I really really tried to be nice and enjoy the movie for
what it was, but how can I when I know exactly what they are going to
say or what would happen next? How is it that in every romantic comedy
the most opposite of people who brutally hated each other then all of a
sudden fall in love in less then 2 days?! Why?! How?! You IMDb users
who marked this movie as a 10, don't ever talk to me, I'm going to have
a hard enough time having to forgive my best friend for doing this to
me as she won't stop saying "Oh, my God! That was the sweetest movie
ever!".

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is yet another predictable romantic comedy. The only difference is
that Ryan Reynolds and Sandra Bullock make it tolerable, and even a
little entertaining. Ryan Reynolds stars as Andrew Paxton, a servant to
Margaret Tate (Sandra Bullock). They hate each other. But when Margaret
figures out she's being deported since she's not an American citizen
she turns to Andrew. They say they are getting married. Andrew's
Grandma Annie (Betty White, the best part of the film) is turning 90,
so they go to Alaska, where Annie and Andrew's parents live. We then
enter the clich√© parents. Grace (Mary Steenburgen), his wacky mother,
and Joe (Craig T. Nelson), his uptight dad. This is not very
entertaining. The laughs mostly come from Ryan Reynolds' calm
personality. He just has a way of making me entertained. There's also
Oscar Nunez, who plays Oscar on TV's The Office, playing Ramone. He
will remind you of an aspect of Local Hero. This is not a good movie,
but it might just be worth renting just for the mild entertainment. On
second thought, you can just skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Most charming Sandra Bullock movie since While You Were Sleeping,
though quite a bit more predictable. (Anyone who knows the general
premise can guess how the movie is going to play out.) But it was funny
and sweet, and if you need to choose something to take your
wife/girlfriend to, choose this one.

Sandy's attempting a Miranda Priestly-type character (Meryl Streep in
The Devil Wears Prada) which doesn't actually suit her acting style
very well, but when you get used to her she's fun to watch. And she has
great comic timing. So does Ryan Reynolds for that matter, who has a
way of just looking perplexed that can make you snicker.
