
I wanted to like this film, the only problem is it has very large shoes
to fill. The two films that come to mind, obviously, are "Tales from
the Crypt: Demon Knight" with Billy Zane (rated a 6.6/10 here) which
tackled the whole "end of the world/standoff in diner/lone hero
fighting alongside the little guys against a legion of bad guys" thing
10 times better and "The Prophecy" with Christopher Walken (also rated
a 6.6/10 here) which tackled the whole "good angel versus bad
angel/showdown on earth" thing 10 times better. Both came out in 1995
and while they didn't have the special effects that this one had, they
had a cohesive story, GREAT acting and believable characters.

The internet is going to crucify this film, so I'm just going to break
it down simply: The first hour or so is pretty good, and if it had
stopped at the 70 minute mark, it could come close to the 6.x rating
it's getting now. The last 30 minutes is a rushed, hatchet job that
will make you regret seeing this film. 

Also, SHAME on the editors of the film trailer for spoiling the two
best scenes of the film (the old lady "reveal" and the ice cream man
"reveal".) I hate when you do this. You stole all of the impact those
scenes had and lowered my rating by a point.

Don't pay to see this film, rent "The Prophecy" and "Tales from the
Crypt: Demon Knight" instead.
<|_=00=_|>
The overall premise of the film is a little silly yes, but it's
incredibly original and it had so much potential.

The film suffers from a handful of serious flaws that ruin just about
everything good that the film has going for it. The pacing is
horrendous. The action scenes are few, far between and horribly rushed
and the down time in between them slows to a crawl. This time is used
for each of the uninteresting, two-dimensional characters to
melodramatically shed out stories of their troubled pasts. We just
don't care about ANY of them due to minuscule character development and
a horrible script.

The whole film is terribly written with some questionable scenes that
seemed to have been written only for the convenience of the characters.
The plot is pretty simple but mostly unexplained and full of holes. SO
much is left in the dark and the main point of the film isn't even
explained so it's hard to care at all during the supposed dramatic
moments.

Too much talking and not enough action for it to be a wicked B-movie
and the overabundance of melodrama and terrible writing keep it from
being a serious, dramatic epic.

There are slivers of a good film and some great ideas that occasionally
appear and the few, brief action scenes are fairly entertaining, but
everything else is so terribly executed that it isn't worth any kind of
recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
Judging from the trailer this movie was supposed to be a whole lot of
action while the talking takes a backseat, unfortunately the 30 second
trailer contained all the action you are going to see over 100 minutes
of the full movie.

The acting was entirely melodramatic while the script was TV level.
Nothing was believable, far too often you found yourself watching these
characters talk to each other, explaining their own background while
you sit there realizing that you don't care at all. The character
development was done so obviously that it made everything feel cheap.

Avoid this movie at all cost's, you'll have more fun reading a Bible
than you would watching Legion.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie just fails on every level.

I have seen some reviews/posts that claim people are 'missing the
point' and that this is supposed to be a "B" movie in the vein of Evil
Dead. Well, I love those type of movies and Legion does not compare to
them, or appear that it attempted to be part of that genre in any way.

From an action movie standpoint, it basically lacks action. It has a
few scenes I would categorize as 'decent'. The previews completely
mislead viewers in this regard.

From a drama standpoint, the script is absolutely horrible. Even with
good actors reading it, some of the dramatic parts drag on
unbelievably. And there are just way too many of these parts for such a
horrible script.

The plot and characters are underdeveloped, the acting is horrible, and
the movie just drags on and on. I am hard pressed to find anything good
to say about it other than that there are a few decent action scenes.

I know it's not the most 'wordy' review but it's really tough to say
much else about this movie. It was the first time I have actually been
angry at spending money in a theatre. I have never wrote a review on
here, but the reviews for this movie are so completely misleading it
motivated me to.
<|_=00=_|>
Sadly, Legion is a movie that one WANTS to enjoy... Unfortunately,
there really is just nothing really "good" about this movie. The film
doesn't particularly appeal to ANY group of movie-goers. The plot and
character development wear very thin, so anyone watching the movie for
a good story will be disappointed. Low-attention-spanned action-buffs
will find dull, repetitive fights and action sequences. People looking
for good, well-portrayed actors will find shoddy performances from
almost every player in the movie.

Paul Bettany probably does the only DECENT performance in the film. I
say decent, and not good, because that's all it really is. There is a
SINGLE DECENT fight scene in the movie. Again, not good, only because
of lazy choreography and being too short.

There is a lot of thought put into this film, it's fairly obvious. The
problem is a lack of real determination from anyone in front of, or
behind the camera. The film is overall, fairly forgettable.
<|_=00=_|>
Legion (2010) Directed by: Scott Stewart Starring: Paul Bettany, Lucas
Black, Adrianne Palicki, Charles S. Dutton, Tyrese Gibson, Kevin
Durand, and Dennis Quaid

When God loses faith in Mankind, Archangel Michael (Bettany) loses his
faith in God. An out- of-the-way diner becomes an unlikely battleground
for the survival of humankind as Michael and a group of strangers
defend themselves against God's legion of angels. Michael must protect
a mother (Palicki) and her baby, for it is the key to ending the
Apocalypse. Let me start off by saying that Legion is not a good movie,
however, it is not terrible by any means. Unlike recent biblical
horrors (The Unborn comes to mind), Legion tries very hard not to
follow the lame clich√©s of recent horrors; I always commend a film for
trying to be good. Unfortunately, it takes itself a little to seriously
with God's legion of zombies that are supposed to be possessed by
angels. The film also was terribly written, ("What's your beef?"
"Simmer down!" "Hold on white boy") with weird scenes that needed some
serious editing. Besides the bad script and erratic editing, the acting
was terrible. The only exceptions were Paul Bettany (who seemed to have
flown into the wrong movie) and Lucas Black (Sling Blade, Friday Night
Lights). Everyone else was uninspired and made the bad screenplay look
much more terrible than it was. The action scenes are where this film
soared. The fight between the two Archangels was incredible, and the
visual effects were on par. Overall, Legion is a biblical Assault on
Precinct 13. It lacks a good script, editing, cinematography, and
acting. I commend it for trying to be less like recent horror films
that really shouldn't even call themselves 'films". I think deep down,
on the cutting room floor, there was something there, but we don't see
it. Legion is by no means horrible, but I can't recommend it.

Rating: 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
If Feast, and Splinter have shown us anything, is that sometimes the
claustrophobic feeling of a close quarters set can almost be an extra
character in the film. Legion went for this, but failed. After seeing
the trailers, I was hoping Legion would kickstart 2010's horror'ish
lineup into full gear. I couldn't have been more wrong.

Legion is the holy roller's rendition of "The Terminator" mixing
elements of classics from almost every genre of film. Sometimes, a film
can pay homage to cult classics, and give birth to an all new
sub-genre. Legion is more like an abortion than a birth.

Cheesy dialog during forced character background scenes fill up 3/4ths
of the film. The action scenes are few and far between, and what little
we are given, is very anti-climactic. From the trailer, we were all but
promised plenty of zombie-like scenes of innocent people being
possessed by angelic forces to facilitate the extermination of the
human race. If this is what you're expecting.. don't. 90% of the "cool"
scenes of possession are shown in the trailer, the rest are pretty much
forgettable.

Having not seen "Daybreakers" yet, so far my 2010 has begun with a dud.
Legion is insulting to the viewers intelligence. Save the cash, and
wait for this turd to show up late night on the syfy channel.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer had me thinking that this would be one heck of a slice and
dice fest in the same vein as Feast or even The Mist, with a group of
rag tag survivors being huddled together in a diner / supermarket, and
the fight for survival against invading monsters of all shapes, sizes
and surprises. The latter film also had a bible-thumper, and religion
forms the basis of the premise here, when you see how it all becomes a
modern day re-imagining of the tale of Mary, Joseph, and the prophetic
messiah baby.

That's just my angle at making sense of the flimsy plot which didn't
develop properly, despite ample time in the first half that had
characters talking, rationalizing and reflecting on just what their
predicament is, and how senseless it all seemed, at the expense of
action sequences that undeniably got better as the film wore on.
Amongst the action offered that I've not seen before involved the angel
Gabriel (last done androgynously by Tilda Swinton in Constantine),
which brings to mind just how angels would be clad for battle, with
armour, close combat weapon with frills, and those metallic wings used
both defensively and offensively in quite elegant ways as shield and
blade combined in one sweeping motion. Not to forget, flight too.

Unfortunaately there are a number of close references to other films,
most notably the Terminator movies and the Matrix combined for certain
scenes that looked way too familiar. The beginning already had
Terminator like arrival of the angel Michael (Paul Bettany) to our
world, earmarked for destruction by God because he was losing faith in
the bullshit of mankind. He's not following his book of Revelations
though, as he sends his angelic force to earth mimicking how Terminator
robots get sent back in time. Or the severe warping of the human face
to indicate possession by a higher, in this case, spiritual force.

Basically, the world is God's matrix, and the angels being his agents
sent to stop and destroy the birth of the prophetic Neo, who is but an
unborn child in Charlie (Adrianne Palicki), an unwed mom who's
waitressing at a diner out of nowhere aptly titled Paradise Falls, run
by the estranged father and son team of Bob (Dennis Quaid) and Jeep
Hanson (Lucas Black from Fast and Furious 3), who get thrown into the
thick of the action together with the rest of their diner crew and
customers, which can be easily read as fodder for the apocalypse, which
came in the form of a spider granny, ice cream man and the likes.

For the film to work, you have to buy into its reasoning that God has
decided to end the world through an unfair battle using his angels
against humans, and the absence of the Devil whom a friend thought
would actually either rejoice, or would have gathered new followers
with the exodus of human souls now being abandoned by the holy one. If
you don't subscribe to this premise, then everything will not hold
water, and it'll become just another mindless action flick that flits
from one sequence to another. 

And let me know if you don't agree that the baby is the messiah (if I
wanted to go one step further it could even be the second coming),
since every angel bowed their heads in reverence, and stopped dead in
their tracks. It wasn't explained why the baby held the key to the
salvation of mankind, so that's my speculation. After all, Michael the
angel did find it worthwhile to switch sides in order to find some
glimmer of hope amongst mankind to change his master's mind.

Legion had an interesting potential but ultimately got let down by its
half-baked plot development and references so close you'd think it was
The Matrix or The Terminator. It got played out too seriously for its
good, though with room given for a sequel if one ever gets made given
the way it ended (really like The Terminator again), and this time
maybe with room to deal with the demons now that angels are likely out
of the way.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the film last night. It started out like a typical "Survival
Horror" film. A group of different people. A mysterious stranger rolls
into town. All Hell (excuse me...HEAVEN) breaks loose. Then just as
soon as the film got going, someone stabbed a pitchfork in it and
turned it over. It totally changed gears.

Once the film first set-piece ended it turned into a slower version of
Night of the Living Dead. This is largely due to a plot point that set
this rule into action: God put a restraining order on all ZombAngels.
They were not allowed to get too close to the main protagonist. So
without giving anything away; you can now imagine the pacing of the
film up to the climax. Slow and uneventful.

The acting was a caliber above most Horror films. Quaid, Black, and
Bettany were all fine. However none were memorable. Even the two main
Godsends, Gabriel and Michael, managed to have conflict that was
forgotten seconds after the next scene started.

So I would say it's a "Catch on Cable" viewing. Unless you're a huge
Bettany fan. Then I would say avoid this like the plague.
<|_=00=_|>
Legion is about the apocalypse and one fallen angel who tries to save
the last hope for humanity. With such a high concept, it's weird how
it's actually taking place in a rather constrained space : a truck
diner lost in an American desert. My first impression was that the
special effects looked cheap (witness the first human transformation
and the way "it" talks while barely moving its mouth). It's an
impression that stayed with me throughout until perhaps the final
antagonist. My second impression was that the acting wasn't that bad. I
didn't recognize the actor playing the main angel character (Paul
Bettany) until the day after while reading the credits. He's not one we
usually see as an action hero in this kind of flick but he gave a
decent performance as the strong stoic type. I also remembered Lucas
Black (playing Jeep : what a lousy character's name) from the time he
was a talented child actor. He still is. We also have the ever reliable
Dennis Quaid in a supernatural thriller yet again. 

My third impression was that the little old lady (seen in previews)
reminded me of the crazy old gypsy woman from "Drag me to Hell". It's
no wonder she's shown in previews, it's one of the best moments.
However it spoils the surprise. My fourth impression was that following
the granny, the "possessed" people were rather slow, stupid and not
particularly menacing, very much like zombies even though they were
not. My fifth impression was that at least the filmmakers were trying
to achieve character moments instead of tiring us out with incessant
action. My sixth impression ,after the film, was that considering the
origin of the possessed humans and the objective desired, it was really
ridiculous and unbelievable to proceed that way especially considering
the supposedly superior intelligence at work. My last impression is
that although it's certainly watchable as a distraction, it's not
really effective or a particularly good film in the genre despite the
"angels", seldom seen in features these days. Don't watch "Legion"
expecting a big-budget epic fantasy, it's more like an intimate, closed
space, last stand b-movie thriller without that many thrills.

Rating: 5 out of 10 for mediocre

P.S. Don't watch it expecting a "legion" of "angels" either. You would
be disappointed.
