
As with the last user who commented, the reason for this score was
purely the dancing. Now, to be fair, the acting abilities of the two
main characters was average...even above average at times...though not
stellar. However, their dancing was freaking SICK. I've seen a lot, and
some of this freestyle was off the charts incredible. The only reason
that I went to see this movie, in fact.

Briana Evigan (Andie) is an amazingly talented dancer. Her acting was
actually not that bad, I was pleased. Robert Hoffman (Chase) was the
typical charming, blond-haired and privileged pretty-boy...with an
edge. His dancing was phenomenal, they were both exciting to watch.
Their chemistry together was enough to make it hard to tear my eyes
from the screen. If the trailers entertain you, and you're a fan of
dance see this movie. Though the plot is weak, and the dialogue
laughable, the dancing is enough to make spending your $8 on the ticket
more than worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually thought that the movie was pretty good. It's not as bad as
the reviews that it's getting, just don't go in expecting to get an
Oscar performance. The storyline was a little all over the place.
Typical teen dance movie. BUT the dancing is amazing couldn't keep my
eyes off the screen. Robert Hoffman did a decent job, he really lays
the charm in throughout the whole movie. The dance scenes make the
entire movie. Ethnically, it is such a diverse cast of people, there is
someone for everyone to identify with. The soundtrack is insanely good
also. By the end of it you will be quoting lines and wanting to dance
for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
Alright, it doesn't have what it takes to get the Oscar.... BUT I
personally liked the dancing scenes, actually I was amazed by them ...!
In my opinion the movie deserves the 8 points, after I read how hard
was the shoot of the last dance .. in the rain... and after I saw the
movie and the great dances I think this movie deserves a High
opinion... 

I would recommend it to people who want to get away for an hour and a
half.. I enjoyed every minute of it.... the actors had some weak
points, but all in all they did a good job to present the protagonists
in the movie and they did a GREAT job with the dancing scenes!
<|_=00=_|>
The story lacks substance, but I did not see the movie for story... I
saw it for the dancing and the dancing was great. I love all dance
movies though. This was definitely the movie with the best dancing, but
not necessarily the best storyline. Take the Lead was a better story,
but the dancing could not compare. The new characters were cool too.
They had pretty good chemistry. The movie kept me totally entertained
the whole time even though it was totally predictable. Like I said the
dancing was what I wanted to see and I was not at all disappointed. The
last 15 minutes of the movie made it definitely worth an hour and a
half of my time. If you like dancing you'll love it... if you don't
then you won't!
<|_=00=_|>
A movie like step up 2 or almost any dance movie for that matter
typically has poor writing/script and nothing beyond decent acting. the
whole point of these movies is to take your breath away with dance
moves and step up 2 does just that. trust me when i say this, the last
scene of the movie is one for our generation, one of the best dance
scenes in any movie, creative and different it will shock you. i
thought stomp the yard had good dance moves and it did but this movie
actually outdid that movie. i normally do not like dance movies, i did
not like you got served, one of the worst movies ever made possibly, i
did not like step up 1, etc. it starts slow to be honest and in the
beginning it's nothing that you or i haven't seen before but everything
comes together in the end and its great, the last scene and the dancing
is what makes the movie and worth the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
I certainly didn't have high expectations for this movie, but I figured
the dancing would be fun. My expectations were exceeded, WAY exceeded.
Sure it has a predictable plot and it's nothing more than a
right-side-of-the-tracks/wrong-side-of-the-tracks love story (Pretty in
Pink, West Side Story, Romeo & Juliet, etc.), but the dancing was
really incredible. I'm way older than the target audience and yet I
thoroughly enjoyed this movie.

If you're looking for groundbreaking plot, acting, or directing, you
won't find it here. But the acting/directing was just fine, and the
dancing was stellar. If you're concerned with the acting, I guess that
would be like going to an action movie and judging it based on the
acting rather than the action.
<|_=00=_|>
You guys over analyze...sit back and enjoy a great movie. I guess you
have to have a passion for dancing to enjoy it but if you don't then
just don't ruin it for anyone else. We don't sit here and make fun of
your little horsey movies or little car movies, everyone has their own
likes and dislikes and if you enjoy dancing you will enjoy the movie.
The actors/actresses are portrayed as very skilled dancers in this
movie and you eyes will be glued to the screen. Both Step Up movies
have GREAT choice in characters because the lead roles in both films
are gorgeous. Both girls and guys. I am a big fan of dancing movies in
general, and these two both top my list. Ignore the bogus comments.
Definitely worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
A rebellious street dancer named Andie, part of Baltimore's most
intimidating dance crew, the 410, who is given a chance to attend the
prestigious Maryland School of the Arts. She finds it difficult to fit
into her new school life while keeping her friends from the 410.
Determined to prove her skills, she assembles an eclectic crew of
classmates that includes Chase, the schools best dancer, to compete
against the 410 in the premier underground dance battle in Baltimore,
The Streets.

I quite enjoyed Step Up, although the plot was clich√©d and predictable,
but the dance moves were good. Now picture that, times TEN! Anyone
crazy enough to see this movie for the plot should not see this film.
Why would anyone see this movie? The dance moves.

There are double the dancing sequences and double the greatness! I was
won over by it. The charming two leads and the lovable characters add
as the cherry on top. The plot? There's nothing there. Been there. Done
that. However, if you set your expectations right, you'll be surprised
to turn out that you like this movie.

Obviously, if you're an older person, you may not like this movie as
much as if you're a teen. Of course, the demographics for this movie is
to attract teens. All in all, this is about a notch or two better than
the original, but plotwise, it's the same. Watch this movie for the
dances. Not the plot. Otherwise, the piece is entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
"Step Up 2 the streets" is a movie that is for a fun, "no-thinking"
outing. The sequel to the popular "Step Up" was obviously not as good
as the first (sequels and prequels never really are) but it was a fun
film to watch.

There was a few good comedic scenes, and the street dancing really was
incredible, especially at the end of the movie. This kind of movie is
obviously going to be a little bit predictable and cheesy, but still-
it's fun to see with some friends on a Saturday night.

Also, the soundtrack really helped improve the movie; there were many
excellent, cool songs playing throughout the film, such as "The Way I
are" by Timbaland and "Low" by Flo-rida ft. T-Pain.

If you give it a chance, you may enjoy it. It depends on whether or not
you enjoy feel-good, funny dance movies. If not, then don't go see it!
The final verdict: Step Up 2 is a moderately fun film.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expected this movie to be much fun, but it was! The story
obviously wasn't that great and the ending was predictable. But this
movie didn't pretend to be "intelligent", it never tries it! The story
is told clearly and there aren't to much unnecessary scenes. The
dancing is good and there are various funny scenes! Everything a
entertaining mainstream movie has to have. The acting is mostly OK, no
major problems found, although there are a lot of stereotypes used in
the movie (the handsome white guy, the envious ex-girlfriend, the
"Looser", the "bad" black guy,...). But which movie doesn't have them?
I also like the soundtrack, a lot of good tracks can be hear with great
dancing performances. This movie deserves 5 out of ten points!
