
Monte Carlo is a charming movie for tweens and/or teens. Several other
reviewers disliked the movie calling it predictable and boring but I
have to vehemently disagree. If you are looking for a cute, adventurous
movie with NO SWEARING, NO NUDITY, NO SEXUAL SCENES or INNUENDOS, NO
SMOKING, and NO DRUGS then this is the movie for you (and us!)! This
movie reminds me of some of the 1960's Disney movies that were
plot-wise too old for little kids but still 'safe' for the not quite
teenagers.

This is a classic movie about mistaken identity and learning to get
along. The 3 main characters in the movies are all very different
personalities but they grow and learn to accept each other by the end
of the movie. They also have very different 'happy endings' but seeing
how different they are, the characters should end happily-ever-after
differently.

There are some funny moments, some thinking 'would I do that?' moments,
and some 'good for her' moments. You genuinely like each of these
characters (except the mean girl) by the end of the show whether you
liked them at the beginning or not.

This movie is perfect for its target audience of tweens/early teens and
I wish more movies like this were available with today's stars!
<|_=00=_|>
I almost didn't watch the movie because I saw the reviews of others
here on IMDb. In the end I decided to try it anyway and was pleasantly
surprised. Sure, the story has been done before, and in the end it may
not be the most realistic, but that's not why you should want to watch
this movie anyway. It's a happy, feel-good movie about following your
dreams that, when you finish watching it, leaves you with a smile on
your face. I recommend this to anyone with a bit of extra time who just
wants to watch a relaxing, cheerful movie like me (a 21 year old girl
XD) or for anyone who wants a nice, clean movie to watch for or with
their children. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
"Monte Carlo" follows Grace, Meg and Emma as they travel to Paris, the
city of light. However their trip doesn't turn out as good as they
hoped it would be. Everything's terrible. Their booked tour, their
hotel, their rooms- everything! But their luck changes when Grace is
mistaken for a wealthy British celebrity.

This was a sloppily done movie. I'm regretting that I actually went to
the movie theater to watch it. This movie's quality was on par with
many of the TV movies that Disney has made. The actual plot seemed like
it was hastily done and had a few plot holes. Also, I found that each
girl's romance stories were unrealistic, underdeveloped and mostly
boring.

However, while watching the movie, I did find myself enjoying myself
and even chuckling a bit. But maybe it's just because of my age. I
don't suggest watching this movie if you're over the age of 15. Or if
you aren't female.

Viewed on: July 8, 2011
<|_=00=_|>
Selena Gomez stars as an optimistic teen from Texas in this
comedy...now I use the word comedy loosely since unless you're under
the age of twelve, it's doubtful that you'll ever physically laugh
while viewing this film. Gomez's Grace has been saving pennies for
years while working a thankless waiting job and attending her high
school classes. Finally a graduate, she and her best friend, Emma,
played by the strikingly beautiful Katie Cassidy, are off to Paris for
a vacation of a lifetime. But no fairy-tale is complete without the
unwanted stepsister tagging alone, this time portrayed by Leighton
Meester.

In what could have offered some comedic moments but somehow failed to,
the girls realize their tour of Paris just doesn't live up to
expectations. Add that with the fact Grace and Emma aren't exactly fond
of Grace's uptight stepsister, the vacation is a nightmare to the
girls. Luckily, this is where the magic comes in and it is discovered
that Grace has an identical look-alike who happens to stroll into the
hotel where the girls are. Add some cheesy contrivances and a few
unbelievable plot twists and bam! The girls find themselves on a
private jet to Monte Carlo, where Grace will be posing as her snotty
doppleganger Cordelia.

The girls then go into romantic individual story lines, each one more
dull and pointless than the next. Grace's romance with French socialite
Theo evolves at a rapid and completely unrelatable pace. He literally
dislikes her one second and then decides that because she likes horses
that she's "different" and the one for him. They briefly check out some
fireworks and fall for each other without exchanging so much as an
e-mail address. Emma must decide between a snooty guy she meets who
rarely speaks and is played by an unknown actor or her sweet Texan
boyfriend played by popular Glee heartthrob Cory Monteith. Gee, I
wonder who she will choose in the end? The most intriguing relationship
as far as romance goes to Meg and Riley. Riley is a forward Australian
mate who manages to open up Meg's hard exterior and help her come to
terms with her mother's passing while they fall for each other. Their
romance has a slight adventurous quality to it that's somewhat
redeemable.

The thing about Monte Carlo is that while it's not horrifically
offensive, it's hardly passable for entertainment. It's dull, long,
boring, and stretched out over practically two hours in a simple and
cheesy story that could've been handled in 90 minutes. Gomez, who has a
great sense of comedic timing and charisma that she showcases on her
poorly written Disney Channel series Wizards of Waverly Place, won me
over on a show that's just not good, so it's unfortunate that she has
yet to find a film that will truly utilize her skills and allow her to
showcase her true star potential to the world. Hopefully she'll be
given further chances after this failure. Leighton and Katie are also
very likable in their roles, but the film's weak script and lack of
comedy can't save this dull film. Despite all of the above, the scenery
is gorgeous and the three young actresses are not to blame for this
poor excuse for a romantic comedy. Especially when there are great
family films out there featuring female leads that cover all age-groups
such as Disney's Tangled.
<|_=00=_|>
Monte Carlo is a sweet romantic comedy in the same vain as The Lizzie
McGuire Movie, the story is about a small town gal from Texas, her best
friend and her uptight sister who all travel to Paris for a week, only
to get separated from their tour group, they take refuge in the nearest
hotel and one of the gals is mistaken for a wealthy British heiress and
that's when the story takes off. Cue lots of awkward situations and a
cute love story and there you have it.

Selena Gomez is quite nice to watch, as is Miss Meester and Katie
Cassidy, all three girls have their own storyline throughout the film
and each get their chance to shine. Full props to Selena for being
entirely convincing as a snooty British snob, she nailed it. The one
thing I didn't get was everyone in the movie from Texas has a Texan
accent except Selena, I don't know if this was a deliberate mistake or
just plain laziness, but for me it was the only thing that bothered me.

The movie is quite girly, not that that's a bad thing, that's the
target audience, but for me it was still easy to watch and enjoyable
enough. Give it a go, its not a classic teen film but hey, it's nice
enough for a movie night with the girls. :)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie should have been good I was so looking forward to it. They
had an attractive cast and beautiful locations. How could they go
wrong? It's pretty bad. The premise is familiar but still usually works
- 3 American girls go to Europe and fall into mischief and romance. The
problem is there is very little romance and very little humor. The
screenplay is badly written without amusing situations or a build up of
romance. The dialog is not witty or charming. Hardly any laughs. The
directing is bad and choppy. Scenes just seem to jump from one to
another abruptly. Leighton Meester is a good actress on Gossip Girl but
here she seems to have just limited expressions. Katie Cassidy is
slightly miscast a bit too together looking to be what she plays. The
casting is strange. Selena Gomez looking like a British heiress? Not
only does she not look the part her accent and acting in her 2
characters are not different enough. The male leads Cory Monteith who
is a bit of a limited actor usually and Pierre Boulanger don't have
much to work with. Only saving grace the locations and scenery are
spectacular and it has a very on location feel. Overall: See if it you
are a die hard fan of one or more of them but prepared to be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
If you had asked me who was Selena Gomez a few months back, I would
have just blinked at you. If not for attending Justin Bieber's 3D
documentary film, being intrigued by his internet fueled meteoric
success and inevitably feeding off the tabloids on his career, I would
not have known who the lead actress was, but now I do. Based loosely on
the novel Headhunters by Jules Bass, the release of Monte Carlo this
week in the US and Singapore would probably be deemed suicidal, if not
for its appeal to the intended demographic left out of the testosterone
filled Transformers, and the more mature movie going audience who would
likely flock to Larry Crowne starring Tom Hanks and Julia Roberts
(opens in Singapore next week to avoid a three-way battle).

And appeal to that group it does, playing up to its favourite things
that if I were a girl I would gobble this up hook, line and sinker.
There's travelling to Europe, Paris no less, with a BFF, and a sister
you'd love to hate in tow, meeting attractive and more importantly,
single guys at every turn, travelling in luxury from being ferried in
private jets and limousines, rubbing shoulders with royalty and the
rich and famous, as well as having an arsenal of gorgeous outfits to
get into topped off by million dollar jewellery, participating in
exotic games and attending the coolest parties. Sounds like fun,
doesn't it?

But that's about it, with the film very much set in territory already
explored in countless of films dealing with coincidental, mistaken
identity, where the Prince and the Pauper switch places  this one
being one sided and without permission  for the pauper to experience
the high life, leading onto moralistic questions such as whether one
will be enticed by things superficial and materialistic, or will one
return to one's humble roots with morals, principles and values intact.
It's the same old usual themes about wanting to fulfill personal
objectives and dreams, whatever they may be, whether done so through
hard work, or just by meeting the right people.

Selena Gomez takes on two roles here, although her role as the mean
British heiress Cordelia Winthrop Scott looks like she's suffering from
a constant PMS. Her other main role is of course as Grace, the simple
waitress from Texas who had graduated and is taking her graduating trip
to Paris with best friend Emma (Katie Cassidy), only for her parents to
get her half-sister Meg (Leighton Meester) to tag along despite their
hating of each other's guts. So begins the journey of self-discovery
for all  Grace to decide whether she should keep up with the charade
she and her pals find themselves in at the risk of being a fraud to
Theo (Pierre Boulanger) of the Hotel de Paris, Emma to try and figure
out if the high life and potentially rich royal-family linked
acquaintance can be anything more than friends as compared to her
troubled boyfriend Owen (Cory Monteith), and Meg learning to becoming
less uptight while getting swept off her feet by Aussie tourist Riley
(Luke Bracey).

Yes, that's all the romance lined up, as they zip around the different
places in luxurious Monte Carlo, having the second act centered around
closure in and around a million dollar necklace meant for a charity
auction. In some ways that was the best part of the film as finally
there is a sense of purpose and urgency to try and resolve everything
amicably and set their identities straight as their charade comes to
the inevitable close, with well timed, expected comedy to pave the way
to a finale that ends all too conveniently.

Naturally the landscapes make up the film with its far flung, beautiful
locations that would just make you want to save up enough to jet set in
the same fashion, trying very hard to make you forget the many plot
conveniences and coincidences, for the very obviously predictable way
this teeny bopper film is appealing to the teenage female population
through the latest It girl making that transition from music to film.
Strictly or the fans only.
<|_=00=_|>
How did I come watching film like this? A girl friend I was seeing
wanted to see so I went along. I hate films like these. First I am not
a girl and it is a typically girl movie, second I am too old for
something like this.Since I have to fill lines for this film I will
fill them by saying that actors are pretty and costumes are nice.
France is fantastic like always, and it is pity that I do not have
money to live there.

I love France, every bit of it, from Paris to Cote D*Azzure I could
freely make France my home, but I still think this film is for someone
else. Vive la France and Monaco Aussie!
<|_=00=_|>
Who needs magic pants when you can combine the great scenery of Texas,
Paris, and Monte Carlo into one fun flick? This is a feature that
allows its girls to have their cake, and eat it too, as Marie
Antoinette might say. Selena Gomez follows in the footsteps of THE
PRINCE & THE PAUPER, THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK, A TALE OF TWO CITIES,
and most especially, THE PATTY DUKE SHOW from TV's Golden Age as two
look-alike characters, the winning Texan Grace Bennett and the stuck-up
Brit Cordelia Winthrop Scott. Fortunately, no one spends decades in a
dungeon or gets their head lopped off in this story. Some temporarily
missing jewelry threatens to throw a monkey wrench into the happy
endings for the small-town America 18- to 21-year-old girl trio, but
the tone set from the git-go by writer\director Thomas Bezucha
forecasts the frowns will be turned upside down by the end credits.
Leighton Meister as Grace's new older step-sister Meg and Katie Cassidy
as Grace's older best friend and waitress coworker Emma acquit
themselves well as the salt and pepper to Grace's sugar. Perhaps it is
no coincidence that Grace's last name is Bennett, as Gomez should be
old enough to tackle the next PRIDE & PREJUDICE remake.
<|_=00=_|>
Grace (Selena Gomez) lives in Texas, works in a diner, and has just
earned her high school diploma. Since receiving a snow globe of Paris
when she was young, Grace has been saving money to go on a weeklong
vacation to France. Now that graduation is over, she and her close
friend, Emma (Katie Cassidy) have the tickets and plan to take off.
But, wait. Grace's parents (Brett Cullen and Andie McDowell), newly
married, decide that older stepsister, Meg (Leighton Meister) must go
along to keep everyone safe. Neither Grace or Meg is happy with this
arrangement but decide it will be preferable to no trip at all. Once in
Paris, the tour and the hotel are far short of expectations for all of
the girls, causing disappointment. But, the trio of gals has a chance
eavesdrop with a young British aristocrat, Cordelia (also Selena Gomez)
that changes their vacation. Grace discovers that Cordelia is breaking
commitments she made for a fund raising in Monte Carlo and going
undercover for a few days. Thus, an opportunity arises for Grace to
step into Cordelia's shoes, for they resemble identical twins. Once
landing in Monaco, the girls are treated like royalty, with fabulous
hotel accommodations and a closet full of designer clothes. Holding her
breath, Grace finds that no one suspects that she is an impostor, not
even the handsome son of the charity's director. He serves as her guide
and "date". Emma, too, finds herself the object of affection for the
local guys, although she is practically engaged to her boyfriend, Owen,
back in Texas. Finally, reserved Meg also comes out of her shell when
she meets a dashing Australian tourist. Thus, for a few days, it is a
slice of "royal heaven" for the vacationers. But, will the deception be
discovered and what will be the consequences if it is? This is a lovely
looking film with a beautiful, talented young star, Gomez. A natural
performer with a sweet-and-saucy air, she makes the most of her duel
roles. Cassidy, Meister, and all of the other cast members do nice
work, too. Naturally, the costumes and sets are quite lovely. But, and
its huge issue, the script doesn't contain nearly enough comedy or
cleverness to sustain a complete film. The premise, yes, is good but
the execution is lacking. Then, too, the direction doesn't help matters
with its complete dirth of energy. Therefore, the film plods along and
has some boring moments. Thankfully, the finale makes a splash but its
almost too late. Girls, young and old, will like the film and patiently
overlook the dull bits. But, any others forced to watch it will be
scowling up a storm.
