
There's no doubt about it: Meryl Streep will be nominated for her 17th
Academy Award for her portrayal of Britain's most controversial Prime
Minister, Margaret Thatcher, in this otherwise underwhelming biopic.
Streep is mesmerizing as usual, but the mode of storytelling employed
by screenwriter Abi Morgan and director Phyllida Lloyd  sporadic
flashbacks among elongated stretches of following the elderly and
mentally fragile Maggie  is a huge misfire. The scenes which recount
her path from young adulthood through to local politics and then to her
11 years of turbulent leadership are intriguing, however they are too
far and few between to really grip. Sure, it checks off the list as far
as famous moments go, but a more in depth insight into how she ran the
country would've been nice.
<|_=00=_|>
This film had so much potential to open peoples eyes to one of the most
influential politicians of the time and all it does is focus on an
elderly persons slide into dementia.

Approximately two thirds of the film is spent on the post 2003 era
(post Dennis Thatchers death) with Thatcher wandering round her flat,
talking with her daughter, hallucinating about Dennis, throwing clothes
out etc etc. Not only is this thoroughly depressing but it is also so
frustrating as you are forced to sit through Streep doing her "I want
an Oscar, I want an Oscar" sales pitch.

There were so many highly charged/globally reported moments and periods
throughout her prime minister-ship which were just brushed over or
completely skipped - the poll tax (which attracts about 5mins of the
film), the miners strikes (less than 5 minutes), the Iranian embassy
siege (no mention of at all), the Falklands war (maybe 15 minutes but
deserved so much more), the policy of privatisations (minimal), and
crucially the impact her leadership had on the country (nothing). And
this is before raising the events that developed her into the women she
was - all that is provided here is a few flashbacks to her father
speaking in public. There is no real mention of her fight for the
leadership, nothing on her career before politics, and very little
about her developmental years (university etc).

In summary it just seems this film was out to try and get in the
running for as many Oscars as it could and they didn't care if they
screwed any one over to get there. 

Not only is Margaret Thatchers retirement private but her declining
health should not be used as an opportunity for someone to get in the
running for an Oscar. Have some respect!

If they were after a film which created an emotional reaction they
certainly succeeded.
<|_=00=_|>
Before viewing, "The Iron Lady", I didn't really know much about
Margaret Thatcher. Other than she was the prime minister of England for
11 years, she was a very controversial figure and still is to this day.
So I was really interested to see the film and I decided to visit the
WGA screening.

Now let me begin by saying, Meryl Streep embodies Margaret Thatcher.
She doesn't just look like her, but she talks like her, her facial
expressions are spot on. Meryl Streep becomes Margaret Thatcher. I
would be shocked if she doesn't win an Oscar for this performance. The
supporting cast is good too, Jim Broadbent gives an excellent
performance, everyone is just great.

However aside from the top notch acting, the movie had a few flaws. The
story was uninteresting at times, the flashback scenes were a bit
muddled and a little confusing. The movie felt a little too safe, it
tried too hard, not to be controversial. Although I don't entirely
blame the film itself for that. Margaret Thatcher was such a decisive
person, that whichever side the film picked, it would be criticized by
a lot of people. I guess the film ultimately achieved the goal.

I also liked the movie didn't dwell too much on the politics, but on
the character of Margaret Thatcher. We see the human side of The Iron
Lady herself, beyond all the partisan politics and rumors, we get to
see a very personal and sad side of her. The subplot focusing on
Thacther's grief over her husband's death, as the older version battles
with hallucinations and an unwillingness to let go of her dear Denis
are heartbreaking.

Overall the movie was really well done, but just shy of greatness.
Meryl Streep's performance and the supporting cast, truly elevates the
film into a great biopic. Although I wished a little more time was
spent on focusing on her political life, the movie successfully showed
a deep and moving side of the prime minister. Which a lot of biopics
fail to do. Whatever your opinions might be on Margaret Thatcher, don't
fault the movie because of the opinion. And I highly respect Phyllida
LLoyd, Meryl Streep, Abi Morgan and others for trying to portray such a
decisive and highly controversial figure.
<|_=00=_|>
Biopics are always a problem. That's why the long form, HBO style is
infinitely more suitable and altogether more satisfying. Okay, now,
once that aside, let me talk about Meryl Streep. A miracle! She does
the impossible, not only manages to inhabit Thatcher, she also reveals
her under a slightly different light. The human light. No matter how
much at odds I've been with her politics, I saw that human side through
Meryl Streep's eyes and realized that I had forgotten to remember,
Thatcher was a human being, a woman breaking ground. She loved her
husband but put her career first, as most men in her position do. Her
drive is a mystery as much a mystery as Meryl Streep's art. After
seeing the film, me, a life long anti-Thatcher, I have to say that it's
a fair portrait of the woman. The ones who never heard of Margaret
Thatcher, and there are, two of them were sitting next to me in
theater, I think they thought "The Iron Lady" was the female version of
"Iron Man" but even them surrendered to the character trough the
glories of this other giant of our generation, Meryl Streep.
<|_=00=_|>
Meryl Streep's performance in this movie was phenomenal. Unfortunately
the movie (if you can call it that) was not. If you want to go see a
movie about the life and career of Margaret Thatcher do not waste your
time. If you want to see an elderly woman struggling with dementia for
2 hours then this is your movie. The movie barely goes over Thatcher's
rise to prime minister or her personal life. Instead 80% of the movie
focuses on Thatcher's current health state, only showing her confused
and disoriented. The movie does a few 5 minute flashes to her past but
it probably only amounts to about 25 minutes. Finally I find it
despicable that instead of highlighting Thatcher's achievements,
Hollywood choose to exploit her dementia a condition she has kept from
the public and tried to be extremely private about.
<|_=00=_|>
In purely cynical terms, one has to wonder if the makers of The Iron
Lady wanted to release a film about old age and senility but were
warned that such a sombre topic would never perform well at the box
office. You can almost imagine some studio executive saying "no, no,
no, we can't possibly promote that sort of movie. Unless you make it
about someone famous that would make people go and see it." Although
advertised as an account of the life and political career of Margaret
Thatcher, the film doesn't come close to doing justice to such a vast
topic. Instead we get a whistle-stop tour of key events  five minutes
of the miners' strike, five minutes of the Brighton bombing, three
minutes about Poll Tax, and so on. The nearest the film gets to real
depth, politically-speaking, is when it devotes fifteen whole minutes
of precious screen time to the Falklands War.

No, this is not a true political biopic in the usual sense. What we
have here is a thin and rather dull story about an old lady's
deteriorating health, punctuated along the way with flashbacks to the
events that shaped her career. The fact that the old lady in question
is Margaret Thatcher comes across almost as a gimmick. They could have
made the film about any elderly lady, fictional or real - it would
scarcely have mattered. All the important aspects of Thatcher's
policies and the legacy her government left behind are dealt with in
far too shallow a manner, while any insight into Thatcher as a person
gets lost amidst an onrush of excessive newsreel footage. Indeed, it
seems as if 25% of the film comprises of these old archival bits and
pieces, which really is a case of overkill.

Since the narrative amounts to nothing more than a series of jerky
flashbacks, all superficial and absurdly brief, one wonders if there is
any reason to watch the film at all. Fortunately, there is one aspect
of The Iron Lady that shines like a glowing beacon through the gloom 
and that is the marvellous performance of Meryl Streep. Streep's
portrayal of the former Prime Minister is a masterclass in screen
acting. The voice, the mannerisms, the physical appearance, the haughty
attitude she nails it all. There are some notable names alongside her
in the cast too, but generally they are in sub-par form. In some cases
they're undone by poor writing, like Jim Broadbent's cartoonish "ghost
of Dennis Thatcher", while others simply have too little screen time to
get their teeth into the part (Richard E. Grant for example who, as
Michael Heseltine, is so under-used that he simply fails to register).

Some might say the film has been made a generation too soon, since the
scars of Thatcherite politics still run deep in many parts of the UK.
Nonetheless, a controversial but powerful biopic could and should have
resulted here if anyone associated with it had shown the courage to
take a standpoint. Timidly, the film neither celebrates nor condemns
Thatcher. It wimps out by presenting its entire story through the eyes
of her as a mentally fragile old lady, thereby avoiding the need to
"take a side". All in all, The Iron Lady is a missed opportunity.
Streep's performance drags it up to the level of a watchable curiosity
item but that's about the best it can offer.
<|_=00=_|>
It's simply wrong to make a biographical film about a person, as
extraordinary as Margaret Thatcher and devote, I don't know, 70 or 80%
of the time to her rather depressing late years of deteriorating
health, especially on the mental side. And the real life Margaret
Thatcher is a rather private person who tried to keep her health
problems secret. Thus, most of what this film presents is obviously a
piece of guesswork. Moreover, Thatcher's children described the film as
"left-wing fantasy" and we also know that Thatcher's daughter Carol was
often with her during this period. So, what's the point of a film, that
pretends to be "biographical" when 80% of it is guesswork at best, and
somebody else's fiction at worst? 

It is also highly unethical to delve into the mental condition of a
living person who tried and tries to keep her private life and health
issues really private. There are reasons why we call it "private" and
doctor-patient confidentiality "confidential". It seems like those
principles are beyond the intellectual (moral, or both) capacity of the
Hollywood suits behind this movie.

Thatcher became a household name, not only in the UK, but throughout
the world, and yet, all her political achievements are presented in a
telegraphic style, sometimes just as segments of a news bulletin read
by some news presenter. She was called 'the iron lady' by the Soviet
propaganda machine in an attempt to discredit her image, her strong
positions and alliance with Reagan formed the core of the entire
Western policy toward the Soviet union resulting in winning the Cold
War, and yet, the authors of this movie choose to completely disregard
this side of her story, as if this was some annoying mosquito, just
spoiling the bizarre shadenfreude fun they are having with the senile,
80-year old lady.

Thatcher herself is adamant during one of her fights with her husband
that he always knew she puts her works first and yet, the film tries to
focus on her private life issues, again, by means of sheer guesswork.
Why? The only explanation is ideological spin, since the creators try
to present the old and rather frail former prime minister as sad,
doubting her past, and in some scenes she is even insecure not only as
an old, senile lady, wandering around her digs, but also during her
prime time, as a head of government. Priceless screening time is wasted
while none of the issues she had to deal with is presented with any
depth whatsoever.

Occasionally, the film is reduced to a vaudeville, as in the scene
where she is about to enter her No.10 residence for the first time as a
PM or employs one-dimensional clichés, such as the symbolism of
Thatcher talking about 'taking the wheel in her own hands' and then
pushing the car to the right, while her daughter is in the driving
seat. What is the purpose of this demented symbolism? No matter how
unwashed the masses are, they can still figure that this film is about
a confident, self-made woman who takes matters in her own hands and
pushes her country to the right. Why an obvious metaphor, pointing at
the obvious? 

The only true merit, that can be attributed to this unhinged and rather
prolonged exercise in shadenfreude, is that it represents the true
spirit of her public life in general  a strong-willed, principled
person, a woman with SPINE, successfully fighting against an
intellectually and morally constipated establishment, unhinged
left-wing militants and impotent political opposition. Well, the
political opposition turned out impotent because it was Margaret
Thatcher who single-handedly rendered it that way. There are some truly
powerful moments, however, when the young Margaret was listening to her
father's speech, clearly, his words having authoritative, formative,
inspirational influence on what she was about to become, or when she
masterfully fights off the attacks of both her political opponents and
spineless colleagues.

Obviously, Meryl Streep is a very good actress, and she is spot on
Thatcher's voice and mannerisms, but this is just good professionalism,
nothing extraordinary, way too many actors are capable of doing that
these days. Does she deserve another Oscar for this performance? If
there is nothing better this year on the movie front in her category,
hell yes.

The only reason this picture should be seen is as a weird example of
how a biopic (of a person of Margaret Thatcher's caliber) should not be
made,it's a half-baked distraction of what her real biography should
look like .
<|_=00=_|>
*Contains Spoilers* Just been to see The Iron Lady and was sorely
disappointed with the film from start to finish. The main reasons for
me were because.....

The majority of the film is centred around Margaret Thatcher in her
later years and how she is coping with life without her husband, Denis,
and with onsetting memory loss and ill health. I was looking forward to
getting more insight into her time in politics as Prime Minister.
Unfortunately the focus is simply not there and felt in short supply in
terms of screen time for when these were broached.

The little time that there is reference in the film to some of the
major events (riots, Falklands, IRA, Brighton bombing etc) these are
always associated with real footage, and these simply did not work for
me. The juxtaposition between shots of Margaret & her entourage versus
the real footage is so jarring as to feel almost amateurish in my
opinion.

I'm not going to make any comment on the actual politics of Margaret
Thatcher (everyone will have their own feelings on 'MT' as a person &
as a politician), but interestingly there seemed to be a real
reluctance in the film to do this either. There was no full exploration
of the good v the bad in terms of Margaret's behaviour or
decision-making / the real political successes v the real political
failures etc. I suspect there was a lot of 'smoothing over' of some of
the events when the hard-hitting facts would have made for a far more
interesting watch.

Sadly, I only have to compare The Iron Lady to The Ides of March to see
how much of a disappointment The Iron Lady is and what a wasted
opportunity to make an exceptional film about a well-known Brit.
Whether Meryl Streep's performance will land her an Oscar, we'll wait
and see, but to me there seems something a bit incongruous with someone
winning a best actor/actress award off the back of such a poor film
overall. Sorry Meryl - loved you in It's Complicated!
<|_=00=_|>
Although Meryl Streep's performance was truly brilliant, the film was
not.

The switch from now to past events and back again didn't seem to follow
any logic and everything seemed to be treated in an over superficial
manner. There are a few substantial historical inaccuracies with regard
to the Labour Party. 

*Spoilers*

Far too many newsreel clips are used from the actual time, superimposed
by Mrs Thatcher's car being mobbed by angry protesters. At no point
were protesters ever able to get that close to the PM's car and such
incidents showing people actually pressing up against the car are
entirely fictitious.

The leader of the opposition is incorrectly shown as Michael Foot
during the Heath government, when he didn't become leader of the party
until after Labour's defeat in 1979. The actual leader was Harold
Wilson who isn't even portrayed in the film.

During Margaret Thatcher's time as the Leader of the Opposition, Harold
Wilson was Prime Minister, resigning in favour of James Callaghan who
actually lost the election to Mrs Thatcher in 1979. Again omitted by
the film.
<|_=00=_|>
An old lady, complaining about the price of milk per pint, perfectly
normal, especially with the recent inflation of staple goods, that is
unless you know, or until you realize that it's Margaret Thatcher. It
is a particularly touching scene, a crafty way of subliminally telling
us about how she was in-touch with society, in touch with the lives of
her constituents, of the people. Back in Chester Square, security is
upset that she went out alone, 81 and suffering from Dementia, one
shouldn't go out unsupervised, especially the most famous ex-prime
minister of the recent century. We see Thatcher conversing with Dennis,
who died in '03, and now lives in Margaret as a ghost, we see her
cleaning out Dennis's old clothes at Carol's prompting, with flashback,
after flashback, giving us a chronological tour of her life, from
Greengrocer's Daughter, to a true Iron Lady. It is a beautifully
crafted film, however the flashbacks do get repetitive, and could've
had more depth, and explored more of her life. It seems as though the
film can't really seem to decide what to focus on, and goes for a
little bit of everything. It gives us however, a slightly boring at
times, but beautifully shot film that embodies, and exudes emotion, and
loss, it truly does tell a story of a woman, and what she sacrificed
for her country, and for the common, greater good. The star of the film
however, is none other, unsurprisingly than one Mary Louise Streep. She
kills the film, and elevates it to a whole other level. You see her
full of vulnerability with the age, and at points she is so believable,
I couldn't believe it was an actress, and not the real Thatcher. But,
in her glory day you see her change, from the rise, and the softer
higher voice she was so often criticised and heckled for, to the
alcohol roughed, and experience voice of the PM, the softer interview,
statesman voice, to the home voice, all perfect, and spot on. She isn't
just a caricature of Thatcher, for the 2 hours of the film she is
Thatcher, pearls, and all. She channels Thatcher's essence, and gives
us scenes such as her final stand, where she is in Paris the night of
the fateful Conservative Leadership election, which forced her to stand
down. As she stands there in Paris, we see a woman who is very much in
control, yet also on the verge of sickness, and losing control. We see
a scene where she is haunted almost by Dennis's ghost as she says
something along the lines of not going mad is breathtaking, that it
defines the pinnacle, of acting, and thespian chops. This performance
will be regarded as the pinnacle of acting, dethroning Sophie's Choice
in 1982, giving us our next Best Actress winner. Who'll be sure to be
seen many times more as a nominee, and a winner in the future.
Congratulations to the 3 time Oscar Winner Meryl Streep, the 84th
Academy Award's Best Actress in a Leading Role. Film itself 8.5/10,
Meryl Streep 12/10 Averages out to a 9.
