
In the plot of Eagle Eye,there are elements taken from the books
written by William Gibson,the video game Portal and movies like Enemy
of the State,I Robot and a long etcetera.But,in spite of that,I had a
very good time watching this movie.There's no doubt it's unoriginal but
the movie has an enormous energy that takes possession of the
spectator,so the final experience is very entertaining.The action
scenes are very well filmed : they are exciting and they feel
realistic.The movie has a good tone because it never stops
entertaining.The actors also did a good job.Shia LaBeouf,Michelle
Monaghan,Billy Bob Thornton,Michael Chiklis and Rosario Dawson bring a
lot of enthusiasm to their characters.I'm usually against the lack of
originality but,there are some occasions in which,that fail is redeemed
with a lot of good elements.Eagle Eye is one of that cases.I can easily
recommend this movie.I had a very good time watching it and it did not
bore me even a second.
<|_=00=_|>
Ah, the seemingly perfect combination of Steven Spielberg, director
D.J. Caruso, and everyman leading star Shia LaBeouf. These guys took us
by storm with the pleasant surprise Disturbia last year, and pretty
much anything with the name Spielberg on it has to be at least
entertaining, if not excellent. That's what Eagle Eye is.

First off, I cannot stress this enough: don't take this movie
seriously. Please don't get mad because the movie isn't realistic. I
know it's unrealistic. You know it. Shia LaBeouf knows it. That doesn't
stop Eagle Eye from being one of the most entertaining and effective
thrillers of recent memory. Is it as smart or as gripping as other
chase and mystery thrillers such as the Bourne series? Of course not.
However, whenever Eagle Eye stretches our minds to the breaking limits
with the insanity on screen, it manages to throw in a mind boggling
action sequence or two right as we start to get mad.

The film, very well masked by trailers that really only show the
beginning of the film and small pieces of the end, deals with
cyber-terrorism and a secret military project dealing with destruction
and national security. The US Secretary of Defense is portrayed
(Michael Chiklis), it's incredibly unrealistic, has Shia LaBeouf, and
has a prominent military character (Anthony Mackie). I can already here
the Transformers comparisons flying in. The film also lacks in the
originality department elsewhere, as elements of I, Robot and Live Free
or Die Hard are also present and quite obvious.

I cannot give enough accolades to whoever thought up this action -
Eagle Eye boasts arguably the best action sequences of the year. The
CGI is seamless and more than worthy of an Oscar nomination. With car
chases to rival the best of them, as well as one of the most clever
"on-foot" chases I've ever seen within an airport, Eagle Eye never
fails to grab your attention with the incredible action sequences.

Now to our cast, the headliners of which are two of film's biggest
rising stars. Both live up to their names and reputations admirably.
Shia LaBeouf revisits the "troubled youth" character he created in
Disturbia, though his turn here is darker and has more depth. He really
stretches some acting muscle in the beginning of the film, and it is
because of this early success that we are willing to go along for the
ride with him, following, trusting, and believing in his Jerry Shaw.
Michelle Monaghan, long one of the most underrated in the business,
also helps us believe in her character with a convincing show of
emotion early in the film. The whole film, despite the action
sequences, rides on the shoulders of the leads. If the audience doesn't
like them, the film will ultimately fail. I'm pleased to tell you that
they rise to the occasion and carry the film with ease.

Our supporting cast includes veterans Billy Bob Thornton and Michael
Chiklis. Maybe it was the script, but Thornton's character was so
stereotypical and overdone that it almost made him laughable -
especially towards the end. Chiklis did great in his role as the
Secretary of Defense - and the unfortunate "victim" of circumstance.
Rosario Dawson and Anthony Mackie are acceptable in even smaller roles.

I remember when I watched my first D.J. Caruso film a few years ago
(Two For the Money), and I remember how much I hated that film.
However, Caruso has certainly grown as a filmmaker and has found his
niche in the hugely entertaining action blockbuster genre, even if a
lot of "movie borrowing" is done. This will be his breakthrough that
will allow him a little more freedom as a filmmaker and possibly allow
him to blossom into more than just an action film director. The touches
of Spielberg are obvious, as the legendary director/producer's presence
is only a plus.

Eagle Eye, in short, is a summer blockbuster released in September. It
feels like a summer film, and has the components of a summer film:
explosions, terrorism, and Shia LaBeouf. It is everything you want in
an entertaining action thriller. Don't go looking for your super
realistic epic here - Eagle Eye prides itself on blowing your mind
every way possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Where to start with this movie. There are so many unbelievable premises
I don't even know where to start. Conspiracy theorists will love this
movie. Everyone else will just constantly find themselves saying
"Riiiiight." & "You've got to be kidding me" Let's just cover some of
the premises we are asked to believe:

1. There is a Super-Super Computer (called Aria) designed to recognize
threats to national security by monitoring every cell phone, computer,
video camera, and radio frequency in the world. All by itself. Stupid
evil Patriot Act.

2. Aria can make high tension power transmission lines overload and
snap exactly where she needs to just so the wire can fall and kill
someone that disobeyed her (Aria has a female voice).

3.Aria has decided that the President and his entire cabinet must be
eliminated because they didn't listen to her advice on a missile strike
in the Middle East, and thus must be a significant threat to the
national security of the United States. Pres and his cabinet must be
Republicans. 

4. Aria can read lips and follow conversations just by observing the
vibrations of the conversation on the surface of a cup of coffee. 

5. Aria can hack into any security camera, cell phone, airport metal
detector, remote controlled crane, etc. on a moment's notice and take
control of them. Totally anonymously. 

6. Aria can control anything and everything electronic in the world,
but can't overcome some internal programming that prevents her from
accomplishing her mission.

7. There is a newly discovered crystal that when properly triggered, a
1 carrot diamond sized piece of this crystal will demolish the Capitol
building.

8. It seems we have remotely piloted vehicles (RPV) that look just like
a Predator RPV sitting around the U.S. on military bases fully loaded
with missiles and machine guns just waiting for a demented Super-Super
Computer to take control of them. 

9. Apparently it takes about 4 days to get to D.C. from the Midwest by
passenger train. No wonder Amtrack is always in trouble...

10. If you slow your metabolism enough, you can survive a ride in the
un-pressurized bay of a military transport aircraft.

11. A single missile strike in the Middle East triggers the 'real'
Jihad world wide and threatens the U.S. and it's evil capitalistic
interests.

12. If you dress like a cop, you can waltz into the Capitol building
when the President and his entire staff are there and Congress is in
session. With a sidearm. Oh, and there is a secret access tunnel under
the Capitol.

13. The rest of the world has to pass through 20 layers of heavy
security to get to Aria's secret level of the Pentagon. But, if you
know the right computer, you can get direct access to Aria's level via
a service elevator that is nowhere near any security.

It just goes on, and on, and on through the entire movie. Jeez I
couldn't wait for it to be over and boy was I glad when it was! Uhg.
Nothing in the movie was believable. I thought Vantage Point was a bad
movie this was worse. Wait for the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Eagle Eye is a well-paced, action-packed popcorn movie up at the same
level as most of Shia LeBouf's other movies. It had just enough mystery
to keep a intellectual interest throughout the explosions, horrific
deaths (though, of course, the rating meant they were off-screen), and
originally awkward interaction between the two main characters. While
an attentive viewer will guess most of the "surprises" before they are
revealed, the question as to how the movie will ultimately end makes up
for any disappointment.

The acting was better than expected, the storyline as original as it
could hope to be, and, all in all, it is certainly a movie I suggest to
fans of action, Shia, or government conspiracies.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah, there is a bit of 2001 Space Odyssey, I Robot, Bourne
Supremacy--any movie that has computers, surveillance, and government,
coupled with unwilling participants. But it works. It does. Don't let
the naysayers dispel you from a movie worth watching. Who cares if
Spielberg favors Shia? I couldn't think who else could duck cars,
cranes, the FBI, and still crack a joke that fits right in place. From
Holes to Eagle Eye, Shia proves worth watching (okay, I Robot, was a
bit silly). Eagle Eye does start out fresh and exciting in the
beginning, gets a little boggy in the middle, and is soft at the
end--BUT, it is still worth the admission price. You won't want to
leave at anytime during the movie, the pace is so tightly executed. The
stunt action is primo--the car crashes alone are standout. And the
chase scene in the airport conveyor system is something else. The whole
question of do we have too much technology is the theme. Don't forget
to leave your cell phone at home.
<|_=00=_|>
Eagle Eye is not the best movie I've ever seen but it's much better
than some of the other junk that been out lately. Yes, it copies almost
every recent political thriller and yes it rips off some other movies
too, but don't most movies recently do the same. The action was good
and the main characters at least were made to be real people that you
could connect with. And Billy Bob Thornton was having so much fun and
was at his best since Armageddon. This movie proves again that Shia
LeBeouf has some talent, too bad he can't seem to stay off the
tabloids. Michelle Monaghan also was very good. Unlike some of the
critics I thought the ending was quite noble. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is what is wrong with modern cinema. This movie is an insult
to the public's intelligence. This movie is crap. First off I'm going
to spoil the hell out of this movie because if I succeed in anything
here it is to convince you to watch anything else. Watch Madagascar 2
if you have to. I give the movie a free pass on all the fantastic
assertions it makes about the capability of computers. This is a
supposed high tech, futuristic, super duper secret computer... so
anything is possible. HOWEVER: 1) Hollywood needs to get it through
their thick skulled craniums that the inclusion a powerful artificial
intelligence does not have to always be the big bad wolf... I get the
poetic significance of the human spirit vs. the evil machine but it's
been done hundreds of times by people far better. Even collectively the
writers: John Glenn, Travis Wright, Hillary Seitz, and Dan McDermott
are not a tenth of what Kubrick is. 2) If there were such a super
computer capable of anything from phone calls, traffic lights, planes,
trains, TVs and satellites it seems a little bit difficult to fathom
why it would need to recruit two numb skulls to do its bidding. 3) We
spend 2 hours watching these two unwittingly participate in an
elaborate, explosive (yet oddly perfectly timed) storyline to
ultimately fail. Apparently our super computer wasn't smart enough to
launch a missile, crash a plane, or any number of far simpler plots to
take out our government. In fact... even to take the given storyline
for what it was, all that was needed was a necklace and a note to be
played at the correct time. We sat through 2 hours to see that
complicated circumstance manifest itself? 4) Secret Service shoot to
kill, they do not wound or wing or pleasantly ask strange men with guns
shooting up the state of the union to please put your gun down. They
kill you. Why didn't they? Well that's what big bad evil computers do.
People don't kill people, that's just silly. 5) How is it a super
dooper future computer with unheard of technology and fabulous
artificial intelligence is brought down by a pipe to the eyeball? The
thing takes up a 4 story room and its eyeball is the weak spot? Why the
hell didn't they just stab it in the eye to begin with?!? I'd give this
farce less than one star but Flixter won't let me. I'll be waiting for
Eagle Eye 2. A supercomputer writes it and saves us from having to sit
through another collaborative effort of the 4 nitwits that gave us this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this is possibly the third film this year that has directly
involved a higher power turning 'insufficient funds' into a
considerable amount, and while this comparison is valid in a sense,
that's where similarities end. From the trailers I was imagining Eagle
Eye to be a cross between The Matrix and Wanted, but it's not not at
all. No, it is neither creatively similar nor anywhere near the same
quality. So despite some similarities, Eagle Eye at least delivers an
experience that is refreshing, but at the same time familiar. Not much
risk-taking is implemented here; there are virtually no new ideas of
any kind, and the themes present have all been battered to death in
countless novels and films that have frankly done the job far more
successfully. Read aloud, the script could easily be interpreted to be
a techno-phobe's transcription of a recurring nightmare; the government
tracking us all on phones, cameras lip-reading us etc. etc. and for the
most part, that is how the movie plays out. While these elements leave
an experience that will always have you guessing as to where the movie
is going next, the eventual climax of the film boils down to character
rather than plot, and as a result of spotty characterisation, the film
eventually falls flat. Despite some major issues however, Eagle Eye
still manages to retain a sense of spectacle, and the story, although
mostly a science-fiction dud for the most part, does move forward at a
decent rate. In this regard, the movie makes for good popcorn watching,
but not much else.

Following meek photo-copy shop clerk Jerry Shaw (Shia LaBeouf) as he
takes the road after being wrongly suspected as a terrorist by the FBI,
Eagle Eye is standard political thriller material; there's the hard-ass
government officials, the misunderstood civilian who is inevitably on
his way to save everyone, and the fragile love interest along for the
ride in the form of Rachel Holloman (Michelle Monaghan). What makes
this feature at least a little more interesting than the cookie-cutter
outline of thriller scripts however is that both these lead characters
are being led on a mysterious journey across the country by a
voice-on-a-phone who has access to all sorts of technology that governs
our civilisation from computers, phones and TVs to billboards and alarm
systems. Through this voice, Eagle Eye delivers its main theme of
technological sabotage and paranoia; Big Brother with ones and zeroes.
Of course, it's not the most original of ideas, and the movie's script
plays them as obvious as can be with no desire for subtlety at all. As
such, the writer's lack of anything interesting to say becomes apparent
after the first act comes to an end. As far as science-fiction goes,
it's standard thematic material. Again, no real developments or ideas
are plugged in here for you to digest, only well established ones
reiterated for your brainless entertainment.

One of the script's far more successful elements however lies in the
character of Jerry, and his off-screen relationship with his recently
deceased brother. Although the movie never transgresses beyond the
rather a-typical successful brother/lazy brother aesthetic, the writing
is focused and sharp enough to give actor LaBeouf enough material to
work with. So far this year LaBeouf has proved himself a highly capable
performer, and Eagle Eye does well to showcase his talents here. While
his chemistry with co-star Monaghan is almost non-existent, the actor
does well to cover up most of the holes in this mismatch, and in his
character in order to make Jerry a sympathetic, but engaging persona to
watch. As a leading man, LaBeouf still shows some restraint and doesn't
ever quite improve on his less-than-charismatic performance in
Transformers, but as was the case there, his small image often
complements the scope of the movie.

In the end, all the characters and their developed relations do
eventually come to an emotionally engaging climax that capitalises on
such developments with great conviction. Of course, there's a dud of an
ending that follows the real climax in order to provide picky viewers
with a bow on top of their cathartic package, but it doesn't hurt the
final payoff too much. Taken as a whole however, Eagle Eye certainly
isn't perfect but it isn't bad either. For popcorn entertainment,
director D.J. Caruso does his job well enough to create an engaging
thriller that delivers some action, some character and some plot, even
if it all feels a little underwhelming when put together. Anyone
looking for anything but fluffy action-orientated thrills driven by
mystery and spotty politics would be best to find something else to
chew on; mildly enjoyable, but not entirely memorable.

- Written by Jamie Robert Ward (http://www.invocus.net)
<|_=00=_|>
The "technology is everywhere" idea for "Eagle Eye" was hatched several
years ago from the brilliant mind of executive producer Steven
Spielberg. He wanted to do for electronic devices what he successfully
did for sharks in "Jaws." People feared going to the water after
watching Spielberg's 1975 masterpiece but I doubt they will stop using
technology because of "Eagle Eye." 

Yet, the film succeeds in instilling paranoia. It may not have reached
the cinematic tension of "Jaws," but you will still feel suspicious
about your cell phones, laptops, and GPS. Is Big Brother watching? In
"Eagle Eye," it's Big Sister who's doing all the controlling. Her
soothing but commanding voice (Julianne Moore in an uncredited role) is
manipulating people into doing exactly what she wants them to do. Her
motivation may be patriotic, but the means by which she carries out her
duties can be considered terroristic.

Acting as Big Sister's unwilling puppets are Shia LaBeouf and Michelle
Monaghan. Their characters unite to figure out who's the person behind
Big Sister's voice.

In his first adult leading man role, LaBeouf stars as Jerry Shaw, a
copy clerk in Chicago who's detached from his family. Compared to his
successful twin brother, an Air Force public relations officer, Jerry
is an underachieving loser with no ambition or dreams.

When his brother gets killed in a car crash, Jerry's life takes a
drastic turn for the worse. Suddenly, huge amounts of bomb-making
materials show up at his apartment, which prompt the FBI, headed by
Agent Thomas Morgan (the scene-stealing Billy Bob Thornton), to label
Jerry a terrorist.

Meanwhile, Monaghan's Rachel is busy being a single mom. Her little boy
is off to Washington, D.C. to play for the President in his school
band. That night, Rachel is enjoying an all-girls night out when she
receives "the" call. Her child's life is in danger, if she doesn't
follow directions precisely.

"Rachel Holloman you have been activated," says the soothing voice on
the other end of the line. "Your compliance is vital. We will derail
your son's train unless you do what you're told!" Cue action-packed
music.

Directed by D.J. Caruso, LaBeouf's partner-in-crime in "Disturbia,"
"Eagle Eye" is a non-stop action-thriller that's frenetic, chaotic, and
at times, overwhelming. Get ready to be assaulted by quick edits and
jerky camera movements  a barrage of sights and loud sounds which
sometimes culminates into mind-blowing special effects.

Amidst all the noise, the quiet performance by "The Shield's" Michael
Chiklis as Defense Secretary Callister stands out as the heart of the
movie. You can see that a world of responsibilities rests upon his
shoulders.

I also enjoyed the chemistry between LaBeouf and Monaghan. The romantic
tension is evident albeit inferred. If this is an 80s movie, the actors
would have made love, with guns a' blazing and a Journey soundtrack
playing in the background.

The biggest element I liked about "Eagle Eye" is its strong "what if"
factor. The hi-tech central plot of the film doesn't feel like science
fiction. Spielberg's imagination is truly ahead of his time. He
conjured up this scenario long before cell phones, laptops, and GPS
rule the world. So get off of your computer and watch "Eagle Eye." And
for that, "Eagle Eye" gets 3 "Big Sister's Watching" kisses.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the midnight Imax showing of Eagle Eye without my note-taking
material, thinking it was going to be just a political/espionage
thriller. To my surprise, it turned out to be science fiction, and
pretty effective SF at that.

Young slacker Jerry Shaw (Shia LaBoeuf) and single mom Rachel Holloman
(Michelle Monaghan) are being psychologically manipulated by an
imperious woman who orders them around over whatever phone happens to
be handy, giving them seemingly impossible tasks requiring split-second
timing for no obvious purpose. I seldom appreciate the cinematic
technique of frenzied, blurred, jumbled cuts of hard-to-follow
high-speed action, but here they're used to good effect as the
protagonists are rushed from one crisis to another way too fast to
figure out what's going on. Their confusion and panic becomes yours.
All they know is that they must obey or die.

Billy Bob Thornton and Rosario Dawson are investigators who start out
suspecting our heroes of terrorism but gradually figure out that
everyone's being jerked around by the mysterious Aria. Many crashes and
narrow escapes. No comic relief. No comic bookness. No time for
romance. Dead serious, with dirt under its nails.

Welcome to Surveillance World. I'd like to say it's set in the near
future, but it may well be here already.
