
Kudos to the casting agents for this one -- it's fun and lively and
moves along steadily to the predictable happy ending, but along the way
the dialogue is snappy, witty, and oddly believable. Why so? Hard to
believe, but it was the great chemistry of the two bromantic leads!
They play off each other perfectly, and because they're sharply versed
with each other, it's instantly believable that they're also
sharply-witted with others. It's rare to have the sex-hungry jock teens
be intelligent too (smart jocks? Who'd buy that?), yet it works! I
bought it, I laughed (a lot!) and I never reached a point where I
thought the lead characters had stepped to a point of groan-ness. So
kudos to the casting, and the lead actors themselves -- should the
chance happen again, I'd gladly see another comedy with these two --
they make a good 'bro' pair.
<|_=00=_|>
Fired Up looked like a stinker based on its premise "2 guys 300 girls"
- but it is much wittier and fresher than expected.

It's all pretty silly and juvenile but at least it does so with a great
sense of fun and doesn't take it self seriously.

Lots of innuendo, sex banter, but nothing too serious ,and it really is
pretty funny stuff.

A good cast who can carry this off with panache and a definite sense of
sporting fun - it is part pastiche of sporting movies - all help the
time whiz by.

All in all if you want a fun movie for a pizza night and its a mixed
group this actually works well. Not 100% a guys movie at all.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting a teen movie and was in fact very pleased to see very
good acting, good directing, good filming and excellent lines ! If you
like teen movies with 12 years old kind of jokes always link to pubes
and excrement, do not watch Fired Up ! The acting is really good here
and the lines are just so good, I found myself and my flatmates reusing
them..

I actually watched this movie a second time and spotted things I did
not even notice during the first viewing ! I mean the details and the
number of characters with their very specific personality amazed me.
This movie is rich and you will definitely think that it only lasted 30
minutes.

I read many comments comparing this movie to others but, I would say
that in terms of "how good the lines are", I would compare it to
Wedding Crasher, plus the main actors are really coordinated and it
adds to the credibility of the movie.

It will definitely cheer you up and is the perfect movie to relax. Even
the soundtrack is good and various.
<|_=00=_|>
I reluctantly went to a private screening of this the other day, and
found myself laughing quite a bit. Although the premise is as lame as
it gets, it's the characters that save this one. They poke at high
school stereotypes most of the time, which I found pretty dull, but
there are many moments where the lines are executed hilariously making
it entertaining for the most part. If you've seen Eric Christian Olsen
from other movies and enjoyed his faces and humor, you would find this
one amusing as well. The acting is definitely not the best I've ever
seen, seems way too forced at times, and the situations can get kind of
ridiculous, but like I said- for me, it wasn't how the movie set up the
humor, but the animated expressions and characterizations throughout
that made me sit through and still enjoy this one. Still worth watching
at least once, in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
first off, this is no monty python comedy. this is your standard modern
comedy with a sub par storyline putting two people in an uncomfortable
position and seeing the hilarity that ensues. this is not a thinking
man's comedy. this is a "watch if you wanna quote a movie for years to
come with your friends" comedy. i was skeptical at first because from
the trailer, the movie just looks stupid. but a friend of mine said he
went and saw it, expecting to sleep through it, and loved it. so i
watched it, and i agree. the one liners are great, eric Christian olsen
is hilarious as his usual lovable stoner character, and will gluck (who
did the short lived series "the loop," also hilarious) does a great job
at directing this comedy. only reason it's not a ten is because it's
pretty easily predictable, but hilarious nonetheless. if you're a fan
of stupid humor, or the series will gluck's "the loop" you'll love
this.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie did not intrigue me at all when it was first announced and I
waited until it came out on DVD until I saw it. But overall it was an
enjoyable funny teen comedy with hilarious moments. Fired Up is
basically your typical teen movie with high school jocks obsessed with
hooking up with hot high school girls. Ignoring the clich√© plot, the
two leads of the movie in Nick D'Agosto and Eric Christian Olsen are a
great pair. There are definitely some lines in the film that you will
have quoting after watching and hot teenage girls in cheer leading
uniforms can never be a bad thing. Sarah Roemer is absolutely stunning
and not a bad actor to boot. Go check this low budget comedy out for
the laughs
<|_=00=_|>
In general, the juvenile comedy genre disappointed me very much in
recent years, due to the crowd of unbearable pieces of crap
straight-to-DVD (such as, for example, Cougar Club and Picture This),
which almost extinguished my taste for this underrated genre.So,
without being a great film, I liked Fired Up, because it does not fall
on the easy scatological humor; and even though it relies on the old
formula of "louts looking for sex", it uses a context and a development
which are enough different in order to separate it from many cheap
clones of American Pie which try to occupy the niche created by gems
such as Clueless, Weird Science and Can't Hardly Wait.

In Fired Up, the technical aspects are correct, but they do not have
too much creativity; the performances are barely functional; and
director Will Gluck drives the movie with a good rhythm, but he does
not show too much vision (a few interesting transitions are not enough
to bring a visual identity to the movie).Fortunately, the screenplay
from the movie comes to the rescue by creating entertaining situations
which on some way conciliate the message of equality and tolerance the
movie proposes.Finally, the characters are interesting and their
dialogs are well written.

In summary, Fired Up may not be a highly memorable experience, but it
kept me entertained and it made me laugh, and I think it deserves a
recommendation because of that.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film with my two friends best friends, and we all LOVED this
film! I was expecting it to be just crude 'opposite-of-funny' humor the
whole way through, but I nearly laughed at every single part of the
film! The plot is hilarious and genius, and its one of those films
where there's always a part that makes a person laugh!

The characters are also a great addition to giving this film a good
grade. 

There's the jocks, gay guys, lesbians, cheaters, and guys who have to
wear mascot costumes the entire time!

I loved this movie, so I give it a 9.3/10!
<|_=00=_|>
I was pretty skeptical about this movie, the previews when it was in
theaters seemed repetitive so I didn't have much expectation for it and
was actually surprised about how much I ended up enjoying it. I saw it
with my boyfriend who was sure this was going to be more of a chick
flick but he was laughing more than I was so it might be slightly more
entertaining for guys.

The movie is about two high school jocks who decide they want to skip
football camp in favor of a cheerleading camp. The idea started off as
a joke, which was a relief because it would not have been as realistic
and therefore not as entertaining. The movie, as it states, is in fact
not a cheerleading movie for the most part. They do have some pretty
good cheerleading routines at the end. It had some goofy moments that
could have been toned down and would have been funnier. As someone
stated before there were a lot of great one-liners that you didn't
expect to be that funny. The changes in the 2 main characters are very
believable, which seems like it would be hard to pull off in that
situation, so that was refreshing. The music was very tastefully done
and it was very funny to see how the guys viewed the world.

The actors playing the two guys are actually pretty good, had great
facial expressions and funny reactions, they had great on-screen
chemistry as best friends and went very well together. Their
cheerleading teammates as a group were funny as well, though one of
them seemed a little too out of place. The girl who plays the sister of
one of the guys is extremely annoying and totally wrong for the part,
her face never stopped scrunching up and her acting was pretty bad. The
rival team is a bit extreme and looked like they were trying too hard
to play the villains and their leader got way too much attention with
few lines just because she is very hot. Other than that and a few
unnecessary tidbits in the movie I had a good time watching it and
recommend it to anyone with a light sense of humor.
<|_=00=_|>
You take the cheerleading clips from Bring It On and the typical "let's
get laid" plot from American Pie, you get Fired Up.

It starts off the same as a typical raunchy comedy about two jocks just
trying to get laid as much as they can. When Nick (Eric Christian
Olsen) and Shawn (Nicholas D'Agosto) decide to go to cheer camp instead
of football camp, they find themselves with three hundred horny girls
and their entire world turned-upside-down.

Shawn falls for Carly (Sarah Roemer; recognized from Disturbia) and
Nick falls for Diora (Molly Sims), who is married to the leader of the
camp. At the halfway point of the movie, the film turns over a new
leaf, as well as Nick and Shawn, and becomes something more than your
average teen comedy about sex and stupid jokes.

I laughed quite a bit more than I expected to when I saw the trailer
for the movie. Bits shown in the trailer do not do the comedy of the
film justice. It is so much more than just a comedy, as well, it's a
warm tale that proves anyone can do anything if they just believe in
themselves.

It's inspiring, laughable, fun and romantic all-in-one. Aside from some
profanities and small nudity, it's for all audiences, I think.
