
I'm a big fan of Dylan Dog, by the way, that is comic book, and the
writer or writers of this movie haven't read a single page of it.

The story is not even close to this and the characters are all wrong
presented. One of the most important character is missing, Dylan's
sidekick Groucho Marx, who gives whole new dimension to the comic and
is one of the reasons why is this comic so great.

This could be fun for the people who never read Dylan Dog but for us
fans, this is desecration of a great comic. I'd rather recommend
"Dellamorte Dellamore"(Cemetery Man) with Rupert Everett which was
written by Tiziano Sclavi, the author of Dylan Dog.

For fans who like their comics with good stories and not with just
"smash-bash", and who like supernatural stuff, i recommend you not to
waste time with this move but to try to find comic Dylan Dog, and like
me, to wait for someone to make a really good movie about Dylan Dog.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been waiting for this movie for many years and I've followed every
news about the production since 2007. I'm not a very obstinate fan of
"Dylan Dog" but I like it. In Italy "Dylan Dog" is a sort of religion
because in the late 80's early 90's every teenager have read at least
one episode of the comic book series. Now, this movie is slaughtered by
Italian critics and fan because of his "infidelity" against the comics:
in the movie there is no Groucho (DYD assistant), no inspector Bloch,
no London and that is enough to cause the terrible reaction of all
Italian fans. Obviously the greatest part of DYD fans decided to
suppress this movie months before it's coming in cinemas. I've seen
"Dylan Dog: Dead of Night" and I must say that it's a very funny movie,
with a good balance of horror/comedy/action parts. Brandon Routh is
able to play the part of "Nightmare's Investigator" and his character
is more faithful than what is said. For reasons of money it was
impossible to set the movie in London but the setting of New Orleans is
the best alternative option that director Kevin Munroe could do. For
the same reason there isn't Groucho, DYD assistant, but the character
of Marcus replaces him with no regrets. I think it's a miracle that an
American production company decided to make a film about an Italian
comic and I'm very glad for this decision and for the result because
I've seen in this project two very precious qualities, very important
to make a good adaptation: passion and respect. I'm waiting for a
sequel and I recommend to everyone to see this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Let me first say that 90% of the people who will come to this page
should ignore most of the bad reviews for this film. After looking
through them, they seem to all have one thing in common - anger that
this doesn't seem like a faithful adaptation.

I'm willing to bet that most of the US audience for this film has never
read the Dylan Dog comics, and, like me, had never heard of Dylan Dog
before hearing the title of this movie.

Now, putting aside the negativity that comes from fans of the source
material, I think most fans of the genre will like this movie. It is
very in the vein of things like Joss Whedons Buffy & Angel as well as
sharing some similarities to things like Constantine and the Dresden
Files book series. Let's be honest, this is urban fantasy. Most people
know if they enjoy the genre or not.

The film does a decent job of keeping a film noir tone, and using noir
tropes to it's advantage. Routh is good as the title character, doing a
nice job of trying to be the tired detective without being a weary
stereotype. Sam Huntington is great as Marcus, who I think ends up
stealing the movie because he really has the lions share of memorable
moments.

Yes, chances are you'll figure out the who done it before the movie
reveals it, and you'll figure out impending double crosses from the
moment characters are introduced. That's the danger of being a genre
film, but it doesn't detract from the fact that the movie is really
fun, and very funny in quite a few places.

If you like things like Buffy, Constantine or Harry Dresden, give this
movie a chance cause I think you will probably end up liking it.
<|_=00=_|>
The present rating the move has (5.1) while absolutely understandable,
is completely undeserved. I have never ever read a Dylan Dog comic. In
fact, I did not even know it was a comic series till a search query
told me so.

I watched the movie without any expectations and it was enjoyable. Like
most movies of this genre, it was predictable in most places, but that
does not take anything away from the movie.

It was a nice blend of comedy and horror. In fact, it is more of comedy
and very little horror. 

For an easy evening watch (like what I needed) this movie is perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is bad as an American action/comedy/horror flick and
downright offensive as a DylanDog transposition.

None of the characters are there, including Dylan, the humor is not
there, the sweet sadness that pervades the comic is gone, the story is
gone. Instead we have a badass, wisecracking dude punching demons or
zombies or whatever.

Like someone else already suggested, watch "Cemetery man" aka
"Dellamorte Dellamore" instead. it's weird, not for everyone, but it's
the closest thing to a DylanDog movie out there.

Either read the comics first or don't come back with a sequel
<|_=00=_|>
Poor Brandon Routh. After snagging the iconic role as the Man of Steel,
it's a little bit unfortunate that Bryan Singer's Superman Returns fell
short of the studio's expectations, and he no longer plays a part in
any future installments, starting with Zack Snyder's reboot. No matter,
after all with that build and chiselled good looks, one can waltz into
another superhero franchise, isn't it?

Unfortunately, Dylan Dog is an Americanized version of the Italian
horror graphic novel character, and as far as adaptations of comics
from another culture goes, this one hits the mark in expectations,
where the source material got extremely dumbed down, its unique selling
points dissolved into mediocrity and bastardized. Save for the
trademarked coat and red shirt, director Kevin Munroe's vision of this
character became somewhat of a generic monster hunter type of film,
though a plus point would be its treatment and narrative style in full
detective noir, with Routh's Dylan Dog being reluctantly pulled from
retirement by his client Elizabeth (Anita Briem) to investigate the
death of her father, as well as that of his assistant Marcus (Sam
Huntington).

This investigative trip of course introduces the audience unfamiliar
with the Dylan Dog mythos that the undead, from vampires to werewolves
to zombies, all have hidden human identities and walk the Earth quite
undetected, with a truce in place to keep the peace and Dylan being the
only trusted human for the monsters to go to when someone crosses the
line or breaks the peace. There's a little backstory here on Dylan's
origins and the reasons behind his forced retirement, but nothing truly
to wow or build upon any depth to the character, which is potential
that's wasted in giving Dylan more meat in background, becoming instead
just another human detective on his rounds.

The thrill factor of course is the make up and effects in having the
monsters look their nasty part, although they aren't something that
hasn't been seen before on screen. Action sequences are ho-hum, with
the nagging feeling that the story by Thomas Dean Donnelly and Joshua
Oppenheimer can't quite decide how to empower Dylan, making him become
as powerful as Routh's previous comic book outing in at least the
indestructibility factor, while equipped with some funky weapons that
we should see more of. And the trailer while pretty tacky, actually
summed up the entire plot, having reveal too much and letting out that
the filmmakers aren't quite confident with their end product, and the
marketers a little bit clueless on how to sell this film, hence its
verbosity.

While Brandon Routh has a limited acting range, his physique actually
suited him fine here and basically that was all that mattered, since
you aren't going to remember much about his rather bland performance.
Perhaps it's also because Sam Huntington, his co-star from Superman
Returns as well as he played Jimmy Olsen then, scored much of the flak
in this film being the very whiny assistant, whose wisecracks and
constant shouting get onto your nerves, and you wonder when his
character could shut up if at all for five minutes. The Marcus
character doesn't exist in the books simply because of a potential
copyright tussle if what was deemed as a Grucho Marx lookalike got
interpreted, but this modern replacement was as unfunny as he was
unnecessary in a lot of ways.

Don't expect this monster squad outing to be too cerebral. It's filled
with corny one liners involving various body parts, and in essence is a
poor man's cousin to Men in Black, replacing aliens in our midst with
that of monsters roaming around. If only it had stuck more faithfully
to its source, then it could have been something quite unique.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so the movie isn't set in London. So there is no Inspector Bloch,
Dr. Xabaras, or Groucho Marx. So the zombies are more Shaun of the Dead
than Dawn of the Dead. It's still a good movie.

Dylan Dog: Dead of Night stars Brandon Routh (Superman Returns, Scott
Pilgrim vs. the World) as the eponymous "nightmare investigator", with
Sam Huntington (Being Human) as his undead sidekick, Marcus. When the
movie begins, Dylan has retired from keeping tabs on the paranormal
beings that walk among us (and they walk all among us), and has settled
into a more conventional private detective gig. One day, though, a
potential client named Elizabeth (Anita Briem, Journey to the Center of
the Earth) tries to hire Dylan to solve the death of her father. He
refuses, until he returns to his office that night to discover Marcus
has also been killed. The two slayings are just the beginning, as
Dylan, his now zombified assistant, and Elizabeth crisscross New
Orleans in search of the monsters responsible.

Now, readers of the Italian comic books on which the film is based have
blasted the movie for its "unfaithfulness" to the original works by
Tiziano Sclavi. While it would have been nice to see Brandon Routh
playing the clarinet once or twice, the realities of movie-making must
intrude at some point. A low budget, for example, means not being able
to film in London, where the comics are set. The American city of New
Orleans probably comes closest in old school creepiness, though
(apologies to the people of New Orleans; and of London, I guess). The
same goes for Groucho Marx, the black-and-white era comedian on whom
the comics' Dylan's assistant is based and whose likeness is very
expensive to use in the States. While they show pictures of people in
Groucho glasses and posters for Marx Brothers movies, the cost for
securing the rights to have an imitator was likely quite high. Even the
American adaptation of the comics had to "shave" Groucho's mustache and
change his name to Felix for similar reasons. Sam Huntington more than
fills the role of "comedy sidekick", though, as he struggles to adjust
to the fact that he's dead; and he and Routh have excellent chemistry
due to their time working together on Superman Returns.

Anita Briem's character seems like a bit of a misfire at times, but she
certainly follows the path of most female characters in the comics.
Often, Dylan Dog finds himself taking the case of an attractive young
woman who has lost a loved one (or several) and needs his help coming
to grips with the supernatural world into which she's been thrust. And
while the supernatural world of the movie differs noticeably from that
of the comics, the atmosphere it presents is almost instantly
recognizable. The walk they take through the streets at night as Dylan
tries to open her eyes to the presence of the undead as they literally
pass in front of her eyes would not have seemed out of place on
Sclavi's pages, I feel. Sure, the monsters themselves are different,
but again, you've gotta give American moviegoers a bone every now and
then, show them something they'll recognize, as well.

And then there's Dylan himself. Brandon Routh is a fine actor; I don't
think anyone can deny that. He works very well with what he's given,
and in this case, he did an excellent job as Dylan Dog. The movie
character shared much in common with the comics character: mistrust of
technology (the comics Dylan refuses to use a cell phone, the movie
Dylan still uses cameras with film in them); a deep, brooding
disinterest in the world at large; drives the same VW Bug, even though
the colors have been inverted; and, though some may disagree, he even
looks a lot like the Dylan from the comics. Dylan is an old school
private investigator, whether he's investigating the living, the dead,
or the undead. In the movies, though, he's given an additional role:
keeping the creatures of the supernatural world from getting out of
line. A pact was formed, presumably to protect the "monsters" from
being wiped out entirely by humanity, and as part of that pact, a human
was chosen to sort of police the undead; to keep them in check, so to
speak. In our day, that's Dylan; or, at least it was until he
"retired".

That last part is probably the biggest difference between the comic
books and the movie. It turns the character from a sort of Philip
Marlowe of the undead world into another version of Keanu Reeve's John
Constantine, another movie character who wasn't that closely based on
his graphic novel counterpart; and it is probably the part of the movie
about which fans of the Dylan Dog comics will be the least forgiving.
I'm enough of a purist myself to agree that the movie should have done
more to adhere to the source material. That being said, I liked the
movie a lot. I think they did a fine job with not that much in the way
of resources, and they created a very believable "underground" world
that could very well coexist with our own. Brandon Routh has always
been a favorite actor of mine, and even if this is the latest in a
string of underrated movies in which he starred, he and Sam Huntington
did a great job in it.
<|_=00=_|>
Who doesn't know, Dylan Dog is one of "Bonelli's" characters (Italian
"comic-factory") and, like many others "in-house" characters (Martin
Mystere, Nathan Never,...), he is a product of...believe it or
not...movies! Any classic and really known horror movie is in Dylan Dog
comics - Living Dead (saga), Shining, Terminator, vampires,
werewolves,... So, how to make a movie from a comic that is made from a
movie(s)? Well, I bet it is possible but .... Did any of guys who were
working on this movie actually read any comic of Dylan Dog?! He is
detective for supernatural, an English from London, his partner is
Groucho, all comics are made in really "horror-mood" so why... a
comedy?!? This movie is lousy and completely....wrong! For sure, not
for fans of Dylan Dog :( Hope one day somebody will make "a real" Dylan
Dog movie!
<|_=00=_|>
How can a movie that has zombies, werewolves, vampires, and a giant
demonic creature named Belial be so freakin' boring?!?! Brandon Routh
is as dull as the movie, portraying handsome human hero, Dylan, chosen
by the monsters to service their need to keep the peace (yes, a human
as peace maker for all the monsters, I laughed a lot at this idea)
between True Bloods (the vampires) and Gabriel's family (the
werewolves), who operate a meat packing plant (yes, you read that
correctly). The zombies are not allowed to feast on the living, having
to follow the same code of non-violence toward humans as the vampires
and werewolves. Humans are called "breathers" by Vargas (Taye Diggs,
who seems to lack any type of charisma for a stud vampire), who wants
to get his undead hands on a crucifix with the blood of Belial, known
as the "Heart of Belial". The crucifix is thrust into a host body and
the one who uses the heart as a weapon is master of the beast that will
be given birth by the blood of Belial.

Going through the formalities. Elizabeth (Anita Briem) calls on Dylan
to find her father's killer, which turns out to be Gabriel's (Peter
Stormare) daughter. A vampire who stole the heart from Elizabeth's
father has hidden it and so it is desired by both the True Bloods and
Gabriel's brood (including his son played by TNA Impact Wrestling's
Kurt Angle). Dylan will try to secure the heart before it winds up in
the wrong hands. Dylan's best friend, Marcus (Sam Huntington) is
attacked by a giant zombie controlled by someone (or something),
turning the young man into a zombie himself. Marcus will accompany
Dylan as they search for the heart (Marcus and his condition are used
as comedy relief; perhaps Marcus is the sole entertainment value this
dead horror comedy has going for it). Liz may be more than she appears,
adding a twist to the proceedings. Dylan had "retired" from his gig as
human peacekeeper of the monsters, due to the murder of his beloved
Cassandra, having slaughtered a group of elder vampires, in turn,
placing Vargas in a position of power. Who do you really think was
responsible for Cassandra's tragic demise? Yeah, it's that obviousto
everyone but the supposed know-it-all investigator.

I could go on and on, but the film isn't worth the extra time. Set in
New Orleans, there's no reason this shouldn't be more energetic and
fun. It just isn't. A dire lack of juicy bloodshed or visceral thrills
only worsens a film loaded with monsters that normally leave plenty of
gore in their wake. And when your star is as leaden as Routh, there's
really no hope in that regard, either. Just a shame "Dylan Dog: Dead of
Night" has such little to offer when the potential for an enjoyable
experience is ripe for the pickings. The plot stays busy but doesn't
really offer any original ideas that warrant the kind of enthusiasm a
monster mash should entail. The story also includes a religious sect of
monster hunters, one unveiled and equipped with martial arts and
swordfighting skills, but even her fight scenes with Diggs falls flat
due to poor editing during the action. Just a flat out misfire. There
is a great scene has Dylan going to a "body shop" to get Marcus a new
arm (a "loaner"), but it's one too few.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe  most likely, even  I'm just a fatigue and endlessly grumbling
horror fanatic, but personally I'm so sick and tired of allegedly cool
& overly energetic comic book adaptations that put all sort of
traditional horror themes together through a modern CGI-blender. The
outcome of such a mix is hardly ever entertaining or originative, but
more like boisterous, pretentious and derivative. For a very short
while, I was actually very enthusiast to see "Dylan Dog", as I read
that it was based on the work of the Italian comic book artist Tiziano
Sclavi. This also just happens to be the inventor of "Dellamorte
Dellamore"; one of the top five greatest zombie movies ever made and
still one of the most shamefully underrated horror movies in the
history of cinema. But then I realized again that comic book
adaptations hardly ever make good films, and in most cases they barely
reflect even a glimpse of the coolness of the original comic book.
Sclavi's eccentric universe offers a whole lot of potential and
terrific gimmicks, like first and foremost the New Orleans setting and
the rather peculiar story aspect of monsters harmoniously existing
together, and director Kevin Munroe ("TMNT") also tries hard to make
his film accessible to all kinds of cinematic audiences, but the whole
thing is just too damn derivative and reminiscent to other (also
inferior) franchises like "Underworld", "Constantine", "Van Helsing",
"Watchmen" and who knows what else. Brandon Routh, the new but
unsuccessful Superman, depicts a different type of heroic character
this time, as he's a supernatural detective and the human guardian of
the peace-pact between the New Orleans' opposite monster clans. He's
actually retired, as there haven't been any incidents for a while now,
but the pact is rudely broken when a rich antique dealer is savagely
killed by a lycanthrope of patriarch Gabriel's clan. The murder
generates a bloody war with at stake an ancient religious relic holding
the power to awaken an invincible demon named Belial. Along the
process, Dylan's loyal assistant and comic relief character Marcus
reluctantly transforms into a zombie and loses his limbs, and our
private eye falls in love with the victim's daughter who clearly has a
hidden agenda since the start. It's truly incomprehensible how a movie
featuring so many versatile horror themes and monsters eventually
results in such a dull and painfully clichéd wholesome. "Dylan Dog"
doesn't feature a single highlight or memorable sequence and, on top of
it all, director Munroe often reverts to rookie mistakes like the
redundant narration and an overuse of comedy interludes at the expense
of story coherence and/or atmosphere. The special and make-up effects,
albeit plentiful, are too obviously computer engineered and hugely
disrespectful towards admirers of old-fashioned horror lovers. I
watched this film at the Brussels' Festival of Fantastic Films, during
a midnight screening and in a theater chock-full of outrageous and
hyperactive genre fanatics. The crowd's reactions were lukewarm and
harsh. I guess that says enough about a film whose desperate aim is to
be a crowd-pleaser
