
Be informed! The Young Messiah's high production quality probably makes
its content more disturbing, because many people will see it and form a
concept of Jesus from it. Like The Da Vinci Code, the filmbased on a
novel by Anne Rice (Interview With the Vampire)is loosely based on
Gnostic texts widely deemed heretical. (In those texts, the boy Jesus
strikes a playmate dead and then resurrects him, makes clay birds
alive, etc.) The story's main premise is that young Jesus has no clue
he's the Son of God. As in the Harry Potter saga, the young hero
gradually discovers his supernatural powers and struggles to control
them and to discover his destiny. Yet it's being billed as a
"Christian-themed" Easter film and even being supported by some big
ministry groups. Mary and Joseph try to protect Jesus from the backlash
from his accidental miracles. In a totally fictional suspense subplot,
Herod discovers Jesus' name, age, home, and family and sends a Roman
soldier to track and kill him. Don't be bamboozledread the Bible for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
I think to make a movie about a non fictional character without any
information or facts of the actual story, is a mistake. Especially this
kind of story. There were things done in the beginning of this movie
that were just plain wrong, and clearly wrong according to the biblical
writings. He didn't do ANY miracles until the age of 30 the bible
clearly states and i'll leave it at that. I wish people would stop
trying to make Jesus someone other than He really was. This movie felt
like it stole a little from 'Risen' which was a very good movie,
surprisingly. Too much free license with this movie left me cringing
many times at the things that were shown. The Devil, the ignorance of
Jesus, Mary being worry full and Joseph being the strong minded one,
quoting from the King James version of the bible which wasn't even made
yet... Little stuff like that bugs me. If this wasn't a movie about
Jesus, i could see it being a decent movie. But, it was. And it falls
flat for me because they tried too hard to make it fit into what we
would want it to look like if we could really see Him at such a young
age. "Risen" had a great concept because it could have actually
happened, but the way this move was written, it could not have happened
the way it was portrayed. it is what it is i guess.
<|_=00=_|>
Take a breathtaking journey into a year in the life of "The Young
Messiah". What was Jesus like as a kid? How do you explain what He went
through to become who He is and was? Miracles are in this movie - A
question-asking young boy who truly didn't know the power He would
later use to save the souls of the Earth. Jesus is played by a
beautiful young boy who is very good in his role. With his parents
(Mary and Joseph), they flee the town they are in. On their journey,
young Jesus begins to learn and do things He doesn't quite understand
at first - Jesus as a child is so amazing because even with my being a
Christian, it didn't make me look at Jesus any different than I do now
(with respect and love) - Forgiveness was yet to be known - but Jesus
was more than a forgiver, even as a child - Watch what happens and go
see the movie - It's worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of all the reviews I have written thus far, this one may arguably
be the toughest. Not because Young Messiah is a particularly good
movie; it's not. I struggle because while it might be easy to lampoon a
movie for being amateurish, inept, casually racist, remarkably
insincere, thematically dubious and egregiously pandering; this movie's
greatest sin however is it's a bore. Clocking in at a sluggish one hour
and fifty one minutes, I constantly was asking myself if this film
might have been improved if they replaced all the supporting characters
with mannequins. Perhaps if Graham Chapman's ghost popped up and sung
"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life" there'd be signs of actual,
you know, life.

The film starts with the young Jesus (Greaves-Neal) living in
Alexandria with his parents Joseph (Walsh), Mary (Lazzaro) and their
extended family. After drawn-out moments of pensive staring and one
half-hearted occasion of necromancy, the family decides to trek back to
Judiah since the infamous King Herod is dead. Then the family walks,
and walks, and walks until finally they don't. They stop in Nazareth,
then Jerusalem slowly realizing that their movements are being
monitored by Severus (Bean), a Roman centurion tasked with finding a
certain seven-year-old with a knack for miracles.

The main source of attempted tension comes from Severus and Herod Jr.
(Bailey) trying to find the mythic child of Bethlehem. The film takes
great pains in making Herod as traditionally evil as possible complete
with effeminate, overly dramatic mannerisms, a testy anger and an
almost stunning lack of awareness. Sean Bean fairs a little better as
Severus by simply phoning it in as the bad guy with a complicated past.
Yet even his jaded, near expressionless presence can't make the film
exciting. The moments of "chase" are largely missed connections with
supporting characters pointing north and saying "he went that a- way."
Meanwhile Severus prattles on about Roman steel. We all know the story
of Jesus, or at least we know enough to assume he's not captured by
Romans at seven-years-old so why is this dull chase the centerpiece of
this dribble? At no point in time will a reasonable viewer think Jesus
is in any real harm so why the cloak and daggers BS?

The secondary source of tension comes from Joseph's unwillingness to
speak to Jesus about his origins because of...reasons. What those
reasons are, we're never made privy to. Half-realized conversations
happen with such regularity that one would be hard-pressed to find
anyone's reasons for doing anything in this movie. Jesus on the other
hand seems to take things in stride, performing miracles, showing off
in front of rabbis and otherwise being the embodiment of Christ in
miniature form. That's great and all, but he's not exactly an
interesting character. Instead he's every "the one," "the special," the
superhero Metropolis needs," we've seen thousands of times before. I
understand Jesus's tale is the granddaddy of all heroes journeys but
this film approaches the source material with such a pitiful lack of
imagination that Jesus doesn't feel like a messiah but an X-Man.

With a subject so revered by countless believers, I'm surprised just
how painfully conventional Young Messiah is. The film is adapted from
"Christ the Lord: Out of Egypt" written by Anne Rice who injects
religious iconography into all her books with such regularity, that I'm
surprised she's not a nun by now. Brought to moribund life by director
Cyrus Nowrasteh, the cinematography and editing is film-school, senior
thesis level atypical. There are some moments approaching the ethereal
in the vein of music video expressionism, but then we're brought right
back into the heavy- handed pandering that's become a hallmark of these
kinds of movies.

The best thing that can be said about Young Messiah is at least it
panders without fear-mongering or demonizing other groups. Movies like
God's Not Dead (2014) and Left Behind (2014) preach with such bluster,
that the only thing stopping them from being malignantly harmful is
their amateurishness. I long for the day when we expect more from these
kinds of movies other than them being benignly boring. It is possible,
if you're willing to sit through rarefied gems like The Tree of Life
(2011) or Au Hasard Balthazar (1966) or The Passion of Joan of Arc
(1928). Otherwise you may just have to get your spiritual fulfillment
watching your nephew's nativity play.
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many things wrong with this movie. I am fine that they
wanted to make a speculative movie about Jesus as a youth, but at least
use the facts we do know. Let's start with the fact that they have him
meet the Wise Men as a babe. He was close to 2 years old when they
arrive. Also Joseph and Mary had left prior to the children being
killed. Then the reason they leave Egypt since they are told it is
safe. Ummmm, this movie is all about it not being safe. Then they have
him going to the temple at age 7, he was 12. And why do they always
have Jesus not knowing who he is? I am pretty certain Joseph and Mary
told Christ who He was from the earliest days. And even if they didn't
He would know since He is the Son of God. Yes everyone knows the secret
that He is God except Him. I don't buy it. About the only thing they
got correct was I am sure Satan tried to tempt him. Serious Train
Wreck!
<|_=00=_|>
In the bonus segment of the DVD version of "The Young Messiah," the
screenwriter described how the goal of the script was "informed
conjecture" about the life of young Jesus bar Joseph. In turn, the
conjectural screenplay was based on the Anne Rice novel "Christ the
Lord: Out of Egypt." One of the strengths of the film is the choice of
shooting sites, especially the town of Matera in Italy, which stood for
Jerusalem. The roads, rivers, and mountain locales were also stunning.

But the heart of the film is the story of a year in the life of the
young Jesus bar Joseph. The two main strands of the narrative are: 1)
the action scenes in which the young messiah is pursued by the Roman
centurions, seeking to kill the boy at the behest of King Herod; and 2)
the drama of determining the precise moment when the kind parents will
reveal to the boy that he is son of God.

The actors are uniformly earnest in their roles. The child actor
playing Jesus is excellent, and the performers playing Mary and Joseph
are also very convincing. Jane Lapotaire turns in a good character
performance as Old Sarah. And Christian McKay as Cleopas, the uncle of
Jesus, is a scene-stealer in his robust and slightly cynical character.

If there is a criticism to be aired about the film, it would be in the
one-dimensional treatment of the story and the characters. There is a
highly melodramatic rendition of a creepy devil, lurking in the
background and taunting the boy Jesus at every turn. And the
over-the-top interpretation of King Herod was cloying. Even Joseph and
Mary were somewhat saccharine in their one-dimensional wholesomeness.
At one point, Mary is praying and asks forgiveness for her sins that
day. But there is nary a blemish on her spotless character evident in
the entire year encompassed by this motion picture.
<|_=00=_|>
first - a bizarre film. for the not inspired cast, for the large isles
of non sense, for the absence of precise purpose. it is not a Christian
film and not a religious one. only a strange embroidery of fragments
from the Gnostic Gospels, few good actors in uncomfortable roles and a
chaotic story. the dialogues, the acting, the generous message - all is
fake or wrong or almost blasphemy. result - a kind of surrogate. the
young Adam Greaves - Neal is far to be the perfect choice for a role
who represents only source of confusion. Sara Lazzaro must be a second
Olivia Hussley from the Jesus of Zeffireli. but her role remains a
sketch. Jonathan Bailey gives a barefooted Herod without any precise
purpose because his status is only as decoration. Sean Bean, the poor
Sean Bean... Jane Lapotaire does her the best try but the old Sarah is
impossible to be credible as result of confuse script. the Bible is
ignored and the Gnostic texts as used only as pretext. the result - a
film with interesting idea about nothing. or only an exercise of
blasphemy.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this movie. So beautiful and so sweet. It should be
getting straight 10's all across the board. I am a Traditional Catholic
and I was not "offended" like some of you pretend to be. This was a
sweet story that tried to give us an idea of what Jesus' life might
have been like as a child. The music was so wonderful. I loved this
film. So well done and the actors were perfect for the roles they
played. I recommend this to EVERYONE. Maybe you'll learn something
about humility. I could see this movie many times, just happens to be
Christmas time that I was able to see it and I couldn't have planned it
better. Please see this movie, it is so wonderful!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was fascinating. Too often, as Christians, we feel like it
is wrong to imagine what Jesus was like before the Bible and history
books mention him. Non-Christians sometimes equate Jesus conflict and
any discussion or mention of the name is discouraged. This movie did a
beautiful job of making such an interesting topic approachable. Jesus
was a baby, a kid, and a teenager, like all of us. It is good the ask
questions. While this movie takes creative license with details about
Jesus (because nobody was actually there- nobody knows,) it still
serves to provoke thought and imagination. This movie is interesting
and entertaining, whether you are a Cheistian or not. It is not a
documentary, and there are definitely things that were added and
omitted this is for entertainment, not to convince people of anything.
If you are looking for absolute historic, Biblical and ethnic accuracy,
then please explore this topic through other avenues. The setting is
breathtaking, and this is overall a very beautiful film.
<|_=00=_|>
It wasn't until seeing the credits that I found this is based on an
Anne Rice (Interview With The Vampire) novel of the same name. Had I
know that, I would not have seen it before reading the reviews.

Information is collected from sources that have no secular evidence in
antiquity, and much of the information is over dramatized by the
writer. Granted, the Bible does not disclose the Savior's life around
this period, but the referenced miracles are from the apocrypha
documents that cannot be dated to the time of Christ (some of them
being up to 300 years after the event).

If you are looking for reasonable fiction, this film gets a 5 of 10
vote. If you are looking for a faith-based or spiritual movie, as the
name suggests, look elsewhere.
