
Once again, another rating that baffles me here on IMDb, now granted, I
haven't read the novels that The Sisterhood is based upon, but I really
did enjoy the first movie, more than I thought I would. So I was
looking forward to The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2, curious
what the girls were up too in the story. The reason I like these movies
so much is because they're very real; except for the traveling all
around the world despite as if money was no issue, these being college
girls mind you. But the story provides teenage girls who look like your
average teenagers, their stories are very relatable if you are a girl,
and we have comedy, romance, and drama, a typical chick flick, but
thankfully these movies are enjoyable one's that don't push it. I felt
like these girls are just so much fun and like I could know them in
real life.

Tibby has moved to New York, studying film and works at a movie store,
but she has a bad pregnancy scare when her boyfriend's condom breaks.
Thankfully it's a false alarm, but she is scared of her heart being
broken once again. Lena goes to Greece for her Grandfather's funeral,
she sees Kostos, but he is now married and is having a baby, so she
takes an art class at home and starts dating the model that she is
currently drawing. Carmen goes to Vermont to be in a drama club,
expecting to work behind the scene, her leading man crush encourages
her to audition and she gets a lead role causing some jealousy around
the more experienced actors. Bridget goes to Turkey on an
archaeological dig and finds out more about herself and goes home, but
first she has to see the grandma who she thought didn't love her, it
turns out she learns more about herself and her mother. But these girls
have let their friendship go and must find a way to make the magic of
the pants work once again.

I would honestly recommend The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2, I
really did enjoy the story and acting, along with the characters. I
think The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2 is a notch below the
first film, but it still works. There are minor flaws here and there,
but it's very easy to get past, I don't understand the rating of 6.0
here on IMDb, this is an honest and genuine film that I think a lot of
people could enjoy. I think my favorite story this time was with Carmen
once again, she's the character I can relate to most and she's very
much the under dog of the story. But all the girls are a pleasure to
watch on screen, they make you laugh and just have a great time with
their journeys. This is a wonderful movie and I can't wait to see it
again.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see that movies in theaters as both my sisters asked me to
go. I wasn't thrilled but since I had nothing to do I went.

There was around 200 people in the theater...195 girls and 5 guys. I
would've thought more couples would be there but apparently, guys
really didn't want to see that movie so my first thought was : "Uh oh!
I'm in for a long evening!".

Well I wasn't! Of course, staring at 4 beautiful girls is hardly a
waste of my time but I found myself laughing many times and was
intrigued by the movie.

The story is simple. The same pair of jeans comes again as in the first
movie. All the 4 girls are again separated during the summer. Lena is
in Long Island in some sort of art class, Tibby is in New York for her
movie, Bridget is in Turkey doing archeology and Carmen is in Vermont
doing backstage work in a play.

Well I won't say anything but you know the sort of things that happen.
Well they happen. And it's good, it's your average teen movie, nothing
exceptionally genius but nothing bad either.

I heard lots of complaints about some loose ends but that's not really
true. Maybe people didn't listen enough or didn't quite understand what
wasn't said but overall, everything fell right into place.

So why go see an average teen movie you might ask? Well I ask myself
that question every day. I guess I like to be entertained and those 4
girls make that happen.

You probably shouldn't waste your money on going to see it in theaters
but you should definitely rent it when it's out on DVD.

So in resume, it's as good as the first one...and Tibby is hilarious!
<|_=00=_|>
The next chapter in the tale of the denim divas follows them to all
corners of the earth, but separately. Each of the girls leaves for the
summer to follow their own path, their own heart and where it takes
them is not always right along side each other. One goes to drama camp
to find out her place in the theater might not be behind the curtains
at all, while another goes to art school only to find drawing passion
and heart can't be done when the artist has closed hers off. One more
girl learns the past is only as far your last conversation with someone
you care about, while lastly another finds looking into the future is
more frightening when you imagine it alone. Each young woman travels
their own road and this story is how they find themselves and each
other once again along the way.

After reading all that it might feel like The Sisterhood of the
Traveling Pants 2 has stuffed way too much into those wildly decorated
jeans, but the movie shows itself to be a great example of intelligent
and accomplished editing. Each storyline is touched on, taken in and
then moved on from with impeccable timing, never overstaying its
welcome and never leaving the audience wondering what was going on with
the rest of the girls. Everyone is granted a wealth of screen time and
that passes on to the viewer a level of visual respect, so we can
decide for ourselves which person we want to route for (if not all of
them, which in my case, it wasn't, but I'll get to that later). Credit
is assuredly given to the director, Sanaa Hamri, for her work, but I
want to lend a special round of digital applause to the editor, Melissa
Kent, for really keeping a well balanced performance intact for
everyone involved.

About those performances, let's take a closer look at the set up and
how it differs from the first time these pants made their appearance on
the silver screen. We have four young up-and-coming actresses in Alexis
Bledel, Blake Lively, Amber Tamblyn and America Ferrera. When the first
movie came out Alexis was riding high on the back of Gilmore Girls
mania, while Amber had recently enjoyed critical acclaim in her
starring turn on Joan of Arcadia (although not the public rating
support that usually accompanies such high reviews). This time around,
Alexis and Amber have taken a back seat to the Emmy and Golden Globe
winning America Ferrera from the critic's wonder darling, Ugly Betty
and the hype/buzz machine powerhouse of Blake Lively and her adolescent
hormone extravaganza, Gossip Girl. Behind the scenes the dynamic may
have changed, but on screen you would never know how far things had
shifted. There is a palpable level of camaraderie between these four
young girls, but how far that lasts when the cameras are off is hard to
tell. Personally, the two current headliners, Blake and America, stole
the show with their respective performances, especially Blake, while
Alexis held her own and Amber fell a little flat. Part of Amber's
problem is she has the character with the least reason to support her.
For most of the movie she is grumpy, frumpy and bordering on goth.
While each of the other girls are stretching and reaching out, Amber's
character is retreating inward, causing a slight disconnect with the
rest of the pack. On the other side of the gender line, there are the
men in the picture. No teen chick flick is complete without the
heartthrob young men to make the girls swoon, but in most stories there
are also the jerks and brutish young punks who hurt or disappoint the
girls first, which sends them running to the male best friend who they
never looked at in that way before, but they see, and so on and so on.
In this story I felt a little break in that belief in the world it
created because every guy in the film was perfect. They were all total
gentlemen, caring, sensitive, bursting with charm, and to top it all
off most of them looked they had just walked out of the gym after a
24-hour work out bender (all except for Blake's dad, which can be
excused in this case). The only reason this stood out as a problem for
me was they had every guy throwing themselves at their feet, so their
only real problem was with themselves, and that makes for very few
hurdles to jump over which are not self-imposed.

In the end the movie is enjoyable and the people in the crowd I was a
part of all had their share of cheering moments. It's a chick flick in
its purest form, but that doesn't mean all the boyfriends and best
friends out there have to moan and groan when they get dragged to it.
The theater experience really doesn't bring anything special to it, so
you guys out there might even be safe until DVD release, but once that
comes, you better find yourself a comfy pillow on the couch because you
can be sure this will get heavy rotation.

p.s. My friend would be remiss if I didn't mention her issue with the
casting of the male model character in Alexis Bledel's story arc. Not a
bad actor at all, but she got the vibe he (or his character) wasn't
really into Alexis, or her character, or her genderÂ… Oh SNAP! And I
would be remiss not to mention that since this is a sequel with no
sub-title it will forever be known to me as The Sisterhood of the
Traveling Pants 2: Electic Boogaloo.
<|_=00=_|>
The girls are back after a brief break during which each is described
as being incredibly talented at their respective passions and whisked
off to ivy league colleges. After Carmen's helpful voice-over brings us
up to date with our favorite Bethesda natives, we begin each's summers
- Tibby is working on scripts in summer school, Lena is taking an art
class, Bridget is digging for artifacts in Turkey, and Carmen, after
realizing to her dismay that none of her friends will be there in the
summer, impulsively seizes an opportunity to work back stage at a
Shakespearean summer production.

I caught the midnight showing of Sisterhood mainly for the estrogen
rush, but I won't deny that a certain part of me was eagerly awaiting
the return of Carmen, Tibby, Bridget, and Lena. And as a devoted reader
of the series, I can certainly say that this movie, comprised of plot
elements of books 2,3, and 4 is completely different from their textual
counterparts. For example (and without giving too much away, I hope)
Bridget's archaeological expedition yields little more than emotional
realization - there is no mention of the hunky, married, professor in
book 4. 

Most of the choices only benefited the movie, and overall Sisterhood
brimmed with summery, feminine fun. Perhaps my favorite addition was
Carmen's plot line - though I admittedly skimmed Carmen's section in
the books, I think I would have remembered the theater program story
that, in this movie, is just, if not more, interesting then the other
girls.

So if you liked the first movie, you'll enjoy this one. If you didn't,
I'm not making any promises.
<|_=00=_|>
Carmen Lowell (America Ferrera) is working on the backstage of a play
in Yale. When the lead actress and friend Julia (Rachel Nichols)
invites her to travel to Vermont with her to work in a play with
professional cast, she decides to stay with her friends and her
pregnant mother. However she finds that Lena Kaligaris (Alexis Bledel)
will travel to a course of drawing. Bridget Vreeland (Blake Lively) is
in existential crisis missing her mother and decides to travel to an
archaeological dig in Turkey. Tibby Tomko-Rollins (Amber Tamblyn) is
working in a rental and still editing her documentary. Therefore,
Carmen accepts the invitation and travels to Vermont. She has a crush
on the lead actor Ian (Tom Wisdom), who convinces her to participate in
an audition, and is invited by the director Bill Kerr (Kyle MacLachlan)
to perform the lead female role. Later she finds the truth about the
friendship of Julia. The broken-hearted Lena finds that Kostas (Michael
Rady) has married and she dates the model of her class. Bridget finds
letters addressed to her from her grandmother that her father has
hidden and she decides to visit her grandma, disclosing a secret about
her mother. Tibby makes love with her boy-friend Brian McBrian
(Leonardo Nam) but they have problems with the condom and she gets
scared of a possible pregnancy. In the end, the girlfriends discover
that their friendship is real and more than a pair of jeans.

I have watched this sequel during a flight without watching "The
Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants" and I liked the story in spite of
not being familiarized with the characters. The story about friendship
and discoveries is a sort of teen version of "Sex and the City", with
four young women that belong to different ethnic groups and
backgrounds, but have also a solid friendship that help each other in
the bad moments and celebrate together the good ones. The four subplots
entwined by an apparently magic pair of jeans are good, but Carmen's
one is certainly the more engaging. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
In the first adaptation of Ann Brashares's famous novel series,
soap-opera clichÃ©s and predictable story lines were defeated by the
sheer charm of the characters and their relationships with one another.
And whereas that film dealt with the transition to womanhood and
celebrating feminine diversity, the sequel fits our young heroines into
contrived, "after-school" special story lines that end exactly the way
you'd expect them to. The first film is by no means a masterpiece, but
there was a genuine sense that these characters were real and thus we
could relate to their plights. 

There are some moments in the sequel that shine, most of them occurring
when the four titular characters are together, but so much time is
spent on filler plots and unnecessary contrivances that the film simply
gets old too quickly. Alexis Bledel and Blake Lively don't do much to
make their characters any more believable or human; they have no
personality and thus their individual story lines are rendered even
weaker. Amber Tamblyn and America Ferrera do the opposite, and bring
their characters to life, against the odds of the mediocre script.
There's also some impressive input from supporting performances, such
as the great Blythe Danner and the heartfelt Shohreh Aghdashloo. All in
all, a disappointment considering the first film, but still a somewhat
worthy escape with four friends who, in the end, above all things,
value one another more than anything else in the world.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. I am in love with Alexis Bledel's acting, and I
think all the Characters were cast WONDERFULLY.

~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*SPOILERS AHEAD~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*~_*

There was some disappointment for me as far as sticking to plot line. I
know they kind of crammed all the other books into one movie, but they
could have done a better job of mixing them.

For Example: When Bridget gets to Turkey, she never even has
interaction with Peter, who basically made up her ENTIRE PLOT for the
last book, and her trip to Turkey. Perhaps they thought a younger woman
having an affair with an older man was "too much" or "too hard to
handle" for a younger audience, but I felt it was important to the
plot, and therefore should have been added.

Carmen's story was a bit off as well, but nothing as drastic as Bee's.
(The Character who plays Ian was PERFECT) As far as Lena goes, it was
nearly spot on, but I felt there was something lacking with the
"breakup" with Leo. It was almost non-existent, and had I not read the
books, I would have been fairly confused with what happened to him.

All in all, though, it was a well made movie, I enjoyed it. I laughed,
I cried, and I fell in love.

On a personal note: I went into the first movie thinking "I'm going to
be like Tibby, "the rebel." and went into the second thinking "I'm
going to be like Bridget, "the lost for love" type, yet both times left
feeling more like Lena. Not really related to the movie, but says
something not only for Lena's character, but Alexis Bledel's acting as
well.

I WOULD recommend this movie to a friend, but not for young girls under
14-15. It deals with some deep emotions, and Pregnancy scares, so it's
not really for a "young" audience.

Overall, a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel this movie was really good. I remember when the first one came
out and I was like, so lame. I eventually came around and saw it but it
was okay. When I heard they were making a second one I was really
happy. I think this movie had a lot of variety. At one point you would
think it was going to end and then it started up again with drama. I
think all of the girls are amazing in this and I like that the movie
wasn't generic. I noticed there were some plot twists that could have
gone the usual way in that the characters win but it wasn't always like
this. I give the movie a nine compared to the eh, 7 I would give to the
first.
<|_=00=_|>
This Sisterhood just attempts too many plots and while it's
inter-woven, it becomes downright obnoxious to view.

What's with this pants to begin with? Many people out-grow theirs and
this is precisely what occurs in this film. One girl loses her mom to
suicide, another goes off on an archaeological expedition to basically
nowhere, a third finds romance, loses the guy who is lied to, only to
recapture him later and the Ugly Betty of television gets acting part
by accident in a summer drama session and makes the best of it.

The scenes depicting Greece are nice but this is not exactly Mamma
Mia!That film had zest and a breath of fresh air with one specific
story affecting the lives of others. 'Sisterhood" is just trying to
tell too much.
<|_=00=_|>
I found the first movie to be far more superior than the second. The
sisterhood is supposed to be a movie based on dialogue, but I felt as
though many of the characters were constantly getting into arguments
without having a coherent dialogue. They'll say a few words and all of
the sudden they wont be talking anymore or be broken up, without really
building up the feeling of anger. It was extremely unrealistic and the
characters were mostly hollow and bland. I don't think it was so much
the actors fault as it was whoever composed the movie script. I haven't
read the actual books but if they are anything as bland as the movie, I
don't ever want to.

What I found the most disturbing by far was when Tibby had her
pregnancy scare. When I went to the theater to watch this movie I saw
the 80% of the audience were young teen girls around 12 to 15. So here
you have Tibby scared half to death that Brian's condom broke. Hello!
They have such a thing as a Day After Pill. All Libby would have had to
do is go to the doctor ASAP, and she would have had a prescription for
the pill and her chances of pregnancy would have been reduced
significantly, without resorting to contemplating abortion. So here you
have a group of very young girls who would most likely go through a
chunk of their lives thinking that they have no choice in situations
like this. And then you wonder why the United States has so many teen
pregnancies compared to other so-called developed countries!
