
Fast and Furious, or 4 Fast 4 Furious if you're keeping count, is a
movie you can basically sum up in one sentence. Muscle guys, muscle
cars, hot chicks, and incredible action sequences. Not much has changed
in the four films other than who the muscle guys wind up being played
by but nonetheless, if you're going to the movies strictly to
continually watch these things, then not only will this series run
forever, but you should have no problem sitting through this fourth
flick. Of course the other thing to look at here is the resurrection of
Vin Diesel's action star persona, and considering he's been doing
movies like "Babylon AD" and "The Pacifier" for the past couple years,
you can basically say this is one of his better performances in a real
long time.

The plot is pretty thin but I'm sure for fans of the first movie it
will be nice to see the two leads back playing their roles. Diesel
reprises wanted felon Dom Toretto, who after escaping at the end of the
first movie seems to have started a new life in the Dominican Republic
knocking over trucks. What brings him back to Los Angeles is revenge
for the death of his girlfriend (Michelle Rodriguez) at the hands of
brutal drug dealers led by Braga. This brings him face to face with the
man who infiltrated his gang in the first flick, Brian O'Connor (Paul
Walker), now an FBI agent going after the same drug dealers. And
wouldn't you know that driving plays a big part in Braga's whole
smuggling operation so both Brian and Dom team up, amidst some trust
issues, to bring down the drug cartel.

Hopefully director Justin Lin ("Tokyo Drift") gets the credit he
deserves this time around. He's fantastic with these action sequences,
not only making them pulse-pounding thrill rides but also letting you
feel like you're in the car with these characters. The movie starts out
brilliantly with a propane truck hi-jacking that turns life or death
when things get out of control and the truck barrels down on the
hi-jackers, and then just continues to go full throttle, staging a race
on a crowded Los Angeles street and then chases in an underground
tunnel shaft. Once these characters get in their cars you won't be
bored for a moment.

Outside the car is a different matter though. Both actors do what they
can. Diesel is adrenaline personified. With his gravelly voice, bulging
biceps, and cool, playful way around a line of dialogue, he's a lot of
fun to watch. And while still pretty wooden, I admit that Walker has a
pretty-boy face and an athletic physicality that makes him a good hero.
This pairing worked well in the first movie, sort of like an amateur,
yet entertaining, version of the adrenaline-seeking- cop and criminal
formula a la "Point Break." Just after four movies it's all gotten
stale and it's easy to see that the cars are the real stars here. The
Dom-Brian conflict and Dom's vendetta against the cartel is mostly
overshadowed and there isn't much for either character to do when away
from their vehicles. Diesel and Walker try but they always seem to be a
couple wheels short of competing with the four-wheel drive.

"Fast and Furious" deserves credit for doing the key things well. If
your expecting much from anything other than the cars then it's a
disappointment, but thanks to Justin Lin this has all the makings of a
really thrilling action movie, making this fourth flick in the series a
little bit better than its predecessors and a lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read all previous comments and only see a couple of people that
actually make a comment that it is supposed to happen between 2 Fast 2
Furious and Tokyo Drift... I'm sure this had something to do with
Justin Lin directing Tokyo Drift as well as Fast & Furious. I'm glad
that he made it happen that way because I am sure there were many
people that saw Tokyo Drift and thought, "Where did this movie come
from?" It was so random to have it be a Fast and Furious movie when it
had nothing to do with either of the original 2 with the exception of
the again, random, cameo of Dom at the end of it. In the first couple
of scenes of Fast & Furious you see that Han is part of Dom's crew that
hi-jacks gas tankers in the Dominican Republic. When the heat is on Dom
once again, he tells Han it's time to go do his own thing. Han tells
him that he hears of some things going on in Tokyo. If you recall in
Tokyo drift, Han tells Sean that Tokyo is his "Mexico" he was running
to stay out of jail.

I really enjoyed this movie. The plot wasn't as detailed as the
previous but it followed along well with what you think might happen in
a Fast & Furious movie... Paul Walker plays Brian O'Conner again, he is
still working law enforcement, although this time he is big boy FBI.
Vin Deisel is back as Dominic Toretto. He and Brian are trying to get
in with a drug ring for different reasons, but team up to help each
other get what they are after.

The movie is full of everything you expect from the franchise: Nice
cars, great racing, hot women and hot guys (to suit everyone's taste)
This movie has great action sequences as well. I recommend this movie
to anyone that has followed the other 3... or at least the first 2. If
they make a 5th one I'll be first in line to see it too.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from the midnight screening of 'Fast & Furious' and I
have to admit the movie very much exceeded my fairly low expectations
for the film. While the original film was entertaining, it was never a
good movie by any means. Let's not even get started on the two that
followed. The fourth installment however, is another story. Most of the
original cast has come back and seeing them back in action together
really makes you realize the F&F franchise isn't the same without them.
The chemistry between the three leads (Diesel, Walker and Brewster) is
the strongest it's been yet, and I would dare to call several of the
scenes 'moving' as a result. Who would have ever expected that from
Fast & Furious.

The movie does an excellent job of keeping you on the edge of your
seat, there's no shortage of action and a story that keeps your
attention. The movie starts out in the DR with Vin Diesel pulling off a
fairly implausible heist of hijacking a fuel tanker with his new crew.
Minutes later, we learn of Letty's murder which in turn basically sets
the tone for the rest of the movie as Diesel sets off on an all out
rampage to even the score. Like the previous three, you certainly need
to suspend your disbelief for the duration of the movie, however I was
glad to see they didn't go overboard and kept the special effects and
CIG to what seemed like a happy minimum.

Anyone who's ever been a fan of the Fast and the Furious series will
absolutely need to go see this on the big screen. Even if you weren't
so hot for the originals, the movie is still worth a look. In my
opinion it's acting, story, plot, special effects are the best of the
series so far and almost makes it stand out as a respectable movie.
Better yet, they've left the door wide open for 'Fast & Furious 5'. To
be continued...
<|_=00=_|>
This was a good movie. They were able to bring back all the things that
made the first one great like Vin Diesel, Jordana Brewster, and Paul
Walker, and let go of the things that did not work so well. All the
things that you loved in the first one are here and a little more. Vin
Diesel does a great job from start to finish. In parts of the movie it
almost makes you want to leave your seat and cheer. For all you Paul
Walker haters out there he did a good job as well. He is like a backup
quarterback in the NFL you want him to manage the game don't try to do
to much just do what is takes to win. Walker is not the star of the
movie, but behind the star he manages his part well. He does a good job
of playing his part and not going beyond that and try to make a great
performance. Walker acts within his ability. I for one am not a Walker
hater so I never felt like he did a bad job, but I know there are a lot
of you out there and you will be happy with his performance in this
movie. Just the right blind of action and cars. For all the people that
loved Han from Tokyo Drift don't get really excited, his role is only
for about 3 minutes at the beginning of the movie. This is not a movie
that is going to win any Academy Awards, but it is a movie that will
keep you entertain for an hour and forty five minutes. Worth the movie
to pay to see this one in the theater. Which is saying a lot for the
way the economy is right now. It is the best one in the series.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this and to be honest I was hesitant in buying the $8
matin√©e ticket but wanted to see a movie and figured what the heck.
First of all the 1st film was good, IMO the sequel and then Tokyo Drift
were pretty bad but the 4th installment gave a ray of hope when I first
saw the trailer. I liked the fact that it had a large part of the
original cast.

I enjoyed this film and was surprised. They actually wrote a good story
and it flowed very well, the action and driving scene's were shot and
edited superbly, you did get the feeling that you were in the car at
times which adds to the intensity of the driving scenes. I also like
the fact that they incorporated American muscle cars instead of just
imports this way the movie will appeal to people of all tastes. Overall
I was pleasantly surprised of how good the film was. Also the final
scene of Phoenix's demise was different than the norm. Bottom line Go
see it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film, unlike the second and third installment, had a strong plot.
if you like the F&F Franchise and go into the theater with a positive
attitude, you will not be disappointed. unlike any other installment in
the franchise, there is a much bigger variety of cars as well. much
more of that good ol' American Muscle. and who can you think of that
looks more bada$$ than Vin Diesel behind the wheel of a Chevelle and a
Charger? and not to mention the babes! I mean thats what this series is
all about right?Cars, babes, and mischief.

overall, if you dig the franchise as much as i do, or even if u just
like cars and racing, this is the movie for you. it is much more action
packed than all of the other ones.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of these 107-minute testosterone movies guys crave every
once in awhile, some more than others. Being a somewhat-old guy, I
don't look as these as often anymore but every once in awhile it's fun
to kick back and just watch fast cars, loose women, wild action and
fairly-brainless film.

There isn't much of a plot but my guess is people who are fans of this
film series don't care. Just give us the above - muscle cars, macho
men, sexy babes and a few great chase scenes - and that's all that is
asked. I thought the best scene was the first one, a chase down
mountain in the Dominican Republic. That was like a James Bond opening
scene: a real attention-getter.

After that, you get the normal F&F material, which glamorizes things
that shouldn't be (racing through crowded streets, etc.) but also has
the "good" guys going to capture a drug lord from Mexico.....and a lot
of punks along the way. They all sneer and have a lot of tattoos. 

I've only seen this one and the first in the series but from what I
read here, I've seen the two best of the four Fast & Furious films. Vin
Diesel helps make them a notch above the others, I suspect. He's always
interesting as "Dom Toretto" and his character is the most credible.
<|_=00=_|>
This might bring the audience a lot of questions about the return of
the characters Brian O'Connor and specially Han Seoul-Oh after the
events in The Fast And The Furious: Tokyo Drift. Fast & Furious is the
sequel to the previous films 2 Fast 2 Furious (2003), followed by The
Fast And The Furious (2001) and the prequel to The Fast And The
Furious: Tokyo Drift (2006).

What that made this Fast & Furious to be a better sequel than the 2003
film 2 Fast 2 Furious is that all the original casts return in this
one. Vin Diesel as Dominic Toretto, Paul Walker as Brian O'Connor,
Jordana Brewster as Mia Toretto and Michelle Rodriguez as Leticia
''Letty'' Ortiz. The film also introduces new characters Fenix (Laz
Alonso), Omar (Don Omar), Leo Tego (Tego Calderon), Cara Mirtha (Mirtha
Michelle) and Campos (John Ortiz). Sung Kang who played Han Seoul-Oh in
Tokyo Drift has also made a special appearance. We can briefly say that
this is the direct sequel to the 2001 film. It begins from where it
ended.

The film focuses mostly on swag, sex appeal, action, hunt and most
importantly on the American Muscle cars. Why the film holds my
attention is because the film promises on what is says in it's title:
Fast & Furious. It's definitely more fast and more furious than the
original one. 

It has passed 8 years since the last time Vin Diesel portrayed the
character Dominic Toretto. He has pumped up his body and fits perfectly
to be the legend of street racing. Paul Walker who portrayed Brian
O'Connor is still phenomenal as he has always been in the previous Fast
& Furious films. Laz Alonso and John Ortiz have lived up in their
roles.

Overall this is a perfect Saturday-night movie. If you want to see the
classics in action then Fast & Furious is definitely the one you do not
want to miss!
<|_=00=_|>
The best way to describe Fast & Furious would be as a guilty pleasure.
There's nothing to lend weight to this film as a great work, an Oscar
contender or a movie worthy of critical acclaim, but there something
about this, as there was with the first, The Fast And The Furious, back
in 2001.

Rob Cohen has never been known for subtlety and his 2001 film was far
from it, but even even though he had nothing to do with this, his stamp
is well and truly on it. Fast & Furious is the fourth in this
surprising successful franchise, and besides the fact that I liked the
original in spite of the fact that I'm NOT a motor-head, I've avoided
the intervening sequels, 2 fast, 2 Furious and Tokyo Drift, for one
simple reason, besides the fact that just didn't fancy them.

No Vin Diesel. I'm not suggesting that Vin is the greatest actor in the
Hollywood, nor should be treading the boards of the Royal Shakespeare
Company anytime soon, but his blockhead with a heart of gold persona
works for me. He's likable and suits this role down to a tee, as does
his dimwitted surfer dude sidekick, Paul Walker.

Walker offers nothing significant to the film except for his
relationship with Diesel. The pairing is enjoyable but little more, but
isn't that the point of adrenalin films like this? This is about cars,
women, cops and robbers, and great fun to boot. The tone of this movie
is on par with Cohen's original and though I can't justifiably compare
this to the sequels which I have never seen, I don't want too either.
This is the sequel that 2 Fast should have been and I only hope that
now they're back on track, that Fast & Furious 5 could be another romp
worthy of a watch.

It's nice to see a franchise go off track and find its feet again after
so many years and it is a testament to the original cast who, though
only have a limited range, have clearly breathed life back into the
franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I love this series. It has good looking, along with fast cars,
decent performances, and interesting back stories. Fast and Furious is
sort of a mix between the last three entries, and that is where this
one will either make or lose an audience.

The past three were about showing off both tuner and muscle cars while
putting them in some very cool situations. The first two were about
plain drag and street racing, while Tokyo Drift was about drifting with
a couple of street races thrown in for good measure. This one again
mixes all three together. In one showcase scene, four racers are
scrambling to make it to be the first across the finish line about five
miles down the road. They are racing past, into, and around oncoming
traffic using street racing and drifting tactics. However, my only
gripe about the cars is that they don't seem to be top focus here.
Don't get me wrong, Dom's Charger and Bryan trademark car from 2F2F,
the Skyline, is back, along with some other cool automotive toys, but
aren't used to the effect of the first three.

Where this movie shines is in it's presentation. This Fast and Furious
is focused on and has, wait for it, a good story fueling (excuse the
bad pun) this entry. While nowhere near Oscar or the Academy Awards
material, this is fan service to every extent of the meaning. Jordana
Brewster, Paul Walker, Michelle Rodriguez, Vin Diesel, and even Sung
Kang (as Han), return for this movie, along with giving decent
performances While definitely continuing the story of the first, I
didn't hear any references to the events of 2F2F. I'm wondering if they
know themselves that that one was a mistake? BTW, this story takes
place between 2F2F and Tokyo Drift, if Han returning wasn't any
indication.

Overall, fans of the series should like this one, and ranks right up
there with the first and Tokyo Drift. If you are not a fan, don't go in
thinking this movie is going to be revolutionary or extraordinary, like
critics. Instead, just think about having fun watching an action packed
thrill-ride that is about two hours long.
