
Goosebumps is a fun, family friendly movie. It captures the nostalgia
from back when I was a kid, and I thoroughly enjoyed the movie
throughout.

The essential storyline is, monsters are released from R.L. Stine's
manuscripts and cause mayhem through the town. We follow as the main
leads attempt to put an end to the madness.

The actors do a decent job throughout, and Jack Black really excels as
R.L. Stine. Aside from him, the main cast is made up of relative
unknowns, however they do an adequate job.

The special effects are very well done, and the monsters look real.

Overall, I don't feel this movie is going to win any awards, but if you
just want to have a good time at the movies, then go check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember when I was young the Goosebumps TV show, but I was never got
into it, or the books they are based on past the the point of just
knowing who R.L. Stine is.

It's a perfect treat for Halloween as a group of children accidentally
unleash the monsters from Stine's mind, by unlocking the books they
were written into. 

It's a fantastic adventure as Stine and this group of kids attempt to
put his monsters back into the books.

It's a fun story even if you are not aware of Goosebumps, but I'm sure
if you are a huge fan, you'll get a real kick out of seeing some of the
monsters from your favorite book make an appearance on the big screen.

It's not just a fun film as some of the monsters were real creepy. Like
the Gnome army, the giant prey mantis and especially a ventriloquist
"puppet" voiced by Jack Black (who also plays a fictional version of
Stine).

It's a great time at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
The Goosebumps book series where a big sellers in the 90's, so was the
T.V. series, which was The Twilight Zone for preteens. R.L. Stine
proves he had a creative mind with such bizarre tales and some insane
plot twist. So having some of the Goosebumps characters come alive in
the real world, is quite a tribute to R.L. Stine's work.

Jack Black is quite enjoyable, seems to having the most fun has Stine,
at times he is a little over the top, but in a good way. Odeya Rush is
good has Hannah. But it's Dylan Minnette and Ryan Lee who play Zach and
Champ, really bring the comedy here, those two have such comedic
chemistry they are like a comedy team. The effects are incredible, an
amusing CGI fest. The movie never takes itself seriously, if you like
The Monster Squad(1987), so I'll bet you'll get an good ride out of
Goosebumps.
<|_=00=_|>
I grew up reading Goosebumps and could not wait for this film. There
were no expectations going into this, knowing it was not an adaptation
of one singular novel. It was a fantastic surprise! I'm in my late 20s
so I was thrilled to see my favorite monsters on the screen. But even
young children would burst out in laughter. Jack Black is one of the
greatest character actors of this generation and does not disappoint as
Stine. Dylan Minette proved his talent and range as the teenaged
protagonist. The film had great flow while offering character
development. It's not an Oscar contender by any means, but if you want
to see a great family friendly film that makes you laugh or feel you
with nostalgia, I recommend Goosebumps!
<|_=00=_|>
I've never really been quiet when it comes to the lack of live-action
family films these days. Growing up in the '90s there were a plethora
of them. Over the past decade or so there has been a steep decline in
this sub genre with studios opting to make animated films instead. It's
somewhat understandable since they're more reliable when it comes to
making a profit, as seen by the success that Pixar and Dreamworks have
had. But there's just something to be said about watching actual people
on screen deal with their problems. Especially as children, it kindles
our imaginations because if we see it happening to them, it could
happen to us too, right? And when done correctly they can really be
memorable.

While this film is only partially animated, it takes place in the real
world with live-action humans. In Goosebumps, the motion picture based
on R.L. Stine's enormously successful children's book series of the
same name, Zach (Dylan Minnette) and his mother move to the suburban
town of Madison, Delaware. Zach gripes a lot about there being nothing
to do in his new city until the mysterious homeschooled neighbor girl
(Odeya Rush) befriends him and he develops an interest in her. One
night he's led to believe that she may be imprisoned by her own father,
a fictionalized version of R.L. Stine himself (Jack Black), and sneaks
into her house. He discovers a bookshelf full of Goosebumps manuscripts
which he decides to explore. Opening the first story releases a 10-foot
tall abominable snowman who starts wreaking havoc throughout the town.
Eventually, one by one, each story gets opened up with the books'
respective monsters coming to life trying to kill their creator, Stine.

Some may consider it a bad thing, but this movie does a great job of
not holding back any scares. Adults shouldn't have too hard of a
time--although certain monsters may tap into your own personal
phobias--but it will definitely haunt many children. But that's what
makes Goosebumps so appealing. It keeps the visuals acceptable, but
never tones itself down. When I was little we had the anthology
television show Are You Afraid of the Dark? which still creeps me out
as an adult. Goosebumps is frightening, but it's a harmless scare. It
provides us with the same macabre tone of the novels--probably much to
the dismay of some of the parents.

It gets most of the character background out of the way early on in the
first third of the film, which gives itself room to run free for the
last hour or so. However, it lets most of that information sit idle for
the rest of the film--some of which never really gets revisited.

The movie hits its stride about 20 minutes in when we start witnessing
Stine's creepiness first hand and the books start coming to life. We
are dying to know why it's happening and how to stop it, and that
information may be given away a bit too easily. But not to worry
because, in true R.L. Stine fashion, we still get our fill of twists
throughout.

What this film does really well, albeit stylistically inconsistent at
times, is make us laugh. The humor works well on both adult and kid
levels. It's really a funny movie and it does so without becoming too
irreverent. We still feel like something's at stake, but the jokes help
to lighten to the tone on the scarier elements of the film. I think one
reason why live-action family films have failed in recent years is
because filmmakers have lost touch with what makes kids laugh. They
know kids want to see something really outrageous that they would only
be able to see in animation, but I think this film may be on to
something by aiming the jokes back up to the grownups and not dumbing
them down. It doesn't fall back on cheap slapstick or fart jokes to get
laughs--it's gets them with some pretty solid comedic timing and by
finding cleaner versions of the humor that's popular in recent R-rated
comedies.

Goosebumps may not be a Best Picture nominee, but it's extremely
enjoyable and acts as a great tribute to R.L. Stine's famed franchise.
It elicits our imagination and does so through the medium of
literature. And there is also a nod to Steve McQueen's The Blob, which
is one of my favorites.

Although I would have liked to have seen just a handful of stories
explored in depth rather than all the stories being briefly touched
upon with highlights on maybe 3 or 4, I'm sure the future sequels will
do a better job focusing in on one or two stories. Despite the slightly
rocky pacing and the minor, yet sloppy, plot holes, Goosebumps will
please fans of the book series and will bring adults back to the days
when their imaginations weren't so jaded. Hopefully the success of this
film will help set the trend for a return of live-action family films.

Twizard Rating: 87 **Review can also be found at TheTwizard.com**
<|_=00=_|>
"Stephen King is no slouch," commented a member of the Movie Fan
Facebook Page staff. The man has published 60 books, which have sold
over 350 million copies. "Wait a minute," you say. "Why start a review
of a movie based on R.L. Stine's books by talking about Stephen King?"
Fair question. Well, Stine has been called "the Stephen King of
children's literature." Beyond that, you may be surprised to learn that
Stine has bested the famously prolific King by publishing hundreds of
books, which have sold over 400 million copies! Think about that. It's
enough to give you goose bumps. That, of course, is the name of
Stine's most popular series of books, brought to the big screen in the
film "Goosebumps" (PG, 1:43).

Fans of the series may wonder which of the books is the basis for the
movie. The answer is none of them  and all of them. Rather than
adapting any one of Stine's books, which are, admittedly, relatively
short (as Stephen King exclaims, "Ah-HAH! See?"), this film imagines a
world in which Stine's monsters come to life and terrorize a small
town, while R.L. Stein himself, along with a few local teenagers,
attempt to recapture the creatures and save the town. I won't spoil the
movie, except to say that, in the end, we Movie Fans get a film that is
as exciting and delightful as any of the books that inspired this
story.

The film has Jack Black portraying Stine as an unfriendly recluse in
the tiny (fictional) town of Madison, Delaware. Showing Stine as a
movie character which we get to know as a man, but is only a
fictionalized version of the real person recalls movies like Charlie
Kaufman's 1999 fantasy comedy-drama "Being John Malkovich" or Matthew
LeBlanc (starting in 2011) playing himself as an adorable jerk in the
Showtime comedy series "Episodes". Black's Stine calls himself Mr.
Shivers. He's a widower who lives in a big house with his kind, but
mischievous 16-year-old daughter, Hannah (Odeya Rush), whom he
homeschools. 

Moving in right next door is Madison High School's new assistant
principal, recently widowed Gale Cooper (Amy Ryan), and her teenage
son, Zach (Dylan Minnette), still grieving the loss of his father.
Gale's sweetly clueless sister, Loraine (Jillian Bell) greets them with
open arms, but Zach and Gale simply have a lot of adjusting to do  and
new people to meet. Gale is almost immediately hit on by shy fellow
educator, Coach Carr (Ken Marino), while an awkward nerd ironically
named Champ (Ryan Lee) traps the new guy into a friendship. It's a good
thing for Zach that Hannah is such a pleasure to be around.

One night when Zach looks towards his new neighbor's house and thinks
he sees Mr. Shivers abusing Hannah, he calls Champ and they steal into
the house. Zach and Champ see that Hannah's okay, but not before they
find a key and open a locked "Goosebumps" manuscript among many on a
shelf in Mr. Shivers' study. The book is "The Abominable Snowman of
Pasadena" and unlocking the manuscript allows a large, furry creature
to literally jump off the page. The three teens run after him, Hannah
telling them that the monster can only be re-captured by sucking him
back into the book from whence he came. The Abominable Snowman wreaks
havoc on the town until Mr. Shivers shows up to save the day.

In the destruction that the creature caused in the study, all the
manuscripts fell to the floor and one of them popped open  one
releasing the evil Slappy the Dummy. Slappy unleashes complete mayhem
in Madison  on the night of a big high school dance nonetheless. The
police (a hilarious Timothy Simons and Amanda Lund) are no help, but
few people would be. That ventriloquist dummy serves as the ringleader
of a gang of dangerous and destructive creations including a wolfman, a
maniacal clown, a herd of garden gnomes and a gargantuan praying
mantis. They all want revenge on their creator for keeping them locked
up so long. And Stein is the only one who even has a chance of stopping
them. 

When Stine's creations come to life, besides clear memories of Robin
Williams' 1995 hit "Jumanji", this situation reminds us of Emma
Thompson's author writing Will Ferrell's character into existence in
2006's "Stranger Than Fiction", or the underseen 1979 thriller "Time
After Time" in which the character of H.G. Wells (author of the sci-fi
classic "The Time Machine") uses profits from his writing to build a
working time machine which one of his friends uses to escape the police
and continue a killing spree when it is discovered that he's Jack the
Ripper. "Goosebumps" deserves a place among these other great films.

This film's story may not be completely original, but it feels fresh
and it is fantastically well executed. All of the actors are perfectly
cast (even Jack Black, who, in our opinion, seems to have had more
misses than hits in his career). With the help of a story by Scott
Alexander and Larry Karaszewski, a script by Darren Lemke and the
direction of Rob Letterman, this cast and this story hit the perfect
balance between frightening and fun  just like the "Goosebumps" books
themselves. The script is very funny and the dialog and character
interactions are charming from the very beginning to the very end of
the movie. The interesting characters, the story's danger and
adventure, along with the excitement and humor all seamlessly
contribute to a simply wonderful family film that will appeal to kids
of all ages, even if they don't know their goose bumps from their speed
bumps or their Kings from their Stines. "A+"
<|_=00=_|>
If I was 10 years younger and perhaps 10 IQ points dumber I would loved
loved this movie. This takes me back to those Nickoledian days,
particularly their famous show "Are you afraid of the dark" where a
group of kids would come together before midnight to tell scary stories
to each other and stories of monsters coming out of books were among
the most popular; so this entire movie could have fit like an extended
episode in the series.

Intellectually and emotionally this is at the level of high school with
the classic high school tropes: young kid moves to a new school, falls
in love with a weird girl, geeky virgin wants to get laid so
desperately tries to be his friend, oh and there is high school prom.
Of course with the major difference that a universe of monsters from
the Goosebumps series have been accidentally unleashed on the town, and
are going to crash that prom night.

Technically, a well polished movie with good monster effects work, but
which is becoming run of the mill stuff now in your typical Hollywoood
teenie pic.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my entire family to see this movie, and I was actually
pleasantly surprised at how good it was. Everything about this
screamed, remake of a property from the past, a washed up actor as one
of the lead, etc., 'terrible movie', but I'm really glad that they
actually made this quite well. I'd say if you need a movie for all ages
then Goosebumps is your best best this fall/winter besides Peanuts and
Good Dinosaur. 

I'm not going to say goosebumps is a perfect movie though, I mean a lot
of the main plot points are clichés, and while I liked Black's
performance because I thought it was over the top crazy (which he does
quite well), others might not find it as amusing. Overall definitely a
movie to check out! I watched the Goosebumps cartoon as a kid, and I'm
happy to say this is better than previous iterations of R.L. Stein's
Goosebumps
<|_=00=_|>
Teenager Zach Cooper (Dylan Minnette) and his mother Gale (Amy Ryan)
move from New York to the small fictional town of Madison, Delaware.
His new neighbors are a girl named Hannah (Odeya Rush) and her
mysterious author father "Mr. Shivers" (Jack Black), who tells him to
stay away from his daughter. At his new high school where Gale becomes
the new vice-principal, Zach meets and befriends Champ (Ryan Lee), a
socially awkward student who is often bullied. One night, Zach hears
Shivers and Hannah arguing from his window, followed by Hannah
screaming. When he calls the police to investigate, Shivers assures
Officer Stevens (Timothy Simons) and Officer Brooks (Amanda Lund) that
the scream was from a movie. The officers lecture Zach about wasting
the police's time and leave as Gale reprimands Zach.

Suspicious of Shivers and fearing Hannah is in danger, Zach anonymously
calls Shivers and pretends to be a police officer and tells him to come
to the police station for further questioning. Once he is gone, Zach
and Champ break into Shivers' house in search of Hannah. They find
several manuscripts from the Goosebumps book series, all of which are
locked. They unlock The Abominable Snowman of Pasadena, but are
confronted by Hannah who assumes they are burglarizing the house. Zach
clears up the misunderstanding. But when he accidentally opens the
unlocked book, the Abominable Snowman emerges from it and breaks out of
the house. In the ensuing chaos, the Night of the Living Dummy
manuscript is accidentally unlocked as well. Zach, Champ, and Hannah
pursue the Abominable Snowman to a local ice rink where it attacks
them, but Shivers appears and sucks it back into the book.

On the way home, it is revealed that "Mr. Shivers" is actually R.L.
Stine, the author of the Goosebumps books. He explains to the three
kids that he created the books' monsters when he was a child to cope
with severe bullying. However, the monsters became real and he had to
lock them in their manuscripts. Returning to the house, Stine and the
kids are confronted by Slappy the Dummy (voiced by Jack Black), the
villain of Night of the Living Dummy who is angry about being
imprisoned. Before Stine can capture him, Slappy burns his own
manuscript and flees with the other manuscripts in The Haunted Car. The
Lawn Gnomes from Revenge of the Lawn Gnomes are also freed. Zach,
Hannah and Champ help Stine smash them into pieces, but each gnome
reforms itself making them realize that they cannot be destroyed.

Slappy frees the other Goosebumps monsters, destroys their manuscripts,
and leads them on a destructive rampage across Madison where the Body
Squeezer from Invasion of the Body Squeezers Pt. 1 and 2 freeze the
entire police department. Zach suggests to Stine to write a new book
that will trap every monster, but he can only do it on a special
typewriter which is at the high school. He and the kids are attacked by
various Goosebumps monsters on their way to the school including Brent
Green the invisible boy (also voiced by Jack Black) from My Best Friend
is Invisible and a giant mantis from A Shocker On Shock Street. Will
Blake's werewolf form from The Werewolf of Fever Swamp pursues them in
an abandoned supermarket. They escape and Zach's aunt Lorraine (Jillian
Bell) hits the werewolf with her car. As Stine and the kids continue
toward the high school through the cemetery, Zach notices that Hannah
glows a ghostly blue in the moonlight. Before he can ask her about it,
a zombie bursts out of the ground. After they escape the zombies from
Welcome To Dead House and the Graveyard Ghouls from Attack of the
Graveyard Ghouls in the cemetery, he privately questions Stine about
Hannah's existence. Stine reveals that she is not real, but a
Goosebumps character he created after his wife died, though Hannah is
unaware of this.

At the school, they find the typewriter and Stine starts working on the
new book. However, Slappy confronts Stine and breaks his fingers before
it can be finished. The monsters attack the school during a fall dance
where the giant mantis grabs a person and the swarms of bees from Why
I'm Afraid of Bees and the mutant plants from Stay Out of the Basement
get into the school. Champ rescues Taylor (Halston Sage) from Will
Blake's werewolf form by biting him with his silver teeth fillings and
they kiss. The students have to barricade themselves inside to keep the
other monsters out.

Stine and the kids board a bus and lead the monsters away from the
school to an abandoned carnival on the outskirts of town. Slappy
catches up with them in the Funhouse and unleashes the giant blob from
The Blob That Ate Everyone. While Stine distracts the monsters, Zach
finishes the story, but is reluctant to open the book because Hannah
will be trapped inside it as well. Hannah reveals that she knew she was
not real all along and opens the book. Slappy and the monsters are all
sucked into it, and while Zach tries to hold on to her, Hannah accepts
her fate and is sucked in as well after they kiss.

Some time later, Stine has started working at the high school as an
English teacher. After class, Zach asks him if he misses Hannah, but
Hannah suddenly reappears. Stine reveals that he wrote her back into
existence with another book. She and Zach kiss and leave school
together while Stine burns Hannah's manuscript and tosses it in the
garbage. As Stine prepares to leave the school, he sees the typewriter
typing "The Invisible Boy's Revenge" by itself revealing that Brent
Green had somehow evaded capture. Stine screams as his hand prints
appear on the cabinet's glass.

This movie is absolutely excellent for all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
The teenager Zach (Dylan Minnette) moves from New York with his widow
mother Gale (Amy Ryan) to Madison, Delaware, where she will be the
vice- principal of the local high-school. Zach is bored and upset and
while bringing his cardboard boxes with his belongings home, he meets
his gorgeous next-door neighbor Hannah (Odeya Rush) that welcomes him.
But soon her creepy father R.L. Stine (Jack Black) threatens him if he
gets close to his daughter again. Zach befriends the clumsy Champ (Ryan
Lee) at school and they schedule to go to a party together on Friday.
However, Zach meets Hannah again but they are caught by Stine. Zach
believes that Stine is an abusive father and he breaks in his house
with Champ to seek out Hannah. When Zach opens a book in Stine's
library, he accidentally unleashes a monster from the book. Soon he
learns that the weird Stine is a famous writer of horror stories that
keeps his imaginary friends that are monsters locked up in each book.
But Zach released the evil Slappy that promises to bring havoc to
Madison opening all the books on the same time.

"Goosebumps" is a silly film that entertains. The plot has funny
moments but Champ is an unbearable character and Ryan Lee does not help
with his face. "Aunt" Lorraine is also annoying, but Amy Ryan performs
a nice character. The chemistry between Dylan Minnette and the lovely
Odeya Rush, who seems to be a sister of Mila Kunis, are worthwhile
watching. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Goosebumps: Monstros e Arrepios" ("Goosebumps:
Monsters and Chills")
