
As of writing, Choke has not yet been given official distribution, and
will not get it for about another month and a half at least (depending
on your location). However, I managed to see it at the annual local
film festival. I'll bring this review up when the film gets a wider
release, but for now here is my initial opinion.

Choke is the story of sex-addicted loser Victor Mancini (Sam Rockwell).
Victor's main concern in life is to keep his demented mother (Anjelica
Huston) alive and in hospital. He does this in the hope of finding out
the truth about his strangely absent father. To pay the bills, he
pretends to choke on his dinner in fancy restaurants and plays off his
saviour's heroism for financial gain.

I think the majority of readers here are at the very least aware of the
existence of Fight Club, the only other major movie aside from Choke to
be based off a Chuck Palahniuk novel. Most of the people who will seek
out Choke will do it mainly because of the connection to either Fight
Club or the Choke novel (or both, as the case may be). Of course, I'll
have to play the comparison game here, but it has to be said - Choke is
a very different beast to both its source novel and its spiritual
predecessor, Fight Club.

Anyone who's read Palahniuk's writing will know that his books are
frequently dark, very twisted and somewhat humorous. Words like
"diseased" and "cancerous" come to mind. It's this same feeling that
infected both the Fight Club and Choke novels and made them perverse
joys to read. Palahniuk's touch even translated perfectly in David
Fincher's adaptation. With Clark Gregg's adaptation of Choke, the
stylish darkness is traded for a far more conventional
"quasi-independent comic" approach. Strangely enough, this seems to
suit Choke even better.

After all, Choke is first and foremost a comedy. At a guess, I'd say
it's roughly 80 per cent faithful to the original novel (more on that
later) with a large number of jokes lifted from the novel. The laugh
factor was a strange thing. On one hand, the laughs managed to stay
more or less consistent, with none of the jokes falling flat. On the
other hand, I personally didn't feel like anything was too funny.
Everything raised a genuine chuckle but as for anything approaching
"struggling-to-breathe" humour, there wasn't much there. It makes me
wonder what's better, a comedy with consistent chuckling or sporadic
bursts of hilarious moments. Not too sure.

Regardless, the film manages to be an enjoyable experience. First-timer
Gregg manages to handle his duties (which include writing, directing
and even one very amusing bit part) with confidence, balancing comedy
with drama effectively. The acting is impressive to say the least.
Rockwell manages to nail Victor perfectly, yet it's Brad William Henke
that manages to steal several scenes as Victor's friend Denny. Another
treat is the score, which is an interesting blend of different styles.

Choke not only manages to be an entertaining comedy, it also becomes a
very good example of how to streamline a 300-page novel into a movie
that's just shy of the 90-minute mark. The only problem with it depends
on whether or not your sense of humour agrees with the film's, but if
this film was already on your "to-see" list, that shouldn't be too much
of a problem.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the opportunity to view the film Choke at Columbia College
Chicago for a screening which held a Q&A with the main actor of the
film, Sam Rockwell; so being that I read the novel before as well, I
would like to share my take on the film. 

No synopsis here; read the one that IMDb's.

If you have read the Palahniuk novel Choke, then you should expect that
this 90 minute film cannot hold all of the sexual intensity (and
comical vulgarity) that the novel had the space to provide for. Do not
get me wrong--this film is very funny and Sam Rockwell is, as usual,
superb in the anti-hero role that he's played so well in other films.

My one (and major) problem with the film is the fact that it was 90
minutes and wasn't pushed to be a 2 hour piece. I felt that there was
so much more to delve into psychologically that Choke the novel did
with sex addiction and the story and idea (will not spoil here) of who
the character Victor Mancini was or thinks he is. Rockwell's great
acting did a lot to pick up this slag, I do have to mention.

One thing I did like, which was also done with the ending of Fight Club
(another Palahniuk novel) is that (again, will not spoil here) the
finish to the Choke film was more satisfying then the deus ex machina
endings that Palahniuk sometimes (well, many times) does with his
stories.

Kelly Macdonald, who is wonderful in anything that she is in, as well
as the other supporting actors and actresses kept the story alive and
in a wonderful way.

The pacing of the film as well as the narrative was very much
"Palahniuk" and this is a pace and narrative that is one of a kind and
most interesting to view; which is aside from the usually predictable
flow of the other films of today. 

I did give this movie a 7/10 but I still believe that it is a movie
that should be seen by anyone who likes to laugh, especially at things
they don't think they would laugh at. Also, because the overall story
is hilarious and is satisfyingly unique and the acting makes the film
whole, too.

And did I mention Sam Rockwell was great?
<|_=00=_|>
This movie left me in a strangely ambivalent state after I watched it,
because I'm not sure if I'm judging it on its actual merits, or my
expectations. Having been a fan of Chuck Palahniuk's novel, I was
expecting something brash, frenetic and perfectly offensive, but in a
good way. The problem is that while the novel was blunt and vulgar,
spelling out every bit of Victor Mancini's sexual exploits in almost
academic detail, the movie stops a bit short of pushing the edge and
instead leaves a lot of it up to suggestion. 

Another reason that I'm not sure how I felt about it is because the
director took a unique approach to the work that I'm still trying to
decide if I liked or not. You see, Chuck Palahniuk's novels have a very
distinctive narrative style to them, and in Fight Club (also based on
one of Chuck's books,) director David Fincher emulated it perfectly.
I'm talking mostly about Chuck's usage of repetition with lines such as
"I am Jack's colon," Choke's director, Clark Gregg chose not to emulate
this and instead brought the text of the book to life without mimicking
it's distinctive narrative. So if you're a fan of Chuck's work, this
may bother you. On the other hand, it does help Choke stand out on its
own merits and not feel like it's trying to build off of the success of
Fight Club.

So for those of you who haven't read the book, how does it stand? Well
as I said before, considering how much more graphic and indecent this
movie's source material was, I think the movie missed out on a lot of
its potential. I almost feel like Clark Gregg went too easy on all of
the characters making them come off as sympathetic when they worked
better as being completely hopeless. It's also not as funny as it could
have been, since a lot of Victor's (the protagonist's) interactions
with everybody from the sex addicts, to the people in the historic
reenactment village to the people he pretends to choke for, were all
summarized too much, and had much more potential for comedy. Overall
i'd say this movie is alright, but could have been done better.
<|_=00=_|>
Chuck Palahniuk appeals to a younger audience? I thought this movie was
very well written, very well acted and dark and disturbing. I will add
this book to my must read.

I guess I'm a Sam Rockwell fan, and the reason I desperately wanted to
watch this movie and it was only after watching it did I realize this
was based on a book. The movie stands alone very well. I just can't
stop thinking about it. I never believed Victor (Sam Rockwell) to be a
disgusting human being, I saw him as flawed, horribly flawed,
misunderstood, imperfect and what else can you expect when your mother
was completely insane.

I thought Choke was a phenomenal movie, with amazing depth of character
and insight about mental illness. Victor is a sex addict, so there is
an awful lot of sex in the movie - if this bothers you, then do not
bother. You will need an open mind to enjoy this movie.

The comments here on IMDb are extremely disappointing, so please do not
bother reading them.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer for this movie looked promising, even though the reviews
were mixed. I liked Sam Rockwell in 'Matchstick Men' and 'Confessions
of a Dangerous Mind', so I thought I'd take a chance & check this out. 

The plot of the movie is Vic (Sam Rockwell) is a sexually obsessed
colonial era theme park employee and part-time con man, who is
supporting his invalid mother (Anjelica Houston), who resides in a
nursing home, which costs $3000 per month. 

The film is a series of vignettes, with the central themes being Vic's
childhood, his mentally ill mom, his descent into sexual addiction, his
relationship with his best friend Denny (excellently portrayed by Brad
Henke) and his group therapy sessions with other sex addicts.

Vic re-counts his upbringing with his mom, which was chaotic, because
his mom was basically nuts. Vince never knew his father, & much of the
movie (when we aren't subjected to Vince's actual and imagined sexual
encounters), is in trying to figure out who his father was. At one
point, Vic was lead to believe his mom had been artificially
inseminated with semen derived from the DNA of Jesus Christ. Needless
to say, this generated a lot of funny bits.

At the nursing home where his mother lives, Vince befriends Dr. Paige
Marshall (Kelly Macdonald), who also happens to be very close to
Vince's mom. This is a key relationship in the film, & figures
prominently in the film's conclusion. I won't spoil the ending further,
but it was a good one.

This was a very good film, well written & acted.
<|_=00=_|>
The only Chuck P. book I own. It's a very funny book, about lust and
salvation, and here it is on screen in...pretty good form. That is to
say I was a little disappointed, with the ending in particular, which
strikes a very different tone (not terrible, just different)....but
that's neither here nor there.

Choke is the story of Victor, med-school dropout who takes care of his
70's radical mom now suffering from dementia and dying after years of
drug use and mental instability. In order to pay for her upkeep, Victor
pulls double duty at his two jobs, one as an employee at a Colonial
American theme park, and two, choking on food in restaurant, so that
those who save his life, will feel obligated to help him out with cash
from time to time. Who would save someone's life, only to let them die,
once you know their sad penniless (over exaggerated) story? Victor
targets the wealthy and affluent, "You don't wanna get saved by some
waiter", he says in one of many direct addresses to the audience. The
broken 4th wall, reminiscent of Fight Club, is taken directly from the
book, and one of the films stronger techniques.

In the hospital he meets, a young doctor, who assists him in
translating his mother's diary, which leads to shocking questions about
Victor's origins, and his father or lack there of.

Victor goes to sex addict meetings usually just to have sex in the
bathroom with fellow addicts. While his best friend Denny, a chronic
masturbator, begins taking his first shaky steps to recover, which
involves romancing a Stripper and collecting rocks for each day his
sobriety, "idle hands are the devils playground". The sex addiction and
the need to save his mom, are the twin turbines that propel this film,
and by the end they are both so clearly intertwined it escapes being
exploitative.

I enjoyed this version of Choke, which was kinda of like Choke-Light,
but still very funny, if only slightly missing the aim of the novel;
the heady and vulgar mix of the sacred and the profane. That is to say,
important sub-plots, and main-plot points get muted; we know why Victor
chokes, there are more reasons than I stated above, but we don't get to
see the people who fund his faints here, as we do in the book, and so
that aspect of the story, seems a little disconnected. As do Denny and
the rocks, another vital story element for me, got put on the
back-burner here. Denny replaces one fetish with another, and most of
the rooms of his house are filled with rocks.

(Actually they shot this ending, you can see pictures online, but
decided against it, before release.) Okay, but everyone always says the
book is better than the movie, I know, I know, I just had to get that
out.

What's left of Choke though is commanded by Sam Rockwell, who is only
improving as an actor, and Angelica Houston who needs no intro. While
it's not as conceptually taught as I would have liked, its still
really, really funny, and at a few moments, a bit moving (Ive got a
personal soft spot for movies with visits to the demented in hospitals;
The Savages is especially hard to watch), at least for me.

It's an allegorical sex comedy, but it's also a very accessible one,
considering the weirdness of the material. It's a more personal story
than "Fight Club", and almost an opposite ideology, "building
anything", versus "tearing down everything", but told in the same
sardonic writerly tone, weave come to expect from Palahniuk.

In the end, I just wanted more, but it was fun, and the story was
brought to life, mostly just as I had imagined it when reading.

Also it's got the funniest and perhaps the only funny, "rape" scene,
ever filmed (it is and it's not what it sounds like).
<|_=00=_|>
Few authors have as instantly distinctive a style as Chuck Palahniuk:
simply look for the most convoluted, scathingly hilarious, disturbingly
filthy and twisted narratives which somehow prove revelatory of
strikingly genuine nuggets of human nature, usually the ones we would
rather keep hidden. Perhaps for this reason, with the exception of his
enormous cult hit Fight Club, Palahniuk's work has seldom been adapted
for the big screen, with movie executives likely preferring to work
with plots which they can be sure their viewers will understand, and
not result in heart attacks from either repulsion or outrage. As such,
writer/director Clark Gregg's adaptation of Palahniuk's Choke is a
daring move - after all, how often does one see the tale of a sardonic
sex-addict playing on the sympathies of those who save him from choking
to death in restaurants to pay for his mother's hospital bills gracing
the marquees? And yet, as surprising as it may seem, for all of the
caustically humorous overtones, at the heart of Choke lies a
surprisingly tender and fascinatingly complex character study, brimming
with humanity and pathos... and yes, loads of gratuitous sex on the
side. 

Those expecting more along the lines of Fight Club's nihilistic social
commentary and brutal violence may find themselves disappointed, as
Choke's sordid portrait of a man so used to mindlessly numbing his pain
coming to terms with his flaws and potential for good almost by
accident proves a far more sympathetic look, albeit one with graphic
and perverse sexual content. That being said, writer/director Gregg's
screenplay is a razor sharp medley of slashing Palahniuk wit and biting
one-liners as well as surprisingly poignant character revelations,
blending an increasingly eclectic myriad of events into an impressively
concise (the film runs only 89 minutes) yet still cohesive storyline.
If a flaw is to be found, it lies in the film's ending, which flirts
which but mercifully avoids succumbing to convention and provides what
may be one plot twist too many, making the finale somewhat
unnecessarily cluttered (and yet strangely fitting) but in such an
impressively unique work, such minute concerns are easily forgiven. 

One of the film's many blessings is the casting of the supremely
talented Sam Rockwell as Victor Mancini, the sort of lead role he is
far too often deprived of. It is a testament to Rockwell's immense
skill and charisma that he manages not only to sympathize a character
who ultimately sets out to make himself dislikeable but also evokes
both hilarity and pathos in the least likely places, delivering one of
the most remarkable performances in recent memory. Similarly, Angelica
Huston is incendiary as Mancini's mother (in flashbacks shown to be an
even less stable parent before her dementia) and her interactions with
her son prove surprisingly poignant and emotionally wrenching. The
tremendously likable Brad William Henke raises many a laugh as
Mancini's similarly sex-addicted best friend, and Kelly Macdonald gives
a quirky but charming performance as the doctor who may, despite
Mancini's best efforts, end up being a love interest. Director Gregg
has a hilarious supporting role as the earnest head of Victor's
collonial historical interpreter site, and Jonah Bobo proves a rising
talent to watch as Victor's childhood self.

Darkly hilarious, sublimely subversive and yet hiding surprising pathos
and heart, Choke proves one of the most offbeat films of the year, and
is all the more entertaining for it. While the film is without question
not for everyone, those willing to stomach the acerbic and often
disturbing humour and hefty sexual content may discover one of the most
darkly enjoyable movie experiences of quite some time. 

-9/10
<|_=00=_|>
It took almost a decade for a second movie to come out from the
literary source that is Chuck Palahniuk. David Fincher owned Fight
Club, making it a cinematic wonder, enhancing the novel and becoming a
wonderful companion to it. Rumors swirled afterwards about all his
other stories being optioned for film translation, but after 9-11
halted Survivor's chances and Invisible Monsters' progress ended, it
didn't seem good. But here comes 2008, with an unlikely savior in Clark
Gregg, and all of a sudden we have Choke in cinematic glory to bring
the author back into the spotlight. I love his books and all of them
have a pop culture, post-modern feel showing sensibilities that can
succeed on the big screen. Is Gregg the optimum choice to help the
cause? Possibly not, but this is a very narrative driven story without
the flash and flair of other novels, so his inexperience helming a film
isn't overtly noticeable. While it is not as good as the bookhow many
actually arethis film keeps the tone and essence intact, bringing to
life the words on the page. It's subtle and subversive and kept me
entertained throughout.

Gregg has been in Hollywood for a while now, a familiar face to David
Mamet fans, and for all you kiddies, an actor in Ironman. The role he
gives himself here is a good one, the stickler boss of the colonial
theme park that our leads are employed at. It's a thankless role and
definitely the straightman of the ensemble; however, it is his
directing that is really put on display. He doesn't try to go beyond
his limits and I commend him for it. Single-handedly saving the world
from possibly going Palahniuk adaptation-less forever, I have nothing
but praise for the man. There are some camera tricks utilized, most
obviously the quick cuts between our lead Victor Mancini's sex-addicted
visions of every woman being naked to their fully clothed reality, but
it's more or less a strict, linear narrative. I do have to mention the
final shot, which carries on as the credits play, a long take of two
leads making out. In extreme close-up, the highly personal nature of
what is displayed leaves you somewhat uncomfortable due to the length,
but also happy at the idea of these two partaking in the action. It's
the boldest stroke Gregg makes and, being the last thing we see, the
strongest most memorable moment for me.

It's all a comedy from start to finish, but one laced in good writing
and subtlety. There are no real laugh-out-loud moments, except perhaps
the revelation of a man being blind, just a consistent journey of
sarcasm, heartfelt humor, and genuine witty banter. Victor, played
perfectly by Sam Rockwell, really breathing life into the character as
I envisioned him when reading the book, is a man that goes to
restaurants and deliberately chokes so that some unsuspecting Good
Samaritan can save him. These people now have a bond with him, feeling
responsible for his life and in effect send him gifts and money
whenever asked or on the anniversary of their fateful encounter. As one
eyewitness's account says, her son was about to be divorced until his
sense of bravery at saving Victor made his wife fall in love all over
again. This kind of thing is a common trend with our lead; his uncanny
ability to be devious and evil yet always have the outcome end up being
generous and profound to those he is wronging. No wonder the guy
becomes glued to the possibility he may be the second coming of
Christbelieve me, it's actually a plot thread, and one that holds the
film together.

Rockwell's manic overabundance of life becomes a whirlwind, sleeping
with random women at every turn, hanging out with his
masturbation-obsessed best friend (Brad William Henke who hopefully
will start getting more work after this), angering his boss by using
20th century objects in a colonial environment, and visiting his
mother, who is suffering from dementia, that believes he is her old
deceased lawyers. Only Palahniuk's warped mind could come up with this
stuff, let alone tie it all together into a coherent plot that is
interesting to follow through to its conclusion. A burgeoning
relationship with a young nurse at the home, (Kelly Macdonald trying to
hide her Scottish accent for who knows what reason), adds some conflict
and space for Victor to finally seek help for himself and begin step
four of the sex-addict program. Having a lifetime of pain brought on by
the one person he loved, Anjelica Huston as his mother, keeps him
closed off to the world, making it strange for him when he finally
finds someone he can open himself to.

There is so much going on, it'd be tough to talk about without either
ruining the story or ruining the joke's setup. Choke is definitely not
for everyone, the humor is probably too risqué for some and the subject
matter too eccentric and modern for others. Palahniuk, who has a nice
background cameo at the end, uses thinly veiled satire to bring us into
his surreal interpretations of reality and be able to find ourselves
living there. It is definitely one of his smallest scale novels, as far
as craziness goes, but also one of his most accessible. For that
reason, and because Gregg deftly adapted it with a respect to the
source material, we have a resounding success. Hopefully allowing us to
be brought back into his world of miscreants and fiends with a piece
such as this will mean the more out-there stories will finally find
their way to Hollywood. Scratch that. How about to a nice indie company
that will do it right?
<|_=00=_|>
Choke tells the story of Victor Mancini (Sam Rockwell), a sex addict
working in a colonial times reproduction. His mother, Ida (Anjelica
Huston), suffers from dementia, and spends most of her time thinking
Victor is someone else (mainly long dead lawyers) during his frequent
visits to the hospital. To pay the bills, Mancini has a bit of a unique
talent: he chokes on food in swanky restaurants, and practically forces
innocent bystanders into saving him from death.

I read the book Choke a few years ago, thinking it would be same in
vain to writer Chuck Palahniuk's near flawless Fight Club (and of
course, David Fincher's incredible film). But Choke was nothing like
it, and anyone going to see the film thinking it will be is in for a
disappointment.

But like Fight Club before it, Choke is adapted quite well from its
raunchy source material. The story is quite liberally changed in some
instances, but in others, it is an almost literal recreation. Mancini
is a well-rounded character, with bizarrely comic traits that are pure
Palahniuk. I found myself almost crying from laughing so hard at the
comic mishappenings he got himself into, frequently calling back to the
events in the book. It was strange however that so little an amount of
time is spent on the choking that Mancini has down practically to an
art form, but then its off-the-rails, frank portrayal of sex was always
much stronger. First-time director Clark Gregg does an excellent job
making this character so true to Palahniuk's work that you can forgive
him for glossing off something so integral to the plot (but at least it
makes for a whole lot less convoluted, confusing and downright silly
third act). Gregg's addition of the little idiosyncrasies of Mancini's
lifestyle (small cuts to previous sexual encounters, frequent
breast-filled day dreams) only further strengthens how close the film
cuts to its source material.

But despite being 92 minutes long, I think Gregg could have done with a
touch more editing. The film is not lengthy at all (many sequences
practically zip by in the hyper-kinetic sense of Fight Club before it),
but the film feels quite long in some instances. Despite their
importance to the story, the flashback sequences involving a much
younger looking Huston and young Victor (playing by Jonah Bobo) drag on
endlessly, nearly losing their train of thought mid-scene. Some of the
scenes between Mancini and Ida's doctor, Paige Marshall (Kelly
Macdonald), also have a habit of dragging their heels. Some cuts here
and there in these scenes could have only benefited the film. As well,
Gregg's doing away with the third act leaves some subplots hanging in
the balance, never to fully integrate themselves with the film as a
whole. Non-readers may not even notice some of them (including one
glaring omission), but it may strike those who have read it as quite
odd.

The supporting cast is pretty well rounded. Macdonald does a great job
in her scenes, as do Bijou Phillips in a small role as one of Mancini's
co-workers, and Gregg himself as the lead character in the colonial
times reproduction. I had failed to realize it was him when watching
the film, but he brings a special greatness to every one of his
character's lines.

I was a little disappointed however in Brad William Henke's portrayal
of Mancini's friend Denny however. Not because Henke does a bad job in
the role, but because he does not get nearly enough time on screen. He
steals many of his scenes, and seems to know just how to frame Denny,
frequently shifting from the downtrodden weakling of a sidekick, to the
strong willed individual Mancini wishes he could be. Henke is having
fun in the goofy role, and it is obvious that he is very comfortable
doing it. He does not have a whole lot of credits on his filmography,
but I can only help this role makes him a lot more accessible in
Hollywood. More scenes could have only reinforced the notion.

Huston, looking much older than usual for the majority of the film, is
excellent in her portrayal of Ida. She does not look to be doing much,
but the emotions she conveys simply through her facial movements and
expressions is enough to suggest that she is doing more than simply
phoning in her performance. The role may not seem too tough, but she
pulls it off without breaking a sweat. Despite disliking the flashback
scenes, they only further developed her character into the closet
psycho she is so great at playing.

But the movie rests on Rockwell's shoulders, and he is clearly up to
the task. The breath of life he gives Victor Mancini is almost poetic
in how personal it looks and sounds. No, he does not give the same
energy that Brad Pitt does as Tyler Durdan, but this does not seem to
bother Rockwell in the least. He plays Mancini just the way he needs to
in order to make him a believable regular guy, suffering from addiction
problems and his need to please his overbearing mother even as she is
slowly withering away. You can see the pain in his face right from
minute one, and never once does he let us take this idealism for
granted. He uses it and characterizes Mancini with a great breadth of
thought not regularly seen in contemporary American cinema.

While it is not perfect at all, Choke is a wonderfully valiant attempt
at recapturing the nearly demented nature of a Palahniuk book. His
unique voice is captured quite fluidly within the film, and
writer/director Gregg can be quite proud of his work here. With the
help of a great supporting cast, Rockwell practically lights up the
screen in a way that only further proves his greatness as an actor.

7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
An extreme exploration of sexual deviancy, compulsions and
abnormalities, Choke is thought-provoking and challenging. It dwells on
oddities to make the story unpredictable and spontaneous, instead of
presenting eccentricities just for the sake of being weird. This darkly
humorous work features outstanding performances by its clever cast, as
well as some of the most perversely shocking and hilariously vulgar
explanations of self destruction and redemption.

To pay for an expensive hospital room for his mother, who can no longer
even recognize her own son, Victor Mancini (Sam Rockwell) frequently
pretends to choke during meals at expensive restaurants. Planning to be
saved by the wealthiest patrons, he then parasitically feeds on their
heroism and sympathies for the life they've saved. Conning his rescuers
through letters and updates on his life (renewing the "savior
experience" as he calls it), he continually receives money to use for
his mother.

While not pulling his scam, Victor works at a Colonial Williamsburg
theme park (imagine the Renaissance Festival) where he portrays the
backbone of America - an Irish indentured servant. Along with his best
friend Denny (Brad William Henke) he also finds time to cruise sexual
addiction recovery meetings looking for quick action. But when his
mother Ida (Angelica Huston) slips deeper into derangement, he seeks
out murky truths about his childhood with the help of the mysterious
Dr. Paige Marshall (Kelly MacDonald).

As Victor narrates his piteous existence, he's on a fast track to being
the most unordinary of misfits; and yet he ends up being our antihero
and the least of the insane. In the world of Choke, even the nuns are
scum. Although a med-school dropout, a man with few morals and an
insatiable lust for meaningless sex, Victor still manages to be a
character to hail. Well-placed flashbacks give us insight on his
unfavorably anomalistic childhood, as well as the purity and innocence
that once existed in our now corrupted paladin.

The narcissism and peculiarities of the characters in Choke account for
its uniqueness and its dark, vulgar humor. Although its target audience
might be slim, the success of Palahniuk's only other theatrically
adapted story Fight Club might boost interests in this original and
highly entertaining film. The similarities between the two are limited,
aside from the quirky dialogue, deviant subject matter and the
frequenting of rehabilitation workshops, but the idea that the most
twisted minds can eventually produce sound satisfaction is a testament
to these often morbid plot lines.

- Mike Massie
