
If aliens exist, and if they have access to the films made from Earth,
they would likely make a mental note to remind themselves that should
they visit our planet on terms other than a hostile takeover or
annihilation, to avoid landing in the USA at all costs. Hollywood has
enough dough to continuously churn out effects laden science-fiction
movies, and most of them are big budgeted action fests like
Independence Day and Men In Black, which don't exactly paint a good
picture of the extra-terrestrials. Aliens who have more benign intent,
would be frightened by how trigger happy and violence prone the US is
toward illegal aliens, even if popular culture meant the landing zone
for extra terrestrials is the USA and not other larger countries.

Race to Witch Mountain being Disney fare means the toning down of
practically everything to ensure that it is safe for the entire family
to experience together. Dwayne Johnson seems right at home in family
friendly flicks like The Game Plan (also directed by Andy Fickman), and
I guess his action days on screen will be few and far between,
especially when he gets to flaunt his dramatic and comedic flair. Woe
is the fan boy like me who have grown up with The Rock, but there's no
more people's eyebrow, and we should start to get used to seeing our
idol in a different light on celluloid.

Johnson plays a Las Vegas cab driver Jack Bruno who has a colourful
past that he tries to bury, in order to earn an honest living to buy
his dream Mustang featured in the Steve McQueen movie Bullit. In a
confluence of the stars he picks up a scientist who specializes in
extra terrestrials, before chancing onto two of them when they boarded
his cab without his knowledge. The brother and ssister aliens  Sara
(AnnaSophia Robb) and Seth (Alenxander Ludwig)  are here on a noble
mission, and are in hot pursuit by the shady government agents led by
Henry Burke (Ciaran Hinds) as well as something like a Terminator from
many light years away.

This naturally gives rise to your standard set action sequences where
we get to see the alien twins exercise their rather innocent demeanour
("they're only kids!") to their advantage, behind which hides the
immense powers they possess such as Telepathy and Density manipulation,
which I thought was a very cool power to have. Imagine being able to
pass through walls, yet having tremendous strength in the form of a
road block, literally. AnnaSophia Robb whom I felt did a fantastic job
in The Bridge to Terabithia, stars as the female child, and because of
her character's ability, she brings forth a more trusting, and
empathetic character, in direct contrast to the other alien Seth (The
Seeker from The Dark is Rising is all grown up now), who's more direct,
commanding, aloof and untrusting of humans in general, no doubt their
initial experience was in having their space ship confiscated to Witch
Mountain, and being chased for the conduct of experiments.

Carla Gugino, last seen as the aged Silk Spectre in Watchmen, got
active only in the last third of the show, which was somewhat of a pity
because she shared great chemistry with the rest of the cast, and got
involved quite late into the thick of things. But of course if there's
any consolation, like how the bits during the end credits would
suggest, and depending on the box office results, there might be room
for more in a sequel, if it comes. 

There are references galore in the film given that there's a
science-fiction convention event featured in the movie, and you can't
help but also think about the potential for theme park rides with the
yellow cab being pursued and pretty banged up. In fact I was wondering
each time the cab got put through an action sequence, that it would
make for a great 4D ride in Disneyland. You can't help it because it
was quite in your face, with the sequences designed in that manner,
deliberately or otherwise.

Despite some glaring plot loopholes, Race to Witch Mountain has all the
ingredients for a great family outing. The story doesn't try to be more
intellectual than it can handle, and doesn't let the special effects
run wild and take over everything else. For being such a sentimental
fool, the ending also got some brownie points from me, as it's tough
not to shed a tear or two given the trials and tribulations from which
a solid bond is formed amongst all the characters. Recommended for a
family outing, but don't go expecting something out of this world (pun
not intended), as everything's pretty formula.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey, don't believe the downers trashing this movie. It's fun.
Non-action stop from beginning to the end. Dwayne Johnson, who finally
shed his former wrestling nom de lutre, is a much better actor than
people are willing to concede. He has a mobile face and uses his big
body well with a lot more expression and ability than some of the other
shoot'em up and knock-about action heroes. This film, a remake of the
old Disney classics with a CGI uptake and story rewrite, is
entertaining, engaging and full of witty little pieces for the watchful
viewer. When the alien bad guy gets knocked for a loop and everyone
ducks for cover and the 2 UFO-Trekkie-types rejoice, (Wow. Best
convention ever!) and the one I liked best, one of the nerd bad guys
named Analyst D. Pleasance, for the veteran character actor, Don
Pleasance who played the bad guy in the Disney originals. Also, Irish
actor, Ciaran Hinds makes a superb Man in Black Suit bureaucrat villain
and lovable Cheech Marin as the sleepy mechanic gets his licks in too,
albeit in a bit part. The beautiful Carla Gugino comes across as the
UFO seeking academic and Director Garry Marshall as the nut case
UFOligist makes for good comic relief. The two kids add the mixture
with AnnaSophia Robb reminding me of one of my granddaughters and
Alexander Ludwigs serious facial expression adding to the fun. I found
this film fun from the get-go and recommend it highly.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't see why some people say that they don't like this movie. I
thought it was a very good family oriented movie. It had a great blend
of comedy and action and I found it very refreshing.

I love the Rock and I think he does very well in these types of movies.
I love the old Witch Mountain movies and wasn't sure at first about
this one but it was different enough to be well liked by those who have
watched the old ones and enough action to get the younger crowd. I also
love Ciran Hinds and even though he was playing the bad guy in this
movie it was nice to see him in a role that had him in most of the
movie instead of bit parts, he is a great actor and I hope he gets some
larger roles in the future.

Over all a nice family movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is and is not a remake of the original Witch Mountain movie. It's
more follows the guidelines and then takes off on its own in a more
modern twist. If you liked the old one, you will probably still like
this one too.

The actors did a pretty good job all the way around. The main bad
secret agent guy was a really flat character, while everyone else was
more dynamic. Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson was great in this movie. He
really keeps it going for the audience and is really funny. The kids
are good as well. All the others did an alright job.

The plot has good twists to it and has multiple sides that are all
crashing in together at the same time. The flow of the movie is a
little jerky in a couple spots, but overall is an action packed ride.

The CGI effects are well done and believable. I enjoyed getting to see
that aspect come to life, where the original Witch Mountain could only
dream of seeing such cool stuff! Overall it is a good movie. Your kids
will really like it and you will enjoy it as well. I recommend going
and seeing it to anybody!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite a good amount of bad reviews, people are flocking to see this
film! I wonder if it's the picky old men that don't find a kids film
decent enough for a proper work that disappoint me. I mean, who worse
to judge a kid's movie than an adult? At least a teenager has still got
the perspective of a child...

The film really brought me back to good times at the theaters. I wasn't
around for the original so, I can't compare the two, and went in not
knowing what to expect.

Initially, you could go in and see all the things structurally or
aesthetically incorrect and unpleasing about the story film-wise.
However, if you take the movie for what it is, you'll see that it's
truly the beautifully crafted action-adventure every kid longs to
experience and captured within the mysticism and excitement of a good
space story using just enough cgi to compliment the film, without
overpowering it's actors as so many movies do today. It promises a
simple story with inspiring ideals and experiences woven into its
heart.

So, I couldn't help but put myself in the story for this one, and
became completely immersed in the race. The great plot, unique
characters, and pulse-racing adventure will keep you at the edge of
your seat until the end!
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, it's not great. Second, any of the reviewers who talk
about the original being a classic, I was 11 in 1975. Give me a break.
It was typical of the Disney crap released at this time. Finally, when
I say close to great, I mean in an ET/Iron Giant way. Instead, it's
more along the lines of Cocoon.

This is a good movie, and at times, it IS great. But as a whole, it
falls short. Much of the film is typical. You know, Aliens are good,
men in black are bad, action, chase, environment message, yada yada.
Here's where it's better than your typical sci-fi action family film.

1. Everyone except Carla Gugino (Dr. Alex Freidman) is excellent in
their rolls. Even she isn't particularly bad, just not as good. There
are some good cameos. Gary Marshall is great. 

2. The action: while this is PG, it doesn't shy away from violence or
guns. But the catch is when Dwayne Johnson and the teen-Aliens are
running from an Alien Bounty hunter early on, the teens look scared.
Anna Sophia Robb's eyes really deliver a sense of vulnerability. I
found this as effective as the Train Tunnel chase.

3. It is rather dark for a PG film. The men in black are a culvert
group from our federal government, who point their loaded weapons
constantly at innocent US citizens. The film briefly makes the parallel
to the Alien Bounty Hunter, who is a military agent from the teen-
aliens' planet. Washington is mentioned behind the men in black. They
want to kill our beloved Alien teens.

4. As with most great Sci-Fi, it relates to our times. Our protagonist
teens have no rights because they are illegal aliens. The Men In Black
are out of control. Granted, this would work better if Bush was still
president, but still, it directly plays on the reality that the
executive branch of our government has unchecked power.

5. Two sections of the movie takes place around a sci-fi convention.
This allows for plenty of gags that remind us that the film makers
didn't take this movie too seriously.

Now, if this isn't your kind of film, don't be tempted to see it. But
for family action, yes. For Sci Fi, it's a must see. For a Sci fi
action flick, it does everything well, except the ending. And that's
its fault. It is the typical corn ball alien ending (al-la Cocoon, or
Splash). After the first two acts being so strong, it's too bad.

Let's compare this to Bolt, since both are PG family Disney fare. After
a poor second act, Bolt delivered with a rather emotion resolution.
With Race to Witch Mountain, Act 3 becomes a Ron Howard formula.
Strange, as Act 1 and Act 2 were almost good enough to be a must see
for everyone.

How could this film have delivered better in the end? First of all,
play up the teen-aliens sacrificing themselves to save our world.
Environment, so it reminds us of "This Island Earth". And Sarah dies
making this sacrifice. Now, Seth and Jack stay strong until the end,
when they finally let loose with the tears. Sarah's innocence was very
effective in this movie, and this would be just emotionally
devastating. But in the sequel we discover that Sarah's body has been
reproduced, and her soul was stored in Jack Bruno's brain (think Star
Trek 2 and 3). So he has a sudden fetish for female teen accents and a
strange fascination with Hannah Montana. Would you pay to see Dwane
Johnson air singing with a Hannah Montana wig, earrings, and a bow in
his hair? I think so. So, Disney may have missed the boat on this. Big
time

So close.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm glad I saw this movie before reading any of the other Comments here
on IMDb! As a 63 yr old man, I see at least 4 good movies per week, and
a few bad ones.

I was drawn to this movie by AnnaSophia Robb, and hope to continue to
see everything she does. As one who fell in love with her in "Bridge to
Terabithia", and thrilled with her acting but not so much her bratty
Character in "Sleepwalking", I wanted to see her alive and well and
thriving. Hey, in this movie she is all that and more, she even has
adorable Superpowers! (I went to theater to see her in "Jumper" but
she's only in the first few minutes.) This is the first movie I've seen
with Alexander Ludwig, playing Brother, Seth to AnnaSophia's Sara. He
was brilliant in the part, and I hope to see him again, with or without
his superpowers.

It was a pleasant surprise to see, even if in a minor role for Chris
Marquette as Pope. Chris played Adam in the "Joan of Arcadia" TV
Series. He played slightly flawed but ever lovable character, and not
that different here as a Government Rookie. I'm always pleased to
follow any of the cast from that show.

I was not drawn to see Dwayne Johnson, but as Jack Bruno, he brings a
strong balance to the young players. Garry Marshall, Carla Gugino, and
others bring a wealth of credits to the table and are a credit to their
parts. And Why is Cheech Marin as the Reluctant Mechanic Uncredited? 

I have to mention the amusing and entertaining irony of having our real
Space Aliens at a UFO Convention full of crazy looking caricatures of
other favorite Sci-Fi Movies and UFO Psychos! I didn't care if this was
a remake, or copies of other characters, or whether the special effects
were perfect or believable. After a steady diet of heavy Academy Award
nominated movies for the last 6 weeks, I gave this movie a 10 for pure
absorbing entertainment and a fabulous showcase for the developing
young talent.
<|_=00=_|>
In Las Vegas, the regenerated ex-con Jack Bruno (Dwayne "The Rock"
Johnson) works as taxi driver. During an UFO Convention at Planet
Hollywood, the skeptical Jack picks up Dr. Alex Friedman (Carla
Gugino), who will present a scientific lecture in the event. Then he is
pressed by two henchmen of his former boss, the criminal Wolff, that
wants to talk to him, but Jack does not want to return to the crime
life. Jack fights and gets rid of them; out of the blue, he finds two
teenagers on the backseat of his cab. They tell that they are siblings,
Sara (AnnaSophia Robb) and Seth (Alexander Ludwig), and they need to
travel to a location outside Las Vegas in the middle of nowhere.
Meanwhile the government finds a spacecraft that crashed nearby Las
Vegas and is chasing the two aliens; after the investigation of the men
of Henry Burke (Ciaran Hinds), they discover that the two siblings are
the aliens. Jack Bruno, Sara and Seth are chased by Henry Burke's team
and by the "Syphon", a killer from outer space that has been sent to
kill them by the military of their planet that want to invade Earth.
Sara and Seth explain that they traveled to Earth to collect scientific
data of an experiment and save Earth from invasion, but they need to
return immediately to their planet. Jack teams up with Dr. Alex to
retrieve their spacecraft in a secret base in the Witch Mountain.

"Race to Witch Mountain" is a typical movie from Disney, i.e., a
delightful family entertainment. The story is predictable and uses the
usual clichés of the genre, with the heart-warming hero; the despicable
villain; the chase and the car race; the corny conclusion after the
first contact; despite of that, I liked "Race to Witch Mountain" a lot.
The pleasant cast performs enjoyable characters, and I particularly
like The Rock, AnnaSophia Robb and Carla Gugino very much; only the boy
Alexander Ludwig is unknown for me. I do not understand why some
masochistic viewers that do not like this type of movie waste their
time watching them and then write bad reviews; what would they expect?
My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Montanha Enfeitiçada" ("The Bewitched Mountain")
<|_=00=_|>
I think its nice that Kim Richards and Ike Eisenmann have cameos in the
film as a waitress and sheriff, they were the kids in the 1975
original. I remember my mother taking me to see it when I was seven.
This is an all right film but the original was so much better. Dwayne
Johnson (formally known as the Rock)takes over Eddie Albert's part as
the earthman who befriends the two young aliens, the difference is that
Eddie Albert could act a lot better! One thing I have to say about this
film is that its certainly not boring! I would have loved to have seen
the special effects budget. It has enough explosions and car chases for
three films.
<|_=00=_|>
Dwayne Johnson plays Jack Bruno, Las Vegas cabbie, and Carla Gugino is
Dr. Alex Friedman, UFO expert. Perhaps you saw the preview in which
Bruno and Friedman are crawling thru a tubular tunnel and she admits to
a bit of claustrophobia. Just then Bruno reaches an opening into a deep
vertical shaft and asks "How are you with heights?". It was a good
scene, with a bit of low-key but contextually appropriate humor that
the former Rock has learned to deliver effectively, making him a big,
strapping brute of a guy that you feel comfortable with. But that scene
isn't in the film itself. Instead, we see the aftermath, in which
Friedman is still a bit freaked out, for no apparent reason.

The rest of the movie was like that, too. People seemed to be doing
things with no credible motives. The 2 adults flee from no fewer than 4
sets of pursuers exhibiting varying degrees of hostility (The
Government, a space-alien cross between Predator and Inspector Javert,
Bruno's former mob boss Mr. Wolf and his henchthugs, and the LVPD).
They do so to protect 2 teenage Swedish, I mean space, aliens who are
here to retrieve the mcguffin, um, recording device that will prevent
their planet from launching a hostile takeover, uh, invasion. The gal
of the pair, Sara, is played by AnnaSophia Robb. We know from her
performance in Bridge to Terabithia (2007, 9*) that she can be a
tremendously appealing young actress, but here she gets to do stuff
like pointing her finger and monotonically saying "Go that way, Jack
Bruno.". The boy, Seth, is played by Alexander Ludwig, a cipher.

The government's head alien tracker warns Bruno that the kids are not
what they seem to be. Anyone who's ever seen a science-fiction movie
(which apparently includes precisely zero of any characters who are
actually IN an SF movie) can only begin to imagine what might lurk
beneath those placid blond exteriors, but this proves singularly
untroubling for Bruno, leading right up to the snuggle-bunny ending
(Disney, y'know), which was likewise not well set up by any of the
preceding events.

The scenes set at a UFO convention make good sport of fannish
stereotypes, which some people might find offensive but I choose to
treat as endearing. And I loved the sly humor that they DID leave in
the script, wherein Bruno asks the kids at the controls of the flying
saucer "Do you know how to fly this thing?", they respond "How do you
think we got here?", and he replies "Well, you crashed!". More of that,
from another couple of passes thru the typer, would have earned this
one an upgrade.



*Best SF&F film of the 21st Century so far, IMHO
