
This movie was entertaining and exceeded expectations. I love history
and am a history degree holder with an emphasis and ancient Indo
European culture. I'm not here to tear into this movie as a I felt it
was just fine, but rather try to deflect some "junk" history that some
people seem to throw into the mixed reviews. Please, if you're going to
try to add your own mish-mash of history, at least make sure it's
correct.

That's right, I'm talking about you "Russ-was-here". Firstly, your
review is off base on many levels, I'll try to answer some of those in
a light hearted manner...

The fact that you consider Braveheart to be a "factual" representation
of history is laughable, by this alone we can't take you seriously in
your review of this movie. William Wallace wasn't running around the
battlefield in a kilt, hate to break it to you.

You noted the wide variety of accents here. Is this shocking to you
that actors from around the world took part in a movie, and that they
all had different accents? The Pict language has been dead for quite
some time, while there are rumors that the last confirmed speaker of
Pict died in the 1950s, are we to expect the actors in this movie all
speak ancient dialects of dead languages? get real (yes, that applies
to Latin as well).

Perhaps your biggest mistake in assuming history of this movie is your
statement: "Then comes the fight scenes and complete absence of
interesting Roman tactics, when attacked and flanked on a long narrow
path they simply form a 1 man thick shield wall and wait..." If you had
actually studied Roman history (which I'm certain at this juncture you
have not even cracked open a Tacitus or Pliny or Martial or any other
Roman historian) then you would know the Battle of Teutoberg Wald quite
well. In fact the battle that takes place in this movie is a near
depiction of what the Germans did to the Romans when they destroyed 3
Roman legions while walking through the Black Forest. Ah yes, some of
us actually DO study history. The Romans had no choice but to march
nearly single file through a road, when they realized they were flanked
on both sides (the line was 14 miles long, thus the battle took place
over a 14 mile stretch) the Romans had no choice but to form up as best
they could in the road. This proved devastating as it forced Romans to
fight hand to hand combat against German soldiers who were more skilled
in the area of hand to hand combat.

You mention that the Picts were known for their chariot warfare. Celts
(Picts were a Celtic people) were well known for chariot warfare, as
were many peoples in the Roman world, as you can see in this movie
(especially the battle scene) using chariots would be quite a stupid
move as they were in dense forest (use your brain, boy). As we can see
with the final battle between Boudicca and Rome, using chariots was not
always advantageous. In fact Boudicca sealed her army's fate by
following an infantry charge with chariots (effectively crushing her
infantry between Roman shields and Iceni chariots).

You also mention they fought naked. Indeed, many Indo Europeans fought
in the buff, but that doesn't mean they all walked around in the buff
all the time. They were dressed like Vikings you say? You have an odd
preconceived notion of what the Vikings dressed like, personally I saw
no Pict wearing chainmail (something Normans and Vikings were well
known for). Furthermore it's a myth to believe that all Celts, Germans
or any other Indo Europeans always fought naked. Many barbarian tribes
were incredibly well equipped by 117AD as armor proved to be more and
more of a necessity. We also see that Germanic and Celtic armor had a
direct influence on Roman armor (Romans borrowed their helmet style
from the Gauls for example). As for the movie? It's setting is in the
winter, it would make no sense for Picts to be in the buff all the
time. This is common sense.

Is this overkill? Yup. But I find your post to be (how did you put it?)
completely devoid of historical facts. Does this movie have clichés of
the time? Yup. Is the acting Oscar worthy? Probably not. Should we sit
here and cry about it? nope. Just enjoy the movie. Nobody here is
claiming this is a spitting image of 117AD in the northern UK
(shocking, I know), but your post is ill informed and misleading.

Anyways, this is an entertaining movie and you certainly get the feel
for the day. Engaging and exciting, certainly worth a view.
<|_=00=_|>
This is in direct response to davidfurlotte's fairly asinine
'review'.....

First of all, if you're going to claim to be an authority on these
things, do some research. In practically every interview, Marshall made
it very clear that the film was based on a myth, a legend, nothing
more. He never once tried to claim that this was in any way a true
story.

Also, where did you get that his Dad is a history professor?! He said
his Dad loved history, and that's all. Again, do your research.

Finally, did you actually watch the battle? The Romans were stretched
out in a long column for miles, surrounded on both sides. How do you
move out of the way of fireballs when you've got men on both sides of
you who are also trying to get out of the way of fireballs? You just
end up with men piling into each other, utter chaos, and still
achieving what the Picts intended in the first place, which was to
break the Roman line. And since the Romans where back to back, if you
did get out of the way, you're just allowing the fireballs to rolls
into the backs of the troops defending the opposite flank. With that
many fireballs coming in from both sides, into a densely packed column
of Romans, there simply wasn't anywhere for them to go. The Romans were
trained to hold the line. That's where their strength lay, in
discipline and formation, and this is how the Picts (and the Germanic
tribes) used their biggest strength against them.

The reason I defend this film is because I worked on it myself. And if
it made a few mistakes along the way, like using the wrong kind of
spears, I know it's because the budget was so tight they couldn't
afford enough Pilum's for the number of troops they had. I know this
sounds unbelievable, but it's absolutely true. This films entire budget
was about the size of the costume department budget on Gladiator!

To make another simple comparison, on Braveheart they had 7 weeks to
shoot just the Battle of Stirling. On Centurion we had 7 weeks to shoot
the entire film, battles included. For the scene involving the
fireballs, we had 3 days. So it's to be expected that through the
almost constant barrage of compromise, a few factual mistakes may slip
through the net. As filmmakers we do take exceptional pride in our
work, and we'd love to have the time and the money to get everything
absolutely perfect, but that's just not the reality of low budget
filming in the UK. In the end, we do our best with what we've got.
<|_=00=_|>
Centurion is a great film, and I suspect it's going to be totally
underrated by the cinema-going public. I saw it at my local Odeon last
night, the only cinema in town showing it, and I strongly suspect it
won't be on next week. This is an example of a really good British film
from a director with a strong pedigree not getting the kind of
publicity and public interest that is frequently given to the most
heinous rubbish that Hollywood can produce. Granted, many people don't
share my director-centric view of forthcoming features; I'm prepared to
risk getting my fingers burned occasionally in avidly chasing any films
made by a select bunch of my favourite directors, but my approach is
usually rewarded with excellence, like Centurion. In structure it is a
very simple story, beautifully shot and honestly told. The bloody
battles are very realistic - you get a good feel for what it might
actually have been like to fight hand-to-hand in ancient times, frantic
and deadly. The characters are simply drawn, and develop through their
actions rather than words (quite literally in the case of Olga
Kurylenko's "Etain"). There is good and bad on both sides of the
conflict, which is true to every war in human history. Ultimately, it
offers a quite believable scenario to explain the mysterious historical
disappearance of the 9th Legion in Hibernia.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of the culture and history of early Britain, so my opinion
may be tainted a bit, but I really enjoyed this flick. It had a
surprisingly good story and was not just a blood and guts war fest. It
appears that the movie may be based on Rosemary Sutcliff's Book 'The
Eagle of the Ninth', in which the Ninth Legion is wiped out in Scotland
in AD 117. In any case, there is controversy and mystery as to what
really happened to the 9th, and that makes a setting for a good tale.
There is just enough history to make the story plausible, for example
the creation of Hadrian's wall is depicted.

Neither side is portrayed as the "good guys" or the "bad guys", and to
me, that brought a sense of realism with it. This is a bloody film,
with heads rolling and a plethora of fighting, so don't bring the
kiddies. I watched it On Demand, but I might go see it again in the
theater.
<|_=00=_|>
When the final credits were rolling my regular cinema-going counterpart
observed "that was one of the most outwardly violent films I've seen
since Kill Bill". That's not far from the truth. Limbs are hacked clean
off, stomachs are regularly impaled and the claret fluid sprays
endlessly. Though the major difference is where Tarantino's homage to
the old chop-socky movies from Eastern cinema is cartoonish in its
bloody visuals, Centurion is anything but tongue-in-cheek; here the
blood, sweat and tears seep into the muddy vistas and bucolic rivers of
Great Britain to intensify the atmosphere.

Director Neil Marshall (The Descent) has crafted a gritty movie that at
its core is a simple 'cat and mouse' tale  and a highly entertaining
one at that  but becomes much more thanks to the efficacious work from
all the cast and crew. Marshall himself executes a few impressive
sequences, the most outstanding being the initial ambush on the Ninth
Legion, showing once again he knows how to stretch a small budget with
minimalistic techniques and a passionate approach. Director of
photography Sam McCurdy provides a suitably grimy and grainy look that,
although at times is too dim, sets the ideal tone for the film. Perhaps
Marshall should have monitored the editing closer though, Chris Gill's
frenetic cutting very nearly ruins a couple of the fight scenes.

Major Hollywood star in the waiting Michael Fassbender (played the
German-impersonating British Lieutentant in Inglourious Basterds) is
undoubtedly the standout among the acting contingent. As the titular
soldier, Fassbender makes for a charismatic leading man that convinces
in both the physical and dramatic elements of the role. I eagerly wait
to see what he does as the young Magneto in the upcoming X-Men prequel.
Elsewhere The Wire alumni Dominic West is rough around the edges as the
gruff General Virilus, Olga Kurylenko is positively bad-ass as the
mute, monomaniacal warrior hell-bent on revenge and BBC favourite David
Morrisey adds clout in his supporting role of Bothos.

A grubby, gory delight.

4 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 -
Classic)
<|_=00=_|>
This is a straight forward tale of a band of Roman soldiers being
hunted down by Pict warriors in the stunning surroundings of the
Scottish mountains.

Whilst the dialogue and script won't exactly win any Oscars, the film
was entertaining enough with plenty of blood & guts fighting scenes.

Olga Kurylenko was actually quite convincing in her portrayal of a
brutal ice cold warrior, much better than Keira Knightley's portrayal
of a female warrior in King Arthur. Perhaps Olga not having to utter a
word in the entire film as she portrays a Pict who had her tongue cut
out was a clever way to make her character more cold and mysterious.

I wouldn't quite go as far as one of the previous posters who describes
the first major battle scene on a par with the opening scene in
"Gladiator". Indeed some of the small criticisms I would level would be
the use of very fast action shots during some of the fight scenes, i.e
the camera motion is faster than your eye can register, think opening
car chase in "Quantom of Solace" and you get the picture.

What really stands out in the film though is the stunning back drop of
the Scottish mountains, It's like "Highlander" all over again only
better!

Centurion, doesn't carry the "epic" status as other movies like
"Gladiator","Braveheart" or "Kingdom of heaven", no it's on a much
smaller scale and doesn't really spend too much time on character
development on either the Pict or Roman sides. I suppose in a way it
helps this film as it doesn't get bogged down in lengthy dialogue, but
concentrates more on action.

Whilst this film won't score too highly on the originality stakes, it's
a good effort in an all too neglected genre.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was relatively unheard of when a friend of mine gave a copy
of it. I was skeptical since it was not from Hollywood, no big stars
etc. However, it proved I was wrong. This is not a masterpiece indeed;
but it was able to get me a thrilling ride from beginning to end. To
make it short, I would say this is a combination of "BEHIND ENEMY
LINES" scenario at the pace and editing of "BOURNE ULTIMATUM" set at
the backdrop of "KING ARTHUR". It's true that script does not focus
much on character development but it does not cause any trouble in
enjoying this action-adventure. As one reviewer has mentioned, I agree
that portrayal of a female warrior by Olga Kurylenko is much more
realistic and successful than the similar role played by Keira knightly
in "King Arthur". It is really sad that movies like this are not given
adequate publicity since this is much better than most big budget
Hollywood movies that are being hyped inappropriately.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of Roman soldiers who survived an ambush are chased
relentlessly by a hunting party of Picts. As with every other movie by
Neil Marshall (The Descent, Doomsday) this big screen epic attempts to
mix the grittiness of European filmmaking with the entertainment values
of Hollywood movie-making. And as is becoming signature with this
director, Centurion pursues his tradition to feature very strong and
memorable female characters. 

While it is Centurion Quintus Dias (Michael Fassbender) who is the
protagonist as the somewhat reluctant leader of our heroes, the most
memorable character on screen is Etain, a Brigantian tracker played by
Olga Kurylenko. Etain's tribe was massacred by the Romans and she took
refuge with the Picts. Her backstory is a powerful device that explains
all the hatred she has for Romans and the length she will go to exact
revenge. Neil Marshall makes great use of actress Kurylenko and she
literally eats the screen in almost every scene she is in, despite her
character being mute. Etain reaches iconic status as far as I'm
concerned, much like Karl Vreski (Die Hard).

The actual plot, despite its historical context, is less Gladiator and
more Apocalypto. Several battles are extremely gritty, entering gory
territory as blood flows. There are a lot of CGI sequences mixed with
traditional effects but they do not detract from the experience too
much. Quintus' bunch of survivors are portrayed by a group of effective
actors but the movie's short length prevents much characterization.
Where Marshall is more effective is in the portrayal of the Picts. In
very few words, several characters stand out throughout the movie.

Everything is fairly entertaining but the movie never quite reaches
classic epic status due to its short length and several incongruities.
For instance, I still don't understand why two healthy and armed
soldiers would run away from wolves, nor why wolves would pursue them
(that simply flies in the face of anything we know about the behavior
of wolves). Etain is also ordered to severe the heads of the men she is
chasing but conveniently omits certain characters so that they survive
their injuries, which makes no sense and is transparent bad writing.
Likewise, when the Romans have a chance to steal or kill the Picts'
horses, they simply ignore this opportunity. These plot holes add up
pretty fast and detract from our experience, turning what could have
been a classic into just a great pop corn flick.

But an entertaining pop corn flick it is, despite its faults! I wish
Marshall would be slightly less ambitious, as it seems he is at his
best working on smaller scale movies but he still has a knack to shoot
fun films and create engaging characters. Special kudos for not
glorifying the Roman empire and especially, for not portraying the
Picts as clear-cut villains. Although the structure of the film firmly
puts the Picts in the "baddies" slot, there are several hints and a lot
of subtext that, on the contrary, showcases the Roman empire as
bloodthirsty invaders, plotting backstabbers and savages themselves. 

Every amateur of sword epic will want to see this one at least once,
possibly several times.
<|_=00=_|>
Ultraviolent historical/epic/action yarn with breathtaking battles
including lots of blood and gore . This is a nice as well as exciting
production with a big budget , great sets and thundering battles during
the Roman Empire . The picture deals with historical facts about
confrontation between Romans and Picts . AD 117. The Roman Empire
stretches from Egypt to Spain, and East as far as the Black Sea. But in
northern Britain, the relentless onslaught of conquest has ground to a
halt in face of the guerrilla tactics of an elusive enemy: the savage
and terrifying Picts (they were generally thought to not have worn any
clothes). A Roman army commanded by General Titus Flavius Virilus
(Dominic West) is besieged and deadly attacked . After that , splinter
group of Roman soldiers led by Centurion Quintus Dias (Michael
Fassbender) fight for their lives behind enemy lines after their legion
is decimated in a devastating guerrilla attack . As they attempt to
destroy their leader Gorlacon (Ulrich Thomsen) and face a desperate
struggle to keep his small platoon alive . 

Bloody version based on historical events with overwhelming battles and
great production values starred by Michael Fassbender as the fictional
Centurion , leader of a motley crew of tough , battle-hardened
warriors/underdogs who try to defend themselves against a patrol of
bloody Picts led by a brutal warrior woman . The movie has great action
sequences well staged with stylish and vitality , thrills , a little
bit of romance and is pretty entertaining . Although is a little
revisionist about characters , history and time when is developed the
action in a dirty , gritty Roman Empire during its period in Britain .
Several action scenes are outstanding with spectacular battle images
and thrilling fights . Unfortunately, on small house screens much of
the splendor will be lost . As the movie makes a big deal out of the
supposedly deathly rivalry between Romans and the Picts . German
archaeologists have found evidence of the 9th Legion on the banks of
the Rhine River and carbon-dated them long after these events took
place, suggesting that rather than being wiped out, the reason that
there is no evidence of the 9th Legion being in Scotland after these
battles is that they moved to Germany . The working title for the film
was "Ninth Legion" , the story goes that the Ninth Legion marched to
Scotland from York with 3000 men and were never seen of again.
Historians dispute what actually happened to them. Some believe that
they were disbanded, while others believe that they were massacred . 

Stunning battles scenes illuminate the full-blown feats with a plethora
of engaging action set pieces on the combats in which the heads and
limbs are slice off here and there . Casting is frankly excellent such
as Liam Cunningham , Dominic Cooper , David Morrissey , Ulrich Thomsen
, Imogen Poots and Paul Freeman and Governor Julius Agricola . Special
mention to treacherous , despised role played by Olga Kurylenko as
sadistic , revenger Etain . There are great action sequences including
the gory battle in woods and the final confrontation at the climax of
the film . Impeccable and evocative cinematography by Sam McCurdy .
Filmmaker and his director of photography Sam McCurdy spent about two
years discussing the look of the film before making it , one thing they
were adamant about was that it should be shot on location and nowhere
near a green screen. Magnificent and stirring musical score by Ilan
Eshkeri . The motion picture was compellingly directed by Neil Marshall
(Doomsday , Descent , Dog soldiers). Neil Marshall shot the film in
such hard conditions that some cast members suffered health problems .
One of Neil Marshall's influences was Walter Hill's The warriors (1979)
, this is why Hill is thanked in the end credits . Rating : Good, it's
a nice historical extravaganza well set in ancient Rome , done in great
scale and praised for its action sequences.
<|_=00=_|>
Centurion is directed by Neil Marshall who also wrote the screenplay.
It stars Dominic West, Michael Fassbender, Olga Kurylenko, Liam
Cunningham, Noel Clarke, Riz Ahmed & Imogen Poots.

Britain, 117 AD and the Romans are struggling to contain the Picts in
Caledonia. The Roman Governor sends in their best army, the Ninth
Legion. But they are victims of a trap and are forced to flee on foot
across the mountainous terrain with the vengeful Picts in hot pursuit.
Can they stay alive and make it to the border?

One thing you know you are going to get with a Neil Marshall film is
blood and guts. Be it squadies facing off against werewolves,
pot-holing babes grappling with hungry Gollum types, or a secret unit
sent in to quarantined Scotland to fend off cannibal punk rockers;
Marshall likes to pile on the grue. With his latest, Centurion, he
continues in this vein. Sadly that's about all there is as the talented
director appears to be getting a little carried away with himself and
forgetting to put some substance into his characters. What promises to
be a telling historical epic anti-war movie ends up being one long
chase movie. Only pausing for breath for intermittent blood letting and
the now obligatory love interest sub-plot. Oh it's fun, very much so,
and the visuals coupled with the excellently constructed fight
sequences don't waste a penny spent. But as a whole it just doesn't
work, it's more a collection of set pieces linked together by visceral
pleasures under the guise of being a take on a folklore story.

However, there is no denying the commitment to the genre from Marshall.
Centurion is often thrilling and brutal into the bargain, so as long as
you don't require any semblance of depth then it will surely entertain
you. While he has assembled a very admirable cast of British & Irish
thesps and put them thru a very tough shoot up in the Scottish hills.
The craft is there, from director and stars, just no decent script to
flesh it out. Oh and do we really need Roman soldiers saying the F word
to show us how hard they are? Coming after Doomsday flopped (personally
I think it's a whole bunch of fun), Marshall is at the crossroads of
his career. Once the indie darling of Britain he's been courted by
Hollywood and needs to make big decisions. You can only homage so much
in your favoured genres (here he nods to Gladiator, The Warriors and
even Zulu) before it gets to be boring. So is it time to let someone
else write now? Also if he must stay mainstream then he has to get the
budget to do the job properly; witness the digital blood used for the
first fight sequences, laughably bad and able to take you right out of
the film.

At times ridiculous and over the top, Centurion only works well as a
pure action flick. Which of course will find an audience. But director
and cast are better than this, as an effective story is bogged down by
lack of narrative heart that in turn is most likely hidden by arterial
blood. Lots of it. 5/10
