
I just saw G.I. Joe, and I must say that I actually enjoyed it. This is
NOT a masterpiece. This is a fun, Summer action flick. The so-called
professional critics who obviously miss that point do not deserve their
cushy jobs. The action is unbelievable, non-stop, breathless, and
requires a total suspension of disbelief. The critics that have a
problem with that should remember one thing. This is a movie based on a
cartoon that's sole purpose was to sell a set of toys to 5-12 year old
boys. Nothing more. Expecting "War and Peace" from this source material
shows a lack of insight and intelligence from most of the reviews that
I have read. If you like action films, you will enjoy this one. If you
want angst-ridden characters stopping every five minutes to discuss
their feelings... pull the stick out and move along to a sappy
low-budget romance; this isn't your kind of film.
<|_=00=_|>
I came in with low expectations and got even less. I'm kind of offended
that someone got paid to write this because its essentially a
big-budget movie made with a fan-fiction caliber script. The plot
riddled with holes, characters speak in clich√©s and the laws of physics
are completely ignored. The female characters are treated with the
action-movie standard sexism, and there are some subtle racist
undertones as well. Seriously, 12-year-old boys write text messages
that are more coherent than this script. The screen writers should use
their payday to refund the tickets of everyone who went to see this
movie.

I'm okay with going a movie just for the special effects, but even that
is sub-par. The martial arts choreography is good, and stunning in one
scene. The practical effects are believable, but the computer graphics
are mostly cartoonish and detract from the visual impact of the film,
so its hard to say go see it even if your standard for a good movie is
if they blow stuff up in new and interesting ways.

I did enjoy the sheer audacity of its failure. Surely the filmmakers
had watched even one movie before and knew they had a piece of Star
Wars/James Bond ripoff fan fiction on their hands and just tried to be
as bad as possible. This movie has a lot of laughs in it, although
probably not where the filmmakers intended.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film last night and luckily I had no high expectations.
As a fan of the G.I Joe toys when I was a kid (back then they where
called Action Force) I had a good idea of the characters and story
before hand. I am glad to say this film stayed true to most of the
original concepts with a few tweaks for the better here and there.

Go see this film if you want to see a fun action film full of special
effects and doesn't take itself too seriously.

Don't go and see this film if you are an uptight, unhappy film critic
that spends too much time highlighting plot holes and acting because
that's not what this film is about. It's more of a roller-coaster ride.
Fast, furious and just fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my god.

First of all, and most importantly, I have nothing against a FUN,
entertaining movie. But the only entertainment in the movie was how
painful it was at times.

Acting: 2/10 Terrible. A fellow moviegoer commented that "You know it
was a failure when one of the Wayans brothers was the best piece of
acting" It was bad. Dennis Quaid was plain boring. He looked like he
was having no fun.

Screenplay 1/10 HOW IN HOLY HELL DID THEY GET THIS APPROVED?!! All the
memorable lines were the most terrible ones that everyone in the
theater laughed at. It felt like a really bad TV show. The end of the
movie was WAY more epic than it was supposed to be for a summer action
blockbuster. Not intelligent, not funny, and not cohesive whatsoever.
The setting changed about every 15 minutes, going all over the world.
And brace yourself stereotypical, cheesy, predictable romance too.

Special Effects/Editing 3/10 Some of the obvious fully computer
rendered scenes looked worse than the old star wars flicks. (The polar
bear moment and the planes flying over the pyramids made many laugh)
Other scenes, such as the Paris action looked good. Way too many
explosions, even more than Michael Bay would want. The editing cut to
different shots faster than any action movie I've ever seen. There were
plenty of "What the hell just happened?" moments.

Its a big G.I BLOW Unfortunately.

For more info:
http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20090804/ap_en_ot/us_film_gi_joe
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I had almost every GI Joe toy growing up. I also watched the
cartoon. Being a young kid during the 80's was awesome. As far as I am
concerned, the toys and the cartoons from that era are the best.
However, after first seeing the preview for GI Joe, and seeing that
they now wore mech suits...... I had very low expectations for the
movie. Just figured they were trying yet another way to milk money off
of the remainder of 80's cartoons/ re-imaging.

However, I have to say, even though there was a little cheesiness to
it, I really enjoyed this movie. This movie is based off a
toy/cartoon/comic book. It isn't like other comics that could be deep,
or thought provoking. It was always mainly about action, cool weapons,
good guys and bad guys, getting caught and then escaping. This movie is
just that. A action movie from start to finish. Has enough of a
storyline to make it from beginning to end, but is mainly about the
action. It doesn't give you a lot of back story to the characters. You
do get a couple flashbacks, just so you know who people are, and how
they are connected. But this isn't really an origins movie. I think
some people were expecting some kind of epic movie experience. This
movie is not that! This is a popcorn/ summer action movie/ and a way to
relive some childhood memories for those of us who grew up watching the
cartoon, or playing with the toys.

For those of you complaining about plot holes, and/or unbelievable
science......... come on!!! What about the original cartoons was so
believable??? This is fantasy!!!

I will admit though, although I did like the movie, some of the special
effects were not that good. There were a few times during the movie
where I saw something that just looked too fake, and I was like ...
"that is just cheesy". But overall, it was a fun movie. Definitely not
one I regret going to see.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad expectations, movie even worse.

I went to see this movie because a friend of mine really wanted to go
there and I thought: why not, I didn't hate transformers 2 (although it
wasn't really good), and I had seen the trailer with the Eiffel Tower
scene which looks pretty amazing. The rest of the film was pretty
amazing too. But not amazing in a good way. I just couldn't believe how
bad it was. I am actually still amazed as hell. The story is so crappy
that I think I could write a thousand stories which are better. Here is
a series of 'highlights'. It all starts in the Middle Ages, where some
weapon maker is being punished for selling weapons to both sides. This
has almost nothing to do with the film except that the weapon maker is
an ancestor of a really bad guy in the movie. Then there is a transport
of very high tech rockets which are almost stolen by some guys with
really high tech weapons, but some other guys with high tech weapons
come to the rescue. (indeed, every weapon in the movie is high tech,
like year 3009 high tech). The rescue guys appear to be a special
forces team called G.I. Joe. The surviving guys from the transport
really like to join the team, but they need to be trained first. At the
end of the first day of training they are almost scoring highest in the
history of the team, so they are done. Right. Then the bad guys come in
and steal the rockets. This time they succeed so the G.I. Joes need to
get them back. This results in some really good action scenes including
the Eiffel Tower coming down. It all looks really realistic. But after
this it's only down the hill. The bad guys seem to have built a base
under the polar ice, the size of a little city. Somehow no one ever
noticed something happening there. Or everyone knew but just didn't
inform G.I. Joe. By the way: it actually wasn't really cold out there
somehow, because a lot of people didn't wear special clothes while
walking around on the ice and it didn't seem to bother them at all. Or
the actors just didn't know how to act like it was cold. That is
possible because none of the actors was really looking like he/she
cared a lot. Marlon Wayans was probably the least bad while he wasn't
even funny. I think that says enough. The polar base is destroyed after
a fight won by the good guys and because of the explosions the polar
ice sinks together with the base. Yes, dear readers, the ice sinks. So
alls well that ends well. oh, first one of the good guys needs to take
down some rockets the bad guys managed to shoot just before the base
was destroyed. Somehow the rockets can only be taken out by a
supersonic plane that can only be controlled by speaking Celtic, which
one of members of G.I.Joe happens to speak. So actually it's not really
a problem, I think. Maybe it is a problem, I don't know, but it just
doesn't make sense. Nothing in the whole script makes any sense. I
still don't believe it. I'm sorry guys, it's overwhelming me. I need to
stop writing or I'll start crying or worse. Just remember: don't watch
the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Please, take note that I rated this film 8 only because of it's value
as an action film, but that's exactly the point I came here to get
across. Everybody seems to have the same argument when they trash this
film.. "it's all effects and no brains or dramatic undertones". OK,
that is true, I've got to admit, but then again what kind of movie were
these people actually expecting to see? Huh?! 

G.I. Joe is as pure as an action film can possibly be and most
importantly, it doesn't pretend to be anything else. Look at the
poster. Check out the trailer. After those, were you perhaps waiting to
see an Ingmar Bergman film? IT'S G.I. JOE, for Christ's sake! And I
must say that in it's category, it isn't that bad. Sommers can direct
good action sequences (the pursuit on the streets of Paris is
stunning!) and although the film is obviously overblown with ridiculous
gadgets and over the top plot lines, it doesn't matter because Joe
succeeds in it's ONLY primary mission: to be entertaining. It's never
boring and it's the silly fun it was always going to be.

So in a nutshell.. if you want a serious film to watch, check out There
Will Be Blood or Doubt, but if you just want to forget for two hours
the mess your leaders have left your nation, nay, the *world* and just
have fun, check out this action film. Thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me first say that I knew absolutely nothing about the GI Joe
franchise except that they were (are?) toys. But that did not hinder me
from enjoying this movie.

What do you get if you mix a few parts James Bond, a few parts
Transformers and a few parts Star Wars? Well, you get G.I. Joe: The
Rise of Cobra! Basically, if you like the aforementioned movies you
will probably enjoy this one. Things explode constantly, shiny things
glimmer past the screen and hot chicks in tight outfits show up now and
then.

If you are the type who crave realism in your movies then do not - I
repeat, do not see this one. Realism does not even come within shooting
distance of this movie. But if you can enjoy a popcorn summer movie
then this is not a bad way to spend an afternoon.

And yes - there is a Wayans brother in this, but strangely enough, he
did not annoy me...
<|_=00=_|>
it was far far too long, the only good part was in Paris when they wore
the suits (basically from the TV trailers), an unusually silly film
that I would honestly recommend anyone to wait until it appears on DVD
or better to save your money and await T.V. in 3 years. I'm trying to
put into words how bad this film was and it's difficult... .
honestly... . I was just hoping it would end very soon and throughout
thought more about writing a comment on IMDb during the presentation as
opposed to trying my hardest to enjoy it, if you had to live your life
in Hell, this film would only have to do a Groundhog Day and you will
then know what true torture is. Sienna Miller is useless, Christopher
Eccleston from Salford gives the worst Scottish accent ever (I think he
must have watched Braveheart many times over and asked Mr Gibson for
some help). Dennis Quaid is... . terrible! it must be the worst part
he's ever played, by the looks of things on this film he came right out
the back end of Martin Short and planted himself in this massive black
hole of an enigma. the only thing that got me at the end was Snake Eyes
did not speak, wow that totally shook me up!
<|_=00=_|>
well, i went into the cinema with no expectations about the movie,
having never played with the toys as a kid, not really seen any of the
trailers or hype, and not read any of the reviews about it. To be
honest, the only reason i even went to see it is because i had already
seen time travellers wife. i was not disappointed, i had no
expectations and left the cinema after 2 hours wondering what on earth
i had just been watching. to anyone thinking about paying to see this
movie, save your money, buy a brightly coloured tin of paint, and a
brush, and watch that dry instead. it will be more entertaining, i
promise, and you will have a newly painted wall to show for the effort
too.

OK, so lets diagnose the movie. the beginning starts out o.k. but..
hang on... the beginning seems to be the same as the middle.. and the
end.. in fact, the entire movie is essentially just an especially long
sequence of fancy effects sequences.

so, it begins and some cool suited people beam down and steal some
warheads or something, and some other cool suited people come and try
to stop them but fail. there is lots of shooting and explosions and
fancy aeroplanes.

then, they all go off to some big base and talk about the stolen
weapons for a few minutes, and then there is more shooting and
explosions and cool vehicles.

then, they go off to Paris, apparently going after the warheads or
something and there is more cool suits and shooting and aeroplanes, and
you get the picture.

oh yeah, then, at the end, one of the guys turns to metal for some
reason.

ultimately, the problem with this movie is that its the sort of movie
you would get if you asked a 5 year old to script and direct it. its
similar to transformers, x-men, iron man etc except with the main
protagonists being entirely uninteresting characters with no
discernible personality traits other than being "good guy" or "bad
guy".

The acting and story are about as plastic as the toys the movie is
based on.
