
Selma tells the story of Martin Luther King as he organizes the
infamous marches during the height of the civil rights movement. To be
fair, Selma is a good film. It isn't a great film, but it is good.
David Oyelowo gives a great performance as MLK despite feeling like a
bit of a miscast but it isn't enough to sustain interest in his
character, which is shameful considering the great and brilliant man
that he is portraying. All in all, Oyelowo doesn't pack the punch that
we all want to see out of a MLK based film. At 122 minutes, this film
wallows in cheap drama surrounded by some serious heavyweight
performances, it creates an uneven balance between what is great and
what is mediocre. Actor Tim Roth does great work here in portraying the
ruthless and racist George Wallace. Roth delivers an evil performance
that will turn your stomach with every syllable that spews out of his
mouth. Roth does a great, outstanding job in making you hate him and I
definitely give him high praise in this film. Another stand out
performance is Carmen Ejogo, who portrays Coretta Scott King with such
honesty and velocity that she's hard to ignore. Ejogo's performance is
one that I continuously am thinking about even as I'm writing this. The
supporting cast is huge in this film, featuring Tom Wilkinson, Cuba
Gooding Jr, Giovanni Ribisi, Common and Oprah Winfrey. But just because
the star power is here, doesn't mean they're all good. Honestly, the
supporting cast outside of Tim Roth and Common are mediocre at best.
Oprah Winfrey delivers a performance that we've seen multiple times
over the course of her acting career. It is nothing new, especially
because it feels she is just rehashing the same performance from last
year's The Butler or from the much superior The Color Purple. Winfrey
serves as more of a distraction than anything else. Common is awesome
in this film in a small but crucial role to what Oyelowo's King wants
to achieve. Common proved before that he can act, but here, he proves
that he isn't just another rapper turned actor, he really delivers
force to this film with blunt and swift justice. The screenplay here is
Selma's downfall. Written by first time screenwriter, Paul Webb, it
really feels like Webb's first rodeo, making classic first time
mistakes between cheesy dialog and long drawn out scenes that, in
retrospect, serve little purpose to the film as a whole. Despite these
issues with the screenplay, it was in the most capable hands possible
for this film...Ava DuVernay. While there are major pacing issues with
the film, DuVernay directs this with a determined efficiency that oozes
out of every second of the film. While this can't save Selma from
falling casualty to a lot of clich√© scenes and cheesy dialog, she does
make up for all of what's wrong with the film with a handful of great
performances and awesome cinematography. Overall, Selma is nowhere near
the Oscar contender that I wanted it to be nor is it the biopic that a
man as great as Martin Luther King, Jr deserves but Selma is a decent
film that reminds me more of Spike Lee's "Malcolm X" or Lee Daniels'
"The Butler" rather than last year's instant classic "12 Years a
Slave". It's a good movie, nothing more, nothing less.
<|_=00=_|>
We had to see this movie after so many conflicting things were said
about it. I did not go in with high expectations and was surprised to
find that everything about the movie was excellent, from the casting,
costumes, and sets, to the filming, script, directing, lighting effects
and music. It all worked for me. I was moved and upset in all the right
places, from the shocking beginning to the triumphant, and also
foreboding end. The cutting in of actual film footage towards the end
was welcome and not overdone or trivialized. Kind of like, let's slip
the audience back into reality now. This was real. It really happened
and people kept on fighting and dying for civil rights in America after
the events of this movie. 

I loved it. It should have gotten more Academy Award nominations than
it did. Especially for the actors who played Martin and Coretta King. I
can't believe they are not even Amerian actors. Nicely done accents.
The actor who played LBJ was also very good, but being from Texas I was
not as convinced by his accent. If I was on the Board for the Academy
Awards I definitely would nominate this movie for Best Picture, Best
Director, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actress - at minimum.
<|_=00=_|>
Film critic Richard Roeper said it best. Selma is a film that provides
a history lesson, but doesn't feel like a history lecture. Not one bit. 

I foresee a bright future for the director Ava DuVernay and actor David
Oyelowo. For DuVernay's second or third effort, it's quite an
achievement what she manages to do with this film. For nearly fifteen
years she's been working in studio marketing and publicity and her film
speaks for itself. She directs the film with flare and keeps the film
emotionally grounded. Even though at times you think you know whats
coming, DuVernay keeps us at bay and also provides us with some neat
surprises. Also give Paul Webb some credit with his sharp screenplay. 

David Oyelowo truly embodies MLK. More often than not Selma tends to
focus on something not many people tend to expect in a movie about MLK.
The script showcases his doubts and insecurities. Oyelowo comes through
with a deeply felt and compelling performance. He also nails Dr. King's
speech patterns, voice, even his posture and shows that Dr. King has
his flaws, but is a compassionate person. I find it hard that anyone
will be able to take their eyes off him. What a performance. Shame that
it was overlooked by the Academy. 

Everyone in the cast brings their "A-game." I liked Carmen Ejogo as
Coretta Scott King, but I wanted just a little more of her character,
but she makes up the most of what she has. Oprah Winfrey is solid as
Annie Lee Cooper. She has a very substantial role and has a nice
subplot. Other particular standouts are Tom Wilkinson as President
Lyndon B. Johnson, Tim Roth as George Wallace. 

Selma takes itself very seriously, there isn't much humor to be found,
and any break from documenting its events are often downbeat character
moments. However DuVernay's talent is in full blaze. This film is very
heavy, but it always grabs your attention, often in the hands of
Oyelowo's performance. The March 7th, "Bloody Sunday" sequence is
brutal to watch, but DuVernay and cinematographer Bradford Young
achieve and deliver quite an intense and impactful set piece.
Literally, it hits you in the gut as we watch history forged in flesh
and blood.

I am still shocked that this film received so little recognition by the
Academy. Oyelowo and DuVernay should have been nominated at the very
least. I believe you can blame that to Paramount Pictures as I heard
that they did not deliver the screeners on time for the Academy voters.
It's a pity. 

By the time we arrive at the film's postscript, revealing the fates of
several people chronicled by Selma, it's almost impossible not to be
moved by their courage and sacrifice. Selma to me, is not just a
biopic, but rather a film that celebrates a community action through
the eyes of Martin Luther King Jr. This movie sadly, could not be more
relevant right now. 

9.3/10
<|_=00=_|>
The words I best describe this movie are "profound" and "intense." From
what I've learned since my school days, equal rights among race was a
very touchy subject when it came to American history.

David Oyelowo's portrayal of Martin Luther King Jr. was so spot-on that
I was immediately drawn in to see every detail of the film play out. I
was disturbed and further curious at the same time amongst every scene
that unfolded during the key moments of the film.

Basically, it featured how much King sacrificed and went through in the
1960s to maintain blacks rights to vote and eliminate segregation from
all states. I couldn't believe how much violent injustice and racial
discrimination were used to intimidate innocent people who were trying
to have the same rights like many in America.

Oprah Winfrey, Cuba Gooding Jr, and rapper-actor Common brought out
great performances as the individuals who stood up for what they truly
believe in and they wouldn't let hate stand in their way. Tom
Wilkinson's portrayal of President Lyndon B. Johnson was rather
physically uncanny and his scenes brought out the angst of what he had
to face at a time when violence was further escalating during the Civil
Rights Movement. Tim Roth as Governor George Wallace made me feel to
hate the man for his segregationist beliefs, but when confronted by
President Johnson himself, it just got real.

The juxtaposition of real-life archive footage in the movie gave a nice
touch to how very genuine these people of Selma endured plenty of
horrible confrontations. Whether these usually ended in violence or
even death, they just kept growing in numbers and overcome all who
stood against their true beliefs in racial equality.

My only nitpick was that of President Johnson's confrontations with
Martin Luther King himself. I've learned in the history books that
they've had their fair share of disagreements, but nothing this intense
as shown on screen. Nevertheless, it proved that being an American
President was no easy feat at a very difficult time. Overall, this is a
film that didn't require lengthy (moving) MLK speeches, instead it
focused on tense confrontations black people had to endure and how one
individual stood tall and fought back not with violence, but with
powerful words and strong beliefs. I applaud David Oyelowo and director
Ava DuVernay for providing a glimpse into how racism was overcome by
one profound man whose legacy still reverberates to this day.
<|_=00=_|>
Something, hard to define, is missing in this important film. This film
takes the viewer on a journey to Selma Alabama at the crucial time of
the Civil Rights movement that took place during the life of Martin
Luther King. It covers the important facts, describing clearly the sad
situation that people of color faced in trying to register to vote in
the segregated south. Even today, the efforts by white-dominated
election boards make it more and more difficult for people of color to
register and make their votes in the old south. The actor playing Dr.
King, in my view, is one of the serious problems this film has. He
seems to do a good job, but something serious is missing. The fact that
he is not an American is part of this problem. There is something
artificial about his acting. It is technically sound, yet lacks some
deeper presentation of the driven, inspiring personality that defined
Dr. King. Perhaps the problem is in the context. We don't really see
any sense of the history that lead to this confrontation. The beat down
on the bridge is, in my view, poorly filmed and does very little to
capture the full outrage, violence and terror of that event. Certainly
this is a difficult scene to set up and record, but Hollywood is very
well-equipped to do things like this. A lot has been made of the
so-called snubbing of Oprah in this film. She has a small part in the
beginning of the film, a scene that could have been played by anyone.
The scene where she tries to register to vote, while being questioned
and intimidated by a series of crazy questions from the voter registrar
is very helpful in telling us what this film is about. There is nothing
exceptional about her small part, so I see no cause at all for her to
imagine that for such a small part she should be nominated for an
Academy Award. The very idea seems really childish. A lot of facts were
left out, or glossed over; so an enormous opportunity seems to have
been lost. Selma is a good film about the civil rights movement, but
not a great film. It is flat, the lead actors are not very interesting
and the script, in particular, seems half- finished. It comes across as
a rough draft of an idea for a film rather than a finished product. I
was very disappointed in this film. In particular I did not like the
actors playing Doctor King or President Johnson. The photography, the
camera work, as well was not very good...flat and dry. Perhaps we all
have inflated expectations. This is such an important and dramatic
story; yet it was created and presented in a very un-inspired form with
to many missing parts. The part I absolutely did not like at all in any
way is the "song" that closes the film. The semi-rap composition was
very disrespectful and tried much to hard to be "relevant". And the
fact that it is one of the few points on which it was nominated by the
Academy, as "best song" is just sad.
<|_=00=_|>
Last year's "Pride" brilliantly demonstrated how far gay rights have
come in the UK in 30 years. Selma does an equally superb job in showing
how far racial equality has come in the US in 50 years.

The year is 1964 and racial tension is rife in the Southern states,
with attacks and murders of black citizens going unpunished by the
combination of a white-majority policing and legal system. Enter Martin
Luthor King (English actor David Oyelowo) at the point of receiving his
Nobel Peace prize. King insists at a Presidential level (with Tom
Wilkinson playing Lyndon Johnson) that black citizens be allowed
unfettered rights to vote in elections, with the aim of securing a more
just and balanced society. Looking for a suitable location to mount a
media-led stand, in an age before social networking and 'Arab-Springs',
King centres his attention on the Alabama town of Selma, mounting a
series of non-violent (at least on their side) protests and marches.
The local redneck police chief, Wilson Baker (David Dwyer), and the
state governor, George Wallis (Tim Roth), are not going to stand for
this and the tinder-box reaches ignition point during a march from
Selma to the state capital of Montgomery.

Nominated for the Oscar for Best Picture (but only that in the major
awards, so winning chances are probably near-zero), Selma is primarily
an excellent example of an ensemble cast that works particularly well
together. There are a wealth of outstanding performances: Tom
Wilkinson's Lyndon Johnson comes across as a surprisingly sympathetic
character (jerking me out of my natural Vietnam-coloured perception of
the politician); Oprah Winfrey (also a co-producer) provides a
text-book example of acting without acting, her expressions doing all
of the work; Dylan Baker (so fantastic in "The Good Wife") is
chillingly sinister as J. Edgar Hoover; English-born Carmen Ejogo plays
(extremely well) a similar role to Sienna Miller's in "American Sniper"
as the wife alienated by her husband's calling; and Giovanni Ribisi
("Saving Private Ryan", "Friends"), Cuba Gooding Jnr and (a bizarrely
uncredited) Martin Sheen turn up in great cameo performances.

But towering over all of this great acting is Oyelowo's performance
which is simply outstanding: every death and injury is etched on his
face. This is a Martin Luthor King that you can really believe in. I
would have personally bounced Bradley Cooper in the nomination list for
him, and it is astonishing (given his English background) that he was
also overlooked at the BAFTAs. He must be feeling pretty aggrieved
right now. Mr Oyelowo ¬ñ if you are reading this ¬ñ this critic thanks
you for an outstanding performance.

As a relative newcomer to direction, at least for a movie of this
scale, Ava Duvernay does a great job with some of the action scenes
(with particularly the shocking opening to the film showing enormous
style). Paul Webb (apparently with this as a screen writing debut ¬ñ ¬ñ
how on earth did he get THIS job?) does a creditable job, with lots of
memorable sound-bites that stick in the mind. Where the film ran into
soft mud for me however was in the personal scenes between the married
couple: they don't really provide enough insight into the stresses of
King's serial adultery, and the plotting becomes slow and dull¬Ö. I
personally lost interest in most of these scenes and was desperate for
the film to get back to the 'action' in Selma.

Also of note is the end title song ¬ñ "Glory" by John Legend and Common
(who also stars in the film) ¬ñ which is also nominated for an Oscar and
won the Golden Globe.

Both gay rights and racial equality undoubtedly still have much further
to go, but this does make you proud that as US and UK societies we have
come so far within my own lifetime. A recommended watch, particularly
for those with an interest in sociology and/or American history.

(If you enjoyed this review, please see the multi-media version
together with more reviews at bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your
email address to subscribe. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
Selma is a movie-of-the-week that didn't have to be. That an
African-American woman, Ava DuVernay, directed this story is surely
praiseworthy and a long time coming, but one wishes she'd realized the
picture with more subtle strokes. Yes, there are a handful of
beautifully poignant moments, some unspoken, but those are nearly
neutralized by scenes where the dialog is so stilted with the weight of
self-importance that ordinary folks sound like they're making speeches
during private conversations.

Visually, the desaturated sepia look of the picture confuses. Are we
watching a historical document, or are we present in the moment of 1965
with its arguably more vibrant palette? Superimposed FBI logbook
entries (as scene headers) cheapen the movie and bring to mind 1970s
televised crime drama. In these and other production decisions,
DuVernay undermines her own noble effort.

Nevertheless, the story does move, and the inevitable violence that
pushes forward the Voting Rights Act is brutal and affecting. The
film's best moments come from Henry G. Sanders as Cager Lee, and
between David Oyelowo and Tom Wilkinson as MLK and LBJ.
<|_=00=_|>
I went away from the screening feeling empowered to write an inspiring
review of, "Selma." I was deeply moved by the image of marchers from
diverse religions, black and white, standing together against injustice
and inhumanity. These people risked their lives for the rights we enjoy
today. And the themes are still so relevant in this time of racial
discord and disillusionment with those in power. 

Then there was the controversy around the accuracy of the film's
depiction of President Lyndon Johnson as a deterrent to the march at
Selma. Director Ava DuVernay explained that it was her artistic vision.
She suggested that people research it for themselves. After doing my
own research, I found that President Johnson's involvement was not
black and white. He was first and foremost a Southern politician. I
believe that, "Selma," is DuVernay's honest take on the events. Her
vision is to invite the audience into the spirit of the movement from
the point of view of its black protagonists. It was greater than just
one man. It was a community coming together to figure out the best way
to accomplish their civil rights objectives.

The movie shows how African-Americans were humiliated, threatened with
losing their jobs, beaten or even killed for attempting to vote in the
South. A group of civil rights activists, including Martin Luther King
(David Oyelowo), decide that the best course of action is to fight for
the unobstructed right to vote. King meets with President Johnson (Tom
Wilkinson) to request that he pass the Voting Rights Act. But the
president's goal is to keep a handle on the civil rights movement and
he is only interested in uncovering King's next course of action. He
claims that there is too much on his plate, including fighting poverty,
to pass a Voting Rights Act.

The activists decide to bring attention to the issue by holding a
non-violent demonstration in Selma, Alabama. As the protesters kneel
down before Sheriff Jim Clark, a police officer strikes an elderly man
who has difficulty kneeling. When two protesters intervene to protect
the man, the police respond with a vicious attack. The protesters flee,
but the policemen are unrelenting in their pursuit. One young man helps
his family escape into a restaurant, where they pretend to be eating.
The policemen track them down and shoot the young man in cold blood.
Spurred on by this tragedy, the community rallies together. They
organize a non-violent march from Selma.

When the peaceful marchers reach the end of a bridge, Sheriff Jim Clark
is waiting for them. He sics his armed state troopers on the marchers.
The nation watches, horrified, as the marchers are savagely beaten as
white citizens cheer. Martian Luther King sends out a call to his
fellow clergy to stand with him as they march again. Moved by the
inhumanity, they come to show their support. It is inspiring to see
black and white people from all religions joining arms and standing
together.

The reason I wanted to include the excerpt from his Montgomery speech
is that it still rings true today. Martin Luther King educates the
nation on how after the emancipation, the Southern aristocracy was
afraid of the freed slaves organizing with the poor whites for better
working conditions, so they passed the Jim Crow segregation laws to
separate them. The inherent message was no matter how low the white man
was, the blacks were lower. (Not unlike how our current politicians use
undocumented immigrants as scapegoats, blaming them for causing the
recession by taking the poor man's jobs.)

Witnessing the inhumane treatment of the blacks at the march in Selma
created more understanding of the plight of African Americans - which
allowed President Lyndon Johnson to finally pass the Voting Rights Act
in 1965. I hope witnessing these events will remind us of the difficult
battle that was waged to achieve these rights, so we won't allow them
to be taken away.

Movie blessings! Reel Inspiration dot blogspot dot com

I will be writing about Director Ava DuVernay in an upcoming Reel
Inspiration post on "Women Directors."
<|_=00=_|>
Was excited to see this movie after seeing coming attractions. The
movie was sad, but way to long. The movie was also boring. The acting
was good I must say. But that was it. The movie just dragged on and it
was hard not to fall asleep. I couldn't wait for it to end. I wasted my
money. I don't even believe it was truthful. I think Johnson supported
civil rights, but the movie didn't show it that way. I didn't want to
see because it was a Harpo production...but I gave in. I should have
listened to my instincts. I couldn't believe the ending rap song!!!! Do
they really expect people to believe this is why the idiots
demonstrating in Fergosun said "hands up don't shoot"???? We are not
stupid people, the truth about this movie needs to get out. That was a
sad period of time, but the movie was pathetic.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Ava DuVernay has mainly been criticized for her depiction of
President Johnson as being a reluctant or obstructionist political
actor. DuVernay was quoted as saying that she wasn't interested in
making a "white savior movie," perhaps implying that Johnson has been
given too much credit for his role in the civil rights movement.
DuVernay admits that not everything in "Selma" is historically
accurate, but she's entitled to fictionalize events under the rubric of
"dramatic license."

Indeed, the most compelling scenes in the film appear to be those
involving Johnson's political machinations. DuVernay would like to us
to believe that King and Johnson's relationship was much more
confrontational than it was. Joseph Califano Jr., a former LBJ top
assistant for domestic affairs, points to a recorded phone conversation
between King and LBJ on January 15, 1965 in which LBJ appeared to be
much more constructive than confrontational.

However, DuVernay attempted to justify her portrayal of LBJ as a
reluctant actor, citing a 2013 article by Louis Menand in "The New
Yorker." Menand maintained that Johnson was not proactive after
progress toward getting the Voting Rights Act passed had slowed:
"Johnson had the most ambitious legislative agenda of any President
since F.D.R. (his idol), and he explained to King that he was worried
that Southern opposition to more civil-rights legislation would drain
support from the War on Poverty and hold up bills on Medicare,
immigration reform, and aid to education. He asked King to wait. King
thought that if you waited for the right time for direct action (as
nonviolent protests were called) you would never act."

In DuVernay's best scene, LBJ finally "comes around" and tells off
George Wallace face to face. What's so great about this scene is how
LBJ attempts to appeal to Wallace on his level, even employing the "N"
word to show Wallace that he's just a "good old boy" at heart. But when
Wallace won't listen to reason, LBJ makes it clear that the days of the
Old South are numbered.

DuVernay undoubtedly would have liked Johnson to come around sooner and
attempts to slightly steal his thunder in his famous "We Shall
Overcome" speech by having him speak before a sparsely populated House
of Representatives (Bill Moyers insists that the chamber was completely
packed and LBJ's speech was "electric").

The rest of "Selma" is pretty much in part, a by the numbers
hagiography. DuVernay chose David Oyelowo, a British actor who starred
in her earlier feature, "Middle of Nowhere," to play Martin Luther King
Jr. Oyelowo is sadly miscast playing King as a grim-faced, stoic
preacher, failing to convey a shred of King's warmth or humanity. For
those who wish to see the definitive portrait of King, they can find it
by viewing the 1978 TV Miniseries: "King", starring the sensational
Paul Winfield. There is no comparison between the two performances and
one can find the entire Winfield miniseries on Youtube under the films
of Paul Winfield.

DuVernay is more successful when she sticks to straightforward
historical events. There's a compelling scene when Oprah Winfrey as
Annie Lee Cooper is rebuffed by a racist clerk when she attempts to
register to vote at the county courthouse. Coretta Scott King has
little to do in "Selma" so I suppose her meeting with a seemingly muted
Malcolm X proves to be her character's most exciting scene. The
revelation that King was still miffed by Malcolm X's earlier claim that
he was an "Uncle Tom," also proves to be quite fascinating. The two
confrontations with the racist police in Selma are competently done,
but I can't help once again recommending the Winfield miniseries, as
the police-protester clashes there, seem more realistic.

Except for a memorable confrontation where Andrew Young talks down a
vengeful crowd of dispirited King demonstrators, the "supporting
players" simply don't stand out. This is particularly evident when King
is greeted by his staff at the safe house in Selma (by the way, this is
about the only time you see Oyelowo smile during the entire movie).

Eschewing a "warts and all" approach, DuVernay puts her MLK on a
pedestal. There's little hint of the "family man" or charismatic
leader. DuVernay unfortunately was hampered (stymied if you will) by
the King family, who always demand financial remuneration whenever any
of his speeches are used in fictional portraits such as "Selma."
DuVernay paraphrased King's speeches, but little of it sounds spoken by
the great man!

Adolph Reed Jr. of the University of Pennsylvania implies that DuVernay
"inscribes a monolithic and trans-historical racism as the fundamental
obstacle confronting, and thus uniting, all black Americans." One can't
but help note that DuVernay believes that there's a continuity between
the protests of the civil rights era and the recent protests in
Ferguson. While the Civil Rights Era was a monumental and seminal part
of American history, to equate Martin Luther King's non-violent
movement with the events that occurred in Ferguson, seems absurd. To my
mind, MLK probably would have rolled over in his grave had he seen the
pathetic and self-destructive acts by those who were caught on camera
rioting in Ferguson.

Even though murders of blacks by police are statistically extremely
low, media exposure has convinced many people that this happens all the
time. While African-Americans were true victims of endemic racism until
the Civil Rights Movement of the 60s, the cries of victimhood today,
especially in regards to "police brutality." are not clear-cut. Some
police may be outwardly racist as well as "heavy-handed" or
"insensitive." But recent events have also proved that some African-
Americans intentionally provoke the police, leading to tragic
overreactions.
