
At its core, The Informant! is, by no means, an inherently funny story.
It involves international corporate conspiracies, corruption, deception
and betrayal. Yet somehow, Steven Soderbergh manages to turn Kurt
Eichenwald's book, which depicts the true story of former ADM employee
Mark Whitacre in the manner of John Grisham's best legal thrillers,
into a thoroughly entertaining, often very funny movie. This, of
course, is aided by Matt Damon's brilliant, spot-on portrayal of the
corporate executive-turned-FBI informant, as well as solid work by the
supporting cast.

When I first read Eichenwald's book after learning about this movie, I
was slightly skeptical. Economics and law are far from my forte.
However, what I found was a story so ridiculous and told in such a
compelling way that it was difficult to put the book down. Especially
for a nonfiction story, the characters felt so well-developed and so
three-dimensional that you cannot help but care immensely about them,
despite their flaws. And then, I heard that Soderbergh planned to make
the movie version into a dark comedy. Given some of the subject matter
and material involved, I was worried that the film would turn into too
much of a farce and would not give the real-life story and people the
proper respect.

To my utter relief, I was wrong. While some of the darker elements have
been left out and the film is undoubtedly lighter than its source
material, Soderbergh stayed true to reality, keeping the events mostly
accurate to what Eichenwald described in his book, and hence, to what
really happened; in fact, on a side note, after seeing the movie, the
real-life Mark Whitacre commented that the film was "very accurate",
which is a bit of a surprise considering Soderbergh made the decision
to not consult any of the people involved in the actual 1990s
investigation.

Oddly enough, while this probably sounds contradictory to the opening
statement of my review, much of the humor actually springs out of the
events and dialogue depicted in the book, almost all of which took
place in reality, rather than jokes or quips written by the
screenwriter or improvised by the director or actors. There are so many
hidden layers to the tale that, in retrospect, it is hard to not laugh
or at least gap in wonder at how it all unfolded. Of course, that is
not to say that Scott Z. Burns, who adapted Einchenwald's book for the
screen, did not do any work. The screenplay does an admirable job of
adhering to the true events with enough creativity, wit and originality
to prevent the film from seeming like just a retread of everything
Einchenwald accomplished in his narrative.

Also impressive is the cast. Naturally, as Mark Whitacre, Matt Damon
stands out. Even though he had not met the person he was portraying
before filming, he perfectly captures Whitacre's personality,
mannerisms and attitude, making him seem larger-than-life but at the
same time, completely and utterly human, while many other actors might
have made him too much of a caricature. The supporting cast does a fine
job as well and perhaps the most noteworthy of these actors are Scott
Bakula as the benignly professional FBI agent Brian Shepard and Melanie
Lynskey, who portrays Whitacre's devoted wife, Ginger, with a sort of
Mid-western bubbliness.

In typical Steven Soderbergh mode, the director adds a quirky, unique
tone to the movie. Although the whimsical, almost cartoonish score is
sometimes a bit intrusive, this quaint style effectively mirrors the
film's subtle and often ironic humor, and instead of being distracting,
the cinematography, complete with the intense lighting and vibrant
colors that make Soderbergh's films so distinctly his, helps emphasize
the movie's off-beat wackiness. From the opening credits, viewers are
immersed in the simple, charming vibe of small-town Illinois; this
ambiance is benefited by the fact that Soderbergh chose to film in
Decatur, the very town in which the real-life events occurred.
Everything feels authentic, from the hairstyles to the ADM office and
even the colorful array of ties sported by various cast members
throughout the movie.

Furthermore, by using voice-over narration, Soderbergh effectively
manages to enter the mind of Mark Whitacre, who is, to say the least,
an extremely fascinating personality. Partly thanks to Matt Damon's
nuanced performance, the audience learns to sympathize with - if not
root for - Mark, regardless of his moral ambiguity and questionable
decisions. Perhaps, more than anything else, this is because the movie
never makes fun of him, only at his nearly unbelievable situation. Not
once is he made out to be a completely villainous guy or a complete
hero; he is merely human.
<|_=00=_|>
Have you ever wanted to see a comedy about price fixing and corporate
embezzlement? If so, "The Informant" might be just the film you're
looking for. For some, however, "The Informant" might prove to be a
crushing bore. I'm somewhere in between but I'll get to that later.

"The Informant" tells the real life story of Mark Whitacre, the highest
ranked executive to ever turn whistleblower in U.S. history. It's based
on the book of the same name published in 2000 by journalist Kurt
Eichenwald. This is one of those instances where truth is, indeed,
stranger than fiction. A lot stranger. How does one make sense of a guy
who worked his way up the ladder of success at Archer Daniels Midland
in Decatur, Illinois, makes up a story about a Japanese saboteur
working at the company, hooks up with the FBI to blow the whistle on
price fixing that he and others had been involved in all around the
world, defrauds nearly $10 million from ADM in the years that he was
working undercover for the FBI, hopes to become CEO of ADM once the
case is over with, makes up stories about physical abuse against the
FBI agent he was working for, and then winds up spending more years in
jail than the corporate criminals he helped to nab? The film does offer
at least one explanation for Whitacre's strange behavior: bipolar
disorder. I'm not sure if that's enough.

Mark Whitacre is portrayed by Matt Damon in another one of those roles
that he seemed born to play. He's Hollywood's go-to actor for stories
about men on the run from the law, spies, heists, or corporate
swindling. It's a strange performance in a film filled with odd
creative decisions. For example, the film contains an ongoing
voice-over narration from Matt Damon as Whitacre that is just one
stupid non sequitur after another. The narration has nothing to do with
anything and only serves to highlight Whitacre's odd behavior. One
particular piece of narration, as I recall, involves Whitacre
discussing how he used to mispronounce the word centimeters. The humor
in these monologues is very random, to say the least. Either you go for
this sort of humor or you don't. I didn't but I must admit that many
people in the theater that I saw it in were laughing. I got the sense
that many of them would probably laugh at anything.

Another thing that bothered me about the film is the quirky and
eccentric score. "The Informant" contains one of the most bizarre
musical scores I've heard in recent cinema. The composer seemed to
spare no expense to remind the audience that we were, indeed, watching
a comedy. Violins, whistles, and horns are used throughout to the point
where I was reminded of a T.V. variety show where the orchestra would
provide the necessary comedic cues. Does it work in this film? I don't
think so. In fact, I was so distracted by it to the point where I was
taken out of the film completely. I had to fight to keep my interest in
what was going on up on the screen. This underscores my general problem
with "The Informant." It seemed to be trying too hard to be clever,
quirky, and funny. Whenever the odd voice-over narration showed up or
the music reared its head, it's as if the filmmakers were putting up a
big sign that said, "look at how funny this is!" Satire must be handled
right and this film's problem is with its tone. I was constantly taken
out of the film instead of being engaged by it.

There's still a lot to recommend about "The Informant," however. The
performances are mostly good (although Joel McHale seems oddly miscast
in the role of an FBI agent), the story has some surprising twists and
turns, and I did find myself laughing a bit towards the end at
Whitacre's odd behavior. It's competently directed by Steven Soderbergh
("Traffic," "Ocean's Eleven") who is no stranger to these kinds of
stories. But most of the film takes place in corporate boardrooms and
hotels and the screenplay is very "talky." And because it's based on a
true story, its dramatic potential is limited. I think this is the kind
of story I would rather read a book about instead of seeing a movie on
it. I don't think "The Informant" ultimately succeeds either at what it
set out to do: get inside the head of Mark Whitacre. Who was this man
really and why did he do the things he did? I never really got a
satisfactory answer and the film's quirky demeanor kept me at an
emotional distance.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading the opinions posted on this site it appears that a lot of
viewers came to this film with the expectation of big laughs throughout
and, when the film didn't delivered them, walked off in a huff moaning
about the film failing to deliver. In fairness to them I suspect that
their complaints may be valid based on trailers and marketing
suggesting this would be the case  the exclamation point in the title
probably didn't help either. So I'm glad then that I came to the film
without a great deal of knowledge about what the film was trying to be
other than it was a slightly comic version of a true case from the
1990's.

I am glad because this is what the film is  a comic take on a real
situation where the decision to do so as a light comedy appears to have
paid off. With Mark Whitacre as the main character, we follow him into
the case and we immediately start to get the impression that this guy
really doesn't have his head in the real world  like he doesn't
understand the consequences of anything he says and does, which perhaps
accounts for his rather cheerful outlook and easy personality. This is
true but the full extent of his actions are unveiled nicely across the
whole film  leaving me at times a little like the FBI lawyer during
the presentation from ADM's attorney, mouth open not quite believing
it.

It is not a hilarious movie by any means but the comic air makes it
easy to enjoy and the story is engaging and entertaining. Soderbergh
does slightly overdo the "wacky" feel to and he probably didn't need to
have as many recognisable faces from comedy in small roles, but he does
make it work. A big part of this reason is Matt Damon  showing that
while he may be a Hollywood action star now, he is very capable as a
character actor to. He does channel William H Macy from Fargo a little
bit in how he will try and make pathetic lies to get himself out of
trouble but I see this as a compliment because Macy is very good at
that sort of character performance. Damon nails the cheerful
self-delusion and his narration keeps us "on side" with him, making the
comic tone work. The support cast is perhaps a bit too full of
well-known faces but everyone is good, working again with the approach.

Overall The Informant! appears to be disliked mainly by those who
expected something that marketing led them to believe this was. Coming
to it on its own terms however this is an engaging story told with a
comic air that works and makes the film as entertaining as it is
interesting. Not hilarious and one could question if it is fair to
handle Whitacre's story in a light manner, but it does work and I
enjoyed it for what it was.
<|_=00=_|>
My problem with this movie is that Steven Soderbergh has tried to make
a funny movie about a situation that isn't inherently funny. The
discovery and dismantling of the Archer-Daniels-Midland price-fixing
scandal is a compelling story, but it isn't funny. Nor is ADM
executive/whistle-blower Mark Whitacre. He's bizarre, strange,
frustrating, and totally (in the immortal words of Ebby Calvin "Nuke"
LaLoush) "out there," which makes for some funny moments, but he isn't
funny. 

Matt Damon does a terrific job as Whitacre, and Melanie Lynskey is
believable and sympathetic as his wife, but there are gaps in the
portrayal of their relationship, and the movie suffers for it. What,
exactly, has he told her that's causing her to urge him to talk to the
FBI? And was she always aware of his mental problems? If not, when did
she start to realize the extent of his fabrications?

Also, what did the FBI agents really think about him? When did they
realize what a loose cannon they had? How did they decide to deal with
what they knew about him? The same questions could be asked about the
lawyers he eventually hires.

I wish Mr. Soderbergh had given us a straighter and more complete
story; I think it would have been a much better movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Professionally executed, well, that's the least you can say about a
Steven Soderbergh movie but, I felt, the whole thing had been done in a
rush without real conviction, merely to showcase the talents of a
friend, Matt Damon in this case. Terrific pace, involving and
surprising. That's more I can say about most movies but The Informant
with or without the exclamation mark left me kind of cold. I was far
too aware of the intention. Matt Damon is a good actor but his acting
is still too much of that, acting. I couldn't forget it was him, not
for a moment. No matter how much extra pounds he had put on, the
terrible hair do, the suits etc. It all felt like the dress rehearsal
for something that wasn't quite there yet. I longed for Alec Guinness
in that part. Visibly invisible. The story is so outrageous, with
bumbling, sentimental FBI agents that couldn't see through this man
until it was too late, is a pill hard to swallow and yet, we're told,
the whole thing it's true. I suppose that the Marvin Hamlisch score was
enough of a clue as to how to detect and read the tone of the movie but
I was confused by it. I also must say I was never bored so, I guess
that's a recommendation of sorts.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Steven Soderbergh is a genius with a
camera. Just admiring the shots, angles and movement of the camera in
his films is worth the price of admission. Here we get a fact-based
story from the book by Kurt Eichenwald showing us what happened when
Mark Whitacre became one of the most famous corporate whistle-blowers
of all time ... he exposed price-fixing at Archer Daniels Midland, the
ag-giant.

Matt Damon takes this quasi-caricature and turns him into a comedy act
along the lines of Jim Carrey in Liar, Liar. OK, I'll admit, there is
more subtlety here than in that one. Still, the voice-overs by Damon's
character provide the ramblings of a madman - an ADD, embezzling
madman.

There is so much comedy here that it is easy to forget what heinous
crimes the senior management of this company actually committed - and
how arrogant to think they could get away with it. This again shows
that many in the corporate world are the equals of even the most
corrupt politicians. Power and Greed are all-consuming.

While, I don't know the details of the real story, it was interesting
to watch Whitacre's interacting/playing with the FBI agents (Scott
Bacula and Joel McHale). They want to believe him and are actually
crushed when his game is exposed.

A real Soderbergh touch is the casting of both Smothers Brothers in
unrelated roles. Very nice. It is very difficult for me to believe that
someone as intelligent and shrewd as Whitacre could actually be so,
well, goofy. But it does add an entertainment element to the film. I
will say it is not at the level of far superior "The Insider" or even
"Catch Me if You Can", but it is quite watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
This will be short. I read the book when it first came out in 2000, and
recently watched the film, and now am rereading the book. The book is
dry and difficult, with three and half pages of involved people listed
at the very beginning. Who can keep track of all this? It is replete
with the taped conversations of the involved, all of the everything
that went on. And, it is tedious, if correct, in the extreme. Well,
what the film did, and bless it, was to simplify all of this stuff and
make it intelligible to us ordinary folks. And, it made a really nasty
story somewhat funny, because we know within the first half hour or so
that there is something hinky about this Whitacre character. Oh boy, is
there, but I won't write a spoiler here. There's no reason to. Even in
the book, the FBI guys were wondering about Whitacre. Why did he turn
traitor to his own company? What did he have to gain? The film is
extremely well done, an amazingly good adaptation of a book which would
probably have you snoozing after fifteen minutes. Matt Damon really
shows his stuff in this one, even developing a modest middle age belly
to complete the image of the nerdy scientist. 

Watch it, laugh at it, and remember: this is a true story about why
most of the people in America are poor and how their losses are paying
for the riches of companies which have decided that "the customer is
the enemy".
<|_=00=_|>
I suppose I will always find something to like in a Soderbergh movie.
The real joy is in never knowing just what that will be. Even in his
most mainstream projects he is exploring some new skill. Here it is the
notion of narration.

I'll have to see this a second time with a DVD stop button to be able
to fully catalog all the various modes that our filmmaker skips
seamlessly through. The main device he weaves these modes around is the
spine of the untrusted narrator. We have all sorts of layers and nodes
of deception with the only ones we can really trust being the guys
usually are the bottom of the garbage bin: the massive greedy company. 

We have this fellow being dishonest to everyone, including himself. We
have no idea where the line is that he actually believes and we hear
only from him. Some of the internal dialog is hypnotizing: we are
lulled into accepting it because so much of it is appealingly funny. It
is a great trick of misdirection, allowing us to associate with this
slippery reality. 

Folded into this is are the watchers, nominally the FBI, then various
lawyers and the wife, but us of course, punctuated by a video at the
end directly to us (with the FBI behind a mirror). 

A second surprise awaited me beyond the Soderbergh stretching. Matt
Damon finally does something impressive. He is truly something worth
watching here. I never would have guessed. I never would have believed.
In fact, this wouldn't have worked at all, this suspended belief within
the story, if he had not so believably become the character.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this might be Damons best performance since the Good Will
Hunting movie. At least it felt to me like that. And I'm not saying
that to put movies like Bourne or Oceans down, they are a lot of fun
(on different levels), but performance wise he didn't have to stretch
that many "muscles" (action wise on the other hand, he obviously had
to, at least with the Bourne Trilogy).

The story is pretty simple and the anti "Hero" is quite ordinary. Which
might make it less appealing to a large audience, but it wasn't aimed
to crack the box office. Soderbergh captures a weird feeling in this
movie, that leaves you with a weird taste at the end. Of course, you
could argue, that the movie shows too little of Damons wife, maybe even
too little of his employer. But as it is, it's a pretty solid and
greatly edited work.

Even the voice over, which seems and is completely out of place, works
really good in this movie. I guess even the Team America members would
change their opinion of "Matt Damon" after watching this one. Give it a
try, but don't expect laugh out loud comedy (not the ordinary kind that
is).
<|_=00=_|>
STAR RATING: ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning
** Sunday Night * Monday Morning 

The true story of Mark Whitacre (Matt Damon) who worked for a giant
firm that produced lysine chemicals in products to be consumed by
humans. Whitacre maintained a degree of honesty and integrity to his
work, but when he uncovered evidence of price fixing with rival foreign
companies, he turned undercover informant for the FBI...but, as events
rolled on, it would appear he may have known a bit more about what was
going on himself than he was letting on.

Playing like a lighter version of 1999's The Insider, Steven
Soderbergh's dramatization of corporate corruption in the early 90s is
amusingly on edge through-out, with Damon's constant muted voice-overs
gently guiding us along this tale of principles and ethics clashing
with corporate greed and deception. Damon is affable enough in the lead
role (certainly hard to think of any actor who could have done it
better) and the story is pretty relevant and dynamic. There's nothing
about it that really makes it unforgettable or brilliant, but it's
certainly worth a bit of your time. ***
