
"Step Up 3D" maybe the best 3D movie since "Avatar". You laugh. For one
thing "Step Up 3D" was filmed in 3Dno post production enhancement.
Seeing amazing street dancing is visually stunning in 3D. One
distinguishing sequence has Moose (Adam G. Sevani) splashing his moves
on the water flooded stage. In another electrifying sequence the dance
troop Pirates move in unison in LED lit costumes. One sees "Step Up 3D"
for the 3Dentirely.

No ground breaking storytelling here. Amy Anderson and Emily Meyer's
screenplay barely eclipses perfunctory. This is the coming of age story
of misunderstood young people overcoming the odds to compete in the
First Annual World Dance Jam. The dialogue is awful. We endure the
speaking interludes throughout the movie to get to the dancing, which
is spectacular. Director Jon Chu has a dramatic sense of line and chaos
with a provocative and flourishing visual style.

The dancing is spectacular. Jon Chu has assembled some of the best
street dancers in the world. The Santiago Twin (spirited Martin and
Facundo Lombard) just kill in the World Dance Jam. Chadd Smith as Vlad,
whose specialty is the Robot dance, is absolutely awesomein 3D the
effect is mesmerizing. Sharni Vinson, who plays stunningly beautiful
and ripped nomad street dancer Natalie, is elevation and grace
combined. The capoeira practice she performs with Luke (cool and
handsome Rick Malambri) is high velocity precision. Chu is also a
student of the classic musical. He films an homage to "Singing in the
Rain" in a single take with Moose and his almost girlfriend Camile
(Alyson Stoner) as they duet down the street. Chu also provides such
visual texture and touch in the World Dance Jam itself mixing the Wushu
influenced Asian street dancers along with the breakers and the
poppers.

Even with the corny dialogue and lame story lines, the opening sequence
gets it right. Luke (Malambri) runs a shelter and dance studio for down
and out street dancers- his parents' legacy. Luke's passion is
film-making. As the movie opens we see Luke film interviews with his
dancers. This wonderfully captures that dancers are never more present
to life or have more joy than when they are dancing. Authentic passion
transcends the written words, and is inspired. In a roundabout way
"Step Up 3D" is at its best when it is in the moment in 3D, Otherwise,
we are left with that Moose is too stupid, albeit a brilliant
engineering student, to see that Camile is in love with him, and that
he really loves her. Mysterious Natalie may not be who she appears, and
that she and Luke are falling for each other. And does anyone really
take a train to Los Angeles from New York? 

We kind of know the answers to these questions. So what there is to do
is enjoy the dancing.
<|_=00=_|>
Dancing movies are hilarious. Stop taking them seriously. People watch
bad horror movies all the time and laugh their asses off, yet they
don't seem to understand that they can, and should, do the same thing
with dance. Step Up 2 the Streets is absolutely hilarious. Step Up 3D
just takes the dancing and bland story of Step Up 2, mixes it with the
plot of Breakin' 2: Electric Boogaloo and sprinkles a bit of 3D acid
into the mix. Entire theatres should be breaking out into uproarious
laughter, both during and in between the dance scenes.

This is a comedic gold mine.

If you want to watch it for good dancing, then you get that too, as a
bonus. All of these 1/10 reviewers need to grow a sense of humour. This
movie is only boring for a few minutes. The rest is just epic.

9.5/10 rounded up to a 10.

Learn to have fun. You'll live longer.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, first of all, remember folks, that dancers aren't actors. And
apparently no one was a writer either because the script sounded like
it was written in about 10 minutes, BUT, this movie was thoroughly
entertaining anyway.

Me and my hip hoppers saw this movie after dance class and we were NOT
disappointed! When we weren't watching the mesmerizing dance routines,
we were laughing out loud at the horribly cheesy dialogue and plot.

The best part of the movie,(besides the dancing), is the character
Moose. He is our main protagonist and is the most believable in regards
to acting and character development. He and his BFF have a more
convincing romantic storyline than their two older beautiful people
counterparts.

If you can kick back, relax, and enjoy the dancing and not take this
movie too seriously, you will love it! Especially if you are a dancer.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, ask yourself why would you watch Step Up 3D? Good acting,
deep plot, memorable dialogue? If you are going for any of the above,
don't. Step Up 3D is all about dancing, it offers you sick moves and
superb visuals. And well, in my point of view, even though the plot has
some holes and is predictable, it is actually works well enough.

The beginning scene gets it moving. Why do you dance? To express.
Because we can be someone amazing when we move. So, in the movie we got
astonishing dancers, outstanding choreography and so much color and
visuals that its really a great watch, especially in 3D. And 3D works
very well for this film. Just... when you see the choreography, how can
you not love the movie? Its just sick. Some of the scenes are
brilliant, watch out for the one briefly seen in the trailer, when
Moose and Camille are dancing through the city. That scene steals the
show.

Well, Moose, played by Adam G. Sevani, is the best character in the
movie. He is believable, can act and is the only one with any character
development. He also has pretty good charisma that makes him
interesting to watch, and is quite funny. We also have some of the best
(and i really mean the best) dancers from all around the world,
starting with bboys and finishing with the finalists of SYTYCD. And all
the other ones. And, as a dancer, i had to pick up my dropped jaw from
the floor after the movie. Did i mention awesome dancing?

So, this movie is made for specific audience and as for it, isn't for
everyone. Dancers are going to love this. We'll always have those who
will bash this movie and see it as the worst ever made, but they're
just haters. If you're up for some insanity on the dancefloor,
colorness and excitement, watch Step Up 3D. It will blow your mind off,
and take the roof with it. I like.
<|_=00=_|>
i watched this film yesterday with the girlfriend, and i didn't have
high hopes for the film at all, I'm not really into dance/romance
movies. But during the film, with each minute i became more and more in
love with it. I mean WOW!! step up 3D delivers like no other dance
movie out there. This movie was amazing! the 3D was incredible, the
dancing was out of this world, the songs on the film were amazing! my
and my girlfriend were singing along to them, but the storyline lacked
abit, apart from the storyline, Justin Chi has made the perfect dance
film! I'm even debating going to see this movie again next week!
although the last too step up movies lacked character, the latest
instalment in the franchise definitely gives the trilogy the buzz that
it needs! i rate this movie 9/10, it would of been 10/10 if the
storyline wasn't lacking abit! even if you hate dance movies this movie
in definitely worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that I am a fan of the series. The dancing in the first
movie was great, but the subsequent films has had amazing numbers. I
could see why Chu would want to do the film in 3D. 3D is the "it" thing
these days, and the dance sequences were enhanced by the technology.
That being said, 90% of the film didn't require 3D. I hate wearing the
glasses unless I'm on a ride at Disney. I feel like a lot of the films
that employ 3D technology also release a 2D version (a good thing for
people like me). I wish Step Up 3D would have given the option, even if
the name denotes the extra dimension. As for the cast, I was
disappointed in the male lead but not because of his acting or looks.
He is beautiful and can act. However, he apparently can't dance. I felt
like if he was going to stand on the sidelines during battles or have
obvious doubles they could have played him even heavier as the
"director". Moose and Camille pulled off what could have been an
impossibility: tying the first and second film together with the third
in a realistic manner. Unlike Channing Tatum's cameo to tie the first
and second films together, making Moose and Camille besties going to
college together was brilliant. The soundtrack is great (even though
some of the songs you'll recognized from other recent shows: Glee and
Sex and the City). All in all, I enjoyed the movie and left the theater
wanting to dance. The film (like any self- respecting franchise) leaves
it wide open for a fourth. A word of advice: make like The Fast and the
Furious and wait 'til you're missed and can get the entire cast
together to go for #4.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've seen one break-dance flick, then let's be frank, you've seen
them all. The blue print is the same each and every time, lots of
awesome dance sequences with gap-filling scenes of excruciating acting,
non-existent plot and direlogue that wouldn't feel out of place in a
Z-grade horror film. With those standards in mind, the most effective
entries into this genre do two very simple things: maximise the
eye-boggling dance routines and minimise the yawn-inducing guff that
fills the rest of the runtime.

Step Up 3D only gets half of the above equation right. An unnecessary
amount of time is wasted on boring dross like predictable plot twists
and deep and meaningful (read: long and laughable) conversations about
how profoundly dancing can affect people. Honestly, who cares? From the
moment the main character tells his new BFF that "he's BFAB, born from
a beatbox" in the first ten minutes, all further dialogue should've
been ceased immediately. I'm serious, they should've let the music and
moves do the talking for the remaining 90 minutes. That way our
gag-reflex wouldn't have been tested by Vinson (ex-Home and Away star)
and Malambri's acting.

When the bodies are twirling, contorting, flinging, jumping, smashing
or moving like a robot the film unsurprisingly finds its legs.
Choreographed with flair and panache, the set-pieces incorporate the 3D
technology decently enough by having dancers approach the camera with
fast, whippy hand movements, however the depth of the stage was
employed more successfully by its British counterpart StreetDance 3D.
Regardless, there are still a handful of entertaining dance-offs that
impress on varying levels.

Replete with the freshest hip-hop tunes and sporadic inventiveness 
mainly in the form of illuminated costumes  this trilogy-closer may
tickle your fancy, but that is wholly reliant on whether you're BFAB or
not.

2.5 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 -
Classic)
<|_=00=_|>
STEP UP 3D  CATCH IT ( B ) Step Up 3D has the most mind blowing and
jaw dropping dancing. The music and dance performances of the movie are
par excellence. All the dances are so fun to watch but Obviously the
End Dance wins it all, it was Super Fantastic. The only thing Step up
3D lacked big time is its acting department, obviously all them can
dance exceptionally well but their acting was quite poor except for
Adam G.Sevani Aka. Moss and Alyson Stoner Aka. Cam. Adam and Alyson has
prior acting experience so they were great along with their dancing.
Adam and Alyson's road dance was one of the sweetest dance performance
I've ever seen. Stunning looking Sharni Vinson danced really well and
in some scenes she acted quite well. Gorgeous Boy Rick Malambri was the
weakest Actor and Dancer among them all. His dancing with Sharni Vinson
was great but in whole group he was the weakest link. Sadly, he had no
expressions on his face whether he is serious, sad, happy or funny, he
had the same expressions except when he Smiles. I think he got this job
because of his looks because he is a terrible actor. One thing besides
his good looks saved him was his awesome chemistry with Sharni Vinson.
All the other dancers were great in dancing and terrible in acting.
Overall its highly enjoyable because of its Incredible dance routines
so, if we forget the terrible acting by most of them, its pretty good.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure the story is probably the weakest from the 3, but the dancing is
the most entertaining to watch from the 3 movies as well. And the 3D
aspects of the film is done pretty well and was a lot of fun to watch.
The past two movies is better when it comes to the plot, but still
boring and I couldn't careless about it in this. Since it is mostly
ridiculous, but it's just really ridiculous this time around. But if
you want to see a dance flick with cool dancing in it, go check this
movie out. I am also really glad Moose makes a comeback in this, the
kid is one cool nerd and the kid can really freaking dance. Overall
although the plot is laughably ridiculous, the dancing and the 3D
aspects of it was a ton of fun to watch. Would have been even more
entertaining if it had more dancing competitions in it.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly believe there was no effort put into the story at all. Every
single cliché the writers could possibly think up was in this, the
rivalry the betrayal, the break up only to make up later and end up
together, the wise friend who seems to know everything but is a
background character through most of the film even the closing of the
studio which required money to re open does landing the crew in a final
dance off against their rivals. The only thing I enjoyed from this
movie was the dancing, all the fancy moves, and the culture impressed
me, but aside from that this movie was garbage. I compare this to"You
Got Served" which received a much lower score on IMDb than this, though
it shared an extremely similar story, though it portrayed a lot more
emotion, and overall focused more on the characters than the dancing.
All in all, if you're a dance movie fan, who really doesn't care for
story, by all means check this out, if you're a movie lover, then this
movie probably won't make you smile so skip it.
