
I was so looking forward to this movie and was so sad that I was
disappointed it wasn't quite up to expectations. I did not read the
book but I saw the trailer for this a few months back and Beauty and
the Beast had always been my favourite Disney movie. A modern
retelling, good-looking leads, gorgeous cinematography and Neil Patrick
Harris? Perfect ingredient for a good old romance movie, I'd say.

But I was wrong. The movie even started on the wrong foot, with Alex
Pettyfer's dismal acting. Maybe he's been doing so many action movies
that putting on the skin of a romantic lead was a little hard. His
portrayal of the vain, selfish and mean lead was unconvincing at best.
Now, the best part of Beast's transformation was the coming-of-age of
the spoiled 'prince' into a rage-filled beast and finally into a
selfless man transformed by love. None of that were evident in Kyle
Kingson. He was a brat, then a whiny stalker, and finally an emo dude.

Vanessa Hudgens also gave a cringe-worthy performance. She was so flat
and void of personality that it was painful to watch. Beside the bad
acting, the plot was also a little draggy, lacking in climax and real
emotion. You don't feel drawn to the characters, you don't feel
convinced by the emotions and you will cringe at the incredibly cheesy
lines. In fact, my sister and I kept mumbling 'Don't say it! Don't say
it!" throughout the movie because a clich√©d one-liner is always around
the corner.

The one saving grace was Neil Patrick Harris, but that's only because
he brought his 'Barney Stinson' persona into the movie. Though I
absolutely adore Barney, it would be nice to see NPH bring something
different to the plate. 

All in all, I'd say watch this movie if you're looking for style, but
don't go looking for substance. There's not much to be had.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't planning on seeing this movie, but after a group of
girlfriends convinced me it would be a good chick flick, I caved.

Going into this movie, I haven't read the book, just seen the Disney
movie quite a few times. I was expecting this tragic love story, just
like the original movie, with plenty of tear-jerking moments, but it
just wasn't there, in terms of script and acting.

The plot was rushed, and therefore the audience didn't have enough time
to appreciate the story line, even though we all know it like the back
of our hands.

Our Beast, Kyle, was more of a brat than a beast, and even after
transforming, I was expecting this monster of rage, and he just whined
and moaned and was more comedic than anything else.

Lindy, who was our Beauty, really only stood as a placeholder for a
gorgeous woman. Vanessa Hudgens is a gorgeous girl, but that's really
all she is. Her acting is very flat, with one moment standing out in
particular. She's just been told some devastating news over the phone
in a conversation that lasts all of 10 seconds. Acting 101: Acting is
the reality of doing, she just pretended, and there's no two ways about
it. I didn't see a role model to young girls in her, I just saw a
pretty face.

However, there were some exceptions, Neil Patrick Harris was impeccable
with his comedic timing, and really saved this movie from otherwise
getting a 1 star. Mary Kate Olsen also pleasantly surprised me, as she
was good at convincing me she was this evil enchantress. However, for
her entire time in the movie, she looks like a haute couture model
rather than this disgusting ugly creature.

Overall, it's not terrible, just not that good. Neil Patrick Harris is
reason enough alone to see this movie, and to get a look into what some
consider "21st Century Beauty and the Beast."
<|_=00=_|>
The plot was great, being though it was the modern take on beauty and
the beast. However, the script was terrible. Everything seemed so
rushed.

Kyle wasn't even arrogant long enough. He made one or two rude comments
and next thing you know he turned beastly. In fact I didn't realize he
was being rude until like seconds to minutes later. That's how cheesy
his lines were. And on top of that, he started falling in love with her
before he was turned beastly which totally contradicts the whole point
of him being that way. He's supposed to be ugly inside and out.

Liddy or, whatever her name is, wasn't turned off by him like Belle was
in the animated version. She couldn't stand him whereas Liddy liked him
from the beginning. She called him a jerk once but that didn't even
sound convincing. So corny. The fight scene where Kyle calls himself
saving her was so bad I was nearly in tears from laughing. What a shame
because the concept of the movie was so awesome and this could've been
a really great movie.

Bottom line, it was a waste of money, gas and time. I could've waited
until this came out on Netflix. Sorry but this movie was just terrible!
<|_=00=_|>
Didn't knew it's based on a novel before I saw the movie, and didn't
know it's such a teen movie - pretty faces, college scenes - it makes
me relate to Twilight, the storyline starts with how perfect the
leading boy looks and leading girl seems to be mediocre only.

I didn't expect anything before the movie, I just saw the poster and
found it interesting, thought it'd be some kind of a romance to have a
girl falling in love with such a scar-faced man. 

But the story didn't convince me how the beast and the beauty fall in
love. To me, it just seems to be "written" in such way, Kyle and Lindy
are just performing their roles as written in the screenplay, with not
much emotions involved in acting. I don't see Kyle getting much upset
turning from such flawless face (as he thought) to a seriously
scar-faced; and Lindy not being surprised when she saw Kyle's face - as
Hunter, a total stranger - this just doesn't quite make sense. I think
the acting plays an important role in terms of touching audience's
emotions and connection to the movie, but the casts in Beastly fail in
such area. The leading casts maybe good with simple teen love story,
but the storyline in Beastly seems to be a heavy topic for them to
handle, so now it just appears to be a shallow love movie with no
sentiments triggered.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited to see this movie after hearing about it. I loved the
book and was extremely excited for the movie. That movie was so far
from the book they could have renamed it. The movie had strong
characters but a weak plot and barely any climax. Compared to the book,
that was a complete butchering of the story. They cut out some
extremely important events within the book. The ending was completely
ruined. It was supposed to be full of suspense and adventure,
excitement and nerve. The movies ending was dull and pointless. It was
completely changed from the events that happened to the location of the
events. THE NAMES IN THE MOVIE WEREN'T EVEN RIGHT!! I was disappointed.
Basing it an a movie stand point, and not compared to the book, it was
okay. Boring and cute. A basic romance. Nothing to special. Definitely
not something I would see again. I was extremely disappointed with this
movie. I would have thought it would have been better since they
postponed the release date for half a year. If you ask me, wait for the
DVD and don't waste your money.
<|_=00=_|>
'Beastly' was nothing more than a series of random and poorly collected
scenes. There was very little original style with flimsy one
dimensional characters. I liked the concept and was looking forward to
a modern telling of the story. What I got was a empty shell of a story
that had absolutely no substance.

From beginning to end there was nothing compelling or interesting about
the characters. You never cared about what happened because you never
care about the characters. The acting is flat and the writing is
without direction.

When the end finally arrives you aren't surprised by what happens. The
story had no beginning, middle and end. It just had a start and stop.
It's like a boring person telling you a story. You can tell it might be
interesting, if only you were being told by someone with a little skill
and personality. I just hope the book isn't this bad.
<|_=00=_|>
For months I've wanted to see this movie and when it was all said and
done I couldn't have been more disappointed! BEASTLY is a slow moving,
almost boring film with very few mentionable moments.There is no real
chemistry between the actors really. Throughout the entire film I hoped
for a spark, a great moment or something...but there really were none.
My husband actually started snoring next to me at one point. I have
read that this films release had been pushed back twice before CBS
finally gave the green light. After seeing it, I now understand the
reasons behind it. Disney's Beauty and the Beast was far more
interesting and much more entertaining than this version. I would say
over all it is a movie that should be watched on a rainy afternoon
after it's been released on DVD. As a side note, the Soundtrack is
worth mentioning and quite possibly one of the better parts of the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Buckeston Academy High School, the wealthy, arrogant, narcissist
and bigot Kyle Kingson (Alex Pettyfer) is a student that does not
respect his classmates. When Kyle is elected representative of the
students, he plays a prank with the outcast Kendra (Mary-Kate Olsen)
that has the fame of being a witch. He invites her to a party and
humiliates her in front of their classmates. However, Kendra curses him
with a spell that makes Kyle as ugly as his soul. Further, she tells
that if he does not find anyone who loves him within a year, he will be
doomed to that appearance forever. 

When Kyle's father Rob Kingson (Peter Krause) sees him, he takes Kyle
to specialists but the doctors do not know what to do. So Rob hides
Kyle in an apartment with a maid and a blind tutor. When Kyle sees his
mate Lindy (Vanessa Hudgens) on the streets, he saves her from a
dangerous drug dealer and he brings her to his apartment to protect
her. Now his only hope is that Lindy falls in love with him.

"Beastly" is a contemporary teen-version of "The Beauty and the Beast".
The ridiculous make-up on Alex Pettyfer is the weakest part of the
film. Vanessa Hudgens is not a beautiful actress and is very weak for
the lead role. Further, she does not show any chemistry with Alex
Pettyfer. The plot is weird and the way that Lindy is forced to move to
the Hunter's apartment through blackmail of her father does not
convince. 

The plot has many flaws but "Beastly" is neither the best nor the worst
romance recently released and there are many unfair reviews in IMDb.
Despite the flaws, this film actually entertains on DVD. My vote is
five.

Title (Brazil): "A Fera" ("The Beast")
<|_=00=_|>
"If he could learn to love another, and earn her love in return by the
time the last petal fell, then the spell would be broken. If not, he
would be doomed to remain a beast for all time." Disney's Beauty and
the Beast 

After the Twilight Series, I am Number Four, and now Beastly, I'm not
sure I ever want to take that Hot Tub Time Machine back to those
love-weary days. I mean, are these kids getting any love these days, or
is their passion filtering through cell phones as their fingers do the
walking rather than the stroking? Beastly once again shows teen longing
relieved by the workings of magic, not old-fashioned getting-to-know
you stuff their grandparents labored through.

Kyle (Alex Pettyfer straight from his boring turn as a hunk with little
affect in I am Number Four) learns from his distant dad that looks are
what count in life. As he imputes this "aggressively-unattractive"
characterization to Goth Kendra (Mary-Kate Olsen), she condemns him to
being all he hates, largely ugly, until someone says "I love you" to
him.

Beauty waiting to be rescued, Lindy (Vanessa Hudgens), falls into the
protective custody of now ugly Beast, Hunter (Kyle). And there you have
Beauty and the Beast revived for 2011 teens. Dramatically the audience
can anticipate every outcome, not just because of the adapted classic's
well-worn story, but because the dialogue is pedestrian enough to
telescope it all anyway.

The blind tutor, Will (Neil Patrick Harris), has some wry commentary,
suited to the off-beat characters Harris usually plays, that saves this
adolescent sentimental claptrap from my damnation. I get it that beauty
is from within; I just don't buy why all the teens should be hot when
most in real life are pimpled and gawky. It's too bad some wizardry
couldn't save Beastly from mediocrity¬óbut then I would need
resuscitation that I finally had a teen weeper worthy of an audience
smarter than filmmakers give them credit.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've read the book Beastly, you're probably pretty psyched about
the new movie adaptation that just came out. For those of you who
haven't read it, it's basically a modern version of Beauty and the
Beast about a selfish teenage boy named Kyle who cares only about his
looks, and after blowing off his date to the dance, a witch named
Kendra, gets transformed by Kendra into a hideous beast and is forced
to live isolated from the world, with only his humorous blind teacher
and loving housekeeper for company. The catch to the spell is that Kyle
can have his looks back if he can get a girl to fall in love with him
and "see him for who he truly is" within a year. Kyle thinks this task
impossible, but then fate steps in and leads him to Lindy, a somewhat
awkward, but very intelligent girl. Well, this movie is one of many
that did not stay true to the book very well, but was still enjoyable
for anyone who didn't mind the tweaks or hadn't read the book at all.
They didn't butcher it in a bad way, is what I'm trying to say.First of
all, many of the names were changed and I don't understand why. It's
not as if they needed to change the names; it seems like it may have
been something the director(s) just did for fun. Another small concern
I had was Vanessa Hudgens, and it's not about her acting. She was way
too gorgeous! Whoever did her hair, makeup, and wardrobe, you hit the
nail on the head with the beauty factor. I think this is the prettiest
I've seen her look, to be honest. And unfortunately, that's just didn't
fit with how I pictured Lindy. Vanessa's still gorgeous and I'm
definitely not fuming with anger about it, but in an interview, Hudgens
said, "Lindy's kind of the girl that no one notices." Umm, not with the
way you were looking in that movie! I found it very unrealistic that
someone that gorgeous would have the life and social skills of someone
like Lindy. I think the directors were trying to stay true to the
original Disney's Beauty and the Beast, being that Belle was known for
her looks, but odd and independent personality. They may have also done
this to emphasize even more how ugly Kyle was! Kyle also was not a
furry beast like the Disney movie as it describes in the book. That I
can completely understand. That would just be way too much makeup work
and too much of their time. What killed me the most about this movie
was the ending. It was very rushed and was so abrupt. After reading the
book, I had much higher expectations. 

Overall, this is a typical chick-flick that is enjoyable and pretty
entertaining for those who haven't read the book, but may be a bit
angering to those who have because of all the changes that were made.
Therefore, if you're not dying to see it or are getting this vibe that
you might hate it, just wait until the DVD comes out and rent it. It's
a better book than a movie, but still great for just watching for
pleasure or with friends. Read the book before or after you watch it
and see what you think!
