
Arguably one of the finest horror comedies of all time is Edgar
Wright's Shaun of the Dead, and since its release in '04, there have
been a good number of wannabes. Based on the trailers for Zombieland,
however, I thought that the film had some serious potential to match
Shaun in terms of quality, possibly even usurp it. Having seen the
film, I'm happy to say that Zombieland does just that.

Unlike many comedies in recent memory, in which the majority of laughs
are already provided by the trailer, Zombieland is filled to the brim
with laugh-out-loud moments, thanks largely to the brilliant cast.
Eisenberg is awesome as the main protagonist, Columbus, portraying that
sense of vulnerability and awkwardness, without becoming too Michael
Cera-like. Emma Stone and Abigail Breslin are also terrific as the
sweet, yet tough Wichita and the more-mature-than-she-seems Little
Rock, respectively. 

The real stand-out performance, though, is Woody Harrelson as the
Twinkie-lovin', zombie-hatin' Tallahassee. Next to that of Woody Boyd
on Cheers and Frasier, this is definitely the best performance of his
career. There's also a painfully hilarious cameo appearance about
mid-way through the film that would be a crime to spoil. Suffice it to
say, this is  hands-down  the best cameo that I've ever seen in a
film.

The most surprising aspect of Zombieland, to me, is how much heart
there is. All of the characters feel warm and alive, and what drama
there is to be found feels extremely sincere. Ultimately, you feel
invested in the story and the characters, which  I think  is the most
important thing any film of any genre can do.

Zombieland has instantly become a horror favorite of mine (comedic or
otherwise). The  for the lack of a better word  quotable dialogue,
consistently hysterical tone, and endearing characters, all come
together to create a film that will undoubtedly become a cult classic.
<|_=00=_|>
Just came from a sneak preview held in Baltimore and left the theater
feeling very satisfied. You don't normally find a late September movie
as good as "Zombieland" was. After dropping you in the action right
from the start, the movie keeps coming with constant laughs and good
action. There were not a lot of scares in the movie, other than the few
obvious scenes where you could see one coming, but horror is not what
the director was going for in this film. Laughs, however, come often
and from many different directions. Jessie Eisenberg's nerdy, insecure
'Columbus' character and Woody Harrelson's redneck zombie-killing
'Tallahassee' play very well off each other and provide plenty of
memorable moments. Emma Stone and Abigail Breslin are also solid
throughout. There is also one unforgettable cameo that had most of the
audience rolling in the aisles. The film has a simple, easy to follow
storyline that does not provoke a lot of questions. Indeed, if you go
to this movie expecting a lot of plot twists and surprises, you're
going to be severely disappointed. There is however, good action, good
laughs, and plenty of zombie related gore. At about 90 minutes long, it
does not drag on and gets to the predictable but satisfying ending,
going out in style. There will no doubt be a lot of comparisons to
"Shaun of the Dead", which is nothing to be ashamed of, but this is
truly a one of a kind movie experience that holds its own with any not
only any zombie movie in recent memory, but with any comedy so far this
year. As long as you don't go into this movie expecting too much,
you'll get your money's worth. Well done.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught a sneak preview of Zombieland with a friend and was impressed
to say the least.

Zombieland has to have one of the flashiest openings in memory. There
is no subtle build up. You are dropped right into Zombieland as
Columbus (Jesse Eisenberg) begins listing the rules to survival. Of
course each rule gives you a hysterical example of why the rule is in
place. Anything that has been taboo for horror films at one time is met
head on. I won't list each as not to spoil the movie but Zombieland has
a unique ability to make almost anything seem comical. This includes
the fact that for some reason it seems that every zombie in Zombieland
has a blood belching problem. Literally every zombie has blood spewing
from their mouth. This is captured best in the intro as you almost feel
like you are supposed to have the 3D glasses in place.

Columbus is funny enough with his phobias and geek lifestyle that
proves to be what keeps him alive but it isn't until he meets
Tallahassee (Woody Harrelson), that things really kick into gear.
Harrelson seems to have been born for this role. He has more one liners
than any character in recent memory. Each line is typically vulgar but
even if offensive it is near impossible not to laugh. Let's face it, if
you are completely offended by language or blood then you aren't likely
to be sitting with a crowd watching Zombieland in the first place.

A little romance is thrown into the mix when Columbus and Tallahassee
come up on Wichita (Emma Stone) and Little Rock (Abigail Breslin). For
a zombie comedy I thought Eisenberg and Stone actually had decent
chemistry. Not that much time is dedicated to romance but what is there
comes across as sincere and lets us watch as Columbus transitions from
geek to hero. Even without the romance the girls are an important part
of the chemistry of Zombieland. They help to even out the brawn and the
brains between the four characters.

Zombieland has a simple story. The guys are loners. Columbus with the
simple mission to stay alive and Tallahassee with a never ending search
for any and all of the remaining golden Twinkies left on the planet.
The girls are sisters who are trying to get to an amusement park in CA
where they believe, or at least want to believe it is zombie free. A
small part of the film feels like the movie Vacation with zombies. The
comical trip with a destination which you can just feel isn't going to
be what the characters hope for. Like Vacation it shows that the
journey is far more important than the destination.

The biggest moment of the film has to be the mystery cameo. I'm glad I
didn't know who it was and I won't spoil it for anyone else. I will say
that it was brilliantly written into the script. PERFECT! It really
goes to show how much they focused on getting Zombieland to be a top
notch flick that should go down as a horror-comedy classic to remember.
It will certainly fit alongside Shaun of the Dead in my movie
collection.
<|_=00=_|>
I just was exiting the theater after seeing '9', which is also worth a
look, when my friend and I were offered tickets to a preview screening
of Zombieland, which began almost immediately. I had seen previews for
this picture, but I'd say this exceeded my expectations, which isn't to
say masterpiece, but it was certainly entertaining, and at about 90
minutes, didn't really overstay it's welcome. 

As you might expect for this genre, it's quite gory, so don't go
expecting a light 'R' rating. But if you can handle some bloodshed, no,
make that a substantial amount of bloodshed - but perhaps I should add
in a comic environment - there's some pretty funny stuff here. Woody
Harreleson and Jesse Eisenberg make an amusing odd couple and Emma
Stone was fine for this material, although she and Abigale Breslin had
slightly less to do. 

I'm certainly no expert on the horror genre or the zombie sub-genre,
but I can say that this wasn't as scary as Shaun of the Dead, in fact
not very scary at all, I may have jumped back just a tiny bit a few
times; however I may have laughed more. However I'm sure it does make a
difference that I saw 'Shaun' alone on DVD, while 'Zombieland' I
watched in a theater full of people laughing, clapping and cheering. 

Let's face it, you know what's going to happen in this flick, but I'm
happy to say, plot conventions and all, this delivers enough laughs so
if you know what you're getting into I doubt you'll regret laying down
the price of admission for this sucker. Should you see it, see it
opening night - if I haven't made it clear enough already, this is the
kind of movie where the more enthusiastic people in the theater, the
more fun it will be. And to end on a very positive note, 'Zombieland'
does feature what just might go down in history as the best celebrity
cameo of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was a fun ride all the way through. It's lack of
scariness(non existent) and *GASP!* gore is more than made up for with
the constant flow of hilarity and likable characters. This is by far
the optimist's zombie film, as the way things play out are definitely
different than any one thats come before it(definitely not a Romero
flick, though I think his Land of the Dead actually is second place in
this regard). It has a sleek, very modern sense of style-just watch for
how each rule makes it's appearance/reappearance and a good message on
the importance of others in the worst of times. I recommend this to
anybody who has a remote interest in comedies, zombie/end of the world
flicks, or just having a good time at the theater, and look forward to
seeing it again when it comes out.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) The entire world is hit with an apocalyptic infection that
turns people into zombies once they have been bitten by an infected
zombie. Columbus (Jesse Eisenberg) is a young geek who has a lot of
phobias about almost everything from clowns, to bathrooms, to checking
the back seat of cars. Being alone and scared of the outside world has
kept him alive. His new fear is being eaten by zombies. To survive,
Columbus has begun making a long list of rules to survive. Each time he
gives you one of his rules, you see an example of his rule in action.
He decides to go home to Columbus to see if his parents are still
alive. Along the highway, he meets Tallahassee (Woody Harrelson) a
redneck zombie killer who loves Twinkies. They team up and head for
Tallahassee. On the way they meet and join forces with two girls,
Wichita (Emma Stone) and Little Rock (Abagail Breslin). They may be the
last surviving people on earth, and they must rely on each other to
survive.

(My Comment) Zombieland is a horror comedy at its best. You usually
don't see a zombie movie as a comedy, but you will like this one.
Actually this isn't really a comedy; it is more a funny horror movie,
because there is bloodshed in a comic situation. There is plenty of
blood splattering, plenty of killing and gore, and even some nudity of
a stripper zombie. The film delivers you four heroes that you can root
for when the zombies come after them. You will begin to love the scenes
with the rules of survival that Jesse Eisenberg explains to the
audience in a background voice such as wearing your seat-belt, or the
double-tap rule after you shoot a zombie make sure he is dead by
shooting him in the head again. Trust me; this is not a wasted shot.
Woody Harrelson's performance is terrific, as a redneck zombie killer
who misses his puppy Buck, and must find a Twinkie at any cost. There
is one unforgettable cameo appearance that will take place at someone's
Beverly Hills mansion. I won't say his name, but it is hilarious. There
is one thing that I must say about this zombie movie that is not
normally in zombie movies, and that is the fact that once these zombies
are infected they can run very fast. As a matter of fact that is rule
number 1, be sure that you can outrun the zombies, because the
overweight and slow people were caught first by the zombies. There are
some pretty funny scenes, and you will laugh from beginning to end.
(Columbia Pictures, Run Time 1:20, Rated R)(7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
The name Zombieland conjures up a vision of a zombie-themed amusement
park -- and that's exactly what this film is. Visually stylish and the
most laughs I've had at the movies in a long time. A really solid
script and nice underlying story really helps make this so much more
than just a bunch of awesome zombie kills. That being said, this film
feels as if you're playing a really badass zombie killing video game.

Thanks to 'Natural Born Killers', Woody Harrelson has just the right
cult status and persona for this type of film, which is intended to pay
homage to the great zombie 'B' movies of yesteryear, but really is a
great zombie 'A' movie with today's style & sensibility. Jesse
Eisenberg (who has a certain Michael Cera shyness/eccentricity to his
delivery, but doesn't seem nearly as pathetic as Cera's characters
often come off) carries the film well. And of course, everyone is
talking about the film's 'secret' cameo, and rightly so. It is
absolutely the best and most fun part of an already awesomely fun film
-- and it kept me laughing almost non-stop throughout that 10-15 minute
section of the movie.

This is a zombie-comedy that deserves to take it's place amongst the
best of the genre, 'Shaun of the Dead' and 'Army of Darkness'. In fact,
what I wouldn't give to see a triple feature of these films at a
drive-in theater on Halloween... the perfect place and time for a
zombie feeding.
<|_=00=_|>
Zombieland is hardly a plot-heavy and dramatic masterpiece, but it IS
very, very funny, and not funny in a way you're used to seeing in a
comedy.

There are very few jokes made, the humor is more from people doing
things that people might normally do, just filmed very well in a
humorous fashion.

Oh, and the movie has lots of zombies and other awesome stuff that
surround this entire idea of having every situation be the biggest
"What the frack?!" you can possibly imagine.

The small cast was obviously having a great time when they made it, and
all four characters did a very good job of fitting with the style of
the movie.

Lastly, while the whole movie is hilarious, one scene in particular
will have you in fits, one of the funniest single little scenes I've
ever seen. But, no spoilers here!
<|_=00=_|>
8.4 out of 10. Somebody must have given zombies the vote.

* SPOILER ALERT * Except, what's to spoil? The writers ran out of ideas
roughly seven minutes into the film. It starts off OK, if not
brilliantly. Via excessive voice-over, we are introduced to our first
one-dimensional Hollywood cardboard cut-out character ("25-year old,
nerdy, Jewish, obsessive-compulsive, A-student, virgin"). He has a set
of rules for survival: a nice device, but none of the rules are exactly
hilarious.

We then meet our second one-dimensional character ("roughneck with
barely concealed warm heart"), and our first none-dimensional character
("feisty girl with no logical motivation for anything she does other
than to present a series of romantic challenges for her one-
dimensional male admirer").

** SPOILER ** Hence, the two cardboard men enter a shop looking to help
reinforce the film's product placement deal. They kill three zombies in
inexplicably unnecessary ways, then enter a back room to find two girls
(how have they evaded the zombies?), waiting for real people (how did
they know the only other two people in America would be passing by?),
so they can trick them (why?) and steal their car (why, when there are
millions of cars?) and guns (ditto) and drive off in the opposite
direction.

Then, they lay another trap for the guys (how did they know they'd
change direction from east to west and pass by in that direction, down
that country road, at that time?), steal their car again (why, when
they have one already?), kidnap them instead of leaving them behind
(why? why? why? why? and, then again, why?). Ad absurdum, ad infinitum.

The middle hour of the film made no attempt to interrupt the enveloping
boredom. With Bill Murray, this is the first time I've seen an actor
introduced into a film exactly as if he were a piece of product
placement, along with ample cringeworthy toadying. It felt as if the
studio had said, "the script's not long enough, and we need an extra 25
pages. Bill Murray owes us a favour, so you can have him for an
afternoon, if you like. But you only have an hour to write it." They
remark on how much he looks like Eddie Van Halen, which is bizarre,
because he clearly looks like Michael Jackson. But maybe they thought
referencing Jackson would have felt too much like introducing a joke
into the film.

The final act was merely a bland shoot-'em-up computer game, but
without the intellectual dimension.

The role the zombies play in this film is as an uninteresting,
unthreatening MacGuffin required to cause occasional distractions from
what is in essence the lamest love story between two of the least
interesting characters in modern film.

It's an insult to America to refer to Zombieland as an American Shaun
of the Dead, a film which incidentally has an IMDb rating of just 7.8,
against Zombieland's 8.4. Which is rather like Star Wars rating 7.8
against Plan 9 from Outer Space rating 8.4.

1 out of 10 because 0 isn't an option.
<|_=00=_|>
I mean come on, who doesn't think about what they would do if zombies
took over the world. Its a fun, yet serious question to think about.
Most movies have it right, by taking the serious side of things. But
what if we take a video game approach and just run around killing
everyone of them? Uh.......you can more than sign me up for this one.
OK, lets face the honest question.......if your some little prissy girl
who does not like or does not appreciate zombie films.......then this
is the wrong movie for you. This movie takes everything you have
learned from all those movies, and puts a comedic spin on it. I mean
come on, a zombie stripper wearing nipple tasles running in slow
motion.....how could anyone not want to see that? The movie is very
basic in its groundwork, but excels in its humor and character drive.
Woody is basically a zombie film buff's wet dream. A hoosier red neck
who wants to just kill zombies for the rest of his life. Now i must
admit, towards the middle of the movie, it almost felt like they
weren't focusing on the whole zombie aspect that much........mainly
because they were adding a little depth to each of the characters. But
rest assured, by the end, it totally quenches your thirst. But through
all the hilarious dialogue and funny little zombie killing sequences,
the best part of the movie was hands down the cameo. Now if you have
not heard who it is by now, im not going to say it........but it is
almost genius, and probably the best cameo ever created, and i will
stand by that 100%. Trust me, it is that funny. Bottom Line.......i
know i love zombie movies, and i might seem a little bias........but
damnit, this movie is easily the best comedy of the year. It was the
perfect mix of humor and gore........not only that, the story was
pretty decent, and very entertaining to watch unfold. This movie is
seriously like a fun house at the carnival. It will easily be accepted
by the zombie lover crowd, and the general population. This movie is
easily one of the 10 best i have seen so far this year. If your looking
to have a good time at the theatre, this movie will surely provide
that.
