
Whether we like it or not the last couple of years have been incredibly
tough, and TCM though not perfect at least tries to make an honest film
about downsizing in corporate America.

We really really got this - we all know someone whose lost their home,
their job, or just found that the money isn't there the way it was -
and those who reviewed this and said the films doesn't work as the
characters have still got it good just don't get the college payments,
the mortgage, the fear of losing it all, and the horrendous amount of
money it takes to maintain a life in the US now is astronomical - and
TCM at least looks at this as no other film has in the past three
years.

Solid performances from everyone and Affleck in particular echoing his
roles in Man about Town or Jersey Girl does a solid job here as the man
who has it all and then has nothing. 

It it does try to record something which otherwise seems to be in
danger of being swept under the carpet - this is a well-made film that
rings true and for our money was actually one of the more memorable and
yes, even moving, films of the year - it is accessible and a likable
film.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to find this online even though it's not at the movies, yet.
The thing I like most about the movie is how it accurately depicts how
the rich are getting richer in this recession while the bottom falls
out for most of us. The daily news seems to report job losses in a
matter-of-fact fashion these days. This movie puts a personal face on
these out-of-work people - though dealing with it from the executive's
perspective. I guess making a movie about how those on the lower
economic spectrum - those MOST affected - just wouldn't be appealing
enough for Hollywood. There would be the inconvenience of telling a
story in which ALL of the characters remained in dire straits at the
end - the way things still are today. I guess - like the politicians -
Hollywood seems to be big on building hope in this one. At least by
dealing with the layoffs from the executive's perspective, they were
able to show some people NOT rebounding, but others actually getting
their feet back under them. All in all, worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
THE COMPANY MEN is very difficult to watch if you are among the
millions of people who have been laid off by the current economic
recession/meltdown in this country. Writer/Director John Wells
understands the grave aspects of losing a job as corporations and
businesses downsize in response to the current economic disaster -
depression, humiliation, loss of self-worth and pride, fear of failure
in finding new employment, the effects of job loss on marriages and
families, loss of hope - it is all here in this very well made film. If
the first part of the film causes a reactive tachycardia and an urge to
simply stop watching the story, then the closing moments of the film
bring at least a little redemption in the faith that man can actually
survive and reassess and stop being a victim of a situation over which
few of us have any control. 

GTX is a shipbuilding empire in Boston, the brainchild of Gene McClary
(Tommy Lee Jones) who brought a simple ship building business to a
wealthy corporation now run by CEO James Salinger (Craig T. Nelson):
McClary is a billionaire with a wife concerned with shopping sprees
using the corporate jet and a lover Sally Wilcox (Maria Bello), the HR
director of the corporation. The year is 2008 and the stock market and
the economy in general have dipped to a new low and terrifying point.
The result: downsizing and one of the first to go is sales manager
Bobby Walker (Ben Affleck) who is shocked and then hurt and then
overcome with a feeling of failure and humiliation. Bobby's wife Maggie
(Rosemarie DeWitt) at first responds with desperation but adjusts by
taking on work as an ER nurse, coaxing their son to not lose hope in
Bobby. Bobby tries to find work but is the victim of the joblessness of
the country: he finally accepts Maggie's brother Jack's (Kevin Costner)
offer to to work as a simple carpenter. Meanwhile the downsizing
includes Gene and longterm employee Phil (Chris Cooper) who is overcome
with anger and humiliation at being unemployable because of his
advanced age. The manner in which each of these three men cope with the
loss of job and income weaves a story that is complete with tragedy as
well as a demonstration of the indomitability of the human spirit. 

THE COMPANY MEN contains many messages about coping with change,
preparing for a realistic financial future, and the delicate line that
separates each day's stance on the tightrope of existence. While the
story is difficult to watch, the performances by this exceptional cast
are excellent, not only among the Oscar winning stars but by the finely
wrought cameos by Anthony O'Leary as Bobby's son Drew, Cady Huffman,
and Eamonn Walker (so well remember from the TV series OZ), among many
others. 

This is tough medicine but necessary views on contemporary society. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Having been in these shoes, I appreciated this movie even more.

This is a solidly entertaining and believable film about professional
men (and women) who lose their identities as they lose their jobs in
corporate America economic decline.

Some folks rebound, others can't. I grew attached to the characters.
Every performance was believable and tight.

I found myself rooting for success, even though it wasn't always in the
cards.

The ending wrapped everything up in a tidy ball, which I like.

Bottom line: Solid entertainment with very few explosions.
<|_=00=_|>
There is little doubt that losing a job is among the most traumatic
events that can happen in ones life. Losing a job not only means loss
of income and the uncertainty and worry that accompanies such a loss,
but also loss of self-esteem and loss of confidence in the future.
These themes are effectively dramatized in this movie. The main
character, a young, well-paid white collar worker, loses his job and it
changes his life, and not necessarily for the better. The movie shows
how all of us are subject to economic forces way beyond our ability to
control. As the movie shows, nobody is immune to the effects of these
economic forces. Huge companies can be downsized, bought up, dismantled
and disappear. Sometimes it's easy to believe that these corporate
entities will go on forever, but it's an illusion. There is no
security; there is no reward for loyalty. And while thousands of
workers lose their jobs, corporate executives, that is, those who
actually own these companies, pay themselves millions of dollars. Yet,
as the movie shows, these huge salaries do not guarantee economic
security either, as one's company can be put up for sale. When the
movie tries to get moralistic, the story gets a little mushy, but for
the most part the story stays on track and avoid that pitfall. Ben
Affleck, Tommy Lee Jones and Chris Cooper give strong performances as
the company men; the rest of the cast, which includes Craig T. Nelson
and Maria Bello, are excellent too. This movie is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know much about business, but that doesn't mean it's hard to
appreciate a good business movie. Despite a few dumbed down bits, The
Company Men, comes with a feeling of authenticity with some heart and
decent performances from everybody. That is good enough for me.

In a hundred minutes, The Company Men gives us a small taste of what
The recession did to American business. It does so in a way that
favours character over making anti-corporate statements. The movie
chooses to zoom in on the lives of three sales executives and how they
deal with job loss.

I've never been in love with Ben Affleck, but when he wants to, he can
show some professionalism. In The Company Men he does just that,
proving capable of hitting all the emotional notes when necessary,
something I feel he missed in his previous film the Town.

The Company Men is actually a rather sad movie. It is only a hundred
minute in length, but it feels longer. There is a good amount of talk,
but nothing ever feels too contrived, wasted or unnecessary. Is it a
brilliant film? No, but I can safely recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Â…does that mean he works 700 times harder? 

This movie comments on the state of affairs resulting from the recent
economic fallout. Its message is clear (although still subtle enough
for some reviewers to have missed it) and will take you on a journey
through corperate America. Showing how greed can corrupt, but still
pays well. That the little people are often used, instead of protected,
and that there're always a lot more losers than winners.

The movie asks ethical questions that we should all be asking about the
way big business is run as well as highlighting the growing gap between
the 'haves' and the 'have not's'. 

There's some brilliant one liners thrown in there and a healthy dose of
dark humour to keep things fresh. The only problem is the Hollywood
ending. Sadly, there is no saving grace in real life.
<|_=00=_|>
John Wells, well known for being the show-runner behind long running
hits, The West Wing and ER, writes and directs this fantastic film
about corporate downsizing and how affects the lives of three men. Set
in Boston, Massachusetts, a fictional company, GTX, is reeling from the
economic crisis and is cutting jobs left and right to appease
shareholders in an attempt to drive up their stock price. The scene to
open the movie is quite powerful in the way it captures the feeling of
"this sort of thing can happen to anybody, when you least expect it". 

The movie stars Ben Affleck, Tommy Lee Jones, and Chris Cooper. Each
actor plays the role of an employee at GTX, with Jones' character being
someone in executive management, Cooper's a notch or so below him, and
Affleck as a highly paid salesman. These characters don't have too much
interaction on screen, the film examines more the relationships between
themselves and their families, neighbors, and communities. The three
actors turn in pretty incredible performances, and its a wonder that
the film wasn't released earlier in 2010 to be eligible for awards
consideration. Kevin Costner, Maria Bello, and Rosemarie DeWitt also
play pivotal roles in the film and do superior jobs at being
enrapturing and authentic.

The film reminds me a lot of, Up in the Air, and perhaps that's the
reason it wasn't released for awards consideration, but instead for
commercial ambitions, because Reitman's already did that. But, it's
very different than the prior film in how it depicts the lives of those
higher up the corporate ladder and the descent that occurs when one's
income disappears. Critics can take shots at Wells pacing of the movie,
but it's no easy feat to write and direct a major motion picture and I
believe he does an excellent job at showing and challenging several
aspects of American culture and lifestyle. Definitely, worth a watch.

http://reelpopcorn.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
"The Company Men" is one of those that really showcases what it's been
like the last couple of years especially in the corporate world of how
the layoffs and downsizing have affected many families and the lives of
other people. It shows that it's tough when you fall down and that life
is hard when you have to adjust economically really one has to
rediscover their fate and way of living.

Set in Boston at the height of the economic crisis and collapse
director John Wells paints a pretty and somewhat unpleasant picture of
how the corporate world changes many lives by downsizing. It centers
around the lives of three men who work at a corporate company GTX. And
top sells leader Bobby Walker(Ben Affleck)all of a sudden one day is
canned and let go as the company can't afford to pay his salary as
demands and stocks fall along with the sales of GTX. Then next is a
veteran manager Phil Woodward(Chris Cooper)a man who somewhat is cut in
the back and let go in a harsh way. And this greatly affects the life
of both it even drives Phil to a deadly depression. And Bobby's world
is turned upside down as going from $120,000 a year to roughly $60,000
to maybe $80,000 is a big drop. As it affected Bobby's money world no
more golf lessons, gone is the expensive car and maybe Patriot tickets.

Heartfelt and life changing is seeing Bobby take up working
construction for his wife's brother(Kevin Costner)going from suit and
tie to hard hat! The wild card and conflicted character in the movie is
veteran GTX manager Gene McClary(Tommy Lee Jones)a man who's loyal yet
hard headed for the company in the meantime deep down Gene knows what's
going on at GTX is not right. Plus McClary is a very conflicted man
he's stressed plus he's cheating on his wife with a company employee
the sexy and elegant Sally Wilcox(Maria Bello).

During it all the trio of men feel the highs and lows of life and it's
ever changing economic and social climates. Really it's a time to
ponder and rediscover as it proves for both Bobby and Gene it's never
late to start over even if it is less still it's a change and
rediscovery of happiness. Overall good film that captures the reality
of the corporate and economic recessions of the last few years it's so
true of how companies do downsizing of their men which alters and
changes lives forever.
<|_=00=_|>
A film with Chris Cooper in it is usually worth watching for that
reason alone. American Beauty, Adaptation, Syriana and so on down to
The Bourne Identity. So put him in a film about the ravages of
capitalism and globalisation and you would expect him underline the
films Big Messages, even as a senior exec getting the chop at about the
time most people think of retiring. Go on Chris, throw it back at the
stockholders and the money men, the heartless HR bitches, have a good
rant and explain to us all how it went so wrong. No can do. I'm gonna
kill myself because despite having spent my life in steady and
increasingly remunerative employment, I can't afford to send my kiddies
to college. Where did it all go? Down his throat? Up his nose? On the
horses.

But the film wasn't really about Chris. It was about Ben Affleck, an
obnoxious golf'n'marketing alpha male who's also been given the push,
much to his arrogant disbelief. And Ben hasn't been saving either
because within a very short space of time they've had to stop payments
on their kid's Xbox (who, on $160K buys an Xbox on a payment plan?) and
lose the crappy Porsche Boxster (not even a 911). Within no time at all
they're all back with mum and dad and Ben's had to swallow his pride
and ask brother-in-law Kevin Costner, who he's previously dismissed,
for a charity job in his small construction outfit.

In the meantime, Tommy Lee Jones, who may or may not have helped start
the firm that's now gone tits up, has gone all dark and moody and
thinking' about the good old days, even though he's got a pile of dough
and is banging the good looking broad who's doing all the firing.

Two hours, or however long this is, is an ambitious time to follow the
arcs of three or four largely unsympathetic characters through the
turmoils of post-2008 "downsizing". For real people, this is an
experience of fear, anxiety, depression, frustration and hopelessness.
But this film does not take you there, apart from in the glibbest
fashion. Ben's rage at his reduced status finds its apogee in throwing
stones (from a distance that would seriously embarrass a Palestinian
protester) at his old office building.

The only thing that rings true is Ben's uselessness as a builder. The
only realistic line is delivered by the otherwise perfunctory Costner,
when asked by Ben if he can bring another failed exec into the building
game: "let's just hope he's faster than you are," says the man of few
words.

But in the end it's all OK because Tommy buys back the old shipyard,
pulls the team back together and with a jolly "What's the worse that
can happen?" they chug off into the future. The film closes with some
sort of ship emerging from the rusting yard, a rebirth if you will, a
veritable Phoenix.

I imagine this film will leave a lot of people feeling short changed
and some, positively seething with anger.
