
This film reduced me to tears of laughter. I've just returned home from
seeing it at the Edinburgh film festival and can honestly say this is
one of the best movies i've seen this year. I could just list all of
the best bits of the movie in this review, but i'd rather you all just
went to see it for yourselves.

As a parody/homage of the blaxploitation movies of the 70's, this is
perfect. If I didn't know better, i'd think this was actually made in
the 70's. Its full of cool little details, the decor, the fashion, the
hair styles, the Isaac Hayes/Curtis mayfield style music that details
the plot in the lyrics (sometimes scene specific), the grainy picture
and the intentionally dodgy camera-work, crash zooms, boom mics in shot
etc. During the fight scenes, Michael jai white's kung fu yell is a
spot on impersonation of Jim Kelly's (he of Enter the Dragon fame).

Like all the best spoofs, all the actors play it completely straight.
White is perfectly cast as Black Dynamite, and if there is any justice
in the world, this movie will make him a star. I can almost imagine
Samuel L playing this part, but I doubt he could have played it as well
as white did. The scene that crystallised his performance for me, was
when, during a long speech, a boom mic pops in to shot right next to
his face. During the scene, the cameraman is continually trying to
adjust the shot to hide the mic. Dynamite continues with his speech as
if nothing is going on, but just before he is finished talking, he
quickly glances at it, then finishes his speech. The way he plays it is
perfect and had everyone in the cinema in fits of laughter.

I said earlier that this is the best spoof since airplane, but I
actually think this may be better. In airplane, the jokes were
quickfire, but hit and miss, but in black dynamite, every joke hits its
mark, and its just as quickfire as airplane. The tone is set pretty
quick ( when an undercover agent is caught out cos he cant talk jive
properly) and doesn't let up until the credits have rolled. I was still
laughing hours after I left the cinema just thinking about it. 

Watching this made me wonder how the Austin powers films were such big
hits. They were a similar kind of parody but nowhere near as funny, and
at the end of the day, aside from a couple of amusing cameos, a one man
show (and not a very good one at that). If this doesn't at least do
Austin powers numbers, I will be very disappointed, as it deserves the
success. Very rarely does a film make me laugh so hard I cry, and this
movie did it several times, and its not just me, I think everyone in
the cinema had the same experience. Go and see this first chance you
get, I cant recommend it enough.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not often that I enjoy a movie to the point of laughing out loud Â–
but Black Dynamite had me belly-laughing more than once. For those of
us who are old enough to remember the joys of 1970's cinema this movie
brings back all that was best (and worst) of those slightly grainy,
scratched, funk and wow-wow pedal laden classics. The deliberate
continuity errors and goofs are hilarious. The dialogue and stock
characters could be drawn from any of those wonderful blacksploitation
movies that were so exciting for a young lad living in rainy (and then
almost 100% white) Ireland. So dig out your wide-collar shirt, pendant
and platform boots and enjoy this gem.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the great good pleasure of experiencing the full force of Black
Dynamite at a midnight showing (at the Castro...one of The Last Great
Movie Palaces). I had high expectations going in (based on the YouTube
trailer). They were met, exceeded, and blown the F away. I don't
remember betting a gut busted so hard in ages.

BD is an absolutely perfect movie. It somehow manages to be a parody
and the thing that it is parodying at the same time. You are watching
this alternate universe (a fantasy of the 70s, filtered through the
lens of Blaxploitation) and the characters are REAL and they believe in
the fantasy. But you are also constantly reminded that you are watching
a FILM, an intentionally bad one at that. All the things professional
filmmakers try to avoid, they do on purpose: Boom mike hitting actor's
head, obvious continuity errors, reusing the same shot to save money
(exploding car flying off cliff), replacing a stunt actor in
mid-sequence... The effect is delightful and hilarious. 

Kudos to the crew and actors for really "getting it" and going for it.
(I think the only movie I've seen recently where the actors were having
so much fun was Tropic Thunder.)

Oh, and the soundtrack; Man, I need to get me some of dat.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this last night and it's the first movie in a long while that
hasn't left me feeling ripped off. Thoroughly entertaining and is
funniest movie I've seen all year. The movie does what other spoof
films haven't done. It's well crafted and thought out and shows a great
attention to detail. The camera work is great, music is well chosen,
the backgrounds and venues are authentic, the jokes and dialog are
funny, Michael Jai White and the supporting cast are great. I saw a
trailer earlier this summer but had forgotten about the movie until I
read a magazine interview with White discussing the movie. It's a shame
there isn't more publicity behind this movie. This film will surely be
a cult classic in the same line as Pulp Fiction.
<|_=00=_|>
All you suckas gather round, there's a brand new movie in town! So get
on up and check the scene cause Black Dynamite is the baddest movie to
ever hit the big screen! Black Dynamite, directed by Scott Sanders
(Thick as Thieves), is a fun and ridiculous throwback to all of the
great blaxploitation films of the 1970's. Paying homage to such great
films as Shaft, Dolemite, Coffy, and more.

The movie centers around Black Dynamite, an ex-C.I.A. Agent / Vietnam
Vet / Kung-Fu Master / Pimp / Everyday Bad Ass, who is pulled back in
the game when the mob kills his brother and puts the dope on the
streets. So Black Dynamite is forced to take down the mob and clean up
the ghetto. On his quest for vengeance we discover that the treachery
runs far deeper then we ever could imagine. Black Dynamite must take
his fight from the streets all the way to the top, even if that means
taking on The Man himself in the white halls of the Honky House.

The film is not only an homage to the stories and themes of
blaxploitation films, but also how they where made and the culture
behind the genre in a whole. Top-notch crews with million dollar
budgets never made these types of movies. Often blaxploitation films,
like any other exploitation genre of the 70's, were filled with botched
shots, boom mics, and stiff acting. From the beginning all exploitation
films existed simply to sell tickets and make money. Usually, for the
audience, this meant a poster that was far more exciting then the movie
itself. Despite that fact Black Dynamite definitely delivers on what it
advertises. The film is able to use all of these unfortunate elements
intentionally and create subtle and at times not so subtle laughs. A
good example of this is a scene early on in the film where Black
Dynamite is giving a long monologue and a boom mic pops in the shot
just above his head. As the scene plays out the cameraman even attempts
to adjust the shot to try and hide the mic, possibly making it worse.
Dynamite continues on with his speech as if nothings wrong, until he's
almost finished and he quickly glances at it, then he proceeds to
finish as if he's seen noting at all.

The key factor about all of these gags is that all of the
actors/characters play it completely straight from beginning to end
without skipping a beat. This is a spoof, in the vein of films like
Young Frankenstein or Airplane!, that doesn't let the cast in on the
joke. The movie plays out as if it's your typical 70's revenge flick.
So you end up feeling as if the film was just unearthed after being
lost for thirty years or so and you accept it. In the end this is what
keeps the movie fresh and the audience wanting more. Most spoof movies
that go in the other direction, ending up with a movie filled with a
series of gags that feel contrived and completely take you out of the
movie (see Disaster Movie or Meet the Spartans). Here you're with Black
Dynamite all they way to the end no matter what.

The cast of characters in the film might even be crazier then the films
itself. With names like Cream Corn (Tommy Davidson), Chocolate Giddy-Up
(Cedric Yarbrough), and Tasty Freeze (Arsenio Hall) you know you're in
for a wild ride. All the supporting characters feel authentic and bring
much needed humor to a world filled with kung-Fu treachery and smack
addicted orphans. Though, when it comes down to it this is a one-man
show and Michael Jai White, who is also a co-writer on the film, gives
an outstanding performance as our main man Black Dynamite. In order for
this movie to work Black Dynamite needed to live up to the hype it
created. Like the trailer says, "he's tougher then Shaft, Superfly, and
the Mack all put together". White definitely pulls it off; creating a
character that you love and believe without a doubt could take King
Kong in a fistfight and not even break a sweat. White really shines in
this movie and I hope it leads to more leading roles for him.

One last thing that can't be overlooked about this film is the
soundtrack by Adrian Younge, who came out of nowhere and created a very
convincing 1970's soundtrack. The best thing about the soundtrack is
that it feels vintage fitting right in with similar soundtracks from
the 70's, but at the same time remains fresh and doesn't seem to
rip-off anything specific. He hits all the right notes and keeps true
to that retro 70's beat. The majority of films today wish they had a
soundtrack half as good as Black Dynamite.

If you enjoy the exploitation films of the 70's or movies like Army of
Darkness and Grindhouse you're going to love this movie. Though if
you're a film-goer who can't stand movies with a ridiculous premise
you'll want to avoid this one, but for those that do your going to have
a blast. Unfortunately Black Dynamite has only opened in a few cities
so far keep an eye out for it, hopefully it will get a wider release in
the weeks to come. This is definitely one of those movies that benefits
from viewing it with an audience so if it's in your town be sure to run
out and see it. Can you dig it?

Recommended Flicks: Shaft (1971) | Dolemite (1975) | Truck Turner
(1974) | Coffy (1973) | Hammer (1972) | Magnum Force (1973) | The Last
Dragon (1985) | I'm Gonna Git You Sucka (1988) | Enter the Dragon
(1973)
<|_=00=_|>
Taking scenes from current films and goofing them up, parody flicks
come off as lazy and, in the long run, forgettable. That's not the case
with "Black Dynamite", a slam-bam spoof of the blaxploitation films of
the 1970s, that stand on its' own two feet. Holy Mel Brooks and Quentin
Tarantino (Both men should watch this film)! 

Big, black, sexy,dangerous and sometimes ludicrous is the title hero
(Michael Jai White of, "Spawn", The Dark Knight" and an edited scene
from "Kill Bill"), an ex-CIA operative who's on the road of revenge
when his kid brother's killed for being an undercover snitch (and
speaking proper English!). 

The crime leads to plots involving drug-addicted orphans (Huh?) and
malt liquor that emasculates African-American men (What the?!). Through
it all, BD encounters mobsters, dealers, pimps, hustlers, whores, Black
Power revolutionaries, corrupt CIA operatives, kung fu assassins and. .
. good God. . . a nunchuks-wielding Richard Nixon (Now, why didn't Zack
Snyder give his Nixon in "Watchmen" some mad kung fu skills?)! 

Unlike previous spoofs of the genre ("I'm Gonna Get You, Sucka!"
,"Undercover Brother" and "Pootie Tang"), "BD" takes place in the
1970s, not only embracing the funky fashions, ambiance and lingo, but
also the embarrassing gaffes, miscues and continuity errors that the
politically minded, yet Ed Wood-like auteurs blatantly sanctioned in
their cine-opuses. A character hits his head against the boom mike. A
stuntman's quickly replaced within the reel (!) after getting hit
accidentally. Wild, shaking close-ups are aplenty. Exposition is told
in song. Supporting players appear out of nowhere! For cine-sticklers,
it's a parade of goofs.

A crowd pleaser at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival, "BD" is a laugh
riot and a half, thanks to the gonzo ace script by White (possibly the
next Leslie Nielsen), Byron Minns (who plays a rhyming night club
owner, a la the late comic Rudy Ray "Dolemite" Moore, here) and Scott
Sanders ("Thick as Thieves" which features White), the film's helmer,
who expertly winks at the audience as he stands behind the camera.

Characters actors are dead-on camp: Salli Richardson-Whithead ("Posse",
the TV show, "Eureka") is a Black Power revolution dame, who falls for
the hero; Mike Starr ("Goodfellas", "Jersey Girl") is a mobster flanked
by bikini-clad babes; Phil Morris ("Seinfeld", "The Secret Saturdays")
is a revolutionary capo; Mykleti T. Williamson ("Forrest Gump", "Lucky
Number Slevin ") is a mean street hustler, comics Arsenio Hall and
Cedric Yarborough are tacky clothed pimps; Tommy Davidson ("In Living
Color") is a politically incorrect gay man; Roger Yuan (the film's
co-stunt choreographer, "Shanghai Noon") as a fiendish kung fu villain
and Nicole Sullivan ("Rita Rocks, "The Secret Saturdays") is Tricky
Dick's better half, Pat Nixon. Yeah. . .she falls for BD too.

With a $3 million budget, "BD"'s free to be a true parody, needing not
to resort to cheap gags. Some might see the flick as unneeded but the
animosity towards our current President (Hint! Hint) disproves that. Go
see "Black Dynamite". . .unless you're some super, jive-ass sucka!
<|_=00=_|>
This is what "Undercover Brother" and "Grindhouse" (minus the 'phony'
trailers) wished they could have been but weren't: a tribute to a
dismissed period of cinema that feels like it belongs (and comes from)
its era.

But this isn't just a collection of random jokes or stabs at
blaxploitation genre clichÃ©s without rhyme or reason. There is an
actual story (convoluted and non-sensical but it's there, and even
allows long scenes that advance the plot to unfold without a single
obvious joke), there are real characters (over-the-top and clichÃ©' but
not two-dimensional walking cardboards) and there are action/fighting
scenes (enhanced via the same seamless green screen/CG technology used
in "Kung-Pow" a few years back) that make this an actual blaxpoitation
movie that just happens to be funny because it's being so true and
respectful to the genre it represents. Michael Jai White looks and
inhabits his lead role like he stepped out of the 1970's; it's the best
casting for a movie since Christopher Reeve got the Superman/Clark Kent
role, and I'm not kidding. Supporting actors really get into their
blaxpoitation roles (Arsenio Hall and Tommy Davidson are hilarious in
too-brief cameos) but they don't overplay their OTT personalities or
overstay their welcome. The way "Black Dynamite" gets around its 'R'
rating to sneak in a graphic sex scene is not only genius but ties
directly with the movie's best scene in which the 'heroes' crack the
code in a cafeteria. And the orphanage scene has to be seen to be
believed. :-P Only the overblown finale that pushes things way past the
breaking point (think "Shoot 'Em Up" and yes, it's that big a misfire)
betrays the cinematic illusion that this is a 70's flick that's been
rotting in a vault somewhere.

I got my $12.50's worth and will gladly wait for the DVD because I'm
sure there's a joke or two I missed. The one's that hit the mark are
hilarious though. Don't listen to the DVD Talk reviewer on this one
(they're usually right but this time he's way off), "Black Dynamite" is
a winnah!
<|_=00=_|>
Black Dynamite has quite a reputation as just about every article or
review that mentioned the film gave it high praise. Is it possible for
a film to be incredible while paying homage to the films that inspired
it? Sure it is. Directors like Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez
make a living doing just that. With Black Dynamite, however, you may
not know what to expect. Expect it to parody the blaxploitation films
from the 70s, pay homage to classic kung-fu films, have ridiculous
dialogue, a storyline that hilariously doesn't make sense, and have a
funky soundtrack with lyrics that are just as awesome as the rest of
the film.

Michael Jai White is really the selling point of the film since he is
Black Dynamite and you're with him the entire film. I hadn't seen much
of White's work before this, but I'm definitely wanting to see more
now. His fight scenes are top notch and from what I could tell, it
looked like he did the majority of his own stunts. The word I've been
hearing is that he's a fairly impressive actor overall, but has just
never really picked the right roles and never really broke into the
mainstream. Maybe after playing Gambol in The Dark Knight helped him
out a bit because he definitely has a bright future as not only an
action star, but an actor as well. Other than his superb martial arts
work, White's comedic timing is also really important in a film like
this and it really pays off. There's a scene where a boom mic is
noticeably in the shot while Black Dynamite is giving a big speech. He
draws attention to it by repeatedly glaring at the mic throughout the
scene, but doesn't miss a beat of the dialogue. Ridiculous scenes like
that were crucial in the overall enjoyment factor of the film.

The dialogue is laugh out loud funny at times. There's a scene where
the CIA show up at Black Dynamite's house and Agent O'Leary says to
Black Dynamite, "We heard about your brother's death and we don't want
you running around turning the streets into rivers of blood." Black
Dynamite responds with, "Then tell me who did it and I'll just leave a
puddle." The storyline is just as absurd, as well. Other than the film
missing scenes that were shown in the trailer and things not fully
being resolved with Vincent "The Don" Rafelli, the scene where Black
Dynamite and his crew figure out what Anaconda malt liquor's true
purpose is is both hilariously long-winded and confusing.

Black Dynamite may not be for everyone, but it will be hilariously
awesome for most who actually get to see it. The film somehow manages
to blend comedy as absurd and ridiculous as films like Anchorman: The
Legend of Ron Burgundy or Zoolander and have hard hitting action scenes
that are noticeably a tribute to classic Bruce Lee films. This
blaxploitation parody comes highly recommended, can you dig it?
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a film that would have fit perfectly with the 2007 release of
Grindhouse. I wish that Black Dynamite had been worked on enough so
that a trailer would have been featured along with the faux trailers in
Grindhouse. (Although one of those faux trailers, Machete, is being
made into a full-length feature.) Michael Jai White (who is probably
best known by many as Spawn or as the ill-fated gangster, Gambol, from
The Dark Knight) is excellent as Black Dynamite. White is not only an
excellent action star, but he's also got great comedic timing. His
deadpan delivery mixed in with very impressive martial arts abilities
are worth the price of admission for this flick. White channels Richard
Roundtree, Robert Hooks, Fred Williamson, and yet he makes the role his
own. How White hasn't become a prominent action star, much like Jason
Statham, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Jet Li, Tony Jaa, and so on is a
complete mystery to me. I hope that this is a breakout role for him.

One of my favorite characters in this film is Bullhorn (played by Byron
Minns). He's the film's answer to Rudy Ray Moore, rhymes and all. For
those who have seen Dolemite, you'll know what I'm talking about. (He
also narrated the hilarious trailers for the movie.) The film features
a cast full of what's his faces. Richard Edson (Stranger than Paradise
and Do the Right Thing) has a brief role in the film. Mykelti
Williamson (Bubba from Forrest Gump) plays one of the villains, Chicago
Wind. Mike Starr (Goodfellas and Dumb & Dumber) plays the mob leader.
Arsenio Hall, of all people, plays a coked out hustler named Tasty
Freeze. Tommy Davidson, with a head of curly hair, appears as one of
Black Dyamite's sidekicks, Cream Corn.

This film is a throwback to the 70's, with the classics of
Blaxploitation. It not only has a lot of laughs, but I also felt that
the movie essentially became a Blaxploitation within a half-hour into
the movie.

If you're a fan of Blaxploitation films, this will not disappoint. If
you're in for a good comedy, check this one out. It will provide more
laughs than a good majority of the comedies released this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Jay White is "Black Dynamite" (if you have seen the movie,
imagine the music, when saying that)! You might have seen him in
"Spawn" or as one of the evil doers in "Dark Knight". Or if you are
into some "B-Action" movies, there are quite a few he made (some of
them even quite good).

Unfortunately he hasn't had his big break yet. Unfortunately and kinda
surprisingly, at least for me. Even before watching Black Dynamite, I
thought of him as a great actor. And when you watch this you will feel
the same way. And you don't even have to be a "Blax-ploitation" expert
to enjoy the comedy, that is displayed here! 

The movie avoids getting big celebrities in major roles (Arsenio Hall
being one of the "biggest" names), which actually makes the movie feel
like it could have been shot back in the height of the Blax-ploitation
movement! And it's rather a celebration of this "sub-genre" (if you
want to call it that), than trying to make it ridiculous! A must-see
movie! So full of crazy ideas and great (silly) performances, I can
only hope there will be more movies like this in the future!
