
When I originally heard of the concept for Steven Antin's Burlesque, a
movie musical starring pop phenom Christina Aguilera and the legendary
Cher, I was, if you could believe it, less than enthusiastic. I was
under the assumption that this film would be not just bad, but god
awful. Recalling horrid pop star film debuts (ex. Mariah Carey in the
depressingly hollow Glitter, Britney Spears in the mind-numbing
Crossroads) I thought I was in for a cinematic train wreck of epic
proportions. And I'm happy to tell you today, that I couldn't have been
more wrong.

First of all, what makes Burlesque unlike Glitter and Crossroads is its
aesthetics. Christina Aguilera's strong voice is enough to carry a
film, as it turns out. However, Burlesque has more to fall back on.
Cher plays Tess, Aguilera's character's boss and mentor. She can make
any film excellent. Secondly, this film is a musical, also unlike
Glitter and Crossroads. It shoots for being something of a hybrid
between Cabaret and Chicago, and doesn't completely fail. Thirdly, this
film has an outstanding supporting cast, including the always great
Stanley Tucci, Grey's Anatomy vet Eric Dane, Kristen Bell, Cam
Gigandet, and Alan Cumming, and these folks bring enough liveliness to
save even the worst film, but here, they only add to the fun and
excitement.

The story is really nothing new. Small-town girl Ali (Aguilera) leaves
her job as an Iowan waitress, and heads for the big lights of Los
Angeles. She stumbles upon a burlesque club run by Tess (Cher), starts
working her way up, and eventually becomes the main attraction, with
her intense vocal range and elaborate interpretations of dance numbers,
which turns out to be a godsend for Tess, who is about to lose her
club. She starts living with the charismatic and sexy bartender Jack
(Cam Gigandet), after her apartment gets robbed. Romance ensues, and
things go from there.

Cliché, right? It's been done before, right? Right. There isn't a
section of this film that isn't even a little bit corny. But, that's
not to say it's not a load of fun. I'm sorry, Harry Potter, Burlesque
is the film event of the Thanksgiving holiday. Christina Aguilera isn't
a fantastic actress, but she's better than you would expect her to be,
and her song-and-dance numbers, obviously, are fantastic, as one would
expect.

She and Cher have fantastic chemistry, as well as Cher and Stanley
Tucci. All of these actors blend together so well, that they seem to
compliment each other, enhancing each performance. And, I was rather
disappointed to see that Cher only sang two out of the film's ten
musical numbers, but it's safe to say that that's not enough,
considering that she can still belt the hell out of these songs.
However, Cher's obvious plastic surgeries don't help her performance,
considering that her face barely moves throughout the entire picture,
but she's still able to pull this role off, somehow.

Steven Antin is a director whom I've never heard of, however, I was
fairly impressed. The film is directed with impeccable taste, and the
writing is very quick and clever, and humorous, even when a little
corny.

However, what really saves Burlesque in the end is its elaborate song-
and-dance numbers. Soon after the movie begins, you know what kind of
film you're in for. Even as cliché after cliché presents themselves,
Burlesque has enough razzle-dazzle magic to outweigh its faults, and to
leave you dancing in the aisles as you leave this film.
<|_=00=_|>
The musical numbers reminded me of "Sweet Charity" and the camera moves
around the Kit Kat Klub style room like Fosse's camera did in "Cabaret"
The similarities stop there. The film is a brave attempt but the
writing walks a very, very thin line. Was Steve Antin trying to be
funny? Some of the lines were received with loud guffaws and there is
no way to know if that was the intention because, personally, I felt
like cringing. Never mind. It was fun. Christina has a powerful voice
but not film presence and Cher is a fearless icon but she had so little
to show for it. The best performance is, without question, by Stanley
Tucci. The songs work at the moment you're watching them being
performed but I couldn't hum a tune now, 48 hours later, for the life
of me. So, I was entertained and in the big scheme of things, I guess
that's enough
<|_=00=_|>
I can easily summarize this film into short sentences. This film has
everything, everything but a plot that is. What you should expect from
Burlesque is almost two hours of high powered entertainment. Burlesque
is just that, entertaining. If you are going to this film to witness a
great storyline unfold don't go see this film. However, if you want to
be entertained with great vocals from Christina Aguilera and Cher in
addition to great acting from Peter Gallagher, Stanley Tucci, Alan
Cummings, and again Cher then this film is a must see. I must say prior
to the screening that I attended, I was very apprehensive that I was
going to see a product that resembled a "Nine" / "Coyote Ugly" blend of
a film, but I was certainly wrong. Burlesque holds itself above the
rest of the films in its category. The film obviously cost a lot to
produce and I believe that the money was well spent. Cher's performance
was excellent. Say what you want about the person, but the actress
conveys a confidence level in front of the camera as though she has
done this a hundred times. Stanley Tucci is also quite merit worthy in
this film. His performance in "Lovely Bones" is still haunting and his
role as Cher's right-hand gay best friend/costume designer in this film
just shows what incredible range this actor has. The costume design,
casting, choreography and set design for this film are also worthy of
mention. You can count on this film definitely being nominated in the
Best Film in Comedy or Musical category for the Golden Globes in
December. This film will also do incredibly well at the box office. I
would have no problem watching this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie wore out both my BS detector and my suspension of disbelief.

It should be prosecuted under the Trades Description Act, and sued by
Rob Marshall and the estate of Bob Fosse for plagiarism. Because it
ain't burlesque, and it rips off too many elements from Marshall's film
of "Chicago" and Fosse's choreography, for me to count.

This movie is as true a glimpse of the real burlesque scene, as
"Showgirls" was of the real traditional Vegas showgirl scene. But
"Showgirls" had a slightly more believable plot.

Here's a suggestion for Steve Antin: How about making a movie called
"Girl Group", with only one musical number in it? After all, you've
given us a movie called "Burlesque" with only ONE actual burlesque
number in it. The rest is just a rip-off of your sister's Pussycat
Dolls routines. Especially that final number. THAT was the song that
took so long for the hero to write??? THAT was the song that was so
deeply personal that he couldn't share it with anyone until he felt it
was perfect??? No wonder my BS detector wore out.

The costumes are gorgeous (hence the 3 stars from me), but they're the
only things that made this movie remotely tolerable. And the camera
never held still long enough for me to get a really good look at them.
(Note to all directors: If you're spending that much on costumes, for
god's sake, let us see them and appreciate them!) Also, as someone who
is active in the burlesque scene, I must point out that merely wearing
a burlesque style costume does NOT make someone into a burlesque
performer any more than wearing spike heels and a miniskirt makes a nun
into a streetwalker.

Vocally, Christina Aguilera and Cher both have amazing voices. But does
every song they sing have to be a power-ballad with all those full-out
wails and cadenzas? Enough, already! Those songs and vocal gymnastics
lose their dramatic power when they're all we ever get to hear.

All in all, "Burlesque" was 2 hours of my life that I won't be getting
back.
<|_=00=_|>
So, it's a movie about a lounge with signers and dancers. It's not a
musical, but you expect to see dancing, sexy and songs. Burlesque
delivers on all account, it's sexy without being naked, it's fun, the
music is great.

I don't know why so many reviewers here say that Christina Aguilera is
a bad actress, she gave quite a decent performance considering that,
well, she is not an actress. And while Cher is not on the screen all
the time, she is fantastic. For a woman in her sixties, wow...

The movie made me buy the soundtrack, Christina know how to sing and
she is very good.

As for the background stories (lounge on the verge of closing, love
interest), they are there to give the movie some meaning but are not
overly invading on the main content witch is signing and dancing. Those
background stories are were the movie lost my 2 points, because you
don't quite feel the urgency, stress of Tess money problems, everything
runs like there is no problem at all.

All in all, it's a good, entertaining movie. It's gonna be in my
blu-ray collection, just for the music and dancing alone.
<|_=00=_|>
At times I can be a bit snobby about movies. I am more attracted to
slow artsy fartsy movies that try make grand points about society or
existence. However, not all movies are to meant to challenge social
structures or deliver underlying meanings and here there certainly is
none of that.... and I liked it! 

Burlesque is a little cheesy, yup, filled with clichés, uh huh,
predictable, you betcha! That is all part of it's charm though. It set
out to be a fun romp with some sexy outfits and entertaining song
numbers and it delivered. There is no great villain, there is no great
backstabbing - which in someways is more realistic. It doesn't try to
have an overly deep plot. It knows it's superficial and embraces it.
Did anyone ever doubt Christina could sing? Her voice is amazing and
her acting ain't bad either. Cher is well, Cher and how can anyone not
love her? Stanley Tucci certainly steals the show while Cam Gigandet
provides some delicious eye candy. If you want to be visually and
audibly entertained for about an hour and a half, shut your brain off,
sit back and enjoy Burlesque. Disclaimer: this recommendation does not
pertain to men, unless you are a man of the Cher-loving variety.
Despite a burlesque club technically being a 'strip club' this movie is
certainly geared for the ladies.
<|_=00=_|>
I, unlike a lot of people in lieu to it's box office results, really
wanted to see Burlesque. I am not necessarily a Christina Aguilera fan,
though she has made a lot of songs I like, same deal for Cher, and
though the movie did not seem like it would be a 10/10, it looked
insanely fun for my tastes and I had been invited by my friend and her
mom to go see it with them. We were all fairly excited, after seeing
the previews and hearing of what reception it did get from audiences
was generally well perceived, and, directly after it was over, were
pleased to admit that all three of us really enjoyed it and were not
disappointed.

There is not really many downsides to this movie, in my honest opinion,
that can not be made up for with other material. For example: The
songs, while not all are memorable, make the movie ultimately more
enjoyable, and have some nice choreography to the dances that were made
for them. "Show Me How to Burlesque" is my favorite song, with Cher's
"You Haven't Seen the Last of Me" and another song, that incongruently
and infuriatingly is not listed in the soundtrack titles on here, and
did not have a really huge part in the movie other than it being my
favorite dance sequence, besides "Show Me How to Burlesque", being two
other very catchy songs in the movie, as well. The others felt like
they were there merely to fill time, because I personally did not find
them that special.

There's not really any brand new, awesome material, but it really is
much better than people would expect in terms of entertainment and
professionalism. Christina Aguilera has got some pipes. Whether you
like her vocals or not, she can hit and hold a note, and she really is
not that bad of an actress. She wasn't in this film, at least, and
while we are at it, neither was Cher; both gave pretty believable and
likable performances. Everyone gave a likable performance both acting
and music wise, especially my man candy Cam Gigandet. You could grate
cheese on that boy's body. There is a nice touch of comedy here and
there from Alan Cumming, Stanley Tucci, and a very cute and well done
scene between Aguilera and Gigandet that involves a nice shot of
Gigandet's bottom and another mishap in that scene that will make
anyone crave "the box of cookies" at that exact moment. (I love Cam
Gigandet.)

Moving on, another aspect is the movie has got excellent, sparkly
costumes during some flashy, risqué sequences that could possibly make
anyone have a seizure who was not thoroughly prepared. Another of my
favorite things is it has got beautiful, and I mean beautiful lighting,
and wonderful make-up in many scenes making the actors, actresses and
settings look picturesque and crisp. Steve Antin, while not an amazing
director, does a very nice job, and does an even better job with the
writing, even if the script is not Oscar worthy. Like I have said, it
is not going to be held in cinema history as the next Casablanca, or
Godfather, few movies are nowadays, but this was an enjoyable
experience for many reasons and I encourage anyone who thinks they can
handle it for what it is to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Burlesque may have started out as a dazzling, lip-sync singing French
twist sensation but when a talented girl from a small town takes center
stage belching out loud piercing notes screaming with soul, "You know
something got a hold of you and won't let go."

The director starts out with scenes in dingy, crusty locations,
overshadowed with filtered sunlight to create an outdated, old fashion
look. These scenes failed to capture a unique cinematic vision, instead
the views were dark and dull. His blend of melodrama and music worked
better than Chicago because singing was sung only on stage. No phantom
of the opera to bring tears, just a busting out movie that went
straight to the point--I want to sing!

Ms small town girl named Ali, played by Christina Aguilera, changed
cities but couldn't quite change her waitress uniform. She worked her
way to that familiar job, when charmed by neon lights, she opened the
door to a new world, Welcome to Burlesque. As she looked around, she
watched the bickering and cat fights among the dancers and how
shamefully patrons weren't getting their drinks. So, she took charge by
befriending Jack the bartender played by Cam Gigandet, then moved from
the unemployment line to waiting on tables and serving drinks. Tess,
the club owner played by Cher, told her she has great enthusiasm and
terrible timing. However, in the midst of all this tension whiplash,
Tess told Ali to take off her coat and get to work.

Ali studied hard by reading every burlesque book ever written. She
demonstrated a fierce determination that she could do every dance,
every scene, step by step better than the other girls at the audition .
She was impressive and landed the job. Now here's the catch 22, people
pay to see the dancers lip sync to the great stars like Marilyn
Monroe's "Diamonds are a Girls Best Friend." There is no live singing
at Burlesque. What is a girl to do with all that vocal talent? Well,
she could be lucky to have a vengeful enemy like Nikki who turns off
the pre-recorded music during her lip sync stage performance. Surely
for Nikki that has to be the biggest mistake, huge mistake, right?
Right. So the rest, as they say, is history! Tess rewrites the whole
show around Ali's voice and the small town girl is now center stage on
Hollywood Sunset Stripe.

Cher's performance was better than great, it was awesome. She delivers
a warm touchy feeling convincing me she owned the club, she loved the
club and she wasn't selling her club. Hard set and beautiful, standing
tall and confident, singing " You Haven't Seen the Last of Me;" Cher is
a true goddess, definitive of stage and production. I needed to see
more and more of her . You can't get enough of Cher and her makeup, her
hair and her famous, I know everything attitude.

Christina is the sweetest part of the movie. She worked Burlesque from
the beginning to the end with an Eminem's 8 mile state of mind, you
only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow. Without a doubt,
she definitely lost herself in the music, the moment, and the dancing.
When you know you got it, you go get it. She wore skimpy cultured
pearls, juicy bareback couture glittering with diamonds, and holding
ostrich feathers only, as she paraded the stage singing slow songs, old
songs and hip hop songs. Her roommate Jack, black eyeliner by night, is
the movie's secret eye candy. Well built, nice teeth, and shy, he gives
us a little touch of burlesque with his steamy and lusty private moves.
And of course we need to mention Sean played by Stanley Tucci. He held
the movie together or should I say he held Tess together.

Burlesque is an eye-popping never boring cinematic experience that will
entertain you with grandeur songs from the present and the past. As you
experience this razzle dazzle movie, you can actually feel the music.
To me, Burlesque mirrors Purple Rain's electrifying energy that
generated from a club of talented, struggling performers and a sidekick
love affair. Christina and Cher in Burlesque will be remembered like
Prince in Purple Rain. You have to see it again and again, because true
talent never ages, its ageless. I just loved every mind- blowing
performance and I'm sure you will too, so GO see it!!
<|_=00=_|>
The state of American film in the 21st Century has been generally
abysmal but nowhere is it more evident than in the film musical. Taking
the most honored of the period Chicago, a Fosse wanta be with bad
performances and forgettable tunes as the benchmark it is more than
evident all singing all dancing has lost its voice and more than a
step. The latest entry and every bit the tepid much ado about nothing
heat and light display of flaccid musical storytelling as the Oscar
winner (an even bigger comment on the unimaginative state of the movie
business) is the insipidly slick Burlesque.

Stop me if you've heard this. Young impressionable girl with massive
hidden talent leaves the land of corn for the bright lights of LA where
she stumbles upon a run down anachronism with a crusty but
understanding owner still in it for love of the game who gives the kid
a break and, well you can fill in the rest.

In the role of Judy Garland Christine Aguleria sings the blues with
impressive voice but it's all plastic soul and slumming for the former
mouseketeer who presents an unintentionally jarring visual context of
an Aryan uber babe singing Bessie Smith. Speaking of plastic Cher all
polished and waxed like an antique Oldsmobile splits her time offering
sage advice and sarcasm. In addition she does a couple of tunes with
her signature howl wrapped as always in distracting outfit and opulent
stagecraft to soften its blow. There's some male characters whose
purpose it seems is to stand around with expressions of awe for the
divas and of course the serious pyrotechnics surrounding the noir dance
numbers that attempts to put some make-up on this pig but in the end it
is all forced Fosse.
<|_=00=_|>
Like the name implies, "Burlesque" was lofty, dramatic and musically
ambitious. Unlike the name, I think it was too serious to be much of a
parody of stage-shows. Cher is an actress, an Academy Award winning
actress at that, but there was minimal evidence of intentional
self-caricaturing.

A small-town Iowa waitress pursues her dreams and high-tails it to Los
Angeles. Ali has way too much audacity for her own good but it does get
her a job, two scrumptious boyfriends, and into the burlesque show. Of
course it does. Alice, you are in wonderland now. At least when lines
like that are delivered by Stanley Tucci they are pretty funny.

The film did have a plot with questions along the lines of: Will Ali
realize her dreams of singing and dancing? Will she meet the man of her
dreams? And more importantly, will Tess (Cher) save her club from
financial ruin? The latter storyline might actually matter if the rest
of the film wasn't littered with outlandish sets, costumes and
lighting. But "Burlesque" is also what it claims to beentertaining.
Well, mildly entertaining. Christina Aguilera can sing, Cher and
Stanley Tucci have good comedic chemistry, and Cam Gigandet is one of
the hottest young actors around.
