
I had read Prof. Bynum's excellent books about the Jones County
rebellion and so had been looking forward to the movie. Though it,
inevitably, changes the story (you'd need a dozen hours to tell it
completely), it remains faithful to the spirit of the rebellion and the
characters of Newton and Rachel Knight.

There were a number of Unionist uprisings in the South during the Civil
War (a fact that was carefully expunged from my history textbooks,
growing up in the South, maybe to justify all the monuments celebrating
the glorious Olde South that lurk around public parks and buildings to
intimidate black Southerners - I guess). What other purpose could they
possibly serve? To celebrate a defeat?

This movie finally points out the obvious: the Confederacy lost the
war, but the planter class which owned the Confederacy did their
damnedest to win the peace. Instead of being lynched like Mussolini,
Confederate leaders returned to their lives, their plantations, just
like the war had never happened. Even the slaves they lost were
returned to them in the form of unpaid sharecroppers. The misery of the
lives of freedmen is one of the strongest images to take away from this
film, their alleged freedom snatched from them. No 40 acres and a mule
to serve as some form reparation, they went on to endure a century of
domestic terrorism at the hand of the KKK.

The movie itself is beautifully and sensitively acted and filmed. There
are scenes of great brutality but which are never gratuitous. There are
also scenes of great beauty. There are scenes which have enormous
relevance to politics in America today where racism is the hallmark of
one Presidential candidate and income inequality the hallmark of
another.

Claims by the radical left that this movie is about a "white savior"
are just silly. If anything, Gary Ross has eliminated most of the
real-life incidents which dealt with Newton Knight's own actions on
behalf of freedmen, probably to make the film more palatable to the
radical left who, like the extreme right-wing can never be satisfied
anyway. I do wish the radical left, rather than criticizing
well-intentioned liberals like Gary Ross, would attack the real enemy.
The State of Mississippi still incorporates the Confederate flag in its
state flag... and social justice warriors are quibbling about degrees
of "white saviordom"? 

Matthew McConaughey hasn't put a foot wrong since Lincoln Lawyer and
his performance here is among his best work. American actors are rarely
convincing playing period roles but he totally inhabits the role -
scraggly beard, greasy hair, terrible teeth and attitude. He looks like
the daguerrotype of a tired and desperate Civil War soldier. Gugu
Mbatha-Raw has flown too long under the radar: stunningly touching as
an early 19th century biracial heiress in Belle and totally believable
as a pop star headed for a nervous breakdown in Beyond the Lights, she
brings a luminous quality to Rachel a resourceful woman who defined her
own path despite the oppression of racist Southern culture.

Mahershala Ali's character won't be found in Prof. Bynum's books. The
names of the maroons who fought with the Knight Company have been lost
to history, so he is a composite character invented by Gary Ross. His
character travels from runaway slave to armed insurgent to voting
rights activist in Reconstruction. Ali imbues his character with wit,
charm, warmth and extraordinary courage.

Keri Russell is fine in a small role. She gives her heartbroken
character dignity and resilience.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I have always enjoyed movies based on actual events or real people, so
I was anticipating going to see this movie. I did a little research on
the history it depicts and it was a part of the Civil War that I knew
nothing about. I was quite disappointed when the reviews came out and
most of the critics rated it very low. If you are looking for a war
drama that is non stop action with lots of battles, massive explosions
and bloody scenes from start to finish, you will be disappointed. If
you like a movie that has good writing, an actual story and good
acting, you will like it.

The movie starts pretty much like any Civil War movie with battles,
death and bloody bodies, but it progresses past that to the point where
some people rebel against the Confederacy for the atrocities they
commit against the southern farmers. The story is well told with some
actual dates and facts flashed on the screen from time to time which
sort of gives it the feel of a documentary. It helps keep things in
perspective without being intrusive.

If I had anything to complain about, it would be then length and scope
of the film. The movie ran about 2-1/2 hours. At about 2 hours, I
thought it was over but then it moved into the Klan, voting
intimidation and general mistreatment of the freed slaves as well as
having a 100 year tie in to future generation. It was as if they tried
to jam these events in to make it more politically acceptable to
Hollywood. I just felt that they went beyond what the movie was
actually to be about.
<|_=00=_|>
9.25 of 10. The many shades of slave and involuntary servitude come to
light in this story. A film that's true enough that it deserves to be
something shown to students to help their interest and expand their
understanding of American history, but too gruesome, violent, and
explicit in language for the typical school.

It may also be a little too quiet and slow moving for some, but the
depth to which the film explores obscure American Civil War facts and
events, both during and after, makes one curiouser and curiouser to see
where it goes.

This is a rare film that you can watch a trailer of, or not, and not
have it ruin the film. In fact, it would be very difficult to anyone to
write a spoiler for this. It's also something you want to watch from
beginning to end, or at least until the credits shift to white text on
black. It may not be the ideal theater film, but it definitely is
worthy of a hard copy for your book/DVD shelf.
<|_=00=_|>
"Free State of Jones" is a moving, authentic, important film. Matthew
McConaughey gives an Oscar-worthy performance as Newton Knight, an
historic figure. I forgot I was watching Matthew McConaughey and felt
that I was watching Newton Knight. I've really never seen a performance
quite like McConaughey's here. His Newt Knight is the most manly man in
any room  or swamp  and yet he is also as tender as a mother. 

In the early Civil War battle scenes, he plays a nurse. Knight is not
shown mowing down the enemy with impressive, explosive gunfire. Rather,
he is shown risking enemy fire in order to save men's lives, or to
retrieve and bury the corpse of a boy shot in battle on his first day.
My tears flowed freely during these scenes. Later, Knight himself cries
after one of his men is hanged. But Knight gets his revenge, an
eye-for-an-eye revenge scene that I won't soon forget. 

Newton Knight was a white Mississippi farmer. He was the grandson of a
slaveholder, but Knight owned no slaves himself. He served in the
Confederate army, but deserted in 1862, after serving for almost a
year. He was outraged by the Twenty Negro Law, that allowed families
who owned twenty slaves to exempt one family member from service for
every twenty slaves they owned. 

Knight and other deserters formed The Free State of Jones, declaring
their loyalty to the Union, and flying the stars and stripes rather
than the stars and bars. After the war, Knight worked for
Reconstruction and married Rachel, a freed slave woman. His children
also married cross-racially. He died in 1922. As might be expected, he
is a controversial figure in Mississippi. Fans of the Confederacy
denounce him as a traitor. Others celebrate him as one white Southerner
who had a conscience and resisted white supremacy. 

Newt Knight was clearly someone with a bucketload of charisma. His
power inspired men to fight to the death against their own nation.
McConaughey radiates charisma in this role. He is masterful and yet
intimate. I'd follow this Newt Knight into battle and feel proud to do
so. 

"Free State of Jones" is receiving negative reviews. It's easy to see
why. There is something in this film to anger multiple grievance
mongers. 

First, race hustlers will hate this movie. Race hustlers want the
official story to be that all whites are supremacists and all blacks
are heroic. A film that depicts a white man who worked for black rights
is taboo. Race hustlers anathematized "Mississippi Burning" and "The
Help" for the same reason. Such a shame that the race hustlers'
ideological blindfolds make it impossible for them to appreciate great
art. 

Liberals might hate this film for a couple of other reasons. I don't
know if I've seen a movie where almost every scene hinges on how guns
are used. Almost everyone is armed, and uses those weapons to keep
breathing and to settle disputes. Even little girls have guns and use
them heroically. Second amendment fans may love this film. It depicts
what they dream of: oppressed citizenry taking up arms to defeat their
own government. 

In addition to clinging to their guns, these rebels cling to their God
and their Bibles. This is one of the most religious American films I've
seen in a while. It's an historical fact that Newt Knight was a
devoutly religious Primitive Baptist  he didn't drink, for example.
The film drives home Knight's Christianity. He is shown in a long scene
using a quill to record a birth in his Bible. In one heartbreaking
scene, a slave who has been sexually molested survives psychologically
by reciting verses from Genesis. "Free State of Jones" practices a
muscular Christianity. One eye-for-an-eye scene takes place in a
church. 

Republicans will be torn about "Free State of Jones." On the one hand,
Knight, like many populist leaders, preaches against economic
inequality. "No man should be poor just so that someone else can be
rich." I can hear theater seats squeak as Republicans head for the
exits. Knight's words, though, reflect the facts. Poor white
Southerners were sabotaged by the slave economy and they knew it.
That's why they deserted. 

But Republicans, if they sit through the entire film, will see how the
Republican Party was the favored choice of freed slaves in the
post-Civil-War era. 

There is a narrative problem in the film. The viewer expects "Free
State of Jones" to end after the Civil War. I actually began tying my
sneakers, readying to leave the theater. But the film keeps going in
what feels like an anti-climax. Gary Ross, the filmmaker, wants to make
a point: the Civil War was *not* the happy ending. The KKK rose up, and
Jim Crow became entrenched. Black men who tried to exercise their right
to vote were lynched. This is an important point, but the film should
have been better structured so its narrative flow didn't stop before
the film itself did. 

"Free State of Jones" was clearly made by sticklers for authenticity.
Everyone looks dirty and tired. The clothes look like clothes people
wore in the nineteenth century. A confederate officer's uniform looks
baggy and tacky, not sparkling and admirable. Scenes are shot in
lamplight. I loved this aspect of the film, as will Civil War
re-enactors.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the movie and would have rated it an 8 but for some pacing
issues, including how they awkwardly managed the flash forward scenes
to the sub-plot with Newton Knight's descendant.

I'm not a history buff, but also not opposed to learn about compelling
stories, and this was one. Who knew that there was this sub-war going
on in the middle of the Civil War, or about this Lincoln-esque southern
guy willing to fight the good fight? Knight was an inspiring guy who
somehow saw forest through the trees and had courage to do right in a
world with wrong going on all around him.

The acting was quite good. I particularly enjoyed fresh faces like
Mahershala Ali (Moses) and Gugu-Mbatha Raw (Rachel). The script was not
full of period clichés or overly polish, things I appreciated in a
movie like Tombstone, but could have been a distraction in Free State
which fortunately kept it real.

Matthew McConaughey was excellent in the lead as the gritty Newton
Knight. Not as gritty as his brother Rooster, but the grit suits him.
Very believable. But this is not a movie that shines due to his good
looks, rather from his good acting.

Some of the more critical reviews made comment about FSoJ as
"hopelessly adrift", "trips over its own themes as it stumbles
aimlessly," "is confusing", and "It's not that the story itself is hard
to follow, but Gary Ross' script and direction fail to make clear key
personal relationships in the film, and throughout its 2 ¼ hours, it
makes the audience wonder where the story is going and whether this
movie has much of a point at all." 

Wow! All I can tell you is that I did not know the story, and there
were some moments where it fumbles, but I kept up with it just fine.
For me the movie's strengths far outweighed its weaknesses. Definitely
not an average or sub-par movie  the subject matter alone puts it
ahead of so many other films.

At times I questioned the casting on some of the supporting roles, but
that may be Hollywood conditioning thing, and on reflection this cast
probably showed what people were like back in that day.

After the movie I read up on the Davis Knight story. He was the great
grandson who was embattled in a miscegenation trial in 1940s
Mississippi. He was 1/8 African American, looked white (in the movie)
and married a white woman; a crime back in the day in Mississippi. Have
to wonder why they didn't prosecute the white wife. Hmm.

It goes to show you how much times have changed: now days in
Mississippi Batman can marry Superman, dogs can marry cats, and
democrats can marry republicans. You won't see any of that in Raqqa.
It's a crazy mixed up world folks.

To sum things up, it's not a perfect movie, and there were some issues
making it hard to track at times, but a fascinating sub-plot to the
real Civil War, it kept my interest, and the acting was good. Any movie
that has me reading up on its story after the film has got to be worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
It's an interesting film to come out during the month of June. On the
surface, it appears to be Oscar bait. But it has its fair share of
issues. However, they shouldn't be enough to hinder any enjoyment of
the film.

Amidst the impressive set pieces and Confederate South backdrop, Free
State of Jones follows Newton Knight, played by Matthew McConaughey, a
deserted soldier who starts an uprising against his former Confederate
army. He leads a group of escaped slaves and runaway farm workers under
the credo that no man shall be owned, and poor men should not be losing
their lives so the rich can get richer.

It's a truly powerful film about freedom and an earnest man who
believes in equality--even on a subconscious level. Yet, it's
interesting to note that everything between Knight and his comrades is
all good. There is a minor spat between him and four of his men, but it
lasts all of about ten minutes of screen time. Other than that, there
isn't much conflict within his rule.

There is, however, much outside hostility. That's the whole point of
the movie. The action scenes are both eye-opening and jaw dropping.
About as real as any Civil War film can be. And there are several
scenes that are so lifelike that even the snootiest critic must
acknowledge its integrity.

The script isn't perfect. Some potential nuances are left on the table.
Certain inner struggles that Knight faces are sped through, when they
would have significantly benefited the character's development. We
don't catch enough inward glimpses. At times, the circumstances seem
overcome too easily. And it's not McConaughey's fault. I'm not sure if
I can imagine anyone else playing the part. 

But the main story is told the right way. It serves its purpose as we
come closer to understanding the struggle of the slaves and
impoverished farmers. It's not just a fight for freedom, but for
equality--which this movie proves may not always be the same thing.

At 139 minutes, it never feels long. By the end, you still feel like
there should have been more.

Twizard Rating: 91
<|_=00=_|>
I'm surprised to see that this movie is currently averaging 6.5/10
stars--I found it to be worthy of an eight, and I even flirted with
ranking it even higher.

The movie tells of a counter-rebellion in a Mississippi town during the
Civil War, and is based on a true story. The film is done in a style
that emulates "Twelve Years A Slave", and as such it deals with topics
of slavery and secession in a way that is poignant but also
constructive.

In fairness, there are a few things that the film could be rightly
critiqued for. The opening scenes of the film are fairly gory and
filled with wartime violence, but fortunately that does not dominate
the movie. As it progresses, the plot of the film does meander a bit,
including a fast forward to a scene from some 85 years after the
majority of the film that is interspersed throughout the rest of the
movie. That technique felt a bit forced at times, but at the end of the
film it made more sense why it had been used. 

Additionally, the movie tells its main tale over the course of more
than a decade, which makes for a bit of an odd cinematic journey--but,
in my view, none of these issues are so problematic that they greatly
take away from the movie. Rather, what we have here is a film that was
desperately trying to be Oscar worthy, and that perhaps pushes the
creative envelope a tad bit too far.

But again, there is more good here than bad. The story that the movie
has to tell is both engaging and important--engaging in that it
captures your attention and makes you care about the subject matter in
a captivating way, and important in that it draws attention to
historical facts that you probably were not aware of. I know it
certainly highlighted some elements of Reconstruction that were new to
me.

Regarding acting, this was perhaps not McConaughey's best role, but
it's also not his worst. The supporting cast turns out a strong
performance, and all in all the movie is well made.

That said, I'm going with 8/10 stars on this one. It's not the best
Civil War flick ever made, and perhaps pales in comparison with other
recent historical dramas like "Twelve Years" and "The Revenant", but
it's nevertheless a great movie that deserves a "Very Good" score.
<|_=00=_|>
What is a society that knows the price of a man but not his worth as a
human being? Probably that's the irony of being an industrial
civilization. While it aims to improve the status of mankind, it also
requires lot of labour. The cheaper it is, the better. That's where
slavery comes into the picture. Slavery is a function of economics
alone. Race, colour etc. are merely justifications for it. It's
ultimately the conflict between empowered and the weak. Free State Of
Jones puts it quite succinctly and with absolute conviction. There's no
ifs and buts that blur the issue of freedom. It doesn't try to distract
us with metaphors and confusing moralities. Its very clear in
intention, much like Newton Knight, who's life this movie is based on. 

Free State of Jones is a very entertaining film for its performances.
Mathew McConaughey is often joked about for his intense style but in
this role is where you can see why he's an Academy Award winner. Never
mind those impersonations of him. He is John Woodroof, he is Newton
Knight. There are also very astute performances from Gugu Mbatha-Raw
and Mahershala Ali. It has a slew of characters like in any historical
drama but thankfully all are in proper proportions. No wonder it comes
from the director of The Hunger Games! Another striking quality of the
movie is the soundtrack. Use of traditional as well as original songs
bring a noticeable gravity to the narrative. 

Apart from the brilliant cinematography and direction, this movie has a
unique perspective to dealing with a subject as sensitive as this. It
transcends the time and period when this story takes place. While the
main thread of the narration tells the legendary story of Knight who
goes absconding from confederate army and later creates the Free State
of Jones in the midst of raging American Civil War, the other thread
follows his great-great-great grandson Davis Knight undergoing trial
for mixed-race marriage. Yes, even after 85 years, it was still an
issue. When you watch it, you'll find the ridiculousness of it, all the
more blatant. Well, this review does not mean to judge the laws of the
land nor the way of life of the society. However, if at all you are
concerned about the historical accuracy of the film then you should
know that its one of the very few period dramas that carries this
impressive a list of academic consultants to its credit. 

The story of the Free State of Jones is not merely fascinating. It's a
glorious story of a glorious man. Much like his namesake who discovered
theory of Gravity, Newton Knight discovers something about man. You may
understand why it could be discomforting to watch if not with an open
mind. It is a jab at the ages of segregationist politics, but unlike
most films with liberal agendas, it is not cryptic and morose. Its too
direct. Too simple to fathom. It doesn't paint Newton Knight as the
saviour but only as a hero that he is. He is as deceived and victimized
by the system as everyone else. Only difference is that he had an idea
way ahead of his times and he had a chance to implement it. Nature was
in favour of the man and even when the times were exceptionally odd for
his principles to find ground, he endured. Newton Knight went on to
live to a ripe old age of 84 which in itself is astonishing in the
1800s. Thank you Gary Ross for sharing this incredible story on silver
screen. Too bad it didn't do well commercially.
<|_=00=_|>
A nice piece of American History and probably the best role of the
great actor Matthew Mcconaughey.

The Casting is also very good, Specially Gugu Mbatha-Raw or Mahershala
Ali (seen in "Hunger Games" or "Predators" in 2010).

Even if some images are really violent, the film keeps a lot of beauty
and show the real courage of the mens who decide to fight for the right
things.

Don't miss this film under any circumstances!

Much more interesting than the movie "Lincoln" signed by Steven
Spielberg and more instructive than " 12 years a slave " of the
director Steve McQueen.
<|_=00=_|>
A powerful action-drama about a local Mississippi rebellion against the
Confederate rebellion, brought about by Southern corruption,
conscripting men, and confiscating supplies and livestock, without
reimbursement, in order to support the army in its fight for the
Southern plantation system. The last straw for the main character,
Newton Knight, superbly played by Matthew McConaughey, was the passing
of the 20 slave law that exempted 1 white man for every 20 slavesin
order to prevent a slave rebellion what with so many white males being
off to war. It's a gritty depiction of the sordid underbelly of an
already corrupt slave economy. It's a reminder, as if we needed one, of
the reprehensible conditions some of our ancestors (on both sides)
imposed on their society; but neither justifies either hate or guilt
this far removed from it or the Jim Crow laws. It also depicts the
courageous good things that others got right. The end of the movie
balances things with a political statement when it shows a mixed-race
group, armed with guns I must add, marching into town on election day
and demanding Republican ballots. It's easy to forget that Lincoln and
the Abolitionists were Republicans; while Klansmen (including "former"
Klansmen) occupied some of our highest offices, and were allied with
Democrats into the 21st Century.
