
If you like to be entertained and you enjoy seeing some of the best
actresses working today, you should see this film. Ellen Page is a
delight. I thought she did more with this role than she did with Juno.
Kristen Wiig was her usual funny self, The rest of the cast, including
Zoe Bell (excellent in Tarantino's Deathproof), Juliette Lewis, Marcia
Gay Harding, Daniel Stern, Drew, Jimmy Fallon, all performed well. That
says something about Drew's directing. She elicited excellent
performances out of her cast, the film was well shot, the sound and
editing were nicely done and I look forward to seeing what Drew can do
on her next effort.

The premiere of Whip It, which took place on September 13th, 2009 at
TIFF was enthusiastically well received by the audience.

And by the way Drew, you looked smashing at the premiere!
Congratulations!
<|_=00=_|>
Drew Barrymore is well known for her quirky acting and distinct
personality. But now movie goers across the country will begin seeing
her in a new light- director.

"Whip It," which stars Ellen Page (Juno), Marcia Harden, and several
other notable actors/actresses is a fun filled, action packed,
emotional film that forces you to give an old fashioned thumbs up as
you leave.

Page is fantastic in her role, perfectly capturing the rebellious,
curious character of Bliss Cavendar. Her innocent face leaves you
rooting for her while at the same time wondering if her decisions are
ultimately right. Harden again plays her role flawlessly, down to her
own hidden dreams disguised under her thick shell.

Unlike most "rise to the top" movies, Whip It is believable. It seems
real at all times. It feels as though all of us at one point in our
lives were like Bliss, longing to live a different life.

If you want a great night at the movies, if you want a solid movie with
enjoyable memories, and if you want to answer that question of "I
wonder how Drew Barrymore would be as a director," go see Whip It.
You'll be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended the World Premiere of "Whip It" at the 2009 Toronto
International Film Festival. This is quite an impressive directorial
debut for Drew Barrymore (who also stars).

Barrymore works with a Shauna Cross script (based on her own novel
Derby Girl) and an all-star cast featuring Ellen Page, Marcia Gay
Harden, Daniel Stern, Kristen Wiig, Landon Pigg, Jimmy Fallon, Eve, and
Juliette Lewis.

Page is Bliss Cavendar, whose mother (Harden) sees her daughter in
gowns and crowns as she continues the family tradition of winning
beauty pageant trophies. But Bliss' chance encounter with a group of
roller skating girls plants other ideas in her head. Austin, Texas
happens to host a roller derby league, it's not too far away, and Bliss
finally sees a way out of her town (and gown). This sets up a family
confrontation that is the stuff of classic coming-of-age stories.

The film starts out slow then whips into action, its brilliant ensemble
cast hitting its stride and functioning like a winning roller derby
team (without the bruises). Then just when you think "Whip It" is
headed into sports rom-com cliché territory, surprising twists keep it
original and refreshing. But despite the multitude of talented actors,
Page clearly carries the film on her diminutive shoulders and is easily
in control of the material.

Production values are naturally first rate, with a vivid color palette
and in-your-face costumes that are occasionally (and appropriately)
over the top. Cinematographer Robert D. Yeoman and editor Dylan
Tichenor work perfectly in sync by reflecting both the snail's pace of
Bliss' home life vs. the secret one that flies on wheels around the
Austin track. Camera-work places the viewer directly into the action.
Despite having been filmed primarily in Michigan (due to favorable tax
credits) the Austin scenes are prominent, placing its landmarks in a
warm, affectionate light. One benefit of a big budget is the ability to
purchase music rights, and the result is a killer soundtrack that will
have the audience singing along. Be sure to stay for the second of the
two closing credits songs, the best ever cover of one of the greatest
rock 'n roll love songs of all time, The Association's "Never My Love."
Fox Searchlight scores again with Ellen Page, just like they did in
2007 with "Juno." Unlike that (at the time) dark horse, this is no
little indie. This is classic Hollywood comedy. "Whip It" is another
crowd pleaser to add to this year's must-see list.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a screening of this on Wednesday night (the 9th) with a Q&A
with Drew after the movie. This movie was superb. It was done very
well. I really liked the score and the music selection (from Peaches to
MGMT) was amazing. The story is really good and so realistic...it
wasn't cheap. Drew said she wanted to direct this movie because it was
close to her heart, and you can tell it is because of the final
product. You can tell she put a lot of effort into this one. Ellen Page
and Marcia Gay Harden were GREAT in this! I loved every scene they were
in together...(btw, Drew was REALLY nice and answered my question).
Kristen Wiig, Juliette Lewis, Drew, Landon Pigg, and the young lady who
plays Bliss's best friend Pash (I forget this actress's name) were
wonderful. There is everything in this movie...romance, drama, mild
humorous violence, and comedy. The film also explained the sport of
roller derbying very well. Good research Drew! My final rating: 9.5/10
GO SEE IT!
<|_=00=_|>
Enticed by free t-shirts and comfortable seats, two of my friends and I
made the journey to Alexandria last Saturday to catch the sneak Preview
of Whip It. Upon our arrival, our expectations were not high, as none
of us were fans of Drew Barrymore.

Once the movie began, however, our opinions quickly changed. Drew
Barrymore may not be the best actor, but she definitely has chops at
directing. Whip It is the tale of a girl who hates life in a small town
so she decides to rebel by joining a roller derby team with often
comedic results. The movie is much better than plot may sound. It has
some cliché moments but definitely beats the standard chick flick.

The film had a very unique feel, shifting between humorous and
hipster-esquire scenes. This also was probably my biggest problem with
the movie. The comedy often reminded me of something out of an Owen
Wilson film but then the dramatic scenes reminded me of something more
hip than Juno. That being said, the movie was much funnier than the
average chick flick.

Ellen Page is superb as usual, taking on a somewhat different role than
what I've seen before. It's impossible to compare her to her role in
Juno, as in Whip It she plays a much more introverted, but still
conflicted girl.

Andrew Wilson was probably the funniest character in the movie. I'm
actually wondering where this guy came from. The other two Wilson
brothers are huge and this guy just comes out of nowhere. Hopefully
we'll see more of him, as he is just as funny as Owen and Luke.

Drew Barrymore had a very small role in the movie. The few scenes she
is in are certainly not ruined by her. Landon Pigg should probably
stick to music, or maybe even quit that because he sucks at that. He is
not an actor, and that was prevalent throughout the movie. Jimmy Fallon
provided a solid array of one-liners as the quirky announcer for the
games.

The rest of the cast was solid, including Marcia Gay Harden as the
strict but loving mother. Juliette Lewis is good as the over-the-top,
intense player who takes things way too seriously. Alia Shawkat I
couldn't stand but I just can't stand her in general.

This movie definitely goes far beyond what any average chick flick
would. In fact it's hard to classify it as such, as I found it good and
I'm a dude. All things considered it's definitely worth checking out if
you're a fan of hip movies or just comedy in general.
<|_=00=_|>
In a sense this is a 6 or 7: a kind of kookie inspirational sports
movie - fun, energetic, easy to watch and easy to like.

However it gets a 9 because I cannot recall any film that truly takes
the conventions that male cinema does so well and wholesale translate
them to something that girls will love.

This film isn't sappy but it isn't about masculine heroism - it is
about women having a great time being truly what they are - not 1950
prissies, but punky, spikey, ironic, sexy and just plain fun.

Whip It has great roller derby sequences but more than that and more
than most male sports movies we get to see the personalities of those
involved and they shine.

Drew Barrymore knows films - she's being doing it all her life - and
this may look lightweight and simple, but the way the camera tells the
story is excellent - it is all well-composed and supported by a tip-top
script and a great cast. The romantic interest is too good-looking (of
course) and above all this is a film that will hit the target with
girls and women - but I promise you guys will really like it too.

Almost impossible not to enjoy we loved its free spirit and would
recommend it heartily to teenage girls as a film about doing your thing
and being strong.
<|_=00=_|>
Caught a preview of this and was really glad I did. The writing and
characters were very genuine. There were lots of laughs and emotion and
great moments you can't help but root for the girls. Drew, Ellen, Alia,
Kristin, Marcia, Juliet, Eve and the rest just tore it up on the
screen. It was nice to see some of these girls, like Drew & Kristin, in
roles as real people as opposed to just caricature's. I never knew how
roller derby was even played but now I'm gonna look for a local league
to go watch - those girls rock! I ended the film feeling like I was
best buds with all of them. This definitely shows that Drew will have
quite a career directing and that Juno wasn't a one-hit-wonder for
Ellen, either. You won't want to miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Drew Barrymore's directorial debut is a little gem. It could have been
called Juno on Skates, such are the comparisons, but that is not
necessarily a bad thing. Sure, Bliss Cavendar is almost identical to
Juno MacGuff (and not just because Ellen Page plays them both), it
follows a similar 'finding oneself' story arc, there are eccentric yet
lovable parents and it prides itself on the unique dialogue flowing
throughout; however Whip It has something up its sleeve to give it its
own recognisable edge  roller-derby. Fun doesn't come any thicker,
faster or sillier than roller-derbying. Barrymore understands this and
appropriately places the underground sport front and centre. The
editing is occasionally too quick meaning you can't always see what is
going on, but you are caught up in the atmosphere so much it doesn't
really matter.

Beneath the action is a coming-of-age tale that wears its heart on its
sleeve and bears all. Despite being slightly predictable and clichéd,
real life roller-derby competitor Shauna Cross' screenplay (adapted
from her own book) makes up for it with razor-sharp dialogue ("I can
grow the balls") and genuinely intriguing characters. Not to mention
the comedy littered throughout; never laugh-out-loud moments but you'll
be chuckling from start to finish. The romance subplot could have been
left out though, it doesn't hold your interest like the other story
elements and feels slightly unnecessary.

Undeniably cute once again, Ellen Page stamps her A-list spot with
another splendid, oddly appealing performance. Page's serious acting
chops are matched by her superb comic timing as she proves that she is
one of the finest young actors coming through today. The huge
supporting cast is letdown by no-one; Kristen Wiig the pick of the
bunch, her deadpan humour is hilarious and she is surely another
actress we will see more of in the future. A special mention to Marcia
Gay Harden and Daniel Stern as well, they play Bliss' old folks with
warmth and likability, never allowing them to become the typical
misunderstanding parents you often find in these movies.

A laugh-a-minute affair with a bigger than average heart. Throw in a
terrific little indie soundtrack and you have yourself a must-see
movie.

4 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 -
Classic)
<|_=00=_|>
When drama is rushed it can feel like the slowest thing in the world.
The characters never get any time to breathe. The turmoil that they go
through feels so compact, tidy, and meager that it's like your watching
nothing at all. The quest for life's answers in the "missunderstood
teenager" way, with the mandatory pushy mother and the quiet but
understanding father seems like a subject done before. This movie is
way too bland, stale, and unbelievable to really find the heart. I
compare it to Bend it like Beckham, but without the good, funny or
interesting parts. I liked the idea of this film, it had potential.
Ellen Paige is great, as always, but the rest of the cast could have
been exchanged for puppets and no on would have been able to tell the
difference. I thought the ending too obvious and forced compared to the
rest of it, and needed a more inspired and extended premise and
execution for fullest success. It seemed rushed and inconsistent with
the buildup to it. The movie is, too be frank, about a bunch of girl
riding around in circles on rollerskating. And just as exiting as that
sounds.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a big fan of Ellen Page, Drew Barrymore and Alia Shawkat.
Naturally I had high hopes that this would be a unique, quirky, indie
and generally good movie. What a let down!

Here are the stupid things about this movie:

* endless spirals of clichés including conservative "50's housewife",
reconciling food fight, indie boy-crush in band, beauty pageant queen
turned roller derby star and mother turning up to championship against
all odds (not) * nerdy twig of a girl asked to join a roller-derby team
* G rated underage, underwater sex scene SANS condom

NOT compelling!! no no no
