
Just want to write a quick note to combat the other comments on here a
bit. First, this movie isn't TRYING to be "American Beauty" or "Donnie
Darko" -- and it certainly isn't trying to be David Lynch. To compare
this to any David Lynch film shows you don't understand Lynch at all.

This is an atmospheric thriller. No, the plot isn't ridiculously
tangled and doesn't have countless twists, like many Hollywood
thrillers that seem to feel obligated to throw dozens of red herrings
at the audience so that they feel sufficiently fishy when they leave
the theater.

But neither is this movie trying to be an over-the-top freakfest like a
Lynch film. I love David Lynch's style and the effect his films have on
me, but this is quite different.

This movie was slow and calculated, with plenty of scenes to build
atmosphere -- and thereby deepen the sense of character and
environment. No, every scene does not advance the plot. Yes, you can
tell most of what's going to happen in advance.

But for a strange story about a demented youth for whom everything goes
terribly wrong, I thought this was wonderful. All the actors are
top-notch, and the cinematography is delightful.

A more accurate frame of reference than the above-mentioned movies
would be "Heavenly Creatures," Peter Jackson's tale of the disturbed
fantasy life of two girls that explodes into violence. I felt shades of
that story throughout "Beautiful." If you want a fast-moving,
keep-you-guessing thriller, don't look here. You'll be disappointed.
But if you want to see a nicely shot, atmospheric tale that slowly
spins out of control, this is well worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
"Beautiful" is one of those movies that can be described with style
over substance. From the DVD Cover (which represents the opening scene
of the movie) on you know the director is into stylish and kind of odd
shots. At first I really had big hopes for this but problem with this
kind of mysterious movies is that as soon as the mystery clears up and
doesn't lead anywhere you are left with nothing. Exactly thats what I
was left with after watching "Beautiful". The odd shots which seem
quirky and fresh at first soon begin to annoy you because they just
don't mean anything. You can basically see the final "twist" coming a
mile away considering we are following a boy who is rather the strange
outcast and his mother regularly mentioning that he is not living "in
the real world". From here you get a mysterious detective story
revolving around some abducted girls and a strange house with a lady
constantly watching through the curtains. There are too many
comparisons with cult movies like Donnie Darko (and scenes like the
night views into the suburban windows and the score sure are close to
it) or American Beauty which had an influence on the opening scene and
the odd suburban setting. Anyway just because a movie steals visual
gimmicks and obvious sound design from movies like these I don't see
many similarities because the story has no grip and the storytelling is
uneven and getting very stretched in the middle of the movie. The
constant use of strange shots inter-cut with the plot gets a little
annoying and could have been used a little more subtle. Anyway...
biggest let-down like in many movies is the finale leaving too many
loose ends especially about the boy and his family. Where the opening
scene with the off-screen narration works fine the same element seems
pretty stupid in the end. I guess its easy to make a "mysterious" movie
but when the plot clears even if things are left unexplained to make
the viewer think for himself... thats where a movie shows its
substance. "Beautiful" left me with nothing, not caring about the
characters and the unexplained parts of the story. So to compare the
movie with movies like the fore-mentioned which left the viewer with
many thoughts in his head is far off. Visually interesting but
story-wise a disaster that has far too many lengthy moments.
<|_=00=_|>
I was interested in watching Beautiful because I generally like
Australian cinema very much.As well as other countries, Australia tends
to take the most popular genres from Hollywood, but with a different
and particular taste which makes them seem like something new.And one
of the formulas it best interprets is the "suburban thriller", as we
can see on the excellent films Lantana and Alexandra's
Project.Beautiful counted with some elements to be an addition to that
group: an unresolved mystery, idyllic characters full of sinister
secrets, and solid performances; but the screenplay has various fails,
and even though the final result is interesting, it did not leave me
completely satisfied.

The dark side of the suburbs has been a fashionable topic since
mid-20th century, and some filmmakers have used it with brilliant
results.However, Beautiful repeats the most basic features from the
sub-genus, and it ends up bringing a simultaneously confusing and a bit
predictable story, where the "surprise ending" is truly
unexpected...but not because it is particularly ingenious, but because
it comes out of nowhere, at the same time it leads to the destiny I had
been suspecting from some time before.

Nevertheless, I liked this film, specially because of the
performances.Sebastian Gregory brings a credible and detailed
performance; I hope to see him in more movies.Tahyna Tozzi shows a good
scenic presence and a facility to say pretty much with economy of
expression.And the underrated Peta Wilson also made a competent work as
a housewife.

In conclusion, despite the fails from the screenplay, I found Beautiful
to be interesting and entertaining, but not very
memorable.Nevertheless, I think it deserves a recommendation, mainly
because of the performances and the good atmosphere achieved by
director Dean O'Flaherty.
<|_=00=_|>
Very nicely assembled by the director, Dean O'Flaherty. Misses being
gripping because of the script by writer, Dean O'Flaherty.

In its sluggishness, it's slightly weird suburbanites, its focus on a
taciturn young boy with his ever-ready camera, and its terrifying
secrets -- all leading to violence that erupts in blood -- it reminds
me a little of "American Beauty," but without the sometimes sly wit. It
also is reminiscent of the superior "Lantana," another Australian film
about a missing person but filled with the self confidence that the
crew and cast have when they know they're making a thoughtful movie.

A girl disappears. She may have run away but Suzy, with her long blond
tresses and unlimbered limbs, convinces the puppy-eyed
fourteen-year-old Danny that she's been abducted by a serial murder who
lives down the block in house number 46. Suzy uses her plentiful wiles
to coax Danny into poking around number 46.

What Danny finds is a woman who is afraid to leave the house. Her
husband would do "something dangerous" if she left or if she were seen
talking to Danny on the doorstep.

The neighborhood is pustular with mysteries. Nobody is really happy.
But nobody seems willing to talk about the source of that unhappiness.

The bloodshed comes just before the secrets are revealed. What I mean
is -- it's all secrecy and innuendo until the last ten minutes, then,
as in an Agatha Christie story, all is suddenly revealed. It's all over
in a twinkling. And while some of what is revealed is improbable, some
other stuff is outrageous, unless it's all being made up by the
narrator who takes over to give us the conclusion. There are moments
when I wonder if I'm unbalanced but I'm a paragon of stability compared
to these ordinary looking folk.

O'Flaherty as director is fine. The tension builds slowly throughout.
And he takes moments to show us some of the local Adelaide color --
mauve blossoms on a bush, a spider web, a centipede. Somehow he turns
them all ominous.

But I wish he'd spared us that nonsensical climax. The pieces of the
plot all fall together but the pieces are too fantastic to be believed.
Next time, give the guy a good script.
<|_=00=_|>
I was quite drawn in by the title and brief description of the movie. I
watched this at home on the TV one bored night - uh, morning.

With that said, I want it to be known that this movie was actually
pretty captivating. The relationship between the "weird" main
character(Danny) and the "alluring" girl next door(Suzy) was enough to
find something odd about the way manipulation was used to find out more
information about the mysterious disappearances.

The climax of the film however, was a little weird. I was hoping for
some dramatic reunion between the woman in the house (Jennifer) and
Danny. *Call me a sucker for a happy ending* I really found a likeness
towards the stepmother, but for Danny's sake, I wished the whereabouts
of his real mom would've been better explained...Not just that she's
dead so the woman in the house can't be her :/

On one hand, I was exciting about the shrieking phone call where Danny
dares to go into the villainous house with his dad's firearm to save
the girl of his dreams, but at the end... well, I was left feeling
sorry for the couple who just wanted to be left alone.

Ugh, and don't get me started on Suzy. That chick's forehead alone
could crush walnuts. (I'm sorry. I just had to add a little rant about
how she was seen as being attractive.)

I found the ending to be a little too calm. Most people found it
confusing. I just assumed that Suzy's mom sitting in the window was the
only adding to the film's creepy atmosphere. It made me think that
perhaps Jennifer was trying to protect the neighborhood, the same way
Suzy's mom said she would. In the film's defense, Jennifer did keep
telling Danny that it wasn't safe coming to her house (which could have
easily been seen as a hint towards her motherly past-life she doesn't
want speak of)

The only question I had in my mind was: How did the mom die? Why was
she ripped out of all of her pictures? And most importantly, how did
Jennifer get her charm bracelet? (seems a bit more than a coincidence)
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILER ALERT! The trouble with the earlier reviews of this film is
that the film requires you to think a bit harder about what's going on
than the previous reviewers. True enough, the film is almost cartoonish
towards the end, utterly lacking in credibility. But you have to ask
yourself whether that's a mistake, or part of the film-maker's overall
plan. Well, let's see. The movie begins and ends with a narration by
Suzy's mother, talking about the dark and sinister things that are
going on in the neighbourhood, things that she understands all too
well, even though others don't. Moreover, during the film it becomes
clear that she projects what she imagines onto what she sees. Think of
the scene where she comes into the room when Suzy is dancing and
accuses her of revealing herself to the world. So here is my
conjecture. The entire film is the mother's fantasy. I think that this
explains well why the cartoonish scenes towards the end, which come
quick and fast, are the way they are. You're meant to be thinking, 'Oh,
come on! This is ridiculous!', but then, when you see that final scene,
you're supposed to think 'Oh! Now I get it. The mother is a nutjob and
we've been seeing the whole world through her eyes.'
<|_=00=_|>
Rarely there are films I don't like. Beautiful just happens to fit that
quota. In a nutshell, to me, the film didn't make sense. Too many dead
ends and some pieces that didn't fit. A beautiful blonde girl, whose
the juvenile wet dream of the next door neighbour teen is asked
something of her, while being kissed, prefore. She gets him to spy and
take photographs of thesee girls who have supposedly been held hostage
in a house, where the latest teen girl abduction could be. Trying to
understand our blonde bombshell, especially at the end, which truly
didn't make sense, would entail a lifetime of figuring. Other
characters who's suffered come in and out of the film. Again, Aaron
Pederson is great as a cop with a conscience, where some other actors
are just wasted here. The only enticing bit is the flirtatious pro's in
lingerie, working the upper end of Hindley St. The film makes as much
sense as the t.v. show, Passions.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall a good drama about a shy teenage boy who feels disconnected
from the people around him. The slow pace of this film builds suspense
and mystery, using themes of voyeurism and urban myths.

Some people seemed confused about the ending. I think the narration at
the beginning and end of the film, is just the thoughts of a typical
neighbourhood gossip. Like when you don't know what happens in "that"
house down the road you add these little ideas together...but truth is
often stranger than fiction.

Like most of the reviewers here, I felt that the ending was a bit of a
letdown. Most of the film is slow and atmospheric (with great
cinematography) which makes the ending seem rushed.
<|_=00=_|>
..... told in an urban legend style!

There's the key phrase ... urban legend ... which you hear more than
once throughout this movie! This story is just an urban legend. That
weird neighborhood with those big odd houses and equally odd residents.
How could a policeman own that huge house that Danny lived in? And the
neighborhood seemed totally uninvolved with their fellow neighbors.
Suzy outside showing herself off and then again inside? There's a
couple having sex and nobody closes the curtains on the ground floor of
their houses? Then number 46, the house at the end of the road ... the
mystery house with the woman forever standing at the window. None of
these characters comes across as real. There's just enough reality to
them to be believed - just like an urban legend.

Then there is Danny, the withdrawn fourteen year old obsessed with
taking photos and with Suzy next door. For a loner young boy he has
nerves of steel and no fear of taking the challenges Suzy gives him to
earn her attention. Just boil this story down to the opening stories of
the missing girls - Danny - Suzy - house 46 - the strange woman inside
- the detective magazines - and Max; you have yourself a full blown
urban legend.

This is an OK movie with just enough edge to it to keep your interest
up and then the powerhouse ending to bring it all into focus! None of
it ever really happened.

I think the movie is called 'Beautiful' because director Flaherty was
hung up on Sebastian's face - all those closeups of that most innocent
wide eyed actor with that halo of black hair!
<|_=00=_|>
BEAUTIFUL  TRASH IT ( C+ ) The concept of the movie is intriguing and
suspenseful but when it ended, everything fell flat on earth. The movie
at least achieved in creating the suspense though the ending was really
confusing. In the end bringing the whole Satan thing seems really
immature. the whole connection between the Trio Killing Girls was
really Childish. Sebastian Gregory was the only thing worth memorable
in the movie. From Accidents Happens to Acolytes and now Beautiful. He
has proved himself to be a respectable teen actor. I would love to see
him in Hollywood. Tahyna Tozzi looked Hot in Red Swim Suit. Overall,
the movie is Uneven and all over the place so simply Trash It!
