
Well at least the trailer was scary, from the moment I saw the trailer
for The Unborn I knew I wanted to see this movie, it looked so freaky
and like the ultimate scare. So before it left theaters, I finally saw
it and I should've realized, it's PG-13, how rare is it that we get a
PG-13 horror movie that is actually scary? Sadly all the "intense"
moments were shown in the trailer and I was extremely disappointed with
this lousy movie. I couldn't believe how bad it was, it once again has
every cliché in a horror film that you can imagine: the black best
friend, the loving boyfriend, the hot skinny girl who is constantly in
her underwear, the jumps, the mirrors, the nightmares, the over acting.
I do have one question: did Gary Oldman owe someone a favor when he
took this film? It's just mind-boggling, he's this terrific actor and
he was in this really predictable stupid story? Well, hopefully he'll
recover soon from this sad excuse for a horror film.

Casey Beldon is plagued by merciless dreams, visions of strange looking
dogs, and an evil child with bright blue eyes. Casey is baby-sitting
Matty, her neighbor's son. He is upstairs, supposedly taking a nap.
Casey is downstairs talking on the phone to her best friend Romey.
Suddenly, there is a voice that says "Jumby wants to be born now," on
the baby monitor used for Matty's baby sister. After yelling, "Matty,
are you awake?" Casey goes upstairs to check on them. Matty was
standing over the baby's crib, holding a mirror to the baby's face.
After being hit with the mirror, Casey's eyes begin to change color and
she learns she had a twin brother who died in the womb. Casey begins to
suspect that the spirit haunting her is the soul of her dead twin,
being possessed by a dybbuk, wanting to be born so it can transfer to
the world of the living. Casey meets a woman named Sofi, who is
revealed to be her grandmother. Sofi explains that she had a twin
brother who was killed in Nazi experiments in Auschwitz when they were
both just children. The boy was brought back to life by a dybbuk who
intended to use his body as a portal into the world of the living. Sofi
killed her twin to stop the dybbuk, and now it haunts her family for
revenge. Sofi refers Casey to Rabbi Sendak, who can perform a Jewish
exorcism to remove the dybbuk.

This was a huge disappointment, I wouldn't really recommend it. The
acting and writing were over done, what could have made this more
realistic or scary is just a touch up on the writing. The lead actress
Odette Yustman really needs experience, she was just alright in the
film. Of course I love the cliché of the crazy black best friend who
calls her crazy at first but then all of a sudden is attacked at last
second. If you do watch this, if you want a good scare, turn on the
lights, I admit there are still some freaky moments, better than most
of the PG-13 horror movies, but the story was just bad. It just could
have been a lot better.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the trailers for 'Unborn' and admiring David S. Goyer's
writing talents on films such as 'The Dark Knight' I was kind of
looking forward to it. I knew it wouldn't be much more than a typical
Hollywood attempt at horror but I thought I'd get at least 90 minutes
of entertainment out of it. I was wrong.

The story is terribly contrived and goes through the typical horror
story motions from start to finish: childhood trauma - check!
Nightmares - check! It also takes so much content from other films its
unbelievable. More unbelievable is the fact that it botches these
'homages' every time. The film plods on and on attempting to at least
get a jump out of you (which it fails at) until finally you get to the
finale. Needless to say, the finale is also terrible. More so because
at least the one thing the film does manage to do is contain the odd
decent special effect. However, the finale for some reason doesn't
contain any of these effects and resorts to actors merely wearing
contact lenses.

I'm perhaps being a bit harsh giving the film a 3/10 but given the
actors involved and David S. Goyer's obvious writing talent, this film
really should have delivered far more.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, let me get this out in the open immediately: this movie is pretty
predictable if you have been watching any 'new' American Horror flick
within the past five years, complete with gratuitous shots of Fox's,
excuse me, Yutsman's backside. To its credit, the movie does have a
great amount of potential from the source material, but fails to give
birth to it. The effects are well done, the acting is decent (for the
genre at least), and I left the movie feeling that I was at least
entertained for the last 87 min (although I did wish that they would
have cut out 10min. or so in the middle and made the final
confrontation longer and better).

If you already like watching these kinds of movies, the Unborn
certainly doesn't try to do anything different then what has already
been done, and is worth watching; But you are expecting a radical
departure from the typical Horror flick, this ain't it.
<|_=00=_|>
Its ironic that this movie came out the week that the nominations for
the Razzie Awards were released. I have a hunch that this film may
garner a few nominations for that "prestigious" award next year.

This film is awful. It has no clue where it wants to go and takes quite
a lot of time getting there. The story is about young Casey Beldon
(Odette Yustman). She is a girl in school, working as a babysitter for
some extra money. This is when she encounters a four year-old kid that
she is sitting who appears to be evil. Soon, she is seeing the evil of
that kid in her daily life. To rid herself of this, she begins
examining her family history. This includes a mother (Carla Gugino) who
was depressed and killed herself, a mysterious old woman in her mothers
photos (Jane Alexander) who has had issues in the past, and her
friends. Upon recommendation, she decides to have an exorcism performed
by the rabbi (Gary Oldman). If you are getting ahead of me in the plot,
you've basically got it right in your mind.

The writing is mediocre, and that is perhaps kind. The beginning of the
story is simply about showing as much of Ms. Yustman's body that can be
allowed in a PG-13 movie. If that couldn't be done in one scene, they
come back to it four or five times. The story follows cliché after
cliché and takes forever to really begin. The frights are minimal and
within 20 minutes I was laughing at what I think was supposed to be
scary. This movie is unintentionally funny once you pick up where it is
going and what it is trying to do.

The one minor redeeming factor of this movie was some of the camera
work. There were a few angles that were used that felt greatly
different than the others, felt fresh and felt well placed. Those few
shots cannot, however, overcome some of the worst over-acting I've ever
seen, a poor script, and a lack of direction for a vast majority of the
film. If you are an absolute horror film junkie, go ahead and have a
laugh. If you are a fan of bad movies, enjoy. If you are looking for an
enjoyable fright, look elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
January is not such a good time for movies. The holiday season is over
people are getting back to work and school and their normal lives, and
the movie studios seem to take this opportunity to unload all their
half-witted movies that probably no one is going to be interested in
anyway. It seems that way every time I see a movie like The Unborn,
anyway. This thing is so thin and weak it's like a cinematic version of
weak tea, and weak tea is not something you want your audience to be
thinking about while they're suffering through your scary movie.

Brought to us by the director of Blade: Trinity (and pretty much
nothing else), The Unborn is the story of a girl who had a twin that
died in utero because her umbilical cord had wrapped around his neck in
the womb and strangled him, and she didn't become aware of it until
decades later when his evil spirit decided that he was ready to be born
now.

Sadly, the movie relies almost entirely on endless shots of creepy kids
with deadpan expressions and, occasionally, colored contact lenses. But
don't go thinking the clichés stop there, the movie is so jam-packed
with cheap horror techniques that it almost feels like an educational
experience in everything to avoid doing in making a scary movie.

The extreme close-up of the mutated babyface and the sudden screeching
noise when the eyes flip open used to be a pretty scary effect. I can't
remember when that was, it's been a number of decades now, but there
was a time in the distant past when that shot had a cool effect. Now
it's been so overdone and copied that it's no loner anything more than
a big red flag that the movie you're watching is wasting your time!

In the movie's defense, it has a clear ability to create a tense
atmosphere. Much of it is beautifully photographed, and the combination
of the slow tracking shots and the moody music give a feeling of unease
which, in a better movie, could easily pave the way for a genuinely
freaky horror show. But unfortunately, every bit of the rest of the
movie is as wispy and uninteresting as a pair of old underwear.

Odette Yustman stars as the afflicted Casey Beldon, faced with a
terrible situation in which she is slowly losing her soul to an
invading demon, back for revenge for that one pesky sibling rivalry
that they had before they were born. Poor Casey finds out at the most
vulnerable time that she inadvertently killed her own brother, which
has to have some kind of devastating effect on a person, even one who
is not in such an, ah, emotional state as Casey is in.

Oh, and speaking of emotional states, there is a point where Casey is
absolutely certain that she is being pursued by an evil spirit, and
even when the bizarre things that have been happening to her seem to
leave no room for any other explanation, her lunkhead boyfriend says
this to her  "I don't think you're crazy, I just think you're
hormonal."

A word of advice, gentlemen  I don't claim to be any kind of
all-knowing expert about the wonders and mysteries of the fairer sex,
but I tend to have a natural feeling that if your girlfriend is upset
about something, the suggestion that it's "that time of the month" is
generally a pretty efficient way to make yourself single. Or bruised
and swollen somewhere. And if she's upset because she's being pursued
by demons, she may just cut to the chase and kill you.

Besides, it's clear that Casey needs a lot of help, because not only
does she make all of those breathtakingly stupid decisions that horror
movie cannon-fodder generally make, but she also begins to appear more
and more crazy to the people around her as she begins to believe more
and more that this demonic possession thing is happening to her for
real.

Of course, making her look crazy is neither surprising nor interesting.
It's an ancient horror movie technique intended to make the
supernatural element seem more real by giving us someone to relate to 
the people who are looking at this girl like she's a total lunatic.
Unfortunately, when the character is so undeveloped and uninteresting
that it's impossible to care about her, this crazy element does nothing
for the suspense. Except maybe reverse it.

There are certainly some interesting visuals in the movie, even some of
the clichés (a good many of them involving the old bathroom mirror
scare) are older than the hills but at least look pretty cool.

The spider-walk is lifted directly out of The Exorcist (and it's such
an obvious plagiarism that I'm going to go ahead and chalk it up to an
homage), and there are some pretty clever manifestations of the demon,
but the movie is so slow and plodding and full of half-assed
performances (even the great Gary Oldman is totally dismissable here)
that it feels like even the movie is sleeping through itself. And it
doesn't help matters that the climax of the film is an exorcism that
consists of a lot of strobe lights and big fans in a low-rent studio.

Believe it or not, I didn't hate the movie, but I'm a long-time horror
fan and I have a tendency to enjoy horror movies that most other people
would punch me for suggesting. But whether or not you enjoy the lower
half of the horror genre, it's definitely true that there are quite a
few much better movies about demonic possession that would be a far
better use of your time than The Unborn. Personally, I suggest The
Exorcism of Emily Rose, which is one of the best I've seen
<|_=00=_|>
I've read a lot of comments on this movie, I didn't think it was all
bad. I have seen better horror movies, but this certainly wasn't the
worst, someone said, that it was unoriginal, but I thought that the
plot was quite original, I don't recall seeing anything similar before,
but then, that's my opinion. I thought Odette Yustman was a fair
leading actress as Casey and I thought her best friend Romey was quite
entertaining. I have this film downloaded onto my computer, I probably
would not have paid to see it at the cinema, but it's a good freebie,
I've watched it several times and still find it fun to watch. I think
it is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw The Unborn, when I saw the trailer I thought well this might
actually be a good little horror flick. While I would not say this was
a terrible movie, it unfortunately did have some mistakes.

This entire film is basically a marathon of shocks, crazy situations
and (some) pretty creepy ghosts/demons, so I guess, being a horror fan,
thats a good thing, right? well, in this case, its not. The Unborn
certainly does not lack in the horror department, showcasing some
rather creepy moments, but unfortunately the movie lacks of any
suspense, buildup, character development, nor does it have a good
script.

Odette Yustman does pretty good, but it's not her fault her performance
comes through less, its the script. The movie, from the exact second it
begins, delivers 'scare' after scare after scare, but the sad thing is,
its not that scary because you don't care about the characters or the
story, and there's no buildup whatsoever to speak of.

Its actually a terrible waste, because this movie could have been a
solid genre effort, too bad the director/ writer chose the easy way
out, and delivered what is one the laziest, been-there-done-that
productions of the year.

Entertaining it is to some degree, but its not a full recommendation
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't planning on seeing this movie, but my friend invited me along,
so I said I'd go. I didn't have good expectations of the movie from the
very first time I saw the preview at the Twilight premiere.

The movie isn't scary. There are a bit of unusual parts to it, but
nothing that will give you nightmares unless you are easily scared. The
only parts that made me jump were when there was silence and something
made a sudden noise.

Instead of screaming, our theater was filled with laughter. I almost
had the urge to leave the theater before the movie was finished, but I
still wanted to see the end of this terrible movie.

After the movie, my friend apologized from taking me to the movie. Her
other friend thought it was terrible as well. As I was walking out, a
woman told a man, "Next time, I pick the movie." Definitely not worth
the $10 I paid.

I found the plot long and drawn out. It was simply a time filler in my
night.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen.
Theacting was horrible. The script was uninspired. This was a movie
that kept contradicting itself. The film was sloppy and unoriginal. I
was very disappointed and angry when I left the theater. I only give it
a 2 because Gary Oldman appeared in this excuse of a film. He is the
only excuse to see this film. And thats not even a good enough reason,
as he phoned in his performance. Its not like I was expecting a good
film. Just something to give me a jump or two. This did not even do
that. This film is not only not worth the ten dollars I paid to see it,
but its was not worth the hour and a half I spent watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
We get them every year now; so much so that it would probably feel a
little odd, maybe even a little perplexing to the most avid of cinema
goers not to be treated to the cinematic trite that is the generic
Hollywood horror. And yet, despite the frequency and predictability to
which such movies subscribe themselves to upon release during the
lowest peaks of the yearthey never seem to loose their impact. Of
course, I must iterate that by using the term "impact" that I by no
means indorse the idea that movies such as The Unborn manage to strike
up any sort of reaction sans mind-numbingly potent boredom. No, instead
the form of "impact" that The Unborn manages to achieve is one that is
recycled year in, year out with such ventures in the clichéd and banal
world of the modern cash-cow horror. It's the impact of "Wait, this is
it? This is what I paid £8 to see? Wasn't this released in 2003?"If
your average Hollywood Horror is horror by the numbers then this is a
severe case of number crunching gone mad on the part of those involved.

It's somewhat ironic then that such feature should be so confusingly
named The Unborn. As if the notion of an unborn idea or concept could
be so potent within the mind of film-maker big-shot David S. Goyer, the
entirety of what happens to be one of his few ventures into directing
makes clear why he should stick to producing and writing. From
beginning to long overdue end, The Unborn is an uncouth, contorted mess
of genre clichés, underdeveloped ideas, paper-thin characters and
scares that manage to become even more tiresome than the regurgitated
protagonists that they inflict themselves upon. From the creepy looking
children pulling out the Ominous Stare of Death on empty roads to the
wise, prophetic old coot who obviously took too much LSD in the sixties
talking in riddles and spiritual mumbo jumbo-isms, Goyer's script here
serves not as a testament to how horror should be done, but the exact
antithesis. Of course, there are certain highlights to the feature
which are infrequent and nevertheless rendered obsolete by the
brain-dead mediocrity that surrounds them, but even the cliché of the
pretty brunette panicking in her skimpy underwear doesn't offer much
hope. What then, do you have? Well, nothing really.

Aside from the odd visual effect here and there that at least doesn't
look terrible by contrast, and a few cameo performances that help bring
the feature up a small notch; the majority of The Unborn is a dreary
mix of mundane plotting and direction with lifeless portrayals by
B-grade thespians who are as disconnected from the project as you could
possibly be. For the most part, the story follows our protagonist as
she seeks to reveal the scientific fact of why she has starting having
horrific visions featuring a pale-skinned boy who keeps going on about
someone wanting to be born. From here the feature tries to rationalise
the irrational; throwing in some superstitious mysticism as concrete
explanation and tossing it around as some sort of "aha!" logical slice
of catharsis. Of course, with every horror feature, one must accept
that certain leaps of faith must be made in order to indulge in the
experienceyet with The Unborn, such a leap would mean to abandon faith
entirely and subscribe to sheer lunacy; so how does an endless
plummeting freefall sound, and would you pay for it? Again, this
wouldn't be so detrimental if indeed Goyer had portrayed the events
depicted here as anything but a contrived mess of over-indulgence
existing only to challenge the viewer's perceptions of reality; but
this isn't the case.

Instead what Goyer achieves here is a diabolical train-wreck of
derivative horror movie absurdities infused with an uninspired sense of
misdirection and humourless drivel. With every release of such a
nature, there are of course the proponent objectors who will argue that
the horror film is nothing to be taken seriously. And yet, I must ask;
if I cannot be moved, scared, compelled, or even amused by a movie akin
to the ninety minute catastrophe that is The Unborn, then what exactly
is the point in watching at all? Indeed, if there are any advocators of
Goyers' work here, I make no qualms at questioning their sanity,
attention span or affliction for cinematic sadism. And yet, I honestly
feel like David summed up the problem with his feature rather
ironically through one of his own characters' words that I will use
here to send off The Unborn back into the confines of the memory
waste-basket.

"I can't say I truly believe in what's afflicting you, but I think you
believe." - A review by Jamie Robert Ward (http://www.invocus.net)
