
As with any spy film, a certain amount of complexity in the script is
to be expected. However this spy film adds on plot twists, flash backs,
back stabbing and double agents with so much frequency that it left me
scratching my head by its end. As an on screen team Julia Roberts and
Clive Owen work well together but even their performances were drowned
out by the sheer complexity of the script. There are also welcome
surprises from the supporting cast, each of whom seemed to have their
fair share of witty dialogue. Ultimately the movie is less about a
romance between rival spies, and is more about keeping its audience
wondering just how the plot can twist next. As the final credits role
one looming question remains: "What happened here?" even complex spy
thrillers such as "Mission Impossible" had some kind of wrap up at its
end that cleared up any lingering doubt or questions and we were
happier for it. 'Duplicity' is a fun little spy film, with some fine
performances by Roberts and Owen and plenty of well written dialogue,
but it is brought down by the overly complex plot and I fear will leave
even fans of the genre feeling slightly numb when the credits role.
<|_=00=_|>
Two corporate spies (Owen & Roberts) hook up (after knowing each other
a while back) to pull off a scheme to get 40 Million dollars. The
mission is to infiltrate a company that each other work in, and expose
a secret product the company is releasing. Soon things get out of plan,
and the two spies realize they have more feelings for each other than
they recently thought. I've been a fan of Clive Owen ever since
Children of Men, and I was so gratified to see Julia Roberts back on
the screen. A few years ago both Clive and Julia did a movie together
called "Closer", and it was satisfying to see them back together again.
Their performances together are the only uplifting value of this film.
Although we could have used more of Paul Giamatti and definitely more
Tom Wilkinson, the entire cast was perfect for this film. This movie
had too much potential in the first half, but after that it becomes a
confusing and mind boggling mess of a movie. There were so many twists,
and confused story telling even I heard some of the audience members
yell out "Huh? What was that about?" The script was good, but the story
was horribly told that it came to a very disappointing outcome. That's
a shame because I was expecting to enjoy a good suspense movie that
wasn't confusing. Duplicity is a often funny and well acted movie, but
you'll have to find either the film's director or the screenwriter to
translate the story for you, or else you won't get it. It surprisingly
turns romantic in the end which makes it a fairly good date movie, but
you'll be more confused than dazzled. I have to say skip this movie,
and if you want to see Julia Roberts at her best rent Erin Brockovich.
If you want to see Clive Owen at his best rent Inside Man. Need I say
more?
<|_=00=_|>
I was lured to see this on the promise of a smart, witty slice of old
fashioned fun and intrigue - I was conned. A knowing, pretentious,
tedious, overlong story which suffocates under its own artifice.
Starring Julia Roberts ( Claire Stenwick) ,and Clive Owen (Ray Koval),
as "Duplicitous" spies, the film tries to recreate the glitter, froth
and intrigue of roles made famous by the likes of Cary Grant in the
1950's, yet fails under leaden direction and total lack of chemistry
between the leads.

Director "Michael Clayton" Tony Gilroy also has writing credits for The
Bourne series, so his credentials are excellent. But Clive Owen seems
ill at ease as a romantic, witty lead apparently yearning for the
opportunity to play the more robust part he played in the under rated
"International". Julia Roberts shines in one of her better
performances, offering more than her obvious glamour but without the
quality of script to enable her to truly excel. She seems barely
bothered about enticing Owen into bed, and the word play between them
consistently falls flat.

An extensive travelogue incorporating London, Rome, New York, Dubai and
Geneva provides some scenic interest, as these erstwhile CIA and MI6
spies swap political espionage for industrial espionage turning into
criminal espionage. At 126 minutes it is at least 35 minutes too long.
Sharper editing, greater pace, and less "flab" might have made this a
better picture. But we are left with it as it is, an instantly
disposable, and forgettable addition to the respective parties film
credits.
<|_=00=_|>
Well. This movie has only one thing going for it and that's the charm
of Clive Owens. But it's hard to believe that the genius behind Michael
Clayton had anything to do with this. The writing is horrible, and at 2
1/2 hours, it's too long by about, um, 2 1/2 hours. It's aiming for
Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn, but fails on all counts. And I hate to
say it, but I think Julia Roberts has been very ill-served by the make
up artists and costumers on this movies. And I really think that
Hollywood needs to call a moratorium on flashbacks as a major plot
device. The movie seems to consist entirely of flashbacks, many of
which involve the same lines of dialogue, which turn out to be a script
devised by the main characters. the flashbacks, crosses, and double
crosses make your head hurt if you think about them too much.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't watch many crime thrillers, because they usually turn out to be
not remotely believable or personal, but Duplicity was a pleasant
departure from the stereotype. It was really more of a romantic comedy
(-ish dramedy, even) within the structure of a crime thriller. The two
lead characters were actually pretty believable, aside from their
supernatural cockiness that you kind of have to expect from spies in a
spy movie (although I was sad that we got so little background or
history on either character). Their troubles definitely weren't common,
but they were easy to sympathize with, somehow. On top of that, it was
delightful and kind of thrilling to see how their relationship was
built. (The movie put together their history piece by piece, rather
than giving it to us chronologically, which I generally think is a more
fun way of witnessing a story.) The other big part of what made this
movie so fun was that the objects of our spies' investigation was a
couple of skincare corporations! Finally, we get to see tactical drama
surrounding something other than a casino, a bank, or a government.
Something like a cosmetics company is mundane enough that it becomes
fun to play with in the context of large-scale crime drama. Even our
favorite CEO's nerdy remarks ("Well, it's a common misconception that
"lotion" and "cream" are the same thing") are kind of endearing and
bring you back to the fact that this could be an actual corporation run
by actual business nerds. So yes, safe to say that this movie was worth
watching, and had me walking out of the theater wishing I was a spy. Go
watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just finished the enormously disappointing 'The International,'
a 2009 espionage thriller starring Clive Owen, I can't believe I saw
'Duplicity'another 2009 espionage thriller starring Clive Owen. Sue
me, I'm a Julia Roberts fan, I actually like Owen  we all make
mistakes so no judgments on some projects, and I love a good 'Ocean's
Eleven'-type spy/dark comedy. Fortunately, after having to take several
breaks in 'Duplicity' and wanting to turn this off for good, I stuck
through to the end. I'm glad I did. Few horrible movies, as I thought
this was slowly becoming, reach out and grab me in the closing. Perfect
movie? By no means; it's barely average, but if you allow yourself,
like I did, to reach the climax, you'll probably be equally surprised.
After roughly three-dozen "two weeks ago," "ten years ago," etc,
flashbacks, you'll learn Roberts and Owen are capers in love attempting
to make a heist (and life) together using their trained skills. After
awhile, they settle down between two rivaling companies bent on
cosmetology, products, etc. You, the viewer, pick up clues along the
way on whose side who's on and who you can trust. Big problems with the
film started with an maddening slow-mo Wilkinson/Giamatti intro, then
the endless boxed in scenes (dang, I know style, but this was as
ridiculous and annoying as Lee's 'Hulk' comic book, uh, approach to
minimizing the screen) and with the extreme lack of chemistry between
the two leads. Sure, Owens is swift and good, but Roberts looks fresh
off the 'Ocean's' set, with almost zero charisma she was built on in
the early 90s. In fact, she just looks tired. Motherhood might do that.
Nevertheless, it had its moments, and the end ties all the confusion
you'll have. I certainly did until the last act.
<|_=00=_|>
Oscar-nominated "Michael Clayton" writer & director Tony Gilroy serves
audiences a soufflé of sorts in the shallow new Julia Roberts & Clive
Owen romantic comedy about jet-setting, globe-trotting corporate spies.
Roberts and Owen, who previously co-starred in Mike Nichols' drama
"Closer" (2004), keep turning the tables on each other. They love one
another so much that they don't trust each other. Ultimately, however,
they have the tables turned on them. Mind you, this should come as no
surprise to anybody who suffers through this predictable, 125-minute,
PG-13 rated comedy of errors. Sadly, "Duplicity" strives to be too
smart for its own good, and everything collapses like a soufflé amid
Gilroy's Machiavellian plotting. In a way, "Duplicity" imitates last
year's assassination thriller "Vantage Point," but it substitutes crisp
verbal repartee for crackling violence. The action in this lively
industrial espionage epic occurs in splintered chronological spirals
that create more confusion than they clear up. Meaning, time jumps
around so erratically that you may get lost along the way. The
clean-scrubbed charismatic principals generate a lot of chemistry, but
they keep having the same conversations in different settings around
the world. Indeed, "Duplicity" is not the kind of movie you can follow
if you are either sending text messages or get hung up in a line at the
concession stand. You'll come back in lost, and your date will have a
devil of a time summarizing what you didn't see. After a while,
"Duplicity" becomes annoying, even if it boasts splendid photography,
scenic settings, and slick editing.

Claire Stenwick (Julia Roberts of "Charlie Wilson's War") is a seasoned
CIA agent, and Ray Koval (Clive Owen of "Sin City") is her cloak &
dagger counterpart at British MI-6. Wait a minute, who's going to
accept Julia Roberts as a CIA agent? Well, since "Duplicity" is a
comedy, okay. The role fits Owen like a glove, however, but then he was
in the running once to play James Bond. Conversely, Roberts looks like
she ought to be selling Tupperware. The action opens five years in the
past when Claire and Koval meet for the first time at the American
Consulate during a Fourth of July party in Dubai,one of the United Arab
Emirates. Koval picks her up, but she outwits him and steals top-secret
Egyptian air defense codes that he had stashed under the box springs of
his mattress. Actually, naughty little Claire drugged unsuspecting
Koval, and he hasn't recovered from her audacity. He catches up with
Claire five years later in New York City's Grand Central Station, but
she acts like she doesn't remember him. Since their initial encounter
in Dubai, our protagonists have retired from international intrigue and
have become agents in industrial intrigue.

"Duplicity" concerns the cutthroat competition between two
multinational corporations, Equikrom and Burkett & Randle, and they are
determined to corner world markets. In fact, they worry more about what
the other is doing than what they ought to be doing. Think of them as
the fictional equivalents of Pepsi-Cola versus Coca-Cola, but they
manufacture everything from soap to medical products. Claire and Koval
decide to exploit this feud for their own gain. They go to work for
Equikrom. Koval serves as her supervisor, while she goes undercover as
a mole into Burkett & Randle. The problem is that neither Claire nor
Koval evoke any interest as characters. They constantly spar with each
other, but they have no more depth than Gilroy's giddy dialogue. You
know a movie is in trouble when the supporting characters prove far
more provocative than the primary characters. Equikrom's devious
leprechaun like CEO Dick Garsik (Paul Giamatti of "Shoot'em Up") and
Burkett & Randall's head honcho Howard Tully (Tom Wilkinson of "Michael
Clayton") are rivals to the death. Gilroy shows how much they abhor
each other over the slow-motion title credits. They meet on the tarmac
at an airport and tangle like wrestlers while their staffs watch in
horror. When he learns about a fabled new product Burkett & Randall are
about to unveil, Garsik launches a full-scale espionage compaign with
Claire and Koval to find out what it is.

"Duplicity" is Julia Roberts' first starring role since the woebegone
"Mona Lisa Smile" in 2003. She looks sparkling but terribly miscast.
The real scene stealers are Paul Giamatti and Tom Wilkinson. Carrie
Preston has some memorable moments as a gullible travel agent that our
hero in disguise seduces to gain access to a Burkett & Randall
building. The use of multiple flashbacks obliterates any coherence in a
movie that should have been as light and dry as a martini. Clearly,
Gilroywho has written better movies such as "Dolores Claiborne" (1995)
and the Matt Damon "Bourne" spy trilogytries to conceal the absence of
substance by swirling past and present timelines. In the end,
"Duplicity" is a harmless but loquacious exercise in silliness that
contains none of the violence of the Brad Pitt & Angelina Jolie spy
comedy "Mr. & Mrs. Smith." The hero and heroine wind up in bed a couple
of times for amoral premarital sex, but nudity is confined to an
out-of-focus glimpse of a bare-breasted Roberts. Profanity is held to a
half-dozen words, so there is nothing really offensive on hand. "Dark
Knight" composer James Newton Howard's orchestral score infuses
"Duplicity" more energy than anything Roberts and Owen pull off as a
pair. The eleventh hour revelation about the product that Burkett &
Randal is manufacturing proves rather lame. Happily, "Duplicity" is the
kind of movie that you'll forget in no time.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow this film is bad. I loved "Michael Clayton," but this is clearly a
director with one successful film allowed to go off the deep end on his
sophomore effort. (See "Atonement.") 

I knew we were in trouble from the opening credits -- an interminable
slow motion sequence of what's supposed to be a comedic pantomime of
two people who hate each other...with the music turned up extra loud to
make it seem faster, funnier, quirkier...or something... Problem is, we
get the idea after five seconds. The rest of the open gives us no new
information, and it's not actually funny, so it seems to last an hour. 

These opening credits telegraph what you are in for: two hours of
film-making DEVOID of actual content, delivered with mediocre style. 

Scene after scene is too long. I don't need a whole sequence of Clive
Owen following Julia Roberts, I just need enough shots to know that a
following happens. The passing scenery does not interest me. I also
don't need the scene in the car where two guys mock Clive's accent to
go on this long...or even happen. Clive Owen has an English accent. Is
that supposed to be funny? And how many tilt-up-to-skyscraper shots
does a movie really need? I guess about 50. 

But apparently you also need the actors performing the SAME exact scene
(the film's big gimmick) even more than that. Note to filmmakers: this
only worked in "The Conversation." Unless it reveals something new,
it's a waste of time. (And if it *does* reveal something new, then stop
it after 10 seconds, and one occurrence, because once we realize what
actually *is* new information (if we haven't guessed already) we're
done. The different intonations of the act are of no interest.) 

Also, FYI, legitimate suspense is not created by just having people
yell "Hurry! Hurry!" while someone looks up a room number from their
messy desk. That's just arbitrary.

And -- wow -- BOXES as a transition device. Again, this has been done
to death, but usually when it has been done to death, the boxes are
telling you something in terms of simultaneous action -- they're not
just using boxes for the sake of having boxes. WOW.

The worst part is that the film believes it is being clever, when
really what's going on is TOTALLY OBVIOUS. You're way ahead of it for
at least an hour, yet the filmmakers feel they have to SPOON FEED YOU A
MONTAGE OF "WHAT JUST HAPPENED" (and even *that* is too long) in case
you were asleep during the show (a legitimate worry with this film.)
That's just insulting.

Oh yes, and ultimately the screenplay is about NOTHING. (Is that
technically a spoiler?) Basically the protagonists try to do something
frivilous, involving no stakes, then in the end find out they were
doomed to fail from day one because they're self-involved idiots. Yawn.

There is one good performance from the southern woman seduced by Clive
Ownen. Her behavior is funny in her interrogation scene, the only
inspired part of the film.

Almost forgot...you have Roberts use a copy machine to copy the "secret
document," yet no one even thinks to check whether or not SHE MIGHT
HAVE MADE A COPY OF IT WHILE USING THE COPY MACHINE. (See what I mean
by "insulting"?) 

Avoid this film.
<|_=00=_|>
There's no denying it: Julia Roberts - here playing former CIA agent
Claire Stenwick - is a star and we've missed her in recent years.
British actor Clive Owen - ex MI6 agent Ray Koval - is watchable
enough, so the pairing works quite well, especially when delivering
some sharp lines from writer Tony Gilroy who also directs (the same
twin talents that he exercised on "Michael Clayton"). Supporting roles
are ably filled by Paul Giamatti and Tom Wilkinson as rival
entrepreneurs locked in a bitter conflict that seemingly only one-time
spies can bring to a resolution. Throw in some glitzy locations - New
York, Rome, the Bahamas - and slick and stylish cinematography and one
has a good-looking movie, but not necessarily one that delivers.

In a film that could be called "Ocean's Two", the strength of the work
is also paradoxically its weakness. The constant flashbacks are
essential to Gilroy's calculated and entertaining - if utterly
implausible - narrative but, after a while, they come to feel somewhat
convoluted and contrived and the hair-raising plot has an ending that
is thin to the point of baldness.
<|_=00=_|>
The second movie I watched on honeymoon two weeks ago was this, what
appeared to be a stylish and very cool spy film with lots of witty
dialogue and two big name actors in the lead. And that's exactly what
this is though it does have a number of flaws that aren't immediately
obvious in the trailer. It's too flash for its own good, desperately
trying to fool you into thinking Steven Soderbergh is in the director's
chair and ultimately, it ends up tangled in its own web of deceit.
Shame because Julia Roberts and Clive Owen deserve better than this.

"Duplicity" is a complex tale, focusing on two shady characters called
Ray Koval (Owen) and Claire Stenwick (Roberts) who now work as
corporate spies. Initially on opposite sides of a feud between
industrial tycoon Howard Tully (Tom Wilkinson) and bitter rival Dick
Garsik (Paul Giamatti), the pair decide to work together in order to
steal industrial secrets for a tidy sum. At least, that's the plan.
It's left up to the viewer to keep track of the story as it flashbacks,
split-screens and twists at frequent intervals.

I can only guess that "Ocean's Eleven" is a favourite film of director
Tony Gilroy because "Duplicity" tries so hard to imitate it with its
globe-trotting storyline, subtle easy-listening soundtrack and visual
gimmickry. Trouble is, the whole film ends up getting hopelessly
muddled as the film jumps all over the place, meaning an already
complicated story is pretty much lost forever. On the plus side,
Roberts and Owen provide two extremely watchable lead characters and
are ably supported by Wilkinson and the always good Giamatti. It's just
such a shame that this film is so confusing. Not being neither a
rom-com, thriller or straight comedy makes "Duplicity" as confusing to
pigeonhole as it is to watch.

I wanted to like this because I genuinely thought it would be good. I
love "Ocean's Eleven" (not bothered about the sequels, mind) and felt
that this would be in the same vein. Sadly, "Duplicity" isn't coherent
enough for you to follow and when the conclusion does arrive, it's
unsatisfying, implausible and like the rest of the film, too clever for
its own good. If anything, this film does two things. It reminds us why
Owen wasn't quite good enough to be Bond and it also makes you want to
watch "Ocean's Eleven" because it's a much better film than this.
Ho-hum hokum but nothing more.
