
Based on a previous review here suggesting that fans of The Ring would
like this I went to see Shelter and I think the previous advice needs
more clarification. If you liked The Ring then yes, you'll probably
like this. If however you thought The Ring had pointless cut aways and
sudden close-ups just to try to build tension or make you jump, then
you will be as equally frustrated with this film. Still in the latter
group, I would assume that you loved Ringu and therefore you will
appreciate the story this film is trying to tell despite the occasional
ham-fisted way it goes about presenting it. 

Jonathan (male lead) is really quite good, although Julianne comes
across far too much as if she has been cast as Dana Scully. In truth
this whole film would have been more believable if this had of been the
story line for the X Files 2 movie. Knowing that going in will probably
help get past the weird opening 30 minutes where it swings from place
to place until we settle on the story it is wanting to tell. Despite
the plot holes and some questionable decisions by the characters, I did
leave the film feeling pleased and positive about the whole experience.
<|_=00=_|>
It's really rare for an American film to open in Japan before America,
so I rushed to see it. Well, I might not have rushed had it not been
for Juliana Moore who does deliver despite huge gaping plot holes
littered throughout the film. 

I won't give anything away about the story. There is a lot of
development in the first half of the movie which might make the film
seem s l o w for some viewers. When the mystery is revealed it is
surprising but even given the careful buildup you might still have to
make an effort to suspend your disbelief if only because of the plot
holes (which I can not mention with out enumerating spoilers). 

There are quite a few logical disconnects, too. In a age of cell phones
when you're a busy psychiatrist why would you drive across town to do
something which would take ten seconds by phone? Because it's a plot
device. 

Still, I enjoyed the film. I can not recommend it to my Japanese
friends as there is a lot of talk about God and Faith which is lost on
a truly secular country; but I can recommend it to people who like
films like The Ring or The Exorcist. There are some interesting
characters and a lot of good acting especially by the male lead who,
well, you'll see.
<|_=00=_|>
SHELTER  CATCH IT ( B- ) Shelter starts like a Psychological thriller
and ends up as a Supernatural Voodoo movie. Nonetheless, it wasn't bad
at all. From the 1st sequences to Jonathan Rys Meyers Incredible
entrance the movie was right on psychological track though in between
we were getting hints of some Supernatural hints, then in 2nd half it
was clear that it's a Supernatural movie. The best thing about the
movie is that it doesn't gets you bore and has its scary and chilling
moments. Julianne Moore is a fantastic actress everyone knows that she
did her part really well as always. Jonathan Rhys Meyers is incredible
this time since his role has most of the variety, he done his part
really well. Brooklynn Proulx is really cute and adorable kid. Overall
it's a good attempt though story could have been more innovative rather
then predictable.
<|_=00=_|>
If only the makers of Shelter knew of the irony behind their movie. A
film titled 'Shelter' shelters its secrets so badly that there is
nothing surprising in its thrills or mysteries. It's one of those
movies where you have guessed the ending when there's still half an
hour left to watch. Which in the case of Shelter would be before it
even began.

It begins with an interesting premise. Dr Cara Harding (Julianne Moore)
is not a believer in multiple personalities disorder, which she
considers to be a sham which murderers seek to be acquitted of the
consequences of their actions. 

But when her father (Jeffrey DeMunn) introduces her to a patient
(Jonathan Rhys Meyers) whose multiple personalities belong to murdered
people, she is both baffled and resistant. She starts a quest to
discover how the patient is connected to all the murders to see how he
has absorbed their personalities. Of course, no one seems to pay too
much attention to the fact that when the patient changes personalities,
his neck almost snaps, but psychiatrists are busy people..

Unfortunately, from here the movie gets silly. Cults, religion, faith
and not having faith, mysterious deaths and whatnot take the stage as
all kinds of creepy images flash on the screen relentlessly to give
story the extra mile. While some images are scary and well shot, it
doesn't make up to the fact that the story has absolutely nothing to
say about anything. In fact, I consider it a prime mistake to delve
into religious dogma without coming up anything to say about it, since
it is perhaps the easiest target to make a point about. Sloppy.
<|_=00=_|>
Shelter has dealt with an unfair start into cinemas, it was ready for
release way back in 2010 and now it's finally being released On Demand
and in limited theaters under its new title 6 Souls. The movie starts
with the introduction of Cara Harding, a female forensic psychiatrist
played by Julianne Moore, who just finished wrapping up her current
case, when her father Dr. Harding approaches her with a new case. Cara
is hesitant at first but soon agrees to take the job and soon discovers
that not only does her new patient has multiple personalities but all
of them are murder victims, we are then taken on a tailspin with her to
figure out why this is happening.

The movie has its moments of grotesque eeriness that gets under your
skin but just not a lot of scares or action. The story just gets lost
in its own complexity of twists with not much payoffs. For a movie that
is almost 2 hours long it just didn't accomplish that much or had any
moments that stood out to me. The film does have a lot of spooky
imagery with creepy locations, but just didn't take full advantage of
them. The film starts off well as a psychological thriller and
character study, and then when the horror elements seep in, the film's
effectiveness fades away and becomes illogical. 

The intense and focused performances are where this film shines.
Julianne Moore can do any role justice and in this problematic film she
proves it with her raw emotions and mesmerizing red head beauty.
Julianne plays Cara Harding, a forensic psychiatrist who picks up the
most challenging cases of her career when she meets her new patient who
has a multiple personality disorder. Jonathan Rhys Meyers gives a
captivating performance as David/Adam/Wesley and is probably the very
best I've seen from him so far. Jonathan's performance could have been
an over the top mess if approached the wrong way, but he made it
organic and gripping to watch. The supporting actors were not half bad
either and also made it watch able.

Directors, Måns Mårlind and Björn Stein prove that maybe two heads
aren't that better than one to tackle a flawed story. They do create a
certain atmosphere that evokes fear and some stomach turning images but
didn't really know how to end the story effectively or answer all of
our questions. Writer, Michael Cooney seems to have made the same
mistakes here that he did with his other screenplay Identity, which
also had a great start but ruined it for me with it's lousy last half
that was also illogical, his stories are just uneven to me, but I do
like his effort for trying to bring something different to this mostly
unoriginal genre.

Overall, I can see why they waited so long to release the film, but it
deserves a much better treatment than the crap like Texas Chainsaw 3D,
which made its way to movie theaters way to easily than this. The film
lacks scares, thrills and the story leads to no payoff, but the
performances are solid, the atmosphere, imagery are spooky and the
concept is a nice change of pace. The movie as a whole could have been
so much better and executed with a more terrifying impact, but it's a
whole lot more decent than what it got treated as, so it's granted at
least one viewing if you want something different from the norm. Just
don't expect too much from this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I had never heard of this film until I found it a few days ago. I had
enjoyed Identity a lot and was expecting more of a psychological
thriller - the first half of the film was exactly that and then turned
into a pretty good supernatural horror.

Julianne Moore is as gorgeous as ever and plays the part very well - a
bit like Tally in The Forgotten. Jonathan Rhys Meyers was excellent -
the only film I've seen before with him in it was Alexander and can't
remember him in it but this role was a revelation - he actually
reminded me of a young Daniel Day Lewis. The always underrated Jeffrey
DeMunn was good too.

This film is no Omen or The Shining so 8/10 is a pretty fair rating in
my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Måns Mårlind and Björn Stein's 'Shelter' is very much just another one
of those horror movies that classifies itself as a 'supernatural
thriller' in order to appear more classy and cool. The direction seems
confused and even if the film is well shot, it's nothing outstanding.
Clichés and plot holes are abundant in 'Shelter' (which is very much
the case with most movies of this genre) and it has a disappointingly
typical ending that tries to be haunting. It tries to be tricky by
initially giving the impression of being a psychological thriller and
then the writer throws in the occult to tell you that it's actually a
horror film. Would fans of 'The Ring' like it (as the promos suggest)?
Probably. Julianne Moore does a great job. I only watched 'Shelter'
because she was in it. Her castmates are okay at best with the
exception of Frances Conroy who stands out as a mother who lost three
sons. Overall, 'Shelter' is a disappointing film that has absolutely
nothing new to offer.
<|_=00=_|>
6 SOULS has a compelling and unique storyline that nicely intermixes
spiritual and psychological elements: There are some very original
ideas here. It's well-produced and cinematized with realistic acting by
all. It has the necessary focus but still leaves room for individual
interpretation, the sort of film that you can watch multiple times,
picking up new details and subtleties with each view. At times it seems
pro-Christian, at times anti-Christian, or at least critical of the
superstitious-fundamentalist brand of Christianity. Again, the
religious elements are clear enough yet also vague enough.

The plot does drag and meander a good bit. There are also some of the
usual tired old demon-tropes (people throwing up black goop, etc).
Still,this film has a fairly solid mythos behind it and relies more on
surprise and suspense than it does raw schlock. While nothing truly
special, 6 SOULS is probably worth seeing if you like
psychological/supernatural horror and have been disappointed by most
other recent films in this genre.

The ending leaves room for an interesting sequel. . .7 SOULS?
<|_=00=_|>
Actress Julianne Moore to me seemed an actress who chooses her projects
carefully. This movie proves that it is just random. For the love of
god I can't think of a reason for an actor or actress to do this kind
of role other than money. There is no challenge at all. The story had a
strong start but then took a deep dive. I understand that it is hard to
come up with new angles on certain psychological issues but why use
them in the first place. The writers and the director didn't know to
solve their problem either and took the easy way out. While in the
first half there is room for more interpretations in the second half
there is only one interpretation left which asks too much of the viewer
especially with the whole hillbilly nonsense. Jonathan Rhys Myers was
adequate enough although there wasn't a moment he was menacing enough
to be taken seriously. People kept dying in the movie and only in one
scene did it seem to affect me since the drama was laid on so thick
there was no escaping it. The slow pace and the loud sound effects
ruined the creepy ambiance that was created. Loud sound effects usually
are effective if it is followed by a strong scene in which something
bad happens. In this movie we only have the loud sound effect,which is
a very cheap trick to attract attention especially when nothing is
happening on the screen to justify these sounds. I wished I could be
more positive about the movie. But sadly the whole movie felt like a
complete waste of time. Don't bother watching this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Supernatural isn't my cup of tea, but I will give points to Shelter for
doing more than just keeping me in my seat. At times, it reminded me of
Shyamalan's better days. Though very much a slow mover, Shelter is
haunting and gripping, shot perfectly and never too superficial.
Julianne Moore, is a compelling lead, and there is enough 'human' in
the character to deserve some credit, and earn some sympathy from the
viewer. Horror movies almost by nature, don't have a heart, but this is
one of the few that has some.

The one problem with the movie, is that the plot is heavy. The first
hour may seem a little disoriented, but the scenario brings everything
together with enough coherency in the last act. The matter in which it
does so however raises some questions that are left unanswered, and
could qualify as plot holes. 

As a straight to video release, one would not typically set high
expectations. Shelter exceeded mine, It's not a film for an impatient
viewer, but it's an appetizing ghost story if you are looking for one
such film.
