
Most reviews will tell you what's so great about this movie and why
it's worth watching, but I figured you should hear the other side of
the story.

First of all a small note for Tolkien fans. If you thought An
Unexpected Journey strayed a bit too far from the book: The Desolation
of Smaug looks like the script writers didn't even know there was a
book. The movie tries hard to change the story wherever it can,
reducing fan-favorite chapters to 5 minute scenes and writing new
content that feels out of place.

But it's not only bad if you've read the book. I really wonder what the
target audience is, because it feels like it's written for 15 year old
boys. There are random action scenes every 10 minutes and 'funny'
decapitations every 30. The worst thing here is that the action comes
at the cost of character development. You have a band of 13 Dwarfs and
a Hobbit, yet you rarely see them interact.

Now I like Elves more than Dwarfs, so I didn't mind seeing so much of
them in this movie. But having them show up in every place to save the
day feels wrong. Perhaps Peter Jackson thought his cast of Dwarfs
wasn't good enough to create an enjoyable movie? Gandalf's scenes in
Dol Guldur were an interesting addition in concept, but they are just
too slow. I feel his scenes mostly serve as an attempt to raise The
Hobbit to The Lord of the Rings' level of epicness. And that just
doesn't work.

The story is full of illogicalities. How does entering the mountain to
steal the Arkenstone to unite the Dwarfs to kill the Dragon to enter
the mountain work exactly?? And remember that heartwarming last scene
of An Unexpected Journey, where Thorin finally accepts Bilbo? Well,
that's all gone again. Even though he keeps outsmarting all the Dwarfs,
Bilbo is back to being an unappreciated 5th wheel of the party. And did
the writers really think viewers would be so desperate for a love story
that they'd enjoy an Elf and a Dwarf flirting it up? Their scenes feel
forced and are painful to watch.

Martin Freeman's acting is top notch again, but sadly he hardly gets
any screen time. He only shines in his scene with Smaug. Now Smaug as a
character is awesome, no complaints there. Yet most of his scenes are
way too dragged out. There's a 20 minute scene with the Dwarfs running
around thinking they can defeat him. Only at that point the movie
already hinted at the only possible way of defeating him. Perhaps the
worst aspect is that these scenes make Smaug look like an unintelligent
creature. Dwarfs luring a Dragon around by going "Nana-nanana you can't
catch me!" is not only silly and clich√©, it's an insult to Smaug's
character.

Final complaint: the whole movie builds up to a scene.... that's
apparently going to be the opening scene of movie 3. Nobody in the
cinema was sure if the movie had ended, or there was just an awkwardly
long pause when the screen went black.

A movie like this you'll want to see, no matter how good or bad it is.
You can't miss out on such a huge release, especially when it looks
gorgeous in HFR 3D. But where I watched each Lord of the Rings movie 3
times in cinema, watching The Desolation of Smaug just once was enough
for me.

In the end, most problems of the movie seem to stem from the decision
to turn the cute Hobbit tale into three epic movies that have to live
up to the Lord of the Rings hype. It doesn't work.
<|_=00=_|>
I won't "review" the content of the movie in any detail, but provide
some thoughts about how this film should be approached. I consider
myself a Tolkienist (in fact I saw this movie on opening night because
I secured a promotion deal with the local cinema: I spent four hours
until midnight writing people's names in Elvish writing!) It is to be
expected that many fans of of the original book will perceive this
movie as a bloated, garbled monster version of the written story they
loved. It is important to realize, before going in, that this is not
simply "the movie of the book". This is Jackson's The Hobbit, not
Tolkien's, and they are best appreciated as independent works. They
represent different media, come from different centuries, and have
partly different target audiences. The children's book was written
before Tolkien had any idea of the grand trilogy to follow; Jackson had
already produced his Lord of the Rings trilogy and somewhat
understandably tries to make the prequels resemble it, in tone and
scope.

One could argue that Jackson's Hobbit trilogy, when complete, will set
up the LotR film trilogy far better than Tolkien's simple children's
book sets up the literary LotR. (The change in tone from children's
book to grand epic is VERY pronounced, even grating for those who try
to read The Hobbit after finishing LotR.) Incidentally, Jackson's
prequel trilogy apparently will not spoil the LotR trilogy the way the
Star Wars prequels give away important plot points of the original
movies. When finished, Jackson's six Middle-earth movies can be
profitably watched in sequence of internal chronology.

To be sure, Jackson's Hobbit trilogy is "based on" the 1930s children's
book in the sense that the characters have the same names and visit
much the same places in somewhat the same order (though new characters
and places are also added). Their basic motivations are also the same.
But beyond that, one should not expect much "fidelity". There is hardly
anything that isn't greatly embellished and vastly elaborated, mostly
so as to allow for a FAR darker tone and MUCH more fantasy action
(i.e., fights). The spiders of Mirkwood here approach actual horror, as
compared to their rather more children-friendly literary counterparts
(where we have Bilbo insulting them with silly "Attercop" rhymes).

The wizards' conflict with the Necromancer of Dol Guldur, which in the
book happens entirely "offscreen" and is just briefly alluded to when
Gandalf has returned near the end, is here actually shown. This is
understandable; Gandalf would otherwise be completely absent for much
of this movie. Also, Jackson's audience will already know that this is
the start of the war with Sauron, and the all-important Dark Lord could
not well be ignored. Tolkien in his letters noted how Sauron casts just
"a fleeting shadow" over the pages of The Hobbit; in Jackson's movie
the shadow is darker and deeper.

Entire new subplots are freely created and added to the story. The Elf
Tauriel and her unlikely infatuation with one of the Dwarfs is clearly
meant to add a love story where the book has none, and have at least
ONE strong female character (no concern of Tolkien's when he wrote a
story for children in the 1930s).

The continued survival of ALL the protagonists despite their endless
brushes with death doesn't just strain credibility -- it utterly and
completely banishes and eliminates credibility. We are left with
FANTASY action in the truest sense, to be enjoyed for choreography, not
plausibility. If cats have nine lives, a Jacksonian Dwarf clearly
enjoys a three-digit number of lives.

So, viewed as an independent work, is this a good movie? Technically it
is nothing short of brilliant, full of detail that can only be
appreciated on the big screen. Smaug is, hands down, the best-designed
movie dragon the world has yet seen. If I were a teenager instead of a
ripe old 42, this wealth of fantasy action would probably have exited
me no end. It is nice to see Legolas again, even if he is not in the
book. I liked the sequences with the amorphous Sauron. Poor Evangeline
Lily would however look better without those silly ears, which are
simply too big and look just as fake as they are. Also, I'm not sure
the hinted-at Elf-Dwarf romance adds much to the story. All things
considered, I'll award Jackson's re-imagined "The Hobbit" seven stars.

There were also seven stars in Durin's crown, for those of you who can
understand the literary allusion ...
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie in 2D because I hated the 3D HFR in the first Hobbit
movie. I thought the HFR just made the movie sets look like sets
instead of being part of the movie universe. I much preferred the 2D
experience here and it was easier for me to try to immerse myself in
the movie. Regrettably there were too many things that were wrong with
the movie for me to achieve that. 

This movie had a budget of something like 200 million dollars, over
double that of any of the individual movies of the original trilogy.
Where did all that money go? To that mostly horrid CGI? There was just
bloody too much of it like in the first movie. Everything looks so damn
fake with the CGI slammed front and center with no artistic attempt to
hide its shortcomings. For example, when Legolas starts chasing Bolg
out of Laketown, even his horse is made with CGI. Why? Couldn't you
afford to rent one horse? The orcs were mostly made with CGI and they
weren't menacing in the slightest. The few scenes with actual actors
with makeup playing the orcs were far superior. Erebor looked quite
good in general with its mountains of coins and treasures but the
melted gold looked unbelievably bad. Many of the actual sets in the
movie were very well done and I'm really puzzled why they didn't use
them more. The CGI in LOTR looked far more convincing and epic, the
large establishing shots looked like grand paintings come alive. What
happened here? I don't get it. It felt like I was watching a video game
and I don't want to feel that way when I'm watching a movie. Granted,
the original trilogy did have a bit of silly looking CGI here and there
but at least it was constantly grounded by real sets. 

There was also some really weird editing here too. The movie is already
way too long and they still include absolutely pointless scenes. For
example, when Gandalf is climbing the stairs by the mountain and the
ledge gives up, the movie suddenly cuts to a sweeping shot of the
mountain side. Why not just stay with Gandalf, it would provide more
intensity. There's many examples like this. In Mirkwood when Bilbo is
snapping at the spider web they shouldn't zoom deep into the web with
the camera. Stuff like this tells nothing and adds nothing to the film.
This also takes time away from the character development. When one of
the dwarfs oversleeps and misses the boat to Erebor, I couldn't even
remember who he was and why I should care that he was stranded in
Laketown. Also, the most puzzling and distracting choice in the movie
was using that weird POV camera footage in the barrel scenes, it looked
so utterly different that it took me out of the movie completely. 

The action could've been cut down significantly too. There was no real
context or meaning for most of it anyway. Also, after Legolas has
killed his umpteenth orc in yet another physics-breaking and miraculous
way, you simply lose interest. He can apparently do anything. My
feeling is that in the original trilogy the "laws of physics" so to say
were merely bent somewhat, here they're completely shattered. All of
this may sound nitpicky but I'm essentially doing this because the
movie didn't get me emotionally invested in it in a positive way at
all.

The movie wasn't particularly funny either despite its lighthearted
source material, I laughed much more heartily in many parts of the
original trilogy. The Gimli joke was quite funny though. There was also
absolutely no memorable music in this movie and none of it moved me
like much of the music did in the original trilogy. I didn't get
shivers at any point of the movie.

It wasn't all bad or mediocre though. Smaug was magnificent and
Benedict Cumberbatch did a great job voice acting the dragon,
definitely something to witness in a theater. Smaug's discussions with
Bilbo were also great. Gandalf's venture into Dol Guldur was also
interesting though that is mainly because Ian McKellen is such a fine
actor that he can catch your attention with ease. The cameos by Peter
Jackson in the beginning eating the carrot and by Stephen Colbert as
the Laketown spy were fun even though I think they might've been too
distracting had I loved the movie. The pacing in the movie is a bit of
a mixed bag. The first movie had bad pacing because it was overly long
without anything really happening. Desolation of Smaug swings the
pendulum to the other end with endless action sequences pasted after
another. Sure it's more exciting to watch but it was dearly missing
some slower sequences to digest everything. 

I'm a massive fan of the original trilogy but the first two Hobbit
movies simply haven't captured the epicness and magic of those movies
at all. And if the Hobbit wasn't intended to feel epic, then why make
it into three movies? There's also something else I don't get. The
original movie trilogy adaptation established what the LOTR universe
looked and felt like. Is the Hobbit trilogy still supposed to happen in
that same universe? I didn't ever feel like anyone was in any serious
danger because they survive crazier and crazier encounters after the
next and because of that there's no tension. This wasn't the case with
the originals. Huge spiders were very dangerous in LOTR, here Bilbo is
just killing them off left and right. I just wish they'd taken much
more liberties with the material and really placed this story into the
grittier universe that was established by the original trilogy. Or
maybe they should've done something completely different instead of
trying to imitate the originals and coming short of them. Anything but
this.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is more of a bad Steven Seagal
clone than an adaptation of well-read literature. The first film in the
new trilogy, An Unexpected Journey, was very good, with one problem
I'll mention later. If the worst decision Director Peter Jackson made
was to include Orlando Bloom and Evangeline Lilly, which seems to be
the case for the professional praise-givers, this film would be
fantastic. However, it just so happens that there's this little thing
Jackson and his fellow writers forgot to do: make sure the movie
resembles the book.

I'm sure most people who saw the first movie remember the leading
villain Azog. Well, in case you haven't read the book, page 251 of my
1997 Houghton Mifflin copy states "Bolg of the North is coming, O Dain!
whose father you slew in Moria." In the section on Durin's Folk in
Appendix A of the Lord of the Rings, it is stated that Dain Ironfoot,
who is supposed to appear in the next film, slew Azog in the big Dwarf
vs. Goblin battle we see as a flashback in film one. This means that
the entire Azog subplot is just one big fan-fiction. It is one thing to
include the son of the Elven-King (Legolas) even though he is not
mentioned in the book, after all, is it so inconceivable that Legolas
would be near his father? It is an entirely different matter when a
character is included even though he has been dead for over 100 years!

Continuing with our game of "What is timeline consistency?", we come
across Gandalf. Gandalf ends movie 2 in a cage at Dol Guldur. Beyond
the fact that there is no rationale for such a decision, we know from
Appendix B that Gandalf reports the existence of Sauron to the White
Council and then takes part in the attack on Dol Guldur. After that
battle, he proceeds to save Bilbo's life right before the Battle of
Five Armies. Based on this film's timeline and what part of the
original timeline still remains, Gandalf has but a handful of days to
accomplish all that I have listed.

My copy of The Hobbit is 271 pages long. The US edition of Harry Potter
and the Sorcerer's Stone is 310 pages. Why in the name of Eru do you
need three movies for this story? I understand and would have gladly
stood behind two films, therefore allowing for extended action
sequences and a limited reduction in content. Three films should be
more than enough to cover the entire book but apparently not for Peter
Jackson. 

Beorn is trimmed down to the importance of Celeborn, then we watch a
ridiculously long giant spider sequence, then the dwarfs are captured
for maybe three hours Middle-Earth time, then we watch an overly long
fan-fiction chapter about Azog's friends being killed by our two elf
heroes. Note that Bolg is able to attack the dwarfs because Jackson
changed the escape from Mirkwood scene in order to allow for more
combat. 

After our craziest bloodbath yet, we have an overly long scene
introducing another Jackson creation: Bard, the Barge-Sailer who
apparently got mixed up with Bard, the Captain of the Guard. You see,
the former makes a whole bunch of claims that are actually true about
the latter. Why do we need to mess up the Lake-Town sequence? If you
guessed "To set up another impossible bloodbath", give yourself a
vacation to a combat zone. This round of combat is only after we leave
four dwarfs behind because one of them got the Witch-King's knife
disease that Frodo got in Fellowship but this time it came from an
arrow fired by Bolg who has absolutely nothing better to do since Azog
took all his screen time. Of course, Kili is saved by Tauriel, Captain
of the Guard of the Woodland Realm who somehow has the same healing
capability as Lord Elrond Half-Elven, wielder of one of the three Elven
Rings of Power and a direct descendant of the Kings of the Noldor. It
is rather fortunate Tauriel is there, because otherwise, Kili would
have to wait for the next movie to have his deathbed dialogue, provided
Jackson even sends Fili and Kili to Erebor where they're supposed to
be. I'm all for the suspension of disbelief, but this doesn't even make
sense in the fantasy universe.

And don't forget the dragon. In Lake-Town, the viewer is reminded
multiple times that Smaug can only be killed by a special
ballista-bolt, strangely called an arrow, and only in one tiny spot on
his stomach. In the mountain, Bilbo points it out again. But Peter
Jackson apparently pays no heed to the script with his own name on it
and gives the viewer a 30 minute "Let's Kill the Dragon Sequence". Take
a guess who doesn't die in this sequence. If you said Smaug, the Fire-
Breathing Dragon, you are more qualified to direct this movie than
Peter Jackson. 

I loved the Rings film trilogy and, with the exception of Azog, the
first Hobbit film. This film though, has almost no plot development,
almost no consistency with the timeline given by Tolkien, almost no
attention paid to its own script, and entirely too much combat. I
remember Jackson being criticised for the warg battle in Towers but
that did not require any plot change except for the location of the
death of Hama (a very minor change) and the whole Aragorn-cliff-
dream-thing which serves to heighten the tension before a battle that
is done far better in the film. The warg battle helped to make a good
fantasy film. This film seems like it is trying to see how many people
can be killed before it gets an R rating from the MPAA. Deviations from
the book are good if it enables better cinema but not when it allows
for "Let's Kill Everything We See: The Movie".
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so far from the story found in the book that Peter
Jackson wouldn't have needed to get the rights from the Tolkien estate.
I disagree with many of the naysayers who think this shouldn't have
been turned into a three part series. There is plenty of story, action,
and character development in the book to make three reasonable length
films. The issue with how Jackson has handled this "adaptation" is that
they have truncated most of the important elements to the original
story simply so they could make up drawn out action scenes for the sake
of action.

The film immediately came off the rails in what should have been the
queer lodgings chapter. I was fully expecting another fun scene like An
Unexpected Party; where Gandalf lures Beorn into letting a company of
Dwarfs stay in his house. What we get is a rushed scene where the
entire company barrels their way into his barn-ish house fleeing from
Beorn and locking him out of his own house. Then without explanation
Beorn is fine with all the dwarfs piled in his house just because he
hates orcs more then he hates dwarfs. This was one of my favorite
scenes in the book and I was really disappointed with how awful it was
done.

Next we get to the edge of Mirkwood where Gandalf seems to suddenly
discover he needs to go to the south. In the book you get the
impression that Gandalf with his great foresight planned to leave the
party at the edge of the forest long before they got there. With
Gandalf gone the rest of the company immediately become a bunch of
morons who simply get lost in stupidity. The entirety of Mirkwood takes
them less than 15min to traverse which really kills the feeling that
it's a great and massive forest. There was no black river, not once did
Bilbo say attercot to taunt the spiders while luring them away from the
dwarfs. The Elves come in to save the day killing the spiders and then
take the company of dwarfs to their prison cells. No twinkling
lanterns, no fires in little glades that go poof when Bilbo or a dwarf
tries to approach.

They are in and out of the Elvin prison in the blink of an eye with no
sense of time that it took Bilbo to wander around learning his way
around, scrounging for food and concocting his plan to escape. All of
this was rushed through so we could have another action sequence of
orcs chasing the party while elves chased them both but kinda helping
the party of dwarfs. It makes no sense. Something that should have been
done in a few cuts got extended to a 5min+ action sequence so they can
show off their CGI.

I could go on, but I'll skip ahead to the last part that never happens
in the book. The last 15 minutes of the film is a drawn out action
sequence of the Dwarfs and Bilbo battling Smaug inside the Lonely
Mountain. In the book the Dwarfs never engage Smaug at all. The long
straight secret tunnel leading to the hidden door is not long or
straight at all in the film. To top it all off, the ending was cut as
Smaug is flying away toward Lake Town. There is no battle, no burning
of the city, no Smaug getting shot in the breast by Bard and thus
falling into the lake causing it to billow up in a cloud of steam.

In summary this is not The Hobbit. It is some film that Peter Jackson
made up as he went along with what (conservatively) is less than 40%
parts of the books story. If you are a fan of Tolkien you will
undoubtedly be let down by this excuse of a movie.

-Patrick
<|_=00=_|>
We all remember how George Lucas created an amazing trilogy called
"Star Wars," then went back later to do a prequel trilogy and tried to
destroy the franchise by focusing on ridiculous visual effects and
neglecting the story entirely; so too has Peter Jackson fallen.

The five points I have given are purely for the visual aspect of the
movie. It is amazing. But we all expected that.

0/5 for story. Tolkien wrote an amazing little (LITTLE) book called the
Hobbit. Jackson could have fit the important and relevant parts of "An
Unexpected Journey" into about an hour. It is the same here. There is a
ridiculous amount of filler, needless side-plots, and a stupid (for
lack of a better word) love triangle that makes a Ryan Reynolds
romantic comedy seem deep. And I mean OK, I expect filler if you're
going to turn a tiny book into three three hour movies, but at least
keep what happens in the book if you're going to make stuff up. A few
times scenes that were actually written by Tolkien feel rushed and cut
short, while filler scenes seem to drag endlessly.

Smaug had the potential to be great, and started out that way, but the
gross on screen overuse of his character makes you think of a brainless
rat running through a maze searching for cheese rather than the
majestic dragon we all grew up reading about.

I could keep on listing things I did not like (like bringing Legolas
into the film to draw fans, and then overusing every cool thing he ever
did in LOTR until you're sitting in your seat begging him to stop {ex,
he surfs on EVERTYTHING}) but I am going to stop.

Go see the movie on principle, but don't go looking for the nostalgia
of LOTR like I did. Because even though it should be there, any chance
these films had of greatness was lost in the desperate attempt to turn
what should have been one great film into a three year money making
machine.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film for entertainment. I had no expectations. I don't
mind if a director deviates from their source material, provided that
the film works. However, I felt, as I watched, as if someone was
patting my back, and picking my pockets.

There are some beautiful scenes: butterflies flying from the treetops
of Mirkwood, Smaug gradually revealing himself, etc. Nevertheless, the
visual virtuosity is wasted, because the scenes have no emotional
impact. The characters are undeveloped, and barely interact with each
other. There is no tension, no texture, no warmth. The story feels as
fake as the over-the-top special effects.

The screenplay is insultingly bad by any standard. If you consider that
it was adapted from the masterpiece of a world-class philologist, it's
a crime against culture.

If I had to summarize the film, I would call it a juvenile, tasteless,
video game-like action sequence. Take the barrel riders scene. A dwarf
rolls along the shore in a barrel, knocking orcs off the screen,
exactly like in the Donkey Kong Country games. Meanwhile, Legolas and
Tauriel, in god mode, with unlimited arrows, and a perfect aim, are
slaughtering hundreds of orcs. I felt my brain cells dying as I
watched.

In conclusion, I left the theatre feeling violated. The film, to an
even greater extent than its predecessor, embraces three things I
despise about Hollywood: catering to the lowest common denominator,
showcasing special effects at the expense of storytelling, and
blatantly treating filmmaking as a business rather than as high art.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the LOTR movies despite the liberties Jackson took with the
story (especially in The Two Towers) and I found the first Hobbit movie
tolerable but this one stinks. Jackson seems to think that we like his
story-making over Tolkien's. He has used his gratuitously added action
scenes from those movies as the basis for almost the entirety of this
3+hour movie.

There is maybe 15 minutes of this movie that is from the book. The rest
is stuff that Jackson wrote and never-ending CGI action shots that have
such fast moving elements that you can barely tell what is going on and
the characters perform feats that stretch belief so far that even the
fantasy-world of Middle Earth cannot overcome. The character of Bilbo
is diminished almost to a supporting one. The main characters of this
movie are Tauriel and Legolas (the former made up by Jackson, the
latter never appears in The Hobbit) and Bard. The character of Bard is
totally changed from the noble protector of Lake-town to that of a
ruffian on the margins of Lake-town society. The dwarfs were portrayed
in the book as being a little cowardly, very greedy and bumbling. In
the movie they are like a pack of Jackie Chan's with beards, even
taunting the dragon to chase them through the halls of Erebor to try to
catch him in a trap. From a cinematic critique Jackson continues his
habit of massively exaggerating the scenery vertically so that as the
party is making there way up the side of the Lonely Mountain it seems
like they are climbing the Matterhorn.

I could go on and on. Bottom line is this movie is lousy. I have
watched each of the LOTR movies several times; I don't think I could
sit through this movie for a second time.
<|_=00=_|>
Admittedly, I am biased from having read the wonderful book, but it
looks like Peter Jackson has been writing his own story. He keeps
making up pointless crap as an excuse to add more CGI and more fighting
scenes. If you are looking for mindless fighting, zero dialogue, an
overuse of CGI that would leave James Cameron shaking his head in
disbelief, then sure, this movie is probably for you! However, if you
are looking for the same emotion and magic that the book brings out in
you, prepare to be disappointed, over and over again.

Beorn is in the movie for about a minute and has the eloquence of a
donkey with autism. Mirkwood before the elves appear is barely five
minutes long. Which means the spiders disappear before they even got
the chance to appear, and there is no Bombur falling in the water, and
nothing to lure them off the path, they just get lost because they are
extremely dumb dwarfs. Orcs are chasing them wherever they go, and the
barrel- ride out of Mirkwood is a 20-minute long scene where nothing
really happens, except a lot of orcs die, and Kili gets shot with a
poisonous arrow(?). Then they bribe Bard into smuggling them past the
guards into Lake-town. Apparently Bards ancestor shot off a piece of
dragon scale under his left wing, so Bard already knows of the Dragon's
weakness. No thrush has to tell him anything... All the dwarfs race
into Smaug's lair and go on a rat-race in which Smaug is too brainless
to actually kill anyone, and when he has an absolutely obvious shot at
it, he suddenly has a change of heart and decides to let them live.
Also, four of the dwarfs are still in Lake-town tending to the poisoned
Kili and fighting orcs with the elves. Make sense? Not really, no. The
book has been torched, and Peter Jackson has rewritten it the way it
was (probably) intended; as a fighter-book with cool environments, cool
people who say cool things, cool dwarven caves and cool statues. The
things I have pointen out are only a few of the many changes and
disappointments from the movie. Who needs a good story with all this
CGI?

The acting is dreadful, the dialogue is dreadful, the CGI is dreadfully
overused, the plot is dreadful (it's not the same as the book, believe
me.) But the dragon was pretty cool. So therefore: 2/10.
<|_=00=_|>
About three minutes in to The Hobbit: the Desolation of Smaug we find
ourselves back in the company of our merry dwarfs, a wizard and a
hobbit as they yet again find themselves fleeing from Azog the
incompetent orc, who is attempting to kill them. The scene is fast,
action packed and not particularly exciting. When the scene is finally
at an end we are served with some forgettable dialog where the company
discusses the danger they are in, accompanied by some dramatic
background music. It's a sign of things to come. This is basically how
you will spend the next 150 minutes or so: long, drawn out action
scene, short futile discussion with dramatic background score, new
drawn out action scene. Throughout the movie I found myself desperately
searching for moments of silence. Scenes that would allow the audience
a break from this video game like narrative, but it was almost never to
be found. 

Now let me shoot in that I like to enjoy brainless action in movies and
video games for that matter, but that doesn't mean that it's right for
this movie. The Hobbit is an adventure film and should play out like
fairy tale. But this fairy tale suffers from a lack of restraint. It
has too much action, and amazingly, too much score. It has never been
an annoyance in the past, but really, does every piece of dialog have
to be accompanied by score? The source material for this film; the
passages of the book which describe the long walk through Mirkwood
forest, the escape from the elves and the arrival in Lake town are some
of the funniest, most memorable and imaginative from the entire book.
To my disappointment, all the charming little scenes where Bilbo runs
around invisible with his ring to help the dwarfs out of new trouble,
are cut short and hastily rushed through. You get the feeling that the
director is short on time and has to get it over quickly, but to make
room for what exactly? How on earth is it that a trilogy consisting of
three 160 minute films, all based on a short book, doesn't have the
time to fully delve in to the most memorable passages from said book?
Especially when these passages would have given the film some much
needed pacing and comical relief. The answer came towards the end. The
reason for why the film needed to move quickly was to make room for new
elaborate and drawn out action scenes - all of them completely
unnecessary for the plot. Now, I am no Tolkien purist, and I don't mind
a little creative freedom if it serves a purpose. In the Desolation of
Smaug, the only purpose seems to have been to satisfy anxious producers
that the film would have enough orc on dwarf/elf/human action, which
they obviously see as the only factor that made the three first films a
success. 

There are no peaks and valleys. Only a succession of ever higher peaks.
Every scene seems more action packed or dramatic than the next, with
hardly any humor at all, leaving us completely numb to everything that
happens. The criticism is one I could also direct at the first Hobbit
movie, but it was nowhere near as unrestrained as this one. The
Desolation of Smaug is more related to Peter Jackson's King Kong than
the original trilogy, and one is left to wonder how the Fellowship of
the Ring would have looked like, if it had been made with the same
creative philosophy as the Desolation of Smaug. In all likelihood the
most charming scenes would have been cut short to make room for an
hour-long battle in Moria. Let us only hope that the next film manages
to show some restraint in the build up the battle of the five armies. 

The only redeeming qualities in this film are the set pieces, which
have been wonderfully put together in the same manner of which we have
come to expect from the previous films. The polish and color filters
could have been toned down a bit, but visually the film is still a
masterpiece.
