
Following 2007's found footage film 'Cloverfield', 10 Cloverfield Lane
is produced from the same womb as its predecessor - but is in no way
part of the same breed. Most production companies operate under the
false ideology that 'bigger is better', however in this instance
Paramount Pictures has opted for a smaller scale production  and it is
a sensational affair.

Vastly superior to its aforementioned predecessor, 10 Cloverfield lane
bears little to no resemblance of its half-brother  and this works to
its advantage in more ways than one. Firstly, the frantic and scatter
shot 'hand-held' found footage technique of the first installment is
ditched for more precise and intimate tripod filmed scenes. This makes
the film vastly more interesting and more engaging than the chaotic
shaky cam that plagued Colverfield. It is almost a breath of fresh air
to see a movie that is so thoughtfully filmed. 

Furthermore, 10 Cloverfield Lane a story that is entirely compelling
for the entirety of its runtime  at no stage does it slow down or
become uninteresting, and at no stage are there any predictable
moments. The dialogue is nothing short of brilliant and keeps you on
edge from start to finish, also due to fantastic execution from its
cast.

The true star of the film however  is John Goodman. In what may just
be one of his finest performances in more recent years, Goodman keeps
the audiences eyes glued to the screen and keeps you entirely engaged
throughout. Cloverfield's acting wasn't at all that great  it was
rather average in all honesty  but this film brings something else.
Goodman puts on an absolute powerhouse of a performance, and the rest
of the cast are brilliant strong as well.

Ultimately, Bolstered by an intriguing premise, brilliant performances
and ever changing storyline, 10 Cloverfield Lane never becomes boring
and never fails to intrigue, and is arguably one of the best Sci-Fi
films of the last few years.
<|_=00=_|>
Two months ago, no one knew that 10 Cloverfield existed, let alone was
about to be wide released in theaters. One month ago, no one had any
idea how, if at all, this film was related to the 2008 film Cloverfield
except for the obvious title and produced J.J. Abrams. And now, all is
revealed. Sort of. Here's my review.

One of the greatest things 10 Cloverfield Lane has to offer is that the
audience really has no idea what to expect going into the film. Very
much in the J.J Abrams way, the production for this film has been left
completely under-wraps and the trailers have revealed next to nothing.
That's one of the benefits for the movies, so I'm not going to spoil or
give anything away in my synopsis or the review. I won't even tell you
if this movie is indeed a Cloverfield sequel or if it's something
different altogether. You'll have to find out for yourself, because I
can tell you right now that you should spend the money to go see it in
theaters.

I'll be brief. A woman we know very little about named Michelle (Mary
Elizabeth Winstead) is involved in a car crash in a breath taking
opening credit sequence. She wakes up a few days later to find herself
in an underground bunker with Howard (John Goodman), a large and crazed
eyed farmer standing above her. He tells her that she can't leave,
because some sort of disaster has happened and it's not safe to go
outside. Finding herself alone with Howard and another man named Emmett
(John Gallagher Jr.), and I'm stealing their tag line here because it's
a dang good tag line, they find out that Monsters come in many forms.

Obviously I had no idea to expect when I went into 10 Cloverfield Lane.
No one did. But within the first five minutes they set the tone so you
know what kind of movie they are going for, and I found myself
instantly engaged. For the rest of the film, I was floored with what
was going on. Director Dan Trachtenberg takes the reigns on creating a
film that will hit you with the unexpected, and leave your jaw hanging.

The best word I could think of to describe this film while I was
watching it was claustrophobic. For the scenes that takes place in the
bunker (I'm not saying how much of the screen time that actually is)
they create such an intense and nervous atmosphere that you feel
yourself getting antsy along with the characters. 

That's because for almost the whole film, we don't really know what's
going on. We know what John Goodman is telling us and leading us to
believe, but we have no idea if that's reliable or not. We discover
things along with the characters, which is why this film is such a good
build up. When the conclusion to the film finally comes, you leave more
than satisfied. But don't ruin it for yourself by looking up online
spoilers to see if it is a Cloverfield sequel. Spend the money. See the
movie. Find out for yourself. It's worth it.

I've heard the argument and I've sited it a few times in past reviews,
that the best way to bring out great performances in actors is to lock
them in a single setting film where they having nothing to hide their
performance behind. That's what happens here. Mary Elizabeth Winstead,
an actress who deserves to get more work than she does, played the
character so well as she captures the nervous ticks without acting
completely helpless the whole time. In the end, she was pretty bad-ass.
John Gallagher Jr., a character who could have been super annoying,
ended up being great in the film too, and had really good chemistry
with Mary Elizabeth Winstead.

But the stand-out of the film if John Goodman. John Goodman is in so
many films every year that we sometimes take him for granted and forget
how good of an actor he can be when he's not mailing it in (whatever
Hangover film he was in. I forget) but rather commits whole heartedly
to a role. That's what happens here. He could have easily over-cooked
his performance where it came of as cartoon-y or unrealistic, but he
hit just the right level of disturbing and off-putting where you are
crept out by the guy but you can't be sure if he's in the right or
wrong. It's a performance similar to Joel Edgerton's in The Gift.

ALSO just read on IMDb that Bradely Cooper's voice appeared over a
cell-phone in one scene. I knew I had heard the voice somewhere but I
couldn't put my finger on it until now.

At no point of 10 Cloverfield Lane does the film slow down or lose
interest. It uses it's hour and forty five minute runtime, a
surprisingly long one for this type of film, to achieve the best
possible effects. The film flies by and I found myself never wanting it
to be over. 

10 Cloverfield Lane is a movie you should rush out to the theater to go
see. Accept that you know nothing about it going in, and enjoy that
experience. Because it's something that doesn't happen often and it's a
rare gift when it does. 10 Cloverfield Lane has a lot to offer despite
the fact that it's a very small film. In fact, regardless of the fact
if they are in the same universe, I'll say I enjoyed 10 Cloverfield
Lane more than I enjoyed Cloverfield itself. And I want to see the
story continued in a sequel. 10 Cloverfield Lane gets an A-, it's one
of my favorite films of 2016 so far. Go see it this weekend. " -
brands42
<|_=00=_|>
I'll leave this review fairly concise. 

This film was originally called "the cellar" the premise being what we
see for the first 90% of "10 cloverfield lane": an excellent,
brilliantly-scripted thriller set in an underground bunker, the tension
lying in the "goodie-or-baddie" mystery that is the owner of the
bunker, Howard. He is telling our hero, Michelle, that she cannot leave
because the air outside is not breathable due to an attack, probably
nuclear. She wants to leave because she suspects that Howard is insane.

That premise right there is perfect. Is Howard telling the truth? Is he
a deranged kidnapper? Will Michelle eventually decide to leave? Is the
air really breathable outside? The magnitude of that intrigue would
have made for a brilliant film. 

Would have.

This is when JJ Abrams and bad robot came in and basically did what
they do with the end of every single project they ever take on. Ruin
it. Ruin it absolutely horrifically. They have clearly seen monetary
value in the name "cloverfield" and are insisting on making it a
franchise. Do we expect monsters going into this film? Yes. Do we get
them? Yes. Was it necessary? Absolutely one million percent no. 

10 minutes from the end of what had been a gripping film, we finally
see Michelle leave, and escape the bunker. She realises that the air is
still breathable. Now, "pre-abrams" as I'll refer to it, this would've
been an excellent ending. A bittersweet tale of abuse, of loneliness
from Howard's point of view, of revenge, of victory. But with a huge
psychological trauma to go home with. Honestly this film would be
perfect had it ended here. But it wasn't to be.

This is when the aliens come. We seem to in the blink of an eye turn
from "the cellar", a brilliantly told thriller, into an Abrams,
overly-Hollywood, big budget cringefest. For me, it wasn't the moment
the spaceship came on the screen, it was the moment our timid hero,
portrayed brilliantly up until now, who'd just been crying
uncontrollably with relief at the air still being breathable, suddenly
turns stern action hero. She looks up and says "you have GOT to be
kidding me", in the same emphatic way we've seen in 600 "five out of
ten" films down the years. 

I'm sorry, but you've just seen alien life. And that's your reaction?
In what until now was a very realistic, well told suspense thriller?
Not having it for a second. It was like we could see the moment Abrams
took over. And it ruined what could have been a classic.

The remaining 9 minutes are nothing more than a glorified creature
feature, culminating in our hero, who's suddenly lost all her emotions,
driving off to help the "human resistance" fight against the aliens.

End of movie. What amazes me most is the number of critic reviews I've
seen saying "the aliens are a metaphor for what is outside a person's
lonely bubble of abuse" or some nonsense along those lines. Sorry guys
but you're thinking WAY too much into it. This is a story of a
money-grabbing company, who bought a perfectly good script, and ruined
the ending with aliens. 

I'm not entirely sure what I expected in all honesty. It's Abrams. I
saw the ending to LOST and vowed never to make the mistake of investing
my time in any of his projects again. Sure enough, I made the
aforementioned mistake again and it's almost as bad as LOST was (minus
the 5 years of my life id invested for the lovey-dovey, semi-religious,
out-of- ideas cop out snoozefest that was the ending to LOST). 

Abrams strikes me as one of those who inexplicably takes pride in
disappointing his audiences, as if he feels he's somehow above them and
that the negative reviews are just people who don't "get" him. I think
in all honesty it's more a sign that he's just not very good at what he
does. 

My advice? Turn off when you see Michelle remove her oxygen mask.
Pretend that's the end and you have your film of the year. Watch on for
yet another example of "how to ruin a perfectly decent project: by JJ
Abrams"

5/10. 10 for the first hour and a half, minus 5 for the last 10
minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
10 Cloverfield Lane gives all the development and the meaningful story
that its blood relative installment lacked completely. This is not a
spectacle full of screams and special effects. This is a spectacle of
tension and suspense of epic proportions. This is a really feel-bad
movie at certain points.

First of all, you have to take the leap of faith and go ahead watching
without knowing anything of the plot. Don't worry because all the
teasers doesn't reveal anything important, but don't try to search
information. If everything were that easy, even Hitchcock or Nolan
movies would lose all interest.

I was extremely hooked since the furious start to the eye popping and
surprising finale. The direction is amazing and claustrophobic. The
performances are great, looking up to a surprising Winstead and a
unrestrained unforgettable turn by Goodman. The story is gleefully
unapologetic delivering chills and full blooded twists (the biggest of
all is the intense ending reveal) even thought it deviates from the
monster POV storyline.

Secretly made, impeccably marketed, nicely developed and finally here
along with us: 10 Cloverfield Lane promised thrills and delivered it
and then some. I was expecting some things that I tasted but I was
surprised by a complexity and a twisted sense of horror that I didn't
see coming. 2016 has released the very first great movie of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
If this is going to be an anthology or if this is going to be followed
by that rumored third installment that has been recently spoiled by
J.J. Abrahms, I can say that nobody doubts about the secretly marketed
"10 Cloverfield Lane" is a great movie on its own. And a movie that if
it were spoiled by someone here or at any review would be cruel.

Since the start it reveals to be a movie that doesn't hide an ace, but
a hundred.

The pace can be a little slow at the first half only to add more and
more tension, hooking the audience and introducing them into the movie
like they were one of the people inside that bunker.

John Goodman will be a real trend the future days thanking its superb
performance. He's so twisty, complex developed character. He and Mary
Elisabeth Winstead make the movie shine alongside the story.

The story is so little, then so game-changer, with twists and turns
that are smart rather than empty. It's one of that makes you guess all
the time.

The ending is more of a bang than a whimper. Even when it succumbs to
the action and polemic moves, it will leave you on a grim and high
note, pestering for another outing if it's any good like this.

If the "Cloverfield" that started it all was about speaking without
breath and CGI scares, this "10 Cloverfield Lane" is about deeper
intentions, deeper tension and personal stuff that is scarier than a
giant monster. While the connection to that movie is not so remarkable
until the finale, this installment is so brilliant on its own, so well
marketed (without ruining any twist) and so well ended that will surely
please any viewer who were looking for a damn good movie. This is a
scary movie like the classic ones. Don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
Full disclosure: The year is 2007. A trailer hits cinema screens
advertising a mysterious film named "Cloverfield." Nobody knows what
it's about, except that it's riding on the wave of the found footage
genre, and that it seems to depict a giant monster attack on New York.
Speculation immediately breaks out all over the internet, but nowhere
more fiercely than on the IMDb forums, with many folks being caught up
in the genius viral marketing. I myself was one of those people, along
with my wife. Yes, we met on IMDb's Cloverfield forum. She moved from
the US to Australia a few years after, we got married, and we've lived
together happily ever since.

Yes, that is the power of film; it can bring people together in the
most unlikely ways possible.

So, it's with some excitement that we were blindsided by the brief and
vague advertising campaign for 10 Cloverfield Lane. Does it have any
connections to the original Cloverfield? What's JJ Abrams playing at
here, exactly? Without giving too much away, it's not a direct sequel,
but rather a sequel in tone. I'm assuming Abrams is going for an
anthology style series here, with each entry being a different story
tied together by their themes and science-fiction setting. It's clearly
a marketing thing, but if that means we'll get more films like this,
I'm certainly okay with it.

10 Cloverfield Lane eschews its predecessor's found-footage trappings,
and immerses us in a classic style bottle thriller. The setting is
limited and claustrophobic, and the cast small, but the story and
tension will grab you and not let up until the end. The nature of the
mystery means your opinion will hang very precariously on whether you
like that ending, and I suspect it will be divisive. There's not a
great deal of resolution, and if I'm correct in assuming this will be
an anthology series from now on, I doubt we'll ever get any. But that's
fine, because I don't think the story that would follow the film really
needs to be told.

What matters are the performances. John Goodman is the real draw card
here. He gives a stunning turn that is delightful, sympathetic and
absolutely terrifying in equal doses. He's had so many great roles in
the past, but he is unforgettable here. Mary Elizabeth Winstead is also
very likable as the resourceful protagonist. Perhaps a little too
resourceful at times, but for the most part we're with her happily
throughout.

The film looks fantastic despite the cramped environs, with great use
of color and shadow and some interesting cinematography. There are some
nice designs and special effects toward the end of the film, even if
they may be considered a little derivative. The score is tense and
effective, and keeps you on the edge of your seat.

The script is great with very little flab, and if you like these kinds
of stories which lock characters together in tight, paranoid spaces
then you'll find a lot to enjoy here. Just don't go in expecting
Cloverfield 2, because this is not it. It's its own beast, and has a
brave ending that you'll either love or hate.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, if you want to watch '10 Cloverfield Lane', make sure to
avoid any kind of spoilers on the internet. I will try to write this
review without spoilers, even if it's a bit difficult considering the
movie I just witnessed.

'10 Cloverfield Lane' is an amazing mystery/suspense movie that serves
as a sequel to the 2008 hit 'Cloverfield'. I have to say, it's hard to
tell if the greatness of this movie is going to hold up in 10 years
because of how everything surrounding the movie made it better, but I
really really liked it.

Me and my friend tried to avoid the spoilers on the internet and read
as less as possible on the movie before we went to see it. Fortunately,
the brilliant marketing campaign did not reveal anything about the
story, and the fact that it was a sequel to 'Cloverfield' is going to
make you constantly guess. Is it a traditional horror/suspense movie?
Is it a monster movie? Where are the monsters? WHAT IS GOING? (Pretty
much what I kept asking myself all along the movie)

John Goodman was incredible, definitely the standout of this movie. The
soundtrack was great, some jukebox oldies and a thrilling score.

The movie starts with Michelle (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) driving off
from her marriage and taking the road to leave her husband. This is
made with a perfect montage, and there's no dialogue for the first 4-5
minutes of the movie. Then, things take a turn and we are transported
to the bunker you saw in the trailers.

I will say it again, go watch this film, and don't read anything about
it on the internet. I can't recall the last time a movie kept me
guessing like this one. If you tend to get bored and tired by the usual
clichés in movies, buy your ticket to '10 Cloverfield Lane' and enjoy
your time at the movies.

Clever marketing, brilliant story, very good direction, great
performance by the cast, it's hard to complain about this film!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
It isn't very often that you can go see a movie at the theater and not
have the slightest idea of where it'll take you. Even more rare is when
a movie like that delivers a wholly original story that's even more
satisfying than you ever thought it would be.

'10 Clover-field Lane' is a perfect reminder that films can still
surprise us, delight us, and horrify us in a way that's never been done
before. Mark my words, Dan Trachtenberg will be a force to be reckoned
with in the future. His feature length directorial debut is a showcase
for his absolute confidence and strength as a storyteller and
filmmaker, and I can't wait to see what he does next.

Of course, it always helps to have the likes of J. J. Abrams and Bad
Robot standing behind you, and their experience and talent absolutely
boosts this film into the stratosphere.

As far as acting is concerned, Mary Elizabeth Winstead gives her best
performance yet, and shows us a strong lead character who's completely
believable in a situation that plays out like a horrible nightmare.
Speaking of bad dreams, John Goodman turns in a performance unlike
anything he's ever done before, and manages to be both strangely sweet
and unbearably creepy. And John Gallagher, Jr. nails his roll perfectly
and adds some much needed levity to a story that's almost
overwhelmingly claustrophobic.

I've been thinking about what film I could use to compare '10
Clover-field Lane' to, and while I think even a comparison to a
specific film might give too much away, I feel safe in saying that it
is absolutely Hitchcock. It's a brilliant, brilliant movie that's told
in the best possible way: by showing, not telling.

Go and see it as soon as you can.

Source: http://www.megashare-viooz.net/10-cloverfield-lane-2016.html
<|_=00=_|>
To describe 10 Cloverfield Lane in one word: Genreless.

I won't say much about the film as I'm a strong believer of going in
blind, but I will say that the performances, writing, and cinematic
pacing worked perfectly together to create a truly unique film.

I loved watching it, and the moments of comedy sprouting up throughout
made the duality between light-hearted humanity and dark confusion work
perfectly together. I would give the Titles and Credits 10/10 as well,
because they were just so damn fantastic and fresh and reminded me that
titling is an art form like any other in the cinematic Genre. If you
enjoy good film, you will enjoy 10 Cloverfield Lane.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the film and am trying to figure out how to write a review
without giving anything away. 

A woman on the road at night is suddenly in an accident. When she wakes
up you immediately start wondering what direction this film could go
in. It could go down several different paths. You think you've got it
all figured out. Based upon what you are seeing, there really is no
other way to go. Wrong.

At some point things seem to settle into some harmonious normalcy but
then things get ugly and disturbing. Always were a bit disturbing but
more ominous.

The acting is excellent by everyone, the twists and turns very good
especially since these three characters are in an underground bunker.
It is edge of your seat, leaning forward intensity. A wild ride for
sure. Check it out!
