
Saw this at the Venice film festival last week. It had quite a few walk
outs near the beginning (probably the strong Yorkshire accents with
lots of background noise made it unintelligible for non native English
speakers) and they were the lucky ones as it certainly did not improve
over the following 2 hours.

The director's main aim seemed to be to try and shock audiences who
thought they were coming to an Emma Thompson type costume drama by
making the film as morose as possible and throwing in lots of swearing,
violence and a bit of necrophilia. Unfortunately the only shocking
thing was that they had managed to make such a bad film out of a
classic novel.

There were numerous petty things which annoyed me about this film, e.g.
the use of pathetic fallacy with the weather is way over the top (the
Earnshaws live under a constant biblical downpour whereas there rich
neighbours in the next door valley have a climate from a fruit juice
advert); the cameraman either had Parkinson's or had been previously
employed in one of those American police series where reality is
represented by a constantly jerky camera; the actors playing the adult
Cathy and Heathcliff look nothing like their younger selves -
Heathcliff even appears to have changed race!; would a 19th century
strict Christian father be happy with someone sleeping with his teenage
daughter in the house?; would a 19th century Heathcliff be able to swan
around Edgar house willy nilly? I could go on.

Most importantly I think the director fails completely in making us
feel any sympathy for her characters. Heathcliff has a hard time of it
in his youth but has no redeeming features. It's not helped by the fact
that the actor playing the adult Heathcliff is atrociously bad at his
job.

I have no problem with making Wuthering Heights dark and brooding but
make it a bit less daft.
<|_=00=_|>
Like other reviewers I have read Emily Bronte's novel, but I am not
sure we were reading the same book. My strongest impression from first
reading was wonder that the book could be so engaging without a single
character with whom to identify.

The characters in Wuthering Heights are unlikeable; Heathcliff and
Hindley are downright nasty. Hatred, contempt and jealousy are the
overriding emotions of the story. Certainly there is love  strong
passionate love too  but it lives in dark corners and is ultimately
destructive.

This film captures much of the emotion of the book. The first half,
with Heathcliff, Catherine and Hindley as children is played very well
indeed.

Heathcliff's character is determined in these early years at Wuthering
Heights, and so it is in the film. When Heathcliff returns as an adult,
inexplicably played by another actor, his heart has hardened and
revenge, hatred and violence dominate his character. But James Howson
who plays the adult Heathcliff is not up to the task, and nor it
appears is the direction. Heathcliff is certainly violent, but this is
mostly directed against animals seemingly as means of relieving his
frustrations, rather than the depiction of a genuinely violent man. His
appalling treatment of Isabelle is largely glossed over and the film
ends before he starts abusing Hareton. Hatred, contempt and jealousy
are expressed mainly by close-ups of facial expressions, and here
Howson in the finery of his wealth only seems able to portray smugness.

The film lacks a point of view. The camera-work suggests the film is
intended to show things from Heathcliff's perspective, but much seems
to be deliberately obfuscated where Heathcliff would have known exactly
what was going on. The audience is continually kept in the dark,
emphasised by the rain, mist and long nights on the moors and, just in
case we haven't got the idea, by repeated scenes shot out of focus.
This is all very well, adding to atmosphere, but the book manages to
bring the reader into the story; this film seeks to distance the
audience, as voyeurs only. The people we see are the same people we
read about and with much the same character. The children, it is true,
were interesting to watch; but when Heathcliff went away, returning
without comment played by a different actor (and Catherine too for that
matter, but Kaya Scodelario played her role better; she had less to
do), I found I no longer cared about any of them.

Heathcliff played as a black man works well. He is clearly of foreign
extraction in the book  Who knows but your father was Emperor of
China, and your mother an Indian queen  although equally clearly not
'a regular black' (also a quote). A black Heathcliff is far more
convincing than an obviously white English one.

The language is also rather more 'colourful' than in the book. But this
too seems to be justified. It sounds true enough to me and I did not
detect any neologisms. It must be pretty impenetrable to non-native
English speakers, but there is precious little of it. I know Heathcliff
is taciturn, but the silences are unbearable. Even the book has Nelly
Dean to carry the dialogue.

Finally there is the ending. The book more or less describes the story
backwards, starting long after the film has ended and showing
Heathcliff in his ultimate form. The film, quite rightly in my opinion,
is in chronological order (barring some unnecessary and distracting
flashbacks) and covers only Heathcliff's relationships with Catherine
and Hindley. The ending is well chosen in terms of plot, but totally
undermines whatever integrity the film had, for the entire film is shot
without a background soundtrack. What we hear are the sounds of nature,
songs being sung, out of tune and out of time but utterly in character.
A poor band playing a mournful Christmas hymn (the Coventry Carol, is
it?), branches tapping on a window, even though this last does not
sound quite right, all add to the film's bleakness. But then, with only
about a minute to go till the end, there intrudes a modern song played
on modern instruments in a studio. I quite like Mumford and Sons, but
what on earth is that song doing there? At least it could have started
after the credits began to roll; the mood destroyed, this is one film I
did not stay to read them.
<|_=00=_|>
Only months after I read the 1847 Emily Brontë novel and saw the 1993
film adaptation, along comes yet another version of this enigmatic
work. Director Andrea Arnold has taken a bold approach to her
interpretation that, like all movie representations of books, has its
strengths and weaknesses.

The boldest feature of the film is its casting of Heathcliff as black
(Solomon Glave as the youngster and James Howson as the self-made man).
Brontë describes Heathcliff as notably dark and Arnold - who co-wrote
the script - has taken the character a significant step further in a
manner which underlines Heathcliff's difference from the country folk.
The accents are well done with young Cathy (Shannon Beer) perhaps
better than older Catherine (Kaya Scodelario). The photography is
wonderful with stunning views of the Yorkshire Dales (such a contrast
to the more frequent very tight shots) and the sound is brilliant with
a real sense of the wild natural setting.

Set against these undoubted virtues, it has to be said that the
dialogue is so sparse (and sometimes muted) that, unless one has read
the novel, it's often unclear what's going on and, even if you've read
the novel, you sometimes yearn for the film to get a move on and, while
some of the exchanges are taken straight from the novel, others are so
crude that one cannot imagine Brontë ever penning such vulgarities. The
leisurely pace means that, like all except the 1992 version, this one
can only deal with the first half of Brontë's uncomfortable, indeed
bleak, tale, so that one does not see the full, sustained
vindictiveness of the anti-hero.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film about domestic violence, racism, cycles of abuse. It
contains many scenes involving the infliction of pain. This is quite
apart from the love story. So why did it leave my partner and I so
unemotionally affected, apart from the rush of relief at leaving the
cinema? 

Wuthering Heights started well for me; I thought I was going to enjoy
the experience of wild moorland, naturalism, authentic dirt, etc.
Unfortunately, too little attention seemed to be paid to the quality of
some of the cast's acting (some of which was, frankly, embarrassing)
and after the nth roll on the wet moorland grass I began to lose
patience with the lack of attention to the narrative detail.

Yes, the moors looked fantastic. Yes, we got that life was grim. 

But the affectation of the hand-held camera is a metaphor for the film
as a whole. It wobbles about and makes you feel a bit nauseous. And
then it does it over and over again and again until you want to beg for
mercy.
<|_=00=_|>
Andrea Arnold's take on a well-known tale falls flat for a number of
reasons. Her hand-held camera, non-linear montage, and bouts of
frenzied physicality arguably complement her two tales of modern ennui
and angst, Red Road and Fish Tank. However, they seem incongruous
matched against a classic from the literary canon. The audience coming
along expecting to see a period piece are getting a surprise, and
unfortunately it is not a pleasant one. They were the ones walking out
at the screening I went to. The writing was on the wall when their
heart sank as the curtains whirred into place and settled on a 4:3
aspect ratio. That was a bizarre decision - these moors, this
landscape, demand widescreen.

The decision to spend most of the film with the early years of
Heathcliff and Cathy also seems ill-conceived, as the two youngsters
frolic in the mud for an eternity without the story moving forward very
much. They are earthy people of and from the land, the film screams,
like the interminable procession of animals we see depicted. We get
that in the first ten minutes - the rest of the time we are just going
over established territory.

The return of the now successful Heathcliff in the latter half of the
film means the grown up cast having the same effect as substitutes in a
football game - imbibing the audience/spectators with a glimmer of
hope. Alas, it is not to be, as the actor playing Heathcliff is wooden
beyond belief, pipping the actor playing Edgar for the prize. The
actresses around them can act, but it is a poor return on the ticket
price. The film overtly attempts to appeal on visual grounds and as a
result dialogue appears to have been an after-thought, as most lines
are flat and predictable. The racial epithets are not shocking; they
seem more a cynical ploy to garner publicity.

TV frame, incongruous mise-en-scene, poor casting and dodgy racial
politics - any one of these could sink a film, but all four together is
a very tough sell. The biggest sin, however, is to take Wuthering
Heights and imbue it with absolutely no passion at all. The moors look
suitably wild, and there is a strong sense of mud, but beyond that
there are few positives to take from this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Hareton disturbed me the most in this film based on Wuthering Heights.
Dour before his time, he appears now and then in the early scenes, a
dirty blonde-haired urchin, to gawp at visitors, or to witness violent
abuse from the sidelines. In the final scene, he is seen hanging up
dogs by their collars. The depiction of Hareton is related to the
'cruelty breeds cruelty' message in Andrea Arnold's film  and in Emily
Brontë's novel, if that can be seen, glibly, as a straight deliverer of
messages. Considerable respect has been shown to the original: a fair
amount of thought and research seems to have gone into finding out what
was in Emily Brontë's mind and how she saw her characters, and into the
late eighteenth century in Yorkshire. All the artefacts  stoneware
jars, spades for digging out peat and so on  look as if they have been
borrowed from a folk museum, the costumes appear to be authentic, and
Heathcliff is black. All perfectly credible.

The unknown James Howson from Leeds was cast as the adult Heathcliff,
with the equally unknown Solomon Glave as his young version. We do not
find out which language he speaks when he first arrives, because there
is very little speaking in the whole film. It is not dialogue- free,
employing a few sentences and phrases from the novel, rather like the
quotes a candidate might fish out for an A-level essay, with more of
them in the film's second half, after Heathcliff's return, than in the
first. At other times, the words which the characters use seem to have
grown from improvisation sessions, giving the action a kind of Ken
Loach feel at times. To leave out most of Emily Brontë's beautiful
prose  and the second half of her story, as usual  are bold moves
which a few literary folk might find outrageous. I can fully understand
the opinions of those who might describe the film as 'coarse and
disagreeable', but then the structure of the novel does not match the
needs of the cinema. Unlike Cary Fukunaga, who retained as many of
Charlotte's words as possible in his Jane Eyre, Andrea Arnold has gone
in an opposite direction, because she has decided not to bother with
conventional costume dramas.

This Wuthering Heights relies on cinematography, the impact of fresh
and young actors (eat your heart out, Stanislavski), an authentic
period feel and a powerful, often startling harshness. Arnold has said
that she "had to pick out the things that had resonance to me" and that
she wanted to give the children plenty of time at the beginning. 

This was a good move, because the children are by far the most
interesting. Solomon Glave and Shannon Beer have "not acted before",
but manage to be fascinating, holding everything together for an hour.
Full marks to Arnold there. The story is told through sounds and
sights: we see the boy's amazement and disorientation when he arrives,
Cathy's warm smile  the only warmth  a feather brushing a cheek, his
hand on the horse's rump when he rides behind her, his smelling of her
hair, the weals on his back after a beating by Joseph, her mouth as she
licks the blood from them, their crude and muddy sexual fumbling out on
the moors. Sensual imagery with a vengeance! Raw teenage emotion in our
faces! And I loved Shannon Beer's charming rendition of Barbara Allen.
She's a proper wild, wicked slip of a girl.

Irish cinematographer Robbie Ryan won the Golden Osella Award at the
last Venice Film Festival for Best Cinematography, deservedly. His low
shots through clumps of sedge and his panoramas of the moors (filming
took place on the bleaker areas around Hawes in the Yorkshire Dales)
are stunning, but what is especially memorable is his selection of
close-ups of the insects, flowers and small creatures to be found in
the heather and under the bilberries. I was looking out for harebells,
but did not notice any. Perhaps they were the wrong kind of flower
here. The wind sounded right  I recognise that wind  as it battered
the microphone relentlessly.

The creatures of the wild moors a couple of centuries ago have a strong
present-times feel, because casting in this way has put racial
prejudice in the forefront. Heathcliff is full of revengeful passions
because he has been racially abused. The violent skinhead Hindley (Lee
Shaw) is notably foul-mouthed when he does speak, like an adherent of
some far-right organisation, and the enforced baptism scene shows that
the church was pretty short on tender loving care when it came to new
dark-skinned members of the congregation. The West Yorkshire accents
are just right. 

In the second half, the adult Heathcliff (James Howson) does not spend
long on relishing his revenge on Hindley, but that is not the only
disappointment. Both James Howson and Kaya Scodelario, who plays the
adult Cathy, bear only token resemblances to their child counterparts,
and have less presence. Cathy is not differentiated from Isabella
enough, and seems to be unrelated to her younger self, which can not be
explained away by her presence in the sophistication of Thrushcross
Grange, where manners (and the mild weather) are always better.
Heathcliff seems somehow clumsier and less sympathetic, a fact which is
not helped by James Howson's lack of acting experience (more forgivable
in Solomon Glave), and the shots of flowers and insects which sustained
the first half become less effective because they are repeated too
much. James Northcote's acting as Edgar is faultless, but seems out of
place here, as if he has stepped out of another film.

And that other film could be the 1939 version, which is at the other
end of the spectrum.
<|_=00=_|>
My experience was so drastically opposed to what I'd heard about this
film in the newspapers that I was going to write a shocked review here;
but I see that it has already all been said. Wilfully obscure narrative
(I went with someone who had never read the book and had to explain to
him afterwards who was who and what had happened, and why),
self-indulgent overuse of wildlife shots and arty camera angles (once
is good; twice is good; ALL THE TIME is tedious), important plot
developments whisked over in the joints between one scene and the next,
poor performances from the adult actors, jerky camera-work,
insufficient lighting, and a variety of deliberately repulsive scenes
of slaughter, necrophilia, blood-sucking and copulation in the mud (and
I'm not talking about that bizarre bog scene between Cathy and
Heathcliff, clearly intended to be very significant since it was
repeated at the end...)

A lot of the time I felt I was being battered over the head with the
director's insistence that This Is a Very Important Metaphor but simply
didn't understand what the shot of a beetle, or a horse's flank, or a
patch of stone, or yet another rainstorm, was supposed to be saying.
(The one thing I didn't notice, interestingly, was that the film is in
Academy ratio rather than widescreen - probably because the vast
majority of the pictures I watch are not in widescreen and in fact I
generally dislike it, so I certainly wasn't conscious of that as a
drawback.) To be fair, my other companion, who adores the novel,
thought the film was the closest she'd ever seen to capturing the
spirit of the book, although she too was somewhat disappointed in the
'adult' section.

I suppose you could say that it was a disquieting film of a disquieting
book, in which none of the characters were sympathetic because none of
the characters in the original are sympathetic: for my part I found
myself roused to a furious dislike and resentment, so was at least not
indifferent to it. I didn't walk out of what was a sparsely-attended
screening -- I didn't even allow myself to disturb my neighbours by
looking at my watch -- but I fantasised about being able to leave and
was longing for the experience to end.

I think the film has power, which is why I haven't marked it lower than
I have. I also think that in many ways it is a bad piece of
film-making, more akin to a pretentious video installation than the
telling of a complicated and violent story.

The wind really does 'wuther' like that in Yorkshire, though...
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie from the director Andrea Arnold during the 7th film
festival in Zurich (September 2011).

It took all my determination not to walk out of this one. I knew enough
about Arnold not to expect a costume flick, nothing that would remind
the audience of Jane Austen and I didn't expect anything light either.
Bronte's novel isn't exactly light and I was actually looking forward
to a darker interpretation.

What's the story? A young boy named Heathcliff (in this interpretation
he's black) is taken in by a rich family in England, where he gets
abused by his foster brother and where he develops an intense obsession
with his foster sister, Cathy.

I wasn't that bothered by the weather. Even though it was raining cats
and dogs near the house of the Earnshaw's. I'm not exaggerating, it was
literally pouring down, there was an enormous amount of fog and the sun
seemed to be a myth. The rich neighbours a few hours away, however, had
a lovely climate.

I wasn't that bothered by how minimalistic the movie is. On the
contrary I enjoy movies with no soundtrack. There's almost no dialog.
Something, I usually enjoy as well. And there's an overuse of wildlife
metaphors (mostly bugs and feathers).

I wasn't that bothered by the shaky camera either. Even though it
looked like they were imitating one of those reality cop shows.

I wasn't even bothered by the fact that the older Heathcliff and Cathy
looked nothing like their younger selves. And by nothing, I mean
nothing.

What did bother me?

First of all the animal abuse. I understand that after hunting a rabbit
you need to break its neck. I understand to put lamb chops onto a plate
you need to first kill the lamb. I also understand that when there were
too many dogs around one estate some would get killed. But, I honestly
don't have/want to see this. I really don't need a director showing me
close shots of how these animals die.

Then, there's not one likable character in this story. Not one
redeeming quality. I am aware that it's similar in the book. But, one
does not care about the love story or the protagonist. The protagonist
is a poor soul but he also behaves like a jerk, the love story is an
obsession and destroys two human beings. Plus, it ends with some
necrophilia, which btw, isn't an exaggeration either.

All this made me want to climb through the screen and go and punch a
few characters. I don't like it when a film makes me feel nothing but
aggression. Since I remember, vaguely, that the book is just as dark
and depressing, maybe this just isn't my story.
<|_=00=_|>
I wouldn't recommend this film unless you like endless shots of bleak
moorland, mud, circling lapwings and the backs of peoples'heads. Funny
how the poster show the back of young Heathcliffe's head. I don't mind
slow moving films where not much happens, but I didn't feel this
particular film had the artistic merit to carry it off. It could have
done with much more rigorous editing to bring the running time down to
about 90 minutes. 

Having Heathcliffe played by black actors was an interesting idea and
worked well. I also liked it that a large part of the film concentrated
on the early parts of the book -apparently in contrast to other film
versions -especially as the younger actors performed quite well. It was
as a shame that the acting deteriorated so much with the adult cast to
the extent that I could detect no passion or chemistry between
Heathcliffe and Cathy.

I thought the film was overall a dreary waste of time. It seems to have
been liked more by the professional critics than by the real audience -
show people grim raw reality far removed from their comfortable lives
(I am referring to London based critics who only spend weekends in the
country) and they are easily impressed. I got the same impression with
reviews of Winter's Bone -a film I thought equally bad.
<|_=00=_|>
With Wuthering Heights being my favourite book of all time I was a
little sketchy as to how this British independent would be, having seen
previous film versions of the book and been reasonably disappointed.
Andrea Arnold is of course a great director and Mumford & Sons are my
favourite band so I couldn't wait to see this... I wasn't disappointed,
what you need to understand is that the story doesn't focus a great
deal on Heathcliff's life or back story. What it does it it focuses on
the bleak conditions and harsh and realistic conditions in which the
story will have actually taken place. The way it worked was very clever
and you could almost feel the cold country air as you were watching it.
I was happy with the film as it was a different take on a classic
novel, 6 out of ten for me.
