
In the cinema certain historical periods have become associated with a
particular set of ideas. The 1960s represent change, progress and
excitement whereas the 1950s are frequently regarded as a period of
stifling social conformity. Of course, the "swinging sixties" did not
necessarily start to swing on 1st January 1960, and in retrospect the
first few years of the decade seem to have more in common with the
conformist fifties than with the "swinging London" era of the later
sixties. Certainly, many young people during this period regarded
London as a dull, conservative place, and looked eagerly to foreign
cities, especially Paris, as being more exciting and radical. There was
an enthusiasm for everything French- French philosophy, French
literature, French cinema, French fashions, even French jazz and French
cigarettes. This Francophilia doubtless included elements of wishful
thinking- De Gaulle's Fifth Republic was a more conservative place than
many Britons realised- but it was nevertheless an influential
phenomenon. It is a phenomenon explored in Julian Barnes' novel
"Metroland" (later filmed), and also in this film.

The main character is Jenny, a teenage schoolgirl living in the London
suburb of Twickenham in 1961. Jenny is highly intelligent, and is
studying hard with a view to taking the entrance exams to Oxford
University. She is not, however, really sure why she wants to go to
Oxford, except that she is being pushed to do so by her parents who
feel that university is the best place for her to meet a wealthy
husband.

Jenny's life changes when she meets a handsome and charming older man
named David. They quickly become close friends and begin dating. David
is clearly wealthy, and claims to be an art dealer and property
developer. More important to Jenny, however, is his knowledge of
culture. He is well up with all the latest intellectual and artistic
fashions from France and takes her to concerts and jazz clubs. What
really impresses her is that he takes her to Paris. Eventually, David
proposes to Jenny and she accepts and drops out of school without
taking her A-levels, her Oxford ambitions abandoned.

Many parents would be worried about the idea of their sixteen-year-old
daughter being romanced by a thirty-something man, especially if his
influence leads her to neglect her education, but Jenny's parents,
especially her complacent, Philistine father, seem strangely
unconcerned. His argument is that as Jenny has now found a wealthy
suitor there will be no need for her to use Oxford as a dating agency.
His one objection to David as a son-in-law seems to be that he is
Jewish. (Anti-Semitism was unfortunately widespread in British society
at this period). Yet it is obvious to the audience that there is a
darker side to David's character. His business methods are, to say the
least, not beyond reproach (the character may have been based upon the
notorious slum landlord Peter Rachman) and he never takes Jenny to his
home, always meeting her in a luxurious flat belonging to his friend
and business partner Danny. Eventually, even Jenny herself begins to
suspect that David is not all he seems.

The title "An Education" can be understood on two levels. As a
coming-of-age drama it narrates Jenny's metaphorical "education" in the
wider sense of learning lessons about life. Yet it obviously also deals
with her education in the narrower, literal sense of the word. It
raises similar issues to another great British film, "Educating Rita",
namely whether it is formal academic education or informal education to
be gained in the outside world which is the more valuable. Jenny drops
out of school because she believes that she can better acquire
knowledge, both of high culture and of the ways of the world, through
her life with David than through academic study. (Jenny's vision of her
future life envisages her living with David in Paris on the Rive
Gauche, reading Sartre, smoking Gauloises and going to the cinema to
see the latest productions of the Nouvelle Vague). It seems hard to
blame her for this conclusion, given that in the film the main advocate
of the life academic is her headmistress, an intellectual snob and
virulent anti-Semite ("The Jews killed Our Lord!") who serves as a
reminder that an educated mind is not necessarily an open one. It is
only when she becomes disillusioned with David that Jenny starts to
reassess her priorities.

Her performance in the lead role has led to Carey Mulligan being hailed
as the "new Audrey Hepburn", although the main point of resemblance
seems to be that at one point in the film Jenny sports (as many young
women doubtless did in the early sixties) a Hepburn-style hairdo.
Nevertheless, on the basis of this performance Mulligan would appear to
be a highly promising star in the making, perhaps the new Keira
Knightley. Although she is actually 24, she always seems entirely
believable as a naive young teenager. Other good contributions come
from Peter Sarsgaard as the smooth, reptilian David, Alfred Molina as
Jenny's comical, blustering father, Rosamund Pike as Danny's airheaded
mistress Helen and Emma Thompson in an excellent cameo as the obnoxious
headmistress.

Period drama is something the British cinema often does well, and "An
Education" falls within this tradition, even though it has a Danish
director, Lone Scherfig. 2009 has already seen two good British costume
dramas, "The Young Victoria" and "Dorian Gray", but "An Education" is
an even better one. It is not only a study of a girl on the verge of
womanhood, but also an exploration of issues such as social class,
racism and the value of education. One of the best British films of
recent years. I hope that the Academy will remember it when next year's
Oscars are being handed out. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
An Education works little wonders even if it's an imperfect film.
There's much to recommend about it as this season's British indie movie
with something different going for it. It's something about its
character and the circumstances of what happens to her that's
fascinating: sixteen year old Jenny (Carey Mulligan), a smart girl with
a love for Parisian culture and music and movies, is pressured to get
into Oxford, not even so much for the English degree to teach English
(or Latin as case might be) but for the status. Enter in David
(Sarsgard), an older man who rides up to Jenny one rainy day and offers
her a ride home. From then on its a romantic affair between the two,
where he whisks her to wonderful jazz clubs and auctions, and even,
eventually, to Paris. A twist happens late in the film that turns all
of this upside down, but I dare not reveal it here.

What makes it interesting is not so much the teen girl with adult male
aspect (on that side of the coin it's like a British version of
Manhattan only told from the girl's point of view and a less conflicted
man in the situation), but how the relationship is perceived by her
parents and peers and teachers. This isn't some illicit affair to be
kept under wraps, but something that (refreshingly for a movie at
least) is out in the open, and with that comes the awkward stares and
upturned eyebrows, and as well the charm that David exudes on Jenny's
parents. It's as much a film about romance as it is about class, about
how Jenny fits in or could fit in to a society in Britain in 1961, and
how David fits in and how her parents see her fitting in (or, for that
matter, how David fits others in as a property re-seller to the black
community). And of course the aspect of Oxford vs. getting married, the
only options for Jenny at a crucial point.

And now for the rest of the good and... well, not so much bad but just
underwhelming. The good is this newcomer Carey Mulligan. One can't wait
but to see her in other films; she's a natural at playing a great range
of emotions required for this complex character, a girl who thinks and
acts and talks like a woman but yet still sort of a girl at the same
time (see Jenny's trip to Paris for that). Supporting players like
Molina and Williams are also very good, giving their scenes the proper
'umph' needed and gravitas in some key scenes. Sarsgaard fares a little
less well with a good performance but less than convincing accent. The
screenplay by Nick Nornby (for once he's adapting a book!) and it's
written with a natural ear for the way characters at that time might
speak. The direction is clear and concise and just handsome enough to
be competent. The last ten minutes, however, seem rushed on all of the
ends of the storytelling, after such a good momentum has been building
on the crest of Jenny's future.

It's a very good movie where we care about the characters and see some
life lessons learned with (usually) unsentimental results. It's a
tragic-comic crumpet of a movie, dear and serious, amusing but very
telling about human nature. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, well done. The talented Carey Mulligan is definitely someone
to watch as her career develops. She plays her role as mature, smart
and savvy -- almost a bit more than was believable, considering the
circumstances of the character. Her suave and worldly love interest is
well played by Peter Sarsgaard, and the knot in your gut tightens as
the story unfolds and you sense where it's heading. I loved the way
Rosamund Pike played the girlfriend of Sarsgaard's business partner.
Both she and the mother seemed to illustrate the razor's edge walked by
women of the time who had to smile and pretend everything was fine even
when it wasn't. So much of this movie shows women's struggle at many
levels to claim choices for themselves that didn't involve sacrificing
their intelligence, dignity, dreams or humanity. I think the story's
initially smooth momentum becomes a bit choppy in the latter part of
the film, which seemed not quite sure how to wrap up the story to a
conclusion. Despite some shortcomings, the film is still definitely
worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Carey Mulligan does a fine job in the lead role, but Jenny is a
problematic construction, and she's not the only one.

Jenny is 16 going on 17, and is markedly intelligent as well as
quick-witted and self-confident, but she is also naive, particularly
about men. She tentatively enters an affair with a fortyish fellow with
a cool Bristol sports car. That much can be chalked up to naiveté. She
is bothered that he is an unprincipled estate agent and a smooth and
opportunistic liar, but not bothered enough to reject his marriage
proposal. In spite of the fact that his proposal is apparently an
impulsive response to a moment of jealousy, as well as the fact that he
never-- not once-- invites her to his home, or says a single word about
his family, she accepts his ring and drops out of school. That's not
only an example of Jenny being naive; it also reveals how the writer--
the self-aggrandizing memoirist, Lynn Barber-- manipulates her story
beyond plausibility, apparently in order to crucify her father.

Which brings us to Dad, a thankless role played by Alfred Molina using
only two notes in his otherwise full-octave range. As a father, he is
straight out of an essay by an aggrieved teenager. Accorded no
complexity, no depth, not even any consistency, Dad begins as a
dictum-spouting martinet determined to get his only offspring into
Oxford, but then-- in a character change as abrupt as Dr. Jekyll's-- he
completely reverses himself when Mr. Fortyish shows up with his posh
car, lavish gifts, and equally lavish whoppers. Suddenly Dad thinks
it's a jolly grand idea that his 17-year-old daughter quit school and
marry an older man about whom he knows next to nothing. The father is a
callow teenager's vision of an injudicious parent, a character sculpted
by vindictive hindsight, not mature insight. (The mother is better only
for being mostly silent and long-suffering. No insight there either.)

The film tries to seduce the audience, the way Jenny is seduced, with
the fast car, great art and music, posh clothes and champagne. It might
have worked, but only if the characters were believable enough to care
a whit about them.
<|_=00=_|>
An Education

Take a star high school senior shooting for Oxford, and add a charming
man more like thirty who seduces her (and you) with his utterly kind,
gentle, clever, and generous nature. 

You can guess what follows. And in a way, that's the let down of the
whole thing. The idea is a simple one, yet it unfolds so beautifully,
with some extraordinary acting, it is quite engrossing. John Peter
Sarsgaard as David, the seducer, is totally convincing, even though we
know fairly early that something isn't quite what it seems. As events
gradually devolve, so does his character, to a final, deflated ending.
The heroine, Jenny, swept into the mess, is played with predictable
delicacy by Carey Mulligan, and in a surprise she is really a great
supporting role, of sorts, for Sarsgaard, even though she is the star.

Part of the appeal of the movie is the period, early 1960s, as England
is finally getting out of the huge debts and doldrums of World War II
and the swinging 60s are ready to fly (the Beatles are together but not
well known). The old fashioned world, conservative and conventional, of
Jenny and her family is dismal and yet comfortable, adorned with small
worldly decorations. David brings Jenny to modern life, with its jazzy
clubs and trips to Paris, and it's hard not to say his version of life
is far superior. Oxford, after all, is so old-school.

It's a joy on all these levels. It doesn't quite have the naturalness
it always needs, a few are scenes forced, and the plot lacks complexity
(not that complexity is needed, but it needs something to layer it up).
Most off-putting of all is the overly precocious Jenny, whose speeches
to her schoolmistress and her teacher, and to David, sound like
literature, not like a real 17 year old struggling to escape a
sheltered upbringing. It doesn't ring true, and the movie depends on
believability.
<|_=00=_|>
You don't need to know the plot to understand that this movie has all
of the magic of true art-a wonderful story, an actress and director
seemingly out of nowhere, and a cinematic style that is dramatic and
completely engrossing and satisfying. What is amazing is that this film
shows how American cinema has completely lost its touch. In the old
studio days young American actresses, and actresses from around the
world were somehow discovered and developed. When is the last time that
has happened in Hollywood? Our movie machine is run by a bunch of bean
counters that don't know art from bank notes, casting the same tired
names over and over again in endless overblown works of absolute
drivel. Here is a movie with a relatively small budget, relatively
unknown actors, and a plot that seems pedestrian. If you don't see this
film you will probably miss one of the most touching, true and
completely cinematic works of many years. This movie is a miracle.
<|_=00=_|>
Most of us are aware of Lynn Barber as the occasionally controversial
columnist and interviewer in the posh Sunday papers. But whatever she
creates has to compete with her own life story for hair-raising
melodrama. An Education is based on her autobiographical piece and the
screenplay is by none other than Nick Hornby. Right from the opening
credits, the impeccably chosen soundtrack date-stamps each episode in
the rite of passage of only-sixteen Jenny, west London surburban
jailbait. Carey Mulligan in the starring role is probably a little
older than the character she's playing, but that fits well, as she has
to be a sardonic would-be sophisticate in the body of a bright-eyed,
babyfaced schoolgirl. English life in 1962 is perfectly recaptured:
streets empty of parked cars, with demographic changes and slum
landlords in the background. What really brings out how times have
changed is when we see a major collectable work of art selling at
auction for little more than £200, which was an average annual wage at
the time. Alfred Molina as the all too impressionable Dad gave a
performance to die for, although it was Emma Thompson as the
headmistress who got the best line in the whole drama. The tiny
audience at the local preview filled the room with hoots of horrified
laughter. But to begin: young Jenny becomes seduced by a much older
David, the convincingly oily Peter Sarsgaard. Before this, she was
trying to excel in her life by sticking at school to get into Oxford
University. Her parents, living through her as parents often do, are
also seduced by the rascally David as Jenny turns her back on all
thoughts of the academic life. After an unspeakably romantic visit to
Paris she gradually comes to see the other side of the coin. It's as
much a rake's progress as it is a young girl's loss of innocence.
<|_=00=_|>
The young Carey Mulligan is sprightly and charming and does look a bit
like Audrey Hepburn in this period drama about a bright, pretty
16-year-old suburban London schoolgirl who with a show of reserve gives
in to the seduction, cultural and sexual, of David Goldman (Peter
Sarsgaard), a thirty-something man of dubious intent and questionable
livelihood. He's a smiling gangster, really, though the storytelling
shows some skill in revealing the ugliness only in little gradual bits
until bam! Comes the big shocker. Not that, by then, it's much of a
surprise.

David rescues Jenny (Ms. Mulligan) and her cello from a heavy downpour
-- already his sleek purple Bristol car is a strong hint of his subtle
mixture of poshness and sleaze -- and before she can say "I'm a virgin"
he's taking her to classical concerts, auctions of Burne-Jones
paintings, and jazz clubs with free-flowing champagne. With them are
David's cohort and "business partner" Danny (Dominic Cooper) and
Danny's dumb blonde girlfriend Fanny (Rosamund Pike). Danny's sleeker
and more handsome than David and where he lives is packed with handsome
artworks. We don't see where David lives, and when we do, we find out
why.

Helen, who's never read a book, let alone Camus, exists to set off
Jenny's intelligence and would-be sophistication. Jenny listens to
Juliette Greco's smoky chansons, gratuitously spouts French, quotes the
French existentialist, and dreams of Paris -- anything to escape this
dull country (which has not begun to swing yet, since its only 1961).
She's not so good at Latin, but at her girl's school her literature
teacher Miss Stubbs (Olivia Williams) appreciates her and wants
passionately for her to go to "read English" at Oxford, a phrase the
film explains so insistently you'd think academic British were a
completely foreign language too.

What's a bit hard to believe in this otherwise routine tale, based on a
memoir by writer Lynn Barber and turned into an easy-to digest
screenplay by Nick Hornby, is the way Jenny's parents go along with the
idea of David, this mysterious and oily older man, taking their
college-prep daughter off to fancy watering places unchaperoned; he
tells a string of lies to soften them up, some of them unbelievably
crude, like his remark when first introduced to Jenny's mom, "You
didn't tell me you had a sister." This compliance is justified by the
fact that for her mother Marjorie (Cara Seymour) and timid but
bumptuous dad Jack (Alfred Molina), marriage to a man with money, which
David evidently has, wherever it comes from, is as good as going to
university, maybe better. In any case, Jenny doesn't keep any of what's
going on a secret; in fact she boasts of it to her classmates, and the
teachers know too. The only sign that all morals haven't been relaxed
yet is the headmistress (a wasted Emma Thompson), who sees Jenny as
disqualifying herself for Oxford, the school, or respectable life.

Carey Mulligan blooms before our eyes in this movie, and its worth
watching for that. There's a squirmy pleasure in observing her scenes
with Peter Sarsgaard, and David is a good role for him. This is a
character who is always acting so if Sarsgaard never seems natural that
well fits the part. The whole trouble with 'An Education' is that
everybody gets off too easy. David, whose declared Jewishness almost
seems like evil type-casting, is a thoroughly despicable person when we
really get to know him: how come he just gets to slither away? Jenny
never suffers any lasting ill effects of her misbehavior even though
everybody knows about it. Conflicting morals in early Sixties England
are never a hardship for her or well dramatized in Hornby's simplistic
plot. She's never confused, and it all turns out just fine. Good for
her, but it leaves one with a queasy feeling not only because of the
reptilian behavior of the boyfriend but because consequences are simply
ignored, unlike in the much more hardscrabble film about a young girl's
virginity actually made in 1961, Tony Richardson's fine 'A Taste of
Honey' (written by Shelagh Delaney). How can Jenny be a heroine, if she
has no real challenges to face? This doesn't feel like 1961 London,
after all. It's just another modern take on a sassy young woman's
premature liberation.
<|_=00=_|>
'An Education' is a film rife with one implausible character after
another. For starters, when we're introduced to the protagonist, high
school student Jenny, she seems way too sophisticated for a 16 year
old. The main problem is that Carey Mulligan, who plays Jenny, is 24
years old in real life. Why didn't they cast a teenager?

Then there's the problem of the girl's father, Jack. At first he
appears extremely petulant, a caricature of the pushy parent who wants
their child to succeed at any cost. With his insistence that Jenny
study night and day in order to get into Oxford, we're first led to
believe that he's the film's antagonist. But soon when con-artist David
appears on the scene, Jack is suddenly reduced to unprincipled buffoon.
I say buffoon because he's so easily taken in by David's schemethat
David is actually an Oxford alumnus and knows famous Oxford
professor/author C.S Lewis. If this was a real character, wouldn't have
Jack made a few simple inquiries to determine whether David was telling
the truth or not? 

In very simplistic fashion, the implication here is Jenny's sudden
embrace of a life of crime is due to Jack's lack of principles. David
basically buys Jack's acquiescence in allowing Jenny's trips away from
home and ultimately accepting the idea of Jenny and David tying the
knot. Somehow all this so easily rubs off on impressionable Jenny. The
gutless father figure is nothing newjust think of Jim Backus strutting
around in an apron in 'Rebel without a cause'.

Perhaps the moment I found to be the most incredulous was Jenny's
sudden transformation from earnest student to unsavory bad girl. Even
with the father acting the way he did, would she have so suddenly
embraced David once she discovers that he's a con artist? I would think
that a normal teenager would have been very alarmed that she was now in
the company of a bunch of criminals and fear would have entered into
the equation. But what was Jenny's reaction? A mild protest and then
David sweeps her off her feet.

David was disappointing in that he was such a tame sociopath. What are
his crimes? Well, he steals an antique map from a house that's up for
sale and arranges for minorities to move into apartment buildings,
scaring elderly tenants, and then buying the apartments from them when
they decide to leave, at cut-rate prices. Oh yes, he also cheats on his
wife. Equally disappointing is the couple he hangs out withexcept for
one scene where there is a confrontation with Jenny, they really have
little to do.

Every melodrama needs a villain and that is of course the headmistress
of the school Jenny attends. After she finds out David is Jewish, she
blurts out that the Jews "killed our Lord". Not only is she depicted as
a vile anti-Semite but she cruelly rejects Jenny's request to be
reinstated. Only Jenny's kindly teacher is willing to give her
encouragement.

If you think about it, everyone seems to get a 'pass' in this movie
except for the headmistress. Even David, despite his philandering ways,
is not such a bad guy and is not truly held accountable for his
amorality precisely because he is such a charming character (the film's
scenarists imply that he too is a 'victim' of his environment). 

There is nothing subtle about 'An Education'. It's an old-fashioned
morality play where the good guys (educated professionals) triumph over
shiftless petty criminals who hang out at such unsavory venues as dog
tracks and seedy nightclubs. Everything is tied up in a nice ribbon at
the end when both Jenny and her father repent and Jenny is miraculously
accepted into Oxford.

'An Education' is a tawdry little tale that has already garnered a good
share of undeserved accolades. It does boast a nice recreation of early
60s London along with a brooding score but in terms of psychological
insight and depth of character, it totally lacks any kind of aesthetic
credibility.
<|_=00=_|>
This beautifully observed film is anchored by a series of performances
acted with perfect pitch by its stars and supporting cast, led by the
remarkable Carey Mulligan, and a truly extraordinary script by Nick
Hornby. The coming of age plot is, perhaps, a little formulaic but that
really takes second place to a series of wonderfully engaging
characters who surround Ms. Mulligan's 16/17 year-old Jenny as she
falls a little to hard for the appealing (and older) rogue played by
Peter Sarsgaard.

One annoying little piece of trivium. The University of Oxford does not
now and did not in 1962 admit undergraduates. Undergraduates are
admitted by individual colleges at the university. So the letter that
Jenny receives in which we learn whether she was accepted for a place
would have come from a college and not the university as a whole.

And one amusing detail: Rosamund Pike who plays Dominic Cooper's
decidedly non-academic blonde girlfriend actually attended Wadham
College, Oxford! Takes an Oxford alum to play a dumb blonde, I suppose.
