
In this day of cookie-cutter thrillers and Hollywood formula flicks,
writer/director Stephen Milburn Anderson and producer Naveen
Chathappuram bring us a film that shatters genre rules. It's a story
about the power of money and how it manipulates human behavior. In a
movie manufactured by Hollywood group-think, this film would have been
about two innocent victims (Sam and Leslie) who struggle to make their
mortgage payments and one day, during a police chase, a briefcase
bursting with cash lands on their old car, they decide to keep the
money and the bad guy comes looking for it. It would be the naive
couple's story.

But Ca$h isn't that simple. The story starts with Pyke Kubic (Sean
Bean), a Brit flying into Chicago to help out his twin brother, Reese
(Sean Bean), whose cash-laden briefcase collided with law-abiding Sam's
car. So Ca$h is a brother loyalty story. Besides, the brothers make a
business deal: Pyke will recover Reese's cash and they'll split it
50/50.

The line blurs between the traditional antagonist and protagonist,
especially as the story progresses. Pyke's unexpected accommodating
manner and willingness to help Sam and Leslie collect the cash they
stowed and recover the rest they spent, paint him as a likable
character, not an evil antagonist. But Pyke has powers of persuasion,
both intellectual and physical, and Pyke won't stop until he gets what
he wants. So he moves in with Sam and Leslie until every last penny of
the cash is back in the briefcase.

Pyke is a savant with numbers. When he learns from Leslie the exact
tally of cash that was in the briefcase, he keeps a running tab in his
mind of missing cash until every cent is replaced. There is a dark
gleefulness in many of the scenes. Pyke escorts the couple to Leslie's
mum's house, where they've left a large sum of the cash for
safekeeping. They discover that Mum has "borrowed" $600 and Pyke says,
"When it comes to cash, nobody can be trusted." When Pyke takes the
couple to the banker who was foreclosing on their mortgage until Sam
showed up with $7,000 in cash (from the briefcase of destiny), Pyke
negotiates a brilliant deal with the bank to loan the couple $11,000.

Sean Bean's (Lord of the Rings, Flight Plan, Patriot Games, National
Treasure) performance as Pyke is natural and intense. He draws the
audience in with his character's centered calmness, unrelenting focus
on his goal and precarious balance of civility and violence. Bean plays
his character's genius for numbers and deal-making juxtaposed with his
descent into thug-driven brutality, when absolutely necessary, with
fluid complexity.

Chris Hemsworth (Star Trek, A Perfect Getaway) as Sam gives us a
sympathetic, yet humanly flawed character who struggles briefly with
the morally right thing to do. It's easy to accept Hemsworth as Sam. He
looks like a nice guy; he acts like a nice guy until Pyke shoves Sam
into the black hole of criminality. Hemsworth makes the tricky
transition from respectable citizen to ruthless armed robber in a
convincing arc of desperate acts.

Ca$h isn't a thriller in academic film terms. It's not a traditional
action film, either. If the film must have a label, it is neo noir
satire. Noir features a desperate protagonist who is an anti-hero. That
certainly fits Sean Bean's Pyke/Reese characters. As the story
progresses, it also fits Sam and Leslie as they begin to enjoy the
power a gun brings to a moment of confrontation, when they're on the
trigger end of the 9mm.

Writer/director Stephen Milburn Anderson wrote this script in the
Nineties and sat on it until he could make the movie his way. Not
giving in to the hellish Hollywood development machine, Anderson and
his producers bring us a "genre" film gone rogue.

Just because Hollywood doesn't have the right-size box or label for
Ca$h doesn't mean it's not a package worth opening. It's a surprising
present of cinema delight and if you are fatigued with Hollywood
drivel, Ca$h has your name on it.
<|_=00=_|>
There's some modest potential here in the relationships between the
married couple, who accidentally come into some stolen cash, and the
mysterious gunman who comes to retrieve it. A better script might have
exploited all three ways of these relationships -- how they change, how
they twist, how they surprise us as well as the characters themselves.
However, while the script occasionally hints at these possibilities, it
does little to exploit them and the result is a passable time-killer
with most of the limitations of a TV movie. A little tweaking could
have made it funnier or scarier or kinkier or more satiric, or could
have infused it with more action, but instead "Ca$h" takes no chances
and stays in the see-it-and-forget-it mode.

Chris Hemsworth and Victoria Profeta make a blandly attractive couple.
Sean Bean is always watchable but he's not knocking himself out here,
probably because he has so little to worth with. Curiously, even at age
50 or so, he provides more of the movie's "beefcake" than does young
Mr. Hemsworth.
<|_=00=_|>
Obsessive compulsive behavior can be hazardous to your health even if
you're a bad guy like Sean Bean. This is one of the oldest crime story
ever told i.e. the straight guy ends up with the bad guys money and the
bad guy wants it back. This one,however, has a twist: the bad guy is a
number guy who has O.C.D. and will not settle for anything less than
every penny he is owed. In the process he turns the straight guy and
his wife into bad guys like himself. I really liked this movie even
when it slowed down a little in the middle, because it was a trick they
played on the audience. They were setting us up for a big change in the
straight couple's character and a surprise ending. There were little
flaws in the movie like; Bean practicing Yoga and smoking like
chimney,calling the Illinois DMV the Chicago DMV,and a cop-out
repayment plan to some of the victims especially to their jerk of a
banker. But, by and large this is a very good crime movie with an
exceptional ending.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say this is not a bad movie at all, but I think it could be
better. The movie starts with a good premise...a man who is driving
down the highway suddenly finds a suitcase with more than half a millon
dollars inside...what would you do? expend it? return it to the police?
give it to the poor?. Unfortunately for him and his wife, he decided to
expend it, only to find later on that the owner of the money has found
him and wants the money back. Some of the things this man (Sean Bean)
forced them to do are a little far fetched and have no sense at all.
The script is far from being a master piece and the dialogues are flat,
although the acting is really good, especially Sean Bean's performance.
I think the director tried to mix comedy, thriller and action but
failed to deliver any of them. I found the first hour of the movie very
entertaining, but at the end, it got so repetitive that left me with a
bittersweet taste. In conclusion, if you're looking for an entertaining
movie, to watch on a Sunday afternoon, this could be it, but don't
expect to see the best movie of your lives.
<|_=00=_|>
In Chicago, the workers Sam Phelan (Chris Hemsworth) and his wife
Leslie (Victoria Profeta) are facing financial problems to pay their
mortgage after a period of unemployment. While driving his old Buick
below an overpass, Sam sees a wallet falling down on the hood and he
finds that there are more than six hundred thousand dollars inside. Sam
and Leslie quit their job; pay their mortgage; buy a Land Rover; and
refurnish their house. Meanwhile the British criminal Pyke Kubic (Sean
Bean) arrives from London to visit his brother Reeve Kubic (Sean Bean)
that is imprisoned and tells him that he had thrown the stolen money
away to destroy the evidences of the heist but he had seen a Caucasian
in an old car getting the wallet. Pyke chases and finds Sam and
partially retrieves the money, but more than seventy-four thousand
dollars have been spent by the greedy couple and Pyke wants them to
refund the amount in five days.

"Ca$h" is an entertaining movie where everybody is corrupt in the end,
even those that have been robbed and declare a larger amount to benefit
with the insurance. Sean Bean performs a peculiar but very dangerous
criminal with a great knowledge of economics. Chris Hemsworth is the
typical American low middle class with a great alienation and lack of
general culture and the unknown Victoria Profeta is hot and very funny
with her big mouth. The screenplay is enjoyable and the resolution of
the situation is satisfactory. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Ref√©ns do Crime" ("Hostages of the Crime")
<|_=00=_|>
The Pandora's Box theme is a pretty common theme in crime films.
Someone finds a suitcase full of cash (Shallow Grave) or something else
of great value in the most ordinary of places.

In this story a suitcase full of cash literally falls into the main
character's lap. In the most satisfying scene of the movie (a bad sign
if this scene occurs early in the film as it does here), our down on
his luck blue collar hero uses the cash to pay off bad debt, sticking
it up their bank manager's nose in the process. Great scene. The
villain vanquished, the hero returns to his home the victor to share in
the spoils with his equally "beautiful people" wife.

The only trouble is, it belongs to Sean Bean, who comes after the money
with all the vengeance of Ned Stark looking for his missing head. Once
Ned ... whatever his name is in the movie ... finds our lovely but
temporarily rich couple, he shacks up with them and the movie descends
into a weak 21st century version of Fun With Dick and Jane (1977),
minus the witty dialogue and great acting of that crime caper classic,
in that "Ned" demands Jane and Joe Schmuck turn to a life of crime in
order to pay back what little amount they had time to spend.

Bet you didn't see that coming? Well I did. So I'm only giving it a
6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Ca$h stars Sean Bean as Pyke, a criminal whose jailed brother tells him
he had to let go of a ton of money during a car chase. It just happens
that it falls on the roof of the car of Sam (Chris Hemsworth), a poor,
don on his luck guy. Along with his wife, Leslie (Victoria Profeta),
they automatically blow a lot of the money. It is then Pyke asks them
to give them back the money they still have & pay him back the money
they spent. That could be them trading in a car, or even robbing
convenient stores. It's a good premise made into a fun movie, but it
doesn't offer anything besides entertainment. There was already a movie
like this called No Country For Old Men, so there's nothing original,
and it's not really brave, but it's certainly entertaining. Bean,
Profeta, and Hemsworth are all good, although Bean being the great
actor that he is outshines both of the lesser actors. Ca$h does veer
off into some unnecessary places, but it keeps the audience fully
engaged most of the time, and Ca$h provides nice thrills and a decent
social satire. The soundtrack by Jim Bianco is also excellent, and adds
a lot to the film. So overall, I highly recommend this film for a
matin√©e.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that you watch, get some fun out of it and forget when
it's over. And this is meant as a compliment.

We might argue what the purpose of cinema is, but Ca$h has an
entertaining story with premises that are mostly believable. The cast
delivers an overall decent performance. However, with less known actors
it would have been just one of many B-movies.

Sean Bean is excellent and there is no need to elaborate on that. Chris
Hemsworth reveals his limitations as an actor. When you see him in Ca$h
you understand he's been a logical choice for the role of Thor which
came out roughly a year later. Victoria Profeta was my treat in the
movie. With her looks and skills i wonder where she'd been before and
makes me ponder what it takes to make it in Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
Now that we know that everyone is a crook, having seen the movie, it's
interesting that even the wife's mother stole part of the money she was
given for safekeeping Of course, it's a fable, as the money drops out
of the sky......from a van that Sean Bean is driving from a bank heist.
He goes to jail and his twin brother comes along to go out and retrieve
the money....which he does, every penny.

Don't see this movie if you have a pessimistic view toward your fellow
man. The only legal crook they show is the loan officer, which was
hilarious in view of the fact that bankers are now our worst crooks.

Sean Bean is the greatest actor today, as he can be in real stinkers
and still shine. what an expert. Almost as good as inhabiting various
roles as Laurence Olivier, but just the hunk version.

If you don't expect much of this movie, you'll enjoy it. The sheer
racist and bigoted views expressed at the beginning are in a way
hilarious, as they are definitely politically incorrect. But being as
it was in Chicago, they should have had some anti-Catholic humor, if
they're going to put down blacks, Muslims, Indians, loan officers,
mothers-in-law, Asian shop keepers, 'innocent' young wives, and 'big
strong' husbands.

Pretty interesting study in the effects of fear, and the Stockholm
syndrome. The writer here knows his Freud.
<|_=00=_|>
Not all movies are made to be artistic or masterpieces. This is just a
random criminal/drama movie that can be entertaining depending on who's
watching. It definitely has flaws but had a lot of unintentional
weirdly funny scenes. It was an entertaining movie and that's it;
nothing special. Still, the movie was a lot better than 80% of the crap
movies these days that do half ass job trying to imitate classic movies
from the 70' and the 80's.

The characters' dialogue script writing was a little amateurish but oh
well.......

It's a good movie to pass free time!
