
If anywhere there was a braver ending needed, it's here. Kids could
have learned that life is but fleeting, we all suffer heartbreak sooner
or later, say goodbye to the ones we love... This is an important
lesson indeed. But, no. In the interest of a few mums and dads having
to tolerate some waterworks on the way home from the cinema, Burton
decides to go for what is essentially a cop out. Rather cowardly, if
you ask me.

The whole film has the feel of an old B movie (but is set in the
present day) as it is shot entirely in black and white and contains
more than one horror reference. Spookiness pervades the atmosphere, as
Danny Elfman's Gothic score meanders in the background like a funeral
march. Poor Victor loses his dog, and his mourning and subsequent
resurrection of his pet carries real emotion weight.

This doesn't last though, as the plot stretches to Victor's classmates
experimenting on other deceased creatures, turning them into freaks of
nature that invade the town. This is an arresting spectacle, but a
betrayal of what transpired before... turning the movie from a personal
tale about a boy and his half-dead canine, into an OTT monster movie.
It feels like a different film, and not one that matched up to the
poignant first half.

Not for one minute would I suggest I could tell Mr Burton how to do his
job. But I think less action, and more storytelling would have improved
the final reel no end... As well as a more courageous conclusion. Oh
well, everyone's a critic (Most don't enunciate their thoughts as well
as I do, though)... ;) 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Burton is a cartoonist. I don't mean this as a putdown. He is at his
best in short sketches, and his main talents flow from that:
imaginative as a toymaker and has a knack for comedy, both short-term
effects, both a matter of tinkering in the small, but he puts his heart
to it.

I pass on his big 'storybooks' like Big Fish because layered long-term
narrative is another thing altogether. In Burton's case, it is
something he stumbled over as the only financially viable format to
convey his sketches, so he treats narrative as only the canvas instead
of as itself the sculpting matter. 

Some of his other cartoons fail to reach me pure, because they are
still big and polished studio-work and that all but defeats the
intention. This is just the right size, an appendix of sorts to Ed
Wood. It is a sketch, his first ever, this time reworked into a
feature. And naked enough (no Depp, no Hollywood excess) to see the
wirings and so appreciate what he loves about his work.

As you flip through this sketchbook, you will find the following:

The film opens with footage of a young Ed Wood's homemovie shot in his
backyarda giant monster movie, the kind that a kid (who we can presume
is Burton) growing up in the 1950's can be expected to admire.

A teacher who looks like Vincent Price and inspires him to perfect his
'science', in the film it is supposed to be real science, but is
actually viewed in the context of 1930's horror and Shelley before, a
kind of cinematic magic.

This kicks off the Frankenstein story proper with the dog, which
includes additional references to both Bride and Son, Mummy and
Invisible Man, and the fiery windmill conclusion of the Karloff
original. (also reused in Sleepy Hollows)

Eventually, this leads to an actual giant monster movie, where
different classmates, essentially using the same 'science' of cinematic
magic, bring to life different monsters: one is a Godzilla-type
creature (kaiju fans will know it is really Gamera), there are Gremlin-
type critters, and a cat-bat creature that I couldn't pinpoint.

So, there you have it: 1930's Universal horror, 1950's sci-fi, 1980's
pop Hollywood, all of it sketched here that influenced the man's
career.

Typical for Burton: the story goes nowhere, the ending is Disneyfied
like the first time, it is fun in short spurts, and he has nicely
sketched the world of his childhood, which is my favorite bit herea
clean and modernistic 1950's suburbia as was advertised to housewives
of the time, it is amazing some of the textures and light they managed
to capture. Stop-motion trumps cg animation in my mind, physical
presence carries energy into the eyethis looks so real, it feels like
it is taking place down the street from Ed Wood.

Overall, I don't know if releasing this confirms the nagging suspicion
that Burton is over and done with as a creative voice and is really
scrapping for material, but it is nice to watch, and reminds why he was
at one time an interesting guy. What will it take for him to bounce
back?
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Being a huge fan of Tim Burton's
1984 short of the same title, news of a feature length feature was very
exciting. It's obvious from both films that director Tim Burton holds
the story and project close to his heart. The obvious guess is that
young Victor Frankenstein has much in common with the enigmatic
director's childhood experience ... a social misfit who finds joy in
less than popular outlets (science, sci-fi, filmmaking).

The story begins simply enough, Victor - a socially inept boy, whose
only friend is his loyal dog Sparky, quickly connects with the new
science teacher, Mr. Rzykroski (who bears a striking resemblance to the
late, great Vincent Price). Victor's parents try to get him more
engaged and that leads to a tragic accident that kills Sparky. Victor
is heart-broken but his scientific mind leads to a shocking development
thanks to a local lightning storm. Soon enough, Sparky is back! Of
course, the secret gets out and the Science Fair takes on quite a
competitive nature.

Burton really treats the film as an homage to old monster, horror and
sci-fi films. We get tributes to Frankenstein, The Mummy, Dracula
(complete with Christopher Lee), Godzilla, Bride of Frankenstein,
Gremlins, Jurrassic Park and others I certainly missed on first
viewing. But this is so much more. Mr. Rzykroski gives a less than PC
speech to the local townspeople, and though it is straight to the
point, that point is lost on these fine folks. The importance of
science and learning and accepting the differences of others is all
touched upon, but not in a preachy way.

The voice work is stellar thanks to Catherine O'Hara, Martin Short,
Winona Ryder, Charlie Tahan, Martin Landau and Atticus Shaffer (Brick
on "The Middle"). The style and texture of the film is extraordinary.
The shadows and lighting provide an atmosphere that adds just enough
creepiness. The detail involved with the characters and setting is
remarkable for stop-motion animation. Not just that, but how many
movies have you seen recently that include a cat-bat, sea monkeys, and
a giant turtle? The suburban setting is almost identical to the
neighborhood seen in Burton's Edward Scissorhands, just without the
1960's color palette.

This is excellent movie entertainment for adults and children alike.
Unfortunately, the black and white presentation has meant a lack of
interest from today's kids. Sure it has some darkness to it, but the PG
rating means nothing too heavy. This is Tim Burton at his finest ...
and without Johnny Depp or Helena Bonham Carter! Also, Danny Elfman's
score perfectly compliments the story and characters, and stay for the
credits to hear a very odd Karen O song.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton hasn't been making any of his original ideas since 2005. His
recent films are adaptations that most of them are not outstanding nor
creative like his own stories. Tim Burton's returns to his original
roots with this. Frankenweenie is based on a short he made decades ago.
He remade it into a full length animated feature film with sheer
campiness. It's great when it goes there but when it tries to be
emotional, it works in a short while but it is more interested to its
craziness and the storyline doesn't know where to go. The director may
return to his style but he still has his old flaws.

The concept is fascinating. It sounds like it's going to be a
heartwarming family fun film. It obviously tries to capture the old
horror movies with black and white. Most of the characters are based on
iconic horror movie characters. Tim Burton is always highly imaginative
but somehow he's lacking something. In family films, he creates a
charming innovation but he couldn't bring enough depth to it. There are
things that could have been interesting. This is about a kid who brings
his beloved pet back to life. There could have been more genuine
cherishing moments of Victor and resurrected Sparky. There are times
like that but it immediately skims to the comedy. The storyline doesn't
quite know what to do until it hits to the big climax.

The voice performances were good. Martin Landau's is probably the best
among them who gratifies and delights his character with his campy
accent that reminds you of his role in Ed Wood. The stop-motion
animation is simply majestic. The black and white effect makes it a lot
more fascinating. The character and monster designs are magnificent.
It's wonderful enough as a Tim Burton animated film.

Frankenweenie suffers with the same problem of Edward Scissorhands.
Don't get me wrong, Edward Scissorhands is a beautiful film but there
is a little depth to its concept and serves an awkward climax leads to
an underdeveloped romance. At least there's an endearing performance by
Johnny Depp. Frankenweenie is fun but it's kind of empty in the end.
It's not bad, it just could have been better. The darkness of the film
could have been something affecting instead of an impaled cat. The sad
parts seem contrived for the idea's sake. The film messes around the
rest of the runtime. I guess the throwbacks and the filmmaking are the
only merits of the film. Fans of Tim Burton's dark and crazy vision
would enjoy. Since we don't see a lot of stop-motion animation these
days, I guess that what makes this appealing. To think about the story,
still not satisfying.
<|_=00=_|>
Judged as a comedy, Frankenweenie isn't really that great. The humor is
rarely more than mild. But the movie actually did a pretty good job
with the story, which is well paced and has moments of genuine - if
mild - suspense. 

It's also - and this is to be expected from any Tim Burton movie -
really good looking, with stylish black and white animation and a cast
of creepy looking kids.

As someone familiar with the original movies, I appreciate the way it
pays tribute to its source material. It is also wonderfully
imaginative, most notably in the first resuscitation scene.

One criticism; even by the standards of kids cartoons or old horror
movies, this thing makes zero sense. The lack of any sort of logic is,
however, so in-your-face that I accept it as purposeful and thus just
accept that this is a movie that's not supposed to make any sense.
<|_=00=_|>
In New Holland, the boy Victor Frankenstien is a bright but outcast
student without any friend but his dog Sparky. When the newcomer
science teacher Mr. Rzykruski challenges the students to participate in
the science fair, Victor's father forces him to play baseball otherwise
he would not sign the necessary authorization for his son.

During the game, Sparky chases the ball and is hit by a car. Victor
recalls Mr. Rzykruski's class about the effects of electricity and
successfully resuscitates Sparky using lightning. Victor hides Sparky
in the attic but the weird Edgar sees the dog on the garden and
blackmails Victor to learn how to bring the dead to life. Edgar does
not keep the secret and soon Victor's envious schoolmates revive
several creatures to win the science fair contest. When the town is
invaded by the monsters, Victor and Sparky are the last chance to
rescue the girl Elsa van Helsing from the claws of Mr. Whiskers.

"Frankenweenie" is another stop-motion animation by Tim Burton in black
and white with a great tribute to Mary Shelley's Frankenstein with a
happy ending. The story is actually an adorable tale of loyalty and
friendship and it is delightful to see the frolic of Sparky. My vote is
eight.

Title (Brazil): "Frankenweenie"
<|_=00=_|>
With its cute, yet, decidedly creepy-looking characters, and all, I
thought that Frankenweenie was a pretty darn good "Mad Scientist" story
that's sure to be a hit with audiences of all ages.

Containing some very nice touches of warped humor, grotesque horror and
several arousing moments of pathos (cleverly injected into its weird,
but oddly wonderful, little tale), Frankenweenie has proved, once
again, that director Tim Burton still has the master's touch when it
comes to making stop-motion, animated films that seem to emerge from
the very depths of the dark-side.

If nothing else, Frankenweenie certainly turned out to be a
lovingly-charged homage to a variety of classic horror, monster, and
Sci-Fi pictures from those glorious days of yesteryear.

All-in-all, Frankenweenie certainly had its share of flaws, but, just
the same, I certainly hadn't expected to enjoy this film as much as I
did.

Appropriately filmed in b&w, thank goodness that it didn't contain any
musical numbers.
<|_=00=_|>
moviestoenjoy.wordpress.com

After 26 years of the short movie, Tim Burton brings us a movie with
his name written all over it. Creative and original, Frankeweenie
illustrates its writer's original roots.

The concept is fascinating. Most of the characters are based on iconic
horror movie characters, like Frankenstein and Van Helsing. In
addition, the movie is set in black and white, trying to capture the
old look of horror movies. And yes, I don't think this film is suitable
for children, more like teenagers and adults, containing some scenes
that may disturb children.

It's the story of Victor Frankenstein (voiced by Charlie Tahan), who,
after losing his beloved dog Sparky, tries to revive him using
lightning. The experiment is a success, but no one should know about
what happened. Things start to get messed up when Edgar (voiced by
Atticus Shaffer) discovers Sparky.

The animation is great. Tim Burton brings us a stop-motion masterpiece,
paying attention to every detail from the movie's beginning to its end.
The decent overall voice performance does the job just fine, giving us
spooky character, Atticus Shaffer's voice gave me the chills. Tim
Burton's fine job and the voice actors' performance give us the horror
atmosphere necessary for the movie.

Burton is always highly imaginative and creative, but he's somehow
missing something. Don't get me wrong, the movie's great, but something
would've made it better. Frankenweenie will entertain a good percentage
of its watchers, making it a must see 2012 movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand that many, even most, Tim Burton fans liked this movie
very much. Some go as far as claiming that this is his best work, or
that this is a refreshment to his work.

I see nothing special about this movie. This is just an average Tim
Burton piece. Don't get me wrong, I love Tim Burton, but compared to
his other two animated flicks ("The Nightmare Before Christmas" and
"Corpse Bride"), this one can't be called anything better than average.
It has all the classic Tim Burton qualities - the extraordinarily weird
characters (which are just plainly weird, with no extra explanation),
some black humor, dark atmosphere, great music (courtesy of Danny
Elfman) and artistic touch; yet it lacks of that certain something that
makes movies out-stand.

I must additionally comment on the fact that the movie is filmed in
black and white technique - although I understand the reasons behind
this, and generally approve of such ideas, I don't think this was as
essential to this movie; in fact perhaps it would have been better if
it were in color. Although I say this from an utterly subjective
perspective.

All in all, a nice movie to watch, but nothing to enjoy much about. I'd
say this one is for the die-hard Tim Burton fans, if you are not one of
them, you can easily skip this movie, you won't have missed much.
<|_=00=_|>
There was a time when Tim Burton was systematically churning out great,
original, quirky movies that endeared him to the general public and
earned him a large amount of die-hard followers who hung on to every
last idiosyncratic trademark. These followers have had a particularly
hard time these last few years, ever since Tim Burton started to spoil.
True, he was still using all of the unique little devices that made us
love him, but his heart was not in the movies, and they all turned out
commercialized and soulless, the cool "Tim Burton-ambiance" mocking us
by hinting at how good he used to be.

I'm glad to say now that has all changed.

"Frankenweenie" starts by showing the audience the ordinary life of an
extraordinary kid called Victor, a young boy with no friends, but a
burning passion for his specialist subjects (horror movies, film making
and science), a childhood that will surely resonate with both Tim
Burton and the majority of his fans. Then, to the surprise of no-one
who has seen the poster for the movie or heard the title, his beloved
dog dies, and Victor conducts an experiment to bring him back to life,
á la Frankenstein. From that moment, everything gets deliciously out of
hand and grows into a classic "there is an imminent problem at hand
that we need someone to deal with before this all goes down the
toilet"-movie that we all love.

While the movie does not really develop its characters deeply and
sometimes drops certain plot lines we would have liked to see more of,
it makes up for it tenfold with the thing that Tim Burton has more of
than anybody else: imagination. So many moments in this movie are truly
original, clever and, best of all, funny. "Frankenweenie" is a giant
tribute to old horror flicks, set against a sweet story of a kid and
his dog. It will find its way into the great list of "Must see
childhood movies" and will remain there for the ages, much like his
previous hits "The Nightmare Before Christmas" and "Edward
Scissorhands". I'm giving it a very high rating, not just because it is
a great movie, but because it is proof of that Tim Burton still has
great things inside of him, that might well be brought back to life one
dark and stormy night.
