
Just saw this at an advanced screening in Long Beach and I must say the
Jackass crew is back. This movie is exactly what I was expecting it to
be. My friends and I debated whether or not the guys were too old but
apparently they were offered enough money to not care much. This is
just like Jackass Number 2 in that they got a big budget to do the set
piece stunts. There is still the low key, sneak up on people pranks,
but now in glorious slow motion.

The set piece stunts are in bright and crisp 3D that really adds to the
effect of whatever they are trying to do. As others have stated the
intro is pretty cool but I was actually left wanting just a bit more.
Note the paintballs though, in amazing 3D. This is Johnny, Ryan Dunn,
Steve-o, Pontius, and Weeman's show. Dave and Aaron end up getting hurt
as usual but are awesome sports.

There are more gross out and insane, painful stunts than pranks on
unwitting public people, but a few of the funniest skits fall into the
latter category. The midget couple at the bar is the funniest in the
movie by far. 

These guys are as funny as always and their genuine friendship is
really quite nostalgic at the end. Its been nearly 10 years since
Jackass went off the air and these guys are really still at the top of
their game. The entire theater was crying with laughter the entire
film. I was invited to stay after for a post film discussion and one of
the other people summed it up nicely by saying he felt that not a
single skit was a misfire. Matt Hoffman, Jeff Tremaine, and Spike Jonze
were in the crowd.

Of the 25 or so people that stayed after the film, 22 thought it was
the best of the trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>
Jackass 3D has intentionally done something I did not expect it to do.
It purposely tugs at your heart if you have been watching the show
since it's original inception in 2000. Seeing these guys at their age
now and how well their chemistry is evoked on the screen makes you long
for the early 2000's so this crew can always be around.

The purpose to see this film is to be grossed out of your mind right?
Well rest assured you will laugh hard and be extremely grossed out. The
film flows with a great pace just as the predecessors did.

As I said before, if you are a huge fan of the show, like I am, the
closing credits of the film unexpectedly tugs at your emotions. It
really is nostalgic to see this cast at their current age. Though they
are all still in good physical shape, you can't help but wonder how
much longer their bodies can handle the abuse.

Heres to more good times.
<|_=00=_|>
How does one review "Jackass 3D"? The tertiary installment in MTV's
prank and stunt franchise is basically immune to criticism because you
get exactly what you pay for. Love it or hate it, "Jackass 3D"
accomplishes just about everything it sets out to; in effect, Johnny
Knoxville scores a goal on an empty net.

I am the anomaly, but I'd wager next to no one is 'on the fence' about
whether or not they should see this film. They either contributed to
the massive $50 million opening weekend box office cume, or they
immediately dismissed it. In my case, however, having never seen the
"Jackass" films wasn't a conscious snub. Believe it or not, there just
always seemed to be something better to watch.

But mine's not a high horse. I sought out and watched "Jackass" and
"Jackass: Number Two" the week prior to my first theater experience
with the series, and I'm glad I did. After all, I grew up on "America's
Funniest Home Videos" and throughout high school religiously followed
the English hidden camera show "Trigger Happy TV." "Jackass" is not as
clever as the latter, but by measure of unbridled chutzpah, Knoxville
and Co. are the reigning kings.

Like a Victorian freak show or museum of oddities, the often
self-destructive experiments of the "Jackass" crew are the guilty
pleasures of our generation. There's something almost gladiatorial
about watching the elaborate dangers these brave idiots subject
themselves to. Man vs. bull, man vs. mule, man vs. manour fascination
with competition, spectacle, and injury is nothing new.

"Jackass 3D" being my first chance to observe others' response to these
shenanigans, I was most amazed by the two-pronged reaction the audience
had to the physical trauma the performers sustained. A given stunt
would be executed, typically resulting in its participant doubling over
in pain. The crowd laughed, as they'd been cued to. The film would then
play back the moment in slow motion and suddenly everyone would groan
or sharply inhale. Though we paid to laugh at people injuring
themselves, what's more interesting is our ability to empathize with
the depiction of human pain. That the "Jackass" films achieve both is
not an insignificant feat.

This isn't the definitive "Jackass" experience, however. Having watched
all three films in the span of a single week, I did discern a distinct
arc that left me somewhat letdown with Knoxville's most recent effort.
"Jackass: Number Two" improved upon the original with a more polished,
professional look, and more elaborate and inventive stunts. It gave the
genuine impression that the crew was pushing its boundaries and
trumping itself wherever possible. That same sense of pioneering is
largely missing from "Jackass 3D." The glasses- gimmick seems to
supplant genuine innovation in their routine, and on the whole it feels
slapdash in comparison to the conceptual genius of its prequel.

But what survives in "Jackass 3D," and what ultimately endeared me to
the franchise is its creativity. Where it won me over was not in the
painful payoff of each trick, but rather in the setup. The use of the
camera to disorient, spotlight, and surprise is what really makes the
series sing, and the trilogy is full of epiphanic moments of hilarity.
"Jackass" has and always will be a potpourri of comedic elements, not
all of which directly appeal to my specific sensibilities, but the
variety is essential and the whole is somehow more than the sum of its
parts.

I only wish "Jackass 3D" had more of the entrepreneurial spirit that so
distinguished the second film. It may not be ambitious, but hey, a goal
made on an empty net still counts.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1928, Charlie Chaplin wowed audiences by appearing on screen with a
real, live lion for his celebrated film The Circus. A lion! Real! On
screen! Audiences were mesmerized by this fascinating new art of
cinema, an art made all the more engaging for the fact that the
plastics of its image had roots in reality; that somewhere else in
space and time, Chaplin had actually stood next to this lion and the
reality of this image was now available to them for their own viewing
pleasure.

For a contemporary equivalent, I give you Steve-O launched through the
stratosphere in a PortaPotty full of dog poop. In 3D.

Jackass 3D appeals to cinema's time-honored capacity for ontological
testament, and makes an equally compelling case for the camera's
potency as an empathy machine: We see the setup of a stunt, we endure
its execution, and we then either clutch our balls or puke in our
mouths, depending on what the stunt entails. Cinema is reality, and
their pain is ours.

Jackass isn't simply effective in the art of its performers, however,
as there is a genius to the framing and editing of each segment as
well. Many of the film's laughs are built in to its premises, and the
crew smartly eschews over-explanation. We see a tee ball, we see the
path this ball is on track to take, and we see Steve-O's nuts--as an
intelligent and discerning audience, it is left to us to piece together
the narrative before it unfolds, resulting in our increased engagement
and a far greater potential for humor upon realization. And we then
hang in that moment of anticipation, until the situation's potential
energy is quickly and cathartically rendered kinetic.

Jackass 3D is notable as well for its use of stereoscopic 3D
cinematography. In one scene, Johnny Knoxville fires a projectile
toward the screen in slow motion to great effect: shallow depth of
field slowly reveals this item to be a dildo, and 3D reveals the dildo
to be humorously close to your face. Elsewhere, stereoscopy is employed
in the service of some truly excellent model work; the scene's genuine
beauty makes its ultimate subversion all the more effective.

Needless to say, Jackass 3D will not appeal to everyone. But as the
film so effectively marries the ontology of outrageous stupidity to so
many facets of cinematic expression, it's definitely worth seeing if
you think you can stomach it. TK 10/17/10
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, if you don't know about Jackass, you need to be prepared
for a movie with no point at all. Jackass is the third movie
installment based on the popular MTV series with the same name that ran
from 2000 to 2002. The cast includes Johnny Knoxville, Bam Margera,
Chris Pontius, Steve-O, Ryan Dunn, Jason "Wee-Man" Acuña, Preston Lacy,
Dave England, and Ehren McGhehey. Therefore, even though the show was
only on TV for three seasons summing to 25 episodes, the antics did not
end there. In 2002, Jackass: The Movie was released, followed by
Jackass: Number Two in 2006 along with numerous TV shows created by
different cast members including Viva La Bam, Dr. Steve-O, Wildboyz,
and Homewrecker. Four years after their last meeting in their second
film these crazy men are back together in the latest Jackass movie in
3D! The film follows these characters as they beat the living hell out
of each other while performing a series of hilarious, disgusting,
disturbing and dangerous pranks. 

This is the first film that has used 3D in a way that makes the film
worth seeing in 3D. The implementation of 3D adds to the party and
along with another dimension to the film. It allows all of the pranks
to be bigger, better, funnier and more entertaining by immersing the
audience into the world of Jackass. The opening and closing scenes of
the film abuse the use of 3D especially well through slow motion
effects and exceptional cinematography (yes I did just say that). The
stunts in the film are at a whole new level that the TV series or the
previous films have not been able to capture. The stunts are so crazy
and ridiculous in the film that they will leave the entire audience
wondering; How are they all still alive? While no sane human being
would be attempting these stunts in the first place leading to the fact
that all of the actors mentioned earlier and especially Johnny
Knoxville, Bam Margera, Wee-man and Steve-O are all one of a kind
maniacs that prove that they are four of the craziest and most
entertaining men in the world (or are they just stupid?).

There is no plot at all to this film and contains a specific type of
humor that isn't for everyone. There are a lot of sexually oriented
pranks in some shape or form. The film targets a very small audience
that includes males ages 18 to 35 and even in this demographic the
movie isn't for everyone. The film is extremely disgusting to the point
where multiple scenes are unwatchable to the extent of gagging. Nothing
is off limits in the film and therefore there is no limit to how gross
the film gets and no limit on how long the scenes last. The disgusting
aspect of the film ranges from scenes with male nudity to other scenes
with different forms of bodily waste. Jackass has always been this way
and when it comes to male nudity there is significantly less nudity in
this film than in Jackass: Number Two, which was more of a male nudity
fest. Just be prepared for what you are getting yourself into before
seeing this film.

The Jackass TV series and Jackass 3D in general takes an acquired taste
and the right mood to enjoy. I cannot recommend this film because you
already know if you want to see it or not. Therefore, I recommend that
if you want to see it on the big screen in 3D see it now, otherwise,
don't see it if you think its going
<|_=00=_|>
Jackass 3D is the latest from the group and as the title suggests, it's
in 3D. Stunning 3D if I dare say so. No matter how old I get I don't
think I'll ever get tired of watching these brave men launch various
objects at their genitalia and ignite a wide variety of explosives
while standing far too close for comfort.

I'm sure most of you have seen the trailer so I don't have to go into
the stunts and pranks performed in the film, but what I will talk about
is how amazing the film looks. 3D has been reserved for large scale
action films and animated features. Here is essentially a documentary
being shot in 3D, the first of its kind (though Werner Herzog's
upcoming documentary Caves utilizes 3D technology as well).

The compositions on screen are so bizarre yet so simple. They make the
most immature acts a work of art. Rather than finding out the harmful
effects of being stunned by a stun gun or cattle prod, they turn it
into an event whereby several members of the group run through a
hallways with various types of these devices hanging in the air.

These daredevils or "trained professionals," as they disclaim in
opening credits, have gone from punk rebels to cultural icons. Their
outlandish pranks and inconceivable stunts are a testament to our
society's consumption of the obscene and the absurd. We watch these
hooligans abuse themselves for our enjoyment. We laugh at their pain.
The only reason we laugh is because we aren't the ones feeling their
pain.

What really makes this film funny is the groups approach to their work.
I can imagine how many takes of each segment introduction their must
be. The men are either dying from laughter at what is about to unfold,
or they can hardly keep their composure for fear that this next stunt
will be their last. Regardless, we get a sense that what we are seeing
on camera is what these people are really like. They laugh, scream, and
gasp for air like we would, though perhaps with a little more courage.

This carefree approach comes through in the production as well. The
melding of the crew with the cast is like watching a dysfunctional
family's home videos. The cameras capture the action both with the cast
and behind the scenes with the crew. It's a fun, slightly off
atmosphere. To help create this atmosphere, we are fortunate enough to
listen to a great selection of songs, my favorite being Roger Miller's
"You Can't Roller Skate in a Buffalo Herd," played over Johnny
Knoxville being chased after by a herd of buffalo. Oh yeah, he's also
wearing roller skates. How fitting.

I don't think I need to tell you all this, but this film isn't for
everyone. I can think of several scenes which some will find offensive,
others will find revolting, and maybe a few of you will deem as unfit
for human eyes. Still, those who are fans of the show or if you're
looking for something new, look no further. This film is a raunchy,
laugh riot.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it, you know what you're getting into when you walk into a
Jackass movie. You're going to get nutshots, potty humor, vomiting and
"interaction" with other bodily fluids. There is plenty of this in
Jackass 3D. 

What you don't expect to get is forced laughter, fake set-ups and
really, really BAD acting. I get why they laugh at the stunts. It's
marketing. The harder they laugh, the harder you laugh. It's easier to
laugh at something that someone is already laughing at. But the
laughter is just too loud, too forced and goes on WAY too long for the
"severity" of some of the stunts. The vignette with the *fake* -- and I
MEAN FAKE -- gorilla in the idiot parents' hotel room was just beyond
the pale. The "mom" has the worst fake reaction of anybody I've ever
seen in Jackass. She is so unbelievable that she ruins the whole "gag."
And then, supposedly, the "father" had the sh!t scared out of him --
literally. Give me a break. You will find yourself laughing at the
stupidity of their reactions. You might also feel a little insulted
that they think you're so stupid. It's also obvious that some of the
people in the "street" gags are acting. They're just not good enough to
pull it off. People know what natural reactions look like, and this
just ain't it, people. 

There's also a scene where Johnny Knoxville (or Steve-O, I can't tell
which) drives a scooter through a plate glass window. Just
coincidentally, there is gas in the scooter INSIDE the dealership
(never happens; big no-no), the path to the window was completely clear
even though every single inch of the other windows in the dealership
were cluttered with product, AND he goes through the 10-foot
plate-glass window without being cut to shreds. Not even a scratch.
C'mon, people.

Don't get me wrong; there are some big laughs in this movie. Big hits,
big injuries and BIG falls. But I left the movie with a bad taste in my
mouth. Thank GOD my movie wasn't in 3D or that taste could have been
something else.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked the last Jackass movie, because there was an
intelligence at work there, beyond just a desire to be shocking and
gross (though "shocking" and "gross" is being too mild). And this was
just a lot more of the same.

The film is not for the squeamish, especially due to the delight taken
in excrement. Excrement here is treated like confetti on New Years Eve.
I don't want to get into details, because much of my enjoyment of this
film is due to the shock factor. There were a few scenes that I was
just too scared to watch.

I won't get into trying to describe or give a list of what's shown
here. Let me just say that if Thomas Edison had ever thought his
invention would show something like THIS, he'd have destroyed his
camera and killed himself. But for about 80% of this film, I was
howling with laughter, though terribly embarrassed I was carrying on
like that.

The only thing I can say specific to a scene in this movie is that the
Midget Bar Fight has got to be, no doubt about it, the most hilarious
"Candid" scene I've ever watched.

I had major qualms about going to see a film so crude, gross, violent,
and obviously marketed to an audience about 40 years younger. I saw it.
I loved it. I'm so embarrassed. And I saw it in 2-D. Which was at least
one D more than I needed. The idea of watching some of these scenes in
3-D . . .
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, if you are not a Jackass fan, then this film is not for
you. It is full of crude and disgusting stunts, profanity, and shots of
male genitalia. If that's not for you, then you won't like it. I, for
one, happen to be a Jackass fan. Over the years of watching these guys
beat themselves up for money, it almost feels like they became my
friends. So, Jackass 3D was like a reunion. Hanging out with old
friends in 3D. (The 3D definitely sold the film.) It starts off with a
bang and doesn't let up until the very end. I haven't laughed so hard
in a long time, and I didn't want it to end. A worthy installment in
the Jackass series, and the most fun at a film this year. Sheer stupid
fun. So, if you like watching nut-shots and "poo cocktail supreme's,"
then definitely check out Jackass 3D in theaters. See it with friends.
And see it in 3D.
<|_=00=_|>
"Jackass" isn't a movie that you can review by conventional standards. 
Heck, it even isn't a movie in the strictest sense of the word; rather, 
it's a feature-length version of the stunt and prank show that debuted 
originally on MTV and has since found its way onto the big screen. 
Three times I might add, with director Jeff Tremaine and the rest of 
the Jackass cast proclaiming with each movie that it would be their 
last. Tough luck they will have retiring- if you haven't already heard, 
the movie smashed the fall opening weekend record when it debuted in 
the United States. Clearly their steadily growing fanbase keeps 
clamouring for more.

If you, like this reviewer, haven't actually watched any of the 
Jackass-es at work (or play, really) before this movie, then it's 
better you take this example as a litmus test of just how much you'd 
enjoy "Jackass 3D". In one of the stunts proudly named the "Poo 
Cocktail Supreme", Jackass regular Steve-O is strapped in a sitting 
position inside one of those mobile toilets filled with excrement. The 
Porta-Potty is in fact bungee-corded between two cranes and on the 
mark, is set flying upwards where it subsequently bounces up and down. 
I'd rather not describe what happens inside the cubicle- suffice to say 
that it is as hideous as you would imagine, perhaps even much more so.

How much you are willing to stomach such scatological humour and 
revolting gags really determines how much you are going to enjoy this. 
There isn't a plot, there isn't a purpose, there isn't any continuity. 
Basically, this is no more (and no less) than a countless string of 
stunts, pranks and skits featuring leader Johnny Knoxville (who 
introduces himself at the beginning of each segment) and his band of 
merry idiots. You're better off looking for some maturity amongst a 
herd of cows than amongst this group of overgrown mischievous buffoons.

Not to say that there's nothing to admire about their buffoonery. One 
can't help but be impressed by their willingness to sacrifice for their 
art, even if the art is clearly made for the lowest denominator. Who 
would readily put themselves in front of an oncoming ram or a few 
buffalo? Who would readily place his genitalia in harm's way by tying 
it to a flying toy helicopter (the stunt is called Helicockter, I kid 
you not)? And who would dare drink another's sweat collected in a cup 
while exercising on the treadmill wearing plastic wrap? You're not 
likely to find people as ready or game as Knoxville, Margera, Ryan 
Dunn, Steve-O, Wee Man, Preston Lacy, Chris Pontius, Danger Ehren and 
Dave England.

You're also not likely to find the same kind of camaraderie elsewhere. 
Whenever one of their stunts goes awry, or one of them bends over in 
agony, the rest standing around will almost immediately huddle around 
him, offering words of encouragement the way frat-boys would. None of 
them would be here without the other- indeed, there wouldn't be a 
Jackass without the fun and derring-do of each one of them- and it's 
heartening to see the Jackass team displaying a keen sense of 
friendship and solidarity.

As with any circus act, not all the parts are equally interesting- e.g. 
the one where Margera's parents get ambushed by a guy dressed up in a 
gorilla suit when they check into a hotel room, or the rather 
repetitive Evil Knievel-type stunts on jet skis and mini bikes. But 
there is really more than enough to keep appreciative audiences 
thoroughly entertained, e.g. the Lamborghini Tooth Pull, the Beehive 
Tetherball and the Tee Ball, each one of which are self-explanatory by 
their titles.

And what of the extra dimension? Well let's just say that in the same 
way that "Avatar" was made for 3D, the same way that dance movies were 
made for 3D, and the same way that horror movies were made for 3D, 
"Jackass" is one type of entertainment that was made for 3D. Indeed, 
when a prosthetic sex toy flies in slo-mo through several different 
iconic landmarks and finally shatters a glass of milk, the joy of 
seeing it in the additional dimension is enough to convince you that 
"Jackass" was meant for 3D.

