
PARANORMAL ACTIVITY is THE most popular movie of the year and will
ultimately be regarded as one of the best horror movies of all time.
Therefore, PA has warranted a HUGE debate on whether it sucks or not.

Under this pretense, I have divided this review into 3 sections: 1 for
the things in the movie that work, 1 for the things that don't, and 1
for the summation.

******THE GOOD******************************

1. Originality - not a cheap knockoff or a member of Hollywood's
non-stop horror remake/reboot wave. That is a game winner right there!
Comparable to the Blair Witch Project, PA has received a lot of flack
as being a rip off of BWP. Taken into consideration, the film's only
real similarity to BWP is the use of home camera/1st person footage,
and non-professionals inducing reactions from the supernatural world.
That said, you have to answer yourself a question: Would you rather see
another Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake, or a completely original
off-BWP type film?

2. Suspense and Tension - the film does not rely on cheap scares and
loud noises deafening you to induce the desire reaction of fear. Nor
does it have the smallest fraction of gore/sex/exploitation compared to
most of today's horror movies. If you prefer horror movies that usually
don't stick with you and follow you out of the theater, then skip it by
all means. The film gives you a few inches, and leaves your imagination
to finish the mile.

A suggestion on viewing the film: If you want to get the most out of
Paranormal Activity, then DO NOT see it in the local theater on a
Friday night. We all know what happens when you are in a theater with
middle and high school kids during a horror movie. To fully immerse
yourself in the movie, see it with your significant other, by yourself,
or with just a couple of friends at a time when the theater is the
least crowded. Try to see it at night, or at home in the dark. This
film invades the sanctity of one's bedroom, and the old tactic of
pulling the covers over your head doesn't work.

3. Special Effects - even on a small budget, the film provides some
very impacting scenery. Some effects are blatantly obvious, and some of
the best effects are actually the most subtle. 

4. Acting - the movie is well acted considering it is full of unknowns.
The characters are not obnoxious like most horror movie protagonists.
They appear genuine and very convincing in most of the film. But in
some scenes, not so much. More below.

5. Plot - there is a pleasant (oxymoron) surprise with the direction
the film went regarding the source of the phenomena. It's not your
typical ghost or haunted house story. I will not embellish on this as
it will spoil the movie for those who haven't or are deciding to see
the movie.

******THE NOT SO GOOD***********************

1. Writing - this is actually a 50/50 split. The 'supernatural' scenes
are very convincing considering the subject matter, whether scripted or
improvised. However, the dialog and character motivation/action during
the 'down time' is unrealistic at times. This is a large complaint by
those who didn't like the movie. Although the film is a large departure
from teen filled slasher movies, the characters at times seem to be
just as brainless as the teens getting whacked by Jason. There is a lot
of "WHY DIDN'T THEY JUST....?" scenes in the movie.

2. Acting - like the writing, the acting seems to suffer in the 'down
time'. Fortunately, during the important (scary) scenes, the acting is
spot-on, and very convincing. However, you might be taken out of the
movie when the protagonists are interacting with each other during the
in-between scenes, and the authenticity of their relationship is
questionable in some parts.

3. Scenery - granted that the whole movie is filmed in or on the
characters' house, the static viewpoint of the camera gets a little
boring. With all the phenomena going on, it would have been refreshing
to see things from a different angle, especially in the bedroom.
Fortunately, this doesn't hinder the movie, just a minor complaint.

******AS A HORROR FAN***********************

Follow the suggestions above regarding with who, where and how to watch
the movie. Seen under the right circumstances, and with the right state
of mind, the film can be very effective, and having you looking over
your shoulder when you turn out all the lights in the house, and crawl
into bed. For this reason, I fully endorse this movie as a new member
of the horror family. Fresh and original, the movie deserves all of the
attention it is getting.

Let this be a glaring message to Hollywood that originality is still
the craved for in the movie industry. Horror fans have grown tired of
having their favorite classics butchered and pointlessly remade.
Directors and producers do not deserve revenue for just upping the
violence and sexual gratification of old horror movies.

The film's success is also a great indication that as a population,
movie goers respond better to thought provocative subjects than
mindless in-your-face cannon fodder. It relieves me to some degree to
see that tension-fear based horror movies still have the chance to take
the cake. Especially on such a small budget. 

Well Done, producers, directors, and actors. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
That's right! I cant sleep now... because instead of sleeping i am
sitting here pondering what could be going thru peoples minds who
actually commented good on this movie.

Seriously one star is too much. I wish I could vote in the negatives.
In fact I created this account just to write about this movie.

For starters I didn't buy into all the hype... why, because I just
recently heard about this movie. I didn't hear anything good or bad
just that it existed. Well I enjoy "scary" movies so figured Id check
it out.

Nothing at all was scary. I repeat NOTHING at all was scary! I was
bored out of my mind 80% of the film. 19% I was angered at the idiot
boyfriend or the retarded GF. Seriously, Someone here said that they
reacted realistically to the situations. What is wrong with you! The
woman acted as if she just wanted to ignore everything and hoped it
went away... yet claimed it had been happening since she was 8. They
guy on the other hand pretended he had the slightest clue as to what he
was doing. "I GOT A PLAN" as he sprinkles baby powder on the floor...
WTH did he think that was going to do... show him something/someone was
there.. Hadnt that already been established by that point of the
"film"? Where was the plan? He threatens the "ghost/demon" what ever
the heck it was as if hes going to fight it... Really!? The only time
the acting was good is... well never mind because it wasn't ever good.
OK at best during the many arguments that took place in the film.

Oh I forgot to mention the other 1% of the film...well that was the
"scary" parts. First. The Ouija board scene... scary? NO! Interesting
or cool perhaps but far from scary.

Second. Doors slamming... um, perhaps I would've been scared when I was
6 but come on is this really what people find scary about this movie?
Third. The girl getting dragged out of bed... perhaps the most scary
scene in the movie as well as the best done scene. However it still
wasn't really scary... WHY? Because just like every other nite the
camera is sped up and then just before anything happens it goes back to
normal speed... Completely ruining any chance for suspense or fright...
not to mention how it slowly grabs her leg and gently pulls her out of
bed...

Fourth, The powder foot steps... so are we afraid of the easter bunny
as well? That may be scary in a real life situation, however in the
movie it was just lame and boring...

Id enjoyed it more if there were a point to it all.. which I never did
see... there was no real story line. Girl haunted by ghost since shes 8
follows her around.. bf pisses ghost off... both end up dead. THE END!
Majority of the time were watching them sleep... wth is so scary about
that!? Fast forward thru the sleep scene around 3ish each night...
ghost does something "spooky" cut to next morning... "OMG look the door
closed! Granted if this were to happen to me in real life id need a box
of adult diapers however... this is a movie and watching it on film...
just isn't scary in the least. Its boring, drawn out (much like my
post), comical(and not just the scenes that were meant to be) and well
anything BUT scary.

On a positive note... I didn't waste any money on the film =] for that
reason and that reason alone I guess it deserves my 1 star.

I've seriously come to the conclusion that all the positive comments
left about this movie were made by family or friends of the people
involved... I wouldn't be surprised if the director didn't sit down
create 100+ accounts and leave all the comments himself as a publicity
scam.

I think that a crime has been committed here... and I only hope and
pray that no one else has to be victimized by this horrendous film!

oh and to cadillack ... ROFL! your kidding right? To me you sound like
a case of the pot calling the kettle black
<|_=00=_|>
Paranormal CRAPTivity is a great idea. I was so psyched to see it, but
it doesn't play out. The marketing got me and a lot of other butts in
the seats and I say good for the filmmaker, he made this piece of crap,
sat on it for years, was told by everyone it was crap and they couldn't
sell it, then along came Spielberg and finds the marketing angle, Let's
pull a Jackass but show the audience terrified instead of laughing. I
just wish they had a better movie to begin with.

Anyone who has had to canvas a house knows you turn on every light in
every room you pass as you explore the room.

When a noise is heard he has the presence of mind to grab the camera
turn on it's light but not bother to flip on the stair lights on his
way down?

When you exit the couples bedroom there is a room on the left that was
NEVER entered. The door is open, but they just walk past it.

At another point he exits the bedroom and b-lines for the far left room
without turning on any lights?

When he looks in the attic his only light was the camera light, he then
gives her the camera so he can explore the dark attic, HE HAS NO
LIGHT???

Why wouldn't he want to call the Demon dude? Why would she be against
the camera? Their motives are questionable.

If I have a camera on us and I find the misses outside in the cold (AND
she doesn't remember it), I'm checking the footage the following day to
see what time she got up. That's when I see her standing there. I'm
thinking this chick is gonna kill me, and I'm calling her mother or her
sister.

Another thing, they don't have a 9-5 job, why not stay up all night?

Top 10 things to do when things go bump in the night.

10. Grab the camera turn its light on but don't bother to flick a light
switch when you pass it.

09. Give only light source back to girl and find photo in pitch black
attic.

08. Don't examine tape when girl sleep walks. If you do don't worry
that she's standing over you for 3 hours.

07. When you get phenomenal footage of your girl getting drug to
another room, do nothing with the footage and spend another night in
the room.

06. When your girl has a mysterious bruise/bite don't bother taking her
to the ER. You probably don't have insurance anyway, this isn't Canada
after all.

05. Don't bother to get a dog for protection. Despite the cat statue on
the fireplace, you hate animals anyway.

04. Take a big interest in girl's demon, but refuse to call demon guy,
you're too rich to afford that.

03. Find footsteps on floor and get great footage of it, but don't call
media or police.

02. Make sure the 'chosen one' sleeps next to the open door. NEVER
offer to trade spots with her or lock the door.

01. Don't Google anything until act three, research is a waste of time.

00. Keep the hardwood floors clean, because the most interesting thing
about the movie was when I turned to the wife and said, "Those are nice
floors," and she said, "I was thinking the same thing."
<|_=00=_|>
98% of the movie was completely LAME! The plot sucked, the acting
sucked, and the camera movement was exaggerated and made me want to
throw up.

Throughout the entire movie I was hoping and praying that there was
going to be something scarier that would happen. This is the entire
movie summed up for you. 

Something weird happening to the girl..the start recording themselves
to see if they catch footage or weird things happening..they hear a
noise..they go to sleep..the door opens...they go to sleep...something
moves downstairs..they go to sleep..something bangs on the walls..they
go to sleep..something breaths..they go to sleep..finally something a
little bit scary happens..the movie ends...oh ya and at one point a
demon with hooves leaves three footprints on the floor. 

There was a scene that gave the plot a little bit of hope. They hear
noises one night and find out that their attic has been opened. The bf
goes upstairs and find a picture. The picture ends up being a picture
of the gf when she was little and part of the picture is burned off.
oOoOoOoOoo. then the plot going back to the same thing. When that scene
happened i was thinking, "oh o.... looks like it might start getting
interesting". Then all of my hopes were smashed as the plot less plot
continued. 

I felt very angry when the movie ended because I feel it was a sham and
a rip-off. The whole "vote the movie into a theater near you" was a
huge hoax they pulled to hype up the movie. I bet you the director and
creators of this movie were laughing their asses off as people were
blindly walking into the theater and throwing away their hard earned
money. They must be profiting madly because these people must have only
used about 75k for the creation of this movie. 

Also I do not know what is going thru peoples minds that think this was
an incredible movie. I read someones comment that this was just as good
as the exorcist. These people must be paid bloggers because nobody in
their right mind would ever think that about this movie. 

To make matters worse I paid 19 dollars to watch this movie with my gf.
We both agreed that even Drag me to Hell was better (I think Drag Me To
Hell sucks by the way). I gave Drag me to Hell a 3 because it had a few
scary/creepy scenes. 

If its free then go watch it. If somebody is inviting you, then decline
this movie and go watch something else. Trust me you wont regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
Not one part of the movie scared me. Production values are obviously
not there on purpose, and the movie feels cheap the entire way through.
I went in expecting a lot from this movie based on user and critic
reviews and I was very disappointed.

The story is basic and makes little sense when trying to tie back to
another storyline about a girl named "Diane." The entire movie is about
a couple teasing a demon until they tick him off enough to kill and
possess the people inhabiting the house.

Cheaply made movie that looks and feels cheaply made with a corny,
stereotypical storyline thats been done multiple times. The movie left
me with nothing when it was done. Don't waste your cash.
<|_=00=_|>
Not only is this gem-of-an-indie-film, 'Paranormal Activity' the
scariest movie I have ever seen, it is the most horrifying experience I
have ever been a part of. 

'Paranormal' begins when a young man purchases a camera to record the
paranormal phenomena that his live-in girlfriend has been reporting to
have been experiencing. His purchase of the camera is out of naivety,
and we soon find out he is more interested in electronics than the
strange occurrences that seem to be haunting his partner. As the film
progresses, the ghostly happenings become more and more apparent and
intensify while the hand-held camera documents them and the terror of
the young couple. 

The genius, center, heart, and terror of this film lie in the realism
of the performances. The actors who portray the couple are so
convincing and so natural, you feel as if you are watching an actual
homemade video. They do not follow the usual "shaky-cam movie" model of
acting in which the performances often try so hard to be "real" that
they are over-done and come off as a cheap imitation of as what is
assumed would be somebody else's reaction to that scenario.
Contrary-wise, we believe as an audience, that "Paranormal"'s
characters are true to themselves, and the decisions they make and the
things they say are true expressions of how the actors themselves would
feel if they had been placed in the same situation. Thus, instead of
feeling like you are watching actors in a movie portraying someone
else, you feel as if are watching two actual people in an actual
haunting scenario. You recognize that everything they say and do would
be an actual reaction you could imagine yourself giving in response to
that scenario. This produces an extremely uneasy effect in which you
cannot escape out of their terror-filled world because you feel,
yourself, that you are in it. There-in lies the key to this brilliant
film.

The other key is the agonizing, yet wonderful uses of suspense and the
imagination. The director does not assume his audience is a dull,
thoughtless bunch, dependant on gore, sex, and explosions to be
thrilled. Rather, in true Hitchcockian fashion, he fully utilizes the
concept that imagining the "man with the axe" is far more terrifying
than seeing the "man with the axe." We are forced to constantly think
about what we just experienced. In some cases, blink, and you will miss
something. Subliminal shocks are everywhere, so not only are your
conscious senses attacked, your psyche is brutally terrorized. This
makes, in one instance, viewing a completely empty room in dead silence
for 30 seconds or more turn out to be one of the most horrifying scenes
in the entire film. If you think about, just seeing an empty, silent
room does not seem scary at all, but there-in lies the genius of this
film: That something that simple can scare you down to the deepest core
of emotion.

If you've read any of the other reviews for 'Paranormal Activity', you
will notice almost all of them mention that a viewer will not be able
to sleep after watching it. I will make my review one of them. You will
not sleep if you see this movie. Not only is it terrifying, it's
thought-provoking. Then when you think about it, you are terrified all
over again. Don't believe me? Go ahead, watch it. I dare you.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I always writing reviews about movie which totally amazed me and
I don't waste my time writing about some bad movie. But this movie is
exception because I'm must say it's way too popular this days and I had
a feel that I must react somehow. On the cover of movie we can see tag
lines like 'scariest movie of the year or decade'. I think it's a too
funny or some sort of commercial trick.

This movie is only scary for the population under the age of 14 or 16,
or if you never watched horror movie or just a few ones, or maybe
because you're are too sensitive or fearful. The similar movies like
Blair Witch project, Rec, Quarantine etc are hundred times scarier and
better. Even the you-tube videos about paranormal things are way too
scarier than this. 

If you're always hated the stupid paranormal videos from you tube and
was angry about your wasting a couple of minutes of your life, then
this movie will totally irritate and you will have a will to kill
someone. I watched this with no expectation of effects, action, deep
screenplay and other things. All I wanted and expecting was a just a
little creepy atmosphere and dozen of chilling scenes. The most
shocking thing about this movie was a just a huge IMDb rating. Maybe
this sounds funny but it was true.

Movie timing is around an 90 minutes, only 2 minutes at total was
scary, like dragging girl body from the bed or footsteps of the ghost
or what there was.There's some very confusing and unconvincing things
in this movie.

After the ghost attacked and wounded a girl (I forgot her name because
she was such a bad role), male character rejecting for call help. Oh my
god, is he retarded or what? He really thinks that demon or ghost will
just passed away and leave them. Not forget mention that dialogs are
bored and scenes are too repetitive and there's no tension in it. You
just watching when this movie finally finish to see what is whole point
of this video. This is not movie in particular, it's just a long video
stuff. 

I recommend this movie to all people who don't care about waste of
their time. Maybe you will enjoy this but I think you are the same as
the guy in the movie. I didn't like Blair Witch Project either, but now
I fell it's a masterpiece compare to this. Avoid this movie, go and see
the trailer and you see it all there is. Cheers.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all I must say, living in Belgium, I have the benefit of not
being caught up in the hype machine. I'm sure if I were living in the
States, I too would be numb to the affects of this film.

I would imagine being in a crowded cinema would take away from the
intimacy of the scares. I watched this alone on my couch in the
comforts of my own home cinema. I am a huge horror fan, not just a gore
hound, though I do enjoy some good gore f/x from time to time, but most
of all I love a good scare...which is rather hard to come by. Films
that have scared me are, The Changeling, The Innocents, The Ring,
Inside (A L'Interior), The Brood, Blair Witch... I'm not easily scared,
but given the circumstances in which I watched PARANORMAL ACTIVITY I
was quite tense.

This film is a lot like Blair Witch, Cloverfield in the use of the home
camera, but the way in which the characters in PARANORMAL approach
their situation is rather realistic and believable. The characters are
like normal people, not Hollywood types. The acting is fine and the
characters are fun and likable. The only thing I had a problem with (as
far as believability) was the exorcism footage they looked at on the
net.

Maybe I would have been disappointed if I had driven half an hour to
the closest English language cinema to see this film when it comes out
in December. I love going to the cinema for the great image and sound
quality. I wouldn't want to watch AVATAR for the first time at home.
But PARANORMAL ACTIVITY is the film to watch at home with as few people
and distractions as possible. It's not groundbreaking or amazing, but
it works and it's good. I applaud the filmmakers for sending some
chills down my spine. Thanks.

Lower those expectations and enjoy the ride.
<|_=00=_|>
A couple decide to document their nights while they sleep, after they
hear strange noises that they believe to be a haunting.

I respect this film, for the fact that it was shot for less than
20,000, had absolutely no marketing campaign and has become a huge
success based on word of mouth and the audience demanding to see it. If
only other studios would follow suit and listen to people demanding to
see movies they want to see, maybe there wouldn't be so much crap out
there. 

Paranormal Activity is shot like Cloverfield, Blair Witch Project, REC,
Cannibal Holocaust, etc. If any of those films gave you motion
sickness, you might want to skip this one. Half the film is shot while
they sleep, so the film is on a tri-pod, the other half is them walking
around with it. So if you've never been a fan of those films, skip this
one. Second, the film is not as scary as people make it out to be.
Instead, it is one creepy and suspenseful film, that seeing in a
theatre, only heightened my enjoyment of it. 

The audience I went with, all had a collective "Oh My God". I could
hear it every time something creepy happened. You could literally feel
everyone in the theatre holding their breath every time they went to
sleep. Again, if you are the type of person who wants to watch a film
and not hear a peep out of anyone else, skip this film.

Now the film itself, shot in one week, small (very small) budget and
every penny of it went towards the special effects. The special effects
are what sell the film, if you don't buy them, the film will not creep
you out. They looked real and impressive enough to push the film into a
successful goal, which is to scare people. If you are already afraid of
the dark, this film will not help you. Every creek, thump, noise you
hear in your house will now have you thinking twice. 

Less is more, The Blair Witch Project uses this, as does Paranormal
Activity. The two leads, are haunted by a demon, one we never see, only
hear. Whenever you go into a horror film, as a kid you would close your
eyes in fear. Big mistake, because it's the ears you need to be
covering. The sound is what makes you jump, hear nothing, fear nothing.
The sound design behind this film is what is scary people, accompanied
by the visuals (memorable scenes with the powder and bed sheets).

As the film progresses, the haunting gets worse. I don't want to give
anything away, and I urge you to not watch the trailer. I watched the
trailer and was waiting for those things to happen, it took away from
the general fear. Not knowing what to expect will make this film that
much better, that much creepier and that much more entertaining. I
didn't expect it to be as funny as it was either, the lead male had
some comic relief dialogue, the ease the tension. 

The couple are believable, the hand held camera angle works here and
the fear will set in. I applaud Paranormal Activity, for not only
becoming an unheard of success, but for being one of the creepiest
films I've ever seen.

Bravo.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin by praising those who marketed this film. My favorite myth
is the one about how Spielberg (one of the producers) was given a DVD
but couldn't finish watching it in his own home because he was too
scared. 

I GUARANTEE that I wouldn't be surprised if nearly every positive
review on this site is part of the marketing campaign. I further
GUARANTEE that I wouldn't be surprised if the advertisements you have
seen of audiences cowering in fear contain at least some "shills" - -
paid audience members. I further GUARANTEE that you yourself will
almost certainly be bored out of your mind and wonder, during every
single frame: WTF? Now to briefly describe the film: A boring couple
sets up a camera in their boring house and when they look at the
footage of what occurs in their sleep, they hear strange noises, see
their bed cover lift as if someone had farted, see footprints made of
talcum powder on their hardwood floor, see the woman sleep walk and
stand next to the bed for two hours, and see a Ouija board catch fire. 

That's pretty much it. Not only that, my telling of it is more
compelling than what you would have seen in the theater. Now you owe me
11 bucks. 

I saw it in a packed theater at 930 pm -- an ideal audience at an ideal
time. No one jumped. No one shrieked. Hell, at one point I wondered
whether anyone in the theater was even awake. I know I barely was. This
movie will make an EXCELLENT case study for classes in marketing. 

All I ask and pray is this: LORD, if you hear me, if indeed you exist,
please don't let this director ascend through the ranks of Hollywood.
Because if he is given a big budget to make a "real" film, there will
be one more no-talent director flooding our theaters with crap.
