
Most great comedies are based on fundamental truths -- we find a deal
of humour in the illumination of our own human tragedy. Office Space is
funny, for example, because we've all worked that type of job, put up
with that type of boss, and suffered that type of monotonous everyday
boredom.

Todd Phillips' new movie, The Hangover, is as aptly titled as anything
else released this year: it's about a Vegas bachelor party gone
horribly awry, in which the groom inexplicably disappears, no one can
remember a damned thing, and Mike Tyson wants his tiger back.

Yes, we've all had those nights, though perhaps not to such extremes
(that's where the exaggeration of comedy serves us). The Hangover is
funny because it takes this cultural ritual -- an American tradition;
something almost all of us can relate to -- and finds genuine humour in
the pain of its aftermath.

I concede that bachelor party movies are not in short supply; the genre
(if it is, indeed, a genre) should have probably both begun and ended
with the Tom Hanks flick almost three decades ago. But The Hangover
wisely studies the day after rather than the day itself; this is
funnier because the plot works backwards, without tacky flashbacks, and
much of the evening in question is left to our imagination.

While it would be misleading to claim this is a brilliant film (in
either regard  as comedy or character study), it's an assured picture
that finds its footing immediately and achieves a surprising level of
sustenance throughout its running time. And frankly, let's be honest,
this is a breath of fresh air: it's one of the best R-rated comedies of
the decade, and certainly the most uproarious since Superbad was
released two years ago. Most R-rated comedies produced today are
defiant; the R-rating has become a hindrance to film studios'
sensibilities  everything is PG-13, saving the shameless Unrated
schpeel for the DVD cut. The occasional theatrically-released R-rated
comedy, as such, is infrequently modest; the ads stress the rating to
remind us what we've been missing. For every legitimate offer, such as
Forgetting Sarah Marshall, we're treated to movies like College that
attempt to lure us into theaters based on the promise of raunchy
decadence. The problem is that it's all so coldly calculated; these
films are not funny because a majority of the time they are simply lazy
and dishonest.

The simplest reason for The Hangover's success in being genuinely funny
is the fact that it achieves a rare balance of character and vulgarity.
We laugh at the characters' misfortunes because we like them, we
empathize with them, and they are distinctly actualized. Are they
stereotypical? To a certain degree, sure: we have the repressed
pussy-whipped guy who obeys his girlfriend's every command (Ed Helms);
the weird John Belushi-esquire figure who speaks in non sequiturs and
naïve absurdities (Zach Galifianakis); and the womanizer whose
confidence renders him automatic leader of the group (Bradley Cooper).
It's a testament to the strengths of these actors that they make their
characters endearing and believable, even in the face of total lunacy.

Helms has been an underrated highlight of the American Office for the
past several years, never quite earning the praise he deserves. His
character on the show is played with pitch-perfect perversity: he's not
overtly creepy (like the program's other weirdo, Creed), but rather
subtly unnerving. Helms invests a great deal of nuance into what is
ostensibly a throwaway, supporting goofball; this movie, if nothing
else, will justly reveal his talents.

Cooper uses his looks to his advantage: it's funny to watch handsome
people exploit their securities. Cooper essentially turns your typical
Leading Man figure into a bumbling idiot, self-absorbed and clueless.
It's effective, he's got great chemistry with the other guys, and it's
fun to watch such an immoral and ruthless character take center stage
in a mainstream comedy.

Galifianakis, a cult comedian who I've admired for years, has been
struggling quite a while. Not many people other than myself and Sean
Penn saw his 2001 comedy Out Cold, probably because it wasn't all that
great; but he was easily the most amusing aspect of the picture. He
once described himself as being gifted by the opposite of the Midas
touch, with more than a few canceled TV shows to his credit (including
Comedy Central's unheralded Dog Bites Man), but it seems his
persistence has finally paid off: he has discovered, at last, a movie
of strong enough quality to reflect his talents. Galifianakis has a
fair share of the film's funniest dialogue; as far as fat funny guys
go, many of them (such as Chris Farley) made the ill-fated mistake of
playing dumb in a sharp fashion: hurtful quips and silly one-liners,
all self-aware. Galifianakis plays his character straight and the
laughs are subsequently heartier; when he embraces his brother-in-law
while nude, the act seems innocently awkward rather than deliberately
awkward, and that's what makes it so funny. He's described in The
Hangover, by another character, as a child with a beard. Imagine how
funny it is when he names a Caucasian baby Carlos, without any shred of
condescension or knowing humour.

The Hangover is surely destined to become the sleeper comedy hit of
2009, and, more likely, a cult flick in the years to come. It's more
deserving of such acknowledgment than many recent successes, and while
we may live in an era saturated with unnecessary sequels, I actually
left The Hangover hoping to see these guys again. And that's a rare
feeling these days.
<|_=00=_|>
With the exception of one character (more later in this review), I
found this movie filled with male, sophomoric humor. Having said that
most of the females in the audience also enjoyed it; kind of an equal
opportunity movie to offend all sexes equally.

Unlike most trailers that show all the humor in a 60 second clip, this
movie will throw so many funny situations at you so quickly that you
will be giggling non-stop for the first hour.

Then, the introduction of the Mr. Chow part - essential for the plot,
but played WAY over the top by Ken Jeong - became distracting. Up to
that point, Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Justin Bartha, and Zach
Galifianakis carried the movie briskly and with real chemistry. Zach
Galifianakis, in particular, was brilliant. Who is this guy???! The
last 30 minutes were not as good as the first hour and I found the
ending somewhat forced.

HOWEVER, everyone I talked with after the movie will be seeing it
again. This is one movie that is as funny as advertised.

Of course, I will get flamed by those who find this kind of humor too
low brow for their tastes. Hey, just know what you're getting into when
you see this.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the first screening of the movie, and it is very worth the
money you will pay for it. I was skeptical about it at first, thinking
that the previews would have only the funny parts, but they are just
the tip of the iceberg... Everyone hit a home run in this movie. Even
Mike Tyson generated a few laughs for everyone. If you need a pick me
up from a bad day, just watch this and you will definitely feel better
about everything that may be going wrong in your life. I will
DEFINITELY be buying this to watch over and over again once it comes
out on DVD, probably even see it in theaters again. I hope you find
this review helpful because this movie is definitely a must see in my
opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into this movie a little hesitant, and man did I feel like a
complete tool for doubting Todd Phillips once again.

I was hesitant for quite a few reasons. One being that I was a little
unimpressed with the trailer, but trust me, after you see this movie
you will realize that most of the movie couldn't have possibly made it
into the trailer. Another reason was the writers.... their previous
works being The Ghosts of Girlfriend's Pasts and Four Christmases and
Rebound. I don't know what they did between those and this but damn did
they step their game up.

Now, the movie is hilarious. I have become so used to the thought of
the Judd Apatow gang being the only ones to make truly funny films, but
I realized very quickly into this movie that I was dead wrong. I think
this movie was by far ten times funnier than Pineapple Express,
Forgetting Sarah Marshall, Step Brothers, etc. And I find each of those
flicks truly, hilariously, funny.

I remember watching Superbad the first time and thinking that that was
the funniest movie ever made, when it comes to films with legitimate
plots and characters, etc. And maybe Superbad and The Hangover are
pretty close, but who knows....

So PLEASE see this film. The audience I saw it with was laughing
hysterically every five minutes at least. There is enough one-liners to
quote all summer, and enough subtle jokes to laugh about later on that
you didn't catch the first time.

OH and by the way, if you love Old School, you will LOVE the ending.
That's all I can say.
<|_=00=_|>
This is without doubt one of the most overrated comedy of all times,
the jokes are totally bland and boring and the whole concept has been
done over a million times before . The story looked like a bunch of
toilet jokes and elementary grade humor slapped together resulting in a
forgettable comedy that definitely doesn't live up to the hype. One of
the worst moment in that movie was in the casino scene where they won
over $800000 with the help of a black jack book, I mean it looked like
the script writer couldn't find a better way to get the characters out
of that problem and he just went for the easy way with an all time
classic (and cliché) video editing scene just like the karate kid
movies (you know the whole "be a champion in 2 minutes" thing). The
acting in some scenes looked like it came straight from a forgotten
b-grade , straight to VHS movie. I know that a lot of people found that
movie hilarious but I didn't find anything fresh in that movie, it was
the first time that at the end I pulled out my cellphone and started
watching my sms out of boredom.
<|_=00=_|>
Every now and then, there's a movie that has a lot of hype surrounding
it, and everyone seems to talk about it, and without a doubt, "The
Hangover" is one of those movies.

Unfortunately, it doesn't live up to or deserve the hype it's getting.
I found it to be a rather empty "comedy" and I can't understand why so
many people seem to think it's so humorous. Apparently, I wasn't the
only one not to enjoy it, the audience I was a part of barely let out a
snicker during the entire flick.

I think a lot of the attempts at humor were forced, and a lot of the
jokes fell flat. The acting wasn't very impressive either, particularly
that of Zach Galifianakis.

Overall, I'd say to avoid this movie if you don't want to be
disappointed. Is it the worst movie I've ever seen? No. However, there
are far better comedies out there I'd recommend over this for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was terrible, to put it simply. To look at it more
thoroughly read on.

Character: There was almost no character development in the movie, one
character learns any kind of lesson at all, other than that everyone is
the same character at the end of the movie as they were at the
beginning. And while I'm looking at the characters let's do some
summaries, we have the smug asshole, the beyond idiotic weirdo, the
angry nerd, and the uninteresting groom, who also has an uninteresting
bride, who by the way has like four lines in the movie.

Plot: The idea of forgetting what happened in the night time and trying
to put all the pieces together in the morning, yeah it's clever. The
problem is, the movie was so short, every problem they encountered had
to either resolve it's self, or they solved it so quickly it wasn't
really even a problem to begin with. Mike Tyson comes and claims the
tiger, then they drive it back, fascinating, really I'm enthralled.
They see the hospital bracelet and the Las Vegas doctor remembers
everything that four drunk guys said earlier that night, not only that
he leads them to there next clue right away. Maybe the doctor could
have magically just told them where there friend was. And those aren't
even the worst parts.

Dialogue: I hardly feel like touching this but let's go. The nerd, all
he does is get abused, and then start yelling, then people laugh. Ha ha
ha, nerds yelling, ha ha ha. The weird dumb guy, insert non sequitur
here, that's pretty much every line in the movie. The Pretty boy who's
a dick, well he's just mean and for no real reason, and as for the
uninteresting groom, well he only has like four lines, and they aren't
very good.

In conclusion, I wish I could rate this movie zero, who ever programs
this website might want to get started on that.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel burned for going to watch this super stupid movie. I am baffled
that so many other people in IMDb thought it was funny and that it has
good reviews. There were about 30 people in the theater when I watched
it of a pretty good demographic spread and there were nearly NO LAUGHS
through out the whole movie. At best a few people chuckled a few times.
Some of the attempts at comedy are so, so old. OK, here are a couple
little spoilers. In one scene one of the guys is face down on the
ground about to get up & another one of guys opens up the car door and
opens it bumping the guy laying down on the ground in the head- so, so
stupid! This scene was funny in cartoons when I was under 10! Another
spoiler coming- in a different scene one of the guys finds a used
condom in there car and they start grossing out and tossing it around-
so stupid and not funny anymore since I was 17. I can only understand
the high reviews on IMDb that there are so many more potheads these
days. If you are a pothead under 25 is the only demographic I can
understand that can laugh from this.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe this movie gets such high ratings. I just wasted 1.5
hours of my life. I decided to see it because everyone was so high
about it... I had such high expectations as a result, of course. Oh
man, there is nothing more in the whole movie than in the trailers. And
to me the trailer was no fun, either... So you can tell if you are with
me at this point.

It started really slow and I was waiting for something to happen.. nope
nothing... At some point I expected a twist. nope... The tiger, the
baby, the tooth, the bed, everything is just so forced. It was like
when Conan o'Brien creates absurd situations and take a shot of that
moment in his show. Conan's creations are waaaay funny though... I have
to apologize from Conan for comparing this movie to his absurd shots
since he does them for what they are. But these guys in hangover is
trying to sell a real funny story, but I don't buy it. not a bit,
sorry.

All those screams, cursing, unnecessary naked people and stupidness got
me stressed! I didn't enjoy it, but go ahead and watch. I may be the
only person who is telling you that it's not good. just... whatever...
<|_=00=_|>
I have to start by saying that my friends and I have been talking about
this movie and watching the trailers for weeks, so our expectations
were really high.

With that being said, this movie didn't just live up to the
expectations, it was one of the funniest movie I have seen in a long
time. Bradley Cooper, Zach Galifianakis, and Ed Helms are all very
good. Galifianakis steals the show at times. It is hilarious from the
beginning. Mike Tyson brings a few laughs and Mr. Chow (Ken Jeong) is a
great twist. Do yourself a favor and go see this movie, it is worth
every penny. Just got out of the midnight showing and I'm going back
tomorrow night.
