
I figured this would be an entertaining remake if nothing else, I was
wrong. Dead wrong. There was a much richer mysterious element to the
original film and to my surprise, much more creative. I thought the
kills and nightmare sequences would be vastly improved upon, but alas,
gigabytes, greenscreens and CGI cannot compete with hands-on
creativity.

The biggest question is of course whether a new Freddy is/was a good
idea and I tried to give Jackie a chance; ultimately you can
interchange actors playing Jason, Leatherface and Michael, they are
suits and masks but you can't replace a personality. Known
personalities such as Pinhead and Freddy Krueger ARE Robert Englund and
Doug Bradley with prosthetics. Robert Englund brought us a believably
creepy and demented sadistic killer where Jackie looked and acted like
a pedophile. There were a handful of lines I enjoyed such as the 'body
dying but brain living on' speech, but the rest seemed like
plagiarized, recycled and poorly delivered lines selectively stolen
from all the Nightmare films. (ex. Robert's "Your eyes say no, no, but
your body says yes, yes." From Freddy vs. Jason)

I don't understand why everything needs to be explained in full now. I
hate that. I didn't need to know what the force was, Michael Myers mom
was a stripper? Oh, okay, his killing is justified. I don't care that
Jason Voorhees played hockey and was prolific in archery and I don't
care that Leatherface has no nose. Some things are more frightening if
you don't know why or aren't given a chronological map of where
everything went wrong. Where was the creepy nightmare goat in this
film? Did they have to cut the sequence showing a young Fred Krueger as
a goat-herder on his family farm? In the 1984 film, what Freddy did
with kids was implied but never told in full. That gives the viewer the
right to view him in any matter, even as an anti-hero. The new film
stamps it on your forehead that he was doing unsavory things to
children which more or less made me sick and made the character less
likable. (I always did find it funny that Freddy had such a cult
following and appeal with kids as a child killer, but it worked. Here
it does not.) 

The CGI becomes a distraction here; it's when things look too perfect
that they lose believability such as Freddy bending the wall above
Nancy. The original was creepier and it was produced in camera. The
kills were boring. "I fall asleep, Freddy shows up, Freddy says
something, I'm stabbed, I'm dead." Remember Rod (1984) being slowly
strangled by bed sheets? That was scary, creative and left people
thinking that perhaps Nancy was imagining Krueger and that Rod had hung
himself. The new 'Nancy in the bathtub' scene was a boring cop-out and
seemed more or less to be suggesting that it could be frightening. Even
Tina's death being dragged across the ceiling was more vicious and
sadistic in the original. EVERY 'scare' in this film is the cliché loud
music and somebody jumping into frame.

I couldn't care less about the kids in this film, they are bratty and
almost apathetic/nihilistic to the idea that they were being stalked in
their sleep. Forget about brewing coffee in your closet, these kids are
popping pills and using needles to stay awake this go around. I didn't
buy that they were sleep deprived as the actors had shaggy or ratty
hair and clothes, baggy eyes and looked strung out on heroin since the
beginning of the film. The unnecessary 30 second video blog cameo by
the likable Asian stoner from the Friday the 13th remake was the only
time anyone seemed like they wanted to live.

The simplified story, CG, and casting aren't the only problems, the
screenplay seems to be jumbled as certain characters have been blended
and displaced. The 'Tina' character or 'Kris' in this film seems to
take on most of Nancy's research early on in the film imposing the
belief that she was the lead actress. I'm not sure if that was the goal
of the screenwriter, but it wasn't a very clever or effective trick if
that was the intent. The altogether renaming of the characters and
traits begs the question of why even do it in the first place? Why not
just make a new sequel with a great script and high production value?

This film, to me, was more like a terrible modern high school
cliff-notes adaptation than a remake. It brought nothing new to the
table and improved on nothing. As a film it was outperformed on every
level by it's 26 year old predecessor. I truly hope this dies terribly
at the box-office and that talk of a sequel gets slashed from the
mouths of New Line and producers of this sacrilege. Shame on everyone
involved in this crap. Even the worst sequel to the original series has
more entertainment value.

I am not a purest, I was looking forward to this and I have enjoyed
most of the remakes to a certain degree.

Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
Picture the 1984 horror classic A Nightmare on Elm Street. Now picture
that film if it was produced by bombastic Michael Bay, director of
Pearl Harbor and the Transformers films. Now picture all of the worst
possible outcomes of that marriage.

You don't have to. You could just plunk down your hard-earned cash 
better yet, don't  for this lame remake.

Not that I can stop you from seeing it. No number of bad reviews (and
this will be just one of many) would have kept me away. Curiosity alone
demanded I see the new Elm Street, so when a critic buddy asked if I'd
like to tag along to a screening, I did.

I mean, it couldn't be awful, right? It's a darker take on a character
that had fallen into parody. Its screenplay was co-written by Wesley
Strick, who has worked with Martin Scorsese (1991's Cape Fear). And
supernatural killer Freddy Krueger is played by Jackie Earle Haley, an
Oscar-nominated actor who was so creepy as Rorschach in Watchmen. How
bad could it be?

Really bad, it turns out. Astonishingly, amazingly, how-could-you-
possibly-screw-this-up-any-worse bad.

Samuel Bayer, a longtime music video director making his feature-film
debut, accomplished his stated goal of draining away all the cheeky fun
of the Freddy films. Unfortunately, he also drained away all the
scares. What's left is a dreary, poorly-lit slog with uninteresting
characters, wooden acting and a complete lack of tension, suspense or
energy.

We could spend all day talking about the problems, but two big ones
sink this new Nightmare all on their own.

The first is the new Freddy  he's not scary at all. (Robert Englund's
original Freddy at least was creepy for a couple of films before
falling into camp.) Haley's tiny frame makes Freddy look puny and his
voice sounds like an even-more-ridiculous take on the raspy Christian
Bale "Batman" voice.

Haley's not helped by the terrible new Freddy makeup, which presumably
is supposed to look like a more "realistic" burn victim, but it robs
him of any expression. Freddy's not scary; worse, he's not even
interesting.

You'd expect the new Nightmare to provide some creative new "kills,"
but that's the second huge problem. There are only a handful of kills
throughout, and the better ones are taken directly from the 1984
original. In fact, fans of the original will note several virtually-
identical scenes, all of them done on a higher budget but without a
whit of artistry.

Special note has to be made of the acting, which (with a couple of
exceptions) is dreadful. I'll blame Bayer, because a few of these folks
have been decent in other things, but they're laughable here. (I'm
pretty sure Thomas Dekker was attempting to portray Casey Affleck if
Casey Affleck had suddenly completely forgotten how to act. And he's
one of the better ones.)

Of all the leads, only Kyle Gallner manages to bring some desperately-
needed personality and humor to the proceedings. Gallner
single-handedly makes the final act interesting, since you'll have
wanted every other character dead from the opening minutes.

But he can't overcome Bayer's clueless direction, which telegraphs
every shock and dream sequence from a mile away. One of the most
effective elements of an Elm Street film is the subtle slide back and
forth from the real world to the dream world. Bayer doesn't get this at
all. Every dream sequence is clearly defined, completely destroying any
suspense.

The film spends two-thirds of its running time having its leads uncover
Freddy's "story," which is ridiculous because it's a story everyone
already knows. It momentarily plays with a slight twist on the original
plot  a second of creativity, emerging like a flower through a crack
in the sidewalk  then immediately chucks it.

Don't get me wrong: I love horror films. I don't even ask too much of
them. I only ask that they be either A) scary or B) fun. If they can be
both, that's awesome.

But with none of A and far too little of B, the new Elm Street barely
rises above an F.
<|_=00=_|>
The first scene was my favorite part. Through the remainder of the
movie Freddy's voice became more of an annoyance and distraction than a
cause for fear (very similar to Christian Bale's Batman). I entered the
movie expecting to get whisked away to the wonderful dream-world of
Freddy Krueger but was instead pulled into a high school slasher film
promoting a typical killer with a grudge and thirst for blood. The fact
the victim was trapped inside a dream battling with Freddy wasn't quite
enough to satisfy the sense of a nightmarish killer's dream world. The
movie lacked the demented mental toyings a character like Freddy should
possess (e.g. Pennywise). At the premier, the entire theater let out a
"Boo" at the end of the movie. I recommend watching the original Freddy
movies instead.
<|_=00=_|>
When I left the theater last night, I couldn't help but ask myself one
simple question: Why? Why did they remake this movie? Especially if
they have nothing new to bring to the table, in terms of story or
character development? Even the worst Hollywood Horror Remakes (House
of Wax, The Hills Have Eyes, etc.) Have SOME SORT of interesting twist
to include, but this movie had none. It's as though Michael Bay was
watching the original and thought to himself "Man, I wish I had thought
of this." Then, instead of using his inspiration to go make something
fresh and original, he just hijacked the classic franchise and then
dulled it down to its most basic and crappy form. And now, when I refer
to A Nightmare on Elm Street, I have to specify whether I mean A
Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) or A Nightmare on Elm Street (2010) even
though they're essentially the same thing. Now I have another question:
When is the next "genius" in Hollywood going to "reimagine" 2001: A
Space Odyssey? Or Pulp Fiction? And for that matter, when is Nickeback
going to come out with their own version of Abbey Road?

A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) is a charming, entertaining and
occasionally-terrifying romp. It is the Crown Jewel of a Golden Age of
creative and energetic horror films. A Nightmare on Elm Street (2010)
is a bastardized Hollywood rehash with no soul. It was completely
pointless, even by Horror-Remake standards. Hollywood ran out of
Japanese horror films to remake, and decent comic books to adapt, so
now they've victimized another American Classic. There's one
interesting sight gag, and they blow that load five minutes into scene
one. The horror is not psychological, or even tangible. It is just a
bunch of spooky, ominous whispering for minutes at a time, followed by
the obligatory jump-scene, where the bad guy jumps out of nowhere,
makes a startling hissing sound and the victim screams. The audience
jumps, a bit, and then let's out a little giggle. But they're never
actually scared. Cheap and Lame.

Before the film started, they showed a preview for Robert Rodriguez'
upcoming film "Predators" When the title flashed across the screen, I
couldn't control myself. I shouted "Boo!" A few people in the theater
laughed. I hope they were laughing because they feel the way I feel: I
am sick of remakes, and prequels and sequels. I am sick of Hollywood
executives making hundreds of millions or dollars, without ever
actually coming up with any ideas of their own.
<|_=00=_|>
With remakes being inevitable, I'd prefer that they be based on flawed
originals. The new Clash of the Titans, in concept tried to do this.
This is my stance on remakes. The trouble is that Hollywood green
lights remakes of popular, good, movies because of their justifiable
built-in fan bases. The 1984 A Nightmare on Elm Street was a
refreshing, novel, approach to the slasher subgenre film. I can
understand why Platinum Dunes would have was well-known music video
director Samuel Bayer helm its remake.

A Nightmare on Elm Street focuses on a group of teens that share
haunting nightmares. When they go to sleep, they have demented dreams
of a maniacal burn victim named Freddy Krueger (Jackie Earle Haley).
Freddy chases the kids through his world and if he can get his
knife-tipped glove on them, they die in the real world. The remaining
teenagers are then tasked with insomnia as they search for the reason
why Freddy wants them dead.

I'll start with the positives. From an acting and casting standpoint
Jackie Earle Haley is the guy you want in this role. He has a haunting
voice that he modulates with perfection, coming up with his own unique
take on the notorious Mr. Krueger. When combining his talents with the
usual high production values (for horror films) provided by Platinum
Dunes, you get a workable formula. Unlike the other films, but like
Platinum Dune's other remakes, there is an attempt at a Freddy Krueger
origin story. It just so happens I like the way this part of the movie
is told and having the cursed teens see it in their dreams is
interesting.

With these elements working in the film's favor, there are many
conflicts elsewhere. Notable among these are redundant dream sequences.
The settings sometimes change but they almost all play the same way:
teenagers walk through eerie environments followed by a Freddy attack.
For a screenwriter to be so lacking in imagination is mind-boggling.
Freddy's costume is easily recognizable, but the new burn victim look
of his face is unappealing. Chances are a real life Freddy would look
more like this than he did in the '80s, but The English Patient is not
a frightening countenance.

What mars the first half of the film is an insistence on not developing
characters. We assume these are high school kids, who mysteriously are
devoid of personalities, and then they die. I understand the concept of
an ensemble cast, but when main players take such a backseat that when
they finally move to the front of the minivan we don't know them.

Despite a rocky start things do turn around, but our unfortunately
thickheaded protagonists are slow to put things together. They should
be going on about a week of sleep deprivation, but the new Nancy
(Rooney Mara) seems only mildly annoyed. When Heather Langenkamp played
Nancy, she was just as active but with more lines we had a better
understanding of her frustration.

The biggest problem of all is that the 2010 A Nightmare on Elm Street
is not scary. Scare tactics all center on sound effects and it gets old
fast. Every time Freddy appears there is a scream of some kind that
pierces the ears of the audience. No one is jumping at fright; maybe
some will jump at the surprise. This is silly, outdated, and
uncreative.

After Remake on Elm Street, Platinum Dunes is seemingly out of horror
franchise fodder. Almost all of their remakes have been critically
lambasted, but most of them managed to be profitable. I wouldn't jump
to the conclusion that they plan to shell out as many sequels as the
original franchises generated, but I'd prefer that action since it
would keep them busy and off of more esteemed films.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start out by saying that I first saw A Nightmare on Elm Street
when I was 6. Ever since, I've loved every sequel (well, maybe except
the 2nd). A Nightmare on Elm Street is my favorite film of all time.
That's not an exaggeration. It was not a perfect film, but it was
suspenseful and gory.

The remake of A Nightmare on Elm Street was terrible.

You're hearing it from a hardcore fan. I was not someone against
Platinum Dunes making the remake. I was fine with letting Robert
Englund go. I was just excited to see Freddy once again on the big
screen. I wish I hadn't. This was worse than the Halloween remake.
Worse than the Texas Chainsaw remake. Worse than the AMITYVILLE HORROR
remake. Stay far, far away.

You know you have problems when Freddy is revealed five minutes into
the film. Not in a silhouette, but in full make-up. Right away we know
the writers aren't looking to create suspense. That's what made the
first one work, so why in the hell would we keep it here? It's never a
mystery as to who or what Freddy is. Granted, with all his popularity,
it might seem pointless to keep him hidden, but it would've made his
character a hell of a lot scarier.

The acting is on par with the Twilight series. It's a one-note job for
everyone available, even for Freddy. Robert Englund made it work
because of his unpredictability. Jackie Earle Haley, a very good actor,
is clearly given a poor script to work with. His one-liners aren't
scary. They're not funny. They're just terrible. Haley had just as much
to say as Freddy in his funny-days, but the difference here is how
contrived his dialogue is. I watched "Freddy's Dead" right before the
premiere to lower my bar for this film, and I found myself wanting to
watch that one all over again. THAT SHOULD NOT HAPPEN.

The original didn't have the best actors by a long shot (not even
Johnny Depp), but they felt real enough to root for them. Here, Rooney
Mara and her good-looking cast create no sympathy. They just don't feel
like real people.

The whole mystery IS FREDDY A GOOD GUY plot? Terrible (word of the
day). I don't want to spoil anything but...come on...this is Freddy
Krueger we're talking about. He was scary because we didn't know much
about him. As soon as you throw in a back story, he's just any other
killer. Remember when Freddy wasn't just any other killer? Good
days...good days...

Oh, and SPOILER ALERT....there's only 4 deaths. But, unlike the
original, they're poorly placed throughout the story. You shouldn't
have to sit through 40 minutes of a phony, pointless mystery in order
to NOT see anyone get killed. And the deaths themselves are
unimaginative, perhaps the most boring of all the 7 films. Thanks for
playing it safe, Platnium Dunes, that should rake in a few more target
audience members.

The original Elm Street is beginning to show its age. Still, nearly 30
years later, the original is still more terrifying than this
play-it-safe-and-by-the-numbers reboot. I'm appalled by the wasted
talent of Haley. This new series won't draw in any new fans like the
studio hoped. This new series doesn't cater to the original fans. This
new series is...well, just like every other reboot in recent memory; it
was created out of greed, not entertainment. As a lifetime Freddy fan,
I find myself sad to say that this franchise is dead.

And my coupon for a free ticket I got in the blu-ray edition of ANOES
isn't eligible at AMC theaters. I hate you, Platinum Dunes.
<|_=00=_|>
When it was announced that Jackie Earle Haley would be taking on the
role of Freddy in the new Elm Street franchise reboot, a collective
sigh of relief went up from the fans of the originals. Haley's Rorshach
was one of the few redeeming qualities in the abysmal "Watchmen" movie.
When pictures of Freddy's new face were leaked, the excitement grew.
This Freddy promised to drop the silly one liners and be a return to
the frightening, sadistic killer from the first film.

Haley does what he can with what he's given, but even a game
performance from him and Rooney Mara(Nancy) can't save this film from
mediocrity. The male lead is played by Kyle Gallner. He could
generously be called a poor man's Robert Pattinson. He does a
serviceable job here but the weak writing and directing don't do him
any favours.

Fans of the original will be disappointed by the brief treatment of
Freddy's origins, and it's unlikely new viewers will understand what is
going on or even care for that matter. My hopes of a scarier Freddy
were dashed within the first few minutes. The film doesn't even try to
build an atmosphere and Haley spouts the same tired one liners that the
later films leaned on so heavily.

Even as the original series aged, one could always rely on the
excellent special effects and make-up work to carry the films. The
highlight of each film was the creativity of the different "Dream
Worlds" that Freddy would take his victims to. Each dream world was
unique because it reflected the thoughts of the character Freddy was
trying to kill. This new iteration strips away any of that creativity
and takes place almost entirely in one location (I'll avoid spoilers,
but if you've seen any other film in the series you can easily guess
where). The makeup work that looked promising in production stills
doesn't hold up well on screen, failing to be as frightening or iconic
as the original. The effects aren't great, it would be easy to beat the
dead horse of 'computer graphics' being inferior but I think the real
problem here is directorial. Samuel Bayer simply can't hold a candle to
Wes Craven.

If you want to disregard my comparisons to the original films and
simply take this one for what it is, a brainless slasher flick, it
still fails. None of the 'kills' show any creativity at all and
audiences already fed on a steady diet of graphic violence won't find
anything all that shocking or disturbing here. It's just boring. 

Adding to that is an over reliance on cheap scares. This film is this
the cinematic equivalent of someone shouting "boo!" in your face every
ten minutes. This technique becomes annoying almost instantly and
becomes increasingly more annoying because it is used in every single
scene. It's like the director realized he didn't know how to direct a
scary movie and instead of quitting and finding a new job, he decided
to edit in sudden loud noises and hope no one would notice.

By the end the audience I saw it with could hardly hold back their
titters of laughter and I don't mean that in a good way. This is one
franchise that had some potential for rebirth, but I will be amazed if
this one makes it to part 2.
<|_=00=_|>
Once Again Platnum Dunes have Raped another Classic Film in the name of
the almighty dollar. All i can say is that they should be apologizing
to the fans for this unbelievable piece of crap.Freddy looked Retarded
and even worse his voice was so annoying i wanted to yell shut the hell
up at the screen every time he started to talk..This movie couldn't
figure out what it wanted to be in places it completely Copies scenes
from the original and at other times it goes off somewhere else
entirely. Compared to the Original Cast i didn't give a damn if
everyone died or not because none of these Wb types were anywhere near
sympathetic or even halfway developed right.The Cgi gore effects in
places were downright shoddy and the ending was completely predictable
well the whole movie was really.The only people that could enjoy this
film are todays generation of film goers who don't really have anything
to call their own since this generation will be known as the generation
of hacks and copycats. People that Truly loved the original first and
Second Film will hate this. As for which Kreuger is Superior well hands
down Robert England. I noticed someone saying how this movie is better
then the rest of Platnum dunes films which isn't saying much because
Crap is crap and the bottom of the barrel is the bottom of the barrel.
Horror is in Serious Need of Creativity and Originality . ITs a Shame
Movies like this can be put in theaters and Good Quality horror films
those that have lots of Creativity and originality Such as Trick R
Treat and Frontiers and Martyrs to name a few get shoved directly to
Video
<|_=00=_|>
I'll cut right to the chase and explain what is wrong with this movie
instead of wasting your time setting anything up. I know how awful that
feeling is, because it's exactly what this movie did for nearly 2 hours
of my day - waste my time.

SPOILERS 

Focused too much on the secondary characters at the beginning, which
was a problem because it was excruciatingly obvious that they were all
just Freddy Fodder. I actually wanted to see them die quicker instead
of spending a half hour with the plastic Barbie chick that couldn't act
to save her own life and the annoying kid that went to jail because
someone did in the first movie.

In the original, the group of four was together a lot of the time. They
all shared the same plight together. The whole purpose of the sleepover
was so that they could be there for each other if something bad
happened. Here, we still have the same four roles, but two of them do
their own thing and the other two are only communicating by phone, if
they communicate at all. The inability for this new film to create a
connection between the kids causes a disjointed feel and makes it
impossible for us to care about anyone.

In this one, that kid going to jail means nothing and his demise means
nothing. Not to me or the actual heroes of the story: the curly haired
dude with the dirty sanchez and the winner of the Emily Blunt
look-alike contest. They never saw it happen, never grieved over it,
never even seemed to give a hell. It almost seemed like something from
a different movie. In the original, the kids went to the jail, watched
it happen, and Nancy's father was a cop. They were much more involved
and therefore, the death meant something. It wasn't just killing time
like it is here.

When we do get the actual heroes, it's so far into the movie, I
couldn't help but wonder why not start the movie at that point? The
other two dying did not have any effect on what the heroes were doing.
The only constant was Freddy, who seemed much less threatening in this
movie than in the original. Emily and Sanchez just kept doing what they
would have if Barbie and the criminal didn't die at all.

The micro-naps part was not necessary and added nothing to the movie.
It was just an excuse to get Freddy into the film more. But when you
show him for no reason other than to sit around and taunt the kids,
perhaps slash at them once or twice, the fear goes away. The more I
see, the less I'm afraid. Bringing Freddy into the picture when the
kids are still awake completely defies the concept of the movie! 

There were several inexcusable moments of what can only be described as
"****ing ****ty writing". The dude falling asleep in the pool and then
witnessing what happened to Freddy years ago for absolutely no good
reason was the worst. It was insulting and nothing more than a plot
convenience. The girl sets the alarm on her phone to wake herself up in
the bath, but never thinks of using it later on when she asks the dude
to wake her when trying to bring Freddy into the real world. Why? This
is life and death and you didn't think of a contingency plan when there
was one that you already used sitting in your pocket? Another plot
convenience. Then there's the kid with the adrenaline, which does
absolutely nothing to him - an obvious plant for a later pay-off.

This is a movie for idiots. Plain and simple. There's actually a scene
in this movie where the girl pulls a piece of Freddy's sweater out of
the dream world and into the real world, and the first thing she says
is "Freddy's sweater". Really? Are you kidding me? What kind of sped
wouldn't understand that scene if the dialogue was omitted? 

It's sad, because the original Nightmare is not a very great film. The
concept is absolutely brilliant, but it could use an update. Even
sadder than that is the fact that Hollywood's mission is not to make
money by providing the public with a quality product. It's just to make
money.

There were some things about this film which I liked, but were mostly
too brief or underdeveloped. The other kids in the school picture, the
hospital sedation, etc. Just not enough to bring this turd out of the
sewer where it belongs.

It's better than the new Halloweens and Friday the 13th, but that is
about as close to praise as a racial slur. It's kind of hard to screw
up with such a brilliant concept. However, that didn't stop Hollywood
from trying.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying i thought this movie was decent. But I
expected a lot more.

We all know the story of Freddy Krueger. How he got burnt etc. In this
one it's the same, but it's the change of Freddy's character that
really lost my interest. Jackie Earle Haley is about as best as you can
get at playing Freddy Krueger. No one will ever beat Robert Englund.
He's just Freddy Krueger! I don't really need to explain the plot, you
all know the plot, BUT, let me explain the changes. In the old
Nightmare On Elm Street, Freddy Krueger would always mess with people
before he killed them. In this one he just kills them and doesn't mess
around. Nothing humorous to say, nothing, just kills them. In the
original he was a psychopathic killer who hurts children. In this one
he's just a pedophile. Loves to screw all the women and girls. To me,
that put me off. All this put me off. So Freddy's character changed a
lot, but did it work? Not for me. Didn't work for me.

All the acting was decent and there's some gory scenes, all in all, not
the remake I was expecting and had hoped for. Everything about it is
decent, but nothing great. 5/10
