
This was the worst entry in the series for the following reasons:

1. At approximately 80 minutes the film is too short and there isn't
any sort of time given to building up tension.

2. Pretty much all of the deaths are given away in the previews, so
when someone dies its no surprise whatsoever. By taking away the
surprise aspect the movie was ruined.

3. There is even less of a plot here then the other 3. Granted the
basic premise is the same but they didn't even try here.

4. The deaths themselves were very "meh" and fake looking. Way too much
CGI was used. Not only that but they cut away from what probably would
have been the most visually interesting death. 5. No Tony Todd. He was
seen in the first 2 and heard in the 3rd one. At this point the fans
expect to see him. They should have tried to get him in here somehow.

I could go on and on. I hope that if they make a 5th one that James
Wong (who directed the first and third films) returns to give the
series a proper send off as the David Ellis entries to the franchise
(the second and fourth films) are definitely the weakest links in the
series. To his credit though, part 2 did probably have some of the best
deaths in the series (opening premonition, fire escape ladder, and
plate glass).
<|_=00=_|>
For me, a rating of 5 out of 10 means I didn't like the movie, but I
didn't hate it either.

"The Final Destination" is a 3D horror thriller gimmick. Even though I
saw this in 2D, there were many elements that were very obviously
designed to be in 3D to take full advantage of the medium.

However, the film itself just isn't good. 

The acting is terrible. The story is formulaic. There's nothing really
interesting as far as the plot. No discussion of death. No new
interesting concepts. Lots of fluff in the form of false kills. And the
entire film from the opening credits to the closing credits is about
the methods in which these people die.

What this movie is really about is killing young, attractive
individuals in a manner which will compliment the 3D. Nothing else.
It's just killing people using a Rube Goldberg device or a flying
object in 3D.

Some of the special effects are good, and a few of the deaths are
interesting, however, the film doesn't really do anything for me. It's
just kind of there. I don't really hate it, but I don't really like it
either. I also don't really care for 3D in general. I think it's a
stupid way of getting you to pay a little extra, like IMAX (which is a
bigger screen and some extra speakers. Yaay).

Overall, if you like the 3D gimmick; you're just looking for a movie to
take a few friends to and have a little fun; and you don't really care
about plot, characters, or story, you might have some fun. To anyone
else, I wouldn't really recommend it. It's just a studio gimmick and
can be easily ignored.

5/10 - Nothing special.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of the franchise, you'd know the drill by now, and can
probably mentally run through all the cliché moments you'll be expected
to see being played out on screen once again. Start with a spectacular
death-defying escape from certain demise, and because Death cannot
accept those who cheated on him, hence begins that hunter-prey game
where the Death's invisible hand starts to design some elaborate
life-ending sequence for its victims, sometimes with some wickedly
black humour thrown in.

Seriously though, Death has turned hip in the series, allowing a select
group of survivors led by a prophetic messenger, if anything just to
challenge himself to pick them off one by one through the simple rule
of elimination in order of the premonition, dangling the carrot that
whosoever can break any of his death traps, will be worthy of a second
chance in life, not. One thing's for sure, an audience is not going to
just walk in and expect great acting or high drama. All we want, simply
and crudely put, is to see how brutal or comical death can result from
sometimes the most ridiculous of set ups.

To top its predecessors, this installment had its introductory big
scene set in stock car racing, which is the perfect avenue for 101
things to go wrong, and when they do, have thousands of potential
victims to pick off from. While the very first movie had a spectacular,
and some say too realistic for good taste in having witness from within
a plane break up and explode upon take-off, this one had an adrenaline
pumping race that got enhanced thanks to the latest gimmick in town,
3D.

And while some films are presented in 3D format without exploiting its
3D elements to the maximum, The Final Destination milked every single
sequence that it could. From the get go you have objects darting around
and flying toward you, be it huge tyres or mashed body insides,
everything got hurled toward you from the screen, which I have to admit
made me duck a couple of times, having deliberately chosen to sit up
front so that the screen totally enveloped my field of vision. But
there were still some sequences that looked quite cheaply done though,
akin to the quality of those made for television movies due to a
smaller budget devoted to effects. But for what it's worth as a 3D
film, this is one of the better contemporary live action ones out there
now.

One does not expect Oscar winning material in its storyline or acting,
though the eye-candy cast made sitting through this film palatable,
even if they're acting range comes with vast rooms for improvement. The
film's relatively short, clocking under 90 minutes, and had enough
cheat sheet deja-vu moments (which included the opening credits priming
you on what to excpect) to repeat itself for the sole purpose of
bloating the runtime. It also ran out of steam in its final act,
leading to a very convenient and rushed conclusion which was just
probably director David R. Ellis' way of saying "I do not know how to
end this".

Will there be another Final Destination? Sure, if the writers can dream
up of another shocker of an opening sequence to set the stage for more
deathly carnage to happen. It's no brainer, and if box office results
this opening weekend prove to be stellar, then we should expect this
franchise to develop some legs to keep going on. And on. But if that
happens, this will be viewed in 3D, or naught.
<|_=00=_|>
I would like to start off by saying I'm a fan of the FINAL DESTINATION
series. Even the much maligned third film is starting to grow on me.
When it was announced that David Ellis was returning to the director
chair (along with screenwriter Eric Bress), I was quite excited,
considering that part two is arguably the best in the series. But this
one. If I were to describe this film in one word, I would say
DISAPPOINTING. In fact, this is one of the most disappointing movies of
this year! The fact that the makers of part two has returned just adds
on to the frustration.

The film starts off pretty rushed. In fact, the film is rushed
altogether. You feel as if the filmmakers wanted to get through with
the film. The laziness is so apparent in here that you're wondering how
much the executives offered in their salary. The film is so lazy that
there are even glaring plot holes in the hackneyed script! How the hell
does a film that is based on something ridiculous have plot holes? The
filmbetter yet, the franchise, spends most of its time in setting up
rules on the order people are going to die yet this film ignores
practically everything and kills people in any order it feels like!

Even the clever foreshadowing from the previous films is quite blatant
here. The laziness is also extended to the death scenes. Remember,
quality, not quantity. Even though this film has the most death scenes
compared to the previous entries, most of them suck and even that word
wouldn't give the deaths that much justice. We all have to admit it
sooner or later but we see these films for the death scenes. What is
the freaking point in watching this film if they turn out to be lazy to
an extent that some death scenes are rehashed from previous FD films?
Exactly. There is no point.

Another problem about the death scenes is that there is barely any
suspense when people are about to get killed. Usually, in the FD films,
seeing the set up of the Rube Goldberg-like death scenes IS the
suspense, but in here, they feel as if they come out of nowhere because
of how rushed everything is. They're surprising, yes, but the surprises
wear off very quickly. Google up Alfred Hitchcock's definition of
"suspense" to learn the difference between surprise and suspense.

Let's move on to the next problem: CGI. With the 3D technology, it's
obvious the filmmakers wanted to add more CGI effects so the images
could pop out on the screen. The problem here is that the FINAL
DESTINATION series is always known for their practical effects. The
premonition sequence in here works well in 3D, sure, but the CGI is
terrible! They look so fake that I questioned how this film wasn't
released direct to DVD.

You know you have a bad film when a franchise that was supposed to be
scary and mysterious now turns into something that pokes fun of itself.
It has happened many times before, most notably, the NIGHTMARE ON ELM
STREET franchise. It's as if the filmmakers were aware that the
franchise is dying and that their last attempt was to add self-aware
characters and idiotic, dumb lines in the film with the many problems
the film already has.

Even the characters are more like an excuse to kill them off later.
It's apparent that this isn't a movie but more of a carnival ride,
waiting to see who dies and how they will die. That's how low this film
has gone. You'd also be surprised to find out that the most fleshed out
character is, in fact, not the protagonist, but a supporting character,
played by Mykelti Williamson. He gives a laughable and forced
performance but that's nothing compared to Bobby Campo, who is easily
the worst premonitionist in the franchise. He can't act to save his
life. And the less we say about the others, the better. However, I'm
willing to admit the only character I did feel sympathy for was played
by Krista Allen, who plays a motherly role with an extremely short
running time.

However, there are other few things that I liked about the film
(emphasis on the word "few"): There's a sequence in a salon and a car
wash that have at least SOME suspense. I don't know if this counts but
I also liked the opening credits, which I thought was ingenious, a
montage of the previous films' memorable death scenes. And that's about
it. Three things. What an accomplishment!

I guess it isn't hard to tell but this is, by far, the weakest in the
series because there's nothing new. You'd expect that a mythology so
easily expandable would be explored here but no. By the end of the
film, you feel underwhelmed. You wished they could have done better. In
fact, you KNOW they could have done better. If they were to make a
fifth film, they better put some thought into it. If you're thinking
about watching this movie only ONCE, you should see it in its intended
format in 3D AND in theaters, but I don't see why anyone should waste
their money on this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Arriving on local theaters without the benefit of 3-D, the novelty of
"The Final Destination" goes doubly kaput, as it not only lacks
inspired deaths and sympathetic characters, but also because the
flatness of David R. Ellis' body bag-fodder isn't mitigated by whatever
shallow entertainment an additional dimension might have brought.

Eric Bress' script wastes no time in shaping its interchangeable
characters as, apparently, Death has to immediately dive into placing
its cardboard victims in intricate fatalities that have been the
series' central gimmick. Nick (Bobby Campo) experiences a premonition
of a disaster in a race track and manages to get a few people out, who
would have otherwise died. As per the franchise's tradition, Death
won't be cheated and it starts to do anything -- like toppling cans and
letting waters drip -- to create a ripple of events that would
eliminate the survivors.

Despite showing how lame entertainment can be entertainingly lame with
"Snakes on a Plane," Ellis -- who also directed "Final Destination 2"
-- doesn't strive for an ounce of creativity, resulting to a terribly
disposable fare that fails to hit its its mark despite aiming so low.
And as embodied by the narrative shortcuts this gorefest constantly
employs, the Rube Goldberg set pieces start to feel less impressive
than mechanical, which makes one believe that Death has worked itself
too much over the last three installments.
<|_=00=_|>
I never, ever expected to give this film 3 out of 10, i'm a fan of the
series and thought FD3 was pretty damn awesome - by far the best of the
trilogy. So when i saw this movie was "THE" final destination (a pretty
cocky title, but hey it may have lived up to it) and it was gonna be in
3D i had pretty high expectations.

My expectations were wrong. This movie SUCKED. If it wasn't part of the
franchise it would have been a straight-to-DVD suckfest. Seriously i
was WAITING for it to end. The accident at the car racing ring was just
so - blah. I mean i know the whole series is far fetched and you have
to have an imagination to believe it but this one was just so
uninvolved. I mean getting on a plane, getting in a car and getting on
a roller-coaster are things where you are putting your life at risk
without thinking. Sitting in an audience? I mean come on, what's next
"Final Destination 5 - i walked down a street and a building fell on
me". By making the accident so un-scary what ensued just didn't really
leave you involved. Nothing scared me here, i wasn't unnerved like i
was with 1 through 3. Every time i get on a roller-coaster i get FD3
flashback, the only thing that will flashback to me from "THE" final
destination will be the HORENDOUS performances.

Ah the performances. FD1 had Seann William Scott & Kerr Smith, FD2 has
Ali Later & FD3 had the immensely talented Mary Elizabeth Winstead.
This film had 1 guy who could act trying to carry the whole sorry mess
and a whole lot of bitches who need to be slapped for even thinking
they should move to Hollywood. I know it's a lot to compete with but
rather than just ignoring this you'd think the producers / casting
directors would really try and pull something out of the bag here.
Apparently not. To give him his due Bobby Campo was charismatic and
tried his best with the shoddy dialogue he had. If the rest of the cast
had been as good as him then we would have no problems. Nick Zano was
OK as the cocky guy but there are people who could have done that way,
way better. The real problem? The support actresses here were AWFUL. I
just wanted to scream THIS IS NOT A COLD READING. I'm pretty sure that
there were a friggin ton of young talents who auditioned for this piece
and THIS is what they cast? Even the "MILF" (yes, she was actually
credited as that) sucked. How hard is it to be a MILF?. Shantel
Von-whatever her name is (AKA, A poor mans Ashlee Simpson) and Haley
Webb (god i wanna slap her SO hard) apparently call themselves
actresses. Before they continue to do this may i suggest something to
them, ACTING LESSONS. GET THEM. YOU SUCK! For the love of god EMOTE.
They sounded like they were reading straight from the script and looked
blank in every scene. Awful.

The deaths in FD4 were just too unrealistic. The special effects sucked
- not even 3D could begin to save them. They looked like somebody got a
little too excited with a computer and didn't really put any thought
into making it look real. Making it look just a little bit real will
scare people, making it look FUNNY is gonna annoy people.

This film was just so, disappointing. Unrealistic, uninvolving,
uninspired JUNK.

The only thing i wanna say is, if there is gonna be an FD5, and i
really hope there is considering 3/4 were awesome - then please, for
the love of god bring back Glen Morgan & James Wong. Those guys know
how to really scare people and the whole feel of the 1st & 3rd films is
just so much better.

Oh, and find people who have mastered the art of acting. Its pretty
vital.
<|_=00=_|>
This entry to the series takes a different approach. From the moment I
saw the X-rayed-death-scene opening credit sequence with the hard rock
cover of the creepy main theme of the series, I knew that the movie was
not to be taken seriously, and a little help from the third dimension
drove that idea home.

The Final Destination is a caricature of itself and the the entire
series for that matter. This film was made with the knowledge that
people still see these films for the ridiculously over the top and
creative death scenes. Its like watching the trap go off in mouse trap;
Its the only thing people came for.

There are about a dozen deaths in this entry as opposed to the regular
6-8 and the majority of them are fairly lengthy. Little attention is
payed to the story or the characters but why bother? We've seen all
this before? And I find that the hammy dialogue that the characters do
manage to sputter out, only enhances the self-parody.

Fans of the series are either going to love it or think its OK and
almost everyone else will hate it. SO If you've stuck it out through
the other 3 films, check it out, and don't take it seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
First off 7.3? That has got to be a joke. This movie had nothing going
for it besides the 3D effect, which was not used well in my opinion.
The trailer for the scrooge movie used it better/more. Besides the fact
the 3D was not used well, the acting was dreadful, even by horror movie
standards(what happened to Bubba from Forrest Gump?) and the director
did not take advantage of what he could have done with the 3D, it was
like he read a book on directing and just did all the basic shots you
are taught, when he could have got really creative with it. 

Sure if your 14 maybe its tolerable, but if you have any knowledge of
how real movies should be made, save yourself.I wish the my final
destination would have hit me before I watched this useless trash.
<|_=00=_|>
but i doubt this will be the final installment.these things are so
cheap to make,what with their no name actors.maybe i'm just getting
old,but i found myself bored out of my skull with this thing.i guess
maybe i'm just not all that entertained by people dying in
gross,disgusting ways anymore.that and i just found it all too
absurd.not too mention the story is old hat.at slightly less than
ninety minutes,this thing is slightly less than ninety minutes too
long,in my opinion.for the fourteen to mid twenty crowd,i guess this
might hold some value,and yes,it would have for me,at that age,and even
beyond.until recently in fact.it's only been maybe two years since i
realized i wanted more form my movie experience.one thing's for
sure,when the next installment comes around,that's one destination i
won't be going on.for me,The Final Destination is a 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie on the day it came out in London expecting to see
something which was like the first 3, but maybe had a little change,
maybe a twist from the original 3.. But i was left disappointed as it
is the same as the previous 3 and is just obvious and you can just tell
whats going to happen. When this situation develops, you are just going
to the movie to see gruesome deaths which just send a tingle down your
spine of utter disgust. This movie gets 4 stars because of the
following 2 stars- 3D 2 stars- acting of Nick Zano (hunt) I don't
recommend this film, but if you are a big fan of The Final Destination
and are ready to see gruesome deaths based on the same concept in 3D
then this movie is for you.

4/10
