
First off I would like to say that anyone who thinks this movie sucks
because it has very little plot is an idiot.

Now let me tell you what Ninja Assassin isn't.

Its not a serious thinking movie, it's not a Gandhi, it's not a Saw
type movie.

And it isn't a Twilight that's for sure.

The reason why Ninja Assassin is so friggin cool is because you know
that the people making this movie had one thing in mind... Have a ton
of Ninjas kill each other. Ninja Assassin is a fun guys night out type
movie, at least that's how I saw this movie. Though some people walked
out booing I walked out cheering because I came in and honestly just
wanted a huge body count and a ton of blood and boy did they deliver.

My only major critique was the CGI blood... Though there were gallons
of it coming out they could have stepped it up some more...

In a way this movie was like Rambo...Equal budget of 50 million,
unbelievable carnage and pure fun... But the difference is that its
acrobatic, its hacking slashing, gallons of blood and Ninjas with
blades on chains = )...

So all in all a solid 8/10 for me.

PS. Watch out for the opening scene and the police station scene
because those scenes are epic awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
Who knew that the most insanely violent, ridiculously brutal and
psychotically gory film of the year would be Ninja Assassin. Look
there's not much to it think 300 with Ninjas or Braveheart with less
emotional involvement and ninjas. It's quite obvious that the people
responsible for this film set out to make the most ass kicking Ninja
movie ad they even one uped themselves. i remember when I was younger
Ninjas were kinda cool but since than they've lost their flair and so
has the martial arts genre in general this one brings all that back
with a hellacious gut punch. Visually the film is incredible. It's
unlike anything you've ever seen. The fighting is quick, furious and
the story although not completely involving is involving enough so that
we kinda like the characters. What the film does explosively well is
decapitate, disembowel and explode it's victims across it's blood
soaked screen. Imagine slow motion shots of a man diving out of the way
of 100's of ninja stars, slicing people in half with samurai swords and
being born out of shadows literally. It's an exciting piece of
cinematic brilliance. i can't speak for the actual quality of this film
despite the visual flair but I don't think anyone seeing Ninja assassin
will be going in with a too critical eye. It delivers on its title and
the trailer's promises and more. It's just freaking crazy as hell.
<|_=00=_|>
Lots of blood and guts (you know it's going to be bad when the first
scene involves decapitation and blood spurting everywhere) but all
around I enjoyed the movie. I went in with an open mind, after only
seeing one movie trailer I didn't know what to expect and was
pleasantly surprised I liked it as much as I did. If you're not into
very violent movies, this isn't for you. It was action packed and
pretty intense, squeezing in an actual storyline with all the gore was
pretty seamless. The fight Choreography was fantastic and the
cinematography was beautiful (reminiscent of the Kill Bill series as
far as blood and choreography). The last fight scenes have to be my
favorite out of any action/martial arts film and had me in awe. The
lead actor (Rain) does a good job and the overall storyline was fairly
well written. I read that the screenplay was rewritten in 50some hours,
I'm not sure what it was before but the outcome was decent. All in all,
a good flick and I recommend it highly.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie, A lot of good action, and fun all around. I was really
worried about them messing the genre up by being too modern..but i
think it was a really good effort...

i'm really into a lot of old school samurai, king fu, and martial art
movies, and this one was about as good as a modern day ninja film could
be...

lot's of gore and violence, which is great to me, simply because too
many movie water down the violence in an attempt to draw in younger
audiences, but this film knew exactly who their target audience
was...and received a standing ovation as a result...

if u are expecting something fun, definitely check it out.....
<|_=00=_|>
If the Wachowski brothers' Speed Racer was the ultimate tribute to
family friendly classic cartoons, Ninja Assassin is the ultimate
tribute to 80s martial arts B movies like "Enter the Ninja", video
games like "Ninja Gaiden" and the Ultra-violent anime genre titles like
Ninja Scroll.(Already noticed the name "ninja" in all the titles
mentioned? well, what a coincidence!). It is violent, it is bloody and
packed to the gills with action. Every thing else ends up playing
second fiddle to the fights.

Unfortunately, "every else" also includes the story which is, a
hodgepodge of very familiar elements. Raizo (played by Korean star
Rain) is an orphan raised by a cruel master Lord Ozunu(played by Sho
Kosugi, famous for his starring roles in, what else, 80s ninja movies
like "Enter the ninja".) to be part of a secret clan of ninjas that
have been responsible for countless assassinations over the centuries.
Through a series of flashbacks (intercut with scenes of a half naked
hunky Rain training with some vicious looking weapons), Raizo's tragic
story is fleshed out. We see his tormented childhood days as a ninja
trainee; his only emotional refuge, an orphan girl who, like Raizo, is
part of the clan. One day, his friend tries to escape from the harsh
ninja way of life and is executed, prompting a change of heart in Raizo
who eventually betrays his clan after a narrowly botched mission. Now
on the run, hunted by both his former comrades and a special
international task force, Raizo finds an unlikely ally in the form of
Mika Coretti, a Europol agent who is close to exposing the secret
existence of the Ninjas and hence targeted for assassination.

Simply put, the unoriginal storyline is highly predictable and filled
with B movie clich√©s from stem to stern. It is a definite step down
from the philosophical Matrix trilogy or the sophisticated and
political V for Vendetta. 

Characters are, at best, cardboard cut outs and at worse painfully
bland. None of them come across as emotionally engaging. Raizo is
especially underdeveloped despite being the main character. His
internal motives for his betrayal are never fully explored and the
cheesy romance bit, not to mention the whole big about "the heart'
feels like a tacked-on afterthought. The acting is passable; nothing
better than the level of a TV series, but the script manages to have a
couple of witty lines of dialog.

Though Ninja Assassin is no work of storytelling perfection, it
delivers what it promises: lots of fights and lots of violence. Limbs
are lobbed off, stomachs are split open and heads are busted as the
movie slashes its way from one fight scene to the next, delivering
scenes of wicked weapons and bloody carnage that make even Friday the
13th and Texas Chainsaw Massacre look like a tame PG film. The fight
choreography is well executed with a good mix of slow motion and
frantic close-ups. Special effects and CGI are used to effectively give
the movie a very comic book-like feel (not surprising since the
Wachowski brothers are avid comic fans and one of the screenplay
writers is also a comic book writer). Thankfully some erratic camera
work (especially during the scene where Raizo is being chased through a
busy street) does not feel distracting but enhances the frantic and
lightning fast pace of the fights. Blood flows like rivers as Raizo
proceeds to disembowel enemies en masse; definitely not for the
squeamish.

On a whole, Ninja Assassin feels like a hack-and-slash video game come
to life from the first skirmish to the climatic showdown involving
modern day special forces taking on an army of ninja warriors . Some
cheesy bits here and there require a certain suspension of disbelief
but the film's portrayal of ninjas in general is gritty and realistic
yet preserves their mysterious and legendary status. It is refreshing
too to see that Raizo is not some invincible killing machine as he does
tire and he does take his fair share of hits, even going down a couple
of times.

Forget Naruto and all those brightly dressed, magic power spewing
ninjas of recent anime. Ninja Assassin is the butt-kicking, face
slashing answer to all that. A respectable re-imaging of a dated genre
and 99 minutes of non-stop violent escapism once you look past its
narrative flaws.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading a couple of reviews, i was prepared to come out of the
theatre disappointed, but what i saw on screen was a fantastic homage
to a a genre that has become a bit of a joke... the Ninja is back! I
cannot understand why this movie could get a negative review. You are
paying money to watch a film about violent assassins and this is
exactly what you get. Blood by the bucket load, dismemberment,
decapitation, all the things you would expect from a Ninja movie. I
would pay to watch this again, and can only hope that 18 rated movies
are not a thing of the past, and that this one does well at the box
office so a sequel can be made.

A must see.
<|_=00=_|>
This is by far the best ninja movie I have seen.

Right from the very beginning this movie is up in fast pace,
action-filled and soaking in blood. There is a lot of bloodshed in this
martial arts fest.

The story of the movie is good and keeps going at a good pace, so you
never feel bored. Of course the story is straight forward and have no
surprise twists to the plot - but an action movie of this caliber
doesn't need plot twists.

The martial arts choreography and fighting scenes are brilliant, fast
and hard punching. There are lots of really cool weapons being used in
the movie as well.

There is just one bad thing to the movie, and that is why would an
ancient clan of Japanese ninjas speak English? It makes no sense, as
Japanese people are bound to traditions. But of course, I suppose this
is kept in English to reach a wider audience. But had they actually
done it in Japanese, there would be a much more wholesome feel to the
movie. And also, again why would a Japanese clan take in non-Japanese
children and train as ninjas?

Anyway, the cast of the movie is good, and it is refreshing to see new
faces to the martial arts scene. The dialogue is straight to the point,
no clumsy, half-hearted dialogue going on here, which also helps the
movie to keep going.

So if you like ninja movies and action movies, this is definitely a
movie you cannot allow to miss out on. Top notch action from beginning
till end. But do take notice that there is a lot of blood in this
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is as cool as ninja can get ! The action sequences are jaw
dropping, the choreographies are stunning, the chases are pulse
accelerating.

The story begins in a building where a yakuza henchmen is getting
himself a tattoo. As they argue about trivial things, the clan receives
a letter with black sand inside. The tattoo master warns them about
their imminent death, but they laugh at him. The next scene is one of
the goriest one I've ever seen. The ninja hired to assassinate them
makes salsa out of their body. Ninja Assassin. 

The plot is centered around two federal agents who are on their way to
reveal the secret ninja society. Their lives are in great danger as
this secret must be preserve at all cost by the clan. Raizo (Rain) just
escaped from his clan and wants to protect Mika, one of the two agents,
as a way to redeem himself from all the sins he's done.

As this story spins and runs, we get to see a young orphan (Raizo) grow
up in a Ninja clan lead by his sadistic master who brutalizes his
students to prepare them for the path that a ninja have to walk.

All in all this movie was hands down an awesome Ninjitsu experience,
with enough blood to keep fans satisfied.

8/10 !

For information on all martial arts visit my website: MartialArtScene
<|_=00=_|>
Teen ninja prot√©g√© Raizo (Joon Lee) confesses to the love of his life,
fellow student Kiriko (Anna Sawai), "I have no heart¬Ö" in "Ninja
Assassin". Raizo has sacrificed all to transform himself into the
perfect weapon. His Sensei Ozunu (the great Sho Kosugi) reminds the
grown Raizo (charismatic Rain), the orphan he trained as a son, "Never
forget who you are." The Way of the Ninja is merciless and unforgiving,
and Kiriko's life is forfeit. Raizo, now renegade, seeks only vengeance
upon the Ozunu Clan. The perfect assassin must now become benevolent
protector and avenging angel? Raizo discovers who he really is.

This is the paradox of Director James McTeigue's bloody and stylish
"Ninja Assassin". Although the story by Matthew Sand and J. Michael
Straczynski glosses upon this internal conflict in a standard issue
vengeance tale, the spectacular bloody mayhem, and Rain's cool presence
overcome much of the routine narrative exercise. "Ninja Assassin" does
not always make sense, but it is captivating to watch. Whether it is
blindfolded Raizo wielding his chain and blade against sword wielding
rival Takeshi or Raizo fighting to the death in a burning clan
compound, the movie is engrossing.

Rain as Raizo has a commanding screen presence. I don't think Rain is a
trained martial artist. However, he is a trained dancer, handsome with
a shredded body. Working with martial arts choreographer Chad Stahelski
(student of Dan Inosanto), Rain generates a graceful deadly fighting
style. McTeigue's quick cut editing may mask some of the martial arts
precision, or may be this is just his kinetic visual style. The sword
fighting is more kung fu than bushido, but the effect is slick and
powerful. Martial arts master Kosugi as Ozunu displays the more
traditional katana technique in the climactic duel with Raizo. "Ninja
Assassin" has visually stunning and bloody martial arts fighting
scenes.

Set in Berlin, Europol Agent Mika Coretti (intrepid and spirited Naomie
Harris) believes that the recent series of brutal political
assassinations are the work of a mythical Ninja Clan. Her boss Maslow
(solid Ben Miles) is reluctant to engage Mika's theory; however, he too
discerns a shadowy conspiracy. When Mika get too close to uncovering
the Ozunu Clan, Takeshi (strong and malevolent Rick Yune) and his ninja
seek to kill her. Raizo (Rain) is forced to protect Mika, who
inadvertently interferes in Raizo's revenge and his deadly score to
settle with Takeshi.

Raizo is now compelled to protect Mika with his life. During the Ninja
attack at Europol Headquarters, he tells Mika, "They won't stop until
you're dead." Mika finally gets that Raizo is the only one who can save
her. Aside from some trite attempts at skewed martial arts wisdom about
pain and vanquishing weakness, "Ninja Assassin" is a decent hero story.
Raizo is sympathetic in his transformation. Trained to be the perfect
shadowy assassin, one must know that he is not really a good guy. Rain
as Raizo is compelling in this paradox. Raizo's vengeance is very
human, but as noble protector he becomes hero.

"Ninja Assassin" ultimately works despite itself. Director McTeigue
brilliantly avoids tripping over himself by allowing the visceral
action to morph and evolve. And Raizo is not some invincible cartoon¬óhe
is brutally bloodied in his horrendous battles. "Ninja Assassin" is
thoroughly engrossing escapist fare.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie about Ninjas doing Ninja things, being stealthy,
practicing bad-ass moves, and killing lots of other Ninjas. 

If you don't mind a plot that comes straight out of a not very good
video game there is enjoyment to be had here. Sho Kosugi is excellent
as the master ninja, and a great choice for throwback fans of much
better Ninja films like Revenge of the Ninja (last time I saw it I was
8 years old so...) . Rain (the hero ninja) barely says a word through
the movie and when he does he sounds a lot like another immortal
swordsman, Christopher Lambert.

Unfortunately the Wachowski siblings seem to be getting much worse at
special effects. Some of the scenes look absolutely unbelievable and
the Ninja training ground almost looks like a student work for a 3D
class. It must be noted that the extremely graphic decapitations look
great though. Each decapitation is enhanced with buckets of blood that
will make any Tarantino fan giddy with dark and kind of disturbing joy.

If you're looking for a realistic Ninja movie (I know I am) I guess
you'll have to Watch Leon again and pretend he's Asian. There are a
billion plot holes here, Ninjas are un-killable until the movie decides
they should be cannon fodder. Your suspension of disbelief will be
pushed into overdrive but in the end, a movie about Ninjas doing Ninja
things is always going to be at least decent. Well if you're into low
art anyway.

Oh and the movie gets an extra point for playing Being Boiled by Human
League during the end credits.
