
As you may or may not know John Cena's film '12 Rounds' was released in
Australia on the 19th of March.

Just got home from seeing it and i have to say it was great. Good,
solid movie all the way through. Having Renny Harlin as director
obviously helped make this a much better effort than previous WWE
films. Don't want to give away too much cause i really think people
will actually like this movie and that they should go see it. Good cast
- Brain J White was by far the stand out. But I have to say John's
performance was so much better this time around and you really can
notice a difference between his acting ability in '12 Rounds' and 'The
Marine'. He's not as tense and you can actually believe what he's
saying. There are little tiny things (maybe like 2 moments in the film)
that your like 'as if that could really happen' but the story keeps you
too focused to really care.

If you like car chases, you'll like this. If you like John Cena, you'll
like this. If you like a little Drama/Romance (Ladies?), you'll like
this.

Go see it, I swear you'll be surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
In recent years, there really hasn't been many truly great action
flicks to warrant fans of the genre to go to the theaters. Sure, there
has been a few entries in classic action series like Rambo and Indiana
Jones hat met with varied success, but not much in the line of fresh
new flicks has been produced (Except the awesome Crank). Thus we come
to a film that really garnered next to no hype and slipped quietly into
theaters, 12 Rounds. Is it the movie action fans have been yearning
for? Danny Fisher, played by WWE superstar John Cena, is a New Orleans
detective faced with a problem: an old terrorist named Miles he
arrested a year back has broken out of jail and has taken Fisher's
girl. Now the only way to get her back is to complete 12 rounds of a
"game" that Miles created to finally get revenge on the cop that ruined
his life. It's an unlikely scenario to be sure, but hey, this is an
action flick, so it's just preposterous enough to make for an
interesting plot. The thing I don't understand though is the fact that
in the trailer for 12 Rounds, it is said to be directed by the same
director who did Die Hard 2, and produced by the Speed producer. Why is
this odd? Well, it is obvious right from the start that 12 Rounds is a
blatant rip-off of Speed right down to some scenes being near
carbon-copies. Well, at least they ripped off the cream of the action
genre crop I guess.

One of the major compliments I feel I have to give to the filmmakers
comes in that no noticeable CGI was used anywhere in the movie. CGI has
been overused way too much as of late, so to see an action movie with
good ol' fashioned stunts and explosions is great. What's better than
no CGI is how all the action is done incredibly well. Between great car
chases, huge explosions, and nicely choreographed fights, it's a feast
for the eyes. Of course, all this awesomeness couldn't just stay
awesome thanks heavily to the awful camera-work. Similar to Quantum of
Solace's quick cuts and shaky camera during action sequences, 12 Rounds
makes it difficult at times to tell what the hell is going on. I don't
see what is wrong with traditional camera-work where viewers can
actually enjoy the high-quality special effects since they can be seen
in all their glory, but I digress.

Honestly, there really isn't much to say about this one. If you are an
action fan that has already seen every Stallone and Schwarzenegger
movie under the sun, then 12 Rounds is sure to entertain on a rainy
afternoon. Granted, it doesn't bring much to the table in terms of new
concepts or anything like that, but it's entertaining, and that all
that really matters, right? Again, it's a complete and utter rip-off of
Speed, but it's a damn fine rip-off, and I would be willing to call
this Speed 2 more than that pathetic piece of crap film with the cruise
ship. After jumping to conclusions when I saw John Cena as the star and
it being a WWE Production, I was genuinely surprised by the
entertainment value found within, and I think that if viewers go in
with the right mindset, they too will have a great time.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie has a good idea and some really seat-gripping excitement. It
reminds me of Die Hard with a Vengeance but even more exciting. The
plot is good with enough twists to keep everyone's interests.

I have only one negative thing to say...and this is that I hate the
type of camera work in this movie. It seems to be the latest rage in
movies...to have jerky-action shots. Personally I think it looks
amateurish and makes the watcher slightly nauseous. What a shame to do
that to such an exciting film.

Even with that type of photography, I would still recommend this film
and have done so. I had never seen any advertising for this film and
would not have gone to see it had I not looked up a synopsis of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I saw this movie. Why? Because it was free. No one expects this to
be a groundbreaking action movie that changes the face of the genre. I
didn't even expect it to be a decent ripoff. But hey, I had a good time
watching this one...it's not going to go down as epic or anything, but
it's certainly not the worst product featuring a wrestler in a starring
role (Doom, anyone?). This is all well and good, but they should change
the title of this film to '12 Rounds of Insanity', because there's no
way any of this movie is possible.

That's where the chuckles will begin. The premise of this movie, pretty
much 'Saw' crossed with 'Speed', is rather clever - it's the one reason
I didn't hate the movie - however, this doesn't change the fact that
this is one of the most ridiculous and insane movies of recent memory.
I don't mean insane like...cool insane. I mean insane as in that only
an insane person could see the events of the film as realistic.

Is Renny Harlin still capable of directing decent action? Sure, as '12
Rounds' doesn't do a bad job supplying some quality stunts and
explosions, which, let's face it - is all the audience really wants
from this movie. 'Die Hard 2' was a worthy entry in that series (though
it may be the most forgettable), but hey, Harlin does pack the movie
with enough action and thrills to make it at least somewhat
entertaining.

John Cena, as we know, is not an actor...I do not expect him to deliver
award worthy work, therefore he does not disappoint. He does have an
air of likability about him, but he doesn't have the same level of
charisma as most other action stars nowadays. I don't even think he
smiles in this movie. Again, is Harlin known for getting great
performances? No, so you shouldn't expect anything more. What's kind of
sad is that the actors in the movie, the people who actually have that
as their first profession, are nothing short of laughable. Ashley Scott
in particular was disappointing because of her lack of emotion. Aidan
Gillen is a passable villain (though he couldn't have been cheesier if
he tried), and is also the character hurt most by the ridiculous events
in the script. Brian White as Cena's partner was probably my favorite
character and performance in the film.

In short, '12 Rounds' is not a movie that should be taken overly
serious. It aims for an audience who expects cool explosions, a fast
talking villain, and a ton of action. In that respect, this movie is
alright. It's also the first action movie this year that the kids
(around 9 or 10 and up) should be okay in, as there's very little
language and no sex at all. If you go in with low to modest
expectations (or are in the mood for exactly what it promises), '12
Rounds' might just be a decent movie.
<|_=00=_|>
this very enjoyable action flick by renny harlin has opened in
Australia with little fanfare. it a shame for it has all the ingeedance
of a box office hit, good action,good plot,fast pace and a no brainer.

12 rounds moves at a hell of a pace which is great because if you think
about it to long its just plain stupid.but it does, so you don't care
well that is if you are a action junkie, and i guess you are or you
would not be reading.

its good to see renny back on the big screen doing what he does best
blowing stuff up.he made the better pirate movie in my option. so sit
back relax put your mind in neutral and let the fun begin.
<|_=00=_|>
Unremarkable Renny Harlin film stars John Cena as a cop who gets on the
bad side of a terrorist by "killing" his girlfriend accidentally. After
being in prison for a year the bad guy escapes, kidnaps Cena's wife and
then has Cena go through 12 rounds of danger to get his wife back.

The stunts and set pieces are spectacular but the film lacks a reason
to care. The ever increasing action scenes becomes rather dull because
they make no logical sense in or out of the film. Worse the films pace
seems to be off, I looked at my watch and the set up to the story, the
cop and terrorist meeting for the first time doesn't come for a half an
hour in (its then another 15 minutes before the chase begins in
earnest). Its as if we're watching another movie entirely before we get
to the real plot of the film. Then the film careens from set piece to
set piece, which as I said become more and more unbelievable, and
dissipates any tension because they are so fantastic. There is no rhyme
or reason to any of it. Its as if the filmmakers were making things up
as they went along, dropping plot points at the last possible minute in
a futile attempt to fill the plot chasms.

God how I wish I had been home on the couch watching this with friends
so I could have made fun of it. 11 Bucks for this? no way. While the
action is okay, the rest is a mess and shouldn't be paid for, wait for
cable.

5 out of 10 (and am I the only one who thinks this is a poor man's
passenger 57?)
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit, I did enjoy the trailer for this movie and I was
immediately intrigued. It didn't take more than 10 first minutes of the
movie for all the positive feelings to go down the drain. There are a
couple of things that are just wrong: 1) John Cena, being possibly one
of the worst actors ever. I have no idea who decided he can act: his
face portrays no emotion whatsoever, even in scenes when he should be
angry. His eyes lack of any feelings, the tone of his voice almost
never changes. Even in the scenes where he is supposed to just stand,
he does it with incompetence and discomfort. If somebody else was cast
for his role, perhaps the movie was a little bit more watchable. 2) The
movie is supposedly made by the same people who made Die Hard 2 and
Speed. No kidding! Even without knowing that for sure, you'd be able to
tell. All of the tricks used more than 10 years ago have been
reincarnated. The question is, are you a really that much of an one
trick pony to not be able to pull something original out of your
sleeve? You can literally point out more than 10 motifs that are
actually repeated again, like the terrorist on a bus; elevator crashing
down; mass transit unit without brakes (I believe it was subway in
Speed) and many many more. Plus, the ending kissing scene in a roof
pool? We've seen that. Jumping from a roof to grab a helicopter? Seen
it. You name it, we've seen it. 10 years ago. 3) The dialogs are
sometimes painful to bear with and misplaced. Especially in the last
scenes in the helicopter,
whttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt1160368/usercomments-enterhen Molly yells
Danny's name over and over and over and over again. 4) I won't point
out how unreal the movie is - at this point it's obvious.

Generally: if you're Cena fan; if you like 90's style action movies and
have not seen Speed or Die Hard, this might be just the movie for you.
The remaining 98% of the population should really pass.
<|_=00=_|>
John Cena, who should stick to the wrestling ring, does in 12 ROUNDS
what boils down to a reprise of his character from THE MARINE. The plot
is also the same, which has Cena once again chasing after his kidnapped
wife. The actress playing the wife even looks like the wife from THE
MARINE. The only difference is this time, Cena must match wits with an
IRA type who puts Cena through a series of improbable tasks to save
her. The film is of the shaky camera and CGI variety, and it frankly
isn't as heart-pounding as THE MARINE. This is partly because we've
seen it all before, and because the tasks Cena must undertake are
completely unbelievable. Plus the acting is sub par. The flick also is
highly derivative of past flicks like DIE HARD, PHONE BOOTH, DIRTY
HARRY, CELL PHONE and LETHAL WEAPON, among others.
<|_=00=_|>
If you can just avoid asking "how?" you might enjoy this film as an
exciting collection of action scenes. The villain does bad things, and
the hero John Cena manages to save the day (as expected). Reality and
logic are overlooked when they are in conflict with a good action
scene. The fact that the action in this film could never, never ever
happen is beside the point.

Very little time is spent on character development, since all you need
to know is who the villain is. You find this out within a minute or
two, and you can then switch off your brain for the rest of the film.

This film is immune to criticism. John Cena does not have any big
acting scenes, and might even be capable of passable acting. However,
he's not called upon to do much acting. His execution of the stunts and
action scenes is amazing.

How can anyone complain about an illogical plot when the film was
produced by the WWE and stars a professional wrestler? The movie was
filmed entirely in New Orleans,and makes terrific use of dozens of
locations. I probably gave it an extra point or two for this. 

The scene with the "runaway streetcar" has got to be an in-joke,
because the "real" Canal Street streetcar cannot travel more than a
half-block at a time at a very, very slow pace. It is frequently
blocked by vehicles stopped across its tracks. The havoc (if not
revenge) wreaked on vehicular traffic by this runaway streetcar has got
to bring delight to any local streetcar rider.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it possible for a film to have too much action? Not when there are
constant bouts of well-choreographed destruction or martial arts
mayhem. But when it comes to mundane, familiar action scenes that have
been played out on our screens decades then the answer is yes  and
that's the problem with 12 ROUNDS. It has the makings of a decent
action flick, but when it comes down to it, 12 ROUNDS is an
all-too-familiar exercise in cinematic familiarity.

This film's a perfect example of overkill  it kicks off with an
explosive car chase and has absolutely nowhere to go from that point
in. The scrawny screenplay sees man-mountain John Cena (a
wrestler-turned-actor whose appalling acting was previously showcased
in THE MARINE) sweat and grunt his way around the streets of New
Orleans, at the beck and call of a terrorist with a grudge. If this all
sounds very familiar stuff indeed, it's because the storyline is a
direct rip-off of DIE HARD WITH A VENGEANCE, borrowing so many elements
from that movie that I'm surprised a lawsuit for plagiarism wasn't
filed. And it's not half as good.

Director Renny Harlin, who once showed promise with DIE HARD 2 and
CLIFFHANGER, continues his journey as a journeyman without an ounce of
style (this one's only marginally better than THE COVENANT). Instead of
bringing his own method to the table, Harlin is content to copy the
style of the Bourne flicks, with mucho camera shakery to render the
on-screen antics incomprehensible. Not that we're missing much. As Cena
blows up half the city in pursuit of his kidnapped girlfriend (and
she's not somebody you'd bother getting out of bed to make a cup of tea
for, let's be honest), there are the usual concessions to the PG-13
market and scenes oddly familiar from other movies (the bit where they
transfer the action from SPEED onto a tram is particularly pathetic).
Add in a bad guy who's more of an irritant than a genuine threat, and
you have a sub-par movie in every respect.
