
Q'Orianka Kilcher plays Princess Kaiulani, in a true story about one of
the last heirs to the throne of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The film follows
Kailulani's life, starting with her early, happy life in Honolulu,
then, her education at Victorian England after the imposition of the
Bayonet Constitution, which stripped Hawaiian monarchy of much of its
authority. When Hawaii is soon overthrown, she returns to Hawaii in her
campaign to convince the U.S. to reverse the overthrow.

This adaptation of Princess Kaiulani's life probably should've been
quite good. It is a fascinating part of Hawaiian history that many are
unfamiliar with. It was unfortunate, therefore, that the film spent
much of its time on the less historical, but more mundane aspects of
Princess Kaiulani's life.

Q'Orianka Kilcher's performance brings a relatable, somewhat spunky,
every-girl aspect to her princess character. With that said, the
script, sadly, doesn't fully flesh her out as I hoped. Many scenes in
her life feel just tacked on to evoke sympathy, but no real texture or
subtlety. For example, all the scenes with her prized seashell
collection, which one would think will play a big part later, isn't
really brought up again to any real significance. The supporting
characters don't fair any better. Kaiulani's close friend Alice (Tamzin
Merchant) is two-dimensional, and is allowed only to look deeply
concerned and appears merely to suit Kaiulani's needs in the plot. I
had no idea what benefit Alice gets from being Kaiulani's friend. Miss
Barnes (Catherine Steadman), one of the heads of the school, comes off
as just a generic, mean lady that audiences can hiss at. Kaiulani's
initial relationship with one of the servant boys, which appeared
significant at first, doesn't turn into anything beyond a small scene
later. Admittedly, Jimmy Yuill is memorable as Kaiulani's Scottish
father, Archie, who appears to be Kaiulani's biggest supporter and
perhaps the biggest motivator for her to want to help her people. I
also liked all the scenes involving King Kalakaua (Ocean Kaowili), a
charismatic and somewhat tragic character, certainly.

I felt too much time was spent on Kaiulani and Clive's (Shaun Evans)
romance, which felt generic, if not unnatural, given the fact that they
were supposed to dislike each other. I must've seen this scene many
times--the girl accidentally falls on the guy from the bicycle, both
tumble onto the grass, and they fall in love with picturesque green
hills in the background. In contrast, the kissing scenes are rather
sensuous, even if the romance is on the bland side. However, things do
get more interesting when Kaiulani has to pick between the plights of
her people and a possible marriage to Clive.

The film shines when the subject of politics is involved. A dinner
conversation scene with Kaiulani and President Cleveland (Peter Banks)
using food as a way to talk politics is clever and effective. A scene
where Kaiulani gives her first speech shows that she does have her
flaws, and allows us to really root for her character. There's also a
war scene that bring a bit of harsh reality to the situation in Hawaii.
All the scenes that relate to history are the best scenes. In addition,
the period sets and costumes are excellent in this film and really
bring out the Victorian time period. It would've been nice to see more
on how a Hawaiian monarchy functions, but what is shown is still
interesting.

Despite initial pacing issues, the film picks up as we get to know
Kaiulani as her people know her todaya shrewd politician. Where did
she develop this skill? Somewhere during her Victorian England
education, I think (although we never saw her study). Princess Kaiulani
certainly is a great subject for a film. This film did make me want to
know more about her, the politics of the time, and the general history
of Hawaii. Perhaps that was the intention. If one were to look her up
on Wikipedia, one will find many significant events in her life that
were not in this film, which would've been great to see. Perhaps we'll
see a film like that one day. As it is, this film is still a good light
intro to a fascinating individual. ** ½ out of **** stars.

You can follow my reviews on http://twitter.com/d_art
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was disappointing. As a native Hawai'ian, I was excited to
see and support a historical movie detailing a significant period in
our history filled with issues that still weigh heavy on us until this
day. Most of the movie seemed amateurish and poorly put together but it
tells a story so I guess thats what mattered. There are several scenes
which serve merely to develop the viewer's sympathy for Ka'iulani in
love, begging us to be overly sensitive towards our heroine and an
interest in love while in England ..instead of building her character
around more important issues that were her life. Characters like Alice,
Archie, Miss Barnes are shallow and rather dull. They exist solely to
enhance Ka'iulani and funnel the plot towards her own turmoils in
romance.

Though the dialog has its moments (like the lovely conversation at
dinner in regards to food and politics), the whole movie gets
sidetracked by just another fated love story... the same one we've seen
a million times: Girl and boy from different situations, finances,
countries, and dispositions are supposed to hate each other, but end up
falling madly in love. There were also many significant events in
Ka'iulani's life that are not portrayed in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Ka'iulani did exist  at least they got that right. She was an
interesting minor historical figure, beautiful, charming, smart, brave
and determined. They got that right too, but not much else. Some of the
main facts were correct. She was the last heir to the throne of
Hawai'i, educated in England and did visit President Cleveland. Her
family's monarchy was suppressed and her country annexed by the USA.
But history isn't so clear about her motivations  to nobly serve her
people, as in the movie, or to retain/regain her family's enjoyment of
hereditary power and adulation.

The real Ka'iulani was something of a heroic failure. Her charisma and
shuttle-diplomacy may have delayed some of the inevitable, but not by
much and she achieved almost nothing in the end. She had long suffered
from ill-health (ignored in the movie) and died in her early 20s. A
true biopic of her life would be fascinating but rather sad and
depressing. This manufactured twaddle was nothing much at all.

Kilcher is a fine actress, as shown in New World (where she had rather
better support) and she does her best here in a feebly written part.
The support is horrible, Pepper hamming it up as the villain and Evans
as a shoehorned-in love-interest bland and tedious enough to stretch
credibility as any kind of interest for a woman like this. The script
is trite and ghastly, apart from authentic quotes  Princess K herself
had better script-writers! Production values, costumes and settings do
pull this up a little way by the bootstraps but not very far.

The worst thing here is the manufactured story, not only false but
lacking any originality. The romantic strand is trite, ridiculous and
way too time-consuming  as though there was nothing more interesting
to say about this woman. Ludicrous cameos  nasty people from her
schooldays being welcomed and helped by this saintly figure. And a true
Hollywood-style happy ending. Meanwhile the true hero of the vain
battle to preserve Hawai'i from the USA, Queen Liliʻuokalani, is
diminished to an insignificant bit-player. This movie may have been
well-intentioned but it's worse than just a waste of time. To turn the
history of these real and genuinely fascinating women into this
clichéed garbage is criminal.
<|_=00=_|>
Burt Lancaster was not an Indian, but the English/Irish actor played a
Potawatomi in Max Steiner's "Jim Thorpe: All-American" and one of
Geronimo's tribesman in Robert Aldrich's "Apache". Paul Muni had no
Chinese blood. Susan Kohner had no black blood. Marlon Brando had no
Okinawan blood. In retrospect, now that the cinema is well-represented
by all walks of life, such racial performances, however well-meaning,
instantly dates the film. Blood is important, but it doesn't
necessarily have to make or break the movie if the filmmaker employs
red-face(or black-face, or yellow-face) simply as a means to an end(the
productions of "The Good Earth", "Imitation of Life", and "The Teahouse
of the August Moon" would not have been mad without the prevailing film
industry's political incorrect casting practices), in which the
masquerading actors aren't consciously foregrounding their appropriated
ethnic impersonation through grotesque minstrelism(for starters, Mickey
Rooney's take on the Japanese in Blake Edwards' "Breakfast at
Tiffany's"). Nowadays, if a minority race gets misrepresented, it's
less a matter of outright racism, but rather, a marketability concern,
which is best exemplified by the casting of non-Japanese actresses
Zhang Ziyi, Gong Li, and Michelle Yeoh in "Memoirs of a Geisha".
Likewise, "Princess Kaiulani", a sugar-coated chronicling of the
Hawaiian royal who, due to American intervention, was denied the chance
to rule her island nation, would never have been financed with a
"Hapa"(a Hawaiian with Caucasian blood). It's a knee-jerk reaction to
call this film racist, because the overriding flaw of "Princess
Kaiulani" has nothing to do with Q'orianka Kilcher's Peruvian/Spanish
background; it's the performance that the filmmaker coaxes out of her,
which doesn't clearly delineate a resolute anti-colonization stance.
That's because the star of Terrence Malick's "The New World", as
Kaiulani, behaves more like her oppressors, than the native Hawaiians
she professes to love.

By all accounts, Princess Kaiulani was not a coward, so the historical
inaccuracy of a colonialist-led insurgency(during a lighting ceremony
which introduced electricity to Honolulu) as being the catalyst for her
overseas voyage to England, could be construed as an insult to the
girl's legacy. Being non-Hawaiian is not the insult. But it's a
forgivable offense(in the context of narrative film), since all biopics
that depict the past rewrites itself for the sake of clarity and time
compression. While in London, Kaiulani complies with Belle Epoque
fashion(wide-shouldered blouse with muttonchop sleeves, cinched with a
corset and wide belt to hug the waist), which wouldn't have been
especially foreign to the princess, who wore European-style clothing
back home, but Kilcher's assignation of the fairer "ali'i" suggests
that the filmmaker decided against addressing the young woman's
"other-ness". Although Kaiulani should look English, she shouldn't
literally be a descendant of Queen Victoria, which is how Kilcher plays
the princess, as a "barbarian" without the slightest trepidation about
gaining entree into a wholly new culture. Kaiulani seems bereft of
royal carriage, giggling and mugging for Clive(Shaun Evans), lost as
she is in the throes of love, despite her consciousness(that's why the
opening scene proves to be problematic) of the governmental tumult back
home, having been a first-hand witness to the king's premier being
taken hostage at gunpoint by the Hawaiian League before her hasty
departure. This big romance dominates "Princess Kaiulani", at the
expense of detail surrounding the fallout from the Bayonet Constitution
that resulted in the reigning queen(Liliokulani) being ousted from her
dismantled court. The film conjures up emotional uplift(big
rabble-rousing speeches, an appointment with President Cleveland, the
restoration of her title, purely symbolic) to obscure the tragedy that
befell the native population, who had lost their land to the
missionaries(a fact that gets lost in Kaiulani's small victory of
restoring the Hawaiian people's right to vote), and lives(due to
disease transmitted from the newly minted foreign landowners). Not
enough is made ado about this drastic transference of power. Worst of
all, despite Clive being in cahoots with his family to deceive
Kaiulani(who should have known that a coup was in the making), she
accepts the British gentleman with open arms at her seaside
"coronation", going so far as kissing him in front of her people during
their darkest hours. That is not how a dethroned monarch would act.
"Princess Kaiulani" treats the loss of her personal happiness and
kingdom as commiserating catastrophes. 

Being ethnic for an ethnic role, in this case, Hawaiian, is not nearly
as important as acting certifiably ethnic, a non-Hawaiian with an
authentic spirit, which is what Kilcher lacks, as a result of he
filmmaker's passive attitude towards colonization.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of Victoria Cleghorn, aka Princess Ka'iulani,
the last heir to the throne of the Kingdom of Hawaii. She was the
daughter of a Scottish financier and a Hawaiian princess, and became
heiress presumptive to the throne on the death of her uncle King
Kalākaua. She never, however, inherited the crown because her aunt,
Queen Liliuokalani, provoked the wrath of the kingdom's white minority
by attempting to reverse the Bayonet Constitution, which concentrated
power in the hands of that minority, and to restore the rights of the
native Hawaiians. 

This led to the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii in 1893, and the
country's subsequent annexation by the USA, one of the murkier episodes
in American history and one which still sometimes causes modern
Americans to have a guilty conscience. Admittedly, their treatment of
the Hawaiians was no more ruthless than their treatment of various
Native American peoples over the previous hundred years or so, but they
could always justify their behaviour on the mainland by reference to
the "manifest destiny" ideology. Supporting the overthrow of an
internationally recognised sovereign government by a racist clique of
white businessmen and then annexing the country at the behest of that
clique was a bit too close for comfort to the European-style
imperialism which many nineteenth-century Americans affected to
deplore. 

The film tells Kaʻiulani's story from a viewpoint sympathetic to her
and to the Hawaiian cause, but was nevertheless controversial in
Hawaii, particularly among native Hawaiians. Part of the reason was its
original title "Barbarian Princess", which was deemed particularly
offensive, even though it was intended in an ironic way to highlight
19th-century American and European prejudices. Also controversial was
the fact that the Princess was not played by a Hawaiian actress;
Q'orianka Kilcher is of mixed native Peruvian and European descent and
(pace Thor Heyerdahl's eccentric theories to the contrary) the
Hawaiians and other Polynesian peoples are not Native Americans but
originated in Asia. Q'orianka may, however, have won the role because,
to judge from photographs, she bears a certain physical resemblance to
Kaʻiulani, despite their different ethnic origins. 

"Princess Kaʻiulani" is notable as a rare example of a movie which
defies normal Hollywood conventions by making the Americans the bad
guys and a group of foreigners the good guys; the principal villain is
Lorrin Thurston, one of the organisers of the coup which overthrew
Liliuokalani and depicted here as an arrogant white racist who despised
the Hawaiian people. That apart, however, there is little else which
makes the movie stand out from the ordinary. Much of the plot is given
over to Kaʻiulani's supposed love affair with a handsome young
Englishman named Clive and, apart from being totally fictitious, this
development is of little interest compared to the dramatic events which
were unfolding in the princess's homeland. None of the acting
contributions stand out and, despite its potentially interesting
subject, the film rarely rises above the level of a run-of-the-mill
biopic. 

The film ends with by noting that in 1993, one hundred years after the
overthrow of Liliuokalani, President Clinton and the United States
Congress apologised to the Hawaiian people for America's role in these
events, although they did not, of course, follow up their apology by
recognising that the annexation had been illegal under international
law and that it was therefore incumbent upon America to restore the
independence of Hawaii. Bill Clinton must be kicking himself about that
missed opportunity. With one stroke of his pen he could have turned the
Hawaii-born Barack Obama into a foreign national, Hillary could have
gone on to win the 2008 election and Bill could be back in the White
House as America's first First Gentleman. 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie not knowing much about the history of Hawaii
before it became a state of the United States of America. It was
interesting to learn about the story of the last princess (or some say
Queen) of Hawaii. This intelligent, beautiful and elegant young woman
fights with passion for her country and it's people.

I guess you can say we all know how it ends and unfortunately it is a
very sad story for Princess Kaiulani.

The movie is a little confusing at the beginning because it is not
explained how she is a princess and her uncle is King not her mother
who passes. At least I don't think her mother was Queen. Let's just say
I am uncertain about that but Kaiulani starts out as a princess and her
father is of Scottish descent and not of royal blood.

About 45 minutes into the movie I thought is it over all ready not
because I was bored really but because the story just seemed like what
more could there be to tell. You have to realize this is a film about
Princess Kaiulani and not just Hawaii.

I think the costumes and production was beautifully done. The storyline
a little confusing at time and cuts to soon to different points but it
was well done. Not good enough to watch twice but interesting enough if
you are into the history of royals and history of Hawaii.
<|_=00=_|>
PRINCESS KA'IULANI feels like a made for TV movie, a film that will
inform the viewer about a bit of history few know, but also a rather
static and amateurish production - pretty to look at, embarrassing to
hear. Marc Dorby directed this his first directorial outing based on
his story written with the assistance of Robert Payne. The facts
presented are apparently true and since few know the background history
of Hawaii it is at least informative. 

Without much historical background about the Islands before the
Americans inserted themselves to feast on the beauty and agricultural
goods of that paradise, the film begins with a conflict between the
anti-Royalists lead by Thurston (Barry Pepper in muttonchops) and the
Royal reign of King Kalalaua (Ocean Kaowili), Queen Liliu'okalan (Leo
Anderson Akana). Princess Ka'iulani (Q'orianka Kilcher, a half Peruvian
actress remembered for her role as Pocahontas in THE NEW WORLD with
Colin Farrell and Christian Bale) is the niece who is in line for the
throne, a royal personage who understands kindness in regards to the
people of her nation (she is only half Hawaiian - her father is a
Scotsman). To protect the princess she is sent to England where she
gradually grows accustomed to British snobbery and overcomes it through
her inner strength, living in the home of the Davies - Mr. Davies
(Julian Glover, Alice Davies (Tazmin Merchant, from THE TUDORS) and
Clive Davies (Shaun Evans). The family presents her to society,
nurtures her, and the princess falls in love with Clive, who is juts
ready to enter university, and they become engaged. Back home in
Honolulu things disintegrate: Thurston gathers rebels to take over the
Royal rule, alters the constitution to forbid voting by the natives,
the King dies, and the Queen is under house arrest. Princess Ka'iulani
travels to the United States to plead her case with President
Cleveland, receives a grand reception and then returns home to Hawaii,
raises her dignity to cope with Thurston and the anti-Royalists and
with the assistance of Sanford B. Dole (Will Patton) she is able to
alter the new constitution to allow voting rights to her people. 

If that all sounds a bit short on story then the viewer can understand
why so much time is spent with the princess, Julie and Clive skipping
along the beach and finding other moments of diversion to fill the 90
minutes of the film. The cast is competent and delivers the piecemeal
scraps of script given them well. In the end there jut isn't much story
here that isn't fairly obvious from the first 15 minutes of the film.
It is a good lesson about the US annexation of Hawaii and the tension
between the native Hawaiians and the 'invaders'......

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
I love period movies and this is my new favorite! Hawaii, has always
been an interest to me considering I have ancestors that are
Polynesian. I had no knowledge of Princess Kaiulani, and I am at awe
that this was part of the history involved in the deceitful making of a
nation.

The acting was amazing! The cinematography and wardrobe were amazing!
How I missed the release of this movie in 2009 is beyond me.

I recommend this movie for anyone that likes period movies, Romance and
historical.

On a side note, what I find interesting is in real life how Princess
Kaiulani died. Inflammatory rheumatism? can be a variety of
disorders...it is written that she died of pneumonia? Was it that? or
was she poisoned? Considering what she went through and what she had
done....

What a cover up that would be...anyone could have planted in the papers
that the cause of her death was inflammatory rheumatism. Interesting!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the movie was very interesting with strong performances but
poor editing. Events often seem to occur out of order and there is some
scenes where she just sitting on the beach thinking. One very good
directing choice was that rather than force feeding us historical
information we found out the fate of Hawai'i as Kaiulani does. There
really are many great cinematic moments here, but it comes off as a
mish-mash.

I believe "Barbarian Princess" would have been a much better title, as
that's how US papers referred to Ka'iulani, and she was anything but.

I can't speak on the movie's accuracy, but the events are fascinating
and this movie makes me want to learn more about Ka'iulani and the
Kingdom of Hawai'i.

This gets a higher rating from me due to it's unique subject and the
performance of the lead actress.
<|_=00=_|>
Hawaii's loss wasn't everyone's gain to say the least. The rich and
powerful White minority wanted to dominate the natives of this
beautiful necklace of islands, and succeed they did as we all know, but
at what price: the inner and outer beauty of a Princess no less, as
well as the beauty of the land. The fact that I live in Hawaii may bias
my point of view. How can it though? Tears rolling throughout the movie
is an indication. Is it? Any grave injustice should bring, among other
things, tears. Hawaii was wronged by the USA with formal excuses coming
only in 1993. Shame, and tears, many tears for Princess Kaiulani. May
her name shine till the end of time.
