
If Paul Blart: Mall Cop had been made 20 years ago, it would have
starred John Candy. That's a complement, by the way. Candy had a knack
for playing bungling, yet good-hearted people who mainly wanted to
please. He certainly specialized in playing people who tried too hard
to be nice to cover up past pain. There's a lot of this in Kevin James'
performance as the title character here. He's more than just a comic
goofball. James turns him into a likable and surprisingly sympathetic
hero that we find ourselves cheering for by the end.

Kevin James rose to fame on television starring on the sitcom, The King
of Queens, and has been trying to break into movies for a while now.
He's acted along side stars like Will Smith and Adam Sandler, but this
is his first shot at a stand-alone starring role. Sandler is still
there behind the scenes (His Happy Madison production company produced
the film.), but this is James' film all the way, and he doesn't waste
the opportunity. His Paul Blart is admirable in a way. He's overweight
and he suffers from hypoglycemia, but he always tries to do the right
thing. He's passionate about his job as a mall cop, but he'd really
like to be a police officer on the street. He's taken the physical
entrance exam many times, but his health problems have prevented him
from finishing. He makes up for his shortcomings by being the best mall
cop he can be, and by also being a good single father to his teen
daughter (Raini Rodriguez), who respects him and wishes he could fall
in love again. Paul has his eyes on a young woman named Amy (Jayma
Mays), who also works at the mall. The first half hour or so of the
film is devoted to Paul's life, and it certainly helps us get into his
corner when the actual plot kicks in.

It's Black Friday, the busiest shopping day of the year, and some high
tech criminals stage a lock down and a hostage situation at the mall as
they pull off their theft plan. They place motion sensors and small
bombs at the entrances, so no one can get in or out. They think they've
removed everyone from the building, but didn't notice Paul was in the
back of the arcade playing Guitar Hero. When he emerges from the
arcade, he quickly learns about the hostage situation, and discovers
that both Amy and his daughter are amongst them. This kicks off the
main action, where Paul must use his resources around him to out think
and outrun the criminals while keeping everyone alive. I liked this
aspect of the story, and how Paul Blart actually has to be clever in
order to outsmart the captors. The movie is rated PG, so it's never too
violent or scary for kids, which is the perfect target audience for the
film. They'll like the film's gentle and goofy humor, and accompanying
adults may find themselves charmed by Blart himself.

I never laughed out loud while watching this movie, but I did smile a
lot, and I found myself caring more about the main character than I
imagined. Let me tell you, that's more than I expected walking into a
movie called Paul Blart: Mall Cop. There's plenty of sweetness during
the early moments, establishing Paul's shy relationship with Amy, and
the caring one he shares with his daughter. When the time comes for him
to be a hero, we can cheer for him, because the movie makes him into a
true underdog. He's constantly battling with his own shortcomings and
health issues, and it's clever the way he keeps on finding ways to keep
himself going, driven by saving the ones he loves. If I'm making the
movie sound too serious, it's not. There's plenty of slapstick gags,
surprisingly no bodily fluid or toilet humor to be found, and some
pretty good physical comedy on display. If there's any major
shortcoming to be found, it's that the movie is pretty inconsequential,
and will probably be forgotten by me a few months from now.

Still, considering the kind of junk that usually clogs theaters in
early January, Paul Blart certainly is not bad. I imagine the movie
will make a good rental, since its somewhat small scale will make it
perfect for watching on TV rather than the big screen. If anything,
it's one step closer to making James the cross-over star he obviously
wants to be. I wouldn't mind seeing the same kind of likability he
gives here in a less juvenile script. He's on to something here, he's
just gotta find the project where he really knocks one out of the park.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is getting a surprising amount of hate and I don't know why.
There is very little in the way of violence, even less in the way of
sex and even the gross-out jokes are kept way below what is usually the
minimum level for comedies lately. The bad guys get around the mall
with mountain bikes, skate boards and by utilizing some impressive
parkour moves. Clearly this movie was meant for the PG crowd and in
that it succeeds. It's a nice clean family comedy that everyone can
attend and enjoy. There were lots of families in the theater when I saw
this movie and they all seemed to have a pretty good time. They laughed
and giggled and there was very little of the bored chatter you hear
sometimes at kids/family movies.

I was thinking a little about the John Candy movie Summer Rental after
I saw this. Candy played a few different roles in films before he did
Summer Rental but that movie is where you see the classic John Candy
affable lug character that kind of served as a template for most of his
following roles. His characters were usually some variation of that, he
did it well and people loved it. Kevin James has a similar likable
quality and I'm hoping that maybe he picks up the Easy Going mantle
where John Candy left it.

To paraphrase Paul Blart himself, "Don't write this movie off." Like I
said, there were plenty of scenes that had both kids and adults
laughing together. Isn't it worth at least the price of a matin√©e
ticket to laugh for a while with your kids?
<|_=00=_|>
Never watched King of Queens, never have been a Kevin James fan but
always liked him better than his pal Ray Romano. I was coerced into
seeing this Mall Cop movie. I give it a 6 out of 10. Now some may say
that is a low rating, some may say better than mediocre.....for me who
normally does not like this guys type of humor, this is a great
rating!!! It was mildly entertaining...for me it gets the extra star to
put it at 6 because it's refreshing to see some humor that's not overly
sarcastic, deeply degrading to someone else (except the title
character), or just downright cruel. This relied on what I call "Bill
Cosby" sense of humor. Funny but overall clean. A bit cheesy, but I
think that's what Kevin and the screenwriters were going for. Normally
I don't get why people think he's funny but in this case, I did get
it....and you can't help but like the guy. Without giving any detail,
the bar scene for me was one of the most Laugh Out Loud moments in the
movie. The way KJ zips around on the Segway is pretty hilarious
although because of it's consistency throughout the movie it wears off
a bit. I agree with previous reviews of how the villains kind of
downgraded the movie a bit. If that was smarter, or those parts were
rewritten, it could have been a lot funnier. Another surprising aspect
is Kevin's agility, and athleticism. In this particular movie he is
very physical (or at least stunt doubles allow him to appear that way)
Overall my 6 out of 10 rating should be perceived as a great rating for
this movie. I previously never liked this actor, I thought the title
was dumb as dirt, and although I always keep an open mind I would be
lying if I didn't say that my expectations were very, very low for
this. Certainly not as bad as I thought it would be, and not as great
as I thought it could have been. Kevin and cast made this a little
better than average...and it changed my mind about my hesitation with
this guy....I hope someone puts him in a good movie with a great script
in the future (better than Chuck and Larry, Hitch). I believe it will
do well on cable. One last thing that I must mention was great, at 82
mins...it was just long enough to not overdue what should be viewed as
a kinda silly concept.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the premise of this movie, I had a chuckle. It had the
potential to be a decently funny movie, something perhaps with heart,
something that delivered a good deal of laughs and you walked out
feeling good. I wasn't expecting an Academy Award winning movie. Its
definitely not Oscar-worthy. The real disappointment lies in the lack
of humor in it.

Paul Blart (Kevin James) is a mall cop that seems to have no direction
in his life. They go to good lengths to show how truly depressing his
life is. Paul sees a woman in his mall, Amy (Jayma Mays), running a
stand for hair extensions. He realizes that he needs to be with her and
tries to woo her, even though he has no self-esteem. Just as the story
is falling apart, the mall where they both work is robbed in a
supposedly sophisticated scheme. Suddenly our slovenly friend is thrust
into a role where he can try to impress the love of his life and excel
at his job at the same time. Easy to guess where this story is going,
no? 

The acting was okay, the direction was tolerable. The problem is the
script. As I said, the story itself had potential. It just felt as if
the writers could decide where this was a character they loved or
hated. It really could have used another re-write or two to develop the
script a little more. The movie is tolerable, but realize that not only
are you not seeing an Oscar-worthy movie, but you'll be a little
disappointed in the laughs as well. 3/10
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't too sure about this movie when I saw the trailers. It looked
like it might be a total waste of time, along the lines of "Delta
Farce" or "Meet the Spartans". However, after reading some of the
reviews, and being a fan of "King of Queens", I decided to check it out
and was pleasantly surprised to have enjoyed it. The casting was
excellent, the screenplay was very good, and Kevin James fit the bill
perfectly. I can't imagine anyone other than him playing the role of
Paul Blart, Mall Cop.

Paul Blart is an overweight, hypo-glycemic (prone to fainting spells),
shopping mall security guard who lives with him Mom and teenage
daughter somewhere in North Jersey. Paul aspires to be a NJ State
Police officer but cannot pass the required physical, and thus is
consigned to his present job at a West Orange, NJ shopping mall. While
Paul is on duty, a group of armed robbers attempt to steal the credit
card receipts. The remainder of the film is Paul doing battle with this
group of robbers. This sounds more serious than it is. Rest assured,
it's a fun comedy with many funny gags / bits.

I'd recommend this movie to anyone who liked "King of Queens" or has an
affinity for light-hearted comedies.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer for this movie, I was more than anxious to see
it. Then I saw another one and it made me see it even more. Then I saw
the movie and guess what, all the good scenes were those that I've
already seen and nothing more. The idea itself is a very interesting
one at very least, but it's the realization is where the movie fails.
The story begins to borderline on being boring halfway through, and it
all begins to be more than predictable. Once or twice the story takes
an engaging turn, but it's really not enough. The funny parts are to be
counted on the fingers of one hand, and the ending is -again- so
predictable, it hurts. Which is a shame, because the acting is really
good, Kevin James is truly shining through and proving that he's a
really good actor; again, not nearly enough to salvage the shortcomings
of the plot and the lack of jokes. Which is a shame. Movie starts
really promising, but the further we go into the movie, the more
painful it becomes to watch it. As if the makers gave up on it after
shooting the first 30 minutes. I'm giving it 5 stars only because the
first half an hour is really decent. And I gotta admire James doing all
his stunts. So do yourself a favor. Don't watch the movie. Watch the
trailers. That's all you need to see.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailers, enjoyed King of Queens, and thought I'd enjoy this
Kevin James jaunt as a Saturday afternoon film. A film which should be
quietly enjoyable and give a few laughs.

What I watched was mind-numbing garbage. Whilst I didn't expect
anything too original, I didn't think I'd get such unoriginal, factory
fodder. There was nothing to be enjoyed, and almost everything was too
expected. The little that was marginally original was creepy. I felt
like screaming to the love interest, don't go any near that stalker as
he zoomed in on CTV then offered a lift on his mop-mobile. Would anyone
say yes if a creepy guy offered to put his arms around you on his
Segway when you just met the guy; especially one with stalker
tendencies? The scene in the bar that followed was just as painful to
watch, and even more reason for the love interest to run a mile.

The writers seemed to forget that if you're going to create formula
movies, with a loser you need the audience to like, that there has to
be something positive and likable about the character. I can't think
about anything redeeming during the first twenty minutes. The writers
took too many liberties with the audience and just presumed, 'Hey, this
is an actor everyone likes, we don't need to make any effort in the
script to support this.' This is not Kevin James greatest moment. The
box office receipts merely show how successful good advertising can be,
no matter how bad the product is.
<|_=00=_|>
After waiting opening night in the freezing cold to see this, I was
happily not disappointed in Paul Blart: Mall Cop. Yes, we all know it's
not meant for critical acclaim but for pure comical entertainment and
it delivers. I'm sure after anyone sees it, they're going to want one
of the little vespa vehicles he drives.

Anyway, Kevin James is Paul Blart, an overweight suburban dad wanting
to be a cop but instead he's a security guard at a mall. He has a
daughter who's mother left him once she got citizenship. Paul has a
crush on the new girl at the wig kiosk but of course he's conscience
about his weight. Then one day, some organized crooks take over the
mall and Blart is unaware. Once the crooks have hostages including
Blart's crush and his daughter then he decides to take things into his
own hands and save the mall.

At first I was terribly disappointed to see this was PG-13 because I
thought it was then going to be a little contrived potty/stupid humor
film for kids. Yes some stupid humor was there but in the best way. I
think this would be the perfect family or date movie (as it was for me)
so take a trip to comical fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked the "King of Queens" TV show, as many did. Especially
those who are tempted to watch this movie. Unless you are still a
teenager (or younger), you might not care about the lead role. But
while Kevin James seems to promise a few "belly laughs" (no pun
intended), the jokes are more miss than hit.

Which is the biggest problem of the movie. Not the story (what would
you expect from this really, story-wise), nor the actors in general
(they need better material to work with). The movie solely relies on
Kevin James and while that worked with the TV Show, it does not work
here. You will eventually get tired of the jokes, but it happens to
quickly.

So if you're not a Kevin James fan or like to be entertained in a
better way, than this isn't the movie for you
<|_=00=_|>
I am a man that enjoys a bad film. I have endured such films as Monster
Man, Man-Squito, and all three Maniac Cops. Paul Blart: Mall Cop had
zero redeeming qualities, and the part where he squirts hot sauce in
the eye of the main bad guy from 30 feet away is the single worst scene
in movie history...it actually made me angry. My roommate and I, who
can sit thru any and all Charles Bronson and Chuck Norris movie with
pleasure, feel the need to burn the Mall Cop DVD in order to cleanse
ourselves of the shame inflicted by Paul Blart. I think Lucifer himself
forces the likes of Adolf Hitler, Josef Stalin, and Ted Bundy to watch
this film confined in the gates of hell. If you are thinking about
watching this movie, do yourself a favor, and punch yourself in the
groin for an hour and a half instead.
