
i just got back from a pre-screening of this in Dallas, and i must say
i really enjoyed it. it seems like the whole audience enjoyed it as
well, the theatre was often filled with laughter throughout this
wonderful film.

i'm a fan of Sam Mendes' work, and his work excelled here in the realm
of comedy. John Krasinski and Maya Rudolph shared great chemistry as a
couple expecting their first child and trying to decide where to settle
down and raise their family. it's a bit of a coming-of- age story about
people who should have already come-of-age, as we travel across the
country along with them meeting quirky parents, friends, and old
schoolmates.

it's not all laughs, though. there are plenty of serious and
introspective moments and my hat is off to Ms. Rudolph, generally known
for her skills in comedy, for adding fine dramatic moments to her
character. in the end, this movie doesn't offer any solutions to life's
quirks, but it looks at them and even celebrates them.

it's not Mendes' best film, but it's a very enjoyable film with a great
cast and lots of laughs, and should appeal to a pretty wide audience.
it's a breath of fresh air from all of the Hollywood flash and crap
that will be slopped across theater screens this summer. go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
Just six months after introducing us to one of the most unlikable and
miserable movie couples viewers had ever seen in "Revolutionary Road",
director Sam Mendes takes us on a little detour from his usual
style/genre and allows us to meet one of the most likable on-screen
pairings in recent years with "Away We Go".

TV's John Krasinski is the amiable goof-ball and insurance-futures'
salesman Burt and SNL alum Maya Rudolph (in a quietly revelatory
performance built on her gift of perfectly timed facial expressions) is
his long-time girlfriend Verona who does illustrations for medical
textbooks. Suddenly they find themselves pregnant and searching for a
real home in this semi-autobiographical tale from scribes Dave Eggers
and Vendela Vida. The pair, untethered to their current situations,
decide to travel all over North America visiting family and friends so
that they might find that perfect spot to lay down roots. Fans of
Eggers' books should be pleased that the screenplay is imbued with his
popular brand of sharp humor mixed with diluted sentimentality. The
tale of these two thirty-somethings trying to do the right thing not
only for themselves but for their daughter-to-be is filled with humor
and warmth that allows us to relate to both the chaos around the
characters and their desire to shield their baby from it.

Under Mendes surprisingly laid-back director's hand, the material and
the performances rise above the clich√©s of the "she's having a baby!"
sub-genre of dramedies while successfully interweaving elements of
"discovering yourself on a road trip" indie flicks. Episodic and
sometimes meandering in nature, the film's acts range from
laugh-out-loud hilarious (including a scene-stealing Allison Janney
making a bid for worst mother of the year in grand comedic style) to
laughably absurd (witness Maggie Gyllenhaal as a self-righteous
alterna-mom with an unfounded hatred towards strollers) to unexpectedly
poignant (in an unexpected side-trip to Miami to help Burt's brother
through a crisis). You won't find any screamingly awful delivery room
scenes here, and while there is some semi-crude sexual humor, it's
reality-based instead of raunchy and never overshadows the film's
heart.

As with any Mendes' production, the cinematography (this time from
Ellen Kuras) is artistically sound and serves as the perfect place for
Mendes to paint his details. When the director uses a steady tracking
shot moving through the passengers on a plane in mid-flight to focus in
on the sun's hazy golden light coming through the windows highlighting
the faces of our two stars sitting side-by-side, you can see Burt and
Verona unified in a yearning pensive loneliness that makes you
instantly root for their success. The promise of that scene is
wonderfully fulfilled in the closing act (the details of which I will
not divulge) which is probably the most hopeful denouement --
beautifully understated and with minimal dialogue -- you will ever find
in a Mendes' film. As with anything in life, even in the most hopeful
of atmospheres there is still some uncertainty, but if we're lucky,
we'll see the talented Maya Rudolph in more lead roles and Sam Mendes
will take time for more pleasant detours such as this.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Sam Mendes last movie showed a couple deteriorating right in
front of our eyes in "Revolutionary Road", and in a way he makes up for
that depressing slog with "Away We Go". The couple here are upstarts,
two people with a baby on the way who for the first time find
themselves wondering about where they fit in the world and what they'll
be like as parents. They're hopeful, but you can see the fear plastered
on their face. First time screenwriters (and husband and wife) Dave
Eggers and Vendela Vida waste no time in making them two identifiable
people, and in the way they survey life's odd, complicated, and
wonderful little moments, "Go" never fails at being a funny, thoughtful
and heartwarming little gem that you'll fall in love with.

John Krasinski (The Office) and Maya Rudolph (Saturday Night Live) play
Burt and Verona, a mid-thirties boyfriend-girlfriend (Verona has a
marriage issue) who get the shock of their lives when Verona gets
pregnant. Not only that but any roots they have in their little
Connecticut town are about to be uprooted because Burt's parents (a
funny Jeff Daniels and Catherine O'Hara) are moving to Belgium a month
before the baby is born. Having no reason to stay where they are, they
pack up and take a road trip, stopping anywhere they know they might
find a familiar face. Phoenix, Tucson, Madison, Montreal, and Miami are
all marked for a trial period as the two try to figure out who and what
they would like to raise their family around.

It's an odd blend of dealing with life's what-ifs and meeting a variety
of broad characters. Allison Janney is the funniest of the broad,
playing Verona's former boss Lily, an abrasive alcoholic who enjoys
point-blank degrading her children and her crazy, paranoid husband,
nicely played by Jim Gaffigan. Maggie Gyllenhaal also shows up later on
as Burt's zen-like cousin who takes family closeness to a whole new
level, i.e creepy. Mendes balances scenes like these perfectly with the
richly written script. A scene between Verona and her sister (Carmen
Ejogo) where the ushering in of new life forces them to confront the
death of their parents, and another where Burt's brother (Paul
Schneider), whose wife has just abandoned him and their young daughter,
encourages Burt to think about the strength of his own bond with Verona
have a rare power that speaks to the importance of family. There is a
point where the interspersing of comedy and drama starts to get old but
luckily a third act of genuine lessons and happy mediums lead to some
of the movies best scenes.

And these are star-making turns from Krasinski and Rudolph. He has a
doofy charm that gets a couple good laughs but he also makes Burt a
loveably doting and comforting boyfriend there for Verona no matter
what. And Rudolph is a big surprise here as she turns in a performance
of maturity, vulnerability, and depth. This type of performance is a
long way from SNL. They are, for the most part, the straight-men to the
quirky characters and are called upon to spend most of the movie's
run-time just talking and they gel so well with each other that you
really don't even mind. Ellen Kuras' cinematography (rolling hills,
sunrises, planes moving across glass window panes) and Alexi Murdoch's
songs only increase the pleasure in this funny and effective indie
rom-com.

For more reviews, check out Leesmovieinfo.com
<|_=00=_|>
Away We Go (2009), directed by Sam Mendes, is a road movie with a
difference. Many road movies involve strangers met by the protagonist
as he or she travels from place to place. Away We Go sends the two main
characters into different locations, but all the people they meet are
people they already know, or think they know.

When Verona De Tessant (Maya Rudolph) learns that she is pregnant, the
question for her and her partner, Burt (John Krasinkski) is, Where do
we live after the baby is born? To answer the question, they travel
from distant (U.S. and Canadian) city to distant city. Mostly what they
find is disappointment and bad surprises.

Lily (Allison Janney), a former boss and friend, proves to be a
dysfunctional person raising a dysfunctional family. A "cousin," LN
(Maggie Gyllenhaal) gives new meaning to the words New Age. Verona's
sister Grace (Carmen Ejogo) has her own problems and heartaches.

There are jokes (and laughs) along the way, but, the trip gets more and
more discouraging (for them and us) as the movie goes along. What saves
Verona and Burt (and the movie) is the loving, caring, and realistic
relationship between the couple. They're both interesting, quirky, and
attractive people. We care for them, and we want their quest to
succeed.

Both Janney and Gyllenhaal are outstanding--as expected--although
Mendes has portrayed both their characters in an exaggerated,
over-the-top fashion. That's OK--we get the point, and the movie is a
work of fiction, not a documentary.

Maya Rudolph makes a smooth transition from TV (SNL) to film. She's not
drop-dead beautiful in the Hollywood style, which makes her more
attractive (to me) and more appropriate to the character she plays.

Burt's character is more problematic. He's supposed to be someone who
"sells insurance to insurance companies," but he looks and dresses more
like an assistant manager at a fast- food restaurant. (He goes to a job
interview dressed like someone who has picked out his clothing at a
thrift shop.) And, given his moderate success in business, and Verona's
equally moderate success as a medical illustrator, they're amazingly
casual about spending money. Are they using their life's savings? 

All in all, this is a movie worth seeing, but not likely to be on
anyone's list of all-time favorite movies. We saw it at the excellent
Little Theatre in Rochester, NY. It would also work well on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The style of Away We Go very much reminded me of a late 1960s/early
1970s film. I kept thinking of Harold and Maude or The Graduate, where
the lead characters learn about themselves as their relationships grow
and change. There were some characters that were so despicable that
they'll make you laugh and cringe at the same time. The disappointments
were done in a comedic way so the movie never drags. There were
introspective scenes along the journey where I thought a Cat Stevens
song would start playing. 

The main couple travel to various cities to find the perfect place to
raise their daughter and they meet an insane cast of characters along
the way. These people remind me of people I've actually met in real
life. A lot are parents with the best of intentions but what they are
doing is just plain wrong.

Maya Rudolph should be in more serious roles. She's an amazing actress.
She gives a very genuine performance, no overacting at all. As for John
Krasinski, he was very good too as the loving, supportive boyfriend.
There's a scene where he kept trying to say the right thing, but it
keeps coming out all wrong. I think any couple will be able to relate
to it when they see the film.

What makes this movie charming and deeper than a lot of romantic
comedies is that you already have an established couple that's very
much in love. This is usually where a romantic comedies ends, but Away
We Go probes the deeper question of what happens after you meet the
person of your dreams. Away We Go completely avoids the clich√© of boy
finds girl, boy loses girl, boy finds girl again.

I thought the music was okay, not the best, but the two men I was with
very much enjoyed it.

I don't want to give away too much, but if you like a quieter film with
a tone like the other movies I mentioned, you will enjoy this. If
you're a looking for just a mindless roadtrip, this is not the film for
you.

***I just read an article that the screenwriters were influenced by
early 1970s movies, especially Hal Ashby who directed such classics as
Being There and Harold and Maude. That explains why I kept thinking of
Cat Stevens. If you go to the FilmInFocus website there's a 6 page
interview with the screenwriters.***

Also, there's a comment that the film glorifies animal cruelty. The dog
races were chosen because it's the saddest place the screenwriters
could imagine to do the scene in Arizona. The context in the movie was
to show the misery of a place like that, not glorify it at all.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel that the film makes a great connection between love and the
experience of watching a movie. The end of this film is unbelievably
right, given the nature of human experience and its relationship to the
ideals that we construct in our heads. This movie captures the essence
of both love and art together. We are bound to both love and art by a
promise that we are pretty sure will be broken from time to time, just
like the promises that the two people in the movie make to each other.
But as human beings, we so much want the promise to come true that we
will make it again and again. Whenever I watch a movie, I renew my own
type of promise, one that I know will be broken, or at least will never
live up to my own expectations. The characters in this movie go through
the process of being broken by love (mostly through a sort of family
and place Odyssey) in order to realize that the promises we make to
each other can only be broken if we want them to be. We can love each
other until we stop believing, and we can bring ourselves to watch a
love story that keeps that same promise to the viewer. Sam Mendes has
made the only romantic comedy he could ever make as a director: one
that respects the viewer as well as the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard good things about this movie and went into it with high
hopes. Those hopes faded quickly. I love The Office. LOVE IT. But John
Krasinski cannot act. I found that out when I watched Away We Go. I can
only figure that John K. *is* Jim on The Office, IRL, and therefore
that character requires no acting ability.

The characters are supposed to be 33 and 34. Maya Rudolph looked 54 and
John K. looked 24. It was really distracting. I don't know what the
dumb get-up John's character had on--the awful beard, glasses from
1960, wild hair (but he was not a hippie--the movie has fun with making
fun of hippies later on)--was about. Worst of all, there is zero
chemistry between these two. They were not believable as a couple. They
may as well have been in separate rooms reading their lines to a wall
as far as their acting abilities and chemistry went. 

The couple mentions early in the movie that they realize they are a
couple of "f*uck-ups." After all, they have a cardboard window. In the
next scene, they are jetting across the US and Canada, staying in
hotels and buying groceries for their hosts--a couple of rich f*ck-ups
I guess. They are jetting across the US and Canada to find a place to
raise their child, with people who they will have a sense of family
with. So of course, they run to visit people they barely know, should
have known were absolutely obnoxious and in no way appropriate to have
around children, or people don't know at all. If this is their logic in
life, they really are a couple of f*ck-ups.

The "wedding vows" on the trampoline did it for me and that's when I
turned it off.
<|_=00=_|>
Maya Rudolph earns this movie a 10!!! I have to say though, I'm not
surprised at how brilliant she is. Even on SNL she was the queen of
understatement. So many good reviews have been written for this film
there's not much to add that hasn't already been stated beautifully. I
would only offer this one angle I haven't yet read. I took it that part
of their journey was to see old faces and places with their new,
about-to-be-parents, eyes. They already knew everyone they interacted
with in this film. And yet on this road trip, as soon-to-be-parents, it
was as though they were meeting them for the first time. And some of
what they encountered was pretty shocking, or funny, or sad, in ways
they hadn't picked up on before. 

This is a very sweet, kooky, funny, and moving story. Maya Rudolph
needs to do a lot more of this kind of work. She is BRILLIANT!!! 

Warning: the formula is a little repetitive... But not to the point of
diminishing it's qualities. There's a good reason for this. And the pay
off at the end justifies every minute you had to wait for it. See this
movie. There are few like it, and few as good.
<|_=00=_|>
Burt (John Krasinski) and Verona (Maya Rudolph), an unmarried but
devoted-to-each-other couple, are expecting a baby girl in three
months. They moved near Burt's parents (Jeff Daniels and Catherine
O'Hara) because they wanted to give their child loving relatives in
close proximity. Now, however, Burt's mom and dad announce that they
are fulfilling a lifelong dream of "moving to Belgium", where they will
be for the next two years. Huh. It does not appear that they are
thinking of the coming granddaughter, only of themselves. This throws
Burt and Verona into a frenzy of activity, for they want to select
another locale to call home, near friends or relatives, and there isn't
much time. Over the course of the next few weeks, the young couple
travel to Arizona, Wisconsin, Montreal, and Florida in search of a new
place to put down roots. Along the way, the pregnant twosome meet up
with a bizarre friend (Allison Janney), an "adopted cousin" (Maggie
Gyllenhaal), and other pals and relations. Will they find the perfect
place to raise their daughter? After viewing this winning movie, no one
can ever say that Sam Mendes does not have a softer side, which, to be
honest, was fairly absent in his works such as American Beauty or
Revolutionary Road. In fact, although Mendes is still wonderful at
showing the idiosyncrasies and flaws in the lives of average Americans,
this film's sweetness is its core asset. The cast is great, with
Krasinski and Rudolph near perfect as the loving couple, while Janney,
Daniels, O'Hara, and all of the lesser known cast members do a great
job as well. Gyllenhaal deserves special mention, for she looks
sensational and is a scream as the "new age" type mother. Naturally, it
is quite beautiful to go from one splendid venue to the next and the
costumes are lovely as well, especially Rudolph's maternity wardrobe.
As for the script, it is stylish, imaginative, and very funny. If you
love exceptional movies that more closely resemble coq au vin than
meatloaf in the world of films, here is one definitely for you to
savor. .
<|_=00=_|>
I love Sam Mendes; I'll say that now. What else do I love? Comedies
with indie quirk. And that leads me to Away We Go, a film that embodies
the genre completely as evidenced by the trailer with its awkward
laughs, (I stapled the itinerary to your coat? Really?), and "cool"
soundtrack, I must have absolutely loved it ¬Ö right? Wrong. I know I
should, I know that people all around me are showering it with praise,
but besides the final thirty minutes¬ó'Away to Montreal,' 'Away to
Miami,' and 'Home'¬óit is laboriously slow and uninteresting. Sure I
laughed, and stars John Krasinski and Maya Rudolph are fantastic, it's
just the story that never resonated with me. Until those last travels,
taking them places that included situations of true weight, we mostly
watch them reconnect with friends and family from the past to bring out
some cheap laughs and a whole lot of uncomfortable. If you thought
Allison Janney was quite the character in the trailer, just wait until
the crazy hijinks leave her mouth in unedited glory, you may just
change your mind.

Burt and Verona, (Krasinski and Rudolph), are a couple in their
mid-thirties, unmarried and pregnant with their first child. They have
moved to Burt's hometown in order to be by his parents, who have
offered to help, (her folks passed on a decade earlier). Living in a
trailer, doing mostly freelance work, and declaring their love for each
other every second of the day¬óthey are quite the cute couple¬óthe idea
that they have gone astray in life becomes one that sets them on a
cross country journey to find a new place to call home. The fact that
the two people they thought they could count on moving to Antwerp for
two years definitely expedited that decision. So, they are off to
Phoenix, Tucson, Madison, and Montreal to see where is best to raise
their unborn daughter, all locales with people they know, an already
active support group to help jumpstart their new life. The film is not
about the baby though, nor how the two try to learn how to be good
parents, despite the plethora of parenting advice thrown their way.
Instead it is a tale about two lost souls that have each other with no
other ties tethering them anywhere. It's a journey for them to discover
that home is wherever the other is, none of the other static means a
thing.

Like any cathartic spiritual journey, there must be a series of stops
along the way, showing them how bad life can be with wrong decisions
and lies. There is the couple that doesn't really love each other, an
indifferent malaise that has trickled down to their children; parents
that have the opportunity to be selfish and finally live for
themselves, no matter if their grandchild will be born the month after;
a kooky family following the three S's in life, resulting in a hippy
lifestyle that makes them so self-important and bourgeois despite
"hating" all that that label brings with it; and a pair of old college
friends, unable to conceive, with a slew of adopted kids in a loving
and censored lifestyle. A lot of the antics dealing with these clich√©s
bring some solid humor, but even more supply forced situations that
lead nowhere except for empty laughs leaving an unsatisfying taste in
your mouth. Maggie Gyllenhaal's LN, (yes that's her name), and Josh
Hamilton's Roderick and so over-written and stereotypical that I
wondered why it took so long for our "heroes" to realize how vapid they
were. And what is with the five-year-old breastfeeding? Talk about
unnecessary shock value. I did like the stroller bit at the end of the
sequence, however, so it wasn't all bad.

Kudos to Rudolph and Krasinski for really breathing some life in their
roles, though, embodying the affliction that is the thirty-something
crisis of being an adult. They react to the situations thrown their way
with consistency to character and end up in the place they had been
working towards all along. Why they had to endure so much overwrought
comedy before reaching that point, I do not know, especially since the
trip to Montreal and unfortunate visit to Miami are all that were
needed to get them opened up to where they end. Maybe Verona's sister,
played by Carmen Ejogo, helps the cause too, but no one else. All
others become filler to pad out the story and trick the audience into
thinking something relevant occurred since they laughed.

Miami contained the phenomenal Paul Schneider with virtually an
extended monologue about how his wife has changed their family's lives
forever. It's a strong performance that shows Krasinski what it means
to be a parent and how having his girlfriend by his side is the most
important thing to him. As for Montreal, the Garnetts, (Chris Messina
and Melanie Lynskey), expose our leads to the fragility of existence
and the many definitions of what family is. In a very touching scene,
moreso because of its amateur night pole-dancing locale, we get two
powerful performances and a nice metaphor comparing love with syrup.
After our introduction to the Garnetts, the end result surprises a bit,
but with total clarity and understanding of where they are coming from.
And the final segment, 'Home,' is just the perfect bookend to the tale,
leading the soon-to-be parents and us to paradise. Why, oh why did this
final third have to be attached to such trite frivolity?
