
"Big Eyes" was nominated under Comedy & Musical category during the
last Golden Globe Awards. Lead actress Amy Adams even won the Best
Actress prize for starring in it. While I was watching this film
though, it turned out to be furthest from what I had in mind for a
comedy. The topic of this film was actually disturbing and depressing.
However, being a Tim Burton film, there was certainly dark humor to be
had.

This film is a biopic of 1950s novelty pop artist Margaret Keane
(formerly Ulbrich, nee Hawkins). She developed a series of haunting
acrylic paintings of kids with big dark round eyes. Walter Keane, her
rascal salesman of a husband, took advantage of the rising popularity
of her paintings. He claimed and mass-marketed them as his own. 

Meanwhile, timid Margaret was forced to conform to his web of lies. She
was locked in her workroom in their home to paint even more Big Eyes,
away from the prying eyes of the public, and even her own daughter.
Will Margaret be able to break free from the prison she has trapped
herself into?

Amy Adams quietly carried this film capably on her shoulders. There was
nothing funny about what she had to do here as Margaret. Her character
was the victim of a most cruel crime. Her husband stole not only her
art, but also her confidence, and her very freedom. Adams played a weak
character, but as an actress, Adams was anything but. With her wise
underplaying, Adams successfully won our empathy and compassion for her
difficult plight.

Christoph Waltz, on the other hand, was over-the-top, one-dimensional,
practically cartoonish, as the manipulative con-man Walter. From his
very first scene, you already knew this smooth-talking guy was up to no
good. Up to his very last scene in that courtroom, Waltz's Walter was a
manic caricature, never really coming across as a real person at all.
This may well Tim Burton's direction in play, as this character Walter
was the source of most of this film's black humor. Waltz's fiery
interaction with Terence Stamp's harsh NY Times art critic character is
most memorable as well.

This film's narrative was simple and straightforward. Yet because of
Amy Adams' riveting and heart-rending performance, we will be held
until the compelling end. The technical aspects of the film,
particularly the pastel color palette of the photography, as well as
the period production design, costumes and makeup, all contribute to
the overall charming look and nostalgic feel of the film as a whole.
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big fan of Tim Burton and with his latest "Big Eyes" it clearly
is not typical Tim Burton it's more of a serious tone and manner it's
different from comic book tales and animation of the dark senses and
world of Tim. This film is actually a true take on the life and times
of female painter Margaret Keane as it's a true tale of discovery, fate
and getting to know your world thru the eyes of art. Set in the 1950's
California Margaret Keane(Amy Adams)is a single mother who decides to
set out on her own as her talents of the brush and drawing is her only
hope to earn her bucks for her and her daughter. Upon meeting
Walter(Christoph Waltz)a sharp and arrogant know it all showman type,
it's under the spell that Margaret soon becomes Mrs. Keane. And success
and fame and public notice comes from the couples paintings only the
Mr. takes all the credit! This film becomes a legal dispute as who is
claiming the work is in question yet you as the viewer know who's best
at the brush! Overall nice little sentimental film from Tim it's
different yet that's what makes a director and a film work that's a
different take that appeals to the big eyes of viewers!
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton's touching dramatization of the relationship of Margaret and
Walter Keane almost works but somehow the dramatic arc seems arbitrary
and we must accept the developments in their story as much from what
the characters announce about themselves as from what we see enacted
emotionally. Essentially, the husband is what we might call a
pathological liar and the wife is one of the most gullible and trusting
people who ever lived. 

The shy, self-effacing art school graduate Margaret Ulbrich specialized
in painting portraits of children with big, sad eyes which she would
sell at street fairs for pocket change. When she walked out on her
husband in 1958 to make a new life for herself and her daughter in San
Francisco, she met and married the aggressive Walter Keane, a real
estate broker who pretended to be a Sunday painter but was actually a
plagiarist with marketing skills who took over the marketing of
Margaret's works and sold them under his own name, first on canvas and
then as mass produced posters, becoming a well-known purveyor of
mid-20th-century kitsch who, as his character claims in the film,
inspired Andy Warhol. 

Amy Adams is appropriately choked up and tremulous as Margaret but
Christoph Waltz is an odd choice for Walter. For starters, the
character is as American as the Great Plains but Waltz cannot entirely
obliterate his Austrian accent; it colors his every utterance. Then,
his theatrical mannerisms make him seem more like someone with Multiple
Personality Disorder than a mere Jekyll-and-Hyde, as his wife describes
him at one point. Waltz entertains us, and we are conscious that we are
seeing a bravura performance, but we are not getting the human being
named Walter Keane.

Burton makes very good use of the singularly appealing Terence Stamp as
John Canaday, a highbrow New York Times art critic who lambasts the
Keane oeuvre in print, leading to a confrontation at a cocktail party Â–
a fire and ice moment and a high point of the film.

The film leaves a touching, but light impression, much like the
big-eyed paintings at its center.
<|_=00=_|>
Charming, but uneven, entertaining yet unsatisfying, "Big Eyes"
definitely does not come into the category of great or important true
story movies. It is clearly a change of style for Tim Burton (if is
very relieving not to see Johhny Depp acting all weird), but even
though the time at the theater doesn't in any way feel wasted or
boring, instead quite pleasant, the movie is too chaotic and quirky for
it to be taken seriously in any way.

A premise that has lots of potential is partially wasted in aimless
scenes or in repetitiveness. The film doesn't really make a point about
anything and has way too much flashy stuff to feel grounded in any way.
There would be nothing wrong there, but the fact that in it's uneven
tone there seems to emerge a will to give an accurate and worthy
recounting of these events makes so much of the drama feel out of
nowhere. Storytelling isn't exactly where the movie succeeds. The
courtroom scenes are definitely the weakest of all and made me mad
multiple times because of their absolute preposterousness.

Anyways, the film is built around a strong enough cast, photography,
premise, writing and design that it would be hard to get bored in
anyway. The pace is fluent enough and the duration of the film is just
about right for the content it presents. I wanted to like this more and
see the story be given a better portrayal, but in no way I could say
"Big Eyes" was a failure.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Big Eyes" (2014) is more of good feel comedy drama then a serious
biography drama as it's genre indicates. Yes, it is based on a very
true story, but this is not a typical biopic by any means. It's a
"light" and easy movie, with some great performances by both leads,
tight pacing, very nice writing and directing. No wonder that it was
mentioned in an Comedy or Musical categories at Golden Globes and not
in motion picture drama.

Overall, this is true very well made biography drama about some
painters and frauds. Won't going to spoil anything, just going to say
that i was very surprised by the ending when i find out that this
actually happen, well, probably not word by word but the outcome did
happen actually how it was portrait in the movie. This is a very fine
picture from legendary director Tim Burton, and safe to say that this
is his best movie in years simply by not being "a Tim Burton's" movie
as we know them. This small budget picture (in terms of other's
T.Burton's flicks) actually is much more lovely and intimate then his
recent works. I will go even so far and say that i haven't enjoy his
movie so much since 1999's "Sleepy Hollow".
<|_=00=_|>
Christoph Waltz steals the show in Big Eyes, Tim Burton's whimsical
tale of an artist and a scandal set in the transporting setting of
California in the 60's.

The story of Big Eyes is something straight out of the movies, but no,
the tale of Margaret Keane and her artistry is based on fact and real
life.

Tim Burton's Big Eyes is a dramatic narrative of Margaret Keane, the
painter, mother and wife. Having left her husband, with daughter in
tow, she seeks a new beginning in California. While there, she hopes to
make a living through her art and subsequently meets and marries a man
named Walter. Trying to navigate the art world and make a living, her
husband claims credit for her artwork which eventually becomes highly
profitable. Burton focuses on the awakening of Keane as an artist and
to her husband's shortcomings and the legal difficulties in claiming
ownership of her work.

Margaret Keane's life is a fascinating and near unbelievable one. And
much of Big Eyes' success as a film rests comfortably on that very
story. Well, Big Eyes rests on the story of Keane and on Christoph
Waltz's immeasurable charm in his performance as Walter Keane.

The sad big eyed children made commercially famous by Keane are
uniquely peculiar. Stylistically, it was only right that Tim Burton
should direct a film about the painter. It is apparent that Big Eyes is
a Burton film; however, Tim Burton subdues his style substantially so
that the narrative of this marvelous woman can take center stage.
Creatively, this is a refreshing departure for the director.

The Big Eyes movie parallels the artwork of Margaret Keane in an
unintentional manner. Margaret Keane was able to look at a person and
capture their essence and then put it on canvas with her own twist
through large sad eyes. Similarly, Tim Burton takes the core elements
of Keane's life and translates it to film with his own fanciful
creative liberties. Though everything is in the movie adaptation of Big
Eyes, it lacks substance and heart to connect with the audience to have
a lasting impression.

Please check out our WEBSITE for all the reviews of recent releases and
awards contenders.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton has crafted quite a reputation as a director of the surreal
and the macabre. In his films, he conjures up dark, Gothic images of
death and despair, but suffuses them with his special brand of
bittersweet magic and whimsy. On the surface, Big Eyes is right up his
alley - this true story of the fiercest and most outrageous copyright
battle in art history centres on a series of big-eyed waifs, almost
ghostly figures of hope and horror that fit perfectly into Burton's
aesthetic. And yet, barring a few scenes, the final film is curiously
characterless: a competently-made, shrewdly- cast biopic that never
quite troubles the heart or spirit the way Burton's films can do.

Margaret (Amy Adams) is trying to scrape together a living for herself
and her young daughter when she meets Walter Keane (Christoph Waltz), a
charismatic real-estate broker who would rather make a name for himself
as an artist. He offers her a home, love and financial security, and
she quite happily takes his surname as her own. Once they are married,
Walter keeps trying to break into the notoriously snobby art world,
selling his own Parisian landscapes and Margaret's portraits of wistful
young girls with enormous eyes. But it's her art - simply signed as
'Keane' - that grabs the attention and, as one white lie leads to
another, Margaret suddenly finds herself shoved into the background.
Walter has taken credit for her work, and is well on his way to
transforming it into a global phenomenon.

There are many big ideas swirling around in Big Eyes: art, deceit,
integrity, commercialism and love are shaken liberally and stirred
through with deeper issues of sexism and psychological abuse. This
comes through pretty well in the film, which paints a chilling picture
of Margaret's enforced anonymity. As her husband delights in dominating
newpaper headlines and picking fights with famed art critics like John
Canaday (Terence Stamp), she fades almost literally into the background
- creating ever more pieces of art for him in the solitude of her attic
studio, lying even to her daughter about her life's work. The film also
draws a canny, subtle distinction between the artist and the
businessman: Walter may not be much of the former, but his skills as
the latter are what drag Margaret's work from county fairs onto the
international stage.

Through it all, Burton exercises a light - almost impersonal - touch.
He scatters a few scenes into the film that hint at his trademark
film-making style: Margaret bumps into a crass supermarket display of
her art, and suddenly everyone around her sports the limpid, haunting
eyes of the waifs no one knows are hers. But, for the most part, Burton
keeps himself out of the proceedings. It's proof that he can create
nightmares on a more subtle and realistic level, capturing the darker
side of life as it can be rather than as he imagines it. Occasionally,
however, the film begs the question whether he should - it's stuffy and
dry, never quite engaging either the heart or the imagination.

That's through no fault of his cast. Adams anchors Big Eyes with an
astounding portrayal of a complex woman: one who's willing to cast off
the chains of her first marriage, only to wind up tangled in the snare
of another. It would be easy to play Margaret as a victim, but Adams
finds the bitter strength in someone who must endure untold torment in
a world and home that constantly remind her she's too weak to succeed
on her own. Waltz's performance, on the other hand, is puzzling - he
plays Walter in the constant key of manic, right from the start, so
that the character's smooth, smug charm is all you ever see of the man.
There is something undeniably delicious, though, about Waltz's Walter
when the cracks begin to show: he simmers his way into a kind of
monstrous madness, which lends both drama and humour to the proceedings
when Margaret finally brings her claim to court.

On the evidence of Big Eyes, there's hope yet for Burton if he would
like to switch to making more literal films. He unearths plenty of
smart, insightful tension in this troubled marriage, a partnership on
unequal terms that becomes less emotional and more financial by the
day. But the film also stumbles along at points, bled dry when it
should radiate colour and emotion. It's hard to shake the feeling, too,
that Waltz seems to be under the impression that he's in a more
old-school, over-the-top Burton production. It's at these moments, in
particular, that one might long for a splash of Burton's own
personality - the chance to look at this world, this story and these
people through his eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
As an art lover I enjoyed Big Eyes because it exposes some the
complexity of inspiration and the creation of art. Big Eyes as the
title shows is about the Big Eyes paintings. But it also has the theme
of how strong women can overcome any challenge. In the 1950s it was
unimaginable for a woman to set her own course. The main character
leaves her husband and takes her child only to fall for a smooth talker
who takes credit for her art. All is OK, until she discovers she wants
to grow and not be hidden in the darkness. Along the way she uses the
art as a means to expose herself and share to the world how the eyes
are windows to the soul.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this with Mom on a Netflix disc. We both were enthralled
by this true story of painter Margaret Keane (Amy Adams) whose defining
feature is the big eyes of her subjects and hubby Walter Keane
(Christoph Waltz) who publicly takes credit for her work for years. It
takes place from the late '50s through the '60s and partly seems a
comment on how stifled Mrs. Keane felt not being the one getting
recognition for her work and the crises that created between her and
her husband, not to mention her daughter who was often the subject for
the paintings. Tim Burton seems the right director for this film
especially when he has Margaret dreaming or during the climatic
courtroom scenes. The light and dark colors also contribute to the
period atmosphere to pretty compelling effect. While I liked many of
the supporting characters, I had to admit I was a bit disappointed by
the one portrayed by Krysten Ritter as I half thought she'd play more
in the way things turned out in the film than she did. Still, Big Eyes
was mostly enjoyable enough the way it was told. P.S. I had also
watched a vintage interview with the real Walter Keane on Merv Griffin
on YouTube in which he seemed to flirt with a female guest there. (The
cad!) Then I saw a couple of interviews on YT with the real Margaret
Keane on Mike Douglas' shows-one in Hawaii and one with Shirley Temple
whose child portrait Ms. Keane painted for her-and her Southern charm
shone through immensely!
<|_=00=_|>
I was stuck with this movie because it was the only one that fit my
schedule. I knew nothing of the plot. The beginning credits run. Amy
Adams! Always a great actress. Tim Burton the director. This could be
good! A good beginning to the movie. The time period is portrayed in
realistic fashion. The heroine, a painter, has a difficult life. She
leaves her husband. A courageous move for the time period.

She has to start from scratch in a new city. She meets a fellow
painter. He appears to be her soul mate. He is an interesting
character. He promotes her career. They get married. Interesting
process. Colorful supporting characters, including Terrance Stamp.

The story stalls along the way. The punch to the story is the heroine's
resentment that her husband takes credit for her paintings. She creates
the paintings for him. He claims them as his own. Although he is
presented as a strong-willed character, she does not have the guts to
tell him to stop. She hides the secret for years. Even from her
daughter! (yawn ...) Will she get the guts to stop the fraud? I could
not have cared less by the time the issue was resolved. Near the end,
there is a big court scene with her husband suddenly acting like he is
in "Trial and Error," the comedy with Jeff Daniels and Michael
Richards. Although I am sure the writers thought the court scene was
clever and funny, the audience I was with sat in stunned silence. When
she outs her husband in the national news, her daughter is proud. We
are supposed to be emotionally invested. I was bored beyond all belief.
I felt manipulated. In the end, the heroine is not a sympathetic
character. The supporting actors are more interesting. Would never want
to see this movie again. Good style. Good characters. No plot for the
characters to shine.
