
I just wanted to comment on how completely ridiculous it is that grown
people and older teenagers are commenting on how stupid, obnoxious,
childish, un-funny, etc this movie was. I am a mother of 5 children,
ages 12 to 2. My 3 daughters are 11 and two 9 year olds. They LOVED
this movie and laughed their little butts off the whole time. Granted,
there were MANY parts of the movie where I was bored to tears and I
actually played a few games on my iPod touch I'd brought along...but
AGAIN, this movie wasn't made FOR ME. IT WAS MADE FOR SMALL CHILDREN.
And it really wasn't THAT bad. I mean, come on. We've all been watching
Disney movies forever now, haven't we? Like you can't figure out who
will die, who will win, who will lose, who will kiss whom, etc...in ANY
Disney movie. Also, so she can't act?? Who cares? Because ALL of the
Disney actors these days can't act. They are wooden and pathetic. BUT
THE CHILDREN LIKE THEM. Stop being so judgmental about a movie that was
geared towards 7 to 10 year old little girls, OK? It's just silly.
<|_=00=_|>
I hope anyone who is the parent or is a relative of young girls will
overlook the negative review comments from what appear to be adult men.
I saw the movie today with my sister and her 8-year-old granddaughter.
We all loved it and we laughed a lot. Anyone who has a young girl,
fathers too, I think will enjoy this film. It's not going to win an
Oscar for acting but it sure gets my vote for light entertainment. I
liked the music from both Miley Cyrus and Taylor Swift; they have
different styles.

I'm am puzzled at the number of men who are reviewing a movie that is
designed for little girls. I selected a couple of the reviewers who
gave the movie one star and looked up some of their other reviews. I
one case, his favorite movie contained a lot of violence and bloodshed.

At any rate, I give it an eight because it successfully did what it set
out to do. That is to let a lot of little girls and their loved ones
have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
No, Really.

The incredible lack of quality in this film is not only intensified by
Miley Cyrus' lack of acting or singing skills, it is aggravated as the
entire movie resolves around her own "inner struggle"(huh). She is
incapable of delivering her lines with any sort of credibility or
patience whatsoever and has to rely on being loud and intense in order
to keep people's attention. That showcasts how her on-screen persona is
similar to her on-stage persona: In order to hide her obvious flaws in
talent, simply distracting the fandom (teenage girls usually between 6
and 13) with over exaggerated moves and expressions tends to do the
trick. Some people might call that "Being relatable" or "Having a stage
presence", I call that a plot to remain in the spotlight of 10 year old
girls (All while failing at "overgrowing her character" by dating a 21
year old underwear model and uploading half naked pictures of herself
in real life).

Billy Ray Cyrus, on the other hand, is the complete opposite of his
daughter. Instead of overstating every single line and facial
expression, he barely manages to pull them off with disdain. I swear to
you, his repertory of expressions and emotions is even smaller than the
list of his musical hits. 

The screenplay is just what one would expect from a Disney Channel
movie. You will not find a "Finding Nemo" or a "Wall-E" on this one,
just a simple "sweet tale" about a character struggling while finding
young love (Except that it fails at that too, given not only that the
main characters do not last together for long and that on the show the
Miley Stewart/Hannah Montana character changes boyfriends as fast as
she changes tampons). The love interest is so disgustingly clichéd that
you might just laugh at his fakeness. The jokes, as expected coming
from a Hannah Montana movie, are simply not funny at all. 

In fact, the entire movie gets so lame and predictable that it becomes
yet another proof of how -for everyone's sake- Disney Channel's writers
are ought to commit suicide.

Now on the music (Or lack thereof). The soundtrack is just what would
be expected by Hannah Montana: songs filled with self-references and
childish squabble. Although it meets its purpose of making small
children happy, it is nothing more than that.

The movie includes a ridiculous Macarena wannabe "dance song" which is
so incredibly complex that not even her fandom will replicate it
without a severe amount of effort (Were they actually expecting people
to dance the Howdown whatever? It's not like its simple, or easy for
that matter). 

Miley Cyrus and her dad are simply not talented at all in the musical
arena. The only song worth saving from this whole mess is The Climb,
which is actually deep and thought provoking. 

If you are not a tormented parent who is being absolutely threatened by
his daughter to go see this film with her, I implore you for your own
sake, take that money elsewhere and save yourself the nuisance. Because
in the end that is the only thing this is.
<|_=00=_|>
Miley Stewart's (Miley Cyrus) life is out of balance. Taken under the
wing of a gungho and glamorous publicist, Vita (Vanessa Williams),
Miley's letting Hannah begin to dominate her life. When she keeps
choosing Hannah over her commitments to family membersto say goodbye
to Jackson (Jason Earles) as he leaves for college, to attend Lilly's
(Emily Osment) long-anticipated sweet-16 party or her grandmother's
birthday celebrationit is clear Miley's beginning to forget why the
Hannah Montana secret was created in the first place.

When Hannah Montana ends up in a paparazzi-captured fight with Tyra
Banks over a pair of designer shoes, Miley's father (Billy Ray Cyrus)
quietly takes control. Having attempted to reason with her to no avail,
Robby Ray tricks Miley into thinking she's going to New York as Hannah
to perform when he's really taking her from Los Angeles back home to
Crowley Corners, Tennessee. Miley's double life becomes even more
complicated when she returns to Crowley Corners.

She discovers that a reporter has somehow managed to track Hannah
Montana to her hometown and is asking lots of questions of the locals.
She also meets up with an old childhood friend, Travis Brody (Lucas
Till), and soon finds herself in her first serious romance. When Miley
tries to impress Travis by telling him about her friend Hannah Montana,
she suddenly finds her alter ego enlisted in a concert fundraiser to
help save her hometown's pristine Crowley Meadows from developers. Once
again, having taken on more than she can handle, Miley has to call on
her best friend, Lilly, and ask her for help. When Lilly finally
arrives in Crowley Corners pretending to be Hannah Montana, events
really spin out of control. Hannah Montana 1/10
<|_=00=_|>
With my laptop with me, my sister and me decided to watch THE HANNAH
MONTANA MOVIE on you tube last night. Let me say I read a couple of
reviews about this movie saying how poor the movie is but since I am
fan, I figured it was worth a watch.

I'm not saying the film's bad because it isn't. I have seen all the
episodes of HANNAH MONTANA and I thought they were pretty funny and
cool. But I think most of the people who wrote bad comments just
watched the movie instead of switching over to Disney Channel and
figuring what HM was all about. So yeah.

OK lets start off with the good side...

1) I can say this film did a good job bringing all the episodes and
questions together pulling a great conclusion.

2) This film was like a whole new side for HANNAH MONTANA. Because you
just skip Malibu, and the regular irritating "audience laughs" we see
and hear in the HM episodes and go beyond the series, exploring Miley's
main hometown, where you she actually came from and the choices she has
to make.

3) The songs were top-notch my favourite ones were Hoedown Throwdown
and Lets Get Crazy I also liked some of the touching songs as well like
Crazier by Taylor Swift (it was good to see her in the movie!)
Butterfly Fly Away and The Climb and they also deliver an important
message too.

4) It kept a levelled balance of everything; from the laughs to the
moments. Because normally in the HM series you always get more off the
funny parts rather than the real moving parts.

5) It was good work from Disney! 

NOW THE BAD...

1) It was good but not great. I mean it wasn't something new from
Disney like bringing it to a whole new level. It just kept it's sort of
material that I normally expect from it. Although I said it was a whole
new side, it was still nothing special.

2) The performances were average, I'm not seeing any energy being
delivered. The end was a big moment in the movie but Cyrus sort of
ruined that with her acting, causing it to not work as "dramatic".
Sorry :( 

***SPOILERS AHEAD*** 

3) When Miley rips off her wig, she said she can still be Hannah if
everybody keeps the secret. Sure its her beloved hometown, but there's
got to be one bad person who wants all the fame and money and blow her
secret.

4) Jackson's alligator incident was careless and pointless. That has
got to be very serious damage! For a normal human being, you could have
needed brutal surgery and... well, the film sort of took it as a
practical joke!? 

5) Does Miley try to reveal she's Hannah Montana? To Travis, to that
reporter guy she always says, "I saved Hannah Montana's life surfing
and we're best friends!" Stupid! 

Yeah - there's more bads than goods! 

6) Now everybody knows shes "best friends" with Hannah Montana, why
dosen't anyone use their brain? There's lot of evidence, her face, that
voice, those dance moves? Yet nobody had the right mind to figure out
she is ACTUALLY Hannah Montana! 

7) Bad reporter turn into good reporter and not blow Miley's secret?
No, no, no! In real life any normal reporter would just blow her
secret! 

8) There wasn't much shock when Hannah revealed shes Miley. Also I
found the ending quite confusing, she just takes off her wig, sings and
the end!?

9) Unrealistic! 

10) One more thing... sometimes Miley sings like she's got a cold or
something and I'll admit she can't dance! 

Sorry for saying but true!

I have a few more bad comments but I'll just leave it there for now...

OK I'm not trying to say HANNAH MONTANA THE MOVIE is a bad film (like I
said!) But I say it's probably a mixed bag (despite the few extra bad
points I made) Although it was VERY close to four, I'd, at the very
least, give it a 5. (Just because I'm nice :P) 

OK movie overall. Not bad I guess :)

*****/********** stars 

(5/10 stars) 

~Kalendra
<|_=00=_|>
I think the idea of Hannah Montana as a movie was good, because it gave
a chance for different types of audience to show what they think of it,
and view it. so its for the young girls, and they probably love it, but
if your not a female or under 12 years old you wont appreciate it.
People are saying why rate it as a bad film because its not aimed at
adults, well, if only 12 year old girls rated this film, it wouldn't be
an accurate rating. Having people of all ages and backgrounds rate this
film, shows an actual portrayal of the quality of the film. The girl
has a good voice, but that doesn't make it a good film. personally i
don't like her music either, but i can appreciate talent when i see it.
unfortunately, the same doesn't go for the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate the show with a burning passion, but amazingly I hate the film
more. When Disney is not making classic animated films they are
shamelessly ripping off little girls with things like High School
Musical, The Jonas Brothers, and the worst of them all Hannah Montana.
Miley Cirus can't sing or act, but thanks to Disney she is a big star.
Why is the show successful? It gives girls a leader who they want to be
like. In front of them is a role model, but from behind the smoke and
mirrors is just a rip off scam to get parents to cough up money. It has
no charm, it has no soul, and the film makes that even more evident.
The jokes are terrible, the film is extremely cliché, none of the
actors can act, the songs make my ears bleed, and the plot is beyond
idiotic. Every last character I hate. Nobody is likable. Miley is a
bitch, her father is an awful actor, Miley's love interest is
uninteresting, Miley's best friend is stupid, and everyone else I don't
care at all about. The romance is like a stale piece of dry bread. You
don't feel any emotion. In fact the whole entire movie is like that. It
is stale, uninteresting, stupid, and soulless. It also throws in a F*CK
YOU of an ending moral. I'm not going to spoil it, but simply put they
made the worst moral I have ever seen. I mean you could have put a
commercial for the Hannah Motana series at the end, and it would have
the same exact thing as the moral. The music is also a thing to talk
about with this movie. Let me say that it is the equivalent to hearing
an innocent kitten getting slaughtered. There is few films that I have
watched that have made me start crying in pain screaming for it to end.
Congratualations movie because you have done it.

0 stars out of 4
<|_=00=_|>
I watched the series from when I was about 16 and I did enjoy it and I
was wanting to see this film as I thought it would also be good,
however when I have finally gotten around to watching it, its a total
disappointment. The plot is empty and unrealistic. I highly doubt that
thousands of people would never mention miley is in fact Hannah, and
also the 'romance' in the film was pathetic, the boy miley was with (I
can't even remember his name and I've just watched it) confused me as
to why he was annoyed at her for not telling him that she was Hannah.
The musical performances by Taylor Swift and fleetwood mac, although
great, were pointless, it would have made more sense for them to appear
at the end in the benefit concert. It would have been a decent end to
the series as it did end it as it seems the main question of her being
either miley of Hannah had been done, however the next series and
finale just totally had no relation to the film which I find highly
pointless. I liked Hannah Montana but the film was a let down. Only
worth a watch if you're totally bored and it happens to be on TV when
nothing else is.
<|_=00=_|>
Simple minds are easily amused I suppose. This movie went thought a
hole a lot and ended up back where it started. First of all the tag
line of the film "shes had the best of both worlds and now she has to
pick just one", do you think she did? No, she tired to but 4000
something people told her to Hanna Montana AFTER she said she didn't
want to do it any more and she agreed. Second poor Billy Ray, didn't
get anything, why, was it to hard to give him a girlfriend in the TV
show? Is that why Miley's selfishness brought his relationship to an
end? And I may not watch the show very much, but the character of Miley
was way out of character, she was never that spoiled. Among other
things, such as her break-up with her best friend (which they got back
together for no real reason other then the film needed it) to whatever
messed up relationship she had with her boyfriend. I would recommend
not seeing this unless your under the age of 10 and don't know what a
plot is, parents, I'm sorry for those of your who must watch it with
your young ones.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about a film like this? Well, I'll pose this question to
anyone who has seen the show. If Mr. Magoo barely has the legs for a
six minute cartoon (and he also got his own movie) how in the WORLD can
a one note concept like "Hannah Montana" sustain 100 minutes when it
can barely do it in a twenty minute show? I would give you a plot
summary but I can't because there is no story, I kid you not. This is
more or less a series of lame slapstick scenes loosely tied together
with a clichéd idea of an evil land developer who plans to level the
hometown of Miley Stewart who just happens to be visiting when all this
goes down.

Where do I begin? Well, for starters the movie was shot in a very lousy
way. The extreme close-ups dilute most of the slapstick action which in
of itself is just as desperate as it is on the show. Also, we get one
too many closeups of Miley Cyrus's face and thus, her distracting piano
teeth. On top of all that, there are several shots done in slow motion
for no apparent reason. I guess the filmmakers wanted to be "artsy".

The cast is wasted and I do mean wasted! Barry Bostwick is useless in a
throwaway role, Tyra Banks makes a complete fool of herself and the
charming and talented Emily Osment is reduced to a recurring cameo
despite her getting second billing.

I'm a generous kind of guy, so I will give it this: the colors and film
stock at least give it the big screen look it needs and that is a
improvement over the tacky look of the show and I will admit I did get
a few mild laughs overall.

My consensus? This movie will thrill little girls and it is harmless
but it's quite a chore for anyone older.
