
I saw Sex Drive at a sneak preview presented by my university. It's a
seemingly typical teen sex comedy in the vein of Superbad meets Road
Trip. Zuckerman plays Ian, a young virgin with no luck with the ladies,
a crush on his childhood friend Felicia (Crew), a jerk of an older
brother (Marsden), and is best friends with an Austin Powers-esquire
Casanova by the name of Lance (Duke). On the internet, he poses as a
football player while courting a mysterious girl online. When the girl
invites him to go "all the way", he steals his brother's GTO and heads
to Knoxville with Felicia and Lance. Ian's character has the usual
nerdy teen virgin-in-a-movie problems: falls for the wrong girls, takes
few risks, gets caught in embarrassing sexual situations. On the road
trip, they run into a series of hilarious, awkward, and weird
situations. And on the way, they discover that sex isn't the most
important thing, and that true love can be found in both odd and
familiar places.

It's not exactly stunningly original, but it's still a hilarious film.
The three leads do a pretty good job, Lance being a particularly funny
character. Marsden and Green steal the show in all the scenes they're
in, and all of the characters in the film are interesting, even if most
of them are stock characters. The script is also well-connected, with
most of the characters being connected to the larger plot, and combines
wit, ribaldry, and straight adult humor well. Every gag sequence gets
big laughs, and the comedy never slows down or dies out. The internet
cut-aways are especially hilarious supplements.

It's refreshing to see a genuinely adult comedy not coming from the
Apatow crew or McKay and Ferrell. Although it lacks star leads and
filmmakers and will probably drop under the radar, I definitely
recommend Sex Drive to anyone looking for a big laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
There are several people who say that critics don't know anything... I
find it funny in Hollywood how the best movies get rated terribly, and
have a 28% rating on rottentomatoes 'tomatometer'...

I saw the preview for Sex Drive on myspace. The preview started off as
a typical drive-across-the-country crazy-things-happen teen sex party
movie. About halfway into the trailer I found myself laughing... and
thinking "wow... something about this movie feels different. I think
it's going to be really good. I don't want to wait til October, I want
to watch it right now".

THREE WEEKS later three of my friends and I decided to see a last
minute movie- I looked up Sex Drive only to find that it was only
playing in one theater in our entire city (Denver) with only one
showtime! 10:30 was the only showtime, if this was any indication of
how the movie was I figured that it was going to be terrible- but I
remembered how much I enjoyed the preview and coerced my friends to go
see it. When we arrived the theater had only two other people in it,
both middle-aged males sitting separately by themselves. Again- not a
good sign...

The movie started out, and was instantly funny. We laughed, so did the
others. I thought, "ok, any movie can make people laugh... it's not
that hard a thing to do... let's see where this goes". The movie
continued on, and I found myself loving the plot. Loving the script.
Loving the (no-name) actors. Loving the directing. Loving the editing.
Loving everything about it. But that's just me... everyone has
different opinions. My three friends (who- might I mind you, have very
different senses of humor) all felt the exact same way. We were crying
at certain parts because we were laughing so hard. The other (two)
people in the theater were laughing hysterically as well. Just when I
thought it couldn't get any better- the movie turns to a love story,
and everything throughout the whole movie comes together.

It finally ended, and I, and my three friends, sat there, in awe, about
what we just saw. We left the theater and could not have been any
happier about our movie choice.

I returned home to instantly look up reviews online about what others
thought of this movie- and it blew my mind. The most terrible, awful
things were said, and the movie's gross domestic total? $8,402,485. A
BOMB.

I don't understand what it is people are looking for in a comedy. I
will agree with others and say- yes, this has been done before. Yes,
this movie is exactly what I thought it would be and what I wrote above
(a typical drive-across-the-country crazy-things-happen teen sex party
movie). Yes, this movie is predictable and familiar- but back to the
question- what is it people are looking for in a comedy? This movie had
every element of the $100,000,000+/movie American Pie series. Sex Drive
should of made AT LEAST half that much.

I saw College recently- NOW THIS is a movie that deserved it's abysmal
earnings of 4.5 million dollars. College's jokes were cheap, and
seemingly desperate, as if almost begging for a laugh. And once again-
yes, College made me (slightly) laugh- as I said before any comedy can-
but what it did not do was leave me with a feeling of sheer joy and
happiness that I took the time out of my night (and life) to watch it.
Sex Drive left me with this feeling.

I believed Sex Drive to be perfect. In every aspect. I will address
that, again, everyone's taste is different; everyone's brains interpret
things differently and because of this not everyone will find Sex Drive
to be perfect, in fact some may not find it funny it all- but I believe
THE MAJORITY of people (9 out of 10) will realize, upon DVD release and
word-of-mouth, that Sex Drive was the sleeper hit of 2008.

See this movie. It deserves much more money than it made and is well,
well worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
So there was a screening of Sex Drive at the theatre, so I thought
"what the hell?"

From the preview, I thought it could have gone one of three ways: 1. A
horrible attempt at an R-rated comedy in the same fashion of a pretty
good comedy a decade ago. (Like College tried for American Pie, and
failed) 2. A mediocre R-rated comedy with bits here and there. 3. A
movie that knows what it's going for and hits its mark. 

I would have to say, this movie is very close to #3. The movie isn't a
great movie, but it has no delusions on what it is. With the plot of a
guy driving cross state just to get some ass, there's not a lot of
directions you can go with it. The makers know this, so they make the
best of it. 

No real need to stress much on the story. It's simple, basic,
predictable. Bad? I wouldn't say that. The story is really more of a
momentum pusher than anything. It's really only there to prevent this
from being a series of jokes and gags just jumbled together. There's no
real big twist, a few lessons to be taken form it, but they all have
been done before. You can pretty much tell what's going to happen at
the end within the first 15 minutes. But the story isn't really the
important thing here, so no real points taken off for that.

All the actors are good. Clich√©d, yes, but they are likable. The goofy,
virgin lead guy who's trying to get some tail is played wonderfully by
Josh Zuckerman. Pulls it off flawlessly with all the awkwardness and
uncertainty that the character would have. Amanda Crew is also really
good at the "BFF" of Josh's character. The two have pretty good
chemistry, even with all their awkwardly close moments. It isn't
perfect, but being in some of those awkward situations, they were
(while pushed a bit) familiar.

A surprise is James Marsden. You may remember him as Cyclops from
X-Men, and he pulls off a great punk-ass older brother with a sense of
humor of his own. He is the typical ass hole older brother in these
kind of movies, but he pulls it over very well. Seth Green just seems
like he's cruising through the movie. I think he's got a lot of talent
and I knew even if the movie was going to be bad, he would provide a
good set of laughs. And as a sarcastic Amish engineer genius, he's just
fits in this movie seamlessly. 

But I have to give a lot of credit to Clark Duke. His first real movie.
He was a party extra in Superbad, if I'm not mistaken, the one who
called McLovin' a bad ass. Like Seth Green, he just seems to glide
through. He also has great chemistry with Josh Zuckerman. You can tell
the two of them just had a really good time together on this. He is the
suave ladies man who's guiding his pathetic best friend on his verge of
losing his virginity, while getting some action himself. He doesn't
have the look of the typical character, but he pulls it off
excellently. 

I put a lot of emphasis on the characters and actors. They were the
backbone of the movie. Not the story, but the characters. There's also
a hand full of supporting characters that do a good job at their parts,
and an unwelcome (well, for me it was unwelcome) appearance by Fall Out
Boy. 

There are few things worse than a comedy that's not funny. There have
been a serious excess of those as well. Dane Cook just had a movie a
few weeks ago, and that was a haggard piece of crap. I actually have to
say though, I laughed quite a bit in this movie. With the plot, there
are going to be quite a few of the sex jokes, involving spooge, penises
and homosexuality. Most of them though actually delivered. I can't
actually say there were too many flat moments with the jokes. Yes,
there were some, but the jokes that worked out-weighed those that
didn't. 

The climax got really over-the-top, but it did continue on with the
laughs, and was satisfying. The closure did take a bit longer than
necessary, but didn't drag. The movie was actually well paced and I was
never bored. 

This is no Superbad. It's not anywhere in that league. I walked out of
this movie saying "This is 2000's Road Trip." No, Road Trip wasn't a
masterpiece or one of those comedy powerhouses, but it was really good
for what it was going for. An over-the-top, R-rated comedy. See it with
a group of friends in the theatre. Definitely see it with a crowd, it
will probably make it that much more enjoyable. 3.75/5

Also, if you saw the trailer and had no interest, then you probably
would want to skip it. It has it's intended audience, and will probably
please those people and few others.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved every minute of this movie!! If you are looking for a non-stop
constantly-falling-out-of-your-seat film, then Sex Drive is perfect for
you. It is an instant teen comedy classic, in my books. James Mardsen
and Seth Green steals the show but up and coming actors: Josh Zuckerman
and Clark Duke did extremely well for themselves and prove themselves
to be the next big thing in the future. It is just about as funny than
Superbad and American Pie (1,2,3) and the plot of the movie was just so
simple and well-made. Hopefully, Sex Drive will be a teen classic in
the next few years because it's extremely funny, raunchy & has a little
bit of it's sweet side, too. Sex Drive is awesome and super
hilarious!!!
<|_=00=_|>
When I went to see Sex Drive I was half expecting most of the film to
be a continuous romp. Boy was I surprised.

It is packed with jokes from start to finish that should appeal to a
large number of people.

The level of the acting is one thing I will compliment. The actors seem
to be enjoying themselves (I wonder why? Ho Hum).

At some points I did feel that things where a little stupid such as a
couple of the sex scenes.

Sex Drive is a hilarious movie that can be throughly enjoyed by nearly
anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I mostly thought that all of the great comedies were done for the year
after the summer ended. This summer 2008 was truly a great time for
comedy with movies such as Step Brothers, Tropic Thunder, Pineapple
Express, etc. My thoughts were changed though when I saw this movie.
This was arguably in the same category as those movies. It is easily
one of the funniest movies of 2008. It really reminds you of road
movies in the late decade such as Road Trip, Euro Trip, etc. and
delivers the normal Superbad kind of content. Josh Zuckerman did a
really great job in his first starring role that I have seen him in.
Seth Green is in this as well and he nearly delivers a ton of laughs in
this movie. This is worth it for those who like the usual teen sex kind
of comedy.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so, Sex Drive: It's rude, it's certainly crude, but is it
actually in any way good? That's the question that faces many teenage
comedies of similar nature these days; so very often over the past
decade, the answer unfortunately has been a resounding and overwhelming
'no', but there always remains a select few reminders that even the
dumbest of comedies can still thrive upon just that. Sex Drive is
thankfully one of these films. It's outrageous and ridiculous in its
portrayal of teenage romance, filled with characters that speak more
broadly as caricature than real, definable human beings, but it all
works ¬ñfor the most part- in the favour of its silly, edgy routine.
Sure enough, it's a film that is far more likely to put a smile on the
younger faces of the audience, but that assessment goes without saying;
in short, there's some good fun to be had here, but only if you don't
mind the gross-out variants of humour and can appreciate the comedy on
its own merits. Expect anything more than that, and you'll be
disappointed.

For all intents and purposes, Sex Drive rarely ever strays far from the
road of teenage rom-coms. Taking place for the most part on the open
road where many comedians make brief cameo appearances as wacky
characters that bump into the main cast, the narrative that binds Sex
Drive's gags together is something that has been done to death. In this
vein, the movie can get tiresome¬óand at 110 minutes long, the biggest
flaw becomes the sometimes meandering, directionless pace of which
moves the plot along. Sure enough such sprawling pit-stops are usually
followed by a series of great, laugh out loud bursts of humour, but
this incessant need to fill up space needlessly makes Sex Drive feel
like a much longer drive than it actually is.

That being said, despite the formulated, familiar approach to this road
trip story, Anders and Morris do well to capitalise on the stronger
elements of such a narrative. The cameos never feel redundant and
fabricated; the trip itself gives way to some great comical situations;
and characters, believe it or not, actually grow (albeit, very slowly)
over the course of the journey. Furthermore, behind all the profane,
raunchy sex jokes and slapstick lies a straight forward, but
nevertheless engaging unrequited love story that doesn't feel tacked on
and as derivative as it plays out on page. It's a romance that never
quite takes off, but with decent characterisation and performances from
those involved, it's enough to give the story a warm core that pays out
with an ending befitting of your average genre movie.

To watch a movie like Sex Drive for the romance however, is a bit like
eating a hot dog for the bun; the real drawing power and force of
conviction that draws you into the surreal, ridiculous world displayed
here is through the characters, and the awkward, downright hilarious
jams they get themselves into. For the most part, the movie strikes
gold most when the comedy is just that¬ócharacter driven¬óand it's always
fun to watch lead character Ian (Josh Zuckerman) constantly get into
uncomfortable, cringe-inducing moments of embarrassment.

Of course, a lot of such moments succeed primarily upon the clever,
rat-a-tat, teenage colloquial dialogue that Anders and Morris
accentuate through their script, but a lot of it also comes down to the
performances of the cast who bring their characters to life vividly and
with shades of naturalism that brings out the script's modern, laid
back feel. As a result, Sex Drive all the more feels casual, and while
this again reinforces the slack attitude devoted to the meandering
pacing, such a style works well to give the movie a personality of its
own that reflects its characters.

In the end, although I had some qualms with the movie's runtime, and
it's sometimes unfocused approach to narrative, I nevertheless had fun
with what Sean Anders delivers here. It's a relentlessly convincing
picture with a youthful vision that many directors so often forget or
simply neglect to touch upon when making such movies. As a result, Sex
Drive will undoubtedly speak a lot clearer to younger audience members
than their older counterparts, but if you happen to be a part of that
demographic, then there is definitely some great laughs to be had here;
unabashedly immature and not afraid to get dirty, Sex Drive is a long
ride, but it's worth it in the end for the fun that it expels over that
trip.

- A review by Jamie Robert Ward (http://www.invocus.net)
<|_=00=_|>
In the suburb of Chicago, the eighteen year-old Ian (Josh Zuckerman) is
a naive and virgin teenager that is mocked by his homophobic brother
Rex (James Marsden) and his schoolmates; his best friends are Felicia
(Amanda Crew) and the wolf Lance (Clark Duke). When Ian meets a girl
called Tasty (Katrina Bowden) in Internet, he writes many lies about
himself; when she invites him to drive to Knoxville, Tennessee, to have
sex with her, Ian steals Rex's GTO Judge 1969 and travels with Lance
and Felicia. When they have trouble on the road with the car, the Amish
Ezekiel (Seth Green) offers to help them in his community. Lance meets
the Amish Mary (Alice Greczyn) and they fall in love for each other.
During their travel, Ian and Felicia discover that their feelings are
more than friendship and that Tasty is not who she told she is.

I am still laughing with "Sex Drive" since this movie is one of the
funniest comedies that I have recently seen. There are many gross
jokes, beautiful tits and girls and enjoyable characters. The cynical
Seth Green is simply hilarious in the role of a sympathetic Amish. The
scene when Ian is on the stage watching the dancers backstage while a
pregnant girl is telling her sad story is so funny that I needed to
stop the movie just to laugh. The last scene with Amanda Crew in the
end of the credits is also very funny, and I believe many people
probably lost this joke. If you are intellectual, or if you do not like
this type of movie, please do not spend your time to write bad reviews
in IMDb. I can not understand how a viewer can be surprised with the
content of a comedy that begins the way "Sex Drive" does. Amanda Crew,
Katrina Bowden, Alice Greczyn and all the female cast are incredibly
gorgeous. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Sex Drive"
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't bash "Sex Drive" in good faith. For a comedy of its type,
and all of you know what I mean by this coming of age sort of comedy,
it had a lot of slow parts that weren't funny, and needless
sentimentality that only served to slow the movie down. However, when
it was funny, it was super funny.

The ongoing gags were pretty notable, and performances were top notch,
notably by Seth Green as the sarcastic Amish guy. This may reign as
best sarcastic performance in any movie, ever. The energy between the
various performers was right and helped execute most of the gags
effectively. As I mentioned, I have complaints, but they are trivial.
If you want some goofy humor to eat popcorn to, give it a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
The name "Sex Drive" may awake false expectations for some viewers
prior to watching. The movies goes beyond the typical
"american-pie-like-comedy-style" and shows a sensitive development of
relationships which were not expected at the beginning. These
developments are combined with several road-trip experiences and
different (of course, also sexual) experiences during the trip. But the
film contains more than that, it has a nice plot, a stringent story and
very talented young actors. It is definitely not just a teenage-flick,
it is much more. 

Because despite some laughs, funny moments ( "amish") and unexpected
action - we experience beautiful acting of Amanda Crew who didn't
appear to me that intense in other movies before (like Final
Destination for example). She does not only look beautiful but acts in
a very authentic way, it seems to me like she enjoyed the set, the
whole idea of the movie, and the acting in it especially (though the
film had its rather crude moments at the beginning and in the
step-mother appearances).

I admit that this was one of the best teenage-road-movies I've seen in
the last decade. Not only because it shows the lifestyle everybody
would have loved to live in its teenage years, it also features both
laughs and unexpected developments in the end, thoughts about the
meaning of love and how important it is to trust feelings. 

A closer look at the character of Ian would have been great because
during the whole movie he seemed a bit inapproachable, and we don't get
an impression about his development of feelings towards Felicia, only
the other way round.

Summary: Funny movie with a very nice development in the end, and a
fascinating and breath-taking Amanda Crew - worth watching!
