
The saga of John du Pont is one of the more bizarre and tragic stories
from the mid-1990s. In Bennett Miller's dark and ominous Foxcatcher,
the episode is framed as a true-life Faustian Tale. But the story is
almost secondary to three outstanding dramatic performances -- two of
which are given by men who are better known for their work in other
genres.

Channing Tatum stars as Olympic wrestler Mark Schultz. When we first
meet him, he's already reached elite status by winning a gold medal.
But the achievement hasn't allowed him to escape the shadow of his
older brother, Dave, also a gold medalist. The younger Schultz wants
more. He wants to be the best. His past prize also doesn't pay the
bills. After training sessions, he's eating ramen noodles. All that
changes, however, with a phone call from du Pont (Steve Carell) who
offers to pay him and set him up in a first-class training facility on
his Pennsylvania estate.

Like Schultz, the multi-millionaire du Pont is a man in a seemingly
enviable position who nevertheless wants something greater. He has
family issues of his own, as he strives to please his disapproving
mother (Vanessa Redgrave). He hopes he can make her proud by leading a
team of wrestlers to gold in Seoul in 1988. But du Pont doesn't just
want to be a benefactor. Even though he's little more than an extremely
wealthy fan, with only a rudimentary knowledge of the sport, he wants
to be seen as a coach and mentor to his wrestlers. And so, when Dave
arrives to guide his brother, jealousy develops. Dave is everything du
Pont wishes he could be, but isn't. He's a great teacher, a great
leader. This leads to tension that slowly builds toward the story's
shocking climax as du Pont's demons emerge.

As du Pont, Carell is almost unrecognizable beneath make-up and
prosthetics. It's a quietly disturbing performance that will definitely
have audiences and critics seeing the comic talent in a new light.
Action/comedy star Tatum also has a breakthrough turn as the intense
and driven young Schultz who grows increasingly uncomfortable under du
Pont's subjugation. As a past Academy Award nominee, Mark Ruffalo's
exceptional portrayal of the older Schultz comes as less of a surprise.
But that doesn't make it any less notable or transformative. The
normally wiry Ruffalo packed on a lot of muscle to play Dave Schultz.
Here, he looks less like his Bruce Banner alter ego, and more like the
Hulk himself. All three performances are a study in the art of subtly.
This is a movie that derives drama from silent moments. In many key
scenes, it's the words that aren't said that speak volumes.

Foxcatcher features themes of control and manipulation, and wrestling
functions as an apt metaphor. It's that most primal of sports Â– one in
which you literally bend another person to your will. Ultimately
though, the movie is a story about two people who reach for greatness,
only to experience a great fall. And it's also the tale of a great man
caught in the middle. The saddest part is that it actually happened.
<|_=00=_|>
"Foxcatcher" is anything but a wrestling drama. Although based on the
true story of Olympic gold medalist Mark Schultz and his brief years of
training under multi-millionaire John du Pont, "Foxcatcher" expands
well beyond the wrestling ring into the minds of two men longing to
find greatness.

So those expecting anything close to director Bennett Miller's last
film, "Moneyball," should be forewarned. This is not a sports movie,
but a slow-burning character study (like Miller's first acclaimed film,
"Capote") in which the wrestling serves as the visual, physical
expression of the psychological struggle between the characters.

When we first meet Mark, played by Channing Tatum, whose versatility
continues to amaze, it's 1987 and he is living in the faded glory of
his 1984 gold medal. Despite his success, he is living a rather lonely
life and itching to accomplish more; his brother, Dave (Mark Ruffalo),
also won gold and Dave feels that leaves him with something to prove.
So when John du Pont (Steve Carell) contacts him about paying him to
come train at his top-notch facility on his family's estate, Foxcatcher
Farm, he sees his opportunity.

Mark and du Pont's philosophies about striving to be the best align,
and the two form a close, almost father-and-son bond, though more so
because they both feel pressure to live up to others' expectations. Du
Pont, in particular, wants to prove himself to his mother (Vanessa
Redgrave), who breeds world class horses and finds wrestling barbaric.
John's desperation, bottomless checkbook and unresolved family issues
make for a dangerous combination, and his relationship with Mark slowly
begins to change for the worse. Further complicating the matter is
Dave, the only man capable of saving Mark from his demanding
expectations of himself and whose coaching expertise intimidates du
Pont.

The often unspoken psychological warfare between the three (and,
perhaps most importantly, du Pont and his mother) is the driving force
of the story more than anything that actually happens on screen. Mark's
ups and downs as he competes at the '87 World Championships and '88
Olympic trials are symptomatic of his mental state and the state of his
relationship with the other men. As such, "Foxcatcher" is a long, at
times brooding film that can drag in spite of the brilliant character
development and internal drama.

E. Max Frye and Dan Futterman's script is quiet and doesn't have a lot
of big juicy moments for its actors to lean on, so the fact that Carell
is totally haunting and captivating in this role says a lot. Du Pont is
an incredibly complex character whose back story is mostly implied so
as to keep him as unpredictable as possible. Even with all the makeup
on, Carell gives the epitome of an understated performance, something
you would never dream possible from a guy who has made a career out of
big acting and abrasive characters. Undoubtedly some credit goes to
Miller, who has churned out acting nominations and wins for his
previous casts, and gets Carell and Tatum to pause and linger at all
the right moments.

With those two in transforming roles, it's easy to overlook Ruffalo
(who always seems to get overlooked). Dave is the comparison point for
both these men. He's a family man who is smart, has accomplished a lot
and knows what it truly means to work hard. Ruffalo brings his
trademark authenticity to his part as the "good guy" and does it so
well.

Even when it's too quiet and languishes, "Foxcatcher" is a fine piece
of cinema and Miller has established himself as a true auteur. It
certainly does not satisfy in the mainstream sense, but its purposeful
use of imagery, total avoidance of melodrama and magnifying glass on
the human condition make it an undeniably sharp and intelligent art
film to be sure.

~Steven C Thanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
<|_=00=_|>
Foxcatcher is a movie for those who value patience as a virtue. There
is not a lot of dialogue and not even a lot of wrestling (which is bold
for a movie centered around Olympic wrestlers) but rarely have I seen a
film that had a constant buildup of tension throughout. One phrase that
you will see a lot when reading about this film is that it is a "slow
burn" which is accurate. It makes you uncomfortable and anxious to the
point of frustration because you are constantly waiting for the other
shoe to drop.

The story centers around Olympic wrestler Mark Schultz (Channing Tatum)
an anti-social, brooding athlete who seems to be constantly living in
his older brother David's (Mark Ruffalo) shadow. David and Mark have
both won gold medals at the 1984 Olympics but more people are drawn to
David because he is warm, charismatic, and open...everything that Mark
is not. We watch Mark as he seems to go through life with a chip on his
soldier, trying to forge his own path without the help of his brother.
Mark receives a call from a representative of a John Du Pont (Steve
Carell) who wishes Mark to visit him on his Foxcatcher farm and propose
the idea of him and the entire USA wrestling team to make Foxcatcher
their official training facility with Du Pont bankrolling the entire
operation. From there, we watch an initial positive relationship sour
as the we learn more about Du Pont and his intentions.

The cast is lights out here. Tatum gives the performance of his career
in a dark turn as Mark and Ruffalo might score an Oscar nomination for
being the one ray of light as his older brother David, who only has the
best intentions for Mark and his future. It is Carell though, who
steals the show. You always read about how comedians, whom Carell is
more popularly known as, all have a "dark side" in them which is where
they get there comedy from that allows them to make shockingly
effective transition into drama (think Jim Carrey in "Truman Show" and
Robin Williams in "Insomnia") and he will go down as another prime
example of that here. Du Pont is a man of privilege who, like Mark, is
trying to find a way to make his mark on the world and seek the
approval of others. He is socially awkward, maybe even a coward and
uses his money and family "dynasty" as its referred to in the film, to
give him a sense of entitlement to gain respect from others.

From the point they meet we wonder why Mark would fall into a
relationship with Du Pont but we see they do share similarities in
terms of their personalities and both feeling the need to prove
themselves. So it's no surprise to see the relationship eventually sour
because in the fight to become the more relevant one, Du Pont will win
due to his already established social status and wealth. Du Pont is
always trying to seek the approval of his mother (Vanessa Redgrave),
who sees wrestling as a "low sport", and Du Pont tries to create this
deluded fantasy of what he is trying to do with this wrestling team to
please his mother. Du Pont calls himself a "coach" of the wrestling
team, when it seems he knows nothing about the sport, he claims his
athletes see him as a mentor and a father figure when in reality, he is
just the guy signing their checks. The tension comes to a head once
David gets involved and begins to see Du Pont for what he really is and
the climax catches you buy surprise and leaves you devastated. .

Director Bennett Miller has only made three films (Capote and Moneyball
the other two) but it's safe to say he is three for three with this
being his most ambitious work yet. Foxcatcher is the type of film that
has failed in the past due to its' modest pace but the performances
keep you engaged just enough to be blown away in the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Foxcatcher tells the fateful story of John Du Pont and the Olympic
winning Schultz brothers. Directed by Bennett Miller, Foxcatcher taps
into the psychology behind Du Pont, examining his psyche in the most
disturbing of fashions. Steve Carrel delivers a performance that many
will find hard to swallow. He is dry, he is awkward, and he is
completely insane. To keep it simple, Steve Carrel is absolutely
terrific and truly shows his range as an actor. It is an amazing
performance that is bound for Oscar glory. The other half to Carrel's
Du Pont is Channing Tatum as Mark Schultz. Tatum completely drowns into
his character, leading him to turn in a vicious, unapologetic
performance that is so perfectly executed that you will soon forget
that this is Channing Tatum. When he is on screen, he is Mark Schultz.
It is the best performance that Tatum has given in his career and
stands to grab a possible Best Suppoting Actor nod at this year's
Oscars. The voice of reason for both Mark and Du Pont lies in Dave
Schultz, played brilliantly by Mark Ruffalo. Dave serves as this
mediator in between Mark and Du Pont especially when their relationship
starts becoming more and more intense and violent. The rest of the cast
featuring Vannessa Redgrave and Anthony Michael Hall also turn in very
sound and great performances as well. As far as acting is concerned,
Foxcatcher is a hard film to beat. Every actor is on top of their game
here and it really shows how good of a director Bennet Miller is. He
takes a seemingly dry script and turns it into an emotional
roller-coaster by way of his actors. One scene in particular haunted me
involving a simple glare from Tatum's Mark Schultz as he peddles faster
and harder upon seeing Du Pont. That scene on paper isn't that
interesting but with Miller's uncanny ability to make even the simplest
scenes intricate and layered, it works and remains one of the more
memorable scenes from the film. The other highlight from this film has
to be the cinematography. Everything is filmed with a slight tint of
dread and gray, it creates the mood immediately and balances the story
perfectly. Overall, Foxcatcher is a great character study featuring top
notch performances that push this film into the top ten of the year
easily.
<|_=00=_|>
A film that takes its time presenting its case, Bennett Miller's
wickedly brutal "Foxcatcher" entices audiences to learn more about the
questions around us, and where they could lead. Seated firmly in the
center are a trio of dazzling performances from Channing Tatum, Steve
Carell, and Mark Ruffalo, all of which make a compelling case for their
career best works.

Written by Oscar-nominee Dan Futterman and E. Max Frye, "Foxcatcher"
tells the story of Mark Schultz (Tatum), an Olympic wrestler who
befriends billionaire John Du Pont (Carell) in the mid-1980's. Along
with his brother Dave (Ruffalo) and his wife Nancy (Sienna Miller),
that new relationship leads to unforeseen consequences.

At the core of this morality tale is Bennett Miller, the Oscar-
nominated director of "Capote" and "Moneyball." He allows"Foxcatcher"
to study its subjects, and give the audience an in-depth understanding
of all the motives involved. With the help of Cinematographer Greig
Fraser, and composer Rob Simonsen, the movie's melancholy atmosphere is
truly compelling. Miller's brilliance isn't in things he chooses to
show, but in the things he chooses not to. He draws out scenes that
offer so much to the narrative. There's still so much left on the table
that we do not know, which in itself, is perfectly acceptable. Life
never gives us all the answers we seek. Miller, Futterman, and Frye
understand this. Material like this calls to be made into a film. I'm
so glad that these three answered the call.

What Steve Carell achieves as John DuPont is not just a performance by
a full embodiment. With strength and precision, he understands DuPont,
a man with an extreme outlook on reality. Carell doesn't just ask us to
sympathize with John, between his awkward behavior and his constant
yearning to impress his family's legacy, he demands our understanding.
If I didn't already know about the film for the past two years, I
wouldn't have recognized him. His performance is completely focused and
profound. Looking at the way he carries himself through the film, you
are witnessing one of the purest creations of a character this year.
When he's not on-screen, you're secretly wishing he was.

When it comes to Channing Tatum, I have to admit that I never FULLY
understood the appeal. Discovered the young ferocious actor in Dito
Montiel's "A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints" nearly a decade ago, and
afterwards was only mildly entertained by his presence in films like
"21 Jump Street" and "Side Effects." What he does in Miller's film is
something beyond anything I could have ever thought he could do. Tatum
doesn't just do an imitation, he channels the inner workings of a man
desperate for more. His peculiarities are richly on display as he
yearns for a father figure outside of the shadow of his more successful
brother. He embraces the odd DuPont, against all logical instincts, but
you can see exactly why he would feel so compelled to do so. 

Mark Ruffalo gives Dave the ticks and beats of an original creation.
Picking at his beard (something I know all too well), constantly
engaging in team leadership, and hugging his younger brother whose more
of a son than anything. Ruffalo mounts himself on the perch of a loving
brother just trying to create success for himself and his family. This
is another solid outing for him. 

Co-star Vanessa Redgrave, as John's fragile mother, is marvelous in her
short scenes while Sienna Miller adds a needed dynamic to understanding
both Mark and Dave. The two women both offer compassion and balance.

"Foxcatcher" is terrifying, disturbing, and utterly engaging. A slowly
unraveled piece that is risky but pays off immensely. It's cautious yet
strictly well-defined as a character study. Like all great films with
great performances, its element of truth is plainly apparent. On the
gray-skied farm, we will get to know three interesting men, some of
which, we'll never truly understand.
<|_=00=_|>
BY RYAN C. SHOWERS

Hearing reactions from people who saw "Foxcatcher" made me instill a
mindset in myself to defend against the "slow pacing". (Feeling the
discomfort from a long running-time is a movie pet peeve of mine.)
However, my experience of "Foxcatcher" was largely different from most
everyone else who has discussed the film. I did not want to take my
eyes off the screen. The direction from Bennett Miller felt in tune
with the story and the characters in a mellow way. He built scenes at a
gradual pace, but each scene has a path and reach a distinctive point
of impact. Because "Foxcatcher" is so muted, it haunts with the uneasy
themes being explored in the screenplay and a deliberate reveal of
information in the directing.

The ominous representations of the real-life people by the actors
contribute substantially to the outcome of "Foxcatcher". Steve Carell
amazed me in his portrayal of John du Pont. It's not the most
expressive work of an actor this year, but it's certainly one of the
most potent. The comedic actor is transformative and in more ways than
the physical ones prompted by the make-up prosthetics, which visibly
add to the creation of the mysterious figure. Carell's eyes cut deep
into the viewer and sting like a sharp razor blade impaling the warmth
of your flesh.

"Foxcatcher" begins as Mark Shultz's story and continues into the
film's second act led by Channing Tatum's irate temperament. But the
closer the end of the film nears, du Pont begins to consume the story.
Carell's performance feels extraordinarily subtle as your start the
film, but as "Foxcatcher" endangers the viewer deeper into du Pont's
mind, the severity of Carell's performance begins permeate throughout
the picture. There's an eerie presence he creates, a torment that does
not internally leave you after watching it. (Not to suggest that du
Pont is evil, as understood in Miller's direction, there's an nuance of
tragedy that looms over the man that makes his story such a grave one
to experience.)

Mark Ruffalo's Dave Schultz becomes a driving figure in the last act,
along with Carell, as Tatum's importance begins to lessen. The simple,
small-town guy with a beacon of knowledge realized by Ruffalo is
impressive. Tatum also gives his most accomplished performance to date.

Bennett Miller steps back tonally to his work in somber "Capote" after
making the lighter (and forgettable) "Moneyball" in 2011. "Foxcatcher"
is in the same quality league as "Capote", but in film he has a
peculiar manner of creating the action of the plot. Some may say
"Foxatcher" contains too few and far between events in the narrative,
but I think Miller creates a drama palpable in the air of every scene,
and we, the audience, are parked in a burning tension for two hours.

"Foxcatcher" is a superb film that, as it sits in your mind, grows from
the seeds Miller plants in your head as you watch his detailed
recounting of events on the du Pont estate. It will disturb you with
its bleak vegetation and seduce your flames of darkness.

Grade: A-

* * * 1/2 / * * * *
<|_=00=_|>
Fox hunting is a bloody sport and in the case of Foxcatcher, so is
wrestling. You can hear the thud and almost feel the pain as heavily
muscled male bodies pound each other. It's almost like a ritual. John
DuPont, billionaire and unbalanced eccentric, offers a talented young
wrestler the kind of sponsorship that one can only dream of. Why then
does Mark Schultz, ensconced in a luxurious guest house with a
state-of-the-art training facility, feel so uneasy? Mr. DuPont, played
by Steve Carell as you've never seen him before, has some disquieting
qualities. I can't avoid thinking that if the characters in this movie,
and men in general, had been more articulate about their feelings, a
tragedy could have been avoided, but that is irrelevant. The ending of
this movie, based on a true story, was in the headlines some years
back. If you don't remember what happened, I won't spoil it for you.
<|_=00=_|>
My first night at the Stockholm Film Festival turned out really great
thanks to Foxcatcher. A movie I didn't expect much from, but it was in
fact one of the best movies of 2014. Foxcatcher is a movie that doesn't
have that much action and will surely disappoint those who loves
wrestling and wants to see fights. This is not a movie about the good
side of the sport, it's about the bad one we don't get to see when Hulk
Mania and The Rock performs nowadays.

The film is based upon a true story. Mark Schultz is an Olympic
wrestler. His relationship with his sponsor, John du Pont and his older
brother leads to very unlikely circumstances between both. John du Pont
turns out to be a bit different than the man he first seemed like.

What I first wondered when I read about the film was, "how could they
pick Channing Tatum for such a dramatic role? Isn't he that guy who
just shows off his abs so the girls can look at something?" Well, in
this movie Channing was someone completely different. He is superb as
Mark Schultz, I couldn't imagine anyone else playing him after seeing
this film. And this is partly what makes the film very watchable and
good. Steve Carell (who usually stars in sex comedies) also did an
amazing job as John du Pont. I could barely recognize him at first, and
forgot that it was him 10 minutes after he first appeared on the
screen. In the end, I also forgot what he looks like in real life.
Great job on the make up there!

The good performances is definitely what I enjoyed the most. I'm not
into wrestling, and Foxcatcher didn't really make me interested. It's a
very deterrent example of how some Olympic athletes are trained and
treated when they're not on TV. The movie will be out in theaters later
this month, and I suggest you to go watch it. If you're not a fan of
wrestling, that's even better. I don't like the sport but loved this
movie.

However, pick your theater carefully. Sadly, some people in front of me
waited to see Channing Tatum naked during the beginning. They were just
annoying, but quiet when they realized that they weren't watching a
teen comedy. Which was, around thirty minutes into the film. So I
didn't really mind! The movie is a bit over two hours long...
<|_=00=_|>
Foxcatcher is a 2014 American biographical drama film, directed by
Bennett Miller, starring Steve Carell, Channing Tatum, and Mark
Ruffalo. The screenplay was written by E. Max Frye and Dan Futterman.
It competed for the Palme d'Or in the main competition section at the
2014 Cannes Film Festival, where Miller won the Best Director Award.

The story of Olympic Wrestling Champion Mark Schultz and paranoid-
schizophrenic millionaire coach John du Pont, who murdered Schultz's
brother, Olympic Champion Dave Schultz in 1996.

The film has received acclaim from critics, with many praising the
performances of Steve Carell, Channing Tatum, and Mark Ruffalo. On
Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 'Certified Fresh' rating of 91%, based
on 45 reviews, with an average rating of 8.4/10. The site's critical
consensus reads, "A chilling true crime drama, Foxcatcher offers Steve
Carell, Mark Ruffalo and Channing Tatum a chance to shine - and all
three rise to the challenge". Metacritic gives the film a score of 91
out of 100, based on 11 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Justin
Chang of Variety praised the film, writing: "Steve Carell, Mark Ruffalo
and Channing Tatum give superb performances in Bennett Miller's
powerfully disturbing true-crime saga." Eric Kohn of Indiewire also
reacted positively to the film, with most of his praise going towards
Carell and Tatum's performances. Donald Clarke of The Irish Times
praised Bennett Miller's direction, saying that "he (Miller) hits his
stride with a stunning portrayal of psychopathy and moral decadence in
the unlikely environment of Olympic wrestling." Todd McCarthy of The
Hollywood Reporter praised Carell's performance calling it "career
changing". On the other hand, Budd Wilkins of Slant Magazine gave the
film a negative review and said that the film "offers us next to
nothing of utility or complexity about du Pont's pathology.

I'm not surprised this terrific decent movie has won 2 International
Awards.

See It With Your Kids!.There aren't any bad words or sex, just some
violence!.
<|_=00=_|>
Foxcatcher... a limp train wreck of a film, driven only by the tragedy
of the true story on which it's based, and no doubt geared to be hot at
the Oscars thanks to huge departures from typecasting for both Carrell
& Tatum. 

"Accuracy of events and characterizations be damned - we're making an
art movie here!" 

Let's summarize, shall we? Forrest Gump and his bearded brother,
Quasimodo, both won wrestling gold in the 84 Olympics. Their
relationship is somewhat strained, as Forrest feels second best. 1987,
we see Forrest poor and down on his luck, when mentally disturbed
narcissist, billionaire & self-appointed ace wrestling coach,
Montgomery Burns, invites Forrest over to his elaborate estate to
wrestle for him and assist in coaching his team in exchange for
boarding and big money. Forrest wins gold at the 87 World
championships, and fosters a twisted father/son relationship with Mr
Burns. 

Much homo-erotic bonding, drinking and drug use later, Mr Burns loses
his marbles, humiliates Forrest (who is now addicted to booze and
cocaine), and instead brings in Quasimodo as assistant coach, reducing
Forrest to wrestler status. Forrest cracks under the pressure, and
sucks at the 88 Olympics. Mr Burns grows envious of Quasimodo's
coaching prowess and success, as well as his efforts to protect
Forrest, regardless of poor performance. Forrest gets the boot & takes
up cage fighting, while Quasimodo stays behind and eventually gets
murdered by a slow-burning, envious Mr Burns.

Channing Tatum plays Mark Schulz, aka Forrest Gump - minus the good
humor and sunny disposition... instead replaced by an
overly-accentuated ape-walk and a constantly protruding forced
under-bite that obviously made it hard to speak. A shame that he had to
be portrayed in a mentally challenged, quasi-autistic fashion, when the
actual Mark Schulz is in fact a personable guy that had a 3.6 GPA in
high school.

Mark Ruffalo is Dave Schulz, aka Quasimodo - having packed on a few
pounds of muscle and managing to look exactly like David Cross, our
tragic hero is always hunched over and bow-legged, in a
morning-after-Brokeback-Mountain kind of way.

And finally, funny man Steve Carrell... John DuPont - who is portrayed
as Mr Burns with a speech impediment, an unhealthy love for guns, and a
thousand-yard-stare borne of the constant clamoring for his
aristocratic mother's affections & approval. His over-accentuated giant
nose sadly changes size and shape several times throughout the film.

Everyone else is just a face - added like an afterthought, with no real
interactions or discussions with the main characters.

It's got the whole "Faustian retelling, filled with belated guilted
patriotism for a fallen American sports champion" vibe about it - throw
in some men grappling, oddly shot scenes, men hugging, incredibly slow
dialog, men slapping each other's backs and shoulders and a score
filled with loads of melancholic piano during dramatic shots, and it's
easy to see how it was so loved by the Cannes crowd...

Personally though, I wanted to gouge out my eyes halfway through - the
film could have been around 40 minutes shorter were it not for the
dramatic artsy landscape / filmed through a window / mundane happenings
scenes and the frustratingly slow dialog.

The most entertaining bit during the entire 2-hour ordeal, was having a
chuckle at the snoring of the guy sitting behind me.

I went in expecting an epic sports drama of Warrior proportions, and
left depressed, wondering where it all went wrong.

Avoid this film like the plague.
