
Caught a screening of this movie in Salt Lake City. The Appalachian
Trail Conservancy put it on. What a fun movie, Nolte is great in it!! I
was quite surprised on how funny he was. Redford and Nolte make a good
team. About time a Bryson book got up on the big screen. I wonder how
much of an increase in foot traffic there will be on the AT after this
movie gets released. I'm sure next summer will be quite a bit busier.
If a movie makes me want to go to the location/s it takes place I count
that as a great movie. If you are a fan of the book, actors, hiking,
nature or have hiked the AT you should enjoy this one. Well worth the
visit to the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, this movie isn't great art, but it's delightful, funny, filled
with veteran actors (Nick Nolte, Robert Redford, Mary Steenburgen, and
Emma Thompson who, as usual, is absolutely perfect for the part she
plays. I loved it because I'm not a hiker, and I truly felt every bit
of resistance that Nolte's character expresses to being out in nature
while on foot. There are many, many lines that made me laugh out loud.
I am not a laugh-out-loud person generally and I didn't read the book,
so I don't know whether Bryson is responsible. I am also resistant to
feel-good movies but this was definitely in that genre. I've always
loved Nick Nolte and am sad that he has become so obese, but his innate
attractiveness made me forget how misshapen he is. Definitely (contrary
to at least one reviewer's claims) there was a lot about mortality.
Definitely (contrary to a couple of reviewers' claims) there is a plot
and there is a destination (I say this as a published novelist and
short story writer, as well as a former teacher of creative writing). I
suspect this movie appeals more to people of a certain ageit certainly
appealed to me.
<|_=00=_|>
'A Walk in the Woods' (2015) is the long awaited adaptation of the
beloved 1998 book by Bill Bryson. And I have to say, as a huge fan of
the book, I was extremely excited to hear that this was finally being
made into a movie. I also have to say it was one of the most
disappointing cinema experiences of my life. The film follows Robert
Redford as author Bill Bryson as he makes an ill attempted trek along
the famed Appalachian Trail with his long estranged friend Steven Katz,
played by Nick Nolte. Despite the fact that both book and film have the
same tag-line premise, this movie was about as far away from the source
material as it could possibly get. 

Visually speaking, it was incredibly boring. Stylistically reminiscent
of a Hallmark Channel flick, I expect to see this movie playing in the
waiting room of my local dentist office. Despite the fact that the plot
revolves around two geriatrics traversing an expansive and rugged
mountain trail, roughly two thousand miles of track stretching from
Georgia to Main, well over half of the movie takes place in diners,
motels, laundromats, and the local Kmart. What parts of the film do
take place on the trail are close shots of camping tents or convenient
mountain ledges that vaguely reveal just enough of the surrounding
nature that the audience can tell the scene takes place outdoors. 

This is robs the film of its core plot line. Director Ken Kwapis took
all of the natural beauty from the movie and replaced it with cheap
gags and old men bickering to each other.The title of the movie is 'A
Walk in the Woods' but maybe a more appropriate title would be
'Stumbling through the Parking Lot'. All of Bryson's rich and moving
commentary about the history of environmental thought in America is
summed up with an offhand comment by Redford about a tree.

The dialogue and writing is almost entirely composed of tired clichés
that I feel like I've seen better in a thousand other films. Kwapis
forced the theme of dealing with regrets in later life and having one
last adventure before buying the farm. What he ends up with is a few
painfully awkward scenes between Redford and Mary Steenburgen as Bryson
considers having an affair on his wife (played by Emma Thompson).
Nolte's Katz later tries to pick up a woman in the laundromat and the
intrepid hikers must escape out a window, just as the audience ponders
escaping the theater.

The poor writing and forced jokes are almost unbearable; an opinion
apparently shared by the cast of the film, as none of them seemed to
want to be there. This leaves the audience to watch stiff, awkward, and
disjointed performances from the otherwise talented actors. Redford's
Bryson comes across as elitist, judgmental, and boring. While Nolte's
Katz is indescribably hard to watch; hobbling along the trail at an
improbable pace given his many supposed ailments and gargling out
enough F-bombs as to make the dialogue seem lopsided. Thompson almost
seems embarrassed to be in the three scenes in which she appears.

It is unclear as to the intended audience for this movie. Instead of
making a movie that fans of the book would love, Kwapis made a cheesy
drama that I would feel is insulting to fans of the book, all hikers
and outdoor enthusiasts, and the elderly community in general. The best
parts of the book were removed and replaced with unnecessary drama,
dumb jokes that don't even qualify as slapstick, and a hopeless feeling
that Bryson and Katz are hiking not towards a better friendship and an
appreciation for nature, but towards their failure and regret laden
graves.

Overall, this film has absolutely no redeeming qualities. Reading the
book inspired me to hike the Appalachian Trail so I could be a part of
American history and gain a better appreciation of the natural world.
Watching the movie inspired me to hike the Appalachian Trail so I could
get as far away from the movie as possible.
<|_=00=_|>
I have NOT read the book...So the little 'incorrect' things or the
little incongruities don't mean a thing to me. This movie is a delight
to watch unfold. And soooo funny! I loved the contrast between Redford
and Nolte, they really complimented each other; loved the unexpected
people, and outrageous incidents. It was interesting to learn about the
trail and trail-hiking--the hikers seem a special group of people. And
it was interesting to learn about the problems of the forests, although
I wonder what can be done about it (nothing stopped the American
Chestnut blight). The scenery was beautiful--I would have liked even
more shots. Best of all, however, was the hilarity. We all were holding
our sides! Nolte was grand. Redford was elegant and refined. Emma
Thompson is wonderful in every part she plays. And Mary Steenburgen is
still so beautiful. It was good to see them all!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film today. I will happily pay to see it again.

For the hour and 45 minutes or so that a group of strangers sat in the
dark to view this story we were all comrades in arms:

The theater was filled with loud guffaws, howls and shrieks of
laughter: Joyful foot stomping laughter! I was gasping for breath,
helplessly laughing 'til my sides hurt.

It was refreshing to see a comedy that was well paced, brilliantly
performed and offered a transcendent philosophy; a huge departure from
the formulaic obscenities that Hollywood has churned out in the past 10
years.

This is a Gem: Redford and Nolte create a magnificent chemistry that
begs a sequel. Emma Thompson, Mary Steenburgen, Ken Offerman and
Kristen Schaal are terrific, artfully rounding out their characters
with true craftsmanship.

Don't let 'professional' critics sway you, they get paid to write
snarky reviews - go see this for yourselves, you won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I truly enjoyed this movie, had all experienced, professional actors
and actresses and it showed. Those critics that say there is no plot or
drama are either too young to appreciate the aging life lessons and
insights or too serious and particular and need to lighten up. I, and
many in the theater, had quite a few laugh out loud moments. This is a
movie for the more mature, intelligent crowd. Not for someone looking
for a tense drama, or twitch action flick. I have not read the book but
have read reviews that stated the book was even better so I know what
my next read will be. This movie had some great nature shots of the AT
which was an added bonus. Thought Nick Nolte and Robert Redford were
good casting for their characters.
<|_=00=_|>
"A Walk in the Woods" is precisely what I expected from a comedy-drama
about two geezers hiking across the Appalachian Trail as a means of
reacquainting themselves with the soil of their homeland. This is a
film for the often neglected baby-boomer crowd that doesn't get out to
see films quite often, mainly because most of what's out doesn't appeal
to them. Amidst the noise of "Straight Outta Compton," the mind-numbing
nonsense of "Hitman: Agent 47" and "The Transporter: Refueled," there's
this low-key gem that provides for a restful trip to the theater.

The film is a biopic of author Bill Bryson (Robert Redford), who has
lived out the last two decades exploring Britain and authoring books
before returning to New Hampshire and living peacefully with his wife.
In his sixties, he has put writing to the side, living out the last
years of his life in solitude and tranquility, but is suddenly moved by
the death of a friend enough to have one last adventure in him.
Spontaneously, he comes up with the idea to hike over 2,000 miles along
the Appalachian Trail as a testament to the will of a person and to
become reacquainted with the soil he left decades ago.

He inquires numerous friends, most of whom dismiss him in rude or
casual ways, and figures that he'll have no one to embark on this
journey with. Again, out of nowhere, Stephen Katz (Nick Nolte) a former
friend from Bill's homestate of Iowa, phones and vocalizes his
excitement about the trip. However, upon meeting one another, we see
that Bill, a lean, well-built man, even for sixty, poses a stark
contrast to Stephen, a portly, unkempt alcoholic in remission with the
voice of a phlegm-filled smoker and the look of a street bum. The two
set course for the long haul ahead of them by packing heavily and
working to rekindle the fire that was their friendship.

No matter which way you dissect the film, "A Walk in the Woods" belongs
to Redford and Nolte. Here are two veteran actors who, much like their
characters, have a great deal of experience under their belts and know
how to command a screen. Giving these actors the Appalachian Trail as
their playground is like giving a seasoned artist a paintbrush and as
much free time as he or she needs; they will just do what they do best
and surprise you every step of the way.

Screenwriters Rick Kerb and Bill Holderman, working off of Bryson's
biography of the same name, exhaust the humor possibilities of Redford
and Nolte, and while a handful come in the form of situational comedy,
most come from their casual conversations and musings on life.
Redford's conservative, mild-mannered presence contrasted with Nolte's
vulgar, brutally honest demeanor, with a voice that seems to speak from
the realms of pain, doubt, and years of alcohol dependency, create the
age-old contrast in a buddy movie. Looking past formula and basic
structure, Redford and Nolte know how to make this simple script work
and that is by way of charm and emphasis on character and life
experience.

This is a more straight-forward film than last year's "Wild," which,
while very strong, was bogged down by a heavy emphasis on symbolism and
too much exposition. Here, the humor in the film is consistent enough
to call this a comedy, and the drama is just enough to make you feel
without being overwhelmed. Much like the chemistry on display here, "A
Walk in the Woods" is a decidedly amiable picture, predicated off of
simplicities and amiable charm that's good for a few chuckles and a
peaceful close to the summer of a wide variety of strong and memorable
films.
<|_=00=_|>
I really like Bill Bryson's gentle, whimsical, poignant story telling.
He has a great gift to spot the interesting side to common situations
most of us miss. He has no problem pointing out his own failings or
acknowledging the strengths and abilities of others. And so I was
looking forward to seeing Ken Kwapsis's movie version, having read and
enjoyed the original book shortly after it was released in 1998. 'A
walk in the woods' gave more insight into Bryson than the travel based
books of his I had read, and I really enjoyed it. 

Sadly, this film doesn't even come close to capturing any of the
strengths of the book. I recognised a few scenes, but they were
slapstick caricatures of the sorts of amusing situations that do occur
on long bushwalks, or moments of insight into the foibles of our lives. 

Bill Bryson was born in 1951, and 'A walk in the woods' was first
published in 1998, when he was 47. So I suppose he would have been in
his mid 40s when the trip took place. What those in charge were
thinking of when a nearly 80 year old actor was cast to play the lead,
even a fit one like Robert Redford, I cannot imagine. Nick Nolte as
Bryson's accomplice looked and acted equally frailly, reflecting
Stephen Katz' ability, or more accurately lack of, to look after
himself. This was the film's first and for me most fatal flaw  there
is just no way these two could have done even a tenth of what was being
portrayed.

Most of the supporting cast were superficial, or lacked the subtlety of
the original. The only convincing character for me was Emma Thompson as
Catherine Bryson, Bill's wife. But the gentle pace of the film seemed
about right, even though it meant being selective about which parts of
the book made it to the big screen. It's not the sort of adventure that
would reward a feeling of haste.

The film didn't seem to make the most of what I suppose must be amazing
scenery  much was shot in in flat light from moderately overcast
skies.

There are a few long walk films around at the moment  Reece
Witherspoon pulling herself back together on the Pacific Crest trail in
Wild and pilgrims Walking the Camino spring to mind. And both of these
are far superior films in my view.
<|_=00=_|>
I have NOT read the book, but I understand the author was 30 years
younger that Redford when he walked the Appalachian Trail. Suspension
of disbelief is one thing, but believing an 80 year old is walking the
trail is absurd! Nick Nolte was also way past his prime for age for the
co-lead in the movie, although he did have some funny story lines.
Casting was just a task that wasn't effective, especially, since
Redford was executive producer, a better lead couldn't be considered or
Redford's money would have walked.

Again casting really came up short. Considering Redford's age, to cast
Emmma Thompson as his wife, given a 23 year age gap, with children and
grandchildren no less a product of the marriage is a bit much to
swallow! Later on Mary Steenburgen is cast a a potential flirtation is
as equally ridiculous.

I so wanted to like this movie, but the ONLY redeeming portrayal by any
actor in the movie was from Kristen Schaal a VERY ANNOYING hiker they
met on the trail, she was a breath of fresh air.

And CRIMINAL is the only way I can describe the cinematography for the
film give the vast beautiful vistas that should have been available on
the Appalachian Trail, the scenery should have starred. Additionally,
the scene where they fell over the small ledge was so HORRIBLY done on
a studio set, the set director should have been shot.

All in all, one of the most disappointing movies I have seen in a long
time!
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the 1998 book/memoir of the same name by Bill Bryson, 'A Walk
in the Woods' is a sweet, simple & uncomplicated film, that turns out
to be nice fun. Its also supremely well-acted, although that barely
comes as a surprise, since the performers on-screen are legends.

'A Walk in the Woods' Synopsis: After spending two decades in England,
Bill Bryson returns to the U.S., where he decides the best way to
connect with his homeland is to hike the Appalachian Trail with one of
his oldest friends.

'A Walk in the Woods' is sweet look at age, adventure & friendship.
Watching the senior protagonists go on a trip in the wilderness, offers
moments of warmth & subtle humour. However, the film plays it safe at
all times & hence it turns out be a good watch, but nothing memorable.
Its harmless, but never remarkable.

Bill Holderman & Michael Arndt's Screenplay is nicely done. although
its too simple in totality. Ken Kwapis's Direction is passable.
Cinematography captures the wilderness well. Editing is sharp. Nathan
Larson's Score is super.

Performance-Wise: Robert Redford & Nick Nolte are delightful. They
create a fabulous on-screen camaraderie & carry the film on their
ever-reliable shoulders. Emma Thompson shines in a brief role. Mary
Steenburgen, however, is tiresomely typecast. 

On the whole, 'A Walk in the Woods' is worth a watch.
