
Saw this last night, very impressed with the the performances and the
structure of the film. Many comments say this glorifies violence
whereas it does the opposite, I was left thinking what a waste of a
life, if you want to spend the majority of your days sitting alone in a
pigpen or drugged up in an asylum then this will inspire you as the
means to get there. The audience I saw it with consisted mainly of
males in their early 20s, I think they were disappointed because they
had gone expecting a knockabout tongue in cheek film about one man's
misguided fight against authority and they got a very dark film about
the consequences of violence. Bronson didn't come out of this a hero at
all.

Throughout the film the audience was silent,the only time there was a
reaction was a scene at the beginning of the asylum sequence involving
a act by a patient which seemed to provoke an embarrassed titter from
some people because they didn't know how else to react. Neither was
this film homophobic, I'm gay, I thought Bronson came across as
tolerant of "alternative " lifestyles, the fight promoter,the art
teacher and his uncle who seemed to live with a bunch of trannies were
all accepted by him.He did call the guard he took hostage a "homo" but
that was to intimidate him. Tom Hardy's performance was
fantastic,vulnerable(seeing his mum out of prison),tough,confused(the
reaction to the gay prisoner who fancies him), he was a character out
of his time line, an eccentric that can't cope with normal society's
rules.

Oh and I have no complaints about the size of his willy, what would
your's do surrounded by a film crew?
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Hardy and Nicholas Winding Refn are the stars of the show here,
taking the story of 'Britain's most violent prisoner' and twisting it
into an explosion of style.

Tom Hardy plays Michael Peterson who was initially incarcerated for 7
years after robbing a Post Office but this sentence turned into a 34
year stretch after numerous cases of violence in prison. Of these 34
years 30 were spent in solitary confinement. In his short period
outside he assumed the fighting name of Charles Bronson after the Death
Wish star. It is his alter ego which dominates the film.

Hardy is magnificent, prowling around people almost growling, a
hulking, brooding, unpredictable beast who almost doesn't care what
happens to him, preferring gaol where his is someone to the outside
where he is no-one.

Many reviewers have been troubled by the lack of insight into the
character of Bronson, however this is unsurprising as the story itself
is narrated by Bronson himself, cutting back to a fantasy audience
where he parades in varying levels of makeup, the star of his own show.

Refn handles this material with aplomb, filling it with tracks and
pans, the occasional slice of slow motion, an interesting and varied
colour palate and impeccable taste in music. Kubrick and A Clockwork
Orange have been mentioned in almost every review, but there are clear
influences of Bertolucci, perhaps mostly The Conformist in its detached
style and use of colour.

By the time the film ends we are unsure who to feel sorry for, lost in
a world of hard lines and constant violence. A very interesting film
that marks out Hardy and Refn as exciting talents in modern cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not know about this movie, but I am so glad I watched it. This is
the true story of Michael Patterson, a petty crook, that likes to raise
hell while incarcerated. He is arrested for stealing and due to his
rambunctious nature, he tends to spend a lot of time alone. Upon his
release, he takes up bare fisted boxing at the suggestion of a man he
met in jail. He needs a fighting name, so he chose Charles Bronson
because it is a name people associate with vengeance. The main actor is
amazing!!! He has many monologues and pulls you in with his insanity.
The real Bronson is still incarcerated and has written a few books. He
is in great physical shape, so he wrote one about how he keeps in shape
in prison. He seems a bit split personality and he switched between
them with ease. When the movie ended, I wanted more, so I went on line
to learn more. This is truly an entertaining movie and I'm glad I was
made aware of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Bronson is the dramatized story of Charlie Bronson. Not the actor from
Death Wish, The Great Escape, and The Dirty Dozen. This is the story of
England's most violent prisoner. Born Michael Peterson, he quickly
realized that he wanted to make a name for himself. It is unclear why
he chose the path he did. He had a normal upbringing, a nice home, good
parents, yet he just liked to fight. And he was good at it.

After robbing a post office for what can be only described as "chump
change," he was given a seven year sentence. Since that sentencing in
1974, Bronson has seen a little over a few months as a free man. He is
still in prison to this day.

What Danish filmmaker Nicolas Winding Refn gives us is a stylized
version of one of the most bizarre and intoxicating stories I've seen
in a long time. Bronson, played wonderfully by Tom Hardy, loves what he
does. At least that what he wants us to believe. I was never really
convinced that Bronson truly enjoyed what he did. Then again, I can't
see the pleasure in pummeling prison guards, bare knuckle fighting,
fighting dogs, and bringing others close to death. That said, it was
something else to watch.

Hardy gives a rock solid performance. He fits the part both physically
and mentally. He has the right edge to let us know how intelligent and
hostile Charlie Bronson can be. It's hard to imagine playing someone as
energized and mentally perturbed as Bronson, who gets his jollies from
beating up innocent prison guards and inmates, but Hardy does just that
in style. He never falters and gives 100 percent in every scene.

I can see a lot of similarities to A Clockwork Orange. It has similar
accents, violent images, an insight into the criminal mind. Things very
much associated with Kubrick's masterpiece. Still, Bronson offers
something different. It's more theatrical, blending both the real world
with a more dramatic and exaggerated story, showing Bronson as a
prisoner, a performer, and storyteller.

Bronson is filled with stunning, startling images and a gives us a very
original story, the likes of with we have seldom seen or will see.
Charlie Bronson is a unique case of a man that nobody will ever truly
understand. Whether you like the glorification of criminals or not,
it's hard to deny that this film and the people involved doesn't offer
great entertainment. I expect more from Hardy and Refn.
<|_=00=_|>
Bronson is one of the more interesting films I've had the pleasure of
sitting through as of late. In the trailer (and movie poster), a quote
can be seen where a reviewer called the film, "A Clockwork Orange for
the 21st century." That quote is really spot-on. There is a big
Clockwork Orange influence in this film. While Michael Peterson
narrates the entire film, the film jumps between what actually happened
and Peterson performing in front of an audience in a rather large
theater. The make-up, the setting, and Hardy's performance are all very
Clockwork Orange-esquire. Another film that came to mind was Snatch.
The action sequences and a lot of the humor had a similar vibe to Guy
Ritchie's film. Bronson is very much its own film, but shares the same
beloved qualities of the films mentioned.

Bronson is what it is because of Tom Hardy's performance. He's guiding
you through his life, his dreams, and his goals while you're with him
the duration of the film, so it's only logical that he steals the show
since he gets the most screen time. The fact that he doesn't waste any
of it is something to be proud of though. He makes what would be a
rather dismal story entertaining, exciting, and worth sitting through.
Hardy's performance is the highlight of the film. There's really no
questioning that.

Bronson was really a sleeper hit since its premise didn't interest me
at all, but it wound up luring me in with its trailer. It's a very
unorthodox type of film that isn't like many other films out there.
Films like Bronson think outside the box of normal cinema and is the
type of gem you'd hope to find whenever you journey out to your
favorite theater. If you're looking for a film that is a
knock-down-drag-out, eccentric, thrill-ride with a strong lead actor
performance, then look no further. Bronson is exactly what you're
looking for.
<|_=00=_|>
To be a performer, in British underworld slang, is to have a flair for
violence; to be particularly skilled at putting on the frighteners.
It's a term applied to James Fox's gangland enforcer in 'Performance' -
and it could also be applied to Charles Bronson aka "Britain's most
violent man" as portrayed by Tom Hardy in this bizarre and bracing
character study.

We know Bronson, if at all, through tabloid headlines, chronicling his
hostage-taking, rooftop protests and distinction as Britain's 'longest
serving prisoner'. But even those who thought they knew Bronson might
be surprised to learn that the man born Michael Peterson couldn't have
had a more respectable start. Born into an upper-middle class family in
Aberystwyth, his uncle was mayor and his parents ran the local
Conservative club.

But the bright, gentle boy fell in with a bad lot; he became a
bare-knuckle boxer; he robbed a post office for Â£26.18p. The bungled
armed robbery put him in jail for seven years. Initially. For many, a
lengthy prison stretch would be the undoing of life as they knew it.
But it was the making of Bronson. In prison he discovered his calling:
a gift for chaos.

The opening scene, a tableau which will be repeated over and over
again, features him spattered in blood, feral and naked, playing human
pinball with terrified prison warders until he's eventually
overpowered; a bound Promethean. He travels from prison to prison as if
on eternal vacation. Parkhust is "well worth a visit". At Wormwood
Scrubs, "the staff ensure your stay is as memorable as possible".
Hostage-taking is just a prescription against boredom; although the
matter of whether prolonged incarceration exacerbated his behaviour,
institutionalised him, is never addressed.

So far, so BritCrime. But anyone expecting another 'Rise Of The
Footsoldier' - even 'McVicar' - will be in for a shock. Refn first came
to prominence with the 'Pusher Trilogy', gritty and unflinching
pseudo-documentaries focusing on the criminal underworld of not-so
wonderful Copenhagen. Yet stylistically, Bronson is a universe away
from those movies; it's far plainer to see the influence of DP Larry
Smith, who also photographed Refn's hyper-real 'Fear X.' 

Refn has delivered a weird and wonderful anti-biopic that explodes the
conventions of the genre; a fittingly anarchic approach to linear
progression of which the eponymous jailbird would surely approve. Most
of these scenes could be shuffled around any which way, which is
appropriate: when you've been banged up for as long as Bronson has (34
years, 30 of them in solitary confinement), time probably ceases to
have much meaning.

With a classically-weighted score married to scenes of ultra-violence,
this not only pays homage to Kubrick, but also to mavericks like
Lindsay Anderson, Peter Greenaway and John Maybury ('Love Is The
Devil') in its picaresque digressions and painterly aesthetics: a
cinematic palate of reds and blacks. Hell colours. Compared with most
of the wannabe bad-boys clogging up the arteries of British cinema,
this is practically an art installation or contemporary performance
piece.

And Charles Bronson, of course, is a first-rate performer: from that
attention-grabbing Hollywood-purloined name (actually foisted on him by
a boxing promoter) to his way with his fists - and striking artworks,
which bear comparison with those of that other outsider-artist Daniel
Johnston, and which sell for small fortunes, Bronson has worked as
tirelessly as Max Clifford to keep his reputation intact and name in
the papers for decades.

Refn even has him orating to us from an Edwardian music hall stage, and
miming songs Dennis Potter-style while painted like a harlequin or
moustache-twirling circus strongman. It's disturbing, and recalls
Rupert Pupkin in 'The King Of Comedy' and Jonathan Pryce channeling
Grock the clown in Trevor Griffiths' play 'Comedians'. Also, Freddie
Starr in the infamous 2001 Channel 4 documentary 'Freddie Starr Ate My
Hamster', in which Starr berated an empty auditorium and laid a wreath
on-stage to symbolise 'British comedy's passing'.

Starr came across as desperately unhappy, but also largely
self-deluding. Bronson is equally deluded and naive. A prison governor
tells him, "You're ridiculous". He is. But really, he's just a little
boy incarcerated inside endlessly replicating walls of muscle, a
self-made prison of gristle and bone.

Hardy gets that, and his performance is astonishing; proper
Stanislavski. Whether gazing into the distance with a thousand-yard
stare, as if awaiting the muse of mayhem to tell him who to hit next,
or gleefully cavorting in the theater of Bronson's imagination, the
man's magnetic. 'Peep Show's' Matt King also lends sterling support as
Bronson's comically seedy, upper-class boxing promoter Paul; a Withnail
in the underworld sporting black leather gloves.

In a movie filled with startling, near-hallucinatory moments - drugged,
drooling asylum inmates dancing woozily to The Pet Shop Boys; Bronson
caged in a tiny, medieval-like restricting device, like something from
a Francis Bacon - there is a truly remarkable scene toward the end that
attempts to throw speculative light on the man's motivations, what
really makes him tick. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the filmmakers suggest
the answer lies in the creative impulse.

Having taken his prison art teacher hostage, Bronson demands to hear
music. As Delibes' 'LakmÃ©' is piped over the Tannoy, a swooning naked
Bronson, smeared in charcoal and grease, gently body paints Phil to
resemble a living Magritte, with a bowler hat and apple in his mouth.
Might Bronson's violence simply be misdirected creative passion? Is
prison really an ersatz canvas, onto which he drips warders' blood like
a sociopathic Jackson Pollock? 

Well, alright. There's probably an argument for suggesting Bronson's
nothing more than a pretentious thriller kitted out with the greatest
hits of Classic FM. You could say the same of 'A Clockwork Orange.'
Detractors might say it appeals to those who hold that violence is art
and vice-versa but would flee from a street fight. Which would be to
truly underestimate such a smart, funny and stylish film. Bronson
appeals to the anti-authoritarian in us all.
<|_=00=_|>
As I was watching the first 30 minutes of the bio flick "Bronson", I
thought it had a death wish or something. It does take a while to let
this movie hit you. "Bronson" is based on the true story of who is
called England's most notorious prisoner, that would be Michael
Peterson better known by his alias Charlie Bronson. He has been
incarcerated for 36 years, and 31 in solitary confinement. He never
killed anyone, just was convicted of armed robbery a few times; but it
was his feisty ways in the prisons and psych wards he did time in that
got him all that time. Instead of trying to breakout, Bronson wanted to
stay in prison but not exactly as a Solitary Man. He relished on
physically brutalizing prison guards and other cellmates, not to
mention taking a few as hostages. Bronson also had an artistic side
that is also highlighted in Writer-Director's Nicolas Winding Refn
movie. Refn's screenplay with Brock Norman Brock did escape the rules
of viewer engagement from time to time with its extreme bizarreness,
but somehow it boldly & bloody worked. Kudos goes to Refn for
orchestrating those power-punching scenes where Charlie B. is refn so
many up. Also, I must commend his direction of the comedic scenes of
observing Charlie readapting to social civilization upon being released
after his first "prison tour of duty". But "Bronson" would not be a
brawny feature without the tour-de-performance of Tom Hardy. This Hardy
Boy sure did not lack a punch with his dead-ringer Bronson
transformation. It will be hard to knock out Hardy as a surefire grand
actor for years to come. It is hard to fathom that this is the same
actor who played The Cleaner in "Inception", two exemplary performances
but diverse in so many ways. "Bronson" is worth putting in the time for
no better reason just to witness Tom Hardy's extraordinaire hard work.
So pass Go and matchup with "Bronson". ***** Excellent
<|_=00=_|>
In one of the most frightening and downright crazy lead turns of the
year, Tom Hardy ignites the screen in the British independent film,
Bronson. Based on the unbelievable true story and directed by Nicolas
Winding Refn, the at times bizarre film tells the story of Michael
Peterson, played by Hardy, who robs a post office in 1974, to only get
26 pounds out of the deal, and is sentenced to four years in prison. A
four year stay has turned into a thirty-four year prison term, thirty
of which has been spent in solitary confinement.

The man, which the British press calls 'the most violent prisoner in
Britain," is one of the most complex, and highly disturbing characters
to be depicted on screen this year. He always wanted to famous, Hardy
states with such charisma at the opening of the film, but he can't
sing, he can't dance, so he creates an alter ego during his time as a
boxer prior to his prison sentence. Though the film is loosely based on
the real man and his story, it doesn't matter, Refn treats the film
with such artistic integrity and takes chances that most directors hope
to accomplish in their careers. The narrative, though over-whelming at
times, is unyielding in the manner in which it's told. For the most
part however, Tom Hardy's gritty and aggressive performance will go
down as one of the best kept secrets of 2009.

In watching the picture, the co-stars are nearly invisible as Hardy
takes control of the screen and your attention. He enables the viewer
to devote their time and energy with fear of severe consequences in not
doing so. Hardy is an incredible talent and not sure if you'll see a
more devoted actor to a character on film this year.

Refn's choice of music that fills the scenes with torment, discomfort,
and sheer violence is a brilliance shown in his armor. Bronson is pure
entertainment, and though it doesn't provide any moral or social
significance in the acts of our lives, it's an admiral effort by
British cinema.

***/****
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fantastic depiction of Charles Bronson, born Michael
Peterson, Britain's most infamous and notorious prisoner. Director
Nicholas Winding Refn invites us into Bronson's imagination, with parts
of the film shot from the perspective of him being on stage in front of
an adoring audience. The rest of the film is a dramatization of
Bronson's life and times in prison. 

Bronson was initially incarcerated for seven years for the robbery of a
post office where he stole Â£26.18. However he has spent 34 years in
prison and psychiatric wards so far, and is still there, spending 30 of
them in solitary confinement. He has been involved in fighting, brawls
and hostage taking which led to his increased sentence, and he seems to
enjoy it. No lives have been lost. 

This is an excellent performance from Tom Hardy Âfunny, thoroughly
engaging and intense. He physically transformed himself for this role
and obviously studied Bronson vigorously to accurately portray his
mannerisms. 

A thoroughly compelling film. A must see!
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this the other day at the Sydney Film Festival.

I didn't know much about Bronson before the film, other than what I
read on Wikipedia and after walking out of the cinema, I can't say I
know any more about the man other than his inability to conform and his
reliance on violence and abuse to deal with most situations.

Unlike Korean movie Breathless which also screened at the festival and
focused on violence but at least gave you an idea as to why the main
character was so disturbed and messed up. Bronson doesn't give you any
answers other than he was simply born that way, despite loving parents.
His inability to deal with society starting as early as his school
years.

What I did enjoy was Hardy's performance. Sure to be compared to Bana's
Chopper (which I think was far better - but I am an Aussie and
therefore biased) and also A Clockwork Orange. Hardy is impressive as
the hulking and impulsive brute. He occasionally shows us Bronson's
vulnerable side but mostly it's about the rage that drives him from one
prison to another.

The prison system and Brit government are seemingly helpless to come up
with solutions at dealing with Bronson's violence. The man himself also
seems way beyond rehabilitation. That would be a big understatement.

I thought it was a shame that Bronson didn't get into boxing or some
other type of physical sport like Rugby league when he was younger as
it might have given him an outlet for his anger.

Anyways, it's ultimately pretty grim viewing but certainly packs a
punch (no pun intended). I would have like to see Winding Refn offer us
a little more insight into the man.
