
Alejandro Amenábar's masterpiece is a breathtaking excursion into
religious fascism and misogynistic tyranny made special by Rachel
Weisz, who probably give one of the best female acting performances in
years as a scientist who was light years beyond her generation. Weisz
is amazing and her performance is the show and then some. She's back up
by Max Minghella, who is a great actor in his own right and Oscar
Isaac, who is just as good. The triangle between them in believable and
touch by their struggles to find their destinies. Its a moving
cinematic piece of art and Alejandro does the story proud in his way of
capturing the time of struggles of that time. Far and away, the best
film I have seen all year.
<|_=00=_|>
I was familiar with the Hypatia story because a certain category of
people in my native country choose to present here as a martyr from a
bygone golden age of reason, rapidly receding before the encompassing
waves of Cristian barbarity and obscurantism. I think in general this
is also the view this movie takes.

The character of Hypatia is presented as logical, brilliant, prudent
with thirst for learning for it's own sake. The only problem that a
modern sensibility could find with her is her attitude towards slaves,
which seem to reflect the ideas of the educated elite of the times(of
antiquity in general because even people of the calibre of Aristotle
shared such conceptions). Otherwise she is perfect.

In a very imperfect world one must note, because the society she lives
in is convulsed by civil strife and feuds between Christians, Pagans
and Jews.As the movie progresses they eventually become Christian and
Jews because Pagans convert to Christianity because of the attitudes of
imperial authority and political expediency. Although this is not fully
explained, how a very powerful pagan element becomes impotent in the
second half of the movie. I think the scenario is problematic there.

Also the beliefs of the group in which Hypatia belongs are not really
clarified. There were pagan, believers of the aegypian Gods(there is a
statue of Serapis), of Greek Gods of Roman Gods or just agnostic
rationalists(as Hypatia seems to be) belonging to a pagan upper class
environment? On the other side, the Christian, the "Parabalanoi" whose
existence I have not verified as a social group or lay monastic order
or something in between, are presented as a bunch of idiotic thugs, the
equivalent of modern hooligans with a religious veneer, keen to kill,
pillage and rape(although this is hinted rather discreetly)supposedly
in the name of Jesus.

The leader of the Christians Cyril-a historical personage who became a
saint, as the final titles of the movie correctly state, is portrayed
as a power-hungry(there is scene in which he avidly takes the bishop's
ring from the hand of his dead predecessor), manipulative bigot. His
aim is to become master of Alexandria and Christianity is his tool,
while the Prefect-the political authority- stands in his way.The
Prefect, being a former student of Hypatia is advised by her, thus she
earns the enmity of Cyril- with fatal results. His portrayal matches
with a sketch of him by Bertrand Russell in "History of Western
Philosophy":"St Cyril, the advocate of unity, was a man of fanatical
zeal. He used his position as patriarch to incite pogroms against the
very large Jewish colony in Alexandria. His chief claim to fame is the
lynching of Hypatia, a distinguished lady who, in an age of bigotry,
adhered to the Neoplatonic philosophy and devoted her talents to
mathematics." The way he is in the movie seems inspired by this
passage, as if the makers of the movie were based on that. Nevertheless
it was effective since they made the viewers find despicable a man dead
by 1.600 years.

There is only one scene where the Christian religion is presented with
some sympathy and that is where the slave(who is secretly in love with
his mistress Hypatia) is convinced to exercise the virtue of charity,
by an otherwise negatively portrayed zealot(Ammonius), through giving
food(bread)to the poor, who are many and needy. It is a moving scene
and the sole in movie akin to present Christianity in a positive light.

Religious struggle is presented as a power struggle, which may be
correct when one leaves the realm of individual conscience and enters
the public arena. Pagans, Christians and Jews(both people and leaders)
are equally bad, the worse being the Christian zealots "Parabolani", to
which a freed slave of Hypatia now belongs. Orestes, the Prefect, a
former student of Hypatia, is better as a character than Cyril or
Synesius, another student of Hypatia, now a high-class Church
dignitary.(One though is left with the impression that Hypatia operated
the Harvard of her times!) The end of the movie, presents a view of
events censored compared to the one we have from historical sources, as
to what exactly happened to Hypatia.

I think that the actress playing Hypatia is fine and convincing as a
free spirit in an age of bigotry and also good is the performance of
her two unconsummated would-be-lovers the aristocrat and latter Prefect
Orestes and the slave and latter Christian zealot, Davus. The actor
playing Cyril conveys the aura of sliminess and bigotry of a religious
power-player.

Scenery and costumes are superb to watch but I do not know enough about
Alexandrian geography and clothing habits to vouch for their historical
accuracy.

It is a movie worth seen although it leaves a bitter taste in the end
and tries to say and mix too many and too weighty matters in the brief
span of a cinematic exhibition.
<|_=00=_|>
It surprises me how many reviewers are giving this astonishing film
only mediocre ratings, and I do hope this is not because the film
chooses not to dwell on the viciousness of Hypatia's murder: a decision
which would have made a cinematic 'spectacle' entirely inappropriate
for this most subtle and beautiful of films. For the record, the real
Hypatia - a pagan philosopher in fourth century Alexandria who deduced
that the earth orbited the sun in an ellipse, and preserved her right
to operate as a lecturer by repelling her suitors with a gift of a
handkerchief stained with her own menstrual blood  was killed as a
witch by fundamentalist Christians who scraped the living flesh from
her bones with seashells. It is her life and thought, however, and not
the manner of her death, which is the chief subject of this film, and
that is as it should be.

The astonishingly realistic recreation of Alexandria is in itself a
remarkable cinematic feat, the costumes look entirely authentic, the
performances are flawless, and the cinematography - always beautiful -
is often thoroughly awe inspiring. Ultimately, however, what makes this
film so great is the way in which it puts human beings into perspective
(swarming fundamentalists ransacking the agora are likened to ants, and
in one of the most inspired shots in cinematic history, Alexandria is
viewed from outer space, and is sublime and utterly insignificant all
at once) whilst suggesting that human beings are nevertheless capable
of reaching the heights of reason, and plumbing the depths of unreason.
It is one of the ironies of history that the monstrous 'Saint' Cyril of
Alexandria is recognised as a Doctor of the Church, whilst not a single
word written by Hypatia has survived.

Much ink will be wasted in coming months in discussion of whether this
film deliberately paints Christianity in a bad light. The truth is that
no form of religious extremism looks good in this film, and for that
reason alone, it ought to be statutory viewing for all people who are
convinced that theirs is the only god. Rachel Weisz plays the lead role
with such grace and conviction that her refusal of Christian baptism,
accompanied by the words "I believe in philosophy"  clunky as they may
look on the printed page  becomes one of the most powerful moments in
modern cinema.

Forget the lukewarm reviews, and see this film for yourself. Thrown off
the scent, perhaps, by publicity over-emphasising the romantic element
in the film, reviewers have begun to argue that the plot begins to flag
in the second half. This is to miss the point entirely: the film is not
a romance; it is an exploration of one woman's discoveries about our
place in the universe, and it is at once humbling, tragic and
victorious. I found myself on the edge of tears throughout most of it,
entranced by the splendour, wisdom and realism of its vision. The
ending was the hardest and the truest thing I have ever seen in a film.

But don't trust me. Make up your own mind. That is what Hypatia would
have told you to do.
<|_=00=_|>
The great thing about this film is the choosing of the story, and its
context. The shifting of mentalities depicted here and the riotous
events, whether historically accurate or not serve as an example of
what was going on. Basically the end of an age, that meant the
placement of religion at the core of political, social, and cultural
powering of society. So, it's pretty apt that they developed a story
around the idea of christians overcoming jews and pagans, yes, but more
important, forcing Orestes (the "old school" guy) to play their
political game, and wiping out Hypatia, the "last" free thinker (and a
woman!).

Those viewers that care about historical "truth", whatever that is,
should mind a few things here: there aren't enough true facts for us to
be able to tell a factual story of the events, and in this film
specifically, we shouldn't take things at their facial value, but to
consider them as metaphors for something. Characters stand for what
they represent in their context. It's all a metaphor, including the
physical act of destruction of the library. Library, the term, referred
to the books back than, to knowledge, no the physical place, and this
certainly is understood by the writers here, who nevertheless use the
idea of the building being destroyed, but as a metaphor. That building,
which is fairly interesting [1] (even if virtual) becomes the central
piece of the metaphor, and the richest thing about the construction of
this film, for how they play with the idea of distances. It's as simple
as this: first, you have the "Greek school" controlling the library,
and everybody else outside. Than christians take over, throw the greeks
out, and make the "library" into something close to a church. The
remaining Greek thinkers are thrown to the outskirts. And the Agora,
center of social discussion, becomes center of riots. Who gets the
library gets control, but those events leading to control take place in
the Agora. And Hypatia comes to go on with her research outside the
city, marginal to the new order.

There is a certain visual interest in the recreation of events, but it
seems to me that there was more to the intentions of Amenabar in what
concerns the use of the camera than what technology allowed him to do.
The movements seem to be more mechanical than he'd probably want,
because he wasn't able to predict the spacial world as much as he
wanted.

Than we have Hypatia, and the interesting thing about her is how in her
we see something common back than, which was the use of science, logic,
and mathematics as a path to God, to the understanding of the universe.
Actually this attitude went on through the middle ages in western
cultures, disguised with various names (gnosticism, alchemy,
esoterism). Physical or metaphorically, this shift towards religious
politics certainly has been one of the greatest set backs in western
culture.

[1] - The building has a circular hole in the ceiling, and the effect
is, i think, a watered version of one of our best buildings, Rome's
Pantheon.

My opinion: 3/5 http://www.7eyes.wordpress.com
<|_=00=_|>
i haven't read all the reviews...just the first few...and there was a
very good one...the one about the movie being 'overambitious' and why.

but as i was watching the movie i was impressed at how it was not going
to be routine in a number of ways. the heroine was not going to cave to
lust. OR fear of death if she must renounce her beliefs/perspectives.
albeit, and this is the ironic problem, they are more deeply held. but
not religious. not 'THEIR' religion. the irony continues with the
heroine being 'crucified' for her beliefs... and i just didn't see that
mentioned in the reviews i read... to me it's what made it a really
good film...all the ellipses within the ellipses... yes. it was flawed
in its telling...certain aspects were not as developed as they might've
been...and they ground against each other at times. but nothing about
any of the dynamics felt false... as has been pointed out, religion was
once again used to front political agendas/ambitions. charismatic
characters channeled the unrest present in any populous district...the
yang to the settled/incumbent yin. atrocities were committed by all
sides. but the center held despite the gravitational pull of all the
different dynamics in the film. lots of which i haven't mentioned b/c
i've read them spoken about already in other reviews/comments. no need
to go over the same ground twice.

anyways... i was surprised at the high rating the film got here b/c i
really didn't experience it as a crowd pleaser. i don't want to REALLY
throw out spoilers here, so i can't explain some of the reasons i'm
writing this. but when you get to the end of the story you'll
understand. still...i really admire the courage the studios had to put
money behind a movie that told an interesting story on its own terms.
not following some Hollywood ellipse and maybe throwing in a feelgood
thread or two so that people don't leave feeling bummed out and wanting
their money back... i can take a story like this. and thanks for
respecting that possibility.
<|_=00=_|>
This is arguably the best film of 2009, depending on whether or not you
understand the filmmaker's perspective. I believe, in some ways, full
appreciation of this film can only be achieved if you have watched a
completely unrelated work: "Cosmos", by Carl Sagan.

Both the Library of Alexandria and Hypatia were terms that constantly
came up in Cosmos; and although it is unclear if Sagan had any
influence in the making of this film, it really embodied Sagan's
philosophy. For example, there are a lot of aerial shots, looking at
the Earth from afar - often during dramatic scenes of either love or
violence that shows both how insignificant and how precious the human
existence is. In spite of all our wars and hate and differences, we are
all being carried on this lone blue vessel, journeying through the vast
emptiness of space. Are we really that different? Or do more things
unite us than divide us, like Hypatia says? In a moment of sheer
ignorance, men can destroy their own proudest and most beautiful
achievements and erase all of their accumulated knowledge. It's
happened before, and it could happen again. This film delivered this
message with beautiful precision - are we naive, like Orestes of
Alexandria, to think we have finally changed? Or should we look at
ourselves in the mirror and know that we still have a long road ahead
to better ourselves? The choice is up to us.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember hearing of Hypatia's tragic tale from Carl Sagan in his
"Cosmos" TV series way back in 1980. I was appalled by the tale, and
shook my head as any good reasoned young man would. It was a story that
stuck with me for much of my life. And I often wondered if such an
important biography would ever be published about this mysterious and
remarkable historic figure. I truly did not think so, and believed that
Hypatia's memory would have to live on with what little history there
was written about her, and the blurb mentioned once or twice by Carl
Sagan as he recounted the once magnificent library of Alexandria.

People are stupid. I agree with Ridley Scott on this. They really and
truly are. Whether it's the zealots portrayed in this film, or the
Christian who sat behind me commenting on the film (he ACTUALLY
APPLAUDED the Christians in the film), or just people in general, they
really are stupid. It's how we get things like religion, and place not
just some whimsical desire in them, but a devout belief, a serious
conviction of some entity that is displeased by earthly decadence.
Hence the crux of the story in "Agora".

We have the absolute mind numbed moronic thinking of the masses verse
the practicality of those who know they do not know everything, but
have a thirst for knowledge, and to share that knowing with others so
that they can live a life free of fear.

But, we see that it is fear that wins out. Not reason. Not logic
applied to a simple problem with a simple solution. But pure,
unmitigated fear. Everyone from the heads of state, the heads of
religions, the heads of mobs, the heads of any social entity in Roman
Imperial Egypt is gripped by fear. Knowledge. Reason. Logic.
Understanding. Education. Those are the true weapons that can assail
the most ardent of foes.

But fear is primal, and infects everyone and everything like a plague
spread by rats. The notion of imaginary beings who, in spite of being
all powerful and all knowing, are vested in a patch of desert and how
its human female population dresses should be a warning sign. Does this
not sound familiar? We have the same concerns today, and although
codified and addressed by legislation for local morays, and
investigated and codified by alleged behavioral experts, people are
still pretty touchy about anything remotely informative that doesn't
gybe with their ideals: as a for instance; sex in this case.

Hypatia thinks like a man, despite her sexual makeup. She is the one
who calls reason, as any good leader or scientist would. The rest
merely cower to the polity dominating the social terrain. But she is
optimistic. Even so, the times tragically overwhelm her.

The story of Hypatia has been somewhat elongated, no doubt for dramatic
effect. Regardless, it's a good watch. Buy yourself a ticket, or grab
the DVD when it comes out. You won't be disappointed.

Enjoy! :-)
<|_=00=_|>
The chief reason to see this film is for Rachel Weisz's performance as
Hypatia the philosopher. She is the main character and she gives an
excellent performance. Whenever she is on screen you are riveted to the
screen. Her excitement at discovery, her endless desire to learn, her
ability to figure out the mysteries of the universe are fascinating and
she makes them feel exciting even though we know it all already.
Unfortunately, when ever she is off-screen there is nothing to hold our
interest until she returns. The rest of the plot is a really blunt,
unsubtle message about the dangers of religious zealotry blatantly
inserted onto Hypatia's story to give it some sort of relevance. The
sheer lack of subtlety and intelligence behind this message is
annoying. The Christians are all bigoted, mindless, intolerant fools,
and the pagans are not much better. Hypatia by contrast is presented as
an atheist, which she certainly wasn't, and the only reasonable person
left. I have never liked having ideas forced down my throat and this
movie does that extremely roughly.

Hypatia has often been seen as a martyr to science which is really a
shame since the history doesn't support that. In this movie she is
basically presented as an atheist who doesn't believe in any of the
gods which is just flat-out wrong. She was a Neoplatonist and what the
Neoplatonists were known for was their incorporation of religion in
their philosophy. The supposed atheism of philosophers is a myth that
should really be discredited by now, and the Neoplatonists actually had
miracles and spiritual elements in their teachings. That isn't to say
that they had no scientific interests, but they incorporated them into
a wider religious context. To have Hypatia speak out against religion
in general was just wrong.

The Christian zealotry in this movie is extreme to the point of being
utterly unbelievable and insulting. They burn all of the books in the
Library of Alexandria because they are pagan filth. The actual event
that took place at this time was the burning down of a pagan temple and
it's library of religious texts. The Christians never touched the
library. For that matter they never intentionally destroyed scientific
or philosophical works, its just that the Dark Ages wasn't really the
sort of time when they had much use for those tracts which led to many
of them being lost. Turning her death into a primitive reaction to
education is also bull. She was killed by a Christian mob it is true,
but it was over a political conflict, not a religious one. The
Christian elite was as highly educated as the pagan elite before them
and this wasn't seen as contradictory.

Still, what's good about this movie is Hypatia. She is presented with
intelligence and grace and comes across as an extremely likable person.
Unfortunately the film is intent on removing her personality and making
her merely a symbol. It is to the film's greater credit that in this,
it fails.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this today at the Toronto International Film Festival, and
overall it was quite an interesting experience for me. I will first
comment on the pros, and then the cons.

The Good

From the beginning, the film's exquisite detail is evident -- costumes,
sets, props, hundreds/thousands of extras, etc --, reminding me
especially of HBO's Rome series. CGIs were amazing, and the sound
effects used in certain scenes with large numbers of people were
thunderous and powerful -- surely the best I have seen from a film. It
is by far the most ambitious project in the bringing to life of an
ancient city that I have seen on screen. I only wished that they would
have had the actors speak in Greek, but that would be asking too much I
suppose :p

Also, I liked how the film did not focus so much on portraying any one
religious group as "the bad guy". Naturally, one would have assumed
that it was going to be the Christians (after seeing the trailers), but
in fact the goods and the bads were exposed in all religions, which
added to the realism and historical accuracy of the film.

Above all, this director ought to be commended in his attempt to
capture the society in the city of Alexandria of late antiquity. This
has never yet been done in cinema, and Amenabar clearly attempts to do
this out of extraordinary passion for his work. Agora presents to the
audience a glimpse into a world that is little known outside of the
circles of ancient historians and classicists, and the film's portrayal
of religious strife between the different groups in Alexandria
successfully shows a very complex ancient society.

The main character, Davus, also serves as an important figure, by
representing the common man living in Alexandria at the time who must
face the challenges of an ancient society in transition. However, I
feel that the subtleties of Davus' character, who is indeed a source of
much important historical information, would be misunderstood and
ignored by the audience, which would be in search of something more
direct and "in- your-face" from the film.

Overall, the film was at its best when it subtly hinted certain
elements/themes to the audience -- this is when it showed the most
sophistication in the portrayal of history, and skill in terms of
artistic merit.

The Bad

I think the biggest mistake that the director made was to focus too
much on the religious conflict. Without a doubt, during the first 45
minutes the audience was engulfed and captivated with awe by the strife
between the pagans and the Christians (probably because such a time in
history is little known today, and rarely portrayed in art or
discussed), but the film does not give a break to its constant
references to religion. Throughout the two hours, the script
continuously shows the characters' endless preoccupation with religious
matters, which takes away from development of their individualities.
Amenabar tries to differ attention toward other things, through the
love triangle between Orestes, Davus, and Hypatia -- which works well
at times, but could have been developed far more (especially between
her and Davus). He also gives some attention to science; a big mistake
IMO, because in such scenes, one feels like the film turns into a
lecture. If Amenabar had tried to use CGIs to demonstrate some of the
scientific concepts discussed among characters, he could have added
something artistic to the bland dialogue of those scenes.

I was also somewhat disappointed by Dario Marianelli's score. HAving
heard his compositions for "Pride and Prejudice", "Atonement" and "V
for Vendetta", I was expecting a musical score that was more intense
and thought-provoking, rather than a more or less typical and primitive
symphony that one often hears in "epic" historical films.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Muddled film that has its sights set high in the right course but lacks
focus and a direct script that can handle the subject matter. Alejandro
Amenábar tries his best but comes up short in many ways with his
narrative. The movie is a little too long and the script wavers from
time to time but Rachel Weisz's performance is Oscar worthy and
deserving of a better film that respects the effort she puts in it. She
makes you stay with the movie, even when It sputters out of control
during the last half of the film. She gets good support from her
leading men (Max Minghella and Oscar Isaac) but its hard for the three
of them to connect with how unfocused the script is and that's the
film's biggest problem.

For Weisz's Oscar effort and the solid performances of her leading men,
the movie gets a 7 but with out their performances, the movie would be
much lower.
