
Questionable follow up to the Bourne trilogy that has the right pieces
in place but lacks the conviction to justify its existence. Taking
place almost at the same time of the climax of the third Bourne film
(Ultimatum), this film deals with the fall out of the exposure of
"Operation Blackbriar" and how an another agency with in the government
is trying to cover up their program in order not to be caught up with
the coming scandal create by Jason Bourne. "Outcome", the program in
question is an offshoot of both "Treadstone" and "Blackbriar" but with
a huge difference, they are tabbing into science to create super agents
that are faster and stronger than any other agent before them. 

In order for me to tell you what is good about this movie, I have to
explain what is wrong with it and that is the fact that you get the
feeling fifteen minutes into the film that there is no reason for it to
exist. The last film (Bourne Ultimatum) pretty much closed the book on
the series, with little to no wiggle room for an encore. This movie
feels like a studio trying to milk dried what was good from the
original trilogy in order to make more sequels. The bad part is that
they did it in the most unbelievable way, so much so that you really
need to forget what you saw in the last three films in order to believe
what was going on in this movie. Tony Gilroy (Who wrote the first three
movies) directs and writes this one but falls flat on his face with
halfhearted explanations that try to justify this movie's existence.
Not to mention the fact that the villain of the movie is a lightweight
compared to what came before him plus the glaring fact that Edward
Norton's performance as the heavy is pretty much phoned in. He does not
have the confidant arrogant swagger that Chris Cooper's character had
in the first film nor the desperate menace of that Brain Cox's
character brought to the second. Norton's character is more in line
with the villain of the third, who was played by David Strathaim (who
has a cameo in this film). However, Strathaim's character had a sense
of justifiable menace that drove him, while Norton's character just
seems like a man trying to justify his actions for the greater good,
making him more of a government shill than a villain. The science
fiction angle that comes up is insulting to what the last three films
were, not to mention the fact that the direction here lacks the kinetic
energy that Paul Greengrass brought to the last two movies of the
series. Say what you may about the shaky camera work but he knew how to
stage a thrilling action piece of pop art. Gilroy's motorcycle chase
towards the climax is decent but lacks kinetic spark. He is however
very good in staging small intimate moments within this movie but that
is more a compliment to the A + cast (Mainly his two lead actors) than
the terrible script that they are forced to working with.

Jeremy Renner is a talented actor with serious range and complexity.
However, the character he plays is not much of a character and the
script that he has to work with is riddled with cliché after cliché. He
can do anything a secret agent can do but better but the character is
not very compelling or interesting to say the least. Jason Bourne was a
compelling character that needed to find himself and through that
journey in the original trilogy, we saw complexities that were
compelling and thoughtful. He was a conflicted man whose drive was
dictated by an inner sense of redemption. The character of Aaron Cross
is a cartoon character compared to Jason and that is the main problem
of the script for this movie. It is though Renner's efforts as an actor
that we care about the character of Aaron Cross and that is one of the
few bright spots this film has. Renner injects likability and
vulnerability to this character and because of it, we want him to
succeed in beating the bad guy and save the girl but Renner is working
with a script that goes against itself and we are left with a half fast
story that deals with supermen than a human story about survival. It is
through Renner's efforts as an actor that we see humanity and conflict
in this character while the script itself does not give that sort of
detail and Renner is working overtime to accomplish that. Renner would
have done wonders with a compelling character like Jason Bourne,
unfortunately that is not found with the character of Aaron Cross.

Rachel Weisz is one of the most versatile, gifted and complex actors
working today. An actor's actor in every sense of word but like Renner,
she does not have much of a character thanks to the cliché script they
both have to work with. Her character is on the run with Cross through
out the film and acts as his doctor and object of protection. It is
through Weisz's amazing strength and range as an actor that we are able
to witness levels of complexity and humanity in the character of Dr
Marta Shearing that we really do not get from the script. Because of
that, we are not only able to care and identify with her but Weisz
actually makes her character more complex and interesting than Aaron
Cross himself. You can tell that Weisz was working overtime in
achieving that and her efforts pay off ten fold, which is a blessing
considering that most of the characters outside of her and Renner come
across as cardboard cutouts.

It is a shame because Renner and Weisz try their best and for the most
part succeed despite all odds but they like the fans deserved better.
<|_=00=_|>
This is truly a case of great actors who are left out there in the cold
by a director, who essentially does not even try to respect them and
the audience's intelligence by giving them something original or
interesting. Tony Gilroy had written not only the first three Bourne
films but the great Michael Clayton as well but here, it is obvious
that he is on a destructive ego trip. Gilroy is more interested in
making people see on how smart he is as a scriptwriter and filmmaker
than actually try to entertain and stay true to what made the other
Bourne films special. With that destructive mind set, Gilroy forgets
that you need faith in your actors and the material they are working
with in order to drive the movie forward. Gilroy also commits the
biggest sin of all, which is to never underestimate the intelligence of
your audience.

The script by Gilroy and his brother Dan tries to be cutting edge in
scientific jargon and smart dialog but ends up with so many
inconsistencies and flimsy characterization that you have to double
back twice to see if Gilroy actually had a hand in the original "Bourne
Trilogy". The characters in this film are only there to get from A to B
and none of them with the exception of Rachel Weisz and Jeremy Renner
(Who you can clearly see are both working beyond the call of duty to
make something out of their paper-thin roles) has any real purpose at
all. Poor Edward Norton is only there to bark orders and you can
clearly see how frustrated he is with his role in certain scenes. The
direction is not even very good, with pacing problems and a running
time that excessively too long for its own good. The action scenes (The
few of them in the film) do not jar well and are boring to say the
least.

My advice to Universal, if there has to be a sequel, bring back Rachel
Weisz and Jeremy Renner (Who both deserve medals for their efforts in
making this lazy, self indulgent script work) and get rid of Tony
Gilroy, who clearly does not respect anybody other than himself. You
might have a better movie if you do.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bourne Legacy is the fourth installment of the Bourne franchise and
evolves around a new main protagonist, Aaron Cross. The story runs
parallel with the end of the third Bourne movie, and concerns itself
with the result of Jason Bourne's exposure of the Blackbriar program. 

"Outcome", another government program, is trying to cover up themselves
by eliminating their agents in order to not get pulled down by the
coming scandal set in motion by Jason Bourne's actions. Outcome is an
affiliate of Blackbriar and Treadstone, with one significant difference
however. Their agents are chemically enhanced to be quicker, stronger
and smarter, by ingesting a set of pills. This is where we meet Aaron
Cross. Being hunted by his own agency, while trying to get the pills he
so desperately need. 

What makes this movie watchable is NOTHING but the performance of the
lead actors, Jeremy Renner and Rachel Weisz. Both talented actors with
great depth and experience. It is obvious that they are struggling to
tap into the emotional vein of their characters, and the script taken
into consideration, it is not strange. Despite this, Renner and Weisz
manage to pull it off beautifully. This is no doubt due to the
undeniable chemistry between the two. Weisz's sensitive and innocent
character fits together beautifully with Renner's stoic, cold, and very
charming character. Weisz in particular brings some much needed
sensitivity to the movie, which otherwise would have been pretty boring
to watch. She becomes Cross's object of protection, and it is because
of her we even care about his attempt to find safety from his
assailants. Without her, this would have been a movie about a man
trying to find medicine. In short I have nothing but respect for these
two people, and they do a wonderful job despite what would have
otherwise been an insult to the series and the genre in general. 

Regrettably Edward Norton's character as Eric Byer, the "bad guy"
hunting for Aaron Cross seems spineless and unnecessary compared to the
other two. This makes him annoying and superficial when he's on, and
you can't help but get the feeling that he shouldn't be there. Compared
to Chris Cooper's mysterious and secretive character as Conklin, the
head of Treadstone from The Bourne Identity, Norton seems even more
spineless and unnecessary.This is once again more of a critique of the
script than of Edward Norton as an actor, since we know (from for
example American History X and Fight Club) that Edward Norton can
really act. 

This is the kind of movie, where they show every single action sequence
in the trailer. As you start watching the movie, you're wondering when
it's ACTUALLY gonna start, and when it does start you're wondering what
it's actually about. It's very hard to keep track of, and it seems to
want to be two things at the same time. It is impossible to watch it
without forgetting what you saw in the last three films, because it is
so far from the original ones. It is like you are in a completely
different universe, and it lacks the charm, mystique and wit that makes
a "real" Bourne movie. Paul Greengrass managed to be innovative without
compromising the dark, mysterious, kind-of-charming feel of the first
movie. For whatever reason, Tony Gilroy has not. The Bourne Legacy is
so far from the other three movies that it is hard to believe it's in
the same "universe". At the same time it is impossible to understand
the plot without keeping track of what happened in the original ones.
That way it's trying to be two very different things, and ends up
worming itself into a strange borderland between "Knight And Day" and
"Quantum Of Solace" which leaves you puzzled to its existence, and
unconvinced to its plot. 

The movie does have some pretty decent action sequences with great
effects, but lacks the storyline, motivation, drive and intimacy to
justify them. They're redundant.

Towards the end of the two and a half hour ordeal that this movie
really is, you find yourself not really caring anymore and just want it
to end decently. And then the air goes out of the balloon with a poof.
Out of nowhere the movie ends, with no conclusion, no explanation and
no reason whatsoever for it to exist. You're left with a lot more
questions than answers, and feel unsatisfied with what you've just
seen. 

Perhaps it was due to my high expectations that I couldn't enjoy this
movie as much as I wanted, but I feel like i've seen enough to know
what makes a great movie and distinguish between a good and a bad
scripts. It's a real shame, because Jeremy Renner, Rachel Weisz and
Edward Norton are three of my favorite actors and I think they could
have worked miracles with the right script. 

In short, I have nothing but respect for the actors but don't feel like
this is worthy of being called a Bourne movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never written a review here, but I felt compelled to actually
step up and defend this movie.

The Bourne Legacy was everything I expected it to be. It couldn't be
too close to the previous Bourne films, but had to be close enough to
let us know a storm is coming.

Bourne's presence throughout the film is what spins this story into
action and I felt it was balanced perfectly. We all want Bourne, but
this is Aaron Cross's story. Renner and Weisz were great, but I think
the scripting has been derided by many as terrible. I had no issues
with anything and even felt compelled by Renner's character motivation.
This was someone yearning to be more, not someone who was already
better than everyone else, but just couldn't remember.

Let's cross our fingers and hope we all get what we want and pair
Bourne and Cross in the next film.

There is so much more going on than just Jason Bourne and if we don't
get to explore that then the franchise will be poorer for it!
<|_=00=_|>
Pointless entry into the Bourne series finds Jeremy Renner and Rachel
Weisz taking over where Matt Damon left off in a sequel that lacks not
only a real purpose to exist but lacks a script that can justify the
movie as a continuation of the series. Tony Gilroy (who had a hand in
screen writing the original three films) writes and directs this entry
but forgets the showmanship and grace that Paul Greengrass and Doug
Liman brought to the series, not to mention the solid storytelling that
came with their efforts. Jeremy Renner and Rachel Weisz tried their
best with the weak material Gilroy provides for them and they almost
succeed, giving the audience something to care for but they are
fighting an uphill battle against cliché one dimensional characters,
dismal screen writing, a running time that needed to be edited down and
amateurish direction that does no one any favors. The rest of the cast
barely registers at all and the action is not even on the same level of
the other films in the series.

If any blame should go around, it should go squarely to Tony Gilroy and
his brothers, who seem like they had no idea on what the hell they were
doing and in the process, wasted the time of two great actors (Renner
and Weisz) who are working beyond what is necessary to give the fans
the respect they deserve for staying with the series. This was a hard
thing to do considering that they are working with nothing in terms of
support.
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Bourne is one of the more intriguing film characters of the past
decade. He methodically and purposefully found out who he was, who was
responsible for his condition, and attempted to bring everything back
together again. Even better, he was not a superhero; Jason was just a
guy who went through a lot of training. He is elite, but deep down he
is still one of us. Aaron Cross (Jeremy Renner), on the other hand, has
been tweaked a little bit. He pops pills to up his physical and mental
skills. Yes, he is still human too, but perhaps a bit genetically
modified. This splash of sci/fi does not help an audience tuned in to
the adventures of Jason Bourne connect with the new guy.

When I first heard there was another Bourne installment, this time
without Matt Damon, I figured someone either wrote a good script to
carry on a new story line, or the studio wanted to churn out a
guaranteed cash cow under the title of a proved and successful action
series. Writer/director Tony Gilroy wrote the scripts for the first
three Bourne films, but this is his first time behind the camera in the
series. He successfully directed Michael Clayton and the under-
appreciated Duplicity, but now the magic is gone. The Bourne Legacy is
stale. 

Enduring a painfully slow beginning, The Bourne Legacy reveals it is
set at the same point in time as The Bourne Ultimatum. In fact, if you
have forgotten the plot points and supporting characters of the
previous film, take the time to either watch it again or read about it
online before heading into the new feature. Jason Bourne's escapades
have thrown multiple CIA operations out in the open and the shadowy
powers are frantically trying to sweep them under the rug before either
Congress or the press start asking questions. Eric Byer (Edward Norton)
orders the termination of Project Outcome, the new series of super
agent represented by Aaron Cross. Instead of telling the agents to pack
up and go home, the CIA chooses to assassinate them instead. Oh, and
they try to wipe out all of the scientists who made them so super in
the first place.

Dr. Marta Shearing (Rachel Weisz) is one of those scientists seeking
ways to alter chromosomes to make a more perfect human. After surviving
annihilation himself, Aaron conveniently scoops the good Dr. out of
harms way which sets up an 'us against them' theme quite similar to the
one you remember from The Bourne Identity. Unfortunately, The Bourne
Legacy noticeably lacks the quality script and thrilling action
sequences of that first film. The chase scenes in the new film are
edited so atrociously, especially during motorcycle elements, that they
are almost impossible to logically follow. You know they are weaving in
and out of traffic, there are near misses, and flying bullets; but
there are only quick glimpses of that on the screen in the midst of the
unsteady camera work and split-second jump cuts.

The Bourne Identity also had a mystery to unravel and wandered around
the world trying to find out who was behind the curtain. There is no
curtain now, Edward Norton is pulling the strings in plain sight using
all of the means in the intelligence community he can lay his hands on.
There are armed Predator drones, devious mop-up CIA killing squads, and
even a possible super- duper agent; imagine the Schwarzenegger
Terminator battling the new T-1000. 

Renner and Weisz do their best to remake a film which was already
pretty great. Yes, they have new names and faces, but they are running
from the same agency, dodging the same bullets, but this time they have
a higher chromosomal level on their side. The Bourne Legacy will be
known as that film which derailed the very respectable Bourne
franchise. Paul Greengrass, the director of The Bourne Supremacy and
The Bourne Ultimatum, was correct when he said any further film would
feel like The Bourne Redundancy.
<|_=00=_|>
There is never just one. We've reached our fourth globe-trotting
adventure based on the novels of the late Robert Ludlum, and the first
without former series lead Matt Damon as the enigmatic superspy Jason
Bourne. With its name taken from a 2004 installment not actually penned
by Ludlum, The Bourne Legacy explores the ripple effect of the events
that played out in The Bourne Ultimatum. While little could be done to
cushion the drop in quality that was bound to come with well, anything,
that followed that near-masterpiece of action, Jeremy Renner makes an
apt substitute and the thrills, wit and set pieces are all top notch,
even if it won't quite have audiences asking, "Jason who?" 

In the mischievous and highly top secret world of clandestine CIA
superspy programs, the program previously known as Treadstone has once
again morphed  from Treadstone to Blackbriar and now to Outcome
(officially known as Alcom), a bio-weapons division in New York State
that operates under the ruse of a pharmaceutical research firm. It is
through this project that Rachel Weisz's Dr. Marta Shearing crosses
path with Outcome agent Aaron Cross, as her employer's cloak-and-dagger
endeavors supply its agent with viral treatments that boost both
physical and mental efficiency. 

While on a training procedure in Alaska, Cross is nearly assassinated
by his own people after it's been decided by the powers that be that
Jason Bourne's actions in "Ultimatum" have metastasized beyond repair
and all outlying assets must be eliminated (including Dr. Shearing and
her peers). Going on the run is one thing for Cross, but now without
the pills he has been taking to keep himself stimulated, he faces the
threat of crashing like a lifetime heroine addict gone cold turkey  a
dire situation which would indefinitely lead to his  and the doctor's
 death. 

With Tony Gilroy, some will be relieved to be done with the shaky cam
approach of Paul Greengrass but what does remain intact is Gilroy's
dense, jargon-filled dialogue that even if being dumb, always sounds so
incredibly smart. There is certainly no mistaking that this is a film
from this universe. 

The Bourne Legacy is easily the goriest of the bunch and at times
really pushes the envelope when it comes to a PG-13 rating. As
evidenced in the trailers, there is an early-set shooting involving
Weisz's character and it is quite disturbing and effective in its
robotic ruthlessness. Forget the controversial scene in Gangster Squad
that is being reshot due to the Aurora, Colo. shootings, this sequence
is bound to give anyone close to that event vivid flashbacks. And
speaking of Weisz, even in her quiet moments (and she has plenty of
loud and quiet) she steals her show coming off as both devastated and
strong and nimbly sidesteps the oft- seen trope of the shrieking
helpless female victim.

Gilroy's foray has a number of inspired instances, and though "Legacy"
could have used about 15 minutes of trimming, it never bores. There are
a number of intense and well-choreographed sequences that aptly
showcase Cross' lethality and they're presented with enough frequency
amidst the bureaucracy. An electric and immensely entertaining sequence
takes place back when Cross is back in Alaska and attempting to avoid a
quick death both by a military drone and a pack of wolves. I won't
spoil anything, but it puts a whole new spin on the "slip your GPS
tracker so your pursuers think you're somewhere else" cliché. 

At other times, however, it seems like Gilroy is just going down the
"Bourne" checklist even down to playing Moby's "Extreme Ways" at the
end credits (I was really glad about that, actually). Bourne beats up
some unsuspecting guards  check. Bourne engages in an extended car
chase in an exotic location  check. Bourne evades capture by running
along rooftops  check. Another agent is sent to eliminate Bourne 
check. The only "check" missing is the inclusion of the man himself.
However, in lieu of giving us an utter deconstruction of the series (or
nothing at all), why should we be disappointed that The Bourne Legacy
gives us everything we could expect (and at times quite a bit more)?

It also becomes clear pretty early on that Damon's Bourne is not the
only one who has been given a redux. David Strathairn's Noah Vosen (who
is under investigation following his attempted cover-up) has been given
the form of Edward Norton's Eric Byer and Joan Allen's Pamela Landy
(who is also having problems with her "treason" as it were) effectively
with Donna Murphy's Dita Mandy (only changed one letter in the last
name there). It's safe to say, despite strong performances, they feel
like a downgrade when recalling the fiery antagonism shared with Vosen
and Landy in The Bourne Ultimatum.

One thing The Bourne Legacy makes utterly clear is that at the
distinguished age of 41, Jeremy Renner has proved himself to be a
formidable action hero, both bringing a classic look to Cross but also
matching Damon in displays of physicality and athleticism. He has now
proved his leading man potential and I look forward to Renner
headlining further action adventures (be it in this series or others). 

But after all the conspiracies have been unmasked and the last bullet
drained, I still couldn't help but miss Damon in the lead role. We all
knew how great he was as Jason Bourne, but it would seem that I at
least took his work for granted, perhaps failing to truly appreciate
how magnetic he was in his ass-kickery. Let's hope Damon comes to miss
his involvement and teams up with Renner in future missions, because
that would be an on-screen duo worthy of all kinds of legacies.
<|_=00=_|>
In a way I think this film disgraces the Bourne series, and here's why:
it simply did not have the feel of a Bourne movie. Between awkwardly
chosen locations, some sci-fi drug twist, and and incredibly
over-simplified and at times dull plot line, this is hardly an action
movie, let alone a Bourne movie. Also, and this part really bothered
me, I feel like Tony and Dan Gilroy did things with some of the Bourne
characters that were not true to Robert Ludlum's vision, even going so
far as to change the initiation program and the amount of information
leaked at the end of Ultimatum. 

Secondly, the direction was very close up the entire time, and during
many of the chase scenes I found myself unable to watch. The entire
time it is very shaky, and because of the closeness, it's difficult to
get the whole picture of what's going on.

Lastly, some of the acting wasn't very good. I've never liked Jeremy
Renner, and this movie didn't change my opinion on him. It's not that
he's a bad actor, it's just that I don't like him as an actor. Edward
Norton, though, was incredibly stiff and robotic the whole time, as
were some of the other government workers. The best performance was
probably from Rachel Weisz, who did well as a woman trying to deal with
shock and guilt. 

If you happen to like almost all action movie, go ahead and watch this,
but if you're a Bourne fan, I wouldn't bother wasting your and
tarnishing some aspects of the past movies.
<|_=00=_|>
It is understandable that there is a difference of opinion about THE
BOURNE LEGACY, but comparing it to the original three Jason Bourne
movies is unfair. This is a 'legacy' left by the environment in which
Jas Bourne was hatched an as such, for this reviewer, it works very
well. The film is beautifully shot in superb cinematography, has a
series of tight incidents that demand explanation but which get little
due to the fact that this is a spy film about the various intelligence
agency and occult secret scientific projects that are always in
progress in every country. It is an expansion of the universe from
Robert Ludlum's novels, centered on a new hero whose stakes have been
triggered by the events of the previous three films.

As someone distilled the plot, 'this film deals with the fall out of
the exposure of "Operation Blackbriar" and how an another agency with
in the government is trying to cover up their program in order not to
be caught up with the coming scandal create by Jason Bourne. "Outcome",
the program in question is an offshoot of both "Treadstone" and
"Blackbriar" but with a huge difference, they are tabbing into science
to create super agents that are faster and stronger than any other
agent before them.' 

Suffice it to say that the new cast handles this very obtuse plot with
a high degree of fine acting. Jeremy Renner is excellent, always
reminding us of his humanity while he flies around in incredibly
impossible flight situations. The extraordinary Rachel Weisz brings a
complex role into the realm of credibility. The solid support cast
includes the always excellent Edward Norton, Scott Glenn, Stacy Keach,
Albert Finney, Oscar Isaac, David Strathairn, and Joan Allen just to
keep the balance form the previous Bourne films in place.

The speed of the action, the poundingly purposeful musical score and
the non-stop fascinating twists and turns make this a top-notch film.
It does carry on the 'legacy' of Ludlum's ideas, but manages to hold
its own without too much replay of the originals. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Ouch. I wish Greengrass directed this film, because to me it felt like
a mess. Had a good idea with a solid backing, but it failed to take
advantage of it. I like that they intertwined the story within the
Ultimatum storyline like you see in the preview as well as playing
homage to the original series, but the execution sucked not to mention
that the Bourne events had no influence on Cross' character - something
that "Legacy" would suggest. The storytelling felt disjointed, and the
action sequences had way too much camera shake to enjoy them (the first
trilogy wasn't so bad). Other than Manila, and the solitude of Alaska,
location is one trademark of the legacy that just wasn't there. In the
first three films, the assassins didn't need to speak to have
personality and character - this film's assassin was just a ghost in
your memory.

Even though not directly stated, I think most people would understand
by watching this film what MAY have actually happened to Jason Bourne.
The only way this film will have any more meaning is if they continue
the new trilogy.
