
Don't go into this expecting a comedy, even though that is one of the
tags on the IMDb page. Though it does have elements of dark comedy.

This is not a lighthearted movie, to say the least; yet I would
describe it as powerful and very "real." It is the complete opposite of
a fairy tale and the complete opposite of romantic comedies - and that
is very refreshing. It will cause you to think long and hard about your
own relationships. You will continue to think about the movie long
after you have left the theater.

If you like thought provoking movies that have very authentic
characters and story lines, then I recommend this movie for you. The
movie isn't all dark, it does have it's lighthearted moments and I felt
it did a great job building the emotion as the movie went on.
<|_=00=_|>
I was invited to this film at the last minute and had no idea what it
was about. I was surprised to find it was about relationships and loss,
not action and adventure. Jean- Marc Vallée sets the scene with a
haphazard, dated Technicolor palette, even in the hospital and
contrasts it with the cold tones, shapes and the crispness of Davis'
house. The coldness is a kind of veneer or ice that has settled on the
main character and the complex stages of reaction to loss that Davis
(Gyllenhaal) goes through are the heart of this film. It has a kind of
edgy subtlety that slides into crazy in just the right way. I loved the
"rock and roll" soundtrack as Vallée put it.

A strong cast and story has made an entertaining and thought provoking
film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Together, they would watch everything that was so carefully planned
collapse, and they would smile at the beauty of destruction." Markus
Zusak, The Book Thief

Sometimes all you need is one piece to fall off the seemingly perfect
construct you've built around yourself. Only then, you'll realize
what's been long buried beneath and almost forgotten. That one piece
was the tragic death of Davis' wife in a car accident in the revelatory
opening sequence of Demolition.

Davis (Jake Gyllenhaal) is a young banker who is married to Julia, his
boss's daughter, and, from an outsider's point of view, seems to have
his life all figured out. Davis' subsequent emotional numbness and
irrational behavior become a source of persistent annoyance to everyone
around him, leading him to realize his own metaphorical death which is
brought about by Julia's tragic, yet necessary, death  it is the one
piece that had to come apart so that Davis would notice the malfunction
of his ostensibly ideal life, just like the leaking fridge in his
kitchen. And this is when he decides to take everything in his life
apart to get to the bottom of who he really is and how he really feels.
On his journey of self- exploration, Davis crosses paths with Karen
(Naomi Watts), a customer service representative of a small vending
machines company, and her rebellious 15-year-old son, Chris (Judah
Lewis).

I don't think I ever wanted this movie to end. I've watched it twice so
far and I'm still overwhelmed by the emotional genius of both screen
writer Bryan Sipe and director Jean-Marc Vallée (Dallas Buyers Club,
Wild). Following Davis' course of thinking, I've been trying to take
things apart in this movie to understand why I loved it so much and why
I end up crying like babies every time, but I just can't put my hand on
one thing  it's simply everything. Not a single scene nor a single
line in Demolition felt redundant or slightly detaching; they are all
beautifully connected like notes in a musical piece, all leading up in
an emotional crescendo to an inevitable coda that lingers way after the
film ends. And despite the excessive use of montage, it all felt
natural and poetic in a way. This is one film made with passion.

Peering into the nature of human relationships is extremely difficult,
not to mention trying to dismantle them. That's why Davis' fumbling
through his existential ordeal changes from irrational to funny to
understandable to incredibly relatable. We don't only take pleasure in
watching Davis taking his life apart but we envy him for this
melancholic yet euphoric realization of the truth that usually comes
after destruction, and which we all yearn for in one way or another.
Destroying entails thinking in retrospect, necessarily resulting in
painful regret but one that is usually accompanied by blissful
realization. Few are the movies that manage to go that deep into human
relationships and come back with a bittersweet sense of salvation.
Also, the unlikely relationship between Davis, Karen and her son Chris
becomes a psychological shelter for the three emotionally misled
characters where they get to nurture their empathy and readjust their
inner compasses.

The chemistry between Jake Gyllenhaal and Judah Lewis is undeniable,
and is highlighted by Sipe's witty script and both actors' topnotch
performance. Gyllenhaal's growing acting skills are literally getting
out of control (and I mean it in a good way). I don't think anyone
could have portrayed Davis as harmoniously as he did, putting you in
tears while bringing a smile to your face. After Enemy, Nightcrawler,
and Southpaw, Gyllenhaal is slowly and steadily becoming one of the
smartest and most talented actors today.

One more thing that makes this experience unforgettable is the music.
I've mentioned before that this is a film made with passion, and
nothing can give voice to passion as much as music does. I will not
talk about the brilliant choices of songs and the perfect song-scene
synchronization because that will only make sense when you watch the
film.

Demolition will leave you miserably heavy-hearted but spiritually
elevated beyond words.

I give it 10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
FYI: I don't review a lot of movies, except when I feel like I need to
tell the world about how they would be missing out if they decided not
to watch it. That's how I feel about Demolition. Plus, I've never voted
for a 10/10.

Jake Gyllenhaal steals the show, once more. His performance astounds me
in every single movie, and just when I thought, oh this may be the
first movie I'll watch where he'll disappoint; he does the opposite. I
also think that the trailer is way less exciting than the movie. 

This story is so honest, refreshing, naked, thrilling, and yet dreamy
at the same time. Most of the movie I was sort jealous of them, of the
way they are dealing with life. It's disturbing and quite wacky to be
honest, but still. The way Naomi Watts and Jake Gyllenhaal portray the
characters is phenomenal. Great casting. Also the kid does an amazing
job. 

This movie portrays how people are far from perfect, and not in a way
we've all seen before. It's original, moving, and a pleasure to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie without really knowing its pitch or genre.
Increasingly, I feel this is the best way to enjoy a feature film, as
trailers reveal more and more of the story, going as far as basically
spoiling major plot points and leaving nothing to the imagination. A
movie trailer should reveal as little as possible but still tease your
interest. Good trailers are works of art in their own right : they have
their own story and may even use footage that won't appear in the
finished movie.

Anyway, all I knew about "Demolition" was that it tells the story of a
guy who has to cope with the loss of his wife and, because of that
title, I supposed that he was going to loose his mind and that his life
was slowly going to spiral out of control. Kind of like 1993's "Falling
Down" with Michael Douglas.

While it is true that there is a fair bit of demolition (literally) and
quirkiness involved, ultimately this movie is about a man
deconstructing his life, demolishing his prejudices in order to find
his true self. Once again, Gyllenhaal truly inhabits his character and
delivers a remarkable performance, almost as good as his Oscar-worthy
role in "Nightcrawler" (which was inexplicably snubbed by the Academy).
Gyllenhaal is slowly becoming one of the most talented actors in
Hollywood these days! Although the rest of the cast is quite good --
especially the young Judah Lewis -- I'm not sure this film would have
worked without him.

All in all, a strange yet interesting film. 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Demolition is an amazing movie, combining several intertwined lines all
connecting at the end. There were some heavy and sensitive issues
tackled by this film and they did an awesome job.

I thought the script was well written. I must admit, I didn't see parts
of it coming toward the end.

I thought the acting was outstanding. Jake keeps himself in incredible
shape and he needed to for this role. It was very physical in parts.
His character, you have to feel for him and what he is going through,
losing his partner. Chris Cooper is one amazing actor. There are bits
where the water works almost turn on. Just amazing.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into watching this movie with no expectations, without even
seeing the trailer and trust me that's the best way of seeing this
film. Demolition shocks you in the beginning and then you can follow a
numb recovery mixed with dark humour, where someone has to deal with
losing a person closest to them. While trying to move forward the Davis
also has to look back into his life and relationship to make sense of
it all.

The acting is superb especially on the part of Jake Gyllenhaal and it
engulfs you in a sea of varying emotions where sometimes you're
laughing and then you might be crying.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel like it had so much potential in the story and characters. As it
is, it's just a very jumbled mess, with some really questionable
editing. I do find Jake Gyllenhaal's character really intriguing
though, and I thought he did some really strong work. I just wish it
had a better grasp on the characters. I can't say I didn't find it very
watchable though, and I would say it's better than many of the reviews
suggest. I hope Jake can get some end-of-the-year traction for this,
but I really doubt it. He's endlessly fascinating and very mesmerizing,
and definitely carries the film more than the screenplay does. Not
sure, perhaps this is a film only a select few will enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Choppy editing issues, But superb.

For starters the film has some incredible acting...Jake is utterly
convincing in his role as a selfish and seemingly heartless individual
devoid of emotion until tragedy entails. The pick up in his thought
process is a slow but necessary approach as his mental health issues
pick up subtle but convincing time frames and the viewer is left a
50/50 decision on whether you actually like him or not. This is no mean
feat for an actor with such a tragic story line and he pulls it off
brilliantly.

I would however of liked the mental health issues that surround the
process of grief further explored and a stronger message to go out to
the audience that grief manifests in so many individual ways that you
are never wrong with the way you feel...Its a very precious and
intimate individual process.

Naomi Watts character is a little bizarre and almost unnecessary in my
view but I will not spoil anything here.

A good just under two hours spent in my opinion with a a lot of
thinking to continue for the rest of the evening. A solid 7/10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>
This guy is great, his career got of to a bit of a slow start with some
of his early work but he still seem to catch a few decent ones. Now it
seems he will disappear for a while then come out with a smash. This
guy is up there with the best of them and he is in my top 10 favorites.

Normally i don't fallow movies very close, i spend time tinkering or
reading on line and if a movie catches my attention then i get into it.
This one grabbed me from the start and held on to the end.

They kept the suspense with the station wagon and it kept me wondering
on who it my be and their intent but it wasn't what i thought and was a
nice surprise.
