
Hollywood is great at letting us participate in the victories of those
who conquer long odds, whether it's sports movies in which the underdog
wins the championship or even movies about unlikely romantic pairings
(geek meets beauty) that end happily in, say, a wedding. But we see few
movies about the joy we feel in conquering the mundane - like in making
a marriage work after both sides have lost the motivation to do so.

This is a movie that shows us how hard it is to revive a near-dead
marriage, and why it matters so much. Yes, there is a religious context
to the movie. A partner in a healthy marriage, we are shown, struggles
to emulate the selfless love and service of Jesus by loving and serving
his or her spouse, as Jesus would. But the religious aspects of the
movie ought not keep away those who are religion-averse. Selfless love
and service as the keys to a joyful marriage are not exclusive to any
religion.

A great movie for married couples - very thought provoking.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's how this film "imitates life": if you LOOK for flaws, you'll
find some, but if you look for blessings, ways to challenge yourself
and opportunities to grow, you just may find those, too.

The action sequences are exceptionally well done. A few good laughs are
sprinkled in for good measure. Come Oscar time, you won't hear a word
about "Fireproof", but come anniversary time, you'll be glad you and
your spouse saw it.

This film will not resonate with everyone, especially if you approach
it from the mindset that there are no simple truths. But anyone with a
less-than-perfect marriage could benefit from seeing it--and that
includes all of us, doesn't it!?
<|_=00=_|>
Making a movie that tackles real life marriage problems head on is
challenging, and not always easy to watch. Horror, violence, spoofs,
fantasy, love stories, biographies offer easy escapes. Fireproof
exposes the isolation that can occur between 2 people who started out
loving each other, but over time disconnect, become self-absorbed and
fall into a pattern of hurting each other. The relational pain finds
some comic relief, and there is a job-related diversion. But help comes
in the form of a 40 day dare to love. While you may not agree with the
faith-based approach, there is no doubt that unconditional love is
transforming. I was deeply moved... enough to take the dare myself.
<|_=00=_|>
When I received an invitation to attend a screening of this film I
though to myself, "Oh great Another one of those low budget Christian
films that's poorly scripted and has sub-par acting." After watching
the film I am pleased to say that I couldn't have been more wrong.

I was impressed by how well they portrayed everyday struggles and
temptations instead of going out on a limb with plot elements that
weren't relevant to the everyday person. It was easy to relate to the
characters, to feel their hope and disappointment. At the same time,
they added larger-than-life aspects that created suspense and made for
a very entertaining movie experience.

Most notably, I thought the movie showed the value of marriage and
communicated hope that each of us could enjoy a more fulfilling
marriage relationship if we were willing to make personal choices to
achieve it.
<|_=00=_|>
I found Fireproof to be entertaining as well in convicting. Most of the
acting was realistic and sincere, even if it was not professional.
Within a very short time the story had me so involved in the characters
lives that any minor flaws were not noticed. As in their previous
movies, the Kendricks brothers had me crying, laughing, cheering, and,
during the action sequences, on the edge of my seat.

Being a Christian, I was not turned off by the message(s) of faith in
Christ that are an inherent part of Sherwood Pictures productions, and
I didn't feel like that aspect of the movie was being shoved down my
throat. It is presented, laid out before the audience, and is there for
you to take it or leave it. If you find occasional conversations about
God, Jesus, or spiritual matters offensive, then be warned, you may be
offended on occasion. I'm sure there are plenty of movies at your
theater that push loose morals, profanity, and obscenity that you can
choose if this is not your cup of tea. But if a message of being good,
kind, and loving doesn't frighten you, I highly recommend this movie.

At times I saw myself on the screen, as most of us can relate to some
level of tension in marriage (or any relationship). The principles
behind the message can work in most situations  whether or not you are
a Christian. And I believe people of any marital status can learn
valuable lessons from this movie and be entertained at the same time.

An interesting side note - I heard in a couple different interviews
that Kirk Cameron auditioned for this part like all of the other
volunteer actors, AND was a willing volunteer himself - pretty much
quieting the skeptics who claim he (and others) were making this movie
to line their pockets.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from seeing this movie opening night. Of the 300 seats,
100 of them were presold and we were told to get there early. I was
excited to hear that so many people were supporting this movie on its
opening weekend. It's message will hit close to home with so many
people. With the high divorce rate these days, I agree that all people
should view this movie. I'm not married myself, but it touched me so
much because I saw in it the relationship my parent's have had for
years. And while it focuses on the husband changing his ways in order
to win back his wife, it also touches on wives changing their ways to
win back their husbands. There may be many stereotypes shown in this
movie, but that comes with movies trying to touch the world. Without
stereotypes, we might not understand it so well.

Overall ratings: Plot - 10, Cinematography - 9, Acting - 6 (due to
using only one professional actor, kudos to the church members for
holding their own)
<|_=00=_|>
I am a born-again Christian. I am also somewhat of a film snob who
counts movies among his favorites that are decidedly R rated (I have no
problem with sin being presented in movies as long as it's not
presented as something good), and some of my favorites are over 100
years old. Just to let you know where this review is coming from.

With "Fireproof" the Kendrick brothers have matured. Their first film,
"Flywheel," was a wonderful story with almost no budget, and
amateurishly done. Then came "Facing the Giants," which was pretty good
but ultimately forgettable. "Fireproof" finally puts together solid
production values, mostly topnotch acting, and a very nicely written
script that includes some clever plot twists.

Yes, it is explicitly Christian in its message. Yes, it upholds the
sanctity of marriage and celebrates a man fighting for all he's worth
to win the love of a wife who's filing for divorce. Yes, there are two
or three moments where the sentimentality goes just a bit over the top.

If any of these statements about "Fireproof" close your mind to it,
that's your loss, but God bless you as you pass on this one to go see
something lighter or edgier. But I promise you, I was very pleasantly
surprised at just how good this film is.

Highly recommended for anyone old enough to appreciate the opposite
sex.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I review this film, I think you should know how I'm approaching
this. I'm an Evangelical Quaker (basically, a Christian who believes
that you can reach anyone by being understanding, compassionate, and
loving without thumping their head with a Bible) and my father, at one
time, was a pastor of a church plant. My faith, even though I abandoned
it for about six months and became an Objectivist (an atheist who
believes in individualism), has gotten me far in life. I suffer from
Bipolar disorder, and if you know anything about that would know that
having this illness is a truly horrible thing. God is the only thing in
my life that has been constantly helping me out in times of crisis. I
have seen and been in relationships torn apart by addictions. I also
want to be a film director someday. On top of that, I write short
stories and novels in my free time. I've studied the craft of good
storytelling and I can recognize it when I see it.

Now... on to the review... To put it as blunt as possible: Fireproof is
for Christians who are really well off in their faith and have not
encountered anything truly wounding to them. It's not their fault, I
know, but the fact that film makers are making money off of them for
money really ticks me off. Christians are a really easy market to milk.
Every artist knows that. Why? Well, make a mediocre movie that's
politically correct, doesn't offend anyone, and put Jesus' name in it
and you'll soon find out. People, especially Christians, are so easily
mislead to believe that just because the people who made the movie
share their beliefs that it must be good even though the film's clearly
bad. I love the premise of it. The idea of sticking by your partner and
helping him or her out because you know that it can work out in the end
is really rare nowadays. But they deliver it so poorly that it's
laughable. And if you think that I'm being somehow "anti-Christian" and
that this movie is flawless, let me point out all the things in this
movie that are flawed: 1) The conversations between the firefighters is
so unrealistic. No curse words at a fire department filled with men? I
mean... really? 2) If a guy found out that his wife was flirting with
someone at the office with an intent on cheating, his first response
should be to take a shotgun, go down where he works and stick it under
his chin and say something like: "I'm going to blow your brains all
over the wall if you touch her again." You do not show him your wedding
ring and say, "Stay away from her or... or... I'll say something even
more mean!" Whoo! You tell him, Mr. Firefighter! You tell that mean
doctor! 3) You do not get over addictions instantly after being
converted. It's a long and hard process. That is a myth that this movie
is producing that I have a huge problem with. 4) People do NOT treat
you with respect for getting religion of any kind. They will
manipulate, mock, and even threaten you for your faith. 

Every time Christians tell me this is one of the greatest movies ever
made, I die a little inside. But when a truly Christian movie comes
along (like Walk the Line or The Road), they ignore it because people
say it isn't "Christian" enough. Nonbelievers clearly see the
contradictions in that. These are the types of Christian movies that
people should look up to instead of this trash:

Tender Mercies (1983) Deals with the theme that some people need to be
polished with love in order to change.

The Road (2009) Deals with the theme of persevering in the harshest
circumstances presented to you. This was marketed towards Christians to
show how the world will be like when the church is next to
non-existent. The father-son relationship is a metaphor for passing the
torch on to the next generation.

I Am Legend (2007) Deals with the theme of losing everything in your
life and then regaining it again and realizing God's love.

The Exorcism of Emily Rose (2005) Asks the question of how people
ignore God when they have seen the Devil.

Walk the Line (2005) Again, deals with the theme that some people need
to be polished with love in order to change. Christians complained this
wasn't "Christian" enough even though it clearly shows Johnny Cash's
faith after he's gotten clean through his actions.

Signs (2002) Deals with the theme of losing everything and losing
faith. In this case, a preacher losing his wife. If you hate M. Night
Shyamalan a lot, ignore the fact that he made this movie. You'll thank
me for it.

I could go on and on. The point? These movies were well done, had great
quality, and produced a very strong Christian message. Churches ignored
them because they weren't up to their impossible standard of being
politically correct and non-offensive and still having good quality. It
just can't happen. Why are Christians so afraid to show the brutality
of life without God? It doesn't make sense to me... and it never will.

I could go on and on about this, but I think truly open-minded people,
no matter what their faith, will get what I'm saying. 

God bless, -HorrorWriter7493
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is in the same honest, non-glitzy, straightforward style of
its predecessor from the same team, "Facing the Giants," a film I
loved. It tells the story of a marriage headed for dissolution, which
is turned around when the husband makes a commitment to God and his
wife. Kirk Cameron is a revelation (and if you saw him as a cocky
sitcom star in "Growing Pains" in the late 80s/early 90s you will be
amazed) as the fireman husband who gets respect everywhere but at home,
and has never asked himself if he deserves it. At the urging of his
father, he agrees to take forty days before seeking divorce, and work
through a book called "The Love Dare." This book offers a new
suggestion for deepening the love relationship to be followed every
day, together with short, related Bible verses. At first Cameron's
character just goes through the motions, but as time goes by, helped by
his parents and a fellow fireman, his love is transformed and renewed.
Is it to late to reach his alienated wife?

Uplifting but real, the movie will inspire many married people to
commit more deeply to their marriages. Truly worthwhile.
<|_=00=_|>
there are 3 Main things that i hate about this movie, and if you look
at how the genders voted on this movie you will see why women love this
movie and most men didn't like it.

1. I get tired of everyone trying to fix him, doesn't anyone listen to
his problems. It really hacks me off that Christians try to fix
everyone instead of listening. and this movie has lots of fixing. even
people who don't have a relationship with the main characters try to
fix. IE the nurse talking to the wife towards the end of the movie.
OMG! earn the right to speak into someones life.

2. She didn't do anything to help their marriage. the movie portrayed
everything as being his fault. anyone who's been in a tough marriage
knows that both sides do their part to make things worse. she isn't
free from being just as guilty as he is. The church, and this movie has
told men a lie for far too long..... That they have to earn respect,
and freely give love. I disagree, i think that men should freely give
Love to their wives, but wives should freely give respect to their
husbands. that is the #1 need in each gender, why do men have to work
so hard to gain respect, but also work so hard to show love. this movie
put all the responsibility on the husband, and none on the wife.

3. this is by far the thing i hated most about it. She was flirting
with another man.... allot!!! and she never apologizes for it. What
kind of message are we sending wives?? that is OK to flirt around if
the husband isn't loving enough? the husband apologizes for all his
crap, and not once does she ever say that she is sorry.

once again its all up to the man to fix everything. i wish they could
make a realistic movie. the divorce movie with Bruce Willis was better
than this. "the story of us"
