
A personal aide to the U.S. Ambassador in France, James Reese (Jonathan
Rhys Meyers) has an enviable life in Paris and a beautiful French
girlfriend, but his real passion is his side job as a low-level
operative for the CIA. All James wants is to become a bona fide agent
and see some real action. So when he's offered his first senior-level
assignment, he can't believe his good luck - until he meets his new
partner, special agent Charlie Wax (John Travolta)...

From Paris With Love is an unrealistic, over-the-top action flick. The
plot is extremely silly, the story quite implausible, and the action
scenes are absolutely ridiculous not to mention that you can see the
twist coming from the beginning.Both Travolta and Jonathan Rhys Meyers
deliver good performances and they had good chemistry but at the same
time their characters are paper-thin and were poorly written. Something
that appalled me was the editing of the film and the transition between
some scenes. I thought it was rather choppy and not something I would
expect from experienced directors like Luc Besson and Pierre Morel. The
film does have its moments and can be quite entertaining at times but
if you're expecting something along the lines of Morel's last film,
Taken, which was a well thought and realistic action-thriller then
you're gonna be extremely disappointed. Recommended for action junkies
only.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is basically about two guys going around blowing stuff up in
Paris. And the plot of them trying to take down a terrorist
organization is just there to move the movie along because, even for
films like this there has to be some sort of plot. And everything in
this is nothing you haven't seen before with the explosions and gun
fights and all, but something about the film just makes it pretty damn
entertaining. I mean the plot with the by the book dude teaming up with
a loose cannon crazy guy has been done before, but the elements of bad
ass and witty and fast paced dialogue and maybe some other stuff makes
it really entertaining to watch, even if the twist near the end was
pretty predictable as the rest of the movie. Jonathan Rhys Meyers who
plays a character that plays by the book was pretty boring and he takes
up the first few couple of minutes of the movie, but when John Travolta
comes in, well lets just say it's one hell of a ride. He basically
plays Charlie Wax, a reckless guy that is a bit crazy but always gets
things done. Just turn your brain off and enjoy this movie for what it
is, not every film has to be smart to be enjoyable.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's John Travolta like you have never seen him before. Here he is
Mister Action, the ultimate Tough Guy, the new Bruce Willis but with
more flair. The story itself is not particularly noteworthy. But there
is lots of action as Travolta shows everyone who's boss in this
action-packed special effects extravaganza. Also there is non-stop
violence with Mr. Travolta leading the way. If you like movies with
stories that feature nonstop violence, then this movie is for you. If
you like John Travolta, this movie is for you. But in terms of the
story, don't expect too much from this movie. Remember: it's a
commercial product so at some point artistic merit inevitably gives way
to the usual dose of special effects that Hollywood spews out like
clockwork. Hooray for John Travolta and Hollywood!
<|_=00=_|>
Pierre Morel & Luc Besson delivered one of the best action films of the
last decade, Taken. Even people who typically despise the action genre
were won over by it. So where do Pierre & Besson head from here? They
made the move to appeal solely to the action fan base. From Paris With
Love is made for genre fans, not your average movie-goer. The first 20
minutes are spent with Jonathan Rhys Meyers and it feels a little slow.
Once John Travolta's character comes into the story the film takes off
like a roller-coaster. His charisma gives the film an extra kick and it
gives much of the action a new flavor. Once the fun starts it doesn't
stop. Whenever you think this film is slowing down it's really getting
ready for the next shootout. You're on the edge of your seat until the
very end. Actually, one of my two complaints is the end (I won't spoil
anything). Let's just say the last 5 minutes feel a little rushed. If
you loved going to the theater to see Live Free Or Die Hard, Rambo, &
Taken than this is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Please be gentle, this is my first review.

First of all, Travolta is back! Since Pulp Fiction, where I really
enjoyed his play, I always had the feeling that his acting was about
skin-deep. What happened in this movie is an invention of a new
old-school action hero which would have stood in one line with Willis,
Stallone and Schwarzenegger without trying to be one of them. He's
powerful, funny and seriously "true" without being ridiculously
over-torqued like in Pelham 123 or Face-off.

Basically you need to enjoy old-school action movies to like this. The
storyline must have come to the writers mind while brushing his teeth
in the morning - It's solid, well grounded, but a little bit too
compressed for a 90 min movie. Concerning the speed of this movie, the
camera work is fantastic and the cut allows to enjoy the action at it's
fullest. (In the last years there were many movies of this type with a
cut/camera like a flip-book with missing pages, which made them
completely unenjoyable.) 

I would like to see more movies of this type in the next years. It's
not pretending to be more than what it is: Solid "hero-action" with a
proper sidekick.
<|_=00=_|>
A young spy who wants to get bigger and better jobs is partnered with
an American hot head with a foul mouth and a love for violence. The
mission is to stop some terrorists. 

To say I was expecting crap would be an understatement. Travolta's
goofy look, a tired clich√©d pairing of straight man and crazy partner,
senseless action that would try to cram a plot and story in at some
point. Yet, after the credits rolled, I sat there with a smile on my
face. As far as spy films go, this one takes a more action heavy side.
There are some cool and interesting gadgets, but I didn't get any James
Bond moment. 

Travolta surprised me here too. His character was funny, bad ass at
times and knew how to kick some ass. The only downside would be that I
just couldn't imagine Travolta doing half of these things. He's a great
character and fits perfectly with this film, but it seems a tad miscast
for the action sequences. Travolta nails every other part of the role.
Jonathan Rhys Meyers is the straight man to Travolta's crazy hero. This
is nothing new and the film doesn't try to step around this issue.
Instead it is upfront about it. It tells you exactly what you are in
for when you are introduced to these characters. All it asks is for
you, as a viewer, to enjoy the action and thrills this film wants to
give you.

The action is non-stop. Of course we are privy to those scenes in
between where we need to move the plot along, but the film has
shootouts, car chases, foot chases, rocket launchers, etc. It's handled
well and I was actually able to see the action on the screen. I was
never lost in the film, I knew where I was the whole time and what was
being depicted. Again, that one shortfall is that we know Travolta
isn't doing these action sequences, it's clearly a stuntman. 

With every spy film you know there will be some twist that someone is
not who they seem to be. I was able to pick this one out right from the
beginning. Again, the plot devices used in From Paris With Love are far
from original, we have all seen this film before. So why bother
watching it? For the chemistry between the two leads and the action
sequences in a beautiful city. The city, we unfortunately, did not see
enough of. 

I went in with low expectations and came out happy with the end result.
I would suggest you do the same.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't stand it when people start bashing an action comedy (yes,
that's what the flick is!!) for being unrealistic or not politically
correct!! If you wanted something realistic, then stick to the news
channels on TV or the COPS show... and if you wanted a politically
correct "information" then... well, just read the mainstream European
media where they avoid mentioning the ethnic background of the
perpetrators although you should be blind and/or completely ignorant
not to notice who they usually are! It was quite a tragic coincidence
that few days before I saw the film, two Muslim women from Chechenia
blew themselves up in the Moscow subway - a fact that gave a bitter
connotation to a twist in the film I would rather not elaborate on.
When I go to a film like this, I expect funny dialogs, improbable but
entertaining scenes plus a storyline that is not hard to follow - and
guess what, all these ingredients were there. Sure, the last part of
the story pushed my suspension of disbelief way past its limits and
reminded me of comic books for 8 year old boys but hey, nobody's
perfect... Definitely fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Would I watch this movie again? Yes I was not sure what to expect from
this movie. But, I decided to watch it. And long and behold, its one
which you should not miss if you are into guy movies like me. Lots of
action, good lines, fast pace and a bit of a story. What else can a guy
ask for? More hot chick scene? Action: Travolta has all the moves and
faster then all the bullets which blast by him. He kicks butt and then
some.

Speech and dialogue: There were one liners, yes. But the fast talking
Travolta was entertaining and was very complimentary with his co-stars
Chemistry and pace: The characters were good with each other. Meyers
and wife was good. Made me believe. The action and fast talking move
the movie along. From building to building, it was good to have
different locations to kill bad guys.

Story and Plot: Its all there in the synopsis, where a guy wants more
action and he got it.

Hotties and love scenes: just one simple scene 

Ending: Ending is good as I feel like it completed the movie. No real
loose ends. (I hate movies where the ending leaves you dissatisfied)
<|_=00=_|>
Reading some of the reviews above, I wonder If I mistakenly saw a
different film than the one described. Because the film I saw certainly
wasn't a "pacey, well-balanced action drama....well worth seeing." The
appearance of John Travolta heralded the beginning of a series of
completely implausible gunfights against an ill-defined enemy
(Chinese-Pakistani-drug-dealing-terrorists or something, I'm still not
quite sure). Come to think of it, anyone who wasn't an American with a
hand cannon turned out to be evil, or at the very least deserved to be
shot for getting in the way.

Travolta's character was completely ridiculous. Meant to be a Top
Secret Agent, Travolta acted more like a psychotic member of the Arian
Brotherhood than a CIA operative. "But he gets the job done," protested
the CIA handler on the Phone to Travolta's rookie partner. I guess
murdering half of Paris is a price you have to pay sometimes.

Things go from awful to completely unbelievable as the film reaches a
climax. Don't even try to work out why there is a rocket launcher in
the Secret Service car or why security at the African Convention is so
shockingly bad. There are no answers to these and innumerable other
questions. The Rookie (I can't remember his name) has one unanswered
question of his own, "Why did they bug my house...something doesn't add
up!" You're right there Pal...even the character are finding flaws in
the plot! The film ends (mercifully quickly) with the dumbest scene in
the movie...I won't ruin it for you.

Please don't go and see this film. Or if you do, take a bag of dog
excrement with so you've got something more interesting to look at
when, after about ten minutes, you've had enough.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is literally one wild ride from the beginning to end and
leaves little time for you to stop and catch your breath. It is purely
an action movie with characters that are in a league of their own
(though I wouldn't exactly call them well defined as this is an action
movie and not really meant to have any literary value). However, the
plot does twist, and events that occur at the beginning of the film
suddenly reveal their purpose as the film progresses (such as why James
Reece spends half the movie carting a vase full of cocaine around
Paris).

One could describe this as a coming of age type film, but it doesn't
really work like that. It isn't a teenager being given his first taste
of adult life, but rather a young diplomat who really wants to become
an undercover operative, and is given a chance to prove his worth.
Charlie Wax is probably more stereotypical than not (though I must
admit that John Travolta does play his quite well). Wax is a typical
operative who does things his own way, and not strictly by the book,
but he gets things done. Reece is very much a buy the book type of guy,
but he is thrown in with Wax to see that doing things strictly by the
book is not the best way of getting things done.

A lot of things are hidden from the viewer at the beginning of the
film, and it only starts to be revealed as the film progresses. I won't
say too much about the plot because it will destroy the value of a very
good film (though I have given a little bit too much away with regards
to the vase full of cocaine). In a sense it could be considered a tour
of Paris, but not the parts of Paris that your average tourist would
visit (and the only part of Paris that I visited that was in the movie
was the Eifel Tower, or that is at least what I can remember).

Yes, this is a spy movie, but it is a spy movie full of action. It is
not your typical Bourne Identity or James Bond type of spy movie. There
are machine gun fights galore, explosions, and car chases. I guess the
only thing that makes this film a spy movie is the fact that it has
spies in it. I guess that I all I really want to say about this film
because any more will simply give too much away. Oh, before I go, they
do have the Royale with Cheese in Paris, though it is not a Big Mac
(they have them as well).
