
This film is gonna have two sets of detractors. One set will be of
people dying to see George Lucas crash and burn because they didn't
like the prequels. The other will be people who, regardless of their
feelings about the previous movies will enter with an ill conceived
expectation for a great story. The rest of you, like me will have a
blast watching this thing.

This movie is basically an extended pilot for a soon to premiere
animated series and it plays as such. We are introduced to our
characters, some new and some old and watch them set out on missions
that take them through hair raising battle after hair raising battle.
There is no conclusion, yet no cliff hanger, just a solitary mission,
another day in the lives of Anakin Skywalker and Obi Wan Kenobi. In
other words, no attempt at any great earth shattering plot, just a lot
of good solid action and fun. Whether or not the TV series will develop
more complicated story arcs and sub plots is only known by its creators
right now, but its the simplicity that works here. I went into this
movie expecting nothing but big action, cool characters and a slick
look, and that's exactly what I got. The heart of the Star Wars
franchise has always been its fun, and this is a cartoon...they're
taking advantage of the opportunity to take the explosive larger than
life elements of the films and skew them to an altered animated
reality...which is what makes cartoons worth watching.

I loved the design of the whole thing too. It is very graphic and
unique and I can understand that it may not be everyone's cup of tea
but for me it's a great look. In a time when movie theaters are
saturated with CG animated fair, many of which are so concerned with
out doing one another with their increasingly real skin textures and
bump mapping, it's refreshing to see a film that wants to be different.
If you want something to look real, you might as well get a camera. For
those of you who thought this graphic simplistic look was some kinda
time/money saver, give yourself a shake, they wanted it to look this
way. And if you're an animator like myself...take note.

Bottom line, you're not gonna walk out of this movie a different
person, and its not gonna win any awards...but it's a hell of a lot of
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie fails on every level. It begins with, I kid you not, the
announcer from The Powerpuff Girl's voice replacing the opening crawl
we've come to know and love, presumably because the target audience,
American children, can't read at even that glacial pace. I don't know
if it's even necessary at this point to say something as redundant as
"this movie has a horrible script and stiff acting;" that's just
something we've come to expect with Star Wars in the last decade. But
even the battle sequences aren't enjoyable. Star Wars used to be the
cutting edge in visual effects; apparently the makers of this movie
haven't the ways in which computer animation have advanced in the last
decade. The character animations in this movie are worse than the
average video game. The movie has off-putting pacing, packing too much
into the first half, and dragging in the second. Everything that was
supposed to be funny was a dud, and everything that was supposed to be
serious garnered unwelcome guffaws from the audience. I have nothing
good to say about this movie.

The consensus seems to be that it's not fair to compare it to the real
Star Wars movies because it's intended for kids. That's just the thing
though; I don't want Star Wars to become something that I have to put
my brain on ice to enjoy from now on. A long time ago, George Lucas was
capable of putting out material that kids and adults could both enjoy,
that fanboys and the casual moviegoer could both enjoy, and no one
would have to suspend their sensibilities to have a good time. That's
what I want back.
<|_=00=_|>
It hurts me, physically, to say I disliked Star Wars: The Clone Wars. I
may not like to think it, but I have always been a Star Wars fanboy,
right from the moment I first lay eyes on Return of the Jedi. I was
never a huge fan of the TV series, but it did not seem too bad when I
did see it. Apparently, I should have been looking closer.

Star Wars: The Clone Wars as anyone could guess, follows Anakin
Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi during their stints as "army generals"
during the infamous Clone Wars. In the film, Skywalker (voiced by Matt
Lanter) is given a Padawan learner, the feisty Ahsoka Tano (voiced by
Ashley Eckstein), and given the mission of rescuing Jabba the Hutt's
son. He has been kidnapped, and in exchange for his safe return, Jabba
will aid the Republic during the war. But obviously, the job will not
be that easy.

Saying Star Wars: The Clone Wars mocks the very fabrics of the Star
Wars franchise does not even begin to explain how horrendous this movie
is. Take just about everything you could have disliked about the new
trilogy (and even things you may have from the original trilogy), and
it probably will not even come close to the destructive nature George
Lucas have brought us with this film (and subsequent new series).

For one thing, it seems that the casual one-liners of the series have
been amped up to being used every other sentence. All this new Ahsoka
character brings to the table, other than a lightsaber-sized gash
through the heart of continuity, are giggling one-liners. She even has
a nickname for Skywalker that she proceeds to use every time she is not
calling him Master (and for an even more inexplicable reason, he has
one for her). And then she has a name for R2-D2 and Jabba's son as well
('Stinky', which seems to be the only name he is ever really referred
to as). I realize that Star Wars was never one for being perfect with
their dialogue, but save for Jar Jar Binks (who does not make any
appearances in the film), I do not think I have ever been more annoyed
by any character more than this one. It is like the writers (who
surprisingly are not Lucas) did away with anything we have learned
about Jedis, and gave us this irritating wise-ass. Sure there was a
cuteness to her character, but she loses that after about five minutes
of screen time.

Even worse, the Battle Droids just seem to be here for comic relief. I
was always under the belief they just spoke their directives. But
somehow, someway, they actually talk to each other, and say the most
ridiculous things to each other. Oh yeah, they may be funny for a
six-year-old, but for anyone else, they are absolutely agonizing. At
one point, one says "Shut up!" to another one, and you can almost hear
the sound millions of fanboys make when a piece of their childhood has
withered away and died. And if neither the Padawan or the Droids do it,
then surely Ziro the Hutt (voiced by Corey Burton), Jabba's uncle will.
Remember John Waters' friend and muse, Divine? Ziro is nearly the
splitting image (albeit, an obese and disgusting slug).

The story is also an issue here. It is just, not strong enough to
sustain a film. It does not necessarily feel like a three-part arc of
the TV show (although the bizarre opening "crawl" read off by a
Saturday morning announcer sure does not help that ideal), but it also
does not feel like a completely well thought out film either. Sure, it
has the political intrigue about Jabba's son's kidnapping, but this is
supposed to be a Clone Wars movie. People come to see the Clone Wars.
So why is all the meaty story elements being pumped into a throwaway
story about a baby slug the main characters keep referring to as
'Stinky'? It just screams bad story writing, and essentially, makes the
film need to stand beside the show, instead of as its own separate
movie. I can only hope that it will fit in better there, as opposed to
needing to stand beside the theatrical films here.

I will say, for all of its continuity ruining, terrible one-liners,
silly storyline, and lack of John Williams themed music (I could not
believe it either), there are some very well animated action sequences.
In some cases, whether I like to admit it or not, some of the scenes
look spot-on with the look of Attack of the Clones or Revenge of the
Sith, even to the point of the Battle Droids and Clone Troopers looking
nearly perfect to their real life incarnations. Yes, the human
characters look a little weird (especially anyone with hair, or a
beard), but everything else looks very good, and very close to what
they did in the movies. The animation here is not as exquisitely
detailed as the likes of a Pixar movie, but it never aims to imitate
them. As well, even though the likes of Hayden Christensen and Ewan
McGregor are not doing voice work in the film, the voice actors have
made a genuine attempt to have their voices sound similar. The result
is much more astounding than I could have imagined, and almost made me
forget they were not the real thing.

In the end, Star Wars: The Clone Wars is a kids movie, or at least, can
be appreciated by children. It has the whiz-bang battles of a Star Wars
movie, but the humour and ADD-infused dialogue that they can appreciate
from the cartoons they watch on Saturday morning. If you are not a
child however, it may just ruin any childhood memory you had of this
once legendary series.

2.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
High on the list of movies-we-probably-could-have-done-without would be
"Star Wars: The Clone Wars," an animated installment in the sci-fi
series that serves mainly as the big-screen warm-up act for the
upcoming TV series of the same name. Since it falls somewhere between
"Attack of the Clones" and "Revenge of the Sith" in the narrative
sequence (think of it as Episode 2 Â½ ), virtually none of the really
interesting characters in the saga make an appearance in this movie -
no Luke Skywalker, no Han Solo, no Princess Leia, no Darth Vader.
Instead, we're left with a young pre-Vader Anakin Skywalker and a
pre-Alec Guinness Obi-wan Kenobi off on a mission to rescue the son of
Jaba the Hutt, who's been kidnapped by the Empire's evil Count Dooku in
a convoluted scheme to turn the Hutts against the Republic, thereby
denying them use of the trading routes that the Hutts control.

Considering the fact that the last time we saw Anakin he had already
completed his journey to the Dark Side and taken on the mantle of Darth
Vader, it seems a trifle incongruous to still be cheering him on as a
hero in this film. It also doesn't help that, in animated form, Anakin
(voiced by Matt Lanter) is an even more shallow and wooden character
than he was in the first two episodes of the series, and that the
playful bantering between him and his sassy, Jedi-in-training sidekick,
Ahsoka Tano (Ashley Drane), is a pale echo indeed of the kind of verbal
jousting that Han and Leia regularly engaged in in those earlier films.
And what's with turning Jaba the Hut's uncle into a purple, painted-up
drag queen with the vocal stylings and facial expressions of Truman
Capote? 

On a technical level, the animation is no more than passable even in
its best moments, with the backdrops and special effects far less
impressive than they are in the live-action episodes - or in any Pixar
movie released in the past ten years for that matter. The fight scenes
are relatively fast-paced, but they do go on and on to the point where,
after awhile, the audience is just passively staring at things
occurring on the screen, not becoming actively engaged in any kind of
character conflict or compelling storyline.

"Star Wars: The Clone Wars" feels like a cynical, on-the-cheap attempt
to bilk still more money out of the legions of die-hard "Star Wars"
fans who have been so instrumental in helping George Lucas build a
pretty impressive empire of his own. And those devotees certainly
deserve something better than this halfhearted, intergalactic version
of "Adventures in Babysitting." Don't get me wrong, I love "Star Wars"
as much as the next person, but "The Clone Wars" is unworthy of the
Lucasfilm trademark.
<|_=00=_|>
So, it has come to this. I think it's safe to say that The Clone Wars
pretty much flattens any last shred of credibility that the Star Wars
franchise may have held. The disappointing prequel trilogy gave us
warning signs that all was not well in LucasLand. This disappointingly
shallow, dull, and unneeded side story all but rams the point home.

The solitary purpose of The Clone Wars is to introduce a new animated
TV series that will be debuting on the Cartoon Network later this year.
Now kids will be able to follow the further adventures of Obi-Wan
Kenobi (voice by James Arnold Taylor) and Anakin Skywalker (Matt
Lanter), set chronologically between Episode II: Attack of the Clones
and Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. But, hold on a minute. Did
executive producer George Lucas or anyone else involved with the
project realize just how pointless this idea is? We've seen the
original trilogy, we've seen the prequel trilogy. We pretty much know
what's going to happen to the characters, since their fates have pretty
much been public knowledge for about 30 years now. It's a core problem
in the movie as well. When Anakin faces down the evil Count Dooku
(Christopher Lee) late in the film, the fight seems completely
needless, since we hold advance knowledge that the characters do not.

The story can best be described as a very basic and shallow hook to
hang a seemingly endless string of interminable space dogfight battles,
and lightsabre duels. Jabba the Hutt's infant son, Rotta, is kidnapped
by mysterious assailants. The kidnappers are working under the devious
Dooku, who plans to use the baby Hutt to frame the Jedi, leading Jabba
to believe that they are responsible for the abduction. Obi-Wan and
Anakin already have their hands full battling the evil droid army that
is spreading out across the galaxy, and now they must track down the
young creature before the Hutt clan declares war against the Jedi and
the Republic. While Obi-Wan and the clone soldiers try to hold off the
advancing armies, Anakin, along with his young Padawan apprentice
Ahsoaka Tano (Ashley Eckstein), must try to return Rotta to his proper
home. Call it Adventures in Hutt-Sitting.

The Clone Wars literally starts with a bang, throwing us directly into
the middle of a battle with little explanation, other than a
hastily-spoken narration voice over that sounds like it was read by a
game show announcer. From there, the characters are briefly
re-introduced to us in the thick of battle. Once the situation with the
missing baby Hutt is established, the movie literally never slows down.
It's one exhausting fight scene or action sequence after another as
Anakin and Ahsoaka race across the galaxy to reach the planet Tatooine,
as they're pursued by various aliens, droids, and whatever else the
filmmakers feel like throwing in. It doesn't take long for the movie to
start to resemble a hyper-active video game, as it never slows down
long enough to allow the characters to do anything but run and shoot at
things. But then, given the wooden dialogue on display, maybe it's a
good thing. While the actual Star Wars films were not exactly known for
their dialogue, I have to admit I choked on my soda just a little when
I heard Anakin's new Padawan refer to him affectionately as "Sky-guy".

It's quite clear that the main appeal of the original films were the
special effects, not to mention the imaginative worlds and creatures.
So then why does The Clone Wars look no better than the stuff you see
in a Saturday morning cartoon? I know, the movie is intended to be a
launching point for one, but that doesn't explain how cheap everything
looks here. The characters suffer from a very shiny and "plastic" look
that makes them look more like animated action figures than actual
people inhabiting the story. The hair on the characters don't even
move. It's molded and painted onto their heads, kind of like a Ken
doll. I'm also still trying to figure out the filmmakers' decision to
give everyone such limited facial movement, making the entire cast look
like they just received a massive Botox implant. I didn't believe for a
second that I was watching a genuine story, or even a continuation of
the Star Wars universe. I felt like I was listening to a bad fanfiction
story written by a fanboy hopped up on way too much caffeine, acted out
by poorly rendered video game characters.

Unless you're the most forgiving fanatic of the franchise to walk this
green Earth, or are under 10-years-old, there is absolutely nothing
appealing to be found within The Clone Wars. It's nothing but a lot of
noise and explosions that assault the senses for 100 minutes, then
leaves you walking out of the theater with no real thoughts or
impressions. It's not even enjoyable in one ear and out the other
entertainment. I'm sure the TV series will probably be no different,
but at least you won't have to pay to watch it. You can also change the
channel, something I wished I could have done many times watching this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
I tried to open minded about this film when I first went to the cinema,
determining that "I'm a star wars fan, and no matter how bad it is,
it's still Star Wars."

That feeling lasted about um... a second and a half from the start of
the film. It started off fine with the, "A long time ago in a galaxy
far far away." I smiled, prepared myself for the classic theme and
it... never came. I had been told it was 'remixed' beforehand, but I
was expecting something not too different, the new composer didn't even
keep the first 4 notes.

Then we move onto the 'Opening Crawl' - which didn't exist. Another
staple of Star Wars, even found in the games, gone, poofed completely.
It was replaced with a narrator speaking over a kind of WW2 'news
reel'. A few minutes into it and already the film has lost all its feel
of being Star Wars, by no doubt intentional design decisions. In my
book, if the writers/directors/producers etcetera intentionally changed
something, and it turned out badly, it's still bad.

It got worse, the opening battle could have potentially been something
good and enjoyable to watch, instead it was as if it had been played in
fast forward, I could almost imagine the 'Benny Hill' theme being
played in the background.

Admittedly, I was a bit biased towards the 'art style' before hand so I
thought, if I'm going to write a review on it, I'll avoid mentioning it
as it would be rather unfair and not truly neutral. So I will avoid
commenting on it except to say, that it gets worse. When Supreme
Chancellor Palpatine walked into a scene, his style was seemed to be
entirely based on a... bobble-head toy. There is 'stylised' drawing
(which I would define by the early 1990's Batman cartoons) and then
there's 'caricature' - Star Wars: The Clone Wars, I felt was the
latter. Additionally, the animation was jerky, possibly as a reference
to the 'Thunderbirds' puppets. In my opinion, it didn't work, it just
made it look even worse.

The film is a children's oriented film, and I'm perfectly happy to
accept that. In honesty, this was the strongest part of the film. The
new Padawan was someone that children could enjoy watching and identify
with. There was even some humour involving her and "Stinky the Hutt"
that could be enjoyed by the little 'uns. However, I think in trying to
appeal to children, they actually managed to make the dialogue even
worse than Attack of The Clones and going on to insult the intelligence
of the kids in the audience to boot. A typical conversation, which was
repeated several times in the films follows.

Character A: "Jabba the Hutts son has been kidnapped." Character B:
"The Jedi Order must go and rescue Jabba the Hutts son." Character A:
"If the Seperatists rescue Jabba the Hutts son first we'll lose the
war." Character A: "Then it's agreed, we must rescue Jabba the Hutts
son from being kidnapped."

While this conversation was on-going (and going, and going), the
characters tones would randomly change from low to high to low again. I
believe, when Obi-wan was speaking, this was an attempt to copy his
voice from episode III, it didn't work. The only character that avoided
this was the Padawan, Ashkoja, which, truth be told, made her scenes
are more watchable than any others.

Finally, a good word about it, scenes that didn't have any characters
in them, for example space and 'landscape' scenes did look particularly
good and demonstrate the potential for how enjoyable the film COULD
have been. However, due to several strange, strange design decisions
that seemed only to have been changed for the sake of being changed, I
would recommend against even renting this film. If you must see it,
wait for it to come on television.
<|_=00=_|>
My 14 year old son passed on this, so I went by myself. I should have
heeded his warning, "Dad, it IS a kid's movie." It is in fact.

But desirous of a Star Wars fix, I had to go.

And I am sorry I did. What a waste of time! I probably would have
gotten more out of playing Battlefront II on my Xbox. Replaying Knights
of the Old Republic would definitely have been better.

There wasn't really a story here, and what story there was pretty much
an affront to any decent writing in any of the novels or comics in the
last 30 years. There are many fan movies that are a whole heck of a lot
better. Many fine things have been said that lay out the failings of
this movie, so there's no need to repeat them. Most of the characters
are as much cardboard as the vaunted breakthrough animation techniques.
That's enough to tank any movie.

Couldn't we have had a movie that didn't pander to five year olds? This
thing should have come with a Warning. "Warning! Watching this fetid
pile of ripe manure, will cause you to develop a severe allergic
reaction toward the Star Wars franchise."
<|_=00=_|>
Fan buzz has been very negative for this movie. Myself, I have tried to
remain positive. But even I, as a very lenient movie watcher has to
admit that this really wasn't great. It's not on par with any of the
other six movies of the franchise. It wasn't all bad though, and I will
tell you what was good and bad about it now.

The animation was a real mixed bag. It had great backgrounds that
looked almost like they were taken right out of the movies, then you
have these very poorly designed characters. As much as I liked most of
the designs on everything but the characters themselves, I couldn't
help looking at the animation like a beautiful painting with poo
smeared in some spots. You can look at the painting, but it's hard to
enjoy it when you can't take your eyes off the poo. It takes away from
the potentially awesome animation. They look plastic and stiff, and the
facial expressions and lip syncing look like something from a
Playstation game from 1999. The voice acting was pretty bad as well,
although Christopher Lee did and alright job, and Matt Lanter had a lot
more emotion in his voice acting than Hayden had in the entire role.

The dialogue was about as bad as can be. The exchanges between Anakin
and his apprentice were all clichÃ© and boring. Not to mention almost
all the droids were like copies of Jar Jar Binks. A main problem was
that I thought this would focus more on action than it did. That's why
I felt all that lame childish stuff wouldn't matter. But it was mostly
discussing the problems and treaties and stuff, which was the last
thing this movie needed. There was a fair bit of action, but even when
they were having awesome lightsaber duals, they felt the need to stop
every 4 seconds and talk about stuff that I didn't need to hear, such
as why they were having the battle. I wanted to see lightsaber duals on
a level that they couldn't manage in a live action movie, and they did
not deliver in this way. A lot of the other action was pretty good
though, some being very fast moving and intense.

The storyline really didn't consist of much.... just people trying to
get Jabba the Hutt on their side, basically. This is not a movie that I
think many old Star Wars fans will enjoy, but it may be a movie that
helps introduce new people to the franchise, which is always a good
thing. This is definitely a movie for the younger audiences, not older
people and film critics. It basically just felt like a long TV Show
episode, which is basically all it was. It was good for a TV episode,
but not for a movie. If the action is as good in the series as it was
in the movie (and hopefully there will be more), then I will be looking
forward to it. But if they release another movie that looks to be at
this level, I will have to wait until DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The traditional scrolling prologue is replaced by a transatlantic voice
that would have been at home in a 1940's serial. From here, we are
thrown into episode 2.5 of the Star War saga. This is pretty generic
Saturday morning cartoon fare with wooden voice acting and two
dimensional characters. The dynamic between Anakin Skywalker and his
new sidekick, will grate on the nerves of anyone over the age of 8
years old. The stiff animation makes everyone come across as a cross
between an action figure and a Thunderbird. For a theatrically released
film there is nothing cinematic about it and feels like a feature
length pilot for the animated series.

As a spin off from the Star Wars franchise, it's OK but purely for kids
only.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to go see a special screening today at 1:00 at the Mainside
theater in Camp Pendleton. My little brothers, 5 and 4, were very
excited because they are huge Star Wars fans. I guess you could say I
was excited too. Well, I did not know what I was going to expect, since
this was the first animated Star Wars. First I must say this was not as
grandeur as the other Star Wars, but I am pretty sure that it wasn't
meant to be. And I know that this movie is going to kick off the new
100 episode cartoon. I was a little disappointed that they had new
voice overs such as the one for Kenobi and Skywalker, however the new
voice over for Kenobi is hard to tell that it is different. For Anakin,
however, I did not think that there could be a more annoying voice than
Hayden Christensen. YOu actually are going to miss Christen's voice.
But I tried to not pay attention to that, which was very distracting,
and focus on the whole picture, the plot. In my opinion, the plot was
too simplistic for a Star Wars film because the whole entire movie is
about Anakin and his new padawan, I forget her name, trying to rescue
Jabba the Hutt's son. Thats it. Kenobi and Yoda are barely in the film.
I loved the fight scenes and the ones at the end definitely pulled the
movie up. And the grand scale scenes were pretty impressive. I wasn't
too impressed with some the humor they tried to pull off. I mean some
of the slapstick comedy sucked so bad that I almost wanted to leave
ethe theater. there were some humorous moments that actually made me
chuckle a bit but most of the comedy was meant for kids younger than 10
years old. Great movie for the little kids and people that are going to
watch the TV series but you need to be a true Star Wars fan to love
this movie.
