
It isn't easy to make a good fantasy film  as borne out by Seventh
Son, which has suffered a particularly arduous journey to the silver
screen. Originally slated for release in February 2013, its visual
effects house went bankrupt and its studio, Legendary Pictures, parted
ways with distributor Warner Bros. The film that's finally stumbling
into cinemas almost two full years later (courtesy of Universal
Pictures) should be an unmitigated disaster. Surprisingly, it's not.
The film isn't exactly great, but it's a largely entertaining romp
that's more inspired by than strictly faithful to Joseph Delaney's
series of bestselling books.

Tom Ward (Ben Barnes) is the seventh son of a seventh son: a rare
genetic lineage that sets him on the path to becoming a Spook a.k.a., a
slayer of the myriad evil creatures that haunt the land. He becomes the
apprentice of grizzled, alcohol-addled John Gregory (Jeff Bridges),
shortly after Mother Malkin (Julianne Moore), an evil witch, escapes
her earthly prison to claim the world as her own. With only a week to
go before the blood moon rises, Tom trains with Gregory but finds
himself distracted by the charms of Alice (Alicia Vikander)  a
mysterious young lady with a few secrets of her own.

While hardly groundbreaking in any way, the story unfolds with
unexpected punch. Tom's story  one in which he comes of age and comes
into his own  is accompanied by plenty of action sequences, courtesy
of bone-crunching battles between men and other men (and women) who
turn into soaring, swooping, fire-breathing dragons. Tom tumbles over a
cliff to avoid a pursuing monster, Gregory battles a gigantic bear, and
wraiths of smoke and despair trail after the Spook and his apprentice
as they make their way through a dark, brooding forest.

It helps, too, that the film is leavened by a welcome bite of humour.
Seventh Son doesn't take itself as deadly seriously as some of its
brethren in the fantasy genre do. That's why Gregory plunges into a bar
brawl armed with nothing more than his flagon of beer, and Tom is
allowed to make quite a few cutting remarks about his purported mentor
that are heartily returned with interest.

Ardent fans of Delaney's books should be warned: Seventh Son riffs on
elements of the novels rather than staying strictly true to them. For
one thing, Tom is considerably older in the film. Most noticeably,
Malkin is a very different character than she is on the page. She's
given more depth and complexity here, her vile behaviour explained, if
not strictly justified by, her past entanglements with Gregory. It's
actually quite nice to see a fantasy world that doesn't simply
perpetuate the trope of the wicked witch, but instead dreams up
characters that fall along a broad spectrum of morality.

Barnes is well-cast as Tom, holding his own as both a hero and
quasi-romantic lead. He shares a sweet, though not particularly
electric, chemistry with Vikander who is, thankfully, called upon to do
more than simper and flirt. But there are considerably more thrills to
be had with Bridges, who manages to fold charm, menace and darkness
into Gregory; and Moore, who's clearly having plenty of fun cutting her
way through scenes as a whirlwind of madness and malevolence.

By all accounts, Seventh Son should really have been an outright flop.
It may still play as such to any fantasy aficionados who are demanding
greatness on the level of The Lord Of The Rings. But, for pretty much
everyone else, Seventh Son is an entertaining, undemanding film with
some good ideas and a lot of fun moments. It's not a particularly great
example of its genre but, given its troubled production history, that
it's not completely execrable is probably nothing short of a miracle.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm afraid after many delays and with a February release date in the
US, this would flop. I would understand it in a way. It looks like a
cheap B-movie. And a B-movie it is: offers nothing new, nothing
special, it exists only to entertain. And you know what? I LOVE that.
I'm THAT kind of person.

Despite it is based on a book, the story is so average it hurts. And
while the characters are also clichéd, at least they have some flesh,
thanks to the actors and the director.

It has some nice monster action set pieces and the pace moves in a good
fashion. While its production cost is nowhere to the likes of a Hobbit
movie, the effects are great and I was very surprised that the 3D
actually worked. 

My advise: If you want an experience like the Hobbit or the Harry
Potter movies, don't watch this. But if you like fantasy movies like
Willow or Dragonheart (and maybe Stardust), give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood has of late had a lousy track record of fantasy action epics,
and 'Seventh Son', which arrives just in time to close off the year, is
yet another blemish to add to that list. Delayed nearly a year while
its production company Legendary switched studios, this Universal
release assembles A-listers Jeff Bridges and Julianne Moore with 'The
Chronicles of Narnia' star Ben Barnes for an expensive big- screen
adaptation of the first book of Joseph Delaney's 'The Wardstone
Chronicles' against tawdry sets and second-rate visual effects.

We aren't usually that critical of a film's production design, but
there is just something awfully dreary about the widescreen world of
Russian director Sergei Bodrov's debut English-language feature.
Indeed, the only human city where any of the action takes place looks
like it was rented right after the cast and crew of 'Game of Thrones'
abandoned it, while the mountain fortress which principal villain
Mother Malkin makes her not-so-humble abode seems like it was designed
for some 1960s B-grade science-fiction movie. The ugliness of these
green-screened sets is even more obvious against the occasional
picturesque Canadian backdrops, which cinematographer Newton Thomas
Sigel ably captures to evoke a majestic 'Lord of the Rings' feel.

Alas the unattractive visuals are just one of the litany of complaints
that you are likely to have. What production designer Dante Ferretti
fails to accomplish in sets, visual effects designer John Dykstra also
fails to make up for in post-production. Whether the oversized orcs or
shape-shifting witches (Moore and her fellow consort Djimon Hounsou
transform into dragons, while others transform into creatures with
reptilian-like tongues or Hindu deity-like arms), the CG effects for
what was once intended to be a franchise tentpole are both
unimaginatively conceived and poorly executed, even more appalling when
viewed in post-conversion 3D or worse on an IMAX screen.

And yet to fault its technical shortcomings seems at least a tad
unfair, in particular because the movie's problems are much more
fundamental. For one, despite boasting an impressive team of
screenwriters including Matt Greenberg, Charles Leavitt and Steven
Knight, there is hardly a story here. Without any context, we start
with a younger Jeff Bridges imprisoning the Queen Witch, Mother Malkin
(Moore), up in the mountains. The impending dawn of the once-a-century
blood moon lends her strength to break out of her metal confines, and
in an early sequence, confront her jailer Master Gregory (Bridges) and
his not-so-lucky apprentice Billy (Game of Thrones' Kit Harington).
When that reunion ends with Billy dead, Gregory sets out recruiting a
new "seventh son of a seventh son", Thomas (Barnes), who so happens to
be suffering from elliptic visions of Gregory and Malkin.

In narrative jargon, Thomas is The Chosen One, the anointed protégé who
under the tutelage of Master Gregory will become his very equal and
take his place among the elite group of knights who call themselves the
Falcon. There is no doubt during the movie, even when his life seems to
be in mortal danger, that Thomas will live to see the death of Mother
Malkin and perhaps even the light of another sequel. There is also no
doubt, despite Gregory's initial reservations, that Thomas will be
ready within the span of just seven days to defeat the evil that Malkin
possesses within her goth-like getup. And for that matter, there is no
doubt that Thomas will find true love in Alice (Swedish actress Alicia
Vikander), a witch whom he rescues from the town mob and who turns out
to be the daughter of Malkin's younger sister.

The plotting is as straight-forward as it gets, and functions no more
than to connect the numerous noisy action sequences together. There is
also hardly any character to speak of, each one of them leading or
supporting mere stock types that you would be familiar with from
countless other such fantasy flicks. The latter is also why we feel
sorry for Bridges, a fine actor who's played the grizzled veteran one
too many times of late in 'R.I.P.D.' and 'The Giver' and is here trying
not to sound condescending while delivering lame one-liners with a
distinct twang. Moore too is an equally fine actress in her own right
utterly wasted in a thankless role, and together, what chemistry the
pair had in 'The Big Lebowski' is sorely missing in their first reunion
since.

If the decision to cast two acclaimed actors to lend legitimacy to the
project does nothing to help the film, the casting of its younger
actors also fails to do it any favours. Barnes tries his best to
project fresh-eyed enthusiasm, but the late decision to cast the 31-
year-old actor in the role of a 17-year-old  instead of 'The Hunger
Games'' Sam Claflin is ultimately a misguided one. He also shares too
little chemistry with Vikander, who looks appropriately beguiling but
is little much else. Barnes and Vikander are also stuck in an awkward
romance which is bound to inspire some unintended giggles especially
for a sequence where the two supposedly exchange loving glances while
lying together in bed. 

There is hardly anything fascinating about 'Seventh Son', whose title
belongs better in a tongue twister than in an expensive and extravagant
swords-and-dragons epic. Yes, there is good reason indeed why former
studio Warner Bros had dragged its feet in releasing this, and what a
relief it must have felt that it need not try to justify why it decided
to do so when it already has an entire trilogy in 'The Hobbit'. No
matter that the director is a two-time Academy Award nominee for his
Russian films 'Prisoner of the Mountains' and 'Mongol', his Hollywood
foray is an embarrassing misstep that he would no doubt want to be
forgotten as soon as possible. He needn't worry; to spare yourself the
agony of sitting through yet another disappointing fantasy wanna-be
epic, go find any one of the other sons and just avoid the Seventh.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the tale of a seventh son from a village, who is chosen
by a master to fight the evil witch who will rule the land.

"Seventh Son" is one of the rare mediaeval fantasy film, that don't
seem to be made anymore. This fantasy tale is entertaining, and
Julianne Moore gives a good performance of a cold blooded witch. The
story itself is not particularly interesting or engaging, and there is
little thrill. The film is heavily reliant on computer generated
graphics, but we have been wowed by "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the
Rings" already. Hence, "Seventh Son" offers nothing new, and only
offers a brainless way to kill two hours.
<|_=00=_|>
I can see why critics and people in general are dissing the film. I
think the problem with the film, is that it's director, Sergey Bodrov
has never done a film of this scope. At least, never a film with a
budget of 95 million dollars. 

The film is 102 minutes long. Had it been longer, I think many more
"things" could have been better explained. It just seemed some of the
scenes were out of sequence, or, didn't have enough detail. Had this
film had Peter Jackson, or Guillermo del Toro at the helm, it would
have been an entirely different film. Considering the LOTR series each
had about the same budget, this film could have been so much more.

The film seemed fragmented. It reminded me of the failed film Eragon,
where you suddenly go from farm boy, to instantly learning Elvish,
knowing how to fight, and just "knowing" everything. We need to see the
characters develop.

Now, I'm a hard core fan of this genre. I'll be the first to admit,
that pairing Jeff Bridges with Julianne Moore was a great idea. While
we get more background on Bridge's character than we do with other
characters in the film, their performances, while quite acceptable
could have been much better. Personally, I thought Bridges portrayal of
Master Gregory was well executed. Again, I think the director was
perhaps the main problem, reigning in their performances.

I keep seeing articles and reviews from people who've read the book,
then bash the film because the film itself is so far separated from the
text. I don't like to compare books to film, simply because you can go
into so much more detail in a book. 

I have to say it. I still enjoyed the film even though it left a lot of
unanswered questions for me. If you like the fantasy series, as I do,
then go into the film without preconceptions, and, enjoy it for what it
is, entertainment. While it's not the best film to ever hit the big
screen, it's still fun.
<|_=00=_|>
The long-delayed young adult book adaptation finally shows up on big
screen. Asia noticeably has an earlier release date. The question now
is "Is it worth the wait?" For a movie delayed this long, people have
already forgotten about it so I won't be surprised if it flops at box
office. This gets as generic as what a fantasy period film can be. It
is packed with every cliché you find in the genre however it is still
entertaining with its action set pieces, decent CGI and 3D.

The story: Jeff Bridges plays a gruff Master Gregory who has lost his
apprentice (Kit Harington) during a fight with a powerful witch
(Julianne Moore). Thomas Ward (Ben Barnes) is chosen to be Gregory's
new apprentice. And there you go, an action-packed adventure with
perilous monsters and witches lurking. Nothing in the movie surprises,
even the twists have been seen before. There are a few set pieces
including a full-blown climax that use extensive CGI. Although
entertaining to watch, they are lacking in the creativity department.
Acting wise is alright. Music is generic but does elevate a sense of
peril during the action.

3D: It is surprisingly decent. I thought it would be another sloppy
post-converted 3D movie that barely has depth. The 3D effects work the
most during the CGI set pieces with monsters chomping right at your
face. It has a reasonable amount of depth between characters and the
background. 

Overall: Is it worth to watch it in cinema? Only if you are interested
in young adult adaptations. If you don't, you are not missing much. It
has all the clichés what a fantasy period movie has and does not break
any new ground. Is it worth the wait? Probably not. But if you are in
need of entertainment, this would just entertain you for 2 hours.

More on: http://moreviewsed.blogspot.sg
<|_=00=_|>
-Seventh Son (2015) movie review: -Seventh Son is a fantasy/adventure
film about the last man in an order of knights that were basically
medieval Ghostbusters. He takes on a new, young apprentice who is
destined for greatness and blah blah blah prophecy, blah blah blah
training, blah blah blah evil threat, blah blah blah fulfil his destiny
type of thing.

-The entire film is like a cliché video game complete with boss
battles, side-quests, and gaining new equipment. It was not bad, but
not good or anything new.

-The story is cliché and predictable as pretty much anything. I knew
exactly how it would go down throughout the entire film.

-The pace is somewhat inconsistent, with a few parts that rush and a
few parts that drag.

-The acting is fine. Jeff Bridges did his best imitation of himself
from True Grit, which was only so-so believable. Ben Barnes did his
best impression of himself as Prince Caspian, minus the accent. So he
was convincing at least. Julianna Moore is the villain, and she was the
best one in it.

-The characters are all cliché and offered nothing new.

-The music. I'm going to go back to this one.

-The CGI was not as bad as the trailer, but not great. The originality
the film offered in the villains was not terrible either. They just
played Dark Souls and said "Hey! Let's use all of the villains!" -There
are some scenes that are pretty witty, and some others that are pretty
entertaining. So it was enjoyable to an extent.

-So my least favorite thing about the film was the music. Right off
the bat I noticed. Here is what happened: They were done with the
editing and somebody said "Oh guys! We forgot music!" and another guy
answered, "Oh crap! It's okay, just use music from Game of Thrones,
Clash of the Titans, Wrath of the Titans, and Robin Hood! Problem
solved!" Oh my gosh I knew every song that played. And they picked two
of my favorite soundtracks to use! So totally took me out of the
moment. All of the moments. All of them.

-Anyway, Seventh Son is nothing new and has some elements, like the
freaking music, that make it not good. However it has some
entertainment value to it, so really, if you don't care about
predictability and music, Seventh Son would actually be worth watching
on Nexflix.

-It is PG-13 for some light violence, scary-ish images, dealings with
things like sorcery, and a random F-word. Because that existed?
<|_=00=_|>
Set in medieval times in Europe somewhere, "Seventh Son" brings us back
to a time when supernatural beings like witches, ghosts, ghasts and the
like wreak terror on the countryside. The people depend on a special
knight called the "Spook" to fight these creatures and restore peace. 

Master Gregory is the last spook and he is getting on in age. In his
last big fight with the grand witch Mother Malkin, he lost his latest
apprentice Billy. Gregory searches for another "seventh son of a
seventh son" to take his place. 

His quest leads him to the farm of the Wards. As the young impulsive
Tom heeds the Spook's call, will he be up to the task of becoming the
new Spook before Mother Malkin fully regains her powers by the night of
the blood moon? Or will Tom's falling for the charms of pretty Alice
distract him from his destiny?

Cut down to its basic storyline, you would see a very common basic plot
in many an adventure film: an old master training an heir-apparent to
his position. This film takes that plot and brings into it fantastic
monsters in action and teenage romance in bloom.

Ben Barnes plays Tom Ward. Barnes first gained attention as Prince
Caspian in the Narnia films, though his career did not really fly too
much. He takes another stab at stardom with yet another action fantasy
with this one. Already a adult man, Barnes seemed too old for the
character he is supposed to play. Anyhow, he still has a youthful mien
to pull it off. I think he was cast so that a romance angle can be
developed as well.

Jeff Bridges plays Master Gregory. He is at his hammy best here and he
looks like he had a good time filming this. In fact, Bridges felt like
he just reprised his role in last year's "RIPD", where he was a senior
ghost policeman training a new recruit. Bridges had some witty ripostes
which added the requisite humor to the proceedings.

Julianne Moore goes all campy playing Mother Malkin with evil relish
and glee. She gets to wear more witchy-chic than Maleficent and she
seemed to be having a field day with this over-the-top character, much
unlike the more serious and quiet ones she is more known for. In
addition, she and her coven of powerful witches (played by Antje Traue,
Djimon Hounsou, Jason Scott Lee, among others) get to transform into
dragons and similarly fantastic beasts, thanks to neat and nifty
computer- generated special effects. 

This film is based on the young adult novel "The Spook's Apprentice"
written by Joseph Delaney. Unlike the atmospheric creepy book it was
based on, the film is makes it more of an action fantasy for cinematic
verve. Tom and Alice in the book are both pre-teens. The witch
characters did not fit their descriptions in the book as well. They did
not turn into animals, for one. In fact, one of the side characters,
the deformed humanoid Tusk, even shifts over from evil in the book to
good in the film.

The visual effects were hit and miss, some (like the creature
transformations) were impressive and seamless, but some (like the
conflagrations) looked old-fashioned and garishly fake. Book fans may
be disappointed by the major deviations from the original tale. Those
who are unfamiliar with the book though will be entertained, but will
definitely feel that the story being told by director Sergey Bodrov
follows a tired and very familiar formula. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the trailer for the movie it shone a light on a book
series that I didn't know about. The first trailer was interesting and
entertaining. The second one was about just as good as the first one
but the movie kinda disappointed me. 

Seventh Son has a lot of potential, the special effects are good, the
action scenes are interesting, and the cast is amazing but something
doesn't gel. There's something wrong the movie could have been better
and it might be the writing or the directing . I didn't really care
about the characters, I did not once I worried or cared about any of
them dying.

The rhythm was also off, there wasn't really a built up, there were no
stakes and I was hardly captivated. I'm sorry to say but the trailers
were kind of better. I will read the books though, I feel like the best
part of Seventh Son might be from the books.

wornoutspines.com
<|_=00=_|>
Great sets, good acting, adventure, fantasy, good guys, bad guys,
magic, dragons, humor and romance. We went to be entertained and we
were. Very enjoyable and the good guys win.

If your looking for a critics choice then you might as well stay home,
if you use the critics bad reviews as a reason to go. You'll enjoy it,
the critics can't act or they would, they simply whine, nitpick and
criticize what they themselves are incapable of.

The interaction between characters was easy going and they seemed at
ease with one another. Jeff Bridges was perfect in his role and carried
the film. The scenery was great and the storyline while simple was well
done and fun.

Once again the critics are wrong. Enjoy.
