
I mean... wow.

*insert slow clap for ILM folks*

Last night my wife and I had the pleasure of checking out an early
screening of Rango here in the twin cities. It was a blast! This movie
was a great deal of fun. The jokes all hit the right marks, the story
was solid, sweet and not too formulaic, and the visuals were
outstanding. 

There were times that this movie looked 100 percent photo real.
outstanding job modeling and texturing and lighting on this. the little
tiny attention to detail in the world you guys built had my wife and I
in awe throughout most the movie. The animation was fun and eccentric.
Over the top but at times subtle and felt meaningful. The only little
nit pick was the mouths on some of the characters. in the attempt to
make the animals look more like the animals they were representing the
mouths were quite small and at times the sync was a bit odd. Though it
provided for some goofy looking characters that were fun.

at just over an hour and a half, at times it felt it was a little too
slow paced. well, that was my wife's critique. I looked at it more so
that they were going for the slower feel of some classic westerns. I
thought the long stretches of little dialog, epic music and visuals,
and great cinematography worked in the films favor.

The crowd dug it too. I think the youngest person in the theater was
about 6 (which i found odd for a late night screening, but whatever)
and the oldest was probably in their 70's and everyone was engaged.

I was kind of surprised what they could get away with in a PG rated
movie. Im no prude or anything, but there were enough adult jokes snuck
in there to give me the giggle fits. Couple of lite swear words,
references to more... ehem, adult type themes, but overall pretty tame
and enjoyable.

Hats off. If this doesn't win awards I don't know what I believe in
anymore. This is one of the more entertaining movies I have seen in a
long time.
<|_=00=_|>
Rango... yes it is a play on the classic Western Django. Thats why its
so interesting!

I had eagerly awaited the arrival of Rango, not only as a western fan
but also as an admirer of Gore Verbinski; and the inclusion of Johnny
Depp has yet to be a bad thing. The trailers had almost completely left
out any kind of plot hint, which i now realise was a very good
decision.

So, the story is that a chameleon, with acting ambitions, longs for
social interaction outside of his lonely environment. His wishes are
granted when he stumbles into the western town of 'Dirt' and takes over
the vacant role of Sheriff. When he discovers the towns water supply is
almost run dry he searches for answers along side the townsfolk, all of
whom believe Rango to be their Saviour.

If you have seen the trailer you will have noticed the singing mariachi
owls, who tunefully break down the forth wall to open the film. Not too
dissimilar to the rooster in Disney's classic Robin Hood they help
guide the story along and in doing so also keep you guessing. Which was
a real bonus for me in terms of animated films as they do tend to get
predictable, despite how well they are told. 

Rango himself upon first meet is absolutely NOT a hero. Even more
interesting though is that his name is not Rango. In fact we have no
clue as to what his name is... no doubt an obvious reference to the
classic Spaghetti Westerns to which its inspired by and its Eastwood
lead 'Man with No Name' character. But Rango, despite his lack of name,
knows what he wants and Verbinski very clearly makes sure the audience
knows too... He wants the chance to be a hero and to one have a story
to tell. Let the narrative unfold...

The real winner here is the scenery, its animated alright but i was
struggling to believe that at various points in the film. The scene in
the saloon towards the beginning is fantastically lit and the final
showdown is shot better than a lot of the classics. I'm not kidding! In
fact I would happily pay to see it again just to look at those shots
again because they capture the tension so well.

Although the real audience is those who love the classic west,
Verbinski is able to make it accessible to a vast number. The younger
audiences will definitely appreciate Depp's eccentric character as well
as the very well timed humour, both visually and verbally. The more
mature audiences will appreciate the latter a lot more so. The story is
excellent! It unravels perfectly and its runtime passes by almost
without effort. 

Rango is western... make no mistake. But i assure you one thing should
you decide to give it a chance, its what it needs to be! Its
entertaining, action-packed, funny and sincere. Above all else, it has
what makes a great film, alongside the great protagonist is a great
antagonist! Rattlesnake Jake is scary... he's great with his words and
deadly with his gun and he helps build to a great and tense final
showdown!

Rango gets 10/10 from me!
<|_=00=_|>
I heard from a number of people that this was excellent so I went to
see it myself being a fan of animated movies and of film in general.
And I absolutely loved it, other than being a little too long, which is
such a minor complaint, it was a wonderful film with some surprisingly
mature themes and does very well at trying something different.

The animation for starters is outstanding. Not only do the characters
move convincingly, but the colours look gorgeous and the backgrounds
are imaginative and stunning. The soundtrack is another plus, the score
is wonderful with a sense of fun, great use of instruments and nods to
Ennio Morricone, without being too generic or over-the-top with some
inspired musical flavour to it.

The script is funny, smart and quirky as well- loved the Chinatown(Ned
Beatty based his performance on that of John Huston's), Fear and
Loathing in Las Vegas and Star Wars references- the characters are
genuine and likable with heart and don't fall into the trap of being
too cliché(there are some but it works in the film's favour and I loved
the title character), the film goes at a great pace while remaining
wholly satisfying at its end with an almost elegiac quality that is
there with almost all the best westerns, the slapstick action bounces
along nicely and the story is far from formulaic instead it is original
and inventive. The voice acting is wonderful, both Johnny Depp and Bill
Nighy- Rattlesnake Jake is awesome!- give knockout performances, while
Isla Fisher, Ned Beatty, Alfred Molina, Harry Dean Stanton and Abigail
Breslin are equally terrific.

In conclusion, a wonderful film that I wasn't expecting to be this good
this early on in the year. On a side note, for those complaining about
suitability for children, I actually wouldn't say this was a film for
kids but more adult-oriented. 9/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
We all face an existential crisis at some time or another, just usually
not when we're seven, which will likely be the mean age of children
watching this newest non-Pixar non- DreamWorks animated feature. No,
"Rango" won't challenge kids to contemplate their role in the cosmos,
but that's precisely the predicament of its main character, a
theatrical lizard who finds himself  as many animals in animated films
do these days  thrust out of domestic bliss and forced to reckon with
the untamed and unforgiving nature of the wild natural world. But in
addition to all its verboseness and abstract homage to classic
Westerns, "Rango" equally dishes out top-notch physical humor and
creative characters for the young ones to lap up, even if they're not
exactly of age to, as the film puts at least once, "ruminate."

We don't learn much about Rango's life as a pet lizard. In fact, his
name is not even Rango; he adopts it as his identity during his
adventure. We do see him create his own theatre productions with the
random items in his tank and he pretends that they give him feedback
and criticism. When he determines that his latest show needs some
intense conflict, he finds himself flung from his tank and on the side
of the dry desert road. At the advice of an old armadillo (Molina), he
seeks out water and stumbles upon the town of Dirt, a classic Wild West
locale full or critters and experiencing a nasty drought.

Johnny Depp quickly loses himself into Rango, a character that's
somewhere between his take on Willy Wonka and his turn as Hunter S.
Thompson. Depp churns out an outstanding animated protagonist, one who
is equal parts boisterous and insecure. As the ultimate outsider in
Dirt, our lizard hero has an epiphany: he can reinvent himself out
here. He takes up his new name and makes up a fantastical tall tale and
then with a pinch of luck, becomes the toast of the town and gets
anointed sheriff. All seems swell, but something's up in the town with
regards to the dwindling water supply and the local critters are
getting restless. Rango must truly be the hero he masquerades as.

The creatures of Dirt are fascinatingly animated. They are gritty and
unpleasant looking, but awing in their detail. Rango's facial
expressions even out-Depp the man behind them as embodied in the
scrawny asymmetrical lizard. The animators do a particularly fine job
of creating the hot and dry climate of the desert, enough so to
recommend that the film is best enjoyed with a beverage in hand. It's
so effective that it magnifies the problematic nature of this simple
predicament done hundreds of times before. Hidden underneath it all
somewhere has to be an environmental message, but not an overt one and
not the main lesson to learn from the story.

The language and texture of the film might be decidedly adult, but the
conventions of the story and the degree of action aims specifically for
children. Rather than aim for a middle ground, "Rango" somehow takes
the highest road and the lowest road simultaneously. The dialogue and
the situations are sophisticated but the physicality of the characters
and the high-flying Western frontier action still plays to a child's
understanding. This only proves that "Pirates of the Caribbean"
director Gore Verbinski has a real gift for all-ages entertainment.

In addition to Rango's existential quandary, children will not
understand the cinematic homages either, particularly to spaghetti
Westerns. One of the film's most affecting scenes comes at the moment
when our animated hero, as they all do, hits the lowest of lows after
he's exposed as a "fraud." Rango has a run-in with "The Spirit of the
West," an instantly recognizable figure who has some old-fashioned
advice about toughness and walking tall on the path you're given. It's
a tender moment as what has been considered a bygone era of cinema
plays an important thematic role in such a modern mainstream story.

"Rango" doesn't quite capture the degree of humor and emotional depth
that the Pixar greats of the last few years have, but it's a fun
adventure with exquisite animation, tasteful characters and a good
heart, which puts it as an above-average offering compared to others of
its kind. Adults will simply marvel at the intellectual boldness of
this pure and simple kids movie and rightfully so. Only with a Pixar
gold standard in place does "Rango" come across as flawed; otherwise
it's an absolutely pleasant watch from start to finish.

~Steven C

Visit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
Director Gore Verbinski has put together quite the filmography over the
years. His first feature film was the family comedy Mousehunt, which he
followed up with the R-rated action comedy The Mexican. He also jumped
on the successful remake bandwagon before the trend really took off
with The Ring. It was the Pirates of the Caribbean films that teamed
the director with the hottest actor in Hollywood today; Johnny Depp.
Perhaps it's because those films made over a billion dollars at the box
office or because they just had fun working together or a little bit of
both that Depp was chosen to voice a talking chameleon in Verbinski's
bizarre yet spectacular animated adventure known as Rango.

Rango isn't your average animated film. That fact will become
abundantly clear during Rango's opening monologue amongst his
"friends." The film is actually more adult than any of the trailers let
on. Within the first ten minutes of the film, Rango has a rather
lengthy conversation with some fresh roadkill. In addition to that, the
last half of the film is much darker than the first half. Maybe it's
the countless number of bats with gatling guns strapped to them,
Rattlesnake Jake being one of the most menacing animated villains in
years, the film using its fair share of both "hell" and "damn" quite a
few times, the film not shying away from the use of nooses, or, God
forbid, animated characters smoking, but Rango just doesn't feel like
an everyday, run-of-the-mill film put out by Nickelodeon.

Rango also wears its western references on its sleeve. The old time
saloons, tumbleweeds, stare downs before a gunfight, and a town's
utmost desire for both a sheriff and something to believe in are proof
of that. But perhaps it's Timothy Olyphant's cameo appearance as The
Spirit of the West that is both the biggest homage to westerns you
could possibly think of and the biggest surprise of the film (at least
as far as his appearance goes). Well it's either that or the Fear and
Loathing in Las Vegas reference. Both are equally amazing.

This has the atmosphere of an animated film that was made for adults.
It's very off-balanced in the best kind of way, but a lot of the
references and humor are sure to go over a child's head. Some of the
characters in the film talk really fast (mostly just Rango and Beans at
times) and while Rango is goofy enough to make the kids laugh, the
subject content involving the town of Dirt certainly seems to be aimed
towards a more mature sense of humor.

Rango is the first animated film from Industrial Light & Magic, the
special effects company that did computer generated effects for the
first three Star Wars films and the effects for the T-1000 in
Terminator 2 among countless others. The film looks phenomenal. There
were times when Rango looked like he was walking in an actual desert.
While the characters weren't quite as detailed as the owls in Legend of
the Guardians, they still looked incredibly realistic or as realistic
as talking animals could possibly be.

Rango is one of the most eccentric animated films you'll ever have the
pleasure of sitting through. Its homage to westerns combined with its
explosive action sequences, an endless amount of hilarity, tender and
sentimental moments that actually make you feel sorry for a talking
lizard, and even a little bit of romance pretty much has all your bases
covered as far as genres are concerned. Rango is a dark, witty, and
entertaining ride that's also fairly mature for an animated film. All
in all, Rango is easily the best movie of 2011 so far.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is insane! I read a lot of negative reviews here, and all of
them had one common factor: children. Of course it's not meant for your
4 year old kid, It's a Gore Verbinski movie. This guy made The Ring and
Pirates of Caribbean, none of them had any child-safe approach about
them. if you want to make your children happy, go and watch Mars need
Mom or something.

Ranting aside, this movie is one hell of fun journey and a feast for
eyes. No 3d, shining bright colors, A good script that gives space to
each and every character, strange and beautiful landscapes; the list is
quite endless. It also happens to be quite post modern in it's
approach. I couldn't believe what I was watching on screen. You
definitely will long for a second watch.

in movie Things were not shiny and tidy. It was full of grime, the
characters experienced real helplessness and despair; you could feel
for them. That's a big achievement for an animation movie.
<|_=00=_|>
So a slight blurb about how surprised I was that Nickelodeon was
tackling several mature themes: Rango boasted quite a number of darker
undertones that you wouldn't normally expect from a PG, animated
Nickelodeon movie. Such areas included language (sporting such lines as
"You son of a-"!, "Go to hell!", and "Can I gut-shoot someone?"),
violence (an impressive amount of shooting and dying), sexual themes
(making references to how "active" one's mother was and a joke about a
mammogram), and the film's portrayal of death (where characters
constantly expect Rango's death and at one point, parody death by
hanging). That is, you could arguably find just as much material in
other animated films, such as The Incredibles- but it just goes to show
that Nickelodeon is ready to experiment with a braver sort of film,
much like Disney did with Pirates of the Caribbean. Okay, disclaimer
over. 

Rango is beautiful film that, regardless of its content, gave everyone
in the theater a darn good time. Borrowing heavily from classic
Westerns (The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly) and Western comedies (The
Three Amigos), the film brings reinvents a past formula in an amusingly
creative way. Rango, a pet chameleon unsure about how he wants his
identity to develop, is suddenly cast to into the life of the wild wild
west and decides to assume the duties of the sheriff in a troubled
town. When the gunslingin' enemies arrive, the trouble begins...

If anything, the film is revolutionary in its animation. The quality
and textures of the animals and landscape is simply spot-on and never
ceases to amaze. By far this is the movie's greatest strength- and
supporting the beautiful visuals is a whole slew of jokes. Like I said
before, sometimes the humor is a bit awkward for its targeted audience
(there were definitely a lot of times adults laughed instead of the
kids) but for the most part the theater as a whole enjoyed the comedic
spots. The voice acting cast is of course lively and fun, bringing a
unique quality to each and every animal character. And lastly, the
score by Hans Zimmer is once again majestic and exciting (influences
from his work in Pirates and Sherlock Holmes are easily heard, but with
a Mexican twist!).

Overall, Rango is a beautiful and exciting western adventure that you
shouldn't miss! As long as you know what you're in for, the humor and
the visuals will take you for an unforgettably pleasing ride. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Rango" is more appealing to adults than to kids. It has a lot of
reference to the old western movies which kids might not understand.
There is nothing new about this movie but "Rango" is visually stunning,
full of decency and totally hilarious.Though there are problems about
the story but it's dark, crazy, and exciting.

The story is nothing but reference of other western movies. It's kind
of a remembrance but it's not compelling and new. There is nothing new
about the story. It's just a western relic.

The best thing about this movie is its animation. The visuals are
wonderful and eye candy. The character design looks old fashion zany
and I love it. Kind of reminded me of "The Misadventures of Flapjack" a
TV show from CN. While this movie is from Nickelodeon there are some
humor that kids will perhaps laugh. The movie is not in 3D. "Rango"
proves us that 3D is not necessary to our lives. 3D shrinks the scale
of a movie.

There are no flaws with the voice acting. Johnny Depp is really meant
for Rango. Isla Fisher did this before in Horton Hears A Who so it's
okay. Bill Nighy is an amazing villain. I want more Ned Beattys' sexy
voice. Too bad Timothy Olyphant didn't have enough scenes but it's
still great.

My favorite thing about the visuals is the environment. Look at the sky
and the desert. Cinematography is also great. Every visuals are eye
candy. The scene when Rango and his friends are being chased by bats
and gophers is truly breathtaking.

Maybe the reason why Ebert gave this movie a perfect rating because
it's not in 3D. Well Rango is not flawless but it is still
entertaining. If you like beautiful visuals then I will recommend this
movie to death. The story is not really unique. It's still worth watch.
The merits makes us ignore the flaws of this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
After an extremely weak first quarter in the cinematic world full of
remakes, re-dos, 3-D flicks and movies about gnomes (reallyreally?) we
finally have something fresh, original, and quite trippy to kickoff
2011. Once again reaching into his Western roots, Gore Verbinski makes
up for what he did to World's End and delivers one heck of an animated
film. Rango is full of surprises: surprisingly violent, surprisingly
smart, surprisingly full of western references left and right, and with
a surprisingly incredible western score that matches that of Ennio
Morricone (never thought I'd say that). If you can muster its sluggish
start, extremely fast-pace humor and rather bizarre moments throughout,
then you will thoroughly enjoy Rango and its Western mayhem. And who
said the Western genre is dead....

Rango (Johnny Depp) is a chameleon that after a mishap inside his tank
comes across a town full of desperation and hopelessness. With a little
bit of luck and a lot of lying, Rango becomes sheriff of the town but
runs into a lot of trouble when the water supply hits low and tensions
start rising. The storyline is nothing new, but the script (Good work
John Logan) is full of fresh ideas, fun action pieces, and a great
assortment of characters. In the midst of the script lie so many
homages and references to classic westerns you can make up one heck of
a drinking game.

A strong factor into the fun of Rango is the excellent voice acting,
which rivals that of Pixar's best casting work (See: The Incredibles
and Finding Nemo). Johnny Depp is phenomenal in all his crazy roles,
and his performance of the hilarious Rango is nothing short of
brilliant. But, let's not forget the great work of Isla Fischer (as the
lead female), Bill Nighy (as the sinister Rattlesnake Jake), and the
great singing of the owl mariachi (Los Lobos). And speaking of singing,
let's talk about music. Hans Zimmer was robbed when Inception didn't
win Original Score, but he deserves even more praise with the score
here. It is an incredible mix of guitar, strings, orchestra, and nods
to masterful Morricone, and is hands-down the best score since Michael
Giacchino's "Up." I am strongly contemplating buying the soundtrack if
it's out in stores.

The three main reasons why Rango works: Johnny Depp, Hans Zimmer, and
Gore Verbinski. Very few blockbuster directors have the zaniness and
range of Verbinski; as his repertoire includes Pirates of the Caribbean
(epic blockbuster), The Ring (horror), The Mexican (I still don't
know...) and Mousehunt (underrated dark family comedy). His talents can
be shown here as he interweaves strange dream sequences with unique
action sequences and plenty of hilarious moments. This movie also
doesn't hold back for the kiddies, as it has the language, adult dark
humor, strong themes, and heavy violence of a good-ol' western. Just
picture what were to happen if Chuck Jones directed a tamed Quentin
Tarantino script. And Lord knows there is not enough Chuck Jones
influence in the modern animated movie world.

Bottom Line: Rango works because of its fresh originality and its
refusal to follow the clichéd rules of children animated flicks. It
ditched the 3-D, ditched the watered-down tone we see all too much,
while we experience a very unique take on Westerns while at the same
time see plenty of odes and homages to them. The zany edge of classic
Warner Brothers doesn't happen enough in this millennium (With
Emperor's New Groove being the outstanding example) so its great
whenever we see a Chuck Jones-style of entertainment. While the movie
is quite gritty for a PG flick and some of its off-color content may
throw you off, I am confident when I say that Rango is the first good
flick of 2011. Once again Depp, great job. Your career is astounding
and even underrated in critical acclaim standards. Zimmer, I think its
time to start making an Oscar dedicated to you, because that was quite
a musical trip. And Verbinski, I forgive you for World's End.
<|_=00=_|>
A couple days ago, I started 2011 off on a solid note with The
Adjustment Bureau, but that solid note has now risen to a brilliant
note with the release of Gore Verbinski's Rango.

Johnny Deep provides the voice of the title character, a chameleon
house pet who gets lost in the middle of the Mojave Desert, and through
a series of effective fibs, as well as killing a lethal hawk by
accident, winds up the sheriff of the town he wandered into known as
Dirt, a town low on water supplies, and on the brink of total drought
and dehydration. Rango decides to investigate the mystery surrounding
the low supplies, and quite often bites off more than he can chew.

The direction by Gore Verbinski, who garners enthusiastic and terrific
performances from his voice cast, is wonderful, and the screenplay by
John Logan pays tribute to the classic spaghetti westerns of
yesteryear, right down to pre gunfight stand offs, important events
happening at high noon, and the decision to have a Mariachi band
narrate, and make comment on the film's events. Sure, a couple scenes
seem to overstay their welcome, but in spite of that one flaw, the film
is fresh, and funny, and the film quite often got a good laugh from
myself. I also loved visual references to characters played by Clint
Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef in The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.

I must also praise the technical crew. This is the first animated
feature designed by the legendary special effects company Industrial
Light & Magic, and John Knoll does a good job at supervising the film's
many grand, colorful and photo realistic images. I have just as much
praise for the audio crew. Sound editor Addison Teague does a good job
at handling classic western sound effects such as gunfire and galloping
hooves, and Hans Zimmer (whose music score pays delightful homage to
the scores of Ennio Morricone) does a great job at heightening the
excitement and wit.

Before I sign off, I must make a final point. I'm normally not too
vocal about censorship, but take the facts that the film is animated,
and rated PG with a huge grain of salt, because Rango is NOT a kid's
movie. The images are quite quirky, and sometimes even trippy, some of
the subject material is rather violent and foul mouthed, and some of
the jokes may fly way over kids' heads, but that's exactly why I think
the film's so special. The film makers stuck to their guns, and didn't
wimp out in order to get a bigger audience of children. It's a movie
almost strictly for older viewers, and should be treated as such.

Needless to say, I loved Rango. I give it ***1/2 out of ****
