
It is fascinating to see certain movies that achieve a specific balance
between the familiar and the unique, a particular dynamic perfectly
representative of writer/director/actor Tim Blake Nelson's Leaves of
Grass. On the surface, the film's prevailing themes of family,
reconciliation with one's roots and the tensions between
educated/"upper" class and working/"lower" class are identifiable as
those articulated in countless films and other cultural texts,
suggesting just one more re-tread of the same material. At the same
time, in an elusive sense, the particular angle the material is
addressed feels somehow fresh and unique, making Leaves of Grass
particularly vibrant, dynamic and compelling, both as a narrative and
individual character study. 

In its most distilled essence, the film charts a rampantly successful
Ivy League philosophy professor (Norton) forced to return to and come
to terms with his less than glamorous family ties in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Of course the narrative covers significantly more ground than that,
particularly the professor being sucked into an ill-advised and hardly
legal scheme by his madcap, drug dealer twin brother (also Norton), but
Nelson returns so continuously to the aforementioned central themes
that the increasingly complex plot surrounding them runs the risk of
feeling somewhat besides the point, as enjoyable as it is. However, it
is through evolving such a complex web of narrative that Nelson's film
feels all the more unique, allowing him to tackle often covered themes
with not only a more fresh and indirect approach, but also a great deal
more authenticity. Each of the film's characters, as colourful and
occasionally larger than life as they may be, feels strikingly real,
making their actions and interactions within such a convoluted story
alternatively more resonant and hilarious, as if each are playing the
'straight man' against an increasingly madcap story unfolding around
them. 

With the same charming, powerful yet slightly kooky tone which pervades
many of his acting performances, Nelson sets up his film in a
wonderfully askew fashion, taking delight in veering right when the
logical narrative progression would suggest left, and offering a fair
share of surprise twists, including several jarring or downright
uncomfortable bursts of serious intensity discordantly changing
altering the generally breezy mood. However thematically familiar, the
framework of Nelson's film does feel refreshingly unexpected, even if
it does somewhat lose its momentum towards the end, trundling towards a
denouement that feels somewhat under-thought or vaguely less than
effective. Nonetheless, a lively musical score and crisp editing propel
the film along at a generally steady pace, assuring that despite the
rare stumbling, Nelson's film feels fundamentally alive, truthful and
riotously enjoyable. 

But, as is common with such character-focused material, it is the cast
that ultimately drives the story home. Nelson himself has admitted that
he wrote the lead twin characters for Edward Norton, and it is
impossible to imagine any other performer offering two such superbly
nuanced, powerful and entertaining, not to mention fundamentally
different characterizations within a single film, managing the rarely
seen trick of playing off himself to perfection. Norton infuses so much
life, passion and charisma of such varied sorts into both roles that it
is easy to forget they are played by the same actor - a masterclass of
acting propelling the emotional centre of the film, and almost
singlehandedly making it merit viewing. Keri Russell is similarly
fantastic, channeling her trademark sweet, down to earth charm into her
performance as a reflective poet and teacher  her riverside
philosophical musings make for some of the most quietly
thought-provoking and enjoyable cinematic asides of quite some time.
Tim Blake Nelson himself manages several laughs and sturdy emotional
support as a stoic fellow marijuana grower, and Susan Sarandon offers
raw and frequently hilarious emotional vulnerability as both Nortons'
ex-hippie mother, forced to reflect on a life of questionable choices.
Finally, in a tragically but necessarily brief role, Richard Dreyfuss
is hilarious as a respectable Tulsa philanthropist with several shady
ties to the less respectable underbelly of the community, making his
few scenes shine with shrewd hilarity. 

Wacky yet poignantly credible, Nelson's film hits its stride through
its melding of familiar content with unfamiliar approach, propelled by
a careful, clever script and tremendously memorable characters. In an
age filled with ambitious studio films making hefty grabs at easy
emotion, it is a delight to witness cinema that manages something
powerful, profound and incredibly enjoyable without obvious, clichéd
emotional hooks of any sort, making Leaves of Grass without question
worth a watch. 

-8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I had the pleasure of watching the world premiere of Leaves of Grass at
the Toronto International Film Festival and was not disappointed.
Edward Norton plays identical twin brothers, Billy, an accomplished
university professor and Brady a big time drug dealer in Tulsa. The
film wonderfully builds up to their first encounter after many years of
being estranged, bringing with it much hilarity. The acting was superb
- I was thoroughly engrossed in Norton's portrayal of two seemingly
different characters. The supporting cast was strong and the director,
Tim Blake Nelson had a major role in his own right. Billy and Brady's
mother, played by Susan Sarandon brought a nuanced and understated
performance. Subtle references to Norton's other films such as Primal
Fear and Fight Club were a clever touch. Overall, the film had some
great humour and lots of suspenseful moments. This movie is a must see
for any Ed Norton fan.
<|_=00=_|>
I never saw this one coming... Set in contemporary Oklahoma, "Leaves of
Grass" is a safe bet for finest film in Oklahoma history. Edward Norton
delivers an outstanding performance, guided by a superb screenplay from
director Tim Blake Nelson. Richard Dreyfuss and Keri Russell bolster a
strong supporting cast. The script is noteworthy for its verisimilitude
on a wild range of subjects from Socrates to hydroponic marijuana
production. "Leaves of Grass" is a profoundly intelligent film made
with genuine philosophical insight and laser sharp wit. If you go into
this film expecting a stereotypical pot comedy, you're in for a shock.
The pacing of the film is excellent, tightening the screws until you're
on the edge of your seat. In fact, it's spectacularly tough to write a
spoiler-free review of "Leaves of Grass". Ultimately, Norton and Nelson
deliver a film that would make the Coen Brothers proud.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this film about two twin brothers, played by Edward Norton.
They're very different: one grows pot in his Oklahoma home and the
other wants to attain more and more academic prowess. The first
concocts hare-brained get rich schemes while the other drinks tea with
scholars and speaks - when he has to - about his "eccentric" family.
That is, until their paths meet again.

Bill Kincaid (scholar) suddenly gets word that his brother Brady has
died, and hence he returns to Oklahoma for what comes next. He's
mentally not prepared to meet the rest of his estranged family,
including his mother, played by Susan Sarandon. And what about his
brother, anyway? All in all, a nice film with a bunch of dark twists to
it. It's one of the better I've seen where one person plays several
parts without it all becoming "Pink Panther" - kudos to Peter Sellers'
brilliant acting included - and hence leaving the audience with the
sense of showmanship, but it's also neatly directed by Tim Blake
Nelson, who plays Brady's best friend and is probably most well-known
for his part in "O Brother, Where Art Thou?".
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was just another comedy, but decided to watch it
regardless, as Edward Norton usually makes good movies. And this was no
exception. This movie was really, really cool. It had a good
combination of comedy, drama and action all blended into one mix. And
it worked out quite well.

This is not just a movie about weeds and drugs, it is so much more than
that. Sure the weeds are a core essential to the movie, but it is also
about family values, friendships, embracing your heritage, and coming
to terms with your past.

The cast was phenomenal, especially Edward Norton, who did a superb job
in both his roles. And the supporting cast was really good as well.
Some famous names in the bunch, and everyone delivered good
performances.

"Leaves of Grass" never left me bored, as it was compelling from start
till end. You should watch this movie, because it is somewhat of a gem
in a vast market of endless movies.

Highly recommendable.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film and think that it will only get better with
multiple viewings. The story is not as some reviewers stated dull and
boring(if you expect a typical stoner film maybe you would find it slow
& unfunny) the film moves at a sedate pace but never feels like it
drags, the humour is often gentle or subtle. Ed Norton delivers a
stunning performance as the twin brothers, within minutes of watching
you forget they're played by one person(this is helped by the fact that
there are no scenes that look fake or CGI'd)

The film uses philosophy quotes a lot to explain character motives or
personalities and it could have seemed contrived but the
director/writer has made it such an integral part of the film that
without the quotes and passages the film would be hollow and not have
the depth or be as touching and thought provoking as it is. 

If you get a chance to see this film, do so, you won't be
disappointed(but go into it with an open mind and don't expect slap
stick fart gags)
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Blake Nelson has done the nearly impossible in writing, directing,
and acting in a sparkling movie of pot, poetry, philosophy, and the
power of place and love, Leaves of Grass. It is difficult enough to do
one well, two perhaps, but rarely, all three hardly ever. A gem, dense,
polished, glittering, and warm, it makes you want to look at a
different facet time and again.

From the opening scene to the close, we see worked out in the
transformation of young and admired Brown University Classics
Professor, Bill Kincaid (Norton), that regardless of any improvement we
may think we have made in our lives or our selves, we never really
leave our childhood homes and family, for we carry it and them with us,
and we should, as we try to somehow balance the past with the future,
the rational and intellectual with the emotional and experiential,
control with unbridled exuberance.

While the script is one of ideas, the movie is realized by a great
cast, full of humanity and warmth and life. We learn, for example, from
Bill's high tech state of the art hydroponic agrologist-gone-haywire
pot growing identical twin brother, Brady (also Norton), the
relationship between God and parallel lines. Brady, with a false
message of his own death, tricks brother Bill, who has eschewed and
remains estranged from his family, into returning home to the small
town of Idabel in southeast Oklahoma (closer to Hope and El Dorado than
Tulsa) to help with Brady's scheme to negotiate a loan extension with
the state's drug kingpin from Tulsa, the otherwise respectable oilfield
equipment purveyor and Jewish philanthropist, Pug (delightfully and
fiercelyplayed by Richard Dreyfuss). After being fetched at the airport
by Bolger (Tim Blake Neslon), Brady's best friend, partner in crime,
and all around Sancho Panza, Bolger takes Bill to the rival drug gang's
headquarters, to test whether they will mistake Bill for Brady. They
do, and Bill is pummeled to senselessness, only to wake up at Brady's
home, discovering that Brady is alive and wants him becoming a
participant in a scheme for an alibi if the drug loan renegotiation, as
he thinks it will,turns bad.

Bill is unwilling, at least until the persuasive Brady charms him into
a monster bong hit of the 7th generation Uber-potent bud being
cultivated by Brady and Bolger. As Bill the professor is "annihilated"
in a puff of smoke, Bill the brother begins to become reborn,
relearning from Brady what he has forgotten, a passion for life, in all
of its quirky, messy, deadly serious, loving, and improbable guises. As
Brady's plan unfolds, Bill is bound ever closer in the scheme, and to
the family and place he thought he could do without in his quest for
success and control over his life. Charmed by local teacher and poet,
Janet (played with equal parts innocent charm, brutally competent
knife-wielding non-chalance, and subtlety by Kerri Russell), Bill
learns from her the ancient art of noodling for monster catfish and is
reminded by her recitations of, and commentary about, Whitman's free
verse, and her own, that not all that is beautiful and majestic follows
classical rules of form and expectation. And love, that terrible
beauty, is born. In reuniting with his mother, a pot-smoking ex-flower
child fed up with the world, who has checked herself into a nursing
home so that she "can do as she pleases" (played by the ever beguiling
and compelling Susan Sarandon), Bill learns of the patience, depth,
frustration,and courage of love that lets go and trusts. And when Bill
seeks forgiveness and understanding for a terrible wrong by his brother
from Pug's rabbi (rivetingly played by Maggie Siff), he learns that
atonement is only approached, but perhaps never achieved, by the hard
work of righting what is wrong.

Packed with so much to admire, Leaves of Grass does miss in a few spots
as the plot draws to a conclusion. But with the support of a great cast
(including his wife and children in cameo roles), Tim Blake Nelson
brings his message home, with strength and grace, a winner.

Rarely have I ever wanted to watch a movie over again once I have seen
it. Leaves of Grass will be one of those rare exceptions. There is just
so much to enjoy, and where else will you get to hear such witty
dialogue about Latin translations, with the sparklingly adoring student
Miss Greenstein (luminously and hilariously (any wonder?) played by
Lucy DeVito), profligately using the passive periphrastic and
"alliterative adjectives thrusting themselves into the verbs," or about
grow-lamps: "sodium vapor, portalux HP 1000 watts. Incandescent has too
much far red in the spectrum.... LED has gotten to be all the rage
'cause it's cooler and saves on the power costs, but me, I'm a sodium
vapor man!" This is the kind of tech-talk humor Dan Aykroyd and Harold
Ramis just wish they had written.

And for Norton fans, if you haven't been one before Leaves of Grass,
you will be. It is marvelous to see, rather than the brilliant
portrayal of one man at war with himself and losing, or a brother at
war with his brother and his own wife, the brilliant portrayal of two
brothers winning by holding each half of themselves in the tightening
embrace of growing respect and affection for the other and becoming
whole.

Leaves of Grass is just great American independent film making. It
tickles your funnybone and your brain. It's smart, quirky, poignant and
fresh. In the end, Bill has learned he cannot overcome his fear of the
future by studying its causes and vectors into submission, that our
urgent task is to try, in whatever way we can, to repair our broken
selves and broken world, and that our best hope is to grab the hands of
those we love, in the most vibrant way we can, and hang on.

And let it rain
<|_=00=_|>
Ed Norton is great as always, playing two diametrically opposite but
highly intelligent identical twins. One brother, Bill, is a professor
of classical philosophy who has worked hard to eradicate his Oklahoma
accent and fit into the world of east coast academia. The other, Brady,
stills lives in Oklahoma and makes good money selling high-grade
marijuana with his red-neck buddies. Brady tricks Bill into returning
home for the first time in 2 decades so that Bill can be an alibi while
Brady commits a crime in another city. Although Bill is furious and is
tempted to fly back home immediately, he ends up staying a few extra
days and visits his mother for the first time since childhood. He also
meets Janet, played by Keri Russell, a beautiful, intelligent woman who
can recites poetry while gutting a catfish. It's an enjoyable movie
with quite a few surprise twists along the way.

The strengths of the movie were excellent performances by Norton and
Russell, and even director Tim Blake Nelson was great in the role of
Bolger. This movie will probably do very well at the box office because
of the big name cast plus some great dialogue and humour. I didn't love
the ending though, because of too many coincidences and some
implausible scenes near the finish. Also, there was an exploration of
Christian-Jewish animosity which seemed like an awfully heavy theme to
(briefly) deal with here in what is essentially a romantic-comedy. I
almost gave this a 6, but the great acting is definitely worth at least
an extra point and I bumped it up to a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Edward Norton stars as Bill Kincaid a sensible ivy league philosophy
professor who makes a trip home to Oklahoma, and Edward Norton stars as
Brady Kincaid, twin brother, a rash hillbilly drug dealer who gets
himself mixed up in bad drug deals and murders. "Leaves of Grass" is a
dark comedy, crime drama and ultimately character study.

It starts out with a fair amount of comedy. Both brothers are pretty
funny in their own way. There are a number of pot jokes which even seem
original. The film slows down as it introduces us to all the different
characters. Too slow, in my opinion, as we are all anxious to see what
crimes the brothers get themselves into. And then those crimes play out
with a lot of violence.

The interesting thing about this film as that it really is just a
character study at its heart. Norton and writer Tim Blake Nelson do a
great job with Bill as he examines who he is and what he really wants
out of life. I recommend "Leaves of Grass" to people who like the idea
of a philosophical character study played out as a violent, comedic,
crime drama.
<|_=00=_|>
There's some movies that deserve better performances. The script is
there, but the casting is wrong, and the film suffers because of it.
"Leaves of Grass" suffers the opposite problem. Edward Norton delivers
one of the best performances of his career (which says a lot), but the
film doesn't deliver on the same level of his performance leading to a
less than mediocre movie that would be hard to recommend regardless of
how good that acting really is.

Leaves of Grass is a pretty simple stoner film. It's about two
identical twin brothers (both played by Norton) who live completely
different lives. One decided to study classics and teach out of Brown
University. The other decided to study marijuana and build his empire
in the heart of Oklahoma. When the marijuana business goes south, the
cultured classics professor is forced to head the the small town swamps
to help his brother. What ensues is both equally interesting and
entertaining, but quite frankly doesn't deliver on the comedy that the
premise is clearly built upon.

Edward Norton really steals the show here. Personally he's been one of
my favorite actors ever since American History X, and films like 25th
Hour have done nothing but increase my appreciation. Here he plays a
straight laced cultured character and a hillbilly hick town drug lord
and he plays them both extremely well. Couple this with the fact that
the characters appear on screen together fighting, consoling, shooting,
and conversing, and you can't help but be amazed at the range one man
could show in a single movie.

Despite the performance and the interesting intertwining story of
brother helping brother, I still don't think I can recommend this film.
It delivers some heartfelt moments, ends on sweet spot, and entertains
on somewhat of an emotional level (lot of talk about god, our
existence, good vs. bad, and the importance of family) but has such an
inconsistent tone that tries to do too many things at once (comedy,
action, inspiration, and emotion).

A lot of critics claimed this to be a hidden gem, one of the year's
best. I for one wouldn't 100% agree. It's a small-budget film that
tries to have a big heart. For me, it just didn't quite get there.

For more reviews, please visit http://www.popcornjury.com

Michael Buffa- Editor, Popcorn Jury
