
There are risks when romantic comedy is injected with "truth." Too
little, and it feels like a desperate attempt to give the film
credibility. Too much and it starts to feel uncomfortable as the comedy
is buried in what appear to be a string of life lessons. The Five-Year
Engagement tries to find a balance between comedy and truth and after a
bit over two hours, almost succeeds.

That's not to say the film is bad. It's far from it, especially
compared to what usually passes for a romantic comedy these days. Its
leads (Emily Blunt and Jason Segel) have a surprising, easy chemistry
and director Nicholas Stoller (who co-wrote with Segel) uses the
talented supporting cast to add new perspective and layers to what is a
pretty straightforward story.

Violet (Blunt) is a post-doctorate student. Tom (Segel) is a rising
star of a chef in San Francisco. They get engaged on their first
anniversary and while most romantic comedies would end here, The
Five-Year Engagement does something that romantic comedies fail to do -
showing what happens after the "happy ending." In doing so, we get to
see every crack, seam and bump in their relationship, from Tom's
resentment at leaving his dream job behind to follow Violet after she
receives a fellowship at the University of Michigan, to Violet's
increasing frustration at how Tom changes during his relocation.

It's a credit to Segel and Stoller that the situations that arise do so
organically and don't feel forced in for shock value, and when things
start to deteroriate, we not only see it coming, we solemnly nod
because it is inevitable.

The film has issues, though, and they almost capsize the film. The most
glaring one is the running time. The film clocks in at a bit over two
hours, and you feel every grueling minute of it. The pacing and editing
are a near disaster and at times, watching feels more like a chore than
a good time. This is partially because the film, while billed as a
romantic comedy, is only funny in spurts. The serious 'truths' of being
in a relationship take center stage, which is in itself not a bad
thing, but in a comedy, it really drags the film down.

The ending is typical rom-com schmaltz, though, as if the filmmakers
snapped out of their malaise, thought "hey, aren't we making a comedy?"
and wisely ended the film on an acceptably quirky note.

In the end, The Five-Year Engagement is serviceable entertainment, but
could have been a lot more had they been able to strike the delicate
balance they were trying for.

Daniel FilmPulse.net
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone involved in this movie is so much better than this. I'm kind
of embarrassed for all of them. Did we need a whole movie about how
awful it is to be engaged to a gorgeous, funny, intelligent woman that
you make sacrifices for? I just don't understand the point of it. The
leads were cute enough together, but it didn't feel like a real
relationship. The peaks and troughs were all so contrived and
predictable. And all the "comedy" hinged on genitals, dead
grandparents, Andy from Parks & Rec except inexplicably successful, and
an Asian man with a thick accent. Really? It's 2012, guys. That stuff
is stale.

Allison Brie was fantastic, though.
<|_=00=_|>
I switched this film off after thirty minutes, because in all that time
I did not laugh or even smile and had started to feel a bit ill at the
dangerously pathetic attempts at humour.

I like Jason Segel but Emily Blunt does nothing for me - she is just
quite dull and irritating. However, even Jason Segel could not save
this embarrassing train-wreck of a film.

Just don't bother. If you do you will very quickly regret it when you
see an engagement party with some sad powerpoint presentation of
Segel's exes, with an accompanying song. Yes, because that is both
believable AND hilarious!I was on an eight-hour flight and I preferred
to switch this off and stare out of the window. That should tell you
everything.
<|_=00=_|>
Enjoyable funny movie that portrayed the modern day conflict of a
couple with two careers. Who gives up what and why and how willing are
they to accept the true full meaning of the compromise. Several good
points are made and good analogies used.

Humor works for both guys and gals.

Without spoiling anything, the element used to mark time is somewhat
dark.

Be familiar with the song 'Cu cu ru cu cu Palamo'. It is sung very well
in Spanish early in the course of the movie with no translation but is
tone setting for the movie. Used again in the credits.

At just over 2 hours, this movie seemed to drag at some points and
several scenes could have been edited down a wee bit. Don't need to see
something for 30 seconds or 2 minutes when the point is made and
understood in considerably less time.

I don't see any academy nods for this one nor would I have expected any
for this genre of movie but it was an enjoyable movie for an evening.

My wife and son were there and enjoyed it as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the all time worst films I have ever seen. I am
surprised that theater goers aren't demanding their money back (it
really was that bad). Shame on you Nicholas Stoller for your lack of
direction -- the film was all over the place. I am amazed that Judd
Apatow did not take his name of this one -- it's a real stinker! Great
cast, beautiful locations -- no excuse. With all of the great scripts
that can't get funding, what genius gave this poor attempt at comedy
the green light??!!! No wonder the theater was empty! In addition to
the bad directing, editing and writing, the film was almost two and a
half hours! It was painful to sit through.
<|_=00=_|>
No groundbreaking ideas or themes are presented in The Five-Year
Engagement, but that doesn't mean it's not entertaining. Spurts of
slapstick, a dash of vulgar humor, generous helpings of uncomfortable
awkwardness, and a pinch of melodrama seasons the film with a cross of
genres and unexpected laughs. Although moments of sudden darkness cloud
the generally light-hearted mood, the greatest achievement for
writer/star Jason Segel and writer/director Nicholas Stoller is that
the characters are never despicable and retain a likability that
typically shirks away from roles designed to have dramatic, dynamic ups
and downs.

Tom Solomon (Jason Segel) and Violet Barnes (Emily Blunt) are madly in
love. Despite a repeatedly botched proposal, they are destined to be
wed. But what starts as a short engagement with immediate marriage
planning eventually gets stretched into a couple of years. The lovers
decide to move away from Tom's successful sous-chef job in San
Francisco so that Violet can pursue a psychology career at the
University of Michigan. Head professor Winton Childs (Rhys Ifans)
manages to extend Violet's position there, spreading the engagement
into a five-year stretch that weighs heavily on Tom's contentment and
Violet's ability to handle his perceived lack of success in the new
environment.

With most of Segel's comedies, embarrassing situations and an
inescapable level of coarseness replace genuine creative humor. This
film is no exception, frequently using sexual jokes, carnal activities,
venereal insinuations, and Segel's own seemingly contractually
obligated nudity to fuel the hilarity. The dialogue supports this brand
of badinage, although fortunately it's the underlying allusions to
psychological analysis that stand out when the wit is weak. Commentary
on the different ways men and women cope with problems is particularly
intuitive. Also, one of Violet's focuses in the psychology department
is to conduct an experiment in which subjects fill out forms about
their personal stresses. They are then observed either eating stale
donuts, or waiting for fresh ones to arrive, after being falsely
informed that such new refreshments would be provided. She determines
that people with troubled pasts are more likely to snag an old donut
than those without turmoil in their lives. Throughout the film,
occasionally quite blatantly, the notion that Tom and Violet's
relationship correlates to the donut experiment arises. Indeed, many of
the relationships depicted in the movie are representative of wanting
something new or being content with something that is imperfect yet
satisfying in the moment.

The conclusion wraps up all the dilemmas too neatly, utilizing
contrived methods of repairing debacles and adding nonsensical
solutions of pure fantasy. It's still affable in production despite the
strict adherence to the romantic comedy formula, never betraying the
sense of general decency about the characters (even the love triangle
is broken up without the antagonist resorting to anything unusually
cruel). The supporting roles of Chris Pratt as moronic buddy Alex,
Alison Brie as crybaby sister Suzie, Chris Parnell as a stay-at-home
dad/devoted hunter, and Brian Posehn as a candidly foul-mouthed deli
employee are largely more memorable than the leads (although Blunt is
always watchable). A scene in which Blunt and Brie converse while
imitating Cookie Monster and Elmo, respectively, is impressively silly
and probably the most unforgettable skit. Suzie essentially sums up the
familiar joviality of The Five-Year Engagement when pep-talking Violet
into showing some enthusiasm: "This is your wedding! You only get a few
of these." - The Massie Twins (GoneWithTheTwins.com)
<|_=00=_|>
a lot of these reviews are saying this movie is bad or disappointing,
but honestly its the first movie in a long time that i could relate to.
another aspect i love is the dialogue, it doesn't take itself too
seriously and has real life comedy, instead of trying to be a huge
blockbuster. many think thats a bad thing, but why would you want to
see another Hollywood dramatized cheesy romantic comedy?! its clearly
underrated, jason segal and chris pratt fans should love this movie
thoroughly. the only thing that i wasn't a huge fan of was the British
accents, seems forced at first but the movie is so long that by the end
it all comes together and warms your soul. if you've ever had to move
away because of some girl, you should see this, very relatable comedy,
that's all.
<|_=00=_|>
I tried to make a list of movies which I laughed at less than
Universal's newest release, "The Five-Year Engagement," and could only
think of two: "Observe and Report" and "The Passion Of the Christ."

Films I found much funnier include, "The Love Guru," "Duece Bigalow:
American Gigalo," "All About Steve" and "Platoon." That does not
surprise, however, since this picture was directed by Nicholas Stoller
(who has helmed two of the worst "comedies" of all-time, "Get Him To
the Greek" and "Forgetting Sarah Marshall").

With a cast that features Jason Segel ("The Muppets," "Forgetting Sarah
Marshall," "How I Met Your Mother" TV series, who also co-wrote with
Stoller), Emily Blunt ("Salmon Fishing In the Yemen," "The Devil Wears
Prada"), Chris Pratt ("Moneyball," "Parks and Recreation" TV series),
Alison Brie ("Scream 4," "Mad Men" TV series) and David Paymer ("Quiz
Show," an Academy Award nominee for "Mr. Saturday Night"), there is -
sadly - not one funny moment or humorous situation.

And, at two-plus hours, this monstrosity drags like a bloated beached
grey whale, with no pacing, direction or intriguing plot line to hold
any interest whatsoever.

The story has sous chef, Tom Solomon (Segel), meeting Violet Barnes
(Blunt) at a "super hero" costume party in San Francisco. He's a pink
bunny and she's Princess Diana (for SOME reason). A year later, he
proposes, but a series of contrived events take place to postpone the
nuptials.

She then gets a job in the psychology department at the University of
Michigan, so he gives up his job to travel to Ann Arbor with her. While
there, she meets another group of depressing, humor-impaired
colleagues, including Kevin Hart ("Fool's Gold" - notice the pattern
here of these actors appearing in terrible comedies?), Mindy Kaling
("The Office" TV series) and Randall Park ("Larry Crowne").

Meanwhile, he struggles to find work, finally getting a job making
sandwiches at a greasy spoon diner. As she rises in the eyes of her
professor, the irritating Brit Winton Childs (Rhys Ifans, "Nanny McPhee
Returns" *sigh*), Tom turns into Grizzly Adams, growing a ridiculous
beard, making his own mead and killing his own food.

The film then lurches from "cerebreal" comedy to a romantic drama as
the two fall out, have short flings with other people (Tom is smeared
with potato salad and nearly raped by a co-worker) and separate.

Then just as quickly, the movies introduces some wild slapstick in
which Violet gets shot with an arrow and slammed with a car door; while
Tom wanders out on a freezing night, suffers frostbite and loses a toe
(this is supposed to be laugh-inducing?!). Other "hilarious" moments in
this enterprise are supposed to be the funerals of various grandparents
who died waiting for this marriage to take place. Pardon my belly
laughs.

While Violet moves in with Winton, Tom begins dating a younger woman
who seems to be insatiable in bed. In fact, the soft-core porn scenes
here are so monotonous (showing intercourse from ever possible angle
while she screams, "Faster Tom, faster!") that the sex becomes
unbelievably annoying and makes one wish for the passion and lucidity
of a 1970s porno flick.

What will happen to the star-crossed lovers? If you're like me, you
will not care one bit, since all they seem to do is bicker and have
absolutely no chemistry, anyway. There also is not one likable or even
redeeming character here. 

Even Tom's best friend, Alex (Pratt), and Violet's sister, Suzi (Brie),
who hook up after she is impregnated on a one-night stand, are so
shallow and badly-written as to induce a malaise of immense proportion.

And Segel, who helped bring the Muppets back to the big screen (an
effort I have praised), is the worst culprit of all, as his Tom is
basically one of the biggest jerks in recent comedy history, yet
despite his aggressive repulsiveness, Violet cries (several times
during the proceedings), "I love you, so much, I love you so much."

Love is an emotion few will feel about "The Five-Year Engagement,"
which is about the length of time one will believe they have actually
spent watching this claptrap.
<|_=00=_|>
Alas, this is another example of a movie with some possibility  it has
a plot, decent casting and acting, some humor  but it still manages to
leave the viewer, for the most part, having fallen into the pit of
displeasure. Once again the writers have chosen to forgo sparkling
dialog, or even intelligent dialog, in favor of the gratuitous foul
language and blatant sex. Such a waste. Makes me wonder if today's
screenwriters opt to cop out on creativity on purpose. Or - have they
no imagination? Do they assume the theater audience has none? Trust me,
a few things left to the imagination can be far sexier,and probably
funnier and entertaining than the in-your-face stuff. And tossing the F
word around like confetti at Mardi Gras is boring. Maybe this actually
does indicate a severe lack of talent on the parts of the
writers/producers. Or could it be that movies like this, that have
their moments, but not enough of them, are produced for the soul
purpose of making the good movies look even better. Just a thought.
<|_=00=_|>
I am always leery of actors who want to take more control of their
careers by either writing, directing or producing movies. It is
painfully obvious Jason Segel is more suited to be given lines and
directed than to try to write his own scripts. This fell into the same
category as American Pie and had the same mean spiritedness as The
Breakup." It was just a train wreck from jump street. 

What I also found offensive was the buffoonery of the supporting cast.
He is supposed to be some up and coming chef working in a high end
restaurant in San Francisco where is co-worker, mind you simulates
masturbation with a carrot replete with a facial money shot in an
exhibition kitchen. How do you spell FAIL? His chef is depicted as some
crazy lesbian who is nothing but unhinged and the whole thing was
frustrating to watch since I've been in the industry for over 25 years. 

They depict these two as great communicators deeply in love but for the
life of them cannot work out their futures together and as stereotypes
in Hollywood go, Segel then proceeds to fall completely apart now
becoming a rabid hunter coupled with really bad ironic facial hair. We
almost turned this horrid thing off it weren't for the voyeur in us try
to see the movie could get any worse. It did. The two scenes Segel
actually uses the knife is to basically butcher the living hell out of
onions. Ugh. 

Laughs were to a minimum and crass and unrealistic gags were never
ending. I didn't buy the genuine connection between the two that the
writers were trying to create and frankly,I want my $5.99 back from
Comcast. What a complete waste of money.
