
I confess to having followed Jack Abramoff's actual denouement years
ago only as much as I could tolerate without gagging. My feelings
toward lobbyists are mostly of disgust anyway. But to separate this
work of art from the morality of its subject matter, I must say that
this is a fine, fine film. Mr. Hickenlooper's death is a profound loss
to all of us. I find Kevin Spacey and Barry Pepper at the top of their
form here. The character and the situation give Spacey a broad stage to
display his talents and range. Abramoff is no easy character to portray
with any sympathy at all, and I had virtually none, but my outrage over
the facts didn't spoil my enjoyment of the entertainment one bit. A
tribute to all involved.

As far as the abuses portrayed, all I can say is, I really hope the
American citizenry somehow wakes up and unites to end the stranglehold
that cash has put on our democracy. The utter hypocrisy and
self-serving, greedy behavior of our politicians is harming us for
generations to come. If they truly love their country, they must reject
and expose lobbyists sacrificing our national welfare to Mammon.
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Abramoff was a very successful but very greedy Washington lobbyist
who now sits in a federal jail serving out his 4 year prison term
scheduled to released later this year. Director George Hickenlooper had
the idea to tell his story and enlisted writer Norman Snider to put
together the screenplay based on the facts of this true story.
Hickenlooper spent 30 hours visiting Abramoff in prison to gather as
much information as possible to add to their study of the historical
documents upon which this movie was based. Oscar winning actor Kevin
Spacey who plays Abramoff participated in one of these five jailhouse
visits and he apparently hit it off quite well with the protagonist
despite their being at opposite poles of the political spectrum. If you
know the widely reported story of how Abramoff took excessive fees from
multiple Indian tribes, was involved with shady business deals and paid
off congressmen landing at least one in jail and causing Tom Delay
majority leader of Senate to quit this position and his Senate seat,
you may be a little bored as the details are played out. On the other
hand, many viewers will be getting a great history lesson at the same
time that they are seeing a very well done movie. Barry Pepper is
sufficiently nefarious in looks and deeds as Michael Scanlon,
Abramoff's partner who deserved more than he got for punishment. Jon
Lovitz plays an almost completely serious role as a not so smart and
crooked enough to end up in jail, business associate of Abramoff.
Political junkies will love this movie. You can't help coming away from
seeing it without wondering how can we let our political system
continue to function without reigning in lobbyists. Hickenlooper
related an incident, which he touches upon at the end of the film,
where while in jail anticipating his release shortly before the
upcoming 2010 elections Abramoff has expressed a desire to collaborate
with the Democrats and reveal information that he knows about the
Republicans in order to hurt them in this and future elections. While
this film is scheduled for wide release and distribution prior to the
November election, there is also another movie coming out at the same
time about Abramoff, which is an actual documentary and may have the
same name as this one. Instead of Kevin Spacey that one will star the
real Abramoff.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Spacey is truly an actor to adore. The Two-Time Academy-Award
Winner has proved his talent time and again. In 'Casino Jack', he gets
even better and delivers a superb performance. 

'Casino Jack' is based on Jack Abramoff. Abramoff, is one of the most
notorious lobbyist's ever. 'Casino Jack', however focuses, on the time
when Abramoff & his protégé went down hard...as their schemes to peddle
influence lead to corruption and a brutal murder. 

Director George Hickenlooper does a good job, while Norman Snider's
writing is flawed. The writing in the first hour is spot-on, but in the
second hour, it falters. Even the culmination for that matter, doesn't
leave the desired impact. Acting wise, as told, Spacey owns the film.
He plays Abramoff superbly. He truly is an Icon! Barry Pepper is
Excellent. 

On the whole, 'Casino Jack' can be viewed once, for it's lead star's
performance. Must for Spacey Fans!
<|_=00=_|>
2010 seems to be the year that Hollywood universally decided to take
its look at one of the great government scandals this past decade,
producing both the documentary Casino Jack and the United States of
Money, and this accompanying (albeit more fictionalized) account of
disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff. After seemingly searching for a juicy
role since his duel Oscar winning performances in the mid to late '90s
with The Usual Suspects and American Beauty, Kevin Spacey is back in
fine form and dominates the screen in this frequently enjoyable, though
heavily flawed, rise and fall fable.

Oddly, what makes this movie great also represents its largest
shortcomings. The acting is as varied as Abramoff's excuses pertaining
to the generous "donations" he receives in the film itself. Barry
Pepper as Jack's right-hand man Michael steals scenes at a whim when
given the chance and could have easily elevated the film further if
given more screen time. Spacey is superb bringing a delicious blend of
pompous charm and sleazy anger to the role, and even manages to deliver
both a credible Sylvester Stallone and Al Pacino impression amidst the
political turmoil his character eventually encounters.

On the other hand, there are some disastrously misguided casting
choices, beginning with Kelly Preston as Jack's wife and even though
she exhibits some swagger towards the beginning to the film, she is
unable to keep up with more skilled thespians as situations escalate
towards the finale. The most egregious error is most certainly the
inclusion of Jon Lovitz as the owner of a cruise line and casino who
undertakes business dealings with Abramoff. Lovitz has proved himself a
skilled comedian in supporting roles and did consistently great voice
work on The Simpsons. Here, he is an unmitigated disaster, single
handily sinking the picture on multiple occasions. He seems oblivious
as to when to calm down, his camera mugging and inflections are
grinding, and he is apparently unable to quit being Jon Lovitz and
simply shut up; this is simply a poor choice by late director George
Hickenlooper.

The story at play is a fascinating one, and seeing Jack at his
manipulative best even as his world comes crashing down is engrossing.
The middle portion however does its bookend acts an injustice, sagging
down the segments exploring the infamous lobbyist rise and his
inevitable fall. Hickenlooper seems unable to decide how to structure
the transition; not how Spacey handles the material pertaining to his
character's downfall, but rather the jumble of events by which it is
precipitated. Though the event itself makes for inspired reading in
venues such as the news or a fact-based doc, perhaps there is not
enough substantial material (or maybe too much) to make a fully
compelling fictionalized account.

Though ultimately less than the sum of its parts, Casino Jack is
timely, passionately constructed and true to its source events.
Abramoff is successfully made into the three-dimensional character that
those close to him likely knew, and that the media was never able to
(or more likely never wanted to) capture. Spacey is without a doubt a
large part of this indelibly fiery characterization and strangely
(obviously for reasons we will never know) seems more invested in this
character than he has in any during the last ten years. Casino Jack's
follies are all the more disappointingly glaring considering how strong
the hard-hitting portions were, and though better than the average
fact-based account, good enough is never good enough when greatness
seems to be within reach.
<|_=00=_|>
Both gobsmakingingly awesome in its (true) take on Washington and just
way OTT look at the Beltway, CJ is just so good. Honestly, if this had
been made as fiction you'd shoot it down as implausible - the stink
goes how high? - but here we see lobbyist and senators in cahoots to
get the dollar in their pocket at the expense of just about every body
else.

Spacey is in fine form, with a sterling support cast, and the film is
best viewed as a buckle up and grin fair ride to the underbelly of
politics - it really is so way beyond your standard black comedy or
satire that it's just jaw dropping.

We enjoyed CJ - it doesn't aim to be a political thriller or have any
great message but it is a lot of black comedy and seriously messed-up
situations from beginning to end.....

Have fun now.....
<|_=00=_|>
How long can you screw someone before you get caught? The true story of
super-lobbyist Jack Abramoff (Spacy) and his partner Michael Scanlon
(Pepper). After finding a contribution loophole, Abramoff and Scanlon
begin to exploit this and become very, very rich. I enjoyed this movie.
I like true story movies, and I really enjoy political ones too. There
was a lot of stuff in here I didn't know about. The amount he took and
the favors he gave out are astounding. This movie really exposes the
lengths that he and other senators will go to in order to get what they
want. The movie is filled with different movie quotes from the
"Godfather", "Rocky" and others, which is fun (Spacy is a pretty good
impressionist). Overall I really liked this movie, and found myself
liking Abramoff even less then before. The amount of money he through
around to get his way is enough to make you sick, especially when you
think a lot of our tax money went to helping him by a casino boat.
Abramoff gets an F, as for the movie, I give it a B+.

Would I watch again? - Yes I would, this is the kind of movie I like
<|_=00=_|>
"Casino Jack" tells the real life story of Jack Abramoff (Kevin
Spacey), who at one time held a successful career as a lobbyist in
Washington, DC. Abramoff, like most lobbyists, was paid by big
companies and organizations to help convince Members of Congress to
vote for or against certain things in the senate. The film focuses on a
massive corruption scandal that led himself, two White House officials,
and 10 other lobbyists and congressional members to be convicted. This
film is an interesting and somewhat humorous tale of just how far greed
and money will take you in America.

I am not a news junkie by any means but I do remember this news story
when it happened back in 2006. For those who don't recall, Jack
Abramoff became a big focus in the news back in 2006 because he was
convicted of fraud, tax invasion, and conspiracy. The film itself never
really discusses his sentence however focuses on all the events leading
up to it. Now given the fact that this is a movie, I am sure they took
some liberties on the story to make it more entertaining. I will have
to admit however that this movie seemed pretty realistic and seemed
like most of it was based on fact. The people involved in lobbying
probably fear films like this because I am sure it shows their true
colors. The film really shows how anyone can be bought for the right
price and the right amount of negotiation.

Kevin Spacey nails the role of Jack Abramoff in the film. We all
remember Spacey from the 1990's when he amazed us in "American Beauty,"
"L.A. Confidential," and "Usual Suspects" but recently his films just
haven't been delivering. However, I am happy to say with "Casino Jack"
I really enjoyed his role. It was a very interesting role, he was a
little crazy, a bit of a smooth talker, but yet overall a likable guy.
I noticed Spacey got nominated for a Golden Globe for his performance
in this flick and I have to admit either him or Paul Giamatti should
get it. This is the first time since 2005 where I think Spacey has
actually found a role that fit him as an actor. He was really superb in
this flick.

Other than Spacey, there were some good supporting actors here. Barry
Pepper, does a good job of getting the audience to hate him. He plays a
young clueless womanizer who is also a lobbyist helping out Jack. Kelly
Preston plays Jack's wife and she doesn't have much of a part but does
add a little bit of flair to some of the scenes. Jon Lovitz plays a
great overweight and clueless man who doesn't know a thing about bad
investments. He like Barry Pepper's character is also a bit of a
womanizer but than again isn't that how most of those people in
politics are.

The film was directed by George Hickenlooper, who oddly enough died
before the film was actually released. This officially marks his final
film as a director. I can't say I have seen any of his previous work
but I definitely like his take on this story. It was a very dark and
sometimes funny look at things. His vision for Spacey as I said above
was dead on. Huckenlooper really unlocked the dark side of politics
with this film and really showcased how everyone has a price and even
the most likable guys can have dark side.

Norman Snider wrote the screenplay for "Casino Jack" and really did a
wonderful job creating the man known to the world as Jack Abramoff.
With the help of Hickenlooper directing, Snider's script really made
these actors seem like the people they were suppose to present. The
script itself was very well written with great dialogue and focused on
some of the key elements of the scandal. Snider did an excellent job
with character development and that is really what made the film work.
This is a very character driven story so its good to see that Snider
made it his priority to focus on that.

In the end, I think with the right marketing this film could have been
a lot bigger. I was surprised to see how middle of the road most
reviews were for this movie. I thought it was a really solid drama with
some comedic elements and a great performance by Kevin Spacey. I also
have to say that the tag line for the film, "Honor. Integrity.
Principles. Everything is Negotiable" is a perfect summary for the
movie. If you like films based on actual events with a well written
story than you will probably like this. This is definitely a very
political film and really does make most politicians and lobbyists look
like complete asses but than again don't well all feel that way now?
Isn't everyone in government a crook and about themselves? I think a
lot of people tend to believe this and this movie only showcases that
more. It was a well made and well acted movie and for that I give it
solid marks.

MovieManMenzel's final rating for "Casino Jack" is a 8 out of 10. Kevin
Spacey's performance is worth the price of admission alone.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a difficult time dealing with this movie, partly because the
entire system of lobbying is so despicable in itself, and partly
because the writer has done his best to show Jack Abramoff as a
fundamentally nice guy who just overreached a little and got caught.

I mean, right at the beginning, after we see Kevin Spacey (superb)
talking to himself in a mirror, we hear his explanation of why
lobbyists exist. Because they're useful. They give legislators
information about subjects the legislators need to know something about
in order to do their jobs.

That explanation comes straight out of a now unfashionable school of
sociological thought called functionalism. If something exists in a
society, it's there for a good reason. Otherwise it wouldn't be there,
right? Whores make the streets safe for our wives and children. The
Mafia fills in the gaps that the police force can't, and it meets a
market demand among consumers of illegal goods. Mass murderers and
psychopaths provide us with bad examples that we can point out to our
kids so they'll know what not to become.

According to the film, Abramoff just did was everyone else was doing.
He only had the misfortune of being caught. Nobody argues that perhaps
congressional aides or interns ought to be doing the research instead
of paid lobbyists. No explanation is offered for why spending on
lobbyists more than doubled between 2000 and 2009.

There are no such reality intrusions. Abramoff is a colorful, funny,
very active guy. He works out. He loves his family. He knows everyone.
He's religious. He opens a kosher restaurant on K Street and plans to
open a Hebrew school.

A second reason I found it hard to assess the movie is that I didn't
understand it because I'm too dumb. I couldn't follow all the
shenanigans. Okay. In one of his minor deals, towards the beginning,
the Chippewa tribe, among whom I once lived as a cultural
anthropologist, gave him millions of dollars and the money apparently
disappeared. Where? I don't know. I told you I was dumb. I don't know
what an expression like "he wants ten percent under the table" means. I
don't know why a Greek was killed. I don't know why Jon Lovitz got
stabbed with a ball point pen. Tom DeLay has a prominent role and I
don't know what he did that was supposed to be bad. Abramoff makes some
venomous remark about George W. Bush at the end and I don't know why.
And I can hardly credit the notion that Mike Scanlon's (Barry Pepper,
with a great twisted face) girl friend dropped the dime on all these
enterprises because she found a pair of red alien panties in her boy
friend's laundry. It's the kind of movie that someone as stupid as I am
needs a little preparation for -- a few hours of studying with a book
called "Lobbying for Dummies" or something.

Because except for the murder I couldn't identify a single illegal act
in the entire movie. Lobbyists give money to politicians and the
politicians do favors in return. It sounds a lot like bribery to me,
and I know THAT'S illegal, or at least I think it is, but I don't know
why, when it takes one form, it's called "lobbying" and is as kosher as
Abramoff's restaurant that serves the best roast beef in the city, and
why, when it takes another form, it's called "bribery" and you go to
jail.

I do, however, recognize a decent performance when I see one, and three
performances are stand outs in this production. Kevin Spacey, a little
older and chubbier, gets to do some of his impersonations -- Clinton,
Al Pacino, and a few others, and he's good. Barry Pepper as Scanlon is
terrific as well, as the emotionally unstable squeal cat. And Jon
Lovitz is funny, no matter whether the part calls for a comic
presentation or not. He's hilarious in some scenes, which I won't spell
out.

Not a masterpiece by any means -- "Barbarians At The Gates" is about
leveraged buy outs and it's better -- but worth seeing once. I hope you
have better luck in decoding the events than I did.
<|_=00=_|>
The most awful thing about Casino Jack is knowing it is true, knowing
all the good people being fleeced, taken for a ride, are real, knowing
that the central theme of this story is alive, kicking and fuelled for
take-off even now.

As a dramatisation it works because we do not have to dwell on the
complexity of the deals being set up, who is ripping off who, who is
the biggest liar. The film's smart pace allows us to soak up the facts
like ink on blotting paper and at our own pace.

Thankfully we can lose ourselves in the characters, all of whom are
played to perfection by a very strong cast, and all of whom resonate to
the people we see and hear about on TV, in the media, even in show
business. These are the folk who have more money than sense, or, more
accurately, more credit and no shame if they can get away with making
huge profits immorally. Less appealing are the players in real life who
really are being torn apart through their desperation for attention,
for expressions of interest, where any interest may be better than
nothing. In this area we are left to feel morally lacking for not doing
more to stop this kind of stuff. But the story simply keeps rolling
along and we witness the demise of the main characters Abramoff
(Spacey) and Scanlon (Pepper) just as it happened in real life.

The opening of the movie sets the scene well into the plot where much
of the twisting and double crossing has already begun to unravel. Then
we are witness to the events as they unfold through the deals, the
double crosses, and the nasty side of greed (is there a nice side?). As
the credits roll we also see a couple of the real life events depicted
in the movie played back to us, to allow us to judge authenticity. I
wonder if this was the only mistake the film makes. I felt the film
spoke for itself.

As distressing and disturbing as the film's subject should be it is
played out in such a way as we are information and knowledge gathering
much like a media warning about "this is what lobbying really is". It
is also a shrewd warning as to how shameless and immoral some people
are when they are saying nice things to you, as if we needed a warning!
I found it worthwhile to research the subject of lobbying a little more
after I had seen this film and found myself disbelieving some of the
things I have found out. This alone convinced me the film does not pull
any punches.

Watch it just to wise up. Fortunately it is acted so powerfully and so
sharply you will not want to look away.
<|_=00=_|>
Ambition Is like the sea wave, which the more you drink The more you
thirstyeadrink too much, as men Have done on rafts of wreckit drives
you mad. Tennyson:The Cup. Act i. Scene 3.

Jack Abramoff (Kevin Spacey) may be the most notorious lobbyist of all
time: The fees he received from tribes with casino interests were in
the millions, navigated through Mike Scanlon (Barry Pepper) so as not
to violate laws placing limits on those fees for licensed lobbyists.
This jaunty docudrama has the boldness of Abromov himself as it uses
the actual names of politicians like Tom DeLay (Spencer Garrett) and
Bob Nye (Jeff Postil), who ended up indicted for their parts in
influence peddling. All the main characters have the names of real
players, and while the film claims only to be "inspired" by real
events, these characters were found guilty in real life.

Spacey plays Abramoff as a wheeler-dealer who knows he's getting deeper
in trouble but can't stop himself. His apparent good deeds for the
disadvantaged, such as his schools, couldn't mask the shenanigans he
went through to get enough cash to float the good deeds, his two
restaurants, and off-shore casinos. All the time his wife (Kelly
Preston) is worried because of late notices for the mortgage.

During this time, certain Native Americans are on to his tricks and
closing in on his exorbitant fees for uncertain profit to the
reservations. In this regard, the story is as you would guess itthe
rise and fall of a gifted but flawed lobbyist who couldn't abide by the
rules. 

Although he appears relatively high-spirited and hopeful in prison, I
have a feeling this upbeat ending may not be the way he spent his time.
Events only "inspired" I must remember. 

Eventually even President Bush, who profited from Abramoff's ability to
reap funds for Republican campaigns, would not sign a pardon for him.
