
Zonad might not get the appreciation from the description, but this
movie was a pleasant surprise. I thought the reality created by the
Carney Brothers was refreshing, lite, and enjoyable. At no point did I
want to reject that ignorance and acceptance of the space visitor by
the towns people, which is a credit to the writing, direction, and
performances.

Janice Byrne enticed at every opportunity as the "precocious" and
"sexually-frustrated" Jenny, giving Simon Delaney ample moments to
shine in his claimed naivete. Delaney, as Zonad, exceeded all
expectations, which there were none, so he gets many exaltations. The
minor characters added enough charm and quaint towny-vibe to cause no
distrust of them. Bonad's addition was a comic gem, the perfect
antagonist for this piece. Donna Dent even sold her flirtatious
motherly role very well.

Technically, there was nothing remarkable, but the cocaine induced
speed up produce a chuckle along with the song choice.

Overall, nice zany moments, and a comedy worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Zonad is probably an alien. What other explanation could there be for
finding a red, leather-clad man passed out on your living room floor?
So the charade begins. The ruse is obvious to us of course because
everything about Zonad is just plain stupid, and funny.

This film finds an hilarious way to tackle naivet√© vs. experience,
alcoholism vs. sobriety, and mankind vs extraterrestrials. All the
characters had such amusing, naive character traits, that it is more
fun to accept Zonad than not. It was surprising how easy it was for
made up aliens to get laid, but such is the way of life in Ballymoran,
Ireland.

If you enter this town, you will need to fall for the sexual and
musical charms of Zonad and his fellow alien, Bonad, otherwise you will
find yourself on the outside of the city limits with no way back in.
"Zonad" is recommended for those that like the quirky charms of small
Irish towns mixed with the alcohol-induced and sexually-laced jokes for
American audiences but written with the smart and adept skill of small,
independent filmmakers.
<|_=00=_|>
When I read the jacket for this I thought they must be kidding.

It's pretty much as low brow as it gets, it's certainly not going to
win any awards, nor become a hidden gem or even some kind of
underground cult classic.

In fact there are many aspects of it, which on face value are just
plane bad.

But hold on a minute, why is it then, that when I think back on it, it
makes me smile? Why is the friendly visitor track stuck in my head? I'm
not sure I know.

But, if you find yourself in the supermarket looking through the under
a fiver DVD bin and you come across this film, and then one bored
afternoon you find you have 74 minutes spare (it's mercifully short),
give it a watch.

It's not great, but there is something about it that's quintessentially
Irish in the best possible way.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has received mixed reviews in the press. Either you "get it",
it seems, or you don't. I was definitely amused. The film creates a
milieu all of its own; a cross between 1950's California and
"traditional" Ireland. Some have criticised the setting as being too
incredible, in which case they are taking it all too seriously. There
are some things that might have been done better. I don't think the
production values were great. I didn't like the picture quality, the
lighting wasn't great (night scenes in particular were very murky,
daytime interior scenes were spoiled by the windows being completely
washed out). Perhaps a lot of this is down to the fact that the Carney
Brothers change things a lot on the hoof, making it difficult for every
one else to keep up. Too bad. Maybe they just need more experience.

Film does miss a few tricks. There was plenty of room to explore how
the main protagonists came by their original costumes. Just a few comic
touches would have made a difference. They could have be shown
literally digging their way out of the rehab institute(a parody of
Shawshank Redemption comes to mind). Just simply overlaying the sound
of distant baying hounds over their escape through the forest would
have been funny. Other things. It could have been funnier, with a
little more work, or perhaps more people to work on the script. The
boxing match could have been funnier too; there's a whole genre of
boxing movies just begging to be parodied, but not here.

Good performances all round. Pearse was very good, and in fact I wonder
what it would have been like if he had the lead part. He's a funny guy,
and savvy with it. That's not to take anything away from Delaney.

Unfortunately (I sigh) as is so often the case with Irish movies, film
is let down by unnecessary crudity. There was no need for the faux-choc
use of the F word to describe what Zonad was doing to the women of
Ballymoran (they should have gone all the way, by the way, and called
it Ballymorawn); it would have been much funnier for the characters to
say he was riding them. Also, I didn't think that the cop p*ssing all
over some of the main characters was all that funny (believe me, it
looks funnier here in print than it is on the screen. It would have
been much funnier if they at least made the victims completely sopping,
drenched/soaked through). The scene where a major character invites his
girlfriend to gargle with his balls (among other intimate invitations)
wasn't funny at all. These shenanigans serve only to reduce the
audience for the film. The Oirish penchant for having somebody p*ssing
or sh*tting at some point is fully indulged, of course.

Film may be especially interesting to some sections of the American
audience interested in Ireland and the Irish. There is a saying; "many
a true word is said in jest". Zonad is a big joke (in the best sense)
but the insights it gives are all the more true for it, bigger and more
colorful than they might otherwise be.
<|_=00=_|>
My sweet jayzuz! In only 75 minutes this pea-brain adolescent wreck
seeks to cut the legs out from under the long-deserved Irish rep as a
country of endearing, witty and artful storytellers.

One of the worst movies I have ever seen (and I am an ancient, so I
have seen plenty). After watching the entire film because my beloved
wife wouldn't give up on it, I could only think: boring, sophomoric,
witless, crude, poorly acted, jam packed with the requisite "dirty
words" and pissing sequences... Great gawd almighty, wot has become of
motion picture culture??? Have ye no shame, ye "Irish" poseurs? But
then I read something here or on Netflix indicating that this
production should be seen as a parody of American teenage gross-out
movies. Oh, OK, now I get it: a witless parody of a witless genre!
Right. Seen like this, I guess it is a masterpiece.

Do yourself a favor, forget this empty glass. Go make a friend at the
pub around the corner and raise a glass and sing a dirge to the Irish
wit of yore.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not quite sure what I just watched, to be honest. This movie is not
to be taken seriously. If you take it seriously, it's not going to be
fun for you one tiny little iota. It's super silly, gloriously goofy
and incredibly insane -- and yes, even ferociously funny.

The folks of Ballymoran are a simple Irish folk. They don't ask many
questions and are extremely naive (that is an understatement). I don't
know if there is a more clueless family in the World, let alone
Ireland, than the Cassidys. Dad Richard (Minogue), mom Mary (Dent), son
Jimmy (Maher) and precocious schoolgirl Jenny (Byrne) are out late one
night watching the skies in hopes of catching a glimpse of a passing
comet when they come home to find a man passed out on the floor dressed
in a red leather outfit. Since they just came from stargazing and alien
chit-chat, the Cassidys assume he's from space. He likes where this
idea is headed, so he tells them that he is and they cannot pronounce
his name in their Earth-tongue but they may call him Zonad (Delaney).
They allow him to sleep in their son's room but he is obviously more
interested in sleeping with..... er, in Jenny's room. Zonad tries to
leave but circumstances prevent him from actually leaving their sleepy
little Hamlet and he has to proceed with his ruse in order to keep his
freedom. From there, the townsfolk treat him as if he were a celebrity
or king, giving him free drinks and erecting statues of him in the town
square, the girls from Jenny's school flirt with him mercilessly,
offering him their "talents", if you will. The only person who's not
keen on Zonad's arrival is Guy Hendrickson (Keenan), Jenny's boyfriend.
He is a very shy, very gullible soul. He even pooh-pooh's Jenny's
offering of sexual intercourse as she talks about it rather candidly in
front of her parents and brother. Guy enlists the help of Dr. Ziegler
(De Salvo) and their attempts to try and defraud Zonad are met with
scoffs and disdain. So, a cop with a very pissy attitude (Wycherley)
blackballs them from the town of Ballymoran. But, soon enough, Zonad's
past comes to bite him in the ass and even more hilarity ensues...

Don't try to think this movie through at all. As I said, it's
completely off-the-charts nuts. Is it believable? Hell, no. There
aren't people out there this stupid -- I don't care how hard you look
for them, you aren't going to find them. If you have a problem with
that, then walk away from this movie right now. This movie's sole
purpose is to entertain and make you laugh. And it succeeded for me. I
did laugh. It's so utterly nonsensical, I had no choice but to laugh.
Sure, there were a few scenes that the filmmakers thought were
hysterical that didn't exactly hit the mark, but when you make a movie
of this nature, that's what it's all about. It's got a variety of jokes
and gags in it to try and make everyone laugh.

The movie won't sit well with people who get offended by course
language and/or sexual themes dealing with young girls in high school.
Over in Western Europe, their legal age of consent for sex is like...
16, I think -- so it's far less controversial over there than it is
here in the States. No nudity is shown, but there are sexual
themes/content/talk and sex is implied. I thought it was done in a
tasteful manner myself, but then again, I don't get offended that
easily. All in all, it's one big silly goofball of a movie that you'll
be glad you watched. More reviews at www.soveryterry.com Final Grade:
B-
