
Post Grad is obviously not the greatest movie out there. It's not going
to win any awards, or be loved by the critics. However, it is still a
cute movie that allows you to escape for an hour and forty minutes. It
has some really funny scenes, and has moral lessons to teach. It's not
being received very well and I understand why. It's just a light,
fluffy, little movie more suitable for the younger ages. I admit, it
could have been better but I wasn't expecting much from the beginning.
It was simply a fun little comedy, and one that I'm sure many people
can relate to. I didn't find Alexis Bledel annoying. She gave the role
all it needed. Her love interest Zach Gilford, was cute and did a
decent job. Michael Keaton was the funniest character hands down, and
the rest of Bledel's family offered much of the comedy in the film. In
all, it's an enjoyable film. I would recommend renting it though, it's
not really a theatre-worthy film.
<|_=00=_|>
Now i'm not going to say this film was a classic or something you will
want to watch over and over. What I can say about this film is that it
was very surprising and offbeat despite the way the film was promoted.

Bandslam promoting take 2. Like the film Bandslam headlined by Disney
stars, this film suffers from a lack of realistic advertising.
Basically the film you think your going to see, you aren't. Bandslam
was not a Disney film so much as a quirky teen comedy about diversity
and the unification of those otherwise lone wolves for a greater cause.

Post Grad is essentially a film about a girl, Alexis Bledel, whose
ideas of life post grad come crashing down around her when she realizes
it isn't as she assumed it would be. Finding a job is much tougher then
expected, and it doesn't help that she is unqualified, but over
confident.

The film delves a little deeper with a lot of little subplots ranging
from cute to over the top and strange, grandmother shopping for her own
coffin.

The film was pretty offbeat and not as mainstream slapstick as it comes
off in the trailers. It is a semi realistic film and Alexis does the
best I have seen her do since Season one of Gilmore Girls. While she
isn't Meryl Streep she plays the role of Ryden with great presence.

I thoroughly enjoyed the film and think that if it had better promoting
and was targeted also at indie film fans, this film had the potential
to be a hit.

Jane Lynch is also really great in the film, serving her character
dutifully. Overall I was surprised and enjoyed the film, despite the
negative reviews it has received.

This isn't a plant review FYI, check my posting history if you will, I
saw the film, and enjoyed it. I would give it a chance. It's a fun
light film, perfect to take your mind off the current state of economy
and Swine Flu worries floating about.

A fun, fun film. Check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
Ryden Malby is a young woman who planned most of her academic life:
since school to her dream job. She always had good grades in school and
in College, and now that she is graduated, she is certain that she will
get a job as assistant editor in the publishing house Happerman &
Browning, in L.A. But sadly for her,Jessica Bard, her arrogant
classmate and biggest rival, gets the position she dreamed of. And
Ryden is forced to return home to live with her parents again, where
she will need to deal with lots of frustrations and many refuses of the
jobs she is applying to.

I decided to watch this movie because at first, I liked the plot (the-
graduating- girl -who- stays -unemployed- for- a -long -time is much
more realistic then that thing in the movies that shows that everybody
who graduates has an incredible job who pays you a lot of money!). But
as I started watching it, I saw that the movie doesn't have anything
special: it doesn't work as a comedy, since it's not funny, and doesn't
work as a drama or real life story. We see Ryden struggle a lot to
finally get a good job, and when she finally gets it, she gave up in
order to run away after her best friend? Seriously, I found that so
stupid and unreal. I know this is a movie and we shouldn't worry too
much about it, but I don't think the final message of it matches with
the character's dreams or realizations. Sorry, doesn't work for me.

The only thing I really liked in this movie was to see Rodrigo Santoro,
my hot compatriot, in a movie with more lines and more acting then the
previous ones he participated.
<|_=00=_|>
Ryden (Alexis Bledel) is a new college graduate. She plans to work at a
huge firm, but doesn't get the job. Now she is forced to move into her
old house with her eccentric family. She has her wacky mom, Carmella
(Jane Lynch), her caring dad, Walter (Michael Keaton), her best friend,
Adam (Zach Gilford), and her brother, Hunter (Bobby Coleman). She has
to balance moving back into the nest while trying to find a decent job.
Bledel has a certain charm, a certain spark in her, but she is stuck
with a character you simply can't like. She doesn't like Adam dating
anyone, but she refuses to date Adam. All she has to do is find a
decent job, but ends up complaining when she takes a horrible job. The
whole cast, including Lynch, Keaton, Coleman, and Gilford are all so
good, and I've seen them be good in other stuff. They all are pretty
good here, but also have characters you are forced to not like. It's
just a mess of a film with a certain charm, a certain spark of light to
it. Unfortunately, you can't connect with these characters, and you do
not care what happens to any of these characters. This makes this a
movie that's not terrible, but you can do better, so don't kick
yourself if you never see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In a word: awkward.

Why on earth did I watch this film? I like Zach Gilford, and his
performance was pretty good for the most part. But the movie itself? I
can't really say anything good about it. Chunks of action/dialogue
seemed to be missing, and some of the performances felt a little off.

The only thing I commend is, bizarrely, the DVD extras. They have some
awesome career advice from experts like Marcus Buckingham, and other
fun bits that felt like a breath of fresh air (especially to those who
recently graduated) So, skip the film, but watch for the special
features. It'll save you time, and you might learn a thing or two.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
So does Alexis Bledel plan to build a movie career out of tracing the
hypothetical life trajectory of the character she created on "Gilmore
Girls?" 

This is the second movie I've seen this year in which Bledel basically
plays Rory Gilmore at the stage of her life she would generally be in
if "Gilmore Girls" was still on the air. In this movie, she's a perky
go-getter who's aghast when she finds out that the world will not
necessarily adapt itself to her designs and whims, until...guess
what....it does and she gets everything she wanted anyway.

This movie is harmless enough, but the only thing that makes it more
worth your time than something from the straight-to-DVD bargain bin in
the supermarket (or maybe this WAS one of those films) is a crazy and
admittedly pretty funny performance from Michael Keaton as Bledel's
doofus father.

Grade: B-
<|_=00=_|>
Ryden Malby (Alexis Bledel) has planned her academic life since she was
in high-school to get a college scholarship; now she has just graduated
in English and in her master plan she expects to get a job as assistant
editor in the publishing house Happerman & Browning, in Los Angeles.
Her platonic best friend is Adam Davis (Zach Gilford) that has a crush
on her and is frequently close to her. However, her arrogant classmate
Jessica Bard (Catherine Reitman) gets the position and Ryden is forced
to return home in the suburb to live with her optimistic father Walter
(Michael Keaton) that wants to do everything by himself; her careful
mother Carmella (Jane Lynch) that administrates the the short resources
of her family; her eccentric grandmother Maureen (Carol Burnett); and
her weird little brother Hunter (Bobby Coleman) that wishes to race in
a boxcar derby. Ryden unsuccessfully seeks a job position and feels
frustrated but is emotionally supported by Adam. When Walter
accidentally runs over the cat of his next-door neighbor David Santiago
(Rodrigo Santoro) with Ryden's car, they visit him to give their
sympathies. Ryden feels attracted by the handsome Brazilian and has a
brief affair with him, forgetting Adam that decides to move to New York
to study in the law school of Columbia. Meanwhile Ryden is invited to
join Happerman & Browning and she discovers that feelings cannot be
planned. 

"Post Grad" is one of those movies that professional movie critics hate
and obviously will never be awarded or nominated or even participate in
festivals. The low IMDb User Rating (5.1/10 with 2,128 votes) is an
evidence of the foregoing statement. However, this romantic comedy is
an enjoyable family entertainment recommended for a Saturday or Sunday
afternoon. The delightful film is funny and very pleasant, with a good
message. Alexis Bledel, from "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants",
is one of the most beautiful actresses of the younger generation and
the role of Ryden Malby seems to be tailored for her. The Brazilian
Rodrigo Santoro and the unknown Zach Gilford have good participation as
romantic pairs of Alexis Bledel. The veterans Michael Keaton, Jane
Lynch and Carol Burnett have an effective participation composing a
very weird suburban family. The shameful DVD released in Brazil by Fox
do Brasil does not have subtitles in Portuguese. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Recém Formada  E Agora?" ("Just Graduated  And
Now?")
<|_=00=_|>
One would expect that an actress such as Alexis Blendel would have
something known as experience by now. Tragically that is not the case.
Despite her sparkling eyes there is simply nothing from her side that
could sustain this comedy. The only thing about her is her cuteness but
that doesn't count as talent. Jane Lynch, Carol Burnett and Michael
Keaton make this movie bearable. Sadly they don't get enough screen
time in this flick. Other actors seem underpaid and thus unmotivated.
Rodrigo Santoro plays some Hollywood Latino douche who, out of nowhere,
comes up with a quote that turns the whole movie around. If you've seen
the trailer, you've seen it all. Watch it if you're really bored or if
you got a crush on Alexis Blendel - avoid if not. You have been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very bland teen type of film. It's about a girl, Ryden, whom
graduates near the top of her college class. She thinks she has
everything planned out with a job and an apartment. But finding a job
is much harder than she imagined. So, she moves back in with her
parents, whom really aren't interesting characters. Here the movie
could have been done better, if the parents were funny, but they
weren't. So she goes to a lot of job interviews, once again, not really
that interesting. Then there is the love interest, Adam, a guy she has
known for years whom has always liked her but she considered him a
friend till now. When he leaves, she realizes she liked him too so sets
out on a new path in life at the end.

FINAL VERDICT: This was like a dull teen movie and it wasn't even
supposed to be a comedy. Not worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Many of us can relate to the Ryden character in 'Post Grad'. Having
been in a similar situation and knowing that Alexis Bledel would lead
the movie, I decided to watch it. The film starts off well with an
overenthusiastic, overconfident and naive Ryden going to her interview
and then being 'bumped off' by an arch rival. The comedy works very
well (except for the Michael Keaton belt lock sequence which appears
like forced humour) but otherwise 'Post Grad' moves at a very slow
pace. I think Vicky could have added more comedy and gone more in depth
with Ryden's struggle. Alexis Bledel is very good as Ryden Malby and I
hope she gets more fine roles in great movies in the future. Michael
Keaton is a little over the top but it was good to see him after a long
time. Jane Lynch is poorly underused. Carol Burnett is hilarious. It
was only much later that I found out that Adam wasn't played by Gabriel
Mann but by an actor named Zach Gilford (who is a splitting image).
Overall, it's not too bad for a one time watch but it could have been
way more fun.
