
I stumbled upon this movie accidentally and haven't even heard of this
movie until the night of watching it. All I can say is WOW!!! This is
such a great movie. Andy Garcia performance is amazing.

This movie is not a Hollywood mainstream. In a way, its similar to
Little Miss Sunshine: dysfunctional family, every character is a
weirdo, Even grandpa from Little Miss sunshine is in this movie, but
its different. Similarly to Little Miss Sunshine, its a low budget
independent film. If you didn't like Little Miss Sunshine, and you
don't like that genre in general, you probably won't like this movie. 

Personally, I loved this movie and in my list, it is in the top 10 of
this movies I've seen this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, you maybe won't believe that this movie really IS brilliant if
you are only 30 minutes or so in. At least I didn't.

I actually got bored by the multiple - but at first not very promising
- story lines going on. But I like Andy Garcia, I like Emily Mortimer
and after all it had a very high rating here.

It got better though, and in the last 30 minutes or so, when everything
started coming together, I watched almost with my mouth open and
sometimes I had to laugh really hard.

And while Andy Garcia is a pretty good actor in general ... BOY is he
good in this one !! I predict an Oscar nomination for him this year, no
I am SURE he will get nominated for this role!

So, all I am saying is: Just give it a chance and sit through it. You
won't regret it and you will end up LOVING it !!!
<|_=00=_|>
Really, it is a movie that shouldn't be missed, absolutely pleasing. I
wasn't very sure of the movie in the beginning , I saw it with all my
family and, man, we laughed and enjoyed this comedy more than expected.
Now i am recommending it to all my friends and also to ones who read
these lines, you won't regret. I cannot understand why this movie isn't
presented to the public like other far worse movies, where you expect a
lot seeing the trailer and get nothing. This is completely the
opposite, you start from zero and go very high. I like the characters,
i like the intrigue, everything, and i am not a big fan of Andy Garcia.

A big GO FOR IT, don't think twice !
<|_=00=_|>
This movie "City Island" will take any city by storm! Writer-Director
Raymond De Fellita's engaging & entertainment gem has been transported
to my fantastical island of quality film-fare. Cuban-American thespian
icon Andy Garcia stars as Vince Rizzo, a New York prison guard (I mean
correctional officer) who resides in a New York suburban island called
see movie title. Vince has always aspired to be an actor but he has
never told his family of his "wanna-be" thespian affairs. Julianna
Margulies plays Vincent's "good wife" (just had to do it, it was too
good) Joyce; in reality Joyce is not too good and has smoking passions
of her own, but nevertheless she is the fervent mother of the Rizzo
clan. Ezra Miller plays Vince Jr., the Rizzo teenage kid that has some
hefty passions of his own that are unknown to his family. Dominik
Garcia-Lorido, Andy's real-life daughter, plays daughter Vivian; a
college student whose financial tuition difficulties have stripped her
of all her money so she decides to be a stripper, of course not
providing that naked truth to her family. And then we get a strait man
enter the picture, that would be in the form of Steven Strait who
portrays Tony Nardella, a convict prisoner who Vince takes under his
wing to the Rizzo residence because of a deep secret; to be strait with
you he just might be Vince's lovechild. Emily Mortimer plays Molly, a
lonely acting student who Vince befriends. And we even get another Alan
Arkin sighting in a dysfunctional family film, which is always a
welcome. Arkin plays Vince & Molly's acting teacher. All this Rizzo
secret madness is wrapped up into a convoluted, but yet, engaging
narrative that you will most certainly adore. All the performances are
first-rate! But the acting-god father of the group is definitely
highlighted by Andy Garcia's charismatic & whimsical starring
performance as Vince Rizzo. He belongs in Oscar Island at next year's
Academy Awards with a Best Actor nomination. Marguiles was marvelous as
Joyce, and Strait was straight as an arrow with his thespian work as
Tony. And of course, much felicidades goes out to Writer-Director
Raymond De Fellita for his comedic-delicious functional script on a
dysfunctional New York family and his functional direction of the
side-splitting narrative. So my friends, grab on to your cinematic
passport and get on that pleasurable movie cruise to "City Island".
***** Excellent
<|_=00=_|>
Plotted somewhat like a farce but as emotionally resonate as the best
comedy-dramas, City Island is most aptly described, simply and
literally, as wonderful. The cast is unfailingly strong with producer
Andy Garcia giving himself the meatiest role  to great effect. A few
too many "dems" and "dose" may lace his New York accent but he is
funny, sincere, frustrated and perseverant in a wide panoply of scenes
with actors who have either been TV-type cast (Juliana Margulies),
indie-film type cast (Emily Mortimer) or not yet had a real chance to
really strut their stuff (Steven Straight, Dominik Garcia-Lorido, and a
promising Ezra Miller). Alan Arkin pops in with his usual world-weary
Weltanshauung but it plays wonderfully here.

Still, you can see good acting in a number of films (though not an
ensemble as strong as this). What separates City Island from the
comedy-drama mainland is a story that is both fantastical and yet
credible. The premise of what befalls this particular prison guard is a
little over-the-top, as are the nonstop (funny) family feuds, but it
all feels real. The story detours into little tide pools of drama for
each character and here, too, every subplot provides laughs  and it
all comes together in a tsunami of comedy at the end, true to its
farcical roots. But there's a surprisingly strong current of emotion
too in a finale that argues secrets are probably best revealed when you
feel least safe in doing so.

The best film I've seen to date this year.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a terrific film, a testament to the brilliance of
actor/producer Andy Garcia. It's got it all -- quirky but lovable
characters and a great plot with twists reminiscent of the comedies of
Oscar Wilde (very clearly updated, of course). As far-fetched as it
might seem, it rings true from start to finish. Can't wait for more
from writer/director Raymond De Felitta. It's smart, touching,
hysterical, and trumps just about everything I've seen in months. Like
everyone else, I don't know why this is running under the radar. Andy
Garcia plays his role like a fine violin -- and he's totally
captivating. All the actors deliver, and every moment is a treat. I
don't know when or if it will get a wide release, but if you get the
chance, see it while you can.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wonder why is this movie so less known,i mean only 800 odd
votes!thats bizarre,this is a brilliant movie.well directed and with
some superb performances.especially from Andy Garcia.Im an Asian so it
is understandable that most film goers are unaware of this movie as
this brand of movies are less popular here and they do not get that
much publicity,but what about other places?is it because perhaps it was
poorly marketed?Because i strongly feel this movie deserves a much
lager audience base.Characters are well portrayed and the story
develops consistently towards an absolutely brilliant and worth
anticipated climax.This is not what you can call a perfect example of a
typical Hollywood brand of movie,it is different but it is
refreshing,and is it certainly worth multiple viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. I am always amazed, amused and
somewhat satisfied when a writer gathers up multiple stereotypes,
massages the conflict and dialogue, and emerges with a script that
captures interest and holds attention. Writer/director Raymond De
Felitta has done just that with working class Italian New Yorkers.

All story lines revolve around the secrets each of the family members
keep from the others. Sure, we all understand that two-way
communication and trust create a much stronger and healthier family,
but sometimes, it's just not that simple.

Andy Garcia plays the head of this secretive bunch and he sets the
stage with two whoppers. The first is his slinking off to acting
classes while chasing his lifelong dream of becoming an actor - like
his inspiration, Marlon Brando. To cover this one up, he tells his wife
(Julianna Margulies) that he is off to another poker game, unaware that
she interprets this as code for his having an affair.

They have a daughter (Dominik Garcia-Lorido) who has lost her college
scholarship and is saving money to re-enroll by working (secretly) as a
stripper. Their odd ball son (Ezra Miller), who believes he is too
smart to attend classes, develops an online fetish habit that ends up
VERY close to home.

In most films, this would be plenty of ammunition to create havoc among
the players. Not here. Garcia's second, and much larger secret, throws
this dysfunctional family into a tailspin - and he somehow is the last
to realize. Emily Mortimer, Steven Strait and Alan Arkin all provide
strong support to the story and this "family".

Mr. De Felitta explored some of these family topics in "The Thing About
My Folks", but here he is working with his own script. The balance
between comedy, conflict and insight is actually very good; though, the
New Yorker habit of loud mealtime conversation is somewhat
discomforting for this southern boy. Still, I have nothing but positive
things to say about how the stereotypes end up providing
self-realization to each of the characters, and even more importantly,
an understanding of what their family really is. Good stuff here.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a rare, exhilarating experience to see a film and not find a
single false note within. This is one of the most well written,
perfectly acted, impeccably directed movies I have seen in a long, long
while. It has the feeling of comforting familiarity, and yet is
surprising at EVERY moment, taking your expectations and turning them
in the most interesting and unique ways. As the basis for the story has
the potential to be unbelievable and over the top, it could have been a
disaster in the wrong hands, but very early on you find yourself
feeling so 'happy' with what transpires, that you are completely drawn
in by the brilliance that's displayed. Achingly funny, and sweet
without being cloyingly sentimental, it is an amazing piece of work. I
implore you to see it, and tell your friends about it. This is a movie
that deserves a wide audience. It is classified as 'quirky', which it
most certainly is, but COMPLETELY accessible. In creating the specific
world of 'City Island', Raymond De Felitta has given us a touchstone of
universal emotions. Secrets, lies, mis-communication, love, and most of
all, family. I URGE you to see this film. It is truly special.
<|_=00=_|>
Like a number of smaller films this year such as The Kids are All
Right, Please Give, Winter's Bone and the first two films of the
Millennium Trilogy, City Island is one of this years sleeper indie hits
and it is easy to see why. Out on DVD today, it is one of the best
movies of the year.

In many ways, City Island is a traditional dysfunctional family
melodrama, and it revels in that mold. What elevates this dark comedy
to something compelling and infinitely memorable are the universally
strong performances, confident direction and most importantly -- one of
the best scripts in years. Oddly, I found the same response to a very
different film; Frost/Nixon. Boasting the same underlying strengths by
way of actors and writing, both are perplexingly entertaining for
movies with such a humble story arc and could easily be dismissed as
pompous Oscar bait. This is far from the truth.

By way of an introductory voice-over narration we meet the Rizzo family
who reside on City Island, a tiny island community in the Bronx. The
residents of this picturesque hidden jewel consist of two groups,
"mussel suckers" who are immigrants to the island and "clam diggers,"
who like the Rizzos, have resided there for generations. Vince Rizzo
(Andy Garcia) is a prison guard but secretly aspires to become an
actor, a masquerade so embarrassing to him it leads his wife Joyce
(Julianna Margulies) to believe he is having an affair. Their son Vince
Jr. has a secret fetish for more portly woman and their daughter Vivian
is secretly working as a stripper to pay for school. To top things off,
Vince has come across a paroled prisoner who just so happens to be his
son Tony who he had abandoned during a relationship decades prior.

Basing your opinion on that description alone, it would be very easy to
dismiss City Island as an outlandish comedy of errors, but the
execution is so genuine and deliberate it borders on genius. As
tensions escalate after Vince brings Tony home with him (under false
pretences) everyone's secrets collide in a climax that ranks among my
favorite finales of all time, drama, comedy, horror film or otherwise.
As the writing behind the big finish shines through, so does the
believable mix of fluctuating emotions exhibited by the cast. Words do
not do this scene justice, so I urge you to simply experience it
yourself.

Each principle member of the cast gives what I would call career-high
performances, especially Andy Garcia who anchors the story as
everything dissolves around him. He is hilariously deadpan at one
moment and tender at the next, which sets off Margulies' fiery Joyce to
even more palatable effect. Steven Straight as Vice's long-lost son is
perfectly nuanced as an ex-con who is as puzzled by his new lodgings
and the kindness of a supposed stranger as he is disenchanted with
society. Emily Mortimer gets a great side role as a colleague of
Vince's in his secret acting class; a relationship that stays
refreshingly plutonic. 

Every member of the Rizzo family is given enough screen time to become
fully realized individuals but without taking so much attention away
from another to degrade them to a caricature. Vince Jr. is sarcastic
and annoying most of the time and in a lesser film he would have been
overused and could have easily sunk the film. But writer/director
Raymond De Felitta plays to each characters strengths and balances
their interplay faultlessly.

Above all else, City Island is a film about secrets and how when kept
bottled up can shred even the strongest of relationships but when
shared can be a uniting factor. This theme seems fitting as this little
treasure is the best kept secret of the year.
