
I'm generally a fan of comedies, and tend to prefer intelligent
comedies to most dramas. Lay The Favorite wasn't funny, it wasn't
entertaining and it felt so scattered that it was hard to follow any of
the character's motivations. This felt like one of those movies where
they just wanted to have a bunch of named stars so they could have fun
on set. If the movie was allowed to be slightly slower or if they
allowed the movie to be slightly longer it might have been able to gain
footing but in it's current state by the time you've figured out why
someone is doing something they're already four moves ahead of that. If
you just want to see southern women depicted as ditsy sex objects and
older men that wear Hawaiian shirts and gamble then this movie is for
you.
<|_=00=_|>
Until a friend suggested going to see this movie, I hadn't even heard
of it, and other than what I gathered from skimming the synopsis in the
cinema-foyer listings-leaflet -it seemed to be some kind of comedy, and
starred Bruce Willis as a gambler-, I wasn't sure what it was about.

And now, after sitting through all ninety-four incoherent, enervating
minutes of it, I'm still not sure. One of my friends, who is usually
uncritical and easily entertained, said he thought that "The Tree of
Life" made more sense than this film.

Unlike Terrence Malick's "metaphysical masterpiece" however, there is
no confusion here as to what the subject matter is (it's the life of
professional gamblers), what is confusing is how that subject matter is
presented, and how the narrative is (or isn't) constructed around it.
For example, what was the intended tone of the movie, what was the
film-maker trying to convey? Was it supposed to be amusing?
entertaining? or moving? were we supposed to be excited, or to feel
intellectually stimulated? Who knows. My main emotional reaction to the
film was a kind of repulsion, because I felt like I was being
exploited, like the film was insulting my intelligence and my basic
humanity. Like I might expect to feel if I'd been suckered into
spending an evening feeding coins to a slot machine.

The first 10 minutes were slightly amusing to be fair, but after that
that it just descends into complete mind-numbing absurdity. You might
think Vince Vaughn would offer some comic-relief but, for the brief
appearances he makes, he's just going through the motions (though it's
still the most convincing and consistent performance of the movie). 

There was no tension, or intrigue, at all, for the first seventy
minutes. I mean nothing seems to really matter to any of the
characters, they behave so unrealistically, and incoherently. And when
things finally seem to get real and there is some adversity for the
characters to face, you just don't care because you can't feel sympathy
for such pantomime puppets as these. 

They could have gone more into the details, the mechanics, of the
gambling operation, that might have been interesting, but they thought
it would be better to pad the story out with completely vapid
romantic-interest scenes.

Maybe, with the attraction of Willis, Zeta-Jones, Vaughn, (and Rebecca
Hall's legs), it was thought that such things as humour, narrative
direction, consistency and pacing, character development, etc., were
unnecessary. 

After seeing the movie, I learned that it was adapted from a book, that
at least goes some way towards explaining why there were so many
undeveloped, seemingly irrelevant details, obviously included for the
sake of those that have read it. For example, Holly (Laura Pripon's
character) keeps warning Beth that she is becoming "one of us", in the
book there might be context for this but when you watch the film you're
just like "what is this I don't even...."

But, even for those that have read the book, maybe more-so, this film
will only bemuse and bewilder. While I'm informed the book was written
in a 'picaresque' -and no doubt droll (not to mention self-deprecating)
style-, on screen, without the benefit of a narrator, this translates
into characters, like Beth, who starts off as some kind of
cartoon-airhead-bimbo-stripper, sunbathing with baby-oil on her back,
ending up as an extraordinarily articulate, mathematical genius, who
goes on to become a writer... Rebecca Hall was a bad choice.

And another thing, I couldn't help feeling that this film was
not-too-subtly trying to indoctrinate me. Maybe I'm just paranoid but,
beyond just the obvious product placements (nice Mercedes being driven
by Bruce Willis' Mr. Nice character), it's like they're glamorizing the
lifestyle, and completely glossing over any moral issues, and Beth just
follows the money from Las Vegas to New York to Cura√ßao -are we
supposed to admire that, to forget about community, and meaningful
relationships, just go where the money is and keep working and
consuming?-.

Whatever, I've wasted enough time on this drivel already, please heed
my warning and don't waste yours.
<|_=00=_|>
Rebecca Hall does an excellent job as a naive bookie in Lay. The other
actors, Bruce Willis, Catherine Zeta Jones, and Vince Vaughn are great
in their supporting roles, but.... This movie was poorly written: the
jokes fall flat, the script doesn't develop enough so that the audience
can care about the characters, the gambling is explained only enough so
that gamblers can understand what the actors are doing and there is
very little plot action that's not inside an office looking at TV
screens with sports games on them. Stephen Frears, the director, has
done some major work such as "the Queen," and "High Fidelity," and i
would think he was brought in to save this, but it's shot so plainly,
like a made for TV movie. I get the feeling that this was filmed in a
couple weeks and everyone involved wanted to get it over with as
quickly as possible. I give it 3 out of 10 for Rebecca Hall's efforts
and the fact that she comes off as incredibly sexy, but other then
that, it's totally forgettable.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Just wow. Easily one of the worst films (if you can really call it
a film) I have ever seen. I spent the first half of the movie waiting
for a punchline that never came. I thought maybe it was doing some kind
of retro, pretend to be a B movie thing that would have some good
laughs over how ironically lame it was. Nope. It really just is a B
movie (and a terrible one at that) that somehow managed to trick big
stars into it. I kept gasping in disbelief that the movie really could
be that bad and still have big names. I thought maybe it was some lost
movie that they decided to release now for some reason, but even that
didn't make sense because even Bruce Willis' first movies were leagues
better. 

When I saw the cast list, I thought this would have to be at least
okay. I mean it has B. Willis, C. Zeta-Jones, V. Vaughn, J. Jackson,
and L. Prepon. All well know actors, and usually in decent films. I
still can't believe that every one of these actors actually decided to
do this film. It is just mind-blowing. This is easily the worst film of
all of their careers, and the worst acting any of them has ever done.
Even these stars couldn't overcome the script and make themselves look
like good actors. If you were only listening and not paying much
attention you wouldn't even know it was them, seriously. Then you would
look up half way through the movie and it would blow your mind that it
was these stars you were listening to, bumbling through their terribly
lines. 

Nothing about this movie was accurate or realistic at all. The script
is terrible, the acting is terrible, and it looks like it was filmed by
amateurs using cameras they bought from Futureshop. How did this movie
possibly cost 20 million? I kid you not, Kevin Smith's "Clerks" looks
like it has higher production value than this. No real plot either. No
twists, no nothing. There is not one single interesting thing in this
movie. I was only able to get through it so I could verify that it was
bad all the way through. It is one of those movies you keep watching
only because you just can't believe it is THAT bad. 

The main character is played by Rebecca Hall (a complete unknown), and
my god, what an atrocious acting job. Get ready for one of the worst I-
can't-believe-they-put-this-person-in-a-movie performances you have
ever seen. I feel bad for the girl working with such a poor script
(even Willis appeared to be a bad actor in this), but man, I would be
terribly surprised if she ever gets an acting job again, unless it is
just for sex appeal.

I just can't emphasize how terrible this was. Just astonishingly bad.
You won't believe your eyes. The only remotely redeeming quality is
that Laura Prepon's breasts make an appearance, and I say this only
jokingly. It certainly won't do anything for her career to get naked in
this mess of a film.

The movie "The Room" is actually better than this, and it is widely
regarded as the worst movie ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
"Lay the Favorite" has many dissenters, most complaining that it's
completely unbelievable. It's true, it is. Beth (Rebecca Hall) is a
ditzy bimbo who quits her job as a stripper and moves to Las Vegas to
become a cocktail waitress. A great idea! Instead, as soon as she
arrives, she gets a very lucrative job as a sports bettor for a bookie
who isn't a bookie since bookmaking is illegal. She's a genius with
numbers and words.

She's also capable of getting guys to do whatever they think she wants.
They need to do the thinking since she's too dumb to even know what she
wants. The kicker to this story of an over-sexed, ditzy bimbo, numbers
genius, sports-betting millionaire, is that it's a true story. I
decided to watch the YouTube video of the real Beth Raymer reading from
her memoir which this film is based on to see if Hall accurately
captured her varying characteristics. And she did. She does the hair
twirl and the dumb girl giggle as she describes the kings of sports
gambling giving her job after job after job.

I'm one of the few who liked Rebecca Hall in this. So different from
her usual indie fare. She has to ooze sex and play beautiful even
though she has never really been described that way before. But in
order to like this movie at all, you need to care about this floozy.
Other than her ridiculous free ride through life, nothing really
interesting happens to her. 

Her first job in Vegas is with Dink (Bruce Willis) who owns Dink Inc.
She loves him, he loves her ¬Ö mind? Yeah, right. Apparently he does. So
when she gets herself in trouble along with a nice, smart successful
guy (Joshua Jackson) who doesn't seem to mind throwing his life away
for her, he comes to the rescue. 

Personally, I found Hall's sexy naivet√© and Willis' extreme gambling
entertaining enough to keep watching. However, the movie doesn't seem
to play the unfortunate reality that this is a true story for laughs.
When there's a story too unbelievable to be true then you should be
making fun of everybody who allowed it to occur, instead the film just
wanted the audience to go along for a fun ride. It is somewhat fun,
it's also very unbelievable, and ultimately, pretty stupid.

Who Might Like This: Anybody who likes seeing ditzy bimbos succeed in
life; people who like watching unbelievably true stories; fans of
Rebecca Hall.
<|_=00=_|>
Beth (Rebecca Hall), having drifted into private dancing (home visits
leading to small scale prostitution) decides to leave small-town
Florida and head for Las Vegas, where a more fulfilling life as a
cocktail waitress beckons. Alas, cocktail waitressing in Vegas is a
difficult nut to crack, and beth ends up working for Dink (Bruce Wilis)
who makes his living from his sports gambling company. What follows is
the story of Beth's progress, and her involvement with Dink, his wife
Tulip (Catherine Zeta-Jones), journalist Jeremy (Joshua Jackson),
bookmaker Rosie (Vince Vaughan) and gambler Dave (John Carroll Lynch).

The need to classify films is sometimes a problem, and this is the case
here. The closing titles tell us that Beth married Jeremy, took a
degree and became a writer: the film is based on her personal memoir
and, like real life, is episodic and unstructured. So, while it is
often amusing, it is not a comedy, while it is sometimes dramatic it is
not a drama and, in fact, it isn't really a story at all, it is simply
a recollection of a period in her life.

My main criticism is that as someone who is not a sports fan and
doesn't bet, big chunks of this movie were as opaque to me as a movie
with big chunks set on the floor of a stock exchange would have been. I
understand that this is inevitable, but it was something of a problem.

And this is a shame, because the film otherwise kept me occupied in a
very agreeable manner. Rebecca Hall is a delight. Having played serious
characters previously, with a tendency towards the plain, Beth is a
sunny, engaging, leggy, sexy pleasure, but all the characters are quite
nice people (which, frankly, I find unlikely, but that didn't matter: I
enjoyed the film anyway. And it was a pleasure to see Vince Vaughan
playing a different character.
<|_=00=_|>
(11%) A limp waste of both man's and the world's resources who's
cinematic release came and quickly vanished away before the glue that
stuck the lame and cheap looking advertising posters had even properly
dried. This is one of those films that starts OK with hope of things
yet to come, but any hope here is badly misplaced. Rebecca Hall plays a
ditzy, quite annoying stripper who becomes a Las Vegas high rolling pro
gambler within the blink of an eye utilising her Rain man style
abilities that are mentioned once and never spoken of ever again. It
really is amazing how easy it is to get a well paying job in this
movie, so much so that in this universe there's no such thing as
poverty and everyone retires at 22. Bruce Willis plays the boss of a
group of gambling speculators, and even he managers to annoy with his
character who doesn't seem to accept that betting on anything is
massively risky and requires nothing more than blind luck to succeed.
While Catherine Zeta-Jones and Joshua Jackson are hardly featured and
play mostly pointless roles anyway. Overall this managers to be both
mundane, dry, and strait-laced, yet still a bit of a mess.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Stephen Frears and star Bruce Willis seem to demonstrate an
uncanny gift for inconsistency. Frears' work ranges from the sublime
(Dangerous Liaisons, My Beautiful Launderette, The Grifters) to the
ridiculous (Accidental Hero, Mary Reilly). Likewise, Willis frequently
lurches from the terrific to the terrible ¬ñ every Die Hard is cancelled
out by a Hudson Hawk; every Pulp Fiction spawns a Color Of Night. Given
the involvement of Frears and Willis, one would be right to anticipate
only two possible outcomes for Lay The Favorite ¬ñ it's either going to
be very good or very bad. Sadly, in this case the film falls into the
very bad category. It can't just be chalked down as another dud in the
Bruce Willis canon either ¬ñ a number of other good actors sink with
this ship, including Catherine Zeta-Jones, Joshua Jackson and Vince
Vaughn.

Tallahassee lap-dancer Beth Raymer (Rebecca Hall) wants to change her
life so, with the blessing of her father (Corbin Bernsen), she heads
off to Las Vegas to seek work as a cocktail waitress. Her American
dream doesn't turn out quite the way she planned, and pretty soon Beth
finds herself desperate for whatever employment she can find (as long
as it doesn't involve getting naked). Enter professional gambler Dink
Heimowitz (Bruce Willis). Dink bets on anything and everything, placing
tens of thousands of dollars per day on various sporting outcomes. Such
is the extent of his gambling that he requires a team of lackeys to man
the phones in his office. After displaying an unexpected knack for
numbers, Beth is given the chance to work for Dink's organisation. She
is quickly seduced by this lifestyle of high risk and instant fortune.
The rest of the film traces Beth's adventure in the pro-gambling
profession. She falls in and out of love with Dink; has various run-ins
with Dink's savage-tongued wife Tulip (Catherine Zeta-Jones); falls for
a sensible and well-organised New York journalist named Jeremy (Joshua
Jackson); is fired and re-hired several times by Dink; and ultimately
ends up working for highly unscrupulous New York bookie Rosie (Vince
Vaughn), who puts her in charge of the Curacao limb of his illegal
gambling racket.

From a quick scan of the plot synopsis, there's no obvious reason for
the film to fail. It has a strong cast, an eventful storyline, and is
set in the fascinating world of pro-gambling. The components are
certainly in place for a good movie, so where does it all go so
horribly wrong? The biggest drawback is the character of Beth,
presented in the script as a totally brainless bimbo. Every now and
then she displays a moment of sudden ingenuity which rings completely
untrue. The entire story is about Beth (she IS the story, in effect)
yet is by far the most irritating character in it. Having said that,
none of the actors really seem to be firing on all cylinders. Willis
seems jaded, Vaughn merely rehashes his loud and brash comedy routine
for the umpteenth time, and Jackson gets a boring role and looks bored
playing it. Zeta-Jones has slightly more to get her teeth into as the
sharp-tongued rich bitch Tulip (some viewers might get a kick out of
hearing her screech the C- word at her long suffering husband), but
later in the film her character mellows out somewhat and quickly loses
her appeal as a result. It seems ironic that Zeta-Jones chose this of
all films to return to screen acting after a three year hiatus¬Ö can
this really be the best offer that came along? The incomprehensible
gambling jargon makes many scenes all but impossible to follow. Worse
still, the plot never builds to a dramatic conflict worth caring about.
Things just amble around meaninglessly for an hour and a half or so,
then the film ends. Overall, Lay The Favorite is a waste of time and
talent. The book upon which it is based (Lay The Favorite: A Memoir of
Gambling) by the real Beth Raymer is reportedly a rather fascinating
read. If that's the case, put your chips on the book¬Ö because the film
is an utter donkey.
<|_=00=_|>
Lay the Favorite stars Rebecca Hall as an ex-stripper and Bruce Willis
as an ageing Las Vegas bookie. But nothing comes good in the script. It
is as flat and the writing is noticeable. We can now see why the film
was not shown wide in America. The affection between Beth and Dink
feels a lot more genuine, with Willis delivering a finely tuned
performance. Hall bounces off him with comically goggle-eyed
expressions but she comes across more clumsy than needed. This film is
listed as a comedy and drama but it really is neither funny, nor it is
as dramatic as one should be for a sports betting film. It is also
utterly predictable, specifically its ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Why You Might Like It: There are plenty of notable faces (Bruce Willis,
Catherine Zeta-Jones, Vince Vaughn, Joshua Jackson) in the movie that
might attract some viewers to give it a shot. The truth is Rebecca Hall
does a real nice job in the lead role playing a naive and ditzy
stripper turned bookie, while the supporting cast are just okay for the
most part. It is based on a true story, so the plot is decent enough to
keep most viewers entertained. An okay watch for a slow afternoon or
evening.

Why You Might Not Like It: Again, the acting for the most part is
average and not anything special although the cast would suggest
otherwise. The movie is noticeably low budget in a number of spots,
which might be a bit of turn off for some. Unfortunately, this movie is
likely confusing for those who don't gamble and a joke for those who
are more familiar with gambling. With some better research into the
gambling side of things and a bigger budget, this could have been a
little bit better film.

Acting/Casting: 6* 

Directing/Cinematography/Technical: 5*

Plot/Characters: 5* 

Entertainment Value: 6* 

Total - 6+5+5+6 = 22/4 = 5.5*
