
A brilliant little film, economic in its resources and smart in its
complex editing. However, this is not destined to be a box office hit.
It is the kind of film that Soderbergh does once in a while in-between
pop flicks to avoid getting bored.

Sasha Grey delivers some good acting as an ambiguously shallow and
ambitious prostitute who tries to survive the post-Obama post-Crisis
world of depressed clients and worried boyfriend. Her relationship with
her costumers and other professionals who are part of the escort world
is built little by little in several out-of-order scenes. Most people
will find the movie's timeline confusing, but all you have to do is pay
attention to her wardrobe and everything will be fine.

I must also note the soundtrack, that makes use of very interesting
unknown music. I specially liked the street drummer.

The images are beautiful enough to make one think "well, not bad for a
movie shot on digital". Besides the old-school narrative (in the sense
that it belongs more to the Bergman era than to the "Wolverine III"
era) this movie looks and feels like the new kind of cinema that cheap
digital shooting offers. And I like the way it feels.

IN A NUTSHELL: For Sasha Grey and Soderbergh fans and people who
actually care about cinema language. If you like Soderbergh because of
"Ocean's Eleven", stay away.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie felt like it had potential. It's not often that films try to
take a serious look at the world of prostitution. This, however, was a
downright mess. It was a terribly contrived attempt at being being hip,
indie, and sexy and only managed to land the part that it was
independent. The script was AWFUL. The only thing any of these
characters ever spent any amount of time discussing with one another
was the economic crisis and the presidential elections and that's it,
quite literally. If I wanted to listen to more financial rhetoric I
would have turned on the news. What about exploring the effects the sex
trade has on personal relationships? Or the people involved? Look
elsewhere if you're interested in the humanity of these individuals
because none is displayed here... And sexy? Please. There is no
sensuality to this film and barely even sexuality, which is surprising
considering how the entire premise of the film is built around sex.
There is no sex and only one or two nude scenes that I can recall,
which has become pretty standard for practically any independent film
these days.

Sasha Grey is a downright disaster. There's a reason why she does porn
- she can't act! This girl maintains the same stone cold, dead-eyed
expression and tone throughout the ENTIRE film (save for ONE scene
where she laughs with a client). Apparently she only has two
expressions, bored and orgasm (referring to her adult films). In this
film we only see the first... For that matter, all of the characters
are one dimensional, flat, and boring.

I had to quite literally force myself to watch this garbage. Save your
time and money and skip over this dud.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, Sasha Grey, queen star of more than 80 porn films, is
ironically the only professional actor in the movie, playing a
character who is always acting. Grey was contacted through MySpace, but
she really pulled her part off, considering she works in adult films,
she plays the part really well, her performance is understated and
realistic.

Because the movie is set during the financial crisis of October 2008,
this film is also about people obsessed with money, the true nature of
the crisis, from Sasha to her clients.

Her clients talk about the economy more than just having sex with her.
Worried about losing their money, those highly blamed executives that
people anger in public life are human and vulnerable in their private
life, asking for counselling with an escort girl.

When she's alone in the midst of a relationship crisis just as bad as
the economical situation, we see that the economy really doesn't phase
her. She's recession proof, paid in cold hard cash and no matter how
bad things are, guys have needs. Soderbergh jumps around in the story
but ties it all together neatly.

The film looks great too, the cinematography is really modern,
realistic and with intimate camera movements. However I felt the script
was a bit fluffy in places, many of it was improvisation.

It will certainly be an eye opener for those who are unaware of the
daily business of an escort. Would have liked to have seen more
in-depth analysis of the characterâ€™s history/background. Who is she?
Where did she come from? What was her upbringing like? The movie
ignores these details which are usually important for a character
study.

8.5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
OK, somewhere between 1 and 5.. Look, I'm a fairly big Soderbergh fan,
Solaris - perfect!, Kafka (where can I buy this now!!), Sex Lies., The
Good German and etc.. But what the heck was this movie? I was waiting
during the entire movie for the "it's about to get interesting", it has
to get interesting because the acting sucks.. right?.. "it's just about
to get.. " nope. It never was interesting. And oh I had high hopes for
Sasha, not that I know who she is because I had to look her up on
Google. But because I love to root for the underdog - thinking just
maybe a porn star really could break into mainstream. Oh right, that
kinda sorta did happen once from that porn star from the 80's Traci
lords.

Despite how 'high brow' Sasha is supposed to be, she was anything but
barely interesting during the entire movie. I'm not sure if it was her
acting or the script. Hard to tell.

Seriously, this is bad indie at best. It was almost like it was trying
to be an indie film, but Sasha Grey didn't have really any interesting
lines, she just sat there with uninteresting (understatement)
responses. She did cry well, that was about the most challenging part -
again the script.

Too bad, I thought this was going to be good by reading those reviews
on the box (ah, suckered in by the reviews again!), 

I never write reviews about anything. I had to sign up for IMDb just to
write this. :) Other than this film, however, Soderbergh rocks, and
Sasha Grey probably could act if challenged. She is certainly
interesting to look at both in the screen charisma sense and in the
other sense. 

Well, it was only 5 bucks at BB and 2 hours of my time.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't normally write movie reviews, or even talk about movies in any
sort of detail, but after seeing this earlier tonight I feel absolutely
compelled to warn people about what they're about to see.

The movie revolves around the emotionally vapid and thoroughly
uninteresting escort, Christine, played by Sasha Grey. We don't really
know anything about her other than the fact that she believes in some
kind of pseudoscience that apparently *isn't* astrology (though it
holds that people's birthdays alone provide determinate information
about their personality...), and, well, that's she's an escort. She
also has a boyfriend, Chris, who works as a personal trainer and
reveals himself to be the most emotionally connected person in the
film. This isn't saying much. His acting is merely passable, and his
character is just above tolerable.

Anyway, we watch Christine go on date after date of painfully awkward
and forced conversation, and then we hear a voice-over reading of her
diary where we're told about the ensuing sexual encounter (or lack
thereof). 

Three encounters stand out:

One is the guy we are introduced to at the beginning of the film. He's
the least slovenly and most sensitive, but he ends up preferring the
service of another escort. Christine feels slightly rejected. That's
it. No more development there.

Another noteworthy (relatively speaking) encounter is between her and
some guy from L.A. with a wife and kids. He's in New York temporarily
on a job related task, and he ends up deciding to stay there for the
weekend so he can have some extra time with Christine. Christine is so
excited to spend the weekend with this man whose birth date is
indicative of compatibility that she essentially sabotages her
relationship with Chris. The guy rents her a car and tells her to meet
him at a hotel, but he has a change of heart after video chatting with
his kids. He bails, she's sad, and Chris apparently still stays with
her after the mishap.

Finally, there's a repulsive porn mogul or pimp of some sort who
essentially propositions Christine to service him in exchange for a
good review and some "career opportunities." It's implied he makes her
do some degrading things involving a Q-tip, but we don't really know
what or why. We just know that he sucks and writes a scathing review of
her. The review reads like a description of the movie with a few
genital details thrown in.... Christine, the review says, represents
the "nadir of passion," and is marked by a "flat affect." Perhaps this
movie is more reflexive than it aims to be.

There's not too much going on when the film is focused on Christine's
emotional pettiness or the creepiness of her clients. Every fifteen
minutes or so we are bombarded with the drunken fraternizing of what
seems to be Chris and four CEO types on an personal jet. They have
obnoxious and inarticulate exchanges about the economy (the typical
'Obama... money-out-of-my-pockets... where's it coming from?' type
stuff) and relationships. It's either this or boring snippets of
informal business meetings. The cinematography is tasteful at times,
but there are scenes striving for artfulness that just result in
frustrating angles and too many shadows. The cinematography doesn't
make or break this film movie, though. The awkward dialog, lack of
direction, and frigid characters are what kill it.

Sure, this movie's supposed to be rife with social commentary, but this
commentary doesn't go very far beyond the truism that the wealthy want
to stay wealthy, or that lots of people do bad things to get ahead. We
see that the financial worries of the elite are often marked by the
same half-baked fiscal libertarianism and vague economic metaphors of
your average small town Joe. Or maybe that wasn't his point. I don't
really know. I just know that we're subjected to about a total of
thirty minutes of muddled conversations about the economy that usually
conclude that investing in gold is your safest bet, and things are only
going downhill from here. The film ends *SPOILER ALERT* with a cheap
shot at the financial elite -- we get a caricatured "capitalist Jew"
telling Christine to vote for McCain right before he prematurely
ejaculates at her aloof and hesitant embrace. Deep stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
And don't get me wrong. I like those movies too: In the mood for love,
from WKW. Genius!

But here... nothing does really work. First of all: Sasha Grey - she
might be good at moaning and stuff, but as a real actress: she looks
bored out of her frickin mind the whole movie! And that was how i felt
the whole movie! Once again, not much happens in the movie, what would
be fine if you compensated it with character development, or beautiful
shots, or even some nice editing not to mention soundtrack. But nothing
of that is really there. Im a big fan of fragmented editing but it
doesn't work if you have no story to tell! Also the excessive comments
about elections and the economics moment in the movie, will just make
it look outdated in a few years. hell, i just watched it and felt it a
lil outdated.

there's no commercial appeal in this movie, and no art appeal either.
there were exactly 8 people in the theater besides me and my GF. And
none of them seemed very enthusiastic when the lights were on again.
<|_=00=_|>
Was it a masterpiece? No. Was it quality Soderbergh? Yes-but that's not
saying much (Full Frontal, anyone?). It made me think of Annie Hall and
Chasing Amy. Annie Hall for its
non-linear-yet-still-very-easy-to-follow narrative style (think of a
toned down Limey). Chasing Amy because...well, because Kevin Smith used
to always say that he tried to dispel misconceptions about
relationships and sexuality with that 'film.' Whether or not he
succeeded, I 'dunno'-but Soderbergh certainly has a lot more to say and
does so rather proficiently with this movie. The running time for this
think-piece is a blessed 77 minutes and strangely enough I could not
pause the cable box and step away (even though I needed a cigarette
since BEFORE the movie began). That's saying something. Decent date
flick? I'd say so--but only if you're with someone cerebral or a whore.
Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Although his aesthetic isn't quite as detached or suffused in jagged
poetry, I wonder if Steven Soderbergh may have been, if subconsciously,
channeling Jean-Luc Godard with his latest film The Girlfriend
Experience, specifically a film like Godard's My Life to Live. There
Godard dealt with a woman who has little money and so becomes a
prostitute, seen in chapter segments and with a style that had a basis
in a script but also in documentary intuition- meaning the actors could
do what they wanted, even if the director had to stay true to some kind
of form. With The Girlfriend Experience we get Soderbergh again working
in his "minor" work form, under the radar of the box-office (Oceans')
and controversy (Che). He casts a young porn actress (Sasha Grey) and
non-professionals (the actor playing Chris, the personal trainer and
boyfriend of Grey's character, is an actual personal trainer), and the
film's non-scripted-but-scripted style, and editing taking cues from
the Nouvelle Vague, is at the least never less than interesting.

If the film doesn't tell a story exactly, which will surely frustrate
some but not be a surprise to anyone who saw Schizopolis or Full
Frontal (for better and worse), it does convey time and place very
well, of a city where the upper class on edge from horrid economy and
we're told of the "companionship" of the call girl played by Grey like
in journal entries or sound bytes. If there is any structure it's
loosely based around a man sort of interviewing Grey at a restaurant,
her demeanor calm but elusive, politely answering some questions and
edging around others, and the action and dramatic tone wavers so much
from documentary and fiction that it's impossible to separate it. But
it's not really naturalism either, though it could be considered that.
This is in another way why it's akin to a Godard film: it's highly
stylized, maybe so much so that its intention is precisely to provoke
in its choices in a distanced frame or a device obscuring faces or even
faces out of focus in the foreground as they speak with the background
at a bar in focus.

The Girlfriend Experience is also a surprising, if not show-stopping or
breakthrough, showcase for Sasha Grey, who has a kind of dirty beauty
which she can hide away with her natural sophistication. Though it's
not part of the story, there was something that Soderbergh saw in Grey
from her porn film experience (it's a similar thing as say casting a
professor in Umberto D: he's not playing one, but you can sense the
life experience on the face and in the body expressions, the spirit),
and its hard to look away from her. Nor even for her personal trainer
boyfriend. At worst, it's got some acting that is sub-par, like a
rehearsal for a scene that still needs work before being shot but is
filmed as a final workshop. But at best we see this torn and
bewildering couple who are close but have that block of her "job"
sleeping with other men- and the character's proclivity to look for a
birthday as a sign of a connection- as something captivating. Even the
city, as filmed by Soderbergh as a place with looming buildings and
street musicians surrounding the well-to-do, is a character to speak
of.

But, as with Soderbergh's other "experiments", saying it's not for
everyone is an understatement to end all others. It's so polarizing you
can feel the icicles forming from the breath in the theater. Maybe it
was wise on his part to make this available on-demand from IFC, as it
is an absolutely wonderful thing to experience as a rental though not
really a "full-price" affair as it turned out to be at the Clearview
Chelsea in Manhattan. Some will flat out hate its consistent choice in
camera-work or its strong performances, while others may like it
immensely for its sense of truth and human nature. For me, it's
provocative just enough to do for 78 minutes starring a woman who is
given an opportunity to do something not sans clothes and legs raised.
She takes a hold and makes it interesting on a level I didn't expect:
the subdued. If Bresson were alive he might find a use for her.
<|_=00=_|>
What a disappointment. The film comes over as having had no script to
begin with. Everybody's chit-chatting along, the camera (manned by the
man himself - and one hears he tried to channel Antonioni - what's he
smoking) is so utterly boring, the frames so stilted, action so
terribly stagy - what actually is this movie. Not to mention the
'infamous' RED camera: the movie looked like it was shot with some
miniDV camera with all highlights totally blown and no depth to the
images. Mixed lighting is a mixed blessing, no matter what camera -
somebody please forward that to the 'cinematographer'. And then there's
'sound': I can see that there's not even a name assigned in the IMDb
credit's list. No wonder - I wouldn't put my name there. It seems for
Soderbergh it's enough to slap some wires onto the actors (but really
really deep under some layers of clothe to make it really sound
mumbly-jumbly) and voila, we've replaced the sound department. Only
question left is, who is coming up with money for productions like
that. Really really bad and completely uninspired 'product'.
<|_=00=_|>
Hmm, can we still call an all-digital movie a "film"?

The term "girlfriend experience" comes from escort advertisements,
where they offer not just "companionship" (ie, sex) but also things a
girlfriend would do -- hugs, kisses, conversation, dinner, etc. In
other words, they pretend they're not just there for the money.

Porn star Sasha Grey plays the part of a high-dollar escort named
Chelsea. High-dollar as in $2000 an hour. The movie follows her over
the span of a few days as she is chauffeured from "clients" to designer
clothes stores to upscale restaurants to her spacious downtown
apartment she shares with her personal trainer boyfriend (and yes, he
knows what she does). They both hustle up business in their own ways --
she tries to figure out how to get increased traffic to her web site;
he tries hawking his own line of workout clothes. 

What little drama there is comes when Chelsea sees one of her regular
clients with a "new girl" named Tara who everyone is talking about.
While normally very self confident, that moment of insecurity leads her
to make a few questionable decisions, including seeing a sleazy escort
review website operator (played by movie critic Glenn Kenny). The
disastrous review is read in a hilarious voice-over by Kenny, sounding
like the pompous comic shop owner from The Simpsons.

If you've seen a lot of Soderbergh's movies, especially his smaller
projects, you have a good idea what to expect going into it. It's a
"slice of life" style movie, with just the barest outlines of a plot;
even much of the dialog is probably improvised. The scenes are
presented out of order (much like The Limey), but it's not too
confusing if you don't obsess about it. It seems like nearly every shot
is made with a telephoto lens; you feel very distant from the events,
both physically and emotionally. But the cinematography is quite
beautiful. I've read that only a few scenes used additional lighting,
everything else was done with available light. Thank you digital!

Grey is actually quite good in the movie. While mostly acting very
reserved and in control (as you would probably expect of a woman in her
line of work), she can turn on the charm when she needs to, showing a
crooked, sly smile. To me, the most interesting part of the film was
her lunch with a journalist (played by real life prostitution expose
writer Marc Jacobson) who keeps chipping away at her emotional armor.
She opens the door to him just a little, then shuts it closed when the
questions become too personal. 

This is a quiet film, yet I found it compelling. While there is little
in the way of plot, you do keep wondering what's going to happen next.
