
So when I first saw the trailer for Obsessed, I have to admit I was
curious to see this, even though the "fatal attraction" story has been
used five million times before, it's always interesting to see what the
new fresh writer is going to do with it. Obsessed could have been so
much more and offered a lot to the table but instead turned out to be a
Lifetime movie of the week. There are so many problems with this movie,
it's not even funny... oh, wait actually it was, which I'll explain in
a minute. But trust me when I say that this movie had me laughing so
hard. Now, I don't want to sound strange or wrong, I'm a white woman
and even I found this movie not only to be sexist, but racist as well.
We have a black family who actually are very successful, well bred,
beautiful, smart and nice people, but somehow Beyonce turns ghetto in
the end. This movie needs so much work, it's honestly ridicules, let me
tell you about the story before I tell you all that's wrong with it.

Derek Charles is the Executive Vice President of Gage Bendix and has
resulted in a recent promotion. He is happily married to his wife,
Sharon, with a son, Kyle. However, when a new temp, Lisa begins to
flirt with him. Lisa eventually attempts to seduce him, but he
repeatedly rejects her advances. Lisa becomes obsessed and begins to
manipulate Derek and Sharon's relationship, eventually becoming
violent. Lisa fakes a suicide in Derek's hotel room while he is on a
business trip. Meanwhile, Detective Reese interrogates Lisa, who lies
about her relationship with Derek. While Derek and Sharon are out, Lisa
goes to their home and convinces the babysitter to let her in,
eventually escaping with Kyle while the babysitter is distracted. Derek
goes to the car, intending to pursue Lisa, and finds Kyle in the
backseat with lipstick from Lisa on his forehead. They set up a home
alarm system, but at this point nothing is going to stop Lisa from
getting what she wants.

This is one of the worst movies of the year; why? I never really found
Ali Larter to be that threatening, everything happened so fast with her
obsession, I didn't get her motive or history on why she might possibly
be obsessed with this man. Idris Elba who plays the husband, Derek, is
completely whipped. Now granted I know they were trying to make him
into a nice husband, but did they go far or what? This man sent flowers
to his wife every week, isn't allowed to go to a basketball game with a
friend, is not allowed to have female assistants, pretty much hide in
the corner at the company Christmas party so his wife won't jump on him
at home. Beyonce Knowles, who plays his wife, Sharon, I had no sympathy
for her character what-so-ever. This woman has major jealousy issues
and we never know why, she mentions that he once was a player up till
he met her, but it's never indicated that he ever cheated on her, so
why in the heck is she so incredibly jealous? Also when she finds out
that Lisa attempted suicide in Derek's bed, she won't even hear his
side of the story, not only that, the house he paid for, she throws him
out for THREE MONTHS! God, I want know what happens to him if he
doesn't do the dishes, does he have to sleep in the back yard? I have
to talk about the ending, I'm sorry, so if I haven't already spoiled
the movie enough don't read on.

The ending: we go from the story being about Derek and this crazy woman
who has insane fantasies about them having an affair... stepping in the
right direction. But then all of a sudden, Lisa breaks into their home
and lays herself in their bed and Sharon, the wife, catches her,
instead of being rational and calling the police, it goes into "it's
all about Beyonce" mode and she's shouting out one liners just to
please the audience. The girls take the ultimate beating and somehow
are still able to land on their feet, for God's sake they have 105 lb.
Ali Larter swinging a two by four at Beyonce! Then after Sharon kills
Lisa, she walks out of the house all bloody and the detective and
husband come, as he holds her we pause on Beyonce's face while her song
is playing... hmm, subtle on the promotion there, she's a secondary
character for goodness's sake! Also one other thing I have to spoil is
that Lisa puts a roofie in Derek's drink and seduces him in some way...
what was the purpose of this scene? It never comes up again or had any
purpose, if it's supposed to be threatening, not so much. The detective
was also a stupid addition to the story, she is the most incompetent
detective ever. Just everything about this movie didn't work, pointless
characters, no backrounds, no thrills, chills or suspense, save your
money.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
A friend had free movie passes to see this movie--and on my birthday,
of all days.

That is two hours of my life that I will never get back.

The movie is a remix of Fatal Attraction, but the plot is nowhere near
as edgy and suspenseful. As for the acting...I never expected much of
Beyonce in the first place (because she can't act, nor can she speak
very well), but I was so disappointed in Idris Elba's performance. A
friend remarked that he was probably underacting in order not to
overshadow Beyonce, and she was probably right. Still, his character
was a caricature of a pseudo-thug from New York who moved up the
corporate ranks and added a veneer of sophistication over that thug
image. Stringer Bell, we hardly knew ye.

Even Ali Larter didn't come off as psychotic as she could
have...perhaps because underneath her lines was the feeling that she
was thinking, "What in the world is THIS crap?" Beyonce was a relative
nonentity (albeit a well-dressed one), but I'm sure that she and her
father bankrolled this movie in further misguided efforts to try and
prove that she is a Serious Actress (not to mention a vehicle for
further promotion of the House of Dead Wrong--excuse me, the House of
Dereon). Too bad it didn't work. However, Beyonce fans and stans will
faithfully flock to theaters and will loudly proclaim that she is the
best actress since Madea, and should win an Oscar for her performance
since she was "robbed" in Dreamgirls. I will give her this: she didn't
completely suck as an actress in this movie, but she didn't really
stretch herself as an actress either--but then again, she never has. At
least she didn't play a singer of some sort in this one, so there is
some progress being made.

My disbelief was hardly suspended in this movie. There were so many
ways that the movie could have been beefed up to carry viewers on an
emotional roller coaster ride, but the writers and directors chose to
take the safe route. I'd strongly suggest that people wait for the
movie to show up on regular cable programming, and not pay-per-view or
view-on-demand.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember that movie Wild Wild West? Will Smith has said that that movie
is one of his biggest regrets, because it opened at #1 even though it
sucked, and he said he hated knowing that so many people were spending
their money to watch a movie that wasn't good. At the time I'm writing
this, Obsessed is the #1 movie in the American box office, and I'm
wondering if, for example, Beyonce feels as guilty as Will Smith did,
because Wild Wild West is about ten times better than this snoozefest.
Personally I doubt she has the acting chops to even realize how
god-awful this thing is. 

I've seen some backwards thrillers in my time but THISI care hardly
think of where to start. My first question is for Beyonce. I'm
wondering if, when she signed on to play the wife of a man stalked by a
psychotic blonde, if she knew that her character would ultimately turn
out to be just as psychotic as the psychotic one. I'm guessing yes,
because here's a direct quote from her character late in the movie 
"You think you're crazy? I'll show you crazy!"

Wow.

If you want to watch Ali Larter squeezing her limited talents into the
form of a badly written blonde with some relationship issues and
Beyonce talking all tough to her (and to her husband), you might enjoy
this movie. Every once in a while a movie comes along that is so
flawlessly terrible that the perfection of the way the badness fits
together becomes a fascinating area of study. This is one of those
times.

Sharon is married to Derek who has a new employee at his work, a crazy
hot blonde named Lisa who was recently hired on from a temp agency. She
falls in love with Derek and forms a fantasy in her head that she and
Derek are together, blah blah blah blah. The movie is called Obsessed
and stars two women and one man. You don't really need to know anything
else in order to know everything there is to know about the movie,
except how bad it is. Sadly, you have to watch it to find that out. 

One of my favorite things was that the movie is as suspenseless as any
movie I've ever seen, and yet the suspense music kicks up constantly
and I guess we're supposed to scoot forward to the edge of our seats
and get all worried and whatnot. There's a scene when Lisa e-mails a
picture of herself to Derek which opens itself in a dozen windows as
soon as he opens the e-mail, and the orchestra kicks in frantically as
Derek slowly clicks them each closed, his wife only seconds away.

Did anyone else laugh at this? First of all, why would you slowly click
them closed one by one? Does he know nothing about computers? ALT-F4,
man!! Or if it's a Mac, Command-W!! But of course, if he knew how to
close windows like that then we would have missed out on the sheer
tension of watching this guy about to suffer the wrath of Beyonce. They
actually tried to generate TENSION by having a guy struggling to close
windows on his computer before his wife sees it!! HAHAHAHAHAHAAA!!!

Then again, with a wife as horrific as Beyonce's character, maybe it's
a good idea to fear her hysterical wrath. She does, after all, kick him
out of HIS OWN HOUSE for three months because she thinks. Not KNOWS,
mind you. She SUSPECTS that he had an affair. And when I say his own
house, I mean the beautiful, multi-million dollar mansion that they
live in, with the sleek new Escalade parked out front. 

This woman, ladies and gentlemen, is a COLLEGE STUDENT. I have trouble
relating to a man who would suffer so much ridiculous punishment at the
hands of an insecure and violently suspicious woman, and still beg on
his hands an knees for her to take him back. 

In order for a movie like this to work, you have to care about the
characters, that's obvious, but it's impossible here. Obsessed has
nothing going for it. It's a movie about one poor guy with two
psychotic women around him and I'm going to go ahead and suggest that
it's just not possible to make a good movie when your basic premise is
so overflowing with the yawn-inducing clichés of cheap, no-rent
thrillers. 

It is informative that Obsessed comes from David Loughery, the same
screenwriter who gave us the highly disappointing thriller Lakeview
Terrace last year. Obsessed is pretty much exactly the same story,
except Lakeview Terrace was about a black neighbor angry at his
interracial neighbors. Now we have a black wife going crazy at her
black husband's white stalker. Set your watch to beep every ten minutes
or so to make sure you can stay awake. It was a struggle for me!

Even worse, I'm not sure who the target is. Angry black women who hate
skinny, smart-ass blondes? Maybe. Word has it that the original title
was "Oh No She Didn't," which would at least have been amusing and
advertised right away that the whole movie is a joke. If they had made
this a parody, I really think it could have been good, but it takes
itself super- seriously, even when challenging us not to laugh at
Beyonce flinging Ali Larter all over her house, or not to cringe when
she viciously berates her boyfriend, for whom she has not the wispiest
scrap of trust but who has committed no crime. The most effective thing
that the movie does is convince me beyond a shadow of a doubt that if I
ever find myself dating Beyonce I will throw myself in front of the
nearest train.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to go see this film in the theaters and let me tell you this
movie was a blast! People were laughing and cheering through out. Was
it because it was an Oscar caliber film with amazing character
development? NO. It was because it was a brainless, campy, thriller.

There were many laugh-inducing moments. Were they supposed to be
intentionally funny? I'm not quite sure, but they were quite enjoyable
nonetheless.

Don't go into this movie with the mind frame of it being a deep,
psychological thriller with a chilling plot line because you will be
extremely disappointed. It's stupid fun, and what's wrong with some
stupid fun once in a while?
<|_=00=_|>
Total waste of time and money. How do you get your money back? It is
not only trite but was only made because of the race issue. It was
clearly a movie that was not performed as a way to improve the public
interest in attending movies or to provide relevant entertainment but
was made in an attempt to create paying customers wanting to see a
crazy white woman chasing an unappealing black man. Beyonce is not an
actress but chosen for the role for her attractiveness and name power.
I feel that a film of this caliber will find it's way to the cut rate
DVD movie bin at the local discount store and not improve sales at that
location.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything was cliché'. Everything was predictable. The pace never
changes.

The acting was mediocre and the characters weren't really believable.
To be honest you get kind of irritated by the actor's roles kind of how
you get irritated in horror movies when the girl just has to go back
into the house when she knows the killer is inside - the characters'
roles were the least realistic - it's almost as if they are all idiots
and have no idea how to handle simple problems even if it were basic
math.

Guys, next time, try to focus on making the movie enjoyable, and not
just your trailer...
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer made the movie seem GREAT!!However it was LONG & DRAWN OUT
to say the least!If the plot was thicker , and there wasn't SO much
down time between interesting scenes , it would have been OK.You really
don't get to feel like you 'know' the characters very well and it was
so long that there wasn't nearly enough in the movie to keep me
interested for even half the time!I would watch it as a Lifetime movie
, although sad to say I don't think it would cut it!Honestly, my friend
& I had completely HAD IT by the time it neared the end and got up &
left before it was even over , and we had been watching it for nearly
2hours!
<|_=00=_|>
Fellas, do yourself a favor - if you have to see this, see it with your
"woman" (by that I mean wife or very close significant other, not a
first date for the love of Pete), and make sure she pays. You all know
she wants to see it, and by the end you'll maybe even thank her for it.
Obsessed is one of those movies that women love to watch in their PJ's
on a Sunday afternoon with a pint of ice-cream when nothing else is on
*except* for the trashiest piece of trash on TV. And make no mistake,
Obsessed is such trash that it is a 3rd rate ripoff of Fatal
Attraction, which many forget was *already* a rip-off on Clint
Eastwood's Play Misty for Me. Here's what you need to know: nice
business guy with lots of cake and a fine mansion and a super-fine wife
and young tot gets derailed off of living in banality by a
foxy-but-trouble type of girl who's working part time in the office.

That's it. No more explanation. If you can guess everything that the
characters will do, or wont due to incompetence, then you're doing
well. Obsessed makes no bones about being original, and in fact could
be the precise template needed if anyone ever wanted to do a full-blown
ZAZ-style parody on pscyho-chick movies. It takes itself so seriously
that it's hard not to knock on it in most of the scenes - and it
becomes further frustrating since out of the three main characters, one
actor (Idris Elba) is actually very good, almost too good, for the
material, and another (Ali Larter) fits in in her completely 1 1/2
dimensional role without much struggle. Only one, Beyonce, seems to be
actually trying too hard to "act" and again gets in trouble as she did
in Dreamgirls.

The direction is very slack- considering it's a TV guy who did it,
maybe only TV according to his creds- and the writing is slack-ier. The
development of characterization and plot moves along like a expertly
crafted diarrhea, meaning that it never really stops from its
trajectory, and it may be a little smooth going, but it also hurts
trying to see it accomplish anything aside from pain. And yet, as far
as painful cinema goes, it could've been worse. It certainly has the
grace to give us a gigantic cat-fight at the end that you'd expect
samurai swords. It's not campy enough to recommend, and by no means if
you are a heterosexual male will you get much satisfaction out of it.
Girls will giggle and be fine with stuff that is run of the mill, with
a few jolting twists along the way.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say, I'm highly offended by the person calling this movie "A
Racist Piece of Trash" because they said in their comment, and I quote,
"I am sorry but there are very few African- American men in this world
that wouldn't jump at the chance to sleep with a white woman." Umm...
hello? YOU are racist for that comment alone.

I actually found the movie to be pretty entertaining and I was into it
the whole time. I felt angry, upset, and tense, because I was wrapped
in the drama. What struck me most what the portrayal by Ali Larter of a
woman who truly BELIEVED that the man was in love with her. I expected
it to be like other movies of this type, where the woman is
intentionally sabotaging the man's life. I was frustrated by her
character in a good way. It was believable and real.

I didn't expect this to be a riveting high-quality film. I expected it
to be entertaining, gripping, and that's exactly what it was. Never was
I bored. Anyone who expected greatness from this film shouldn't be
allowed to review, we all knew it wasn't an Oscar film. 

So, for what it is, I thought it was great. And the not-so-subtle
Christian Louboutin sponsorship... Fantastic:)
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I saw the trailer I knew this movie was going to suck really
bad. I walked into the theater jam packed. The beginning started pretty
descent, then once he started to get to know the "Obsessed" temp, the
movie started to get really weird. I think they over exaggerated this
movie way to much. The acting was horrible and the ending fight scene
was hilarious! Everyone in the theater laughed when the quote "Bitch
Breath" was said. This movie could of been a huge success, but they
hired really bad actors and actresses. The girl that played the temp is
a good actress, she knows better than to sign up for this crap. Overall
I gave this a 6/10 because some of it was pretty entertaining, I
wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone.
