
I fancied seeing a film on the way home from work today. When I arrived
at the cinema this was the next film on. I went in cold, knowing
nothing. 

Funky title sequence, OK. Opening scene with Statham asleep on a couch
 OK, so its one of those Jason Statham films, fine I can go with that;
Hollywood action film with a perfectly watchable lead, nothing too
challenging, just what I need to unwind after a hard day at the office.

It was at this point that the old memory cells started working and I
remembered that I had read something about the film. Oh no, isn't this
a British film, set in London? Yes it is. Oh dear. I don't want gritty,
low budget, realism, I don't want east end gangsters, mockney accents
and all too earnest attempts to be cool.

I was pleasantly surprised to find my fears unfounded. This is really
quite a good film.

Someone is killing London police officers, Statham, a cop who doesn't
play by the rules (is their any other kind?) is out to get him.

Statham does his Statham thing, and does it very well. The man is no
Brando, but this is a very creditable performance. He is believable as
his character, he does quietly menacing, he does humorous, There is
also a fair bit of charm in his interactions with his boss. There are a
few scenes where he enlists the help of a WPC (very well played small
part  sorry can't remember the actor) to check computer records. I
thought that the interaction between the two was very good and caused
me to wish that we would see Statham in a more relationship based
drama, rather than his standard action fare.

Aiden Gillen is very good as the deranged killer. He is obviously "not
in his right mind" but Gillen's subtle performance and the breadth of
emotions and he hints at keep him well clear of a pantomime "Psycho".

Paddy Considine is fine as Stratam's superior. Interesting to see the
inclusion of this homosexual character where his sexuality has nothing
in particular to do with the plot; he isn't a victim, there is no
mincing, no angst he is just a straight (as it were) gay man. Very,
very few incidentally gay people on the big screen.

Zawa Ashton was perfectly OK as a cop who became an addict while under
cover for the drug squad. David Morrisey doesn't have much to do as the
newspaper reporter whom the killer contacts to publicise his
activities.

What surprised me about the film was how good it looked. The
cinematography is excellent; nothing flashy, but at times quite
beautiful. I have never seen London look so good on film. The fact that
we were kept away from the usual tourist spots helped; no establishing
shot here, sweeping up the Thames, taking in the London Eye, the Houses
of parliament etc. No red London Buses (do they still have them?).
Also, there was also no attempt to make the place look like America
with aerial shots of skyscrapers etc. At the same time the film makers
didn't go to the other extreme and have Albert Square, litter and kebab
shops.

The action in the film is pretty low key in terms of spectacle, nothing
blows up, nobody takes their shirt off. The violence is real rather
than comic book stuff. For me, it comes across as real, rather than
affected "gritty reality". (Now there's an oxymoron for you)

Now, I am not saying that this is a great film. It is an entertaining
enough thriller, decently acting, with some very nice cinematography. I
don't imagine that it will will a lot of awards. But, it does the heart
good to see a half decent British film, that isn't trying to be
American or (defensively) trying too hard to be British. We could do
with a lot more.
<|_=00=_|>
A cop killing crim is giving the police the run around in old London
town.

Blitz is a good movie that finally comes to life about 20 to 30 minutes
in when we finally get to the main story. Once the chase is on with the
odd couple partnership of tough rule breaking Tom Brant (Jason Statham)
and gay straight laced Porter Nash (Paddy Considine) pursuing the cop
killing criminal who's hungry for notoriety the Blitz (Aiden Gillen)
the movie comes into it's stride. Before that we're inundated with so
many characters it's a little confusing. What makes matters worse is
that none of these side characters stories are ever really finished and
the time wasted on them could have been spent giving a little more
screen time to Porter Nash who is sadly underused.

Don't get me wrong though I enjoyed the film. Aiden Gillen is a
brilliant bad guy, giving his character a Johnny Rotten swagger. I felt
myself enjoying hating the Blitz and couldn't wait to see him get his
just deserts but we could have done with getting a little more insight
into his behaviour. Statham does a good job showing a little weakness
now and then in his usually gruff demeanour. As I have already said
Paddy Considine is great but not in it enough for my liking. London
looks great and there is an exciting chase through the streets which is
one of the high points of the movie.

I enjoyed the movie and would happily watch it again. It's biggest
fault was trying to juggle too many story lines at once and
unfortunately it dropped a couple of balls.
<|_=00=_|>
Some nice camera work, stylish blurring, but pretty clichéd police
drama. Jason Statham does what Jason Statham normally does, he's
utterly typecast as kind of British Dirty Harry, but it's not new
anymore like it was in Snatch/The Transporter.

His sidekick is not nearly as interesting as the little guy in Snatch
or the girl in Transporter.

Good work from Aiden Gillen (the guy who played Tommy Carcetti in The
Wire) as the bad guy. Zawe Ashton is also interesting as a WPC with a
drug problem. 

Mainly the plot seemed a bit disjointed and contrived. Overall it felt
like a TV police drama. Nothing special.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read the reviews, and agreeing with most of them, I'm a little
surprised the film scores so highly. Surely it rates mid-range
obscurity at best? The comments about unnecessary/unresolved sub-plots,
completely unrealistic event turns, and lack of character depth are all
absolutely spot on, as is the 'Ronseal' analogy. But the weak,
predictable and incredibly rapid ending left us quite empty. It was
more suited to an American TV series where an advert break happens just
before 'Columbo gets his man'. There were also some terrible continuity
gaffs, especially relating to time of day and weather (look especially
before, during and at the end of the hotel to trains chase). Come on
British cinema, you can do better than this!
<|_=00=_|>
One of Statham's best. Jason, as usual, plays himself, although this
time in perhaps his most realistic settings. No wires, no kung-fu, no
sixth sense. Just an unhealthy, alcoholic, total b**stard of a cop.

This film starts out at best amoral, and I can only conclude by the end
that it is positively immoral, with many things that are very
objectionable. The few characters with hope or any redeeming qualities
all get dragged down into the mire, and London has rarely looked so
frightening and depressing and worryingly real.

And yet the film is compelling viewing. It won't do well because the
action is not the point, and what action there is (and there is plenty)
all has a bitter taste rather than the usual cathartic "it's an action
flick" joy. Equally, because it is Statham, and the action is so
prevalent, it will probably be critically lambasted. But it is really
quite a thoughtful film.
<|_=00=_|>
Blitz is not getting much respect from reviewers on IMDb, and I'm very
surprised by this. I loved it from the first minute to the last and
ordered the Blu-Ray on line before the credits had even finished.

Statham plays an aggressive cop with an attitude, and if he's got a
weapon in his hands (like a hockey stick) he'll wield it like a pro.

Paddy Considine plays a gay cop who's capable of taking the law into
his own hands, and this allows him to work with Statham just
beautifully.

Aidan Gillen plays a fabulous psycho with a thing for killing cops, and
he's been one of my favourite British actors for the past 10 years
anyway, so it would have been hard for him to screw this one up.

The action from the opening scene is great, Statham's lines are
terrific stuff and had me laughing hard more than once, the odd-team
Statham and Considine create is brilliant, the story doesn't get bogged
down in personal problems, there are no annoying girlfriends, wives or
kids to pull the actors and audience sideways away from the story (some
directors seem to love putting that type of stuff in), the continuity
issues others have mentioned are so minor they don't matter, the
soundtrack was perfect, and the ending was everything I hoped it would
be.

This film is never going to make the 'Greatest Films Ever Made' list,
but its sure as hell fun to watch as far as I'm concerned. It doesn't
beat around the bush getting started, doesn't waste time during the
film, keeps up the fun, and what more do you want from Statham and an
action film? To the film's detractors I say 'lighten up'! It's obvious
from the first 10 minutes the film's creators weren't chasing Academy
Awards, so why knock it so hard? It's meant to entertain for 90
minutes, and it does just that.
<|_=00=_|>
As fans of Jason Statham me and my girl saw this yesterday. I'm usually
a fan of his over-the-top action films like 'The Transporter's', 'Crank
1 & 2' and 'The Mechanic'. I was surprised to see that this was
something a little different from him. Well, a little different. Jason
Statham is basically playing Jason Statham which is always good to
watch in my opinion but here the film is played as a more grittier,
realistic affair with lashings of violence and the occasional funny
moment. Paddy Considine does well as the gay copper who teams up with
Statham to try and napture a nutty killer who's targeting cops. Giving
the films standout performance, Aidan Gillen plays the killer and is
totally convincing in the role. It's not mind-blowing stuff but it's
enjoyable and Statham fans will lap it up. ***/*****
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is an action packed thriller, one that should be enjoyed
with a couple of beers in a man cave (with friends, of course). Some
scenes are quite violent and gory, including depictions of dismembered
body parts and brain splatterings. There are some hilarious moments
that are perhaps more funny because the movie is otherwise quite
serious. The main actor (Statham) plays his role well and has an edge
about him that comes off as real. He had some nice banter with his
homosexual boss, but thankfully there wasn't any suggestion of any
sexual tension between the two (not because I'm homophobic, but because
I think it would distract from the action too much.) The rest of the
cast was average. The deranged killer was neither scary nor psychotic
and I didn't get the feeling that he was really on a killing spree. I
guess the bar of the deranged killer was set by the Joker from Batman.
Overall, a good movie to watch once.
<|_=00=_|>
Brant is a no nonsense copper. Frequently in trouble for violent
conduct, he drinks hard, smokes where he likes and can't operate a
computer and sees typing to be like cooking  women's work. He is
pretty much on his last chance whenever someone start killing police
officers. The killers calls himself Blitz and informs a journalist that
he intends to kill 8 more officers; meanwhile Brant joins his boss Nash
to try and catch the killer before he strikes again.

Bit of an odd film this; it sort of does enough to be entertaining but
at the same time it seems to want to pull in a direction that doesn't
really fit the material, while also rather fudging the darker drama
that it also could have been. The end result is a bit of a muddle but
it is solid enough to get by. The film starts with Brant taking on some
yobs and then is followed by a scene of him being tough in the face of
the department doctor  so far, so much to be expected. Unfortunately
for the film, the rest of the plot doesn't really lend itself to this
sort of cop  he feels like he would be more at home in more of an
action movie. So when Brant is around the film is a little bit cheeky
and a little bit tough, but otherwise it keeps taking odd paths. So for
example the entire thread with Falls seems wasted  her drug use, her
relationship, none of it seems to fit into the rest of the film.

This rather muddled feel also leads to the film not quite delivering in
any specific way. It feels like it should be a tough-talking action
movie, but yet it never becomes one. It feels like there are
character-driven aspects to be had, but yet you never get to the heart
of anything. It sort of does a bit of all of this well enough to get by
 but this is what it is doing, getting by. The actors help it greatly,
even if their presence may also have guiding the film down certain
roads. I think this specifically about Statham who is a strength to the
film while also being a possible factor for the confused approach. He
does "Stratham" and does it well and kudos for a guy getting Hollywood
money to be coming back to the UK to make movies. He is a real presence
in the film but too much of it seems geared towards his performance
when it should have gone other ways  he is still good, but he should
have gone with the film, not the other way around. Considine must have
signed on to a different script, because he literally does nothing here
 such a great actor and he has a role that has so little to it that
anyone could have done it. Gillen also seems to have a lack of material
 he is OK but the film never lets him be more than who he is the first
time we see him. Ashton is good as her struggling addict, but the film
does nothing with her so her hard work is wasted. Morrissey has little
to do  again I presume the script that he signed to was more
intelligent that it turned out to be in the final version? Blitz is an
OK film because the main plot is solid enough and Statham is grizzly
enough to keep things going. However there is a lot of wasted potential
here in the actors and in the various plot threads  it feels like they
had more than just a basic police thriller in their script, made a
better but more complex film but then ended up cutting it back to be a
film that would appeal more to those coming to see a "Jason Statham
film", even though bits of the previous film were still included
whether they worked or not. Solid enough to fill the time, but
somewhere in that editing room there is a much better film than this
one.
<|_=00=_|>
I almost went to catch BLITZ when it was released at the cinema but was
totally snowed under at work . People who had seen it said they weren't
keen on it but never seemed able to specify why they didn't like it .
By the time I did manage to get time off work it had been and gone from
the multiplex in less than the space of two weeks which is never a good
sign . Regardless of this I made a point of looking out for it and saw
it earlier this evening It gets off to a good start with some tough nut
pulling out a hurling stick and giving some knife wielding chavs a
violent beating . The problem with this is that they're all actors in a
feature film rather than people involved in a fly on the wall
documentary . If it had have been a fly on the wall documentary called
VIOLENT SCUM GET NUTTED I would have given it 10 out out 10 for the
title alone but a drama needs a plot anything involving a plot in BLITZ
gets .... well blitzed due to some poor writing .

First of all a gay detective relates a story to his colleague of how
despite the greatest effort of his force they couldn't convict a serial
paedophile because " we couldn't catch him in the act and the kids were
too traumatised to identify them " Hmmmm might it not be a good idea to
use forensics for example ? Instead of that the gay detective goes
round to the paedos house to give him a good beating to the genitals .
Yeah sure you did . Maybe he did and that's why the paedo got off with
it - police brutality during an arrest . I guess this scene was
included so we'd feel sympathy for the coppers but there's something
bizarrely not right with this scene 

Next up a policeman gets shot dead by the eponymous Blitz possibly on
the grounds that his grammar isn't 100 % Maybe not a good enough reason
for killing someone - unless you come on to this site and notice the
illiterate scribblings of some people online in which case murder is
justified . Interesting that the police are unable to get any leads
with this killing . I mean camp bloke wearing yellow sunglasses and a
purple jacket shooting a cop in a busy street in broad daylight is rare
. So rare you think the police might have asked eye witnesses if they'd
seen something ? I mean it's not like Nuremberg where no one heard
anything , saw anything or knew what was going on. No the cops confine
their identification to looking through CCTV only to conclude " It's
like he knows what cameras are working . We can't get an ID on this
freak " . Well you could asked the hundred people walking down the
street if they'd seen the suspect . They're not even trying . Hardly
surprising since at least one of them's a smack-head and the rest have
got a drink problem . Hardly surprising that Mr Blitz is the cleverest
character in the film . So clever in fact that he knows the address of
every police officer in London 

It's easy to see why a lot of people were disappointed with BLITZ . Of
course if you went in to the cinema wanting to see Stathem blow away
villains left right and centre you can understand the disappointment
but I doubt if anyone was expecting an action-fest and the top quality
cast is what drew me to the film . Considine's gay detective is only
gay because the screenplay says he's gay and could be by any slumming
journeyman actor rather than Considine . David Morrisey seems cast to
make everyone forget he was in BASIC INSTINCT 2 but best performance is
by Aidan Gillen which isn't saying much and I do wish he had a bit more
screen time , a screen time that is composed of giant plot holes and
police procedures so ridiculous you'd think you're watching a film
about Darwin in action 

Perhaps the biggest disappointment is that BLITZ is close to being a
very good cop thriller that Britain rarely makes . Director Elliot
Lester shows a lot of competence such as the scene where a policewoman
lies in a pool of blood and then the rain splatters on the ground and
Stathem is amusing as he dishes out one liners with a wry sense of
humour but BLITZ should have been better
