
The Cabin in the Woods is a spin on the horror genre from writer's Joss
Whedon and Drew Goddard, without giving away the spoilerish parts of
the plot, I'll simply say that it involves 5 friends who fit the horror
movie stereotypes (Jock, Slut, Party-Guy, Nerd, Virgin) who go to a
cabin in the woods to party and get away from it all. Trouble is, its
never really safe to go to a cabin in the woods is it?

To be honest, the less you know about this film, the more awesome it
will be. I felt that the trailer gave away a bit too much of the twists
and turns one can expect from the film, but at the same time the image
of a bird flying into a giant forcefield is what will set this film
apart from the generic horror films that hit the theatres today. The
Cabin In The Woods tells you upfront "You think you know the story..."
but of course you don't. This is Joss Whedon after all. Fans of Buffy
and Angel will get a kick out of this, as actors from that universe
make their way into this film.

It's been a long time since I've had a lot of fun at the movies and the
Cabin in the Woods was a lot of fun. It's an odd movie to sell, because
a lot of it has to be kept secret to make the second half of the movie
exciting and fresh. It blends a few genres together, the two main ones
being horror and comedy and it works perfectly. Both Whedon and Goddard
worked on Buffy and Angel, which was a balancing act of genres, so they
knew the right tone to get here and they nailed it. They take the
clichéd aspects of every horror film and put it in here, to brilliant
use. We actually get to see reasons for stupid character mistakes,
which made that whole aspect of the film fun. 

Richard Jenkins and Bradley Whitford have great chemistry together and
stole every scene they're in. I would love to see these two character
actors work together again, they made this film really fun and they are
a joy to watch on the screen. The young actors, including Thor himself
Chris Hemsworth, sell the clichéd horror characters very well. In most
horror flicks I can't stand any of the characters, here I was rooting
for all of them.

There are some truly hilarious moments, I am dying to talk about them,
but doing so would ruin the surprises. All I can say is that I was
laughing throughout the entire film, I cheered, I clapped and I enjoyed
myself. There are a lot of horror references, most notably The Evil
Dead, so it's fun to spot things here and there. Horror fans I think
will really get a kick of of this flick and I pray it does well, cause
it's the most fun I've had in a long time. 

Drew Goddard's first directorial gig, he had a lot on his plate and he
managed to pull off one hell of a film. It helps when you have someone
like Joss Whedon in your corner, but I applaud him for being able to
pull off the tone perfectly, I imagine the script to screen process was
identical. This is a very clever script, with laughs, gore and
surprises at every corner. When you have Goddard, whose worked on
Buffy, Angel, Lost and wrote Cloverfield, teamed up with partner Joss
Whedon who is one of the best writers working today, then you know
you're walking into something special. I can't recommend this flick
enough. When it comes out, you must go see it. 

Just makes sure you don't know much about it beforehand, or it might
ruin the awesome factor.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the premiere of The Cabin In The Woods last Friday. Not
having read any of the reviews going around prior to watching it I must
say it is one of the worst films I have seen in a long time. The thing
is, am I missing something? I get the fact that it is a parody or an
anti-horror film or perhaps even a nod (whether positive or negative)
to horror films generally, but I still don't like it.

It was predictable from the start (why did that eagle have to hit the
invisible boundary to the cabin? It made the later scene with the motor
bike jump completely redundant). The acting was poor and even though
the film may be satirical it is still painful to watch.

The only thing I do like is perhaps the idea of an ode to all horror
films and horror characters, but if it is a parody than that wouldn't
make sense.

I am just so surprised that this film currently has 7.9 / 10. Am I
missing something here???
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big Horror Fan. I have been since I was a young child. I've never
seen anything like this movie before. It's a combination of everything.
It's taken everything from every other Horror Movie and thrown it all
into this movie. But what is really impressive is the fact that the
movie has it's own (original) plot.

What people seem to get confused about is that this is also a comedy.
If you haven't laughed within the first 10 mins, then you better walk
out right now, because the movie is exactly the same all through out. I
was laughing all the way through it. This movie is just bizarre. One of
the most bizarre Horror/Comedies i've ever watched in my life, is fact,
the most bizarre Horror/Comedy i've watched in my life.

Don't be expecting any scary scenes or anything suspenseful, because
this is the wrong movie for you.

The acting was great, well written, well directed and excellent comedy
one-liners and with the best twist i've ever seen! This movie is
exactly where it needs to be, it's a cult movie. It's "EXACTLY" what it
should be. I'm part of the cult following! A cult classic and the best
movie i've seen of 2012! If you are a Horror (over the top violence)
mixed in with comedy fan, I 110% recommend this one! 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why people are saying that this film was an abomination
and advising others not to see it, because it has all if the element
required in a fantastic horror.

For me it re-ignited the flame in what was a dying genre, being
poisoned by numerous of extremely bad films. Not only did it make it's
way into my favorite horrors of all time, but it makes me have faith
that people can once again create a true horror. Now there are only
remakes of horrors, ( Friday the 13th, A Nightmare on Elm Street ....)
or prequels, ( Prometheus ).

This movie is full of twists and turns you don't know what way it's
going to go. It's smart, funny, gory and sexy with fantastic acting by
all the cast. I was on the edge of my seat hungry for more.

Overall, I rated this movie a 10 because it deserved it. This was one
of the best films I've seen in a very long time and is one that I'll be
watching over and over again.
<|_=00=_|>
Is this some kind of a joke? Are there cameras that filming people's
reactions and laughing at them or what?

It was AFWUL! It was neither scary nor funny. I hated myself that I
didn't leave the theater after the first 15 minutes. 

The only scary and the best scene of the movie was the guy appeared
suddenly at the old gas station. The movie is that bad...

Too bad I can't rate it less than 1.

Unless you are from the new generation who loves nonsense bloody scenes
and find them funny and somehow scary; STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE!

My rating : -10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I would normally be leery of giving out a perfect 10 rating, but if
ever there was a modern horror movie that was worthy of a 10, it's this
one. "Cabin in the Woods" has done what I no longer thought was
possible for a horror movie, it blew my mind and showed me something I
never expected. When I first saw a trailer for this on television I
thought "Oh great, another recycled, clichéd horror flick. Can't they
think of anything other than putting a group of young people in a stale
setting and kill them off one by one?" Well it would appear that they
can. This is a film that is nearly impossible to market effectively
without giving anything away. Some of the more recent trailers have
included much more footage that gives a glimpse into what this movie
REALLY is about. Word of mouth should be the biggest factor that helps
make this movie popular. I just hope for your sake that no one spoils
this brilliant gem for you. It's best to go into it with as little
information as possible. I really enjoyed the pacing of this movie.
They could've taken this in an entirely different direction if they
simply wanted to shock you at the end. Instead, they treat the film
like a slow, steady reveal. In fact, the opening scene does not even
feature the group of kids that we follow on their horrific trip to the
cabin. Instead, it opens with the "other" side of this story and the
characters who get about as much screen time as our heroine and her
pals. The result is a cinematic experience like none other. The
audience is fed bits of information little by little throughout the
entire film, so you're always hot on the trail of this story's secrets.
You won't know exactly what's going on but you'll feel like you have a
pretty good grasp on things the further you advance into it. In
reality, every time this plot reveals a twist, it also introduces more
brand new questions into your mind. So the twists don't just come
completely out of left field and shock you, but they guide you through
a very intriguing story that manages to keep expanding into something
bigger and bigger. I'm so glad they wrote the script this way. I feel
like 9 times out of 10 the writers of today would be too tempted to
create a story that hides everything behind the curtain and focuses
solely on the kids at this cabin. That way they can build up to a final
payoff that no one would ever see coming. This payoff is too big to
simply catch you off guard with. They got this right, a movie that
isn't only original for the end of the third act, but a refreshing
journey from start to finish. Go experience this film before you
overhear people talking about it at the water cooler.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember when Scream came out? People loved it - and not because it was
the most horrifying and controversial scary flick ever released. It was
a huge success because it gave fans of the horror genre something new.
It made them laugh because it lovingly poked fun at a genre the fans
knew by heart. Cabin in the woods takes a slightly different approach.
Where Scream chose to laugh about dumb things people do in horror
movies, Cabin decides instead to respectfully explain...well,
everything - and making you laugh/scream while it does. 

I absolutely loved this film. If you've looked at a few reviews, you'll
see this film has three acts. I like to compare them to the three acts
of a magic trick - something I learned from The Prestige:

1) The Pledge - Something ordinary is introduced to the audience. Five
average college students go to a remote cabin in the woods where
they'll spend the weekend partying it up! This is where we say to
ourselves that because this is a horror movie, everyone will die, and
thus we already know the ending. Am I right?

2) The Turn - There's something else happening here. It's not what we
thought. This is the part where we scratch our head and say "Wait a
sec...what's going on?" This story isn't keeping to the rails we set it
on. It's taking a weird turn and only getting weirder. This is also the
part where people give up and decide they hate it because it's
different. It's also the part where your standard horror flick
ends...but wait!

3) The Prestige - The resolution. The end. The explanation to
everything that's been going on, and also possibly the greatest 20
minutes ever shown in horror movie history. This is the part where the
audience is silent and speechless as every die-hard horror fan's dream
is realized on screen. All your dedication, love, and sacrifice for
this genre is justified. The credits roll, you walk out of the theater
saying to yourself, "Did that just happen?" - and then you buy another
ticket and watch it again.

I'm trying not to reveal anything too big, and I think everyone else
will tell you the same; you want to know as little as possible about it
before you watch. The movie is funny, scary, and unbelievably
entertaining. If you don't like it, you're one of the people that took
a turn in act two and stopped following along. I feel so sorry for
those guys. Have a good time at the theater!
<|_=00=_|>
I just can't get enough of this film. This year alone I have already
watched it 4 times (and the year isn't even done yet). It works on so
many levels and is so much fun; the way the conventions of the 'Horror'
genre are turned upside down, while at the same time the story
transcends the mere spoof and satire and becomes something new,
entirely original  just: Wow!

It's clear this film was a labour of love; every tiny little detail was
cared for and the writing is just phenomenal. The dialogues between the
'office clerks' alone are beyond priceless and offer such great,
apparently effortless performances by Richard Jenkins and Bradley
Whitford (two absolutely fantastic character actors, by the way)  this
movie has simply everything. And the last 20 minutes offer the biggest
payoff I have ever seen in a film. A rare treat and a true pleasure for
film geeks like me. Thank you Joss and Drew! 10 stars out of 10.

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a horror movie that is poking fun at horror movies and
movies in general. So if you're looking for a film that you can cradle
a scared lady-friend to, this is not the one. 

To anyone who has watched Southpark's Britney Spears episode you will
know the parallel that Matt Stone & Trey Parker drew between our modern
culture glorifying and then using celebrities up as an ancient
sacrifice to the gods to ensure a good harvest. This movie does the
same- by creating a reality TV type scenario that the main characters
walk into. But it takes it a step further, in showing how the horror
movie clichés (joker, jock, slut, nerd and virgin) can be seen as a
more elaborate version of this kind of sacrifice ; and horror is the
genre that supplies an endless stream of blood to satisfy this ancient
need. 

But the characters are so much more than clichés- in the movie they
actually are noticing how they are falling/being cast into these roles
and being less and less human, less and less themselves. That in itself
has me tipping my hat to the writers. Joss Whedon you clever beast!

As to it not being pure horror- that's the point of the movie. I was
enjoying the commentary that the narrative made while it developed and
because i didn't know where it was heading and why things were
happening, it kept me on edge and interested to the very end. 

At one point I was sitting there thinking - wow this movie must have
been so much fun to make! It was definitely fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The horror genre for me has been pretty mediocre for the past several
years, and so I have pretty much ignored a lot of horror movies that
have come out, with the exception of a few. However, after the buzz
surrounding Cabin, I knew it was something I had to see. And sure
enough, Cabin delivers in spades. It has everything a horror fan could
want, from our favorite clichés to some fantastic surprises. Suffice to
say, every horror fan should go see this.

I won't spoil the story, but to get into things a little, we focus on
the age old tale of horror films: friends go to a remote cabin for some
RnR and then the **** hits the fan. And when it does, it does so
gleefully. It would be easy to blow this off as a simple parody, but
it's not. I won't say how, but this is essentially a horror movie
within a horror movie, and it's mostly dead serious. There's plenty of
humor throughout, mostly due to Fran Krantz stoner character. And in
fact, pretty much all the actors play there parts well. They are
likable characters, even if they are cliché, but the clichés are part
of the entire point. And in such areas, these characters are great. If
you're worried about the horror aspect of the film, fear not, it
delivers immensely. There are plenty of chilling scenes, though I
wouldn't necessarily call them scary, and there is plenty of gore for
the gorehounds, particularly at the end.

To say much more would be to give away too much. I certainly had a few
qualms about the film, but they were few and far between. And the less
you know the better. I will only say that if you've been looking for
good horror film, this is it. Whedon and Goddard have delivered in
every way and their film will be remembered for some time in the same
way Scream was remembered for shaking up the genre. This is similar,
but different in oh so many ways. Go see this movie. It's the kind of
film that comes out once in a blue moon.
