
On the way home from seeing this terrific movie, I stopped at a light,
a few cars in front waiting to turn right. Around us, the sun had just
set, a full white moon was high and the reflections of brake lights
bounced off gas stations and car dealerships.

What an amazing world we live in. There is so much in the five miles
between my house and the theater where I saw the movie that I could
never experience it all. Moments arrive and disappear and the the
people shift, move, appear and disappear.

I think most of us need some kind of assurance that it all goes on
forever, that our open windows aren't just blacked over and sealed at
death.

Clint Eastwood has made a quiet, reflective, thoughtful film on this
condition, this need for forever. It's not a flashy paranormal probe of
ghosts and goblins, spirits and such.

Taking three central lives we see our need for a hereafter from a
French woman who has experienced something before being revived, from a
twin boy who has lost his brother and from a lonely man who seems able
to capture something from beyond this life. Or perhaps he just captures
something from those who come to him.

Cecile De France is stunning as a television reporter who touches her
own death and returns. Frankie (or is it George) McLaren is good as the
young boy. And Matt Damon's restrained performance is a revelation.

Eastwood has the assured hand that allows long segments in French with
English subtitles and a juncture with two disasters and such a
touchy-feely subject, and yet it works. Quietly. Thoughtfully.

He also has the good sense to let us draw our own conclusions.
<|_=00=_|>
For some bizarre reason, marketers opted to make Clint Eastwood's
latest work look like a rejected script to an M. Night Syamalon movie
in its trailers. What with its catastrophic events and plot centric
imagery, you'd think Eastwood had made a disaster movie rather than
what the reality turns out to be. This is a much more thoughtful film
about death that examines how living characters deal with the
aftereffects. Matt Damon's character, Lonegan, is not a protagonist but
one character in a larger ensemble piece. Naturally, it benefits
marketing to try to isolate this certain aspect of the plot to make
this look like a thriller, but it is a impressionist character piece by
all means. Even the psychic aspect is played down, and never truly
explained.

What that reality turns out to be is something akin to one of the time
centric French minimalists like Chantal Akerman and Jacques Rivette.
While it never of course becomes a four hour movie about household
chores like Jeanne Dielman, it nevertheless is one of the most
jarringly French art-house-like films to ever be released as a
mainstream American film. Eastwood's decision to leave Peter Morgan's
script as a rough first draft is likely part of what's drawing
criticism, but this is arguably what makes it so effective as well.
Narrative coherence is spurned in favor of genuine CINEMA, people
behaving on-screen and showing the effects of great turmoil in every
little nuance. Eastwood, known for stripping down rewrites to maintain
a certain spontaneous quality in his films (and for shooting very few
takes) saw something in this script that he knew wouldn't make it to
the final draft. This is how it maintains such a minimal quality.

Of course, such methodology is in tune with French filmmakers like
Bresson, a filmmaker who would likely be criticized today for his
deadpan performances when what he's really doing is drawing attention
to actions rather than performances. Eastwood puts a lot of stock in
gesture: hands in particular. Hands are prominently shown whenever a
character embraces, and they are also the method through which Lonegan
is able to make contact with the afterlife. He tries to make
connections through a cooking class, in which he must make use of his
hands (and which inevitably leads him to touch the hands of others when
he wants least to). There's also a generous use of exteriors, with the
running theme of loneliness in crowded locations which anybody whose
experienced such trauma (or even lesser traumas) can relate to. It
sounds like Eastwood is employing the dreaded preference of "things" to
"people," but in reality this is a perfect melding of characters to
their environment.

None of this is the kind of post-Elia Kazan acting our country is used
to, but each of the actors do a remarkable job in communicating in this
way. Damon gives the finest performance of his career, and each of the
supporting cast is remarkable as well in the way they REACT, rather
than act. A jarring change for the star of Gran Torino, perhaps, but
one which works for the material.

And that, I think, is why such mixed reactions come out of those who
view this film. Eastwood is not making a heightened film about death,
but an understated (despite its moments of sensationalism, which serve
as counterpoint) exploration of how people deal with death. What makes
it even more difficult is that, despite an optimistic conclusion, no
definite resolution is ever reached. We never learn the nature behind
Lonegan's abilities, we only get hints at how it may have come about.
No religious agenda is preached, nor is religion rejected. Such open
ended filmmaking is vastly beyond even limited releases, and is usually
the kind of stuff found on the Criterion Collection decades after its
completion. To have a release like this is astounding, but has likely
doomed the film financially.

That would be a shame. In a year that has produced solid work ranging
from Sorkin and Fincher's The Social Network, Martin Scorsese's
woefully underrated Shutter Island, and the hype-driven juggernaut that
was Inception, I think Hereafter ranks among the very best of the year.
I would even go so far as to call it the first bonafide masterpiece of
the decade. I suspect this places me at odds with many people, some of
whom have tried to logically argue with me why this was an incompetent
film (to them, I would explain that film is not meant to be dictated by
plot logic, the most superficial aspect of filmmaking at best) but as
this film goes to show, some things just can't be easily explained
away.
<|_=00=_|>
The viewer doesn't know quite what to expect when sitting down to watch
"Hereafter". I went in thinking it would be something a bit spooky, or
mind-bending like "Inception". What I experienced was even more
fascinating - and thought provoking - leading me to ask more questions
than I would have answers.

"Hereafter" presents you with fascinating characters - literally from
the first few minutes of the film, you find yourself both riveted and
squirming to look away. Scenes from a vicious tsunami that takes the
lives of hundreds of thousands leaves the viewer feeling shocked and
empty -- but what follows in the aftermath is what is truly astounding.

The acting in this movie is absolutely superb. From Matt Damon's
portrayal of George - a man who has abandoned his psychic gift (or what
he considers to be a curse) for a more simple and obscure life as a
factory worker... to Cecile De France's talented portrayal of Marie, a
French journalist who experiences a tragedy of such enormity you wonder
how she will ever get back to living a 'normal' life... to young George
and Frankie McLaren's work as the adorable Marcus and Jason - British
twins who must contend with their mother's drug abuse and, later, a
tragedy that will tear them apart - the viewer is left to feel as if
they are literally part of the story. You rally for the characters -
and yearn to see how their fate will unfold. The intersection of all of
their lives is what is so fascinating.

While I went into "Hereafter" expecting something a bit obscure and
mind-bending, I was pleasantly surprised to see that this film is a
drama that delves into not only the topic of life after death - but
life itself. Clint Eastwood does an amazing job at giving us a look
into the peace and mystery that awaits us on the other side... but also
the joy and beauty of what is right in front of us.

"Hereafter" was a pleasant surprise. While some questions remain at the
end of the film, I feel it is a perfect ending to a film about a topic
as mysterious as life after death. At one point in the film, Thierry
Neuvic's character, Didier, makes the comment that if there were life
after death, it would have been proved by now. By the end of the film,
you realize that the most wonderful and amazing events in life cannot
necessarily be proved - but with enough faith and through fate -
everything lines up exactly as it should.
<|_=00=_|>
This drama is about three lonely people each living in different
countries whose lives become indelibly connected in an unforseeable,
yet touching way. The story centers on Matt Damon, an American, who
apparently has the psychic ability of contacting the recently departed,
however, he believes that this "gift" is a "curse" because it renders
him a social outcast. There is also a French woman who has a near death
experience and a troubled British boy grieving over the loss of a loved
one.

I am not a firm believer in a hereafter life or psychic abilities, and
what is great about this movie is that it addresses these issues in an
intelligent way without asking the audience to debate their existence.
Instead, it focuses on the characters and how these issues affect their
lives. There is nothing cheap or gimmicky about this movie. It simply
tells a touching story without being overly sentimental. Clint Eastwood
delivers a great picture and Matt Damon an excellent performance. The
round-out cast deserves a big-hand as well. Keep in mind that this is a
character drama and, like cooking a good sauce, takes its time to
develop a richness. So if you're the type of person who only responds
to immediate sensory gratification, this movie might not be for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm amazed at the amount of attacks this wondrous picture has suffered
so far. I don't know whether it's Clint Eastwood, Matt Damon, or an
overstated publicity before its opening. Would it have received
different reviews if it had been directed or starred by other people, I
don't know! The movie is SUPREME! It's probably going to be the best
movie I will have watched this year. I don't deny that at first I was
so put off watching itbecause of your reviews, of course, and because
I originally thought it would grapple with bereavement and loss and all
spooky depressing mattersbut an initial 10 min proved I had been
greatly mistaken, and misled. It's been time since I've followed such a
delicate and lovely storyline. It reminds me of movies like Sleepless
in Seattle, The Adjustment Bureau and Jet Lag. It's much better and
sophisticated in romance, for that matter; the romantic element runs
almost surreptitiously, without you noticing it, till it is consummated
in the end. The multi-plot scenario is really authentic, despite some
reservations I have toward the Irish twins story. Some may criticize by
stating its slow pace, but in my opinion it couldn't have been brought
out another way; this is drama, people, not an action or horror flick.

This is a very bright, profound and unusual work of art. I may have my
takes on some points in the scenario, the attitude towards Christianity
in particular (which was quite unexpected given the spiritual dimension
of the movieas if they were trying to re-found spirituality without
religion!); but all in all, a fascinating picture.
<|_=00=_|>
An emotional film (bring some hankies) exploring the love of children
for their mother, the loss of a loved one, and the near-death
experiences of the two main characters. The acting is superb,
particularly the young McLaren brothers and Cecile DeFrance. I applaud
Clint Eastwood for taking this risk and creating a solid piece with
riveting emotions and a fantastic conclusion. The only leap of faith
that must be taken is the belief that George (Matt Damon) truly has
this gift/curse since it is the thread that weaves through all his
relationships. This is truly an enjoyable movie and adds to my belief
that the greatness of a film is not in the critic's eyes but in your
own. This is the second sleeper movie of the week for me. The first one
was RED...a great, entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Hereafter is a slow, quiet study on the effect that death and the
dearly departed have on the living. 

It's not really a ghost story or even a very supernatural movie. The
three main characters each have felt death's power in different ways in
their life. George (Matt Damon), a man who can contact the deceased,
has fled from his abilities because they keep him from having a normal
life. Marie (Cecile de France) is a journalist who has a near-death
experience during a tsunami, and becomes consumed with understanding
what she saw. And in London, a young British boy is desperate to
contact a lost family member one last time. 

The three separate stories do eventually connect, but that's not really
where the value of Hereafter lies. I can see this film being a source
of frustration for some viewers eager for a traditional conflict and
resolution or character arc, but those things aren't really Eastwood's
priority.The movie doesn't have much of a "point", other than how death
is such an important part of all of our lives, even as it's also
probably the most mysterious. 

I liked it, but I'm hesitant in recommending it. Slow-paced movies like
these need the right audience. It's fairly different from Eastwood's
other movies, and I wouldn't mind seeing him tackle something like
this, again.   
<|_=00=_|>
Clint Eastwood has once again proved himself to be a formidable
director. The style and structure of storytelling used in Hereafter
will not appeal to a large audience, but something tells me he knew
this all too well but honestly, didn't care and rightfully so. Because
let's face it, he can afford it and it's certainly a privilege he has
earned. And with Hereafter, it seems that all Mr. Eastwood wants to do
is share a story. A very beautiful one at that.

Hereafter is divided into three story lines, spread over three
different countries. We have Matt Damon as a reluctant psychic in the
United States, Cécile De France who plays a journalist in France and a
young pair of twin brothers (Frankie and George McLaren) in England.
All of these peoples' lives are in one way or another affected by
different aspects of death, whether that be a near-death experience or
the passing of someone very dear. Or, in Damons case, the ability to
establish a certain connection with those who are no longer with us.
Eastwood has decided on a particularly art house-like approach, which,
like I mentioned earlier, will certainly back off a large amount of
potential viewers. However, I personally very much appreciate his
decision. He has obviously chosen not to make this some big, hyped-up
monster movie about all things paranormal. Instead, Hereafter deals
with its subject with great integrity and subtlety. Although, despite
said subtlety, it features a few moments which are, by contrast,
incredibly intense and shocking (in a non-scary way). In fact, I would
even go so far as to say it is not for the faint of heart, but I mean
that mostly in an emotional sense, rather than a spectacular one. On a
side note, I would actually not recommend this film to anyone who has,
in any way, shape or form been confronted with the 2004 tsunami, or
even the London terrorist attacks. It might be really confronting, so
be advised.

I personally think the film's rating of 6.7 is a bit low, but on the
other hand I do somewhat understand why this film has not received the
appreciation it deserves. Simply put, not everyone (actually, many
people) will not understand it. It is a small story, for a small
audience. Also, anyone watching this because they think it's all about
Matt Damon will be somewhat deceived. I fully understand why they put
his name and picture on the poster, since he is the only big name on
the payroll. But this is really not 'his' film, he just plays a part in
it. And he does it well, but the rest of the cast actually deserves a
great deal of credit, because they are quite simply phenomenal. And I
mean *all* of them. Cécile de France is really impressive, she plays
her part with great dignity and empathy. She truly carries every scene
she's in, and she will definitely do her country proud. Personally, I
was most affected (both story- and acting wise) by the 'London segment'
of the film. The story of the two young brothers is absolutely
heartbreaking, and the McLaren boys do a superb job at translating this
onto the screen. Anyone who doesn't at least feel a shudder of emotion
when watching their story unfold, well... honestly doesn't have a lot
of heart. I refuse to give away any plot points at all, other than what
I already have. This is really the kind of story you just need to
surrender to in order to really appreciate it. The pacing demands some
patience, but if this is your kind of film it really won't be too much
trouble and you will be greatly rewarded.

The way the story unfolds (the three-way structure, which doesn't come
together until the very end), inevitably evokes comparison to 'Babel',
but honestly, that one cost me a far greater deal of effort to sit
through than Hereafter. But that is entirely personal of course, and
the structure is really the only similarity between the two; the
stories are completely different. And I also think Hereafter is
actually far more accessible than Babel, despite its subject matter.
The stories are told with such tenderness that it didn't actually
bother me at all that they were three separate stories which, until the
end, had nothing to do with each other. They all intrigued me in their
own personal way.

Actually, I could go on and on...

It's been a long time since a film has really touched my heart, but
this one has. I've been thinking about what rating I should give it,
but honestly, I can't think of a single reason why I wouldn't give this
film a 10. Hereafter is a film of true beauty, a real gem. Which,
unfortunately, won't be understood by many people, but who knows...
Perhaps someday, its time will come.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. One of the advantages to not being
dependent upon movie reviews for food and shelter is that there is no
concern for a superstar holding a grudge against me and my opinions.
Make no mistake, director Clint Eastwood is a Hollywood powerhouse and
also one of the most consistently fine filmmakers working today. Still,
no one bats a thousand ... this is a miss, with barely a swing.

The film follows three basic stories. The first revolves around George
Lonegan (Matt Damon), who seemingly has true psychic abilities. The
problem is that George does not wish to have anything to do with his
"powers". The second involves twin brother, Marcus and Jason, who live
with their druggie mom. Things change quickly when Jason is hit and
killed by a truck and Marcus is taken away while his mom rehabs. The
third story has Marie LeLay (Cecile De France) as an investigative
reporter who gets caught in a tsunami while vacationing and has a "near
death experience".

I will not go into detail for any of the three stories other than to
say Jay Mohr plays Damon's money-grubbing brother who wants to take his
talent to the big time; the sadness of the surviving twin is tough to
take at times as he searches for a connection to his dead brother; and
lastly, Marie's near-death brings her closer to life than she ever was
before.

What is most surprising, given the pedigree of Eastwood and writer
Peter Morgan (The Queen, Last King of Scotland) is that this movie and
each of these stories are, for lack of a better word, quite boring. We
really get little insight into any of the characters - other than the
overall sadness each shows regularly. The sub-story with the most
interest involves a brief encounter with a secret research clinic
sporting a Nobel Prize winner. The clinic evidently has much research
and data on this topic.

As you have already guessed, these three stories intersect near the
film's end. This is a ploy that is all too common in Hollywood these
days. I won't give away how it all comes together, but it bordered on
eye-rolling. The film does not depend upon the viewer's beliefs or
understanding, though I personally believe some people do have a
heightened sense of awareness and connection. That's not really what
it's about. It's more about sadness, loneliness and the need for
personal connection while alive.

As usual, Mr. Eastwood has put together a terrific score. And I will
gladly admit that the first 7-10 minutes of the film, including the
tsunami were captivating ... and I loved the connection with Charles
Dickens. That's the best I can offer for the film, and here's hoping
Eastwood's biopic on J Edgar Hoover brings significantly more interest
and entertainment value.
<|_=00=_|>
The pacing of this film did not bother me. Of course, I am over 50, so
I can actually sit still through a slower paced storyline that includes
a number of different characters, without something blowing up, or
someone getting undressed to keep my attention.

What did bother me, perhaps comes from a unique view from others
reviewing the film. As one who has experienced an NDE, I was
disappointed with both the flimsy, and undeveloped view of the female
lead's experience, and the ambiguous way in which her story unfolded.

On one hand, we have a character whose NDE was so life-altering, as to
divert her from her primary job as a political reporter, into someone
who writes a book extolling the difficulty in revealing the truth in
the modern media world about the validity of the NDE experience. The
dust jacket on her book, as well as casual references to her research,
talk about all of the expert testimony that support the overwhelming
facts about NDE experiences, and the correlation between science and
the afterlife. And thenthe movie tells us nothing.

The script (or perhaps what was left after Eastwood edited the script)
simply glosses over anything substantial in the way of research, except
to talk about a Nobel laureate who was ridiculed after revealing his
research. One line...out of over two and a half hours of script.

The question to me, is why start the conversation, if you aren't going
to offer even a small slice of the answers? The research is voluminous.
Those of us who have experienced an NDE know that it is far more than a
chemical reaction to the body starting to shut down. Much more.

But, all we are left with in this movie, is a lead character who
doesn't want to acknowledge his gift, even in the face of those around
him who believe in a "hereafter," more than he does.

Anyone who has experienced an NDE will find this movie sadly
unfulfilling. But perhaps, it will bring many more of us to admit to
what happened, and start a much more meaningful dialogue about the
facts.

As a few of the younger reviewers mentioned, a vast majority of the
audience was over 50. No doubt many of those there were looking for
answers about the "aferlife," for one reason or another. 

It would have been a great chance to tell the world something
substantial. But in the end the movie was a nice idea, with slow
execution...and painfully unfulfilling.
