
As huge fan of the first Donnie Darko I was very excited to see this.
It was such a shame that the original director didn't make this film.
The film is trashy and brings nothing new to the table. It take a
handful of special effects and concepts from the first one and turns it
into a crappy teen flick. The main characters made me cringe and after
the first half an hour I thought this is a disgrace to the original
film. 

This film is not worth wasting your time on. The sad thing is that some
people will see this film without seeing the original Donnie Darko.
This film should never have been made.
<|_=00=_|>
S. Darko is one of many sequels that has no reason to have been created
at all. But even if one puts the original film out-of-mind, and only
look at the sequel on it's own merits, the movie still falls completely
flat.

The film picks up 7 years after the original left off, Samantha Darko
and her friend Corey are on a cross-country trip heading for Los
Angeles. When car problems leave them stuck in a little town by the
name of Conejo Springs (which is populated by a community of horribly
written character's), the girls are forced to mingle with the townies,
and Corey finds herself at home with the boozy losers, while Samantha,
still in pain over the death of her brother (Donnie), finds herself
drawn to the Outsider by the name of Iraq Jack, a disturbed Gulf War
vet who has learned through bizarre visions that the world is coming to
an end on July 4th, 1995.

It seems that Nathan Atkins is a fan of Richard Kelly's work (including
Southland Tales because the character of Iraq Jack seems similar to the
character 'Pilot Abilene' & the end of the world date being on 'July
4th') But Atkins can't write believable dialogue to save his life. And
the director 'Chris Fisher' doesn't seem to understand what made the
original film so good, which was the feeling of being able to connect
with the characters going through something this crazy. And if the
audience doesn't care about the characters on-screen it becomes very
hard for them to feel any effect of the narrative structure.

S. Darko is a hollow cash-grab by producers who must have never
understood what Kelly was going for, but they now control the rights to
the Darko universe, and they're hoping to collect any profit from this
wannabe Donnie Darko replica.
<|_=00=_|>
well where do i begin. i never expected much from this film but i hoped
for so much more than i got. the plot is randomly all over the place
with hints of donnie darko crow bared in to make it relevant to the
original(and probably the idea was to interest fans of the original).
the acting is very wooden, the story is totally rambling and the end is
stupid in so many ways. it seems very much like the makers have gone
way out of the way to appeal to fans of the original, well i am very
much one of those fans and i hated it with more than a passion, i only
found out about this movie about an hour before i sat down to watch it,
i wish i never found out about it.its obvious why it went straight to
DVD. so if you are a fan of the original stay away from this one and
just keep on loving donnie darko.
<|_=00=_|>
As soon as I had heard about this hybrid sequel (and it is a sequel), I
immediately thought that they had gone and done it again, I thought
they just couldn't help themselves, I thought that it was just another
money spinner and it was produced to simply draw in the gradual pulse
of Donnie Darko fans.

After watching it though, it really didn't disappoint, my initial gut
instinct was right. This film follows in the footsteps of other
previous solo films that they just couldn't leave alone.

This film has so many Donnie Darko clich√©'s, it's unbelievable, the
visual effects (which I could have done myself), the stylised music of
the time, the time lapse scenes (which are OVERUSED), the times caped
school scene (with Tears for Fears)... Everything... Everything that
made Donnie Darko the artistic and visually spectacular film it was,
has been transposed to this and it has been transposed, woefully.

They have even cast a couple of Jake Gyllenhaal lookalikes for some of
the parts, and there is NO way this is an accident, because they act so
badly, they must have been cast on their uncannily resemblance to J.G.

It's a bit like when Dennis Leary, Ripped off Bill Hicks, it's rather
sad seeing someone else trying to imitate someone else's joke, you
still laugh at it for a minute, but afterwards, you just want your
money back.

This film is a bit poo, I can't even comment on its "plot", because,
you can see "the plot", has been moulded around the model of Donnie
Darko, you can see that the plot was the last thing they thought about,
which funnily enough, in a Donnie Darko fashion, was probably the first
thing though about in Donnie Darko.

I don't know though, for some strange reason, this feels more like a
bad re-make, than a sequel, and people probably will say something like
"You have watch this movie, independently, don't think that it's a
sequel to Donnie Darko, try to see it for what it is.", okay, that
would be a fair thing to say. But as soon as you release a movie, with
one of the same actors from the original, with the same title as the
original (nearly), with the same freaking emblem as the original,
pfft... well... You can't cook a cookie from a recipe and say it's your
own.

Now, let's get to the acting. The acting is awful, there really doesn't
seem to be any interACTION, between the actors, it just feels as though
they are saying the lines to each other, it really does, there doesn't
feel like there is any co-character development, there doesn't seem to
be any rapport at all, and more importantly, there doesn't seem to a
distinguishable emotion, throughout the movie, honestly, watch it...
The best actor throughout, is one of the actors who hardly has a scene
John Hawkes, from, From Dusk Till Dawn and Identity.

There are also 2 shady looking characters in the film, who don Men in
Black attire. They look like two bloody elephants in a fridge, they
really do, they look SO out of place and so uneasy on the camera, that
they were probably just picked from the town that they filmed in,
either that or they are two tecchies from the production team.

As I've said before, the production looks shoddy, it really does, the
effects from Donnie Darko, looked much better and that was.. what? 8
years ago? And 8 years, is a long time in technological terms. Even in
one scene (this is supposed to be set in 1995), you can see post 95
produced Cars in the background, and an up to date Budweiser sign.

(I wish I could do the time travel thing and go back in time and NOT
watch this film.)

All-in-All, this film is bad, I suppose my advice could be to watch it
with an open mind, but I would be misadvising you, this film is
obviously aimed at making a few quid from Donnie Darko fans and with
that in mind, I just can't get past the audacity of the reason for this
film. It is a much asked question of films, especially sequels, but I
am going to ask it anyway.

Why?

I have given this film a 4/10, and that is primarily because I think
that the lead is hot, she walks around a hot state, with practically
nothing on most of the time and the fact that she looks like Jessica
Biel, that is how skin deep I feel, after watching this film, which is
no doubt, how the producers thought throughout the process of making
this film.

If you are thinking of buying this on DVD for a present for someone you
know who is a Donnie Darko fan, then don't, A. It will disappoint them
and B. It will only spur on, more crap like this.

And as for one KILLER line in the movie...

"Like... Drugs and Anus Sex!" Best line in the whole movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was honestly shocked that this film was actually worse than I was
expecting it to be. It really seems like the writer and director got
hired for the job, watched about half of the first film before they got
bored, and then set off to make something roughly similar. Awful
dialogue, careless (and painfully obvious) anachronisms, and some
jaw-droppingly bad CG effects. I'd be willing to bet they had more
money to make this than Richard Kelly had to work with on the original,
and none of it's up on the screen. Maybe it cost them a lot of money to
license "Hobo Humpin' Slobo Babe" by Whale.

*cough* Anyway, as far as cash-grab sequels go this has to be one of
the all-time worst. A suggestion: tape an episode of "One Tree Hill" or
"Gossip Girl," then put on some red-and-blue 3D glasses, and pretend
one of the cast members is saying stuff like "Remember the future" and
"My farts taste like cherries." Then watch the show on rewind for about
twenty minutes and do it all over again. Repeat for 102 minutes total,
and you've had roughly the same experience. Utterly shameful.
<|_=00=_|>
What? Oh S Darko? I thought you said Donnie Darko. Oh...well that
changes things. Um... Let me take all of that back then.

OK on a serious note there are a lot of posts on here that will say
that they A.) Were huge fans of Donnie Darko B.) Thought the girls were
hot and scantily clad C.) Thought the effects were not so special d.)
Thought this was kind of rehashed 

I agree with all of these statements. I also tried looking at it like
it wasn't involved with the first movie at all and you end up with a no
so brilliant, watered down less than mediocre movie. The problem is
this is a Donnie Darko movie. You have fans who have watched the
original over and over, read countless summaries of not only the movie
but the "mechanics" of how that universe worked and then came to your
own conclusions. You have fans that (myself included) donned (no pun
intended) the skeleton costume and grey hoodie for Halloween. When you
try to add to a cult phenomenon like Donnie Darko, unless you do your
homework, you are going to fall flat.

To me this movie felt like someone watched Donnie a few times, wrote
down some key elements from the movie in a notebook and then tried to
incorporate it into a new movie.

As a huge fan of the original I can't find myself "hating it" in the
same way that I can't hate the Star Wars prequels, so I gave it a 3 out
of 10. I don't want to betray it even though it betrays the original
and its fans. It was by no means one of the worst movies I have ever
seen, but it is a let down of a sequel. I also gave it a 3 because I
understand what this movie was trying to do (involving others in the
timeline plot to change destinies) but I don't think it was done well.
You still have some of the mechanics involved in the first, although
altered. Even the characters are somewhat the same (the sexual deviant
priest vs the sexual deviant motivational speaker, etc)

Even some of the lines used are to try to get a reaction from original
fans. It just comes off as a bad rip off.

When you were done watching the original, you felt as though you wanted
to watch it again and learn more. You felt a sense of witnessing
something special.
<|_=00=_|>
I just had one thought running through my head while watching this . .
.WTF? Seriously, that was pretty much the only thought running through
my head as I watched this movie. Every time something happened, I
thought, WTF does that have to do with anything? And I don't mean that
the movie is mysterious, I mean there's a lot that just doesn't make
any sense.

Okay, Donnie Darko is my favorite movie of all time. Even after
watching Donnie Darko the first time I didn't quite understand
everything that happened in it, I was wondering why certain things
happened and how some things affected other events. So the first time I
watched Donnie Darko I was also wondering: WTF? But even with that I
still understood the idea that Donnie went through this whole movie so
that in the end he would sacrifice himself for the sake of the world.
(It also made me obsessed with Mad World).

Having said that I don't understand what the whole point S Darko really
was. In S. Darko, (Here comes the spoilers, but trust me it may be
better to read about it than to actually waste your time watching it)
the whole thing starts when a dead version of Samantha appears before a
man who goes by "Iraq Jack" and tells him that the world is going to
end. (Another messed up thing about Iraq Jack? He's the grandson to
Roberta Sparrow, what bearing that has to do with anything? I have no
clue).

Anyways, Iraq Jack gets obsessed with the dead version of Samantha (and
even more messed up is that Samantha apparently turns into her dead
self at night when she sees a glowing feather . . .WTF?) So this dead
version of Samantha tells him that the world is going to end, and he
goes about making a mask that is supposed to replicate the look of
Frank the Rabbit from the first movie, apparently she shows him a
drawing that Donnie did of Frank the Rabbit and he creates a mask that
looks like the drawing.

Now . . .There's a problem with that. Okay, Donnie first meets Frank
the Rabbit on the night when the Tangent Universe opens when Frank
calls him outside to avoid being killed by the jet engine. When he goes
back into time to save the world, he goes back to exactly the same
night that he was called outside and therefore the tangent universe
never opens. So, unless he decided to randomly draw Frank the Rabbit
while waiting for the engine to crush him (Oh, and storing it somewhere
in his room where it won't get ruined by the said jet engine), that
drawing shouldn't exist. (Except, of course, the sketches that Frank
had, but I doubt that he knew Samantha well enough to give her a copy).

So anyways, he creates the mask that invariably kills Samantha later on
(which actually Samantha dies twice in this movie, but I won't get into
that too much, because the first time is actually quite pointless). So
now, the world is coming to an end, Samantha is dead, and the dead
version of her springs Iraq Jack from jail so that he could go back
into time and die by the meteorite.

Okay, so they're pretty much replacing Donnie with Iraq Jack (who
happens to be Roberta Sparrows grandson, but really, who cares?).
Here's the problem with that, Donnie was a pretty messed up kid, but
the experiences he goes through in the movie moves the audience to feel
for him when he does actually die. This doesn't work for Iraq Jack,
because quite frankly no one cares about him. Seriously, the only shots
you see of him are him rambling like a lunatic, or him digging through
trash, or other random shots of him talking to the dead Samantha.

No one cares for him, the audience doesn't care about him, so when he
does die (smiling and waving at the meteorite like an idiot) it doesn't
have any effect on the audience. It's like watching someone step on an
insect, no one cares.

That's just the main plot, but then you have some other stuff in the
movie that's just completely inane. Like, for instance, this random
rash that (I don't even remember what the name of the character was,
seriously he was that unimportant) some dude got from the meteorite,
that apparently ate away at his skin and also made him super
aggressive. WTF? Here's another thing that didn't quite make sense.
Samantha has the Philosophy of Time Travel book. . .Why? For those that
don't know or maybe for some reason or another might have forgotten,
Donnie receives the book from Dr. Monnitoff, his science teacher, when
he starts asking him about time travel. His inquiries are all brought
on by the fact that Frank the Rabbit talked to him about time travel,
so if Donnie went back in time to the point where the tangent universe
opened and died, he never received the book. So that means that Dr.
Monnitoff should still have it (or if you go to the Donnie Darko
website you find out that it was actually given to the Library of
Congress Rare Books Division after Dr. Monnitoff died in a car
accident.) These are just some of the things that I've noticed, but
right now I don't think I could continue to rant about this movie. I
think instead I'm going to find Nathan Atkins (the guy that wrote the
screenplay for S Darko) and I'm going to get a refund for what I
believe 2 hours of my life wasted on his piece of crap movie is worth.

Don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
If you thought "How can they make a sequel to Donnie Darko?" then you
should be warned. This movie fails as miserably as you would expect. It
also lacks in the quality of the cinematography of the original. It is
almost unwatchable.

The ending to the original Donnie Darko was absolutely superior. It
absolutely completed the story and left the viewer to ponder the
meaning and philosophical implications of the work quietly to
themselves. There was no antagonist to be reviled from the dead to
fight again and no antagonist, having saved the world once to be
brought out of a failed marriage and rehab somewhere to save the world
again. I do not mind watching movie series even movies such as Saw or
Rocky. But Donnie Darko is not the type of movie that could possibly
lend itself well to a series and it doe not deserve to be put in a
category with those types of movies and the attempt to do so is a
complete failure.
<|_=00=_|>
Before anyone gets on their high horse saying I am one of those Donnie
Darko fans not giving this new movie a chance, I gave this film a
chance and spent the five bucks to rent it straight away after learning
it existed.

The only good thing about this film is that it ended. OK, that may be
harsh, the film's colour and surrounding landscape it unfolds in is
pretty cool but that is it. The only other interesting elements,
whether technical in filming style or plot-wise of this film, were
ripped straight from the first film. What was cool in Donnie Darko is
merely imitation here.

The plot is weak and has logic holes which fail the Donnie
Darko/tangent universe test from the first film. As fans of the
original we cannot help but compare the two films because s.Darko
centres on characters and memories from the first one and rotates on
the principles that drove the original as well. How can you not compare
the two? What almost borders on insulting in this film are the straight
repetitions of acts, scenes and quirky characters from the first one
replicated in this one. I don't want to spoil the film if you are drawn
to sit and endure it but you'll see what I mean, you cannot miss the
weak, formulaic repetition, especially if you are a fan of the
original.

Basically, s.Darko is the same model car like Donnie Darko but has
different paint colour and chokes along on a four-cylinder engine
whereas the first one rumbled along on six.
<|_=00=_|>
Seven years after a jet engine fell on her brother we find Samantha
Darko on a road trip with her best friend Corey as they both want to
escape their former lives. Their car breaks down in a small town in
Utah and they are stuck there until their car can be repaired. Samantha
of course has Darko superpowers and while she sleepwalks her time
traveling zombie ghost girl self wanders around giving advice to the
local nut (a post traumatic war veteran), and warning that the world is
going to end in a few days. There is also the "Mystery of the Missing
Boys" to be solved (spoiler: it's not) and a gaggle of weird characters
to meet; the drunk teen who is brother to one of the missing boys, the
nerd who is infected by a meteorite, the aforementioned crazy vet, the
creepy motel manger, the priest with a shady past and his freaky
girlfriend. The movie rewinds the time line twice so that we can see
things happen differently, with no real logical effect or reason, and
the second time is just a big f*ck you to the viewer who has just
wasted 100 minutes of their lives watching this piece of crap. Richard
Kelly has nothing to do with this sequel (it's directed by Chris
Fisher) but after Southland Tales I'd still like to blame him.
