
"Mission Accomplished"...

Mission: Impossible  Ghost Protocol is the forth film in the franchise
(though first not to acknowledge its place in the title) and sees Tom
Cruise reprising the leading role of the globe-trotting super spy Ethan
Hunt. Throughout the series Hunt has evolved from team player to lone
wolf and now in Ghost Protocol he must become a true leader of a team
that, for the first time, he didn't choose.

The film blasts off into overdrive from the minute the gates open and
rarely lets up, it's one hell of a ride and there's enough action and
gadgets here to please any fan of the spy film genre. The plot is
fairly straightforward; the bad guy obtains the key to the ultimate
weapon and plans to destroy the world with it. Hunt and his team,
working without the support of the IMF, must stop him at all costs. It
has enough twists and turns to keep you engaged but it never gets so
complicated that you risk getting lost while you're immersed in the
mind- blowing stunt sequences. One thing fans of the series will
probably notice this time around is that Hunt is more 'human' when it
comes to the action than he has been in most of the previous outings.
Not everything goes to plan and if he gets hit or falls down it hurts.
Sure he's still a super spy and can do things most mortal men would
never try in a million years but the added vulnerability and
consequences of those actions gone wrong lifts the film to a new level
and is one of the reasons it kept me on board all the way to the end.

If there is anything about this film that let me down a little it was
the absence of a true 'super villain' like we had in MI3. Yes there's a
villain and yes he's dangerous but there is something missing. I guess
I could put it this way  there is no, Joker to Hunt's Batman. In MI3
things get very personal between Hunt and Owen Davian (Philip Seymour
Hoffman) and that jacked up the menace and intensity of the conflict to
a level you'd expect to see in the ultimate villain but in M:I-GP that
level of personal rivalry between protagonist and antagonist was a bit
lacking. It's not that Michael Nyqvist (The Girl with the Dragon
Tattoo) didn't deliver a good performance in the few scenes where he
interacts with Cruise, it's just that there are so few of these moments
that he is, in many ways, almost like another one of his own henchmen
and I mistook him for other characters on a few occasions.

Personally I felt a greater presence and sense of danger from the
female assassin, Sabine Moreau (Lea Seydoux  Robin Hood), a beautiful
yet malicious woman with a cold heartless gaze, completely devoid of
compassion. In my opinion she'd have made a much better leading
villain, especially as her actions do personally effect one of the
team, but despite this little hiccup there is certainly more than
enough obstacles to keep Hunt and his team busy and the audience well
and truly entertained so this is really just nit-picking on my part.

After the relative disappointment of the second Mission: Impossible
film, first time feature director J.J. Abrams (of TV's ALIAS and Lost
fame) injected some much needed heart and soul into the third
installment, expertly balancing a romantic subplot with the high-octane
action sequences all fans demand of such a film. Although Abrams was
not going to direct the fourth film it was reassuring to see that he
was still involved as a producer so I had relatively high hopes that
Ghost Protocol would live up to MI3 and I wasn't disappointed.

Like MI3 before it Ghost Protocol's director's chair is filled with
another first timer of sorts and like the previous chapter that
'gamble' has paid off. Although Brad Bird is not a first time feature
helmer this is his first foray into the world of live action so he
might not seem to be the most obvious choice but there was never any
doubt from either Abrams or Cruise about his talent and potential to
deliver a great film. Bird's impressive previous credits include The
Iron Giant, The Incredibles and Ratatouille (the last two having won
Academy Awards for best Animated Feature Film). Like Abrams, Bird has
also had great success on the small screen as an executive consultant
on the Simpsons and I've been a fan of his work since chancing upon
Family Dog (from Spielberg's 'Amazing Stories' series) in the early
90's.

Simon Pegg (Paul) reprises his role as Benji Dunn from MI3, the
computer whiz behind all the action. Dunn has now graduated from a
'behind the desk cameo' to a fully qualified field officer and as a
result gets a much beefier role in this mission becoming one of Hunt's
rogue team. Pegg's natural comedic timing and likable charm adds a
much-needed element of lightheartedness to the franchise that could
have easily backfired had this role been miscast.

Rounding out the new team are IMF agents Jane Carter (Paula Patton 
Deja Vu) and William Brandt (Jeremy Renner The Hurt Locker), and both
actors deliver solid performances. Carter is as sexy as she is deadly
and Patton slips between these two persona's with ease while Brandt
hides a secret past allowing Renner to show a vulnerability we're not
used to seeing in the roles he normally plays.

Mission: Impossible  Ghost Protocol delivers exactly the type of
entertainment action fans crave and as a result it is perfect popcorn
movie. If you don't enjoy this ride then entertaining you is a mission:
impossible.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a VIP screening of Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol last
night at the Darling Harbor IMAX Theater in Sydney, Australia. Before
the movie started, there was an introduction by Director Brad Bird, and
by actor Simon Pegg where they shared how much they enjoyed making the
film and shooting scenes in the IMAX format.

I won't get into the story too much as I don't want to ruin it for
anyone, but the basic plot is that the Kremlin in Russia is bombed by a
terrorist group and IMF is framed for it. Because of these actions, the
president decides to activate Operation Ghost Protocol, which
essentially means that the entire IMF organisation is disavowed,
meaning Ethan and his team are on their own, and like the tagline says
"No Plan, No Backup, No Choice".

The story I found to be quite solid. Nothing groundbreaking but enough
to keep the interest of your average movie-goer.

The performances were generally good all around. Simon Pegg was
enjoyable as Benji and Tom Cruise is always great as Ethan Hunt. Jeremy
Renner and Paula Patton also gave some great performances. 

The action sequences are where the film really shines. Not all scenes
were great, I thought the bombing of the Kremlin used some very fake
looking CGI which made it more humorous then intense. Also, some scenes
seemed a little too far-fetched and made me think that Tom Cruise must
be made of steel or something. But if you try not to look into this too
much, then chances are you will enjoy the action. The fight scenes were
done very well, incredibly brutal and realistic looking. The sound for
this film really helped as you could almost feel every punch and kick
as well as the explosions. The greatest scene for me was Ethan climbing
the hotel in Dubai, the worlds most tallest building. Shot in IMAX as
well, I almost felt like I was right there next to Ethan looking down
from above. Huge credit goes to Tom Cruise for performing this stunt
himself!

Overall, I found the film very enjoyable. I enjoyed it a lot more than
the 2nd and 3rd entries, but the 1st has always been the best one for
me. I would have given this a perfect 10 but it loses 2 points for the
some of the action scenes being a bit silly and unrealistic.
<|_=00=_|>
The long wait is finally over as Tom Cruise finally returns to the
celluloid to reprise his epic role of the enigmatic IMF agent Ethan
Hunt. The brilliance of Mission: Impossible III was marred by the
infamous sacking of Tom Cruise by Paramount's owner and movie mogul
Sumner Redstone, who blamed Cruise's bizarre sofa-hopping TV antics,
and intransigent support of Scientology for movie's relatively poor
show at the box office that resulted in losses of up to £75million in
revenue. The sordid incident ensured that the wait for the next
installment of the franchise had to be a long one. The half a decade
lull that ensued saw Cruise's career sunk to a new nadir with movies
like Lions for Lambs (2007), Valkyrie (2008), and Knight and Day (2010)
failing to impress at the box office, while his contemporaries and
coevals continued to tumble records at the box office, attaining new
heights of fame and stardom. It is indeed ironic that Cruise's most
impressive show in this interim has been his well-disguised cameo in
Ben Stiller's Tropic Thunder (2008) in which he plays a the
foul-mouthed, hot-headed, half-bald studio executive. But, every coin
has the other part that completes the picture. While the things have
been going a bit rough on the professional front, Cruise's personal
life has finally been witnessing a much needed sense of calmness and
stability. Such stability on the personal front can often lift a
person's morale providing him with a sense of rejuvenation that can
help him fare well in all the facets of life. Tom Cruise's rejuvenated
self is pretty much apparent in the latest installment of the MI
franchise, Mission: Impossible  Ghost Protocol.

Ghost Protocol takes the viewer on a roller coaster of a ride from
Moscow to Dubai, all the way to Mumbai, never allowing a breathing
space, keeping him on the edge of the seat throughout. MI  GP is
indeed the quintessential action extravaganza that the ardent lovers of
the genre perpetually anticipate to devour upon in order to satiate
their ever growing hunger for unremitting action and adventure. Ethan
Hunt is back in all his glory with some newly added dimensions to his
old daredevilry that had established him as the greatest contemporary
to Ian Fleming's larger than life human incarnate. As seen with Bond in
Casino Royale, the key men behind the MI franchise have made conscious
efforts to make the caricature of Hunt more vulnerable to danger and
crises, and hence more human. MI  GP delivers everything that an
action-movie lover craves for: suspense, intrigue, passion,
daredevilry, razzmatazz, and much more. The adrenaline filled action is
well complemented by the dazzle of the geeky gadgets on display and it
is this synergy that makes MI  GP an incredibly sublime experience.
The tremendous reputation that the high octane franchise carries meant
the newly appointed director Brad Birdmostly renowned for his
animation flicks The Incredibles and Ratatouillehad his work cut out
for him. Brad Bird has indeed been up to the task and has lived well to
the expectations of Cruise and the entire production team led by J.J.
Adams, who directed the third movie of the series back in 2006.
Mission: Impossible  Ghost Protocol is packed with a plethora of
action sequences that includes a shootout in Budapest, an escape
sequence from a Moscow Jail, a sandstorm chase in Dubai, and a classic
brawl in an automated parking garage in Mumbai. However, the sequence
that stands out is the one in which Tom Cruise climbs the tallest
building in the world, Burj Khalifa by clinging to it from the outside
using suction gloves, giving the Spiderman a run for his money. 

After the splendidly executed siege of the Vatican in the third
installment, Ethan and his IMF team are on the lookout for some
classified information pertaining to a Russian extremist Kurt
Hendricks, which takes their quest to Kremlin. The covert mission goes
awry as their plan is sabotaged by the personal intervention of
Hendricks, which turns the tables on Cruise and his team rendering them
sequestered and helpless. The questionable events that unfold at
Kremlin, forces the US President to invoke the Ghost Protocol leading
to the disavowal of IMF. Ethan and his team, which includes the
computer geek Benji Dunn (Simon Pegg), agents Jane Carter (Paula
Patton) and William Brandt (Jeremy Renner), despite their severe
handicap are the only hope left at preventing the diabolical duo of
Hendricks and his stalwart Wistrom from fulfilling their demonic
mission of global destruction through a nuclear war. Simon Pegg as
Benji is spot on with his persiflage, and his nonchalance adds a much
needed levity to the otherwise tense plot. Paula Patton as Jane Carter
is a treat to the sore eyes: her imperial gait, upright posture,
predatory agility, dusky complexion, steamy mystique, athletic built,
curvaceous figure, and apparent haughtiness make her an object of envy
for males and females alike. Her ethereal presence undoubtedly leaves a
lasting impression on the viewer. The introduction of Jeremy Renner as
William Brandt adds another layer of intrigue to the plot of MI  GP.
Brandt's enigmatic part allows Renner to depict a wide array of
emotions that his previous roles couldn't offer. The over-hyped
inclusion of veteran Indian actor Anil Kapoor in the MI  GP cast is
undoubtedly movie's greatest disappointment, especially from the
perspective of Indian cineastes, as the actor fails to make an
impression during his ephemeral performance.

Overall, MI  GP has managed to raise the bar for the Action genre.
Indian movie-makers, who have recently started to delve into the genre,
can look to take a note or two out of MI  GP in order to iron out the
usual glitches. Despite the occasional lack of coherence in the plot,
MI  GP works quite well at almost all the levels and promises to be a
great entertainment. 8/10

www.apotpourriofvestiges.com
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a fan of Tom Cruise as a person and that sometimes influences
my opinion on a film. Even with this point in the back of my mind I
must say that Tom Cruise still got it. He's a fantastic actor who
doesn't even chose to have a stunt double in MI4. I couldn't even think
of trying some of these. Now to the main film. You may think it's going
to be just like all the other action movies and all the other Mission:
Impossible parts. But with every new part of the series it gets even
more spectacular: the equipment is beyond imagination, the locations
are mind blowing, the secret plans are super clever, the characters are
cool and smart. Also the trailer was that good that I just wanted to
see this at the movies and couldn't wait for it to be released. I
haven't seen any MI film at the movies and this was definitely a great
decision. The best action film in years.

I'm giving it a 10/10 because there was nothing I didn't like about
this movie and it was worth every cent!
<|_=00=_|>
... and he's climbing the tallest building in the world, the Burj
Khalifa of Dubai. Not only he's ascending the super-tall structure,
he's going to infiltrate the Kremlin in Moscow, chase people in a huge
sandstorm, and of course ... save the world. 

The story: the IMF is accused for bombing the Kremlin, although they
were not actually the perpetrators. Due to this, the IMF is shut down
and "Operation Ghost Protocol" is launched with Ethan Hunt (Tom
Cruise), Jane Carter (Paula Patton), Benji Dunn (Simon Pegg), and
William Brandt(Jeremy Renner), a group of 4 people being what is left
of the IMF. Together, they find that there was another person behind
the bombing code-named "Cobalt" and he has a plan to ignite a nuclear
war which he believes would begin the next stage of human evolution. 

From beginning to end, I was hooked by all the action scenes. The
action scenes and all the moves are spectacular. The hand-to-hand
combats, the chase scenes, the gunfights are very well-done and
spectacular. The cinematography was excellent and one of the best in
years. 

Of course, the Burj Khalifa scene was the trademark of the whole film.
Ethan Hunt climbing the Burj Khalifa was thrilling enough. But with a
limited time, having trouble going back down, and running around and
swinging around the structure just quickens the pace of the story and
makes the scene very stylish. This scene is just outstanding and will
be one of the highlights of the film. 

The acting was very well-done. After 5 years of absence in the series,
Tom Cruise still got his spy skills here. Paula Patton's bad girl
character is very well-played. Simon Pegg as the clumsy-but-genius
Benji Dunn was amazing. Jeremy Renner as the so-called-analyst-but-
actually-IMF-agent William Brandt was stunning and great. The
performances of the actors/actresses are very strong and convincing.

I love the technology used in this film. They are just unreal. A device
that lets you float using magnetic attraction. A device that copies the
scenery behind and displays it into a screen that allows you to deceive
other people who are looking at the screen. A suit that turns into a
casual jacket when you wear it inside-out. All of these devices are
creatively made and looking at them being operated is just so fun. And
be sure to see the amazing BMW Vision (a futuristic, BMW concept car)
in a scene set in Dubai. (Also, this movie is keen about BMWs.)

The mission tactics are also ingenious. The tactics are very smart and
are very entertaining. How they create diversions in the most unlikely
situations and the scenes involving the composition of a plan keep the
film in a constant quick pace and increases the suspense of the film.
When they take their tactics into action, that's where they get more
interesting. 

The comedy here adds up the fun in this film. Sometimes, prolonged
scenes of action are just too noisy and make the movie feel plain. But
not here. The comedy scenes here act as intervals between so we don't
always see long, noisy, and bloated action scenes (major trouble of
"Transformers") and make sure that we have a perfect dose of both. 

All these elements are very well-done and balanced and together form a
suspenseful, fast-paced, and thrilling, yet funny action ride worth to
experience. I think we should thank genius director Brad Bird for
successfully revitalizing the movie series. This movie is just
brilliant and I think it's because of Bird's genius directing. 

Final Verdict: With fast-paced directing by Brad Bird and exciting
action sequences, yet with funny moments, this movie is a thrilling
ride worth to experience. 

Rating: 10/10

Thanks for reading my review on "Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol".
I hope this review is useful.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at a London IMAX press preview screening. 

Clearly JJ Abram's mission impossible, should he choose to accept it,
is to lead a talented team to resurrect a declining franchise and
re-ignite it with renewed vigour and a very high dosage of fun and
entertainment.

I'm glad to say, mission highly accomplished.

Brad Bird's first time direction of real actors (must have been a shock
when they talked back at him) exhibits the same zestful energy and fun
that we got from his animated films such as The Incredibles. Though not
with the subtlety of his Iron Giant but this is Mission Impossible, so
we cant expect that kind of subtlety here. 

Story is outrageously OTT and thats how it should be for a franchise
that violently throws plausibility out of the window with much
deliberation. Not much else to say about the story apart from the fact
that it can easily be translated into a Bond movie. We're in that kind
of villainous territory here and it is fun.

The action sequences are inventive, relentless, fun and tense. Some
scenes are filmed in IMAX format and when seen on an IMAX screen, are
breathtaking and immersing.

As well as Brad Bird's energised and retro direction, the cast really
sparkles too. Cruise rocks as an action stunt hero. In fact more so now
than he ever did. His traditional self stunt work in this series
continues to impress particular in his skyscraper scenes. There is also
more playfulness and assuredness in a role he has now worn into nicely.
Simon Pegg gets a delightfully big promotion to join Hunt's team making
us laugh throughout the movie. And Paula Patton adds an elegant
sexiness to the MI team missions. Another new addition to the team,
Jeremy Renner also gels smoothly into the squad.

This film has drastically rejuvenated the franchise that I now highly
anticipate further adventures of Ethan Hunt and his new vibrant team,
equally or even more so than the next James Bond movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A very much expected X-Mas premiere disappointed me very much.

The plot is primitive, except for the first 15-20 minutes most actions
are predictable with virtually no drama. Action scenes are made with
some care but are very mechanical.

The Burj Dubai (Khalifa) was where we expected some stunning
blood-freezing action and there it was the action but blood did not
freeze... The Moab scene in MI2 was one -- I clearly remember the
cinema audience holding their breath, and one cannot stop comparing
these two...

Those who go to IMAX version will be specifically disappointed when
they realize only few sequences are filmed in IMAX format whereas
during the rest of the movie you see coarse film grain and other
low-res artefacts of a regular movie format blown to a huge IMAX screen
as ... Why is that, dear Tom & Brad, the budget did not allow more? 

In the absence of real or virtual drama the whole thing becomes flat
and boring -- I wish they considered hiring Robert Towne again, for
example... .

It is not very often that some characters are so irrelevant to the plot
that а movie could live without them. Despite superb acting of Mashkov
(russian cop Sidorov) I really miss why this character is in the movie
at all ! Take him out and... nothing changes ! 

Paula Patton (Jane) - I am sorry but Jane is as "persuading" in the
role of a field agent as Halle Berry was in JB Arctic story.

I'd better stop now and will not go into smaller details (read-
spoilers). The nice side is that at least some of the sequences ARE
filmed in IMAX, the opening soundtrack seems to have been re-recorded
and is excellent, there are some nice areal IMAX shots of Dubai and
Mumbai at night. Most of Moscow seems to have been shot in Prague or
Wroclaw and does look very fake.

What else - Tom plays as he usually do but because of the primitive
plot and dull screenplay there is nothing left to remember or comment.
Knight & Day is what You remember, not MI-4.

I personally believe any review/rating higher that 7/10 for this one is
a 90% fake ("stimulating") whereas 8-10/10 ones are 103% such.
<|_=00=_|>
Summer is usually the time for big loud action-packed blockbusters like
this, but let us tell you right at the start that none of the bombast
we've seen this summer compares to what lies in store for you in the
fourth big-screen adaptation of the 1970s television series. This is
hands-down the best action film this year, boasting some of the most
exhilarating action ever captured in a long while. It also restores Tom
Cruise's marquee value as an action star, and we dare attest that any
naysayer to Cruise's ability to resurrect the franchise he almost
drowned will be silenced once they see what he does on screen.

Indeed, the last 'Mission: Impossible" from 'Alias' and 'Lost' creator
J.J. Abrams was then easily the best of the series- though all that
positive word about it couldn't quite triumph the bad press surrounding
its star and producer Cruise's erratic behaviour. So 'MI3' ended up
hitting a nadir for the franchise at the box-office, and Cruise's star
wattage has never since fully rebounded. Trying to restore its lustre
wasn't a mission impossible, but it was going to be an uphill task as
well- if not only for the fact that it had to better J.J. Abrams' solid
work. 

That gamble has however paid off with an unlikely bet- choosing
animation hero Brad Bird from 'The Iron Giant' and 'Ratatouille' to
make his first live-action film. Bird is also of course the director of
Pixar's 'The Incredibles' and there is certainly the same pulsating
energy running through every frame of 'MI4'. From the very beginning,
Bird places his definitive stamp on the series with a classy opening
that sees IMF operative Ethan Hunt breaking out of a Russian prison.
That sequence, which combines Dean Martin's 'Ain't That A Kick in the
Head' with Steve McQueen's 'The Great Escape', is carefully executed
and fluidly filmed- and both are signature attributes of Bird's style
throughout the movie. 

No 'Mission Impossible' film would be complete without the exotic
locales, fancy gadgets and big explosions- but there is a certain
finesse by which Bird assembles all these elements together into one
package. So even as the setting moves from Russia to Dubai to Mumbai,
even as the gadgets grow increasingly fanciful (one especially nifty
device is a nifty retina-based mirror-like screen) and even as the
explosions get more colossal (how about blowing up the Kremlin?), Bird
never lets the adventure get frenetic, alternating confidently between
quiet tension and full-blown action to keep you on the edge of your
seat. 

Riveted is what you'll be as Hunt and his team infiltrates the Kremlin
to steal some classified intel about the Russian extremist Kurt
Hendricks (Swedish actor Michael Nyqvist from 'The Girl with the Dragon
Tattoo'), then hoodwinks two sets of bad guys just one floor apart atop
the Burj Khalifa, and then races against time literally in the crowded
streets of Mumbai to stop Hendricks from precipitating an all-out
nuclear war between the United States and Russia. Each elaborate
setpiece is in itself a spectacle, and watching them unfold one after
another quite simply takes your breath away. 

But the most awe-inspiring- and worthy of singular mention- setpiece is
Cruise's vertiginous climb up the glass exterior of the Burj Khalifa
using suction gloves. It is Cruise himself way up on the 130th floor,
and the authenticity of it shows in every second of Robert Elswit's
breathtaking cinematography that is enough reason alone to catch this
in IMAX. It is even more heart-stopping than you can imagine, not least
when Cruise is left dangling with just one glove after the other
malfunctions. Nothing else quite comes close to the sheer dizzying
excitement of this sequence- not even the intensely gripping race-
against-time climax with a good-old fistfight between Hunt and
Hendricks in an automated parking garage.

Yes, Cruise isn't one to rest on his laurels, and at the age of 49, the
extent to which he commits to perform the stunts in this movie by
himself is simply amazing. When he is not attempting some death-defying
move in the air or for that matter on the ground, Cruise uses his
immense charisma to deliver a slickly captivating performance as the
leader of the disavowed IMF. He also enjoys great chemistry with his
supporting players- the tech whiz Benji Dunn (Simon Pegg), the tough
sexy female player Jane Carter (Paula Patton) and last but not least
the enigmatic analyst William Brandt (Jeremy Renner). The banter
between Cruise and Pegg is particularly enjoyable, the source of most
of the movie's comic relief.

Their wisecracks may at first seem at odds with the gravity of the
situation at stake, but ultimately these lighter moments provide a
light zesty touch that ensures the movie doesn't sink into its own
self- seriousness. Besides these instants of levity, the script by Josh
Appelbaum and Andre Nemec works hard to spin an intriguing espionage
plot amidst the action set-pieces that harks back to the Cold War-
though admittedly their most glaring failure is in creating a more
compelling villain than simply another madman bent on world
destruction. They fare much better drawing links between this
instalment and J.J. Abrams' last, especially in explaining Hunt's
absence from duty as well as Brandt's mysterious past.

Still, story isn't its strong suite, and Bird knows that well enough to
keep most of his cards close and revealing just enough clues to keep
his audience hooked. But the 'Mission Impossible' films were always
going to be about delivering thrilling blockbuster entertainment, and
it is in this regard that Bird truly shines. To say that the action on
display is exhilarating is merely an understatement, and let us
reassure you that the extra bucks you will shell for an IMAX ticket is
worth every additional cent. It is quite simply the best 'Mission
Impossible' entry yet, and the best action film you'll ever see this
year.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a fun movie to watch; much better than I anticipated. Usually
sequels have totally run their course by the fourth time, but not so
here. In fact, this might even be the best of the Mission Impossible
films.

It has a good mixture of interesting action scenes, suspense, drama,
humor, great scenery of Venice, Italy, and fine acting. Nothing is
overdone to the point of being too much and, as most MI films go, it
has the normal espionage-type intrigue to figure out.

It's just plain entertaining. Kudos to all: the director, the actors
and the special-effects and cameraman. A superb job done all around.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll skip the details about the plot because you'll find it elsewhere
and go straight to the weaknesses.

There is no doubt that the Mission Impossible series has always been an
out and out action series and you never could expect anything more than
that. However even going in with the same expectations I must say I
came out disappointed. A lot of people will tell you that the action
scenes were amazing and indeed they were. I can imagine how much hard
work went into making those shots possible like the one on the outside
of the Burj Khalifa and the one in the parking lot in Mumbai. But there
is a fine line between making amazing stunts and making improbable
stunts and MI4 erred on the wrong side more often than not.

I can start by pointing out things that Tom Cruise did that would even
make Batman proud, for example falling from a good 10 feet and hitting
your face onto a steel bar and coming out unscathed. there are many
more but I don't want to point them all out and look like Im
nitpicking.

Coming to the story line I must say I actually groaned when I figured
out this would be yet another "Russia attacks US with nuclear missiles
because of some misconception" kind of a story. Also there wasn't
enough detailing given which left holes the size of craters in the
plot.

On the plus side however is the cinematography which is spectacular.
From Kremlin to Dubai to Mumbai, the cities have been captured
beautifully which made it feel more like a Travel show. the acting is
decent too.

However I must say I did not watch it on an IMax screen and I guess
that did take away some charm.

So finally I'd say you can watch it if you're easily amazed. But
honestly I'd watch the Bourne series again instead of MI.
