
I have to be honest here, I am barely ever compelled to come on the web
and write a review for a movie with a negative thrust. For one thing, I
watch all types of films, even the so-called no budget or low budget
films that other people will stay clear from. In fact, just this year,
I have seen all the Sundance NEXT films, some at the Sundance premiere
in January, and some, like BELLFLOWER, only recently. I feel the need
to clear that first, so that I'm not accused of a negative bias for
ultra small films. 

I had heard the buzz of BELLFLOWER at Sundance, and I missed it, and my
trip to SXSW was too brief to catch, so, I waited patiently for the
theatrical. Up until then, I had read many things about the movie,
plenty of positive reviews, and was pretty enthralled by the trailer. I
should have been a little more cautious on the get go, seeing that even
the trailer was a little fishy. You know, it was extremely light on
substance, but full of those great pull quotes from the likes of Peter
Travers, the king of whoring a few positive lines for maximum effect.
And, of course, the reviews themselves were mostly copies of one
another, with a great chunk of prose spent on context based stuff like,
"the film cost 17,000", or "they made there own camera's", and even,
"he wrote about his own break-up". This stuff is mostly about
justification and the press angle, so, I'm not going fault the work on
that.

But, lets get to the actual film itself, and how this particular film
outright compelled me to come on the web and give my two cents.
Basically, the film is in essence, a break up movie. The lead character
Woodrow, played here by the director himself is a typical "disaffected"
young man, who, along with his best friend spends his days drinking,
smoking and with the country boy craftsmanship of building "cool"
stuff. They are seen spending time blowing stuff up at the beginning.
Soon, they go out to what I assume is a dive bar, and low and behold, a
cricket eating contest (in LA mind you), when we meet our lead female,
the narrative conflict of the movie. We see Woodrow and soon to be lady
friend Milly engage in eating crickets in slow mo, while a "cool" music
track plays in the background. This is the essence of the movie. These
bits of music video montage scenes are in my mind, the only respectable
albeit very thin moments of the film, especially the final moments.
They come and go in-between some of the most banal, and base scenes I
have seen in years.

After this, Woodrow picks up Milly for a first date, and she proposes
they go and eat at the most disgusting restaurant around, and guess
what, Woodrow has a suggestion, but its located in Texas. So, what
happens next, shoot, they go to Texas. The film carries on in this
vein. I can go on, but even writing about it gets tiresome.

Anyways, to shorten this up, the relationship heads south, but for no
reason other then the fact that Milly tells Woodrow that she is going
to hurt him. And then she hurts him. Yup, thats it, because things go
bad in relationships, but the audience is left to just assume things
happen. The problem is, we are not lead to care any bit about them. All
this heartbreak stuff doesn't add up, when you don't buy any of it. The
film then continues to jump ahead and behind after an accident. And
then things get violent, but in a pretty safe way. The film basically
alludes to everything, and always in an extremely swallow, hey look at
me mom kind of way. But heck, they built a "totally sweet ride brah" .
With the finale going straight into film school cope out mode. I won't
say anymore, so that I don't spoil the twist.

As you can tell, I did not like this movie. It felt as clich√© as could
be. I did not like the characters, all of whom became increasingly
annoying. I did not like the writing. I did not like the acting, which
goes into B level and below many, many times. And the visual style gets
pretty dang boring after awhile. Note to some reviewers; spend some
time on Vimeo, or Tumblr, and yeah, you got the visual aesthetic this
strives for. Basically, everybody is doing that anyway, and really,
swallow depth of field and especially tilt shift is boring when used
for no reason other then, "to look cool". Which apply describes the
hipster culture itself. It yells to be looked at, but on closer
inspection, you realize that all its desires are superficial. Thats all
it knows.

And that sums up the film for me. Everything done for effect, and
nothing done to strive for a deeper reading. And thats the issue,
because its not even entertaining. In fact, its altogether boring, but
in the American style of boring, and not in the European,
sophisticated, by design way boring. 

I guess maybe its utility is best served as a sort of Hollywood calling
card for the troupe, and for that, maybe it succeeds. But for something
that I have to pay money to watch, no. And truth be told, if this was
for free, I would probably pass as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Bellflower is an interesting film because even in it's flaws it kind of
speaks to the kind of film that it is. Unfortunately for me though,
that doesn't mean crap when the flaws are so blatant and intrusive. The
film starts off interestingly, a really in-your-face turn back the
clock montage that takes us to the beginning of our characters, two
wild twenty-something youths who spend their free time (which it seems
is all they have for some untold reason) preparing for their Mad Max
vision of the end of the world. In their mind it's perfectly normal to
spend their time building flamethrowers and tricking out muscle cars,
which is so dumb and idiotic and an absolute perfect depiction of men
at this time in their life.

The first hour takes a relatively standard approach to following these
guys, but despite some pretty awful amateur performances and awkwardly
obvious pieces of dialogue, it had a certain charm for me.
Writer/director/star Evan Glodell gives an aesthetic feeling that was
off-putting at first -- the focus falls off every so often, flecks off
dirt come up into the lens -- once I settled into it I really began to
embrace the tone he was going for. However once the film started to
really get a rhythm going it decided to awkwardly jump forward a period
of time (you can tell because the main character has a beard now!) it
really caves in on itself.

It was going along smoothly but then decided to move the plot forward
into more serious territory and then none of it worked anymore. Those
bad performances became worse as the scenes progressed further and
further into laughably horrendous melodrama with some of the most
obvious and artificial character progressions and dialogue stretches
I've seen. The film spirals down and down until it gets to it's last
two chunks where I was just hoping they would clip the wings off and
stop tarnishing the promise it once showed. There's a disastrous
fifteen-minute sequence that felt absolutely worthless even before we
find out that it actually is worthless, followed by the final act which
just nonsensically rambles on for what seems like an eternity.

Ultimately, it felt like this was a premise that would have worked
great as a short feature, but in stretching it out to something
full-length Glodell really destroyed everything he had going for him.
Still, despite ultimately being a failure, I think Glodell shows some
promise here as a filmmaker and I'll be curious to see what he does
next.
<|_=00=_|>
When David Fincher was preparing to shoot Fight Club, he briefly
considered dispensing with stars and a big budget to shoot the film
guerrilla style on digital video. Had he gone that route, the results
would have been something along the lines of Bellflower, an audacious,
flame- spewing, spit in the face of everything stale and conventional
about modern cinema. Shot on a nothing budget using a camera that
director/writer/star Evan Glodell built from odds and ends, Bellflower
is a stark critique of characters lost and struggling in the sun soaked
wastelands of Southern California. To go into detail would certainly
ruin the joy of discovery this brutal movie has to offer. Suffice to
say it is a love story like no other, chock full of drunken brawls,
flame- throwers, and a muscle car named Medusa (also built from scratch
by Glodell). Personally, I think this is one of the most important
movies that's come out in recent memory. With a raw, ugly beauty
reminiscent of the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre, the sparse
immediacy of films like Two Lane Blacktop, and David Lynch's ability to
make the banal nightmarish and horrifying, Bellflower incinerates the
very notion of narrative filmmaking, redefining it on its own terms. If
indie filmmaking is meant to push the envelope, this movie leaves that
envelope charred and twisting in the wind.
<|_=00=_|>
We saw a few movies at the Seattle film fest and this was the worst of
what we saw. I like the premise a lot but the actual story does not
live up to its potential. It was directed amateurishly and worse is the
cinematography. I know others like this but I don't get it. I thought
the acting was weak and over-the-top in some parts. I really wanted to
like this film but after 30 minutes I was so bored I couldn't take it.
My wife wanted to leave but I gave this movie every chance and stuck it
out. For those who think there's some sort of nuclear blast; there is
none. There is Apocalypse or anything of the sort - it's just a
character study and a boring one at that.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of this movie is so evocative and brilliant, that what the
director/writer actually gives you is even more of a disappointment.
Don't be deceived by the publicity. This is by no means an apocalyptic
melodrama, full of flame throwing hipsters wreaking havoc everywhere
they go. FAR FROM IT. This is a vapid mumblecore boyfriend/girlfriend
drama with some digressions that barely graze the original premise.
Almost the entire movie consists of the very slow charting of how two
couples find each other, couple, uncouple, recouple, etc. It's
completely generic at that level.

Spoiler alert below!

Also, I totally lost respect for the director/writer when, after
finally showing us something shocking and violent - most the main
characters murder each other or commit suicide - all this turns out to
have just been a revenge fantasy in the mind of Woodrow, and it turns
out none of it actually happened. How cowardly.

The movie has great pretensions to rocking our world, but turns out to
be entirely timid and conventional. All the expressionist
cinematography in the world doesn't make it interesting or original.
Skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got out of the screening of this movie at the Independent Film
Fest of Boston. Bellflower is a visually stunning movie and is sure to
make help make the career of the star/director and a few other members
of the supporting cast.

The basic premise is that two friends decide to future-proof themselves
by creating weaponry designed for ruling a potential post-apocalyptic
wasteland. They figure that if Mad Max has taught us anything it is
that whoever has the most badass weapons will end up on top.

Evan Glodell, Jessie Wiseman, Tyler Dawson and Rebekah Brandes turn in
impressive performances. I am sure that we will be seeing plenty of
Jessie Wiseman.

The film was shot on handmade cameras that the director built which
allowed him to create amazing tilt-shift visuals. All of the gadgets
featured in the film were also built by the director for the movie.
Filming happened over the course of 3 years on a meager budget of only
$17,000, an amazing feat.

If this movie is playing at a local festival you need to go see it
ASAP. I'm pretty sure that there will be plenty of buzz surrounding the
film once it gets a wider release.
<|_=00=_|>
"I just don't need none of that Mad Max bullsh*t!" I gave this film a
try on account of several good reviews, but I was seriously
disappointed. Far from being fresh, the camera effects were excessive,
giving you the feeling a toy camera filter had been added to every
frame. The characters were thoroughly unappealing, with no depth. It
was hard to find the patience to sit through all the screen time that
was devoted to their self-absorbed, hipster fantasies. The emotional
response and life and death consequences late in the film seem
extremely disproportionate to what caused them- a breakup in a
relationship that was boring, shallow, and doomed from the start. The
constant hipster fantasy elements attempt to mask what is essentially a
very hollow movie.
<|_=00=_|>
How come after watching this odd fantasy called "BELLFLOWER," I get the
impression the Director/Writer/Star Evan Glodell was on the ground,
back to a telephone pole while inhaling a massive amount of pot upset
he hadn't come up with a title for his film and the movie had been in
the can. He can barely lift his spinning head enough to see the street
sign: 'BellFLower' and he exclaims: "Oh, man, that's it. Dude. It's
art, bro. F'ng art."

I can't explain this trip of a movie's title other than that scenario.
It starts off as a dead-weight Mumblecore film, but at least in our
reality and slowly transforms into a dark haze as if the audience was
just as stoned.

We have two loser BFF's who's obsession with Mad Max, his flamethrowin'
dude car and the possibility of an impending apocalypse goes a tad bit
far. In fact, we really don't know if either of these adult males work
¬ñ we only know they're pimping their Road Warrior car named Medusa and
their flamethrower and they like to hit on girls. One does hook up with
one and things go sour from there. Sorta. Kinda.

Admittedly, the film's odd style, jumping all over the place and the
dead-end lives you witness leave an impression, but since barely a
thing happens worth repeating nor is there any point, it's not
recommended.

Rating: 2 out of 5 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
I almost didn't watch this movie because its IMDb plot summary
(something about 2 guys building a monster car in preparation for the
apocalypse) made it sound like Beavis & Butthead vs. Road Warrior. That
couldn't be further from the truth.

True there are a couple explosions, flame throwers, firearms, a few
pints of spilled blood, and a super souped-up Buick Skylark 1972 that
would make James Bond hop on his tricycle and pedal furiously away. But
essentially this is a love story. The apocalypse here is not a literal
one but a personal one. Writer/director/principal actor Evan Glodell
says he wrote it while in the painful haze of a bad breakup. Indeed, I
would say this is one of the best post-breakup films to watch, because
it perfectly captures the feeling of emotional desolation, hope &
obsession associated with that mixed bag we call "love".

The story centers on 2 friends Woodrow (Evan Glodell) and Aiden (Tyler
Dawson) who, contrary to their pastime of blowing things up, are NOT
Beavis & Butthead type morons. They're just a couple of
average-to-nerdy 20-somethings who live life one day at a time on the
outskirts of LA. They drink a lot of beer. They try to pick up girls at
the local bar (unsuccessfully most of the time). And when all else
fails, they build the car of their dreams.

Enter Milly (Jessie Wiseman) who becomes Woodrow's love interest. In a
very sweet way, Woodrow & Milly develop a charming relationship. But
then things get complicated. Very complicated. I'm talking flame
thrower complicated. The 2nd half of the movie is a suspenseful, tense,
explosive ride that comes to a powerful climax with great, passionate
acting.

The story is from Woodrow's point of view, the male point of view.
Female characters seem peripheral, and I figured the IMDb demographic
would show "Bellflower" to be preferred by males. Surprise: it's evenly
split down the middle. Perhaps it's because, even though it's from a
male perspective and has a lot of "manly" things like beer, whiskey,
guns and cars that slurp a gallon of gas to pull out of the driveway,
it's still a very sensitive film that can be appreciated by anyone. It
exposes the vulnerabilities of heartbreak, the thrill of obsession, and
the nature of friendship. And these things are not gender-specific.

A word about the cinematography: wow. As the story becomes increasingly
complicated, the visuals become more expressionistic and hallucinatory.
This is the masterwork of Joel Hodge, director of photography. Visuals
are often very striking, with heavy color saturation, hazy filters and
occasional lens grit, making it a very dreamlike presentation. I read
that the cameras they used were mostly home made, scrapped together
from cheap parts... much like the car "Medusa" which was actually built
for this film. "Bellflower" was nominated for the 2012 Independent
Spirit Award for Best Cinematography, but lost to the blockbuster
Academy Award Winning "The Artist".

Another highlight: the music. Beginning with a dark acoustic guitar &
vocal piece, the film keeps the soundtrack minimal (no melodramatic
symphonies here) and toward the end throws in some powerful trip-hop,
industrial house stuff. I didn't recognize any of the bands on the
soundtrack, but it felt similar to maybe Jeff Buckley for the
acoustic/vocal pieces and Portishead or AWOL Nation for the heavy
stuff. Undeniably cool stuff.

"Bellflower" is an artistic, slow moving film that keeps gaining
momentum all the way to its roller-coaster finale. There aren't any
popular movies I can compare it to. But if you've seen the indie flicks
"Entrance" (2012) or "The Tracey Fragments" (2007), or my favorite
"Buffalo 66", then you can expect a similar off-kilter approach to
filmmaking that makes this a challenging and ultimately satisfying
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Bellflower is a very good low budget film. Evan Godell wrote, directed
and stars as Woodrow in this movie. The acting was a bit poor but the
screenplay was excellent. This is what I would use as an example of a
movie that has an excellent plot and horrible acting but completely
pulls it off. Much like Medusa, the acting is hard to look at during
some parts of the film but when looking at the film you see something
that is incredibly beautiful that will ultimately end up harming you in
some way. Bellflower is extremely dark and will get under your skin for
days. From start to finish Bellflower is a visual work of art. If the
acting were better, I could see this being one of the best dark films I
have ever seen. Unfortunately, the acting is so bad that it is very
tough to get past. This has to be one of the best low budget efforts I
have ever seen and should be seen by any aspiring director. Evan
Glodell's Medusa ultimately becomes the star of this film because the
vehicle provides the best performance and it by far one of the most
amazing works of art on wheels. Who doesn't love a car with a flame
thrower for exhaust pipes?!
