
Animation is spectacular, great setting in the Scottish Highlands.
Voice acting is above par. However, this movie is not among the top
Pixar films, by far. I felt the sickening presence of Disney all over
the film -- weird politically correct preaching, overdone action
scenes, and generally random and weird plot.

The story is really disappointing. What exactly makes her 'BRAVE'??
They should have named the movie 'PETULANT'. She's selfish, and the
entire plot is about how she can get out of the results of her
selfishness while remaining selfish. The magic feels out of place, lots
of wasted scenes, and the whole bear thing was just plain annoying
after a while.

Not a lot of funny moments, and generally boring! I was really looking
forward to this movie, and I did not like it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is very beautifully done, the artists, great job. The
storyline was terrible. It was another balled up Disney movie that
seemed like it was just trying to fit in every single cliché and Disney
trademark as it could. It starts as it should, epic. 

Then out of nowhere the epic Celtic music begins and the female vocals
come in. I immediately wanted to leave. The girl I was with, also
seemed exhausted with this as well. It didn't need that, it made the
film go from really cool to chick flick.

Little did I know, it was going to get worst. The trailer explained the
movie as a hero rising, and the changing of fate. Who doesn't like
that. So she rides off mad at her mom, finds a witch and requests her
fate to be changed. She is granted her wish and her mom is turned into
a bear. Yes, a bear. So the entire movie, basically is the main girl
trying to mend her moms relationship and turn her back into a human.
Well, that's not hard, because the love is already there. She basically
apologizes and is sad about everything. and obviously, in the nick of
time, the sun, which could consequently keep her a bear, shines light
on the two and magically she turns back into a human (which isn't as
cool as I'm making it seem). The plot was a total deviation from the
trailer, it made no sense, and it was more for little kids than the
usual Pixar film, which for the most part is usually made for a wide
audience.

After the film, I couldn't leave fast enough. I hope people enjoy the
film, I just didn't. Nor would I recommend seeing it. 

I was throughly disappointed, but I'm curious on what others think. So
feel free to email me at ryanhartford86@yahoo.com
<|_=00=_|>
I felt compelled to write a review to counter all the excellent reviews
that this movie has received.

It is not excellent, in fact it is dull, celebrates disobedience and
feels like two completely different stories taped together to make up
the time.

I can't really see the point of the movie, young girls in Scotland
today (or the USA or even South Africa)are not forced to marry, in the
tenth century when they were it was accepted and not the great drama
made out in the movie.

The whole movie reeks of feminist fantasy- wanting to live in a
romantic Scottish medieval setting, sorting out mother issues and
having modern rules and standards.

I found it disturbing that every male character in the movie was
portrayed as at best, big stupid and loving, (King Fergus) at worst
violent and evil (the bear). They only males given any intelligence in
the movie are the triplets, who are constant thieves, conniving,
ruthless, destructive and very small! The basic story and message was
if you are a young woman with serious mother issues, don't worry. Do
something really nasty to your mother, then say you are really sorry
then your mother will change her mind and you can have it all your own
way! Don't worry about any men involved as they are too stupid to
understand what is going on.

A lot of this I could have forgiven if the movie did not feel so
disjointed, and in the second half frankly boring. This is not "How to
train your dragon" with a female lead (that would have been great) this
is a feminist Disney "Mother bear" done very beautifully by Pixar, with
great voice acting but ultimately very unsatisfying.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew Brave was in trouble from the first few words spoken in voice
over as the film began. Merida (Kelly Macdonald) uses the words "fate"
and "destiny" interchangeably. This muddle is at the heart of the
film's problem.

What's the difference between fate and destiny? Philosophers through
the ages have distinguished the two based on choice. Fate is something
that happens TO you. Destiny is something that happens BECAUSE of you.

Fate is at the root of such words as "fatal" and "fatalistic." It
implies LACK of choice. Philosopher Rollo May says fate is what we are
born into, something that cannot be changed and that we have no control
over, such as race.

May says destiny is what we create based on what we were given. Destiny
is all about CHOICE. It's what we choose to do with what we have.

Merida is born a princess. She can't change that. Her mother, Queen
Elinor (Emma Thompson), is grooming Merida for a role as future queen.
After a long series of wars King Fergus (Billy Connolly) has united the
four clans. Merida's duty is to help keep the clans unified though a
judicious marriage.

Merida is a wild rebellious child with special talent as a rider and
archer. The demonstrations of her skills are absolutely breathtaking.
She is unique and extraordinary and initially looks very much like a
Power of Idealism character.

These kinds of characters are driven by their passion. They abhor what
they consider to be a mundane, boring, or mediocre life. They want to
seize some grand destiny that is uniquely theirs.

Well-drawn female protagonists in this vein are: Paikea (Keisha
Castle-Hughes) in Whale Rider and Jess Kaur Bhamra (Parminder Nagra) in
Bend it Like Beckham. Unlike Paikea or Jess, Merida doesn't fight for
what she believes is HER destiny. Merida, instead, decides to change
her mother! Perhaps this is because Merida has no clue about what she
is really called to do.

Now the story gets even muddier. With the help of an old witch's spell
Merida does indeed change her mother  into a bear.

Instead of figuring out who she is and what she uniquely is called to
do, Merida must again deal with who her mother is. In the struggle over
the middle part of Brave, Queen Elinor becomes the protagonist.

The definition of a protagonist, in my book, is the person who makes
the biggest emotional sacrifice in the story. It is the person who
undergoes the most profound transformation. This is clearly Elinor on
every front.

Queen Elinor is a Power of Conscience character. She is a strict and
demanding taskmaster, a perfectionist, and is driven by a strong sense
of tradition and duty. Over the course of the story she recognizes her
daughter's uniqueness and fully appreciates Merida for who she is.

The first important glimpse of Elinor's change of heart is the brawl in
the great hall after Merida has disappeared. When Merida strides back
into the hall it is Elinor who puts words in Merida's mouth. Elinor
speaks through her surrogate about going against tradition and marrying
for love. It is Elinor who makes an eloquent plea for choice and
following one's heart. Merida is just her passive interpreter. At the
end of the film Elinor is willing to sacrifice her own life in a battle
with the ancient cursed bear, who one would assume, was the monster who
took off her husband's leg. Or not? Who knows?

Even more confusingly this monster turns out to be the legendary
brother, it would seem, who destroyed the ancient kingdom so long ago
because of his pride and selfishness. How how did he turn into a bear?
Was it mother love or something else that breaks his curse?

When a legend and curse is set up so carefully it should have a pay-off
having to do with Merida or her destiny if the film is really about
Merida.

And what does Merida do that is so brave? She scurries around looking
for the witch's house after her mother turns into a bear. She stitches
up (with big clumsy childish stitches) the tapestry she slashed
separating her from her mother. She does a lot of running away and
running around. She is ineffective in battling the monstrous cursed
bear. And she collapses in tears remembering her mother's loving
kindness as the second sunrise threatens to make her mother's bear
curse permanent. In other words, she acts like a child or worse a
girl.

At the end of the film, Elinor has changed but not Merida. Merida is
the same galloping wild child as she was in the beginning. It is a
sinking back into carefree childhood rather than striding toward an
adulthood based both on duty and and an individualistic sense of self.
If you are a young woman, what is the lesson here?

Brave offers no alternative vision of how Merida might help unify the
clan in some way that is uniquely hers. It provides a very unsatisfying
resolution. How has Merida changed or grown? What happens when King
Fergus and Queen Elinor are too old to rule? What is Merida's role
going forward? What exactly is her destiny?

For the full review go to my website ETBscreenwriting.
<|_=00=_|>
I love The Incredibles, Up, Shrek, Toy Story, Monsters Inc., Despicable
Me and Megeaman. I thought I was going to see something that amazing,
but with a female protagonist. But no. It was the same old Disney
princess movie: a princess having problems about who she is or is not
going to marry. We saw that in Snow White, Seeping Beauty, Cinderella,
The Little Mermaid. Apparently, that all females ever do: fret about
who they are going to marry.

Spoiler alert.

The movie starts out great: funny characters, great scenery, Scottish
accents, and a promising protagonist. I'm sucked in and expecting
something amazing and interesting, like the other Pixar movies. Then,
of course, since it is the Dark Ages (and Disney, not "really" Pixar),
the hand of the princess will be the prize in a contest. Been there,
done that. Of course she doesn't want that, so she runs away and finds
a witch and asks the witch to change her . . . her . . . fate? Like the
trailers said? No. She wants to change her MOM. The princess does not
want to grow and mature, she want's mom to quit bugging her. Mom has
done everything she can to give the princess a wonderful life and
educate and prepare her for a life of queen-ship. But that's not what
the princess wants. The princess wants  what? She really has no viable
alternative. It's not like she can go and get a career. The movie
implies that if she gets married, she can't ride her horse or shoot her
bow any more. Why not? So they parade out the three husband candidates
and of course, even though they are the sons of great chieftains, they
are all worthless. Predictable, boring plot. What if one of them was
handsome, charming, and a good archer, then she might not have minded
getting married and we could have seen the wedding in 3D.

Back to the witch. Well, the witch only knows ONE spell: change it into
a bear. That's a big help. The last person who bucked conformity and
wanted to do his own thing, he got changed into a wild, destructive
bear too. Is that one of the lessons in this movie? Conform or you will
become a wild, destructive, shunned animal? When her mother eats the
magic cake and begins to feel sick, all the princess can think about is
if she still has to get married. What if the magic cake killed her mom?
The princess doesn't seem too worried. Is this one of the lessons of
the movie? If your parents are trying to do the very best for you, and
it's cramping your style, just drug them to get them off your back.
After mom turns into a bear, there was no plot any more. It was just
running around like Bugs, Daffy and Elmer in the forest and the castle
until it was time for the movie to end. BORING.

Then there was the big speech the princess gave in the banquet room
about "Can't we all just get along?" What was that about? Everyone was
partying and getting along just fine. Lame.

So the princess cries and tells mom that she's sorry (of course she is
now that everything's a mess), and mom turns back into a person. But
who has the character arc? Not the princess. The princess still does
not want to get married. MOM is the one who changes, and she had
better! After all, she knows that if she leans too hard on her daughter
to do what's best, the daughter will drug her. So is that the lesson in
the movie? Don't pressure your kids to do what you know is best for
them, or they could get punitive. So mom caves in and says the young
people can chose by falling in love. There's a ground-breaking moral.
News flash: western women have not been getting betrothed for
centuries.

And why did they call the movie "Brave". The Princess didn't do
anything brave in the whole movie. In fact, she had a hissy fit, ran
from her responsibilities, and turned to drugs to solve the problems.

I don't care if it was 6 years in the making, or how amazing the 3D
effects were: the story was a dud.
<|_=00=_|>
Mix Brother Bear with almost any princess film and this is what you
get. The characters (surprisingly for Pixar) were poorly developed;
this is especially true for the mother, where I was expecting some kind
of back story, or at least a more believable development of the
mother-daughter relationship. But no, apparently you're best buddies
again and the mother will just change her mind on everything she
believed previously, through a single fish-catching montage. ...Really?
And don't get me started on 'the bad guy'. This 'evil bear' appears in
only two scenes - one in which they escape from him, and one in which
he returns and then gets squashed by a rock. In fact, the story would
have been almost identical had the 'bad guy' been cut out of the script
entirely.

Perhaps you could blame the complete underdevelopment of the plot and
characters on the relatively short runtime (100 minutes, minus the
equally disappointing 'short' at the beginning). But that wouldn't make
sense, as Toy Story 3, a brilliant film, had the same running time.

I suspect that they are cutting back their effort on all fronts
(writing, production time) bar animation, knowing full well that people
will pay for their films regardless, so 'why bother?'.

Following the equally mediocre Cars 2 with this, it's clear that Pixar
really needs to step up their game.

So please, do not support the decline of a once great film studio.
<|_=00=_|>
I suffered through the endless parade of BRAVE trailers for months. So
many months. I began to feel the movie had already come and gone. And
the trailers told me the single most important thing about this movie:
Pixar hired a crack team of PhD mathematicians, created 5 new fields of
modeling mathematics, and bought 27 BlueGene supercomputers just to
render the girl's hair.

The hair bounces. The hair swings. The hair toussles. The hair drops
stray locks here and there. The hair compacts. The hair billows. The
hair responds to the wind. The hair responds to momentum and interia.
The hair responds to humidity. The hair reflects every known shade or
"firey lass" red along with previously unknown shades the computers
postulated and shades the human mind cannot grasp.

And the hair is wrapped around a familiar, mediocre, largely
predictable story that you've seen several times before in several
other "girls can do anything boys can do" movies and TV sitcom
episodes.

Don't let Pixar's technical expertise and visual humor distract you
from the cold hard truth that the underlying story is pretty pale. The
visual styling is dazzling and inspiring, the attention to detail is
mind-boggling. Pixar makes unprecedented use of technology to create a
previously unseen richness of environment.

Which may explain why they had no energy left to craft a story you'd
want to sit through.

You've seen each fundamental step of the story anywhere from a million
to infinity-minus-one times before. Puberty-straddling girl wants to be
a free spirit. Girl complains that NO ONE UNDERSTANDS HER. Girl uses
various tricks and ruses to try to demonstrate she's capable but only
demonstrates that she's impatient and devious. Girl resorts to a dirty
trick to manipulate parents who JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND HER. The dirty
trick back-fires and girl spends most of the rest of the movie trying
to undo the harm she caused and mistakenly comes to the conclusion that
cleaning up her mess proves she's as cool as she thought she was, and
isn't a stubborn, willful, spiteful, selfish, manipulative, deceitful,
self-absorbed little bitch, not even a little.

Remind you of an episode of "That's So Raven"? See BRAVE at a
second-run dollar cinema. Or wait and see it on NetFlix.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is definitely for women in general. A young girl coming of
age is told she must have a suitor and get married. She's a tomboy and
wants to do her own thing and her mother and father want the opposite -
that's about it . The rest of the movie is filled with low brow humor ,
typical slapstick violence and the usual moral of the story ending.
After seeing the trailer and the movie poster ,one would think Brave
would be about this young girl fighting and winning battles with her
bow and arrow and a rousing adventure. Instead it's a dull boring
coming of age story with not much to give except for the kids who like
to watch cartoon bears and other creatures frolic around the woods and
moms raising their bratty teenage daughters. 3/10 .
<|_=00=_|>
Pixar execs used to say that the story was indispensable in their
filmmaking. They were right. It is too bad they didn't follow their own
advice in making Brave. As a formulaic Disney movie, it would be
average (though with above average visuals). But our family (kids' ages
from 10 to 18) doesn't bother seeing formulaic Disney movies anymore.
We saw it yesterday, and everyone was disappointed. "Cliche," one of
our children said. "Easily the worst Pixar movie I've ever seen," said
another (though none of us has seen Cars 2). I chuckled once.

Even though the moral of the story is that we're free to change our
fate, the stock Disney characters were firmly locked into their roles
and we could see the ending coming less than halfway through. I'm sorry
I saw it at all.

In a wonderful documentary called "The Pixar Story," John Lasseter
tells the story of how Disney suits almost ruined "Toy Story," which
had to be remade radically in order to be saved. It feels like this
time the Disney suits succeeded.

Is this a sign of things to come? Has Pixar been domesticated? With
tickets so ridiculously priced, I'm not going to a theater next time to
find out. We'll wait and rent.
<|_=00=_|>
That is exactly what I thought when the film was over.

Seriously, that was a Pixar film? You have to be joking.

When you get right down to it, it's yet another misfit princess story.
It's about a somewhat unruly princess who wants something different in
life than what her parents want for her. Now how many times have we
seen this story before? I'm not even going to list off those stories,
because most of you know and have seen them by now.

Simply, there is nothing in this movie that was memorable and that we
haven't seen before. We get the misfit princess story, and that's
exactly what we get. No surprises. It was all very predictable...

...until midway through the movie. (SPOILER ALERT) In case you haven't
seen the film, the princess(Merida) is not your typical princess. She's
outgoing - she's a fighter. She is particularly good at archery,
supposedly better than everyone else. But since she's a princess, OF
COURSE she has to marry a prince. Does she want to marry a prince? NO.
Are all of her suitors complete idiots who are unworthy of her?
ABSOLUTELY. Do her parents understand her? OF COURSE NOT. Does this
remind you of any other better movies? So anyway, since her mother in
particular doesn't see eye-to-eye with her, Merida pulls a petty trick
on her by slipping her a potion that would "change her". Gee, this
couldn't turn out to be anything bad, right? Well, it turned out bad
alright, and provided the only surprise in the movie: Her mother turns
into a BEAR! You've got to be kidding me.

The rest of the film is spend having Merida trying to undo the spell
whilst goofing around with her mother bear friend. (END SPOILER ALERT) 

If you are curious enough to see where that part of the story goes, you
should see it for yourself.

All in all, it's a very forgettable movie. There were some attempted
laughs in the film, but none that made me so much as chuckle. It was
mostly cookie-cutter children's movie writing; the kind of "funny"
things you'd expect the characters to be saying rather than giving them
some charming uniqueness.

Am I the only one who despises the three little boys? The whole time I
got the feeling that the writers were using them as a device to keep
the story interesting for little kids. I had the same complaint about
the three gargoyles in The Hunchback of Notre Dame; They were
irritating and added nothing to the story. All they added were typical
"little boy" mischief that made me yearn for the end of the current
scene.

The only amount of heart in this film was after the mother threw
Merida's bow in the fire, and then we see her pull it out of the fire
regretfully, realizing what she had done. Granted, that's not much, but
at least that's SOME glimpse into a character. They could have easily
ended the scene right there, and made the mother look like a complete
witch, but for a brief moment, we get to see a little bit of how the
mother actually feels.

Thanks for wasting my money, Pixar!
