
Although some of my colleagues were a bit shocked by the subject matter
I was extremely satisfied with this dark comedy film with feeling. It
was truthful yet entertaining (mostly due to the Cast & heartfelt
writing). Dustin being a newcomer allowed me to believe this was a real
boy struggling with the issues of growing up under his slightly unusual
circumstances. Kim Cattrall was wonderful and her chemistry with Dustin
was unbelievable! I would love to know if she and he were long time
friends and she had something to do with choosing him as Tobe. Brian
Dennehy was strong yet short lived in this film. I believe there
could've been an entire movie in itself based on POP-POP and TOBE'S
relationship and home life. (Maybe an HBO Series). Ha! I'm very excited
that Kim has shed the "Sex In The City" suit for a more "real" dark
character and with a new star on its way in the form of Dustin Ingram,
this movie will be a long lived tribute to his start (although he has
plenty of younger Disney & Nickelodeon credits). I highly recommend
going and seeing it in April 2011 when ANCHOR BAY is supposed to
release it nation wide! And don't let the taboo of the word "Porn Star"
keep you from enjoying a delightful movie about young love and maturing
in a current world of motherless and fatherless households with our
children being raised by the media. Please support this work of art
written and directed by Kieth Bearden.
<|_=00=_|>
So here i am wandering through my local video store looking for
something good to watch and i stumble across Meet Monica Velour,
judging from the cover and the description on the back i was expecting
the usual silly sex comedy, boy was i wrong.

Meet Monica Velour is exceptional, at times hilarious, at times
awkward, at times heartbreaking. And it is all thanks to a fearless
performance from Kim Cattrall, she is just down right amazing as this
extremely damaged character. Never have i seen her better, she is as
much this character as she is Samantha from SATC. The fact that she can
immortalize a character such as Samantha and then do something
completely different like this is the making of a truly great actress,
and also a shamefully under-rated one.

The story is wonderful, the super nerd of a small town finally gets the
chance to meet his favourite porn star only to realize that her life is
very different than what he imagined it would be, cue a friendship like
no other i've seen in film. After i realized that this movie was
totally different than what i thought it was going to be i then had the
though "oh this is going to be a sappy feel good story", wrong again,
this is a totally original story that doesn't have a scrap of cliché at
all.

I hope this movie finds a wide audience, its so deserving, Kim Cattrall
needs to be in more great movies like this...... She's so great to
watch.

See it, you'll love it....... ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. It's got lots of heart, a rare thing today
without getting schmalzy, good laughs and smart and to the point
writing. Without doubt the best part is Kim Cattrall's performance.
She's never been this good, or even close. She totally looses herself
in Monica Velour. It's a Streep quality job. There's an Oscar buzz
already on some blogs and shockingly, I think they're right. But apart
from that, I'd say this movie is one of the most real movies I've seen.
The characters are taken off the street, their dreams and realities are
like the ones we all share. It makes me think - why aren't there more
movies like this out there, movies that make us sit back and look at
our own lives and say hey, I don't need to lose twenty pounds or be a
superstar, I can just be me.
<|_=00=_|>
Once again, because of the website, I am given the opportunity to watch
a film that I would have never seen before. Sure, I see a lot of duds
and some movies that shouldn't even be watched by anyone, let alone me
--- but, every now and then, a film will come along that will take me
by complete surprise. This is one of those films. Thoroughly
entertaining and loaded with humor and heart, Meet Monica Velour is
definitely one you should watch.

We are introduced to Tobe (Ingram) straight away. He is working inside
his Pop Pop's (Dennehy) weenie wiz mobile selling hot dog wares to the
locals like Kenny (Yelsky) and spying on girl like Amanda (Han). When
he arrives home, he likes to hibernate in his room and fantasize about
his real obsession: Monica Velour (Cattrall), a porno actress from the
70's. He has his room decorated with her posters, keeps scrapbooks
about her and even orders some of her rarest works on VHS tape. His Pop
Pop gives him the weenie mobile for a graduation present and Tobe
immediately puts it up for sale for $5,000. Seeing as how Monica Velour
has all but fallen off the face of the Earth, Tobe sets his sights on
Amanda since he learned some new things about her that really struck a
chord with him. However, when he tries to approach Amanda, some
circumstances happen that make him flee back to the safety of his room
and causes him to go on a frenzied (and humorous) internet search. As
fate would have it, Monica Velour is making a special appearance in a
small town in Indiana -- very close to another small town in Indiana
where an artist named Claude (David) wants the weenie mobile delivered.
Not needing any other signs, Tobe packs up and hits the road to meet up
with his fantasy girl/crush/obsession. Once there, he defends her honor
while she's on stage from a bunch of misanthropes and gets the holy
hell beat out of him. Feeling sorry for him and appreciating what he
did for her, Monica takes Tobe home and tends to his wounds, but not
without relieving him of the money in his wallet first. When Tobe comes
to in the morning, he finally gets to sit down and have an actual talk
with his fantasy girl. He learns that not everything went as planned
for her and she has had traveled more downs than ups in the roller
coaster of life. Thinking he can make her life better, he then sets out
to try and woo her and some other complications get in his way before
the movie's end, such as: her ex-husband, her daughter with said
ex-husband and her desperation for money to name a few.

I really, really, really enjoyed this film, particularly Kim Cattrall
-- she was amazing as Linda Romanoli aka Monica Velour. Cattall gives a
go-for-broke performance that truly pays off. I had no problems
believing that she was a broken down, alcohol-fueled, drug-addicted
porn star. Not only did she look the part (she shot her home scenes
entirely without her hair and makeup being done to make it more
realistic), but she shows off her acting chops as well. If this movie
had a bigger push from the studio or a wider release or did more money
in the box office, I could see her snagging an Oscar nomination
easily. That's not to say that everyone else in the movie wasn't good
-- she just gave the film's best performance bar none. Also good was
Dustin Ingram as Tobe -- geeky and dorky enough to be quirky and
heartfelt and real enough to be likable. Dennehy also does a nice job,
although his role is extremely limited, it's hardly worth mentioning.

Not once did I feel bored or wished this movie would just end already.
I was genuinely interested in all of the characters and was curious as
to how everything was going to come to a close. Speaking of the ending
-- it's the only thing about the movie that's truly lacking. I felt
that it all ended just a bit too soon. There was so much going on and
it was like the film crew were on time and/or money restraints, so they
wrapped up everything a tad too quickly (and too neatly, I might add).
A simple thing that can be overlooked, I suppose, but it's enough for
me to lower my grade because having spent some time with the
characters, I felt they needed a bit more resolve than what was
spoon-fed to us.

I still highly recommend the film and it will even be going on my list
of one of the ones that you have to watch in 2011. The movie is very
funny in most parts, but also has it's bittersweet and heartfelt
moments that will make you enjoy it even more. Some of the film's
funniest moments come from Tobe and Monica watching Monica's early porn
footage from films such as: Princess Layme in Star Muffs and
Frankenbooty (in 3D, no less!) 

More reviews at www.soveryterry.com

Final Grade: B+
<|_=00=_|>
Watched this because I'm a Kim Cattrall fan. She shows she is a
versatile and talented actress who can do much more than just Samantha.
She can play anything from sophisticated Manhattanite to even trailer
trash former porn star. She even lets all the wrinkles show.

Her co-star Ingram is a bit too goofy looking to be watchable. Makes
the movie a bit second rate. Could have chosen a more appealing nerd
geek type.

Unfortunately the story is more painful than touching.

Overall watch it if you are Kim Cattrall fan, otherwise it isn't a must
see.
<|_=00=_|>
"Why can't you like normal stuff like everybody else?" Toby is a nerd.
He likes things no one else does like 1920's music, but his favorite
thing of all is former adult film star Monica Velour (Cattrall). After
his Grandfather (Dennehy) insults him one too many times Toby decides
to leave, and meets Monica. This is the type of movie that when you
watch you like it, but when its over and you look back on it you start
to like it more and more. I snickered a few times watching, but when I
remember the lines and context I laugh harder. This movie is a
surprisingly sweet coming of age tale about a boy on his way up and a
woman on her way down. I have a bad habit of, for lack of a better
word, over-simplifying a review by comparing it to movies people have
heard of. That said...this movie is a cross between "Napolean Dynamite"
and "Boogie Nights". If Napolean met the Julianna Moore character from
"Boogie Nights" you would have this movie. I will have to say the Kim
Cattrall is the perfect choice for this movie and while not being the
total opposite of Samantha she is more of a burnt out version of that
character. I would love to see at least a Golden Globe nomination for
her for this, but I doubt that will happen. Overall, a good movie that
will grow on you. I give it a B 

Would I watch again? - I think I might

*Also try - Elektra Luxx
<|_=00=_|>
Let's say you're tired of slack-brained comedies dealing with mature
subjects the prepubescent way. Let's say you've watched your fair share
of raunchy comedies with heart and are now just looking for the
"heart." And let's say you want a film that doesn't sacrifice
performances for writing or vice-versa. You may want to listen up here.

Keith Bearden's Meet Monica Velour is a mature film about a mature
subject, which is coming-of-age and entering reality after being
confined to a fantasy that one has developed over a long period of
time. It centers around Tobe (Dustin Ingram), a shy seventeen year old
who has an undying fascination with classic movies, music, and
pornography. He lives with his cantankerous grandfather (Brian Dennehy)
and his best friend is only twelve years old. But the person he loves
more than these two combined is Monica Velour, a sexy porn star who
made a living doing seventies exploitation flicks. Tobe's deep
fascination with the woman only increases because she has faded into
complete obscurity, no longer acting and not leaving any traces behind.

When Tobe discovers the one and only Monica Velour will be appearing at
a strip club, he makes the long commute to not only meet her, but also
sell the only car he has - an bulky van with a gigantic hot dog
attached to the roof. When he finally arrives at the strip club, the
woman he sees isn't quite who everyone would label attractive. Monica
(Kim Cattrall) is now an aging, deeply unhappy woman, juggling
child-custody, a deadbeat boyfriend, her uncompromising and
somewhat-regrettable legacy, and constant ridiculing for her life
choices. Tobe is still undeniably starstruck when he meets the woman,
and strikes up a friendship after he is assaulted at the bar by a group
of thugs.

The biggest problem with Monica's relationship with Tobe is that Tobe
lives in, what appears to be, another reality, one where Monica is
still the incredible porn-goddess she once was and where problems can
be fixed by ditching life's current situation in favor of what looks to
be a long-term solution. Monica views Tobe's decision-making as
reckless and lethal to her stability, but can't shake the thought that
he is a young, starstruck soul with more of a voice than most of the
other kids his age. It's that conflict and the enormous age difference
that makes their relationship thrive.

Cattrall is a wise choice for Monica. She is the right amount of sexy
for the role, but she is also the right amount of brains and
intelligence as well, as she plays Monica with a sense of helplessness
but also bravery. Here's a woman that has been broken numerous times,
and here she stands, beaten, torn, and clearly roughed-up. But she's
not giving up; she's too powerful for that.

Ingram plays Tobe effectively too, humanizing what could've been the
most stereotypical, unlikable nerd. Rather than making him insufferably
quirky and unrealistically inept like, say, his doppelganger Napoleon
Dynamite, Bearden turns the character into a likable man with a real
heart and wit to his strange, socially awkward nature. He's not all
skin and quirks, and the movie actually gives him a firm leg to stand
on.

Meet Monica Velour is, uniformly, a quiet film. The film moves quickly,
but not too quickly as to where it is easy to forget. The ethics and
choices of the characters demand contemplation (even if some -
including the climax - seem to be a bit forced), the commentary it
includes on the porn world outside of the STD-craze is noteworthy, and
the cinematography and locational beauty of the entire project is, at
the very least, nicely displayed throughout the course of the film.
Throw in great performances from Cattrall - who may be giving her
career-worthy performance here - and a nice introduction into film from
Ingram and you have a winning film.

Starring: Dustin Ingram and Kim Cattrall. Directed by: Keith Bearden.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not one for either reading reviews or writing them. I did however
sign up with IMDb just now to recommend this movie and posit that Kim
Cattrall should easily have taken home a best actor award of some sort
for her work in it. For those who have seen the movie or those who will
see it, there is a scene (and you will know which one I mean) toward
the end that is absolutely breath-taking. I have not seen something
that honest and powerful in a movie in a very very long time. I get a
chill just thinking about it now. I think as we get older we forget
about the tug we felt inside when we first fell in love. We might even
block it on purpose because it is frightening and beautiful and very
powerful all at the same time. When I watched this film I knew where
that feeling was and that it doesn't ever really go away. In a
cinematic sea of pop-romance films, this one digs down much deeper. Kim
Cattrall makes you want to be her hero. Her performance is just that
special.
<|_=00=_|>
With a title like 'Meet Monica Velour', one can almost be assured of
some sleazy raunchy plot of a scenario and gratuitous nudity. One would
be wrong; well there's some, not much, partial nudity but it is
absolutely necessary in the context of the story. The storyline summary
in IMDb is as much as needs to be said unless you are prepared to deal
with the real and more lengthy story. The full story is much more in
depth than what is superficially conveyed by the title; a better choice
for a title could help this nice story to find an audience and reassure
the viewer that the movie is not raunchy or sleazy. I decided to watch
it because I often take a non conventional approach to picking movies;
seeking gems, I watch a volume of films which inevitably means I will
see duds and crap before I find those gem that make it all worthwhile.
'Meet Monica Velour' is almost one of those gems, not quite but as
close as it comes to the real thing. That makes it worth a view. Why?
For all the following reasons: 

Kim Cattrall shows that she can act, oh yes, no kidding; she is giving
a performance she can be very proud of. Before this movie, I thought of
Kim Cattrall as an actress who only did commercial stuff where she is a
character of low morality to say it nicely, and where little acting
skills were required. Here she plays a person of low morality in a way
of course, but one who is honest, caring and loving while having to
show the struggle of a former porn star with some brain and what she
must endure later in life. It is a beautifully done piece of acting as
you'll ever see; she is completely believable and garnishes sympathy
from a stunned viewer like me. I dare anyone to find a smart review
that says different. Then there's Dustin Ingram, who plays the main
character and acquits himself with equal savvy; his character is
brilliantly well depicted. There are several sweet moments and as many
realistic down to earth, "real life' moments that deserved good acting
and these two actors delivered. A young director by the name of Keith
Bearden now has a showcase for his portfolio and one he can be proud
of, both for the directing and the script.
<|_=00=_|>
A gem to watch. A master piece of artistry that not many movies
portray. It comes with solid acting and portrays some harsh realities
of the direction life can go in. You just can't help to feel sorry for
Monica who is masterfully portrayed by Kim Cattrall. The good acting
and storyline does an excellent job at capturing your attention and has
a moving story to tell. Some situations are just downright too
un-imaginable or bizarre which makes it really comical, providing a
good laugh.

It started out a bit slow but once the plot is underway it is a gem of
a story to see unfold.
