
A dumb lead character in a comedy can result in a funny movie. However,
if every other character is dumb enough to be even slightly charmed by
a vulgar, drunken, slovenly 41-year-old man with an annoying voice who
looks like a washed-up Guns N Roses roadie, plausibility flies right
out the window, and so do the laughs.

"That's My Boy" has more promise in its male leads than it ultimately
delivers. After all, Adam Sandler and Andy Samberg have a lot more in
common besides initials. They're both Saturday Night Live alumni who
made names for themselves by writing original, funny songs. They also
both practically single-handedly revitalized SNL's popularity by
attracting a younger following.

You would think a movie starring both of them would showcase each of
their talents. Unfortunately, in "That's My Boy", Samberg was
restricted to a straight man role, while Sandler routinely eats scenery
with his atrocious Boston accent that sounds more Louisianan.

The film's premise does not leave much room for laughs as it is.
Sandler plays Donny, a native of Somerville, Massachusetts who, when
he's 13 years old, has a thing for older women, particularly his
teacher, Miss McGarricle (Eva Amurri Martino).

When Miss McGarricle takes too much of a liking to the young Donny,
they have sex, they get caught, and Miss McGarricle gets pregnant. She
bears a son, but gets sentenced to 30 years in prison.

In a contrived, totally unrealistic plot point that only serves as
fodder for jokes later on in the film, young Donny is ordered by the
court, who apparently had never heard of child care services, to raise
his newborn son. Even more unrealistically, Donny becomes a celebrity,
sells his life story for six figures, and blows his money away.

The second part of that scenario rubbed me the wrong way already. Do
you remember the name of the boy with whom 6th grade teacher Mary Kay
Letorneau had sex? I don't. That boy was featured in the New York
Times, but not on the cover of Teen Beat!

Anyway, Donny's son Todd (Samberg) grows up to become a successful
hedge fund manager, but only after moving away from Donny when he
turned 18 (Again, child services anyone?). Donny, on the other hand,
spends his money so irresponsibly that he ultimately owes $43,000 in
back taxes.

When he finds out about Todd's engagement to beautiful Jamie (Leighton
Meester), Donny convinces a TV talk show host to pay him $50,000 for
exclusive footage of Donny, Todd, and Todd's biological mother (still
in jail) reuniting at last. Such a contrived plot point serves as the
reason Donny shows up unannounced to Todd's wedding site days before
the wedding.

Rather than the wedding party, consisting of Jamie's family and Todd's
boss Steve Spirou (Tony Orlando), being repulsed by Donny's disheveled
hair, ratty clothes, vernacular that consists of the f-word spoken
every third sentence, and his irritating faux Boston accent, they
somehow see his charm. It's surprising, because if a guy who acted like
Donny showed up at my wedding, I would call security before he even
opened his mouth.

Naturally, because Donny is a boy who never grew up, his shenanigans
supposedly ruin Todd's plans for the perfect wedding. The usual clich√©
plot points happen when Donny and Todd have a falling out the night
before the wedding, sentimental music borrowed from "Full House" reruns
play during the night scenes, and the climax happens right when the
bride and groom are taking their vows.

I should note that there's also a plot twist involving the bride that
was so out of left field that it landed in another ball park. Without
giving it away, I really wish the film hadn't gone there. That twist
made me cringe far more than it made me laugh.

Add those hackneyed wedding movie story lines to Sandler's constantly
disseminating his tired onslaught of fat jokes, penis gags, fart
noises, antics revolving around elderly people having sex, and
homophobic humor, and you've got "That's My Boy". The difference
between him doing those jokes in this movie and his last movie, "Jack
and Jill" (2011), is that here, when using an irritating voice, he
doesn't cross dress.

Don't get me wrong, though. I don't hate Adam Sandler. In fact, "Happy
Gilmore" (1996), "The Wedding Singer" (1998), and "The Waterboy" (1998)
still make me laugh both because the jokes are fresher and funnier, and
because Sandler's character in those movies had heart. Here, he plays a
buffoon so obnoxious you want to punch him in the face.

The other jokes not spoken by Sandler, but by other characters, fall
flat 9 times out of 10. New York Jets coach Rex Ryan plays Sandler's
financial adviser who happens to be a huge New England Patriots fan.
Get it? Because he's actually the Jets coach in real life? Hardy har
har!

Among the many cameos in this film, the only one that's genuinely funny
is Vanilla Ice, who plays himself. He surprisingly does such a good job
parodying his image from 20 years ago that Happy Madison Productions
should actually give him his own movie.

However, Vanilla Ice's role in the movie reflected the problem of
"That's My Boy": when Adam Sandler and Andy Samberg are in a movie
together, the funniest person should not be Vanilla Ice! Sandler really
needs to reevaluate his on-screen humor and his career. While his
movies are making money, he's gradually losing credibility.

To paraphrase an earlier, funnier Sandler movie ("Billy Madison"
(1995)), "That's My Boy" is one of the most insanely idiotic things I
have ever seen. At no point in this rambling, incoherent film was
Sandler even close to anything that could be considered funny. Everyone
in my screening room is now dumber for having seen it. I award this
movie 2 out of 10 stars, and may God have mercy on Adam Sandler's soul.
<|_=00=_|>
Seems every movie Sandler does these days gets hated on. People saying
this is the worst movie ever made in history...really? You people must
not have seen many movies. Regardless of what Sandler does the rest of
his career its now popular to point out how it sucks and not as funny
as his old movies. I enjoyed this movie, laughing out loud several
times. Sandler does a great job playing the father. The bachelor party
scenes are epic, really feel for the characters. Uncle Vanny?
Hilarious. At no point in this movie did I think "oh man this is the
worst thing I've seen in my life." Had good feeling, good comedy, a
solid entry to Sandlers recent works. Much much better than the one
where he played his sister.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not see why there are so many people who hate on this movie, It is
what it is, Its a comedy movie. In my opinion Sandler is going back to
his comedic roots... I mean you cant tell me when he was on SNL and in
some of his earlier movies he didn't act stupid, Maybe some of you
reviewers are just getting old and don't know comedy anymore when you
see it. See people need to stop critiquing a comedy like this based as
though it was a movie in another genre. But thats just my opinion, If
your looking for something funny I recommend seeing this. But you might
need to be a specific age group, 12-36, I guess Sandler is tired of
trying to make all you "old fools" laugh. Also Andy Samberg was great
along with Will Forte and Nick Swardson, even though he only had like 4
lines.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to start off by saying I have never been so confused by movie
reviews in my entire life. Did people watch the same movie I saw?
That's My Boy is the funniest Adam Sandler movie and in my opinion the
funniest movie I've ever seen. I did not go longer than 5 minutes
without hysterically laughing at the scenes in this movie. As a fan of
movies such as Wedding Crashers, Old School, Step Brothers, 21 Jump
Street, Superbad, and Forgetting Sarah Marshall just to name a few,
this has to be the funniest movie out of the bunch. If you're looking
for more than just laughs, than maybe the movie might not be right for
you. And do not go into an R rated comedy expecting no dirty jokes.
This is Adam Sandler at his raunchiest and funniest.
<|_=00=_|>
The reviews for the movie are terrible and I went thinking negatively
all ready. To be fair, Adam Sandler does act immature and pretty stupid
throughout the movie, but lighten up folks. This is an "off-the-rails"
type of comedy. Thus, it's R rated for good reason, and there's plenty
of cursing without reason, but I laughed hard and often. I actually was
doing homework while watching and drooled a little bit on my textbook
from laughing so hard. The action in the movie didn't stop.

I wouldn't recommend seeing this movie with your parents. Maybe the
movie isn't worth $9 at the theaters either, but if you're bored at
home or wanting to rent a movie with some friends, definitely check
this movie out! Hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
That's My Boy is content with being a belligerent vulgarian comedy that
it is willing to concoct any setup, any one-liner, or any character as
long as it's on par with its irredeemable crude standard. It's first
fatal flaw is that it erects so many raunchy situations that it
completely undermines the characters that are involved in them, which
is the whole reason we laugh. We laugh not at the situations
themselves, but how these characters react to them. But this is only
the icing on the cake of disgust.

Such topics covered in the film are teacher-student molestation,
strippers, poor parenting, child abuse, browbeating the less fortunate,
incest, and many more. Only Sandler would take such heartless and
degrading topics and throw them all into a film where no wit, soul, or
morals can be found. They are employed with such carelessness and such
a disregard for humanity that it becomes utterly revolting. The only
laughs to be found come from, not a main character, but one that shows
up at the end of the film (something you should expect from a Happy
Madison picture). He is Abdoulaye N'gom, who was also in the Sandler
produced Grandma's Boy. How come somebody didn't think to put him as
one of the side characters? The story can be summed up in fragmented
words such as lazy, overwritten, camaraderie, inconsiderate, offensive,
demeaning, and mean-spirited, but let's focus on the plot itself. It
starts out on the ever-so bright note of teacher-student molestation,
where young nitwit teenager Donny Berger is happily seduced by his
teacher, Miss Mary McGarricle in a closet. It results in an unexpected
pregnancy, where Miss McGarricle goes to prison, and their baby is left
with the teenage Donny, who can barely take care of himself, let alone
another child.

Donny names the kid "Han Solo Berger," and at eighteen, the kid becomes
estranged from his parents, telling people they died in an explosion,
changes his name to "Todd Peterson," and begins a new life. Donny
(Sandler) went on to live off a six figure deal to sell his story to a
Television show, and carelessly blew all the money, forgetting that he
needed to pay taxes on the earnings. Donny now owes the IRS $43,000,
and winds up striking a $50,000 deal with a filthy reality show
executive to get him, Todd, and his mother (currently in prison) to do
a reunion event on camera. It's scummy and outlandishly selfish.

Todd is Andy Samberg, who is stunned to see Donny show up uninvited and
quickly tells his wife's family that he is a close friend of his, and
this leads to some contrived shouting matches between the two as to how
Donny was the worst parent ever. This is true. It's a too little, too
late effort, but Donny decides it's time to make nice with Todd, so he
stays at their house during the wedding to reconnect with his son,
while trying to conceal the fact that he's only there for money.

This is yet another Sandler film I like to dub an "anti-character"
study. First off, there is hardly a likable character in the film,
except for Todd, who is just a poor man's version of a neurotic success
story. The character Donny comes equipped with Sandler's most
horrendous accent since his character in The Waterboy, and this could
very well be Sandler's worst film in years (I have not seen Jack and
Jill). It aims to go for the baddest of laughs, but due to the lack of
discipline, plausibility in the writing (why isn't the baby given to
child services?), and the removal of heart in its material, it's a
middle finger to morals and an ode to chaotic, mean-spirited
circumstances.

That's My Boy inhabits a world of such cruelty to almost everyone
involved. The males are incompetent caricatures, motivated by ego and
greed, the women are no better than the size of their breasts and
buttocks, shown in a misogynistic light almost saying that women exist
to either show off parts of their body or to be ditzy, foul-mouthed
bimbos, and every middle-age side character is shown as an amoral
horn-dog, both men and women alike. Remember Big Daddy? One of the few
Adam Sandler films sort of slanted and aimed more for children? It
involved a louse who is stuck raising an illegitimate kid for his best
friend. You could sort of label That's My Boy the raunchy sequel to Big
Daddy, an explain it extracted the heart and sentiment out of it. But
saying that would give the film more purpose than it's entitled to.
It's a loathsome, painfully unfunny affront to comedy.

Starring: Adam Sandler, Andy Samberg, Leighton Meester, Susan Sarandon,
Will Forte, Nick Swardson, Peter Dante, and Abdoulaye N'gom. Directed
by: Sean Anders.
<|_=00=_|>
For his last movie he broke a record with the Razzies Awards in getting
10 awards in every category such as Worst Movie, Worst Actor, etc. You
would think he could not hit more rock bottom. That is unless you've
been unfortunate to waste your hard earned money, and more importantly
your time, in seeing this movie. Perhaps they will add a new category
for this years awards so he can do another sweep and break last years
record. I am not even going to comment on the movie itself in this
review, as that is just even more time from my life I will not get
back. I am going to turn on the TV and watch anything that's on to get
my mind off this, even an infomercial on the Shake Weight, as that will
still be orders of magnitudes better then this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The basic storyline is this Adam Sandler gets his teacher pregnant, now
he's mooching off his much more successful son. done. Thats it. No deep
storyline, no meaning behind it just done. 

But this is a comedy so the storyline doesn't really matter. So lets
look at the jokes... uh... okay... so there are no jokes. There are a
lot of crewed and stupid moments, particularly regarding sex, that are
simply discussing, not funny. Thats the closest they get to a joke is
making the audience puke their guts out until eyes bleed. 

The acting is crap, the storyline is stupid, the is an unnecessary
number of sexual "puns" (I put puns for lack of a better word but don't
let that confuse you They don't make you laugh), and a ball rolling
randomly across a keyboard could write a better script.

I'm sorry to say I was forced to watch this abomination at the drive
in. I voted to go home but my brothers voted to stay so I was force
feed this garbage after seeing Ted with Seth McFarlane (Funny movie)
The good mood Ted put me in was beaten to death by this piece of
garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
I have tried to watch this abortion of a film called "That's my Boy" a
couple of times now , and all I can say is "Who is giving Adam Sandler
money to make "films" , and who in the hell thinks this CRAP is funny"?
If there was ever a reason to think our society is in it's last days ,
this "film" could be the biggest indicator of it. Raped by his high
school teacher , Adam Sandler plays the lead and is idolized by his
peers. THIS IS A PREMISE OF A MAJOR Hollywood MOVIE? WTF PEOPLE! I
guess there are rape jokes , incest jokes , racist & sexist jokes all
through this "film" . Is this any indication of what Sandler thinks
about in his real life? And , another thing bothers me about Sandler's
movies. How the hell does he get legitimate actors like Al Pacino and
Susan Sarandon to appear in his crap? Pacino was in his previous piece
of doo - doo, "Jack and Jill" , and Sarandon has a walk on in this
"film". Now , of course , his latest fiasco , Pixels is playing , and ,
really people , don't support Sandler anymore! His "films" are just
that. A filmy , disgusting slime that insult your stupidity , leave you
feeling violated , and depleted of all intelligence. SANDLER , JUST GO
AWAY , YOU NEED SERIOUS HELP!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Why do I go into Adam Sandler movies with the hope that each new
offering will be the one that redeems him as an actor, a writer, and a
producer? You'd think I was a masochist or delusional or both; although
I've willingly subjected myself some truly abominable projects of his
in the past two years alone, including "The House Bunny," "Grown Ups,"
"Just Go With It," "Bucky Larson: Born to Be a Star," "Zookeeper," and
"Jack and Jill," I've also seen him expand his horizons towards more
mature, more compelling endeavors like "Punch Drunk Love," "Reign Over
Me," and "Funny People." Hell, he even won me over with "You Don't Mess
with the Zohan," which certainly is of the same raunchy, tasteless
caliber as most of his other films. He has surprised me before, and I
live in hope that he will surprise me again.

I had to keep telling myself that as I sat through his newest film,
"That's My Boy," in which Sandler doubles as the star and the producer.
For him, and for everyone involved, this is a pathetic new low,
representative of nothing apart from a desperate plea for attention.
With its bizarre blending of disgusting toilet humor and heartfelt
moments of drama, it exemplifies a complete lack of understanding on
the filmmakers' part about who the movie was intended for. When you
include a scene in which an obese stripper eats an omelet while using
her legs to hang upside down from a pole, there is no conceivable way
to believably work in a sentimental father/son bonding story. There is
only one kind of audience this movie is made for, and I'm fairly
certain it will respond more to the stripper than to any depiction of
family drama.

The story begins in 1984, when a boy barely in his teens has sex with
his hot female teacher, who quite willingly came onto him. They're
eventually caught having sex in the school assembly room while,
wouldn't you know it, a full assembly is in progress. The intent is
obvious: To make light of recent news stories about female teachers
seducing their male students. But hold on a minute. Imagine if the
foundation of the plot had been an adult male teacher seducing his
female student. Would we consider that funny? Of course not. We would
rightfully think of the girl as a victim. So then why is it funny when
the gender roles are reversed? Why is the boy a stud instead of a
victim? In either case, this is statutory rape we're talking about, and
the last time I checked, this was not suitable material for a comedy.
What we have here is not only a glaring double standard but also a
warped sense of humor. The filmmakers should be ashamed of themselves.

The affair resulted in the teacher's pregnancy, which in turn resulted
in a thirty-year prison sentence for her. As for the teen, he was
required to become a single parent to his child, a son he named Han
Solo, until his eighteenth birthday. Initially, it turned out pretty
good for him; he won the respect of his classmates, he became a teenage
celebrity, and a TV movie based on his life was produced. But then we
flash forward to the present day, at which point we find that the teen
has grown into a slovenly, foulmouthed, beer-chugging slacker. His name
is Donny Berger (Sandler), and if he wants to avoid a three-year prison
sentence, he must pay the IRS $43,000 in back taxes. He strikes a deal
with a sleazy talk show host: If he can film Han Solo reuniting with
his mother (Susan Sarandon) in prison, he will pay Donny $50,000.

There's only one problem. Donny's now adult son (Andy Samberg), who has
legally changed his name to Todd Peterson, hasn't spoken to his father
in years and has made every effort to hide his past. Now a hopelessly
neurotic diabetic, he has become a successful businessman and is
engaged to woman named Christina (Leighton Meester). Donny tracks Todd
down through a candid publicity photo, reenters his life the weekend
before his wedding, and poses as Todd's oldest best friend. Even though
he has the social skills of a drunk on a bender, Donny is inexplicably
able to win over all of Christina's family. This would include her
rather elderly grandmother (Peggy Stewart); not only does Donny
masturbate to side-by-side photos of her as a young woman and as she
appears today, he will also have sex with her. Yes, she initiates it.
And yes, he willingly accepts her advances.

As the plot lumbers ahead, we see James Caan as a priest with a thick
Irish brogue and a rotten temper, bear witness to a disgusting and
completely unnecessary plot twist involving Christina and her
testosterone-pumped military brother (Milo Ventimiglia), and endure a
few visual jokes involving vomit and semen. We also watch as Vanilla
Ice plays a parody of himself as Donny's best friend, made all the more
unbearable by the fact that he's actually a pretty decent actor. All
the while, we're expected not to laugh at the phony drama of Donny and
Todd working towards repairing their relationship. The people behind
"That's My Boy" make countless mistakes, but the biggest was to believe
that this subplot could in any way, shape, or form be taken seriously.
I take that back. The biggest mistake was making the film in the first
place.

-- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
