
Been cursing myself to have watched such mindless video game movie.

Deepika Padukone is completely misfit and she looks awkward for most of
the screen time. Vin Diesel should stick to Fast and Furious franchise,
2002 XXX was much better. Rest of the star cast is assembled to just
please the producers "Shanghai Movies".

There is no story, no screenplay, improper acting, it seems like
director has wasted his most of the time in VFX labs than on actual
story and screenplay.

Disgraceful start to 2017, if you want to watch mindless graphical
action, better play video game. Disappointed to the core, save your
time, money and if you still want to see then be ready to curse
yourself...backed by big production house, critics and fake reviews
will start floating soon appreciating the movie, beware.
<|_=00=_|>
How do you make a hit film? It's simple. Cast some of the biggest stars
in the industry and you are halfway through, add a lot of mindless
action, do some promotional stunts (like Vin wearing a Lungi and
dancing on a Hindi song) and you are done. Audiences are bound to go
crazy.

I have never been a fan of any of the XXX films but this one I watched
for Deepika. But Oh My God, what was I thinking? This film is awful
beyond measure. There is nothing to watch. I mean it's the same thing
you must have seen at least a hundred times by now. Same clich√©d story,
same mindless action sequences and people reading their lines like they
are mannequins who have been brought to life my some magic. Even the
origami did a way better job in Kubo and the two strings and they are
made out of paper, mind you.

People are saying Deepika was good and I completely disagree. I can say
that she did a good job with action sequences but her acting was
pathetic. In fact there were only one or two people who actually tried
to act.

So, don't waste your money on this awful experience. If you are
watching it for Deepika then drop your plans. The screen time she gets
is longer than I anticipated but nothing good comes out of it. It is
another of those meaningless action films that you forget the moment
you walk out of the Cinema. There are better movies playing in theaters
that deserve your money instead of this crap. Do something meaningful
with your money.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not quite sure why Xander Cage returned, I just wish he hadn't. 

This movie is so low brow, you might mistake it for a caterpillar. It's
devoid of anything that looks like a plot or decent character
development. 

Instead its cheesy show off time with lots of tat's, juvenile bravado,
sparkly overstated jewelry and guns from "da hood". This is a film that
feels, in my opinion, like it was made by a 15 year old nick-named
"flipper" (as in hamburger flipper) and his gormless, pimply friends.
We all know thats not true but you get the idea.

In short a genuinely excruciating experience that puts the S in
Stupid.....one out of ten from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes an hour and 40 minutes of non-stop action is not as much fun
as it sounds like. On the other hand, films are supposed to entertain
and there is more entertainment here than meets the eye.

This reviewer's scorecard, humbly submitted: 

CONS: 

* Toni Collette completes her mission to distance herself as far as
humanly possible from Muriels Wedding 1994. Wish she hadn't even tried.

* I thought these sort of goofy semi-spoof spy films (where even the
writers are not 100% sure whether to play it straight or for laughs)
ended with OUR MAN FLINT in 1966. Oops. I was wrong.

* writing, editing, directing all could have been turned up a notch.
Looks like a big rush to get it out there so it could start spinning
off cash.

PROS: 

* Sam Jackson, an actor who film historians of the future will
designate the "most overexposed" actor of our generation, gets only a
walkon and then is blown up. Finally someone got the memo! 

* stars Vin Diesel, one of the most reliable action figures of our era.
This is not in the class of Riddick or Pitch Black, but Vin commits to
every role and does not hold back.

* some really nice stunts. You will think of them fondly when you leave
the theatre.

* introduces Canadian Nina Dobrev to a wider audience. The line to join
the fan club starts at the back of the room. And when membership
closes, we can start a brand new one for Deepika Padukone.

* any movie -- repeat, ANY -- that advances Donnie Yen's English
language career is a plus. And worthy of our support. (Donnie's English
is way better than Jet Li's was, and I wish him many more western
roles.) 

* the final action sequence, the climax, runs about 20 minutes and is
sort of engaging.

BOTTOM LINE: Not as bad as the reviews suggest. Not in line for an
Oscar either.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe I actually paid to watch this utter tripe. It is
possibly the worst film I have ever seen in my life. If you've any
sense do not waste your money like I did. Some of the scenes are just
ridiculous. Donne Yen must have been totally desperate for the money
considering some of the great films he has made in the past. The female
characters are as you would expect very attractive but do not make up
for the awfulness of this film. Vin must be sat at home thinking OMG
why on earth did I actually make that film as he probably doesn't need
the money. The only good part of the film was near the end. The best
part of the film was when it had finished and I could get out of the
cinema. Honestly I repeat DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was awful and a massive waste of time. Physics is apparently
non existent. The NSA guards are worse than storm-troopers at shooting.
A huge cast but no character development at all and you get no idea of
their names as well. The plot makes no sense at all. The acting is all
over the place as well. Flying planes, flying cars, flying people and
even a goddamn flying boat. Then there are people who definitely should
have been killed but still they stay alive and then there are people
who died and I don't know how. Overall, one word that perfectly
describes this movie is 'pretentious'. It tries to define what's cool
and what's not but fails miserably. I wanted to write a sarcastic post
about this one, but this stupid movie doesn't deserve that. I hope
everyone sues the crap out of the producers for creating such a
godawful movie.
<|_=00=_|>
With foreign investments, it did not indicate that the production house
had to add in so many unnecessary foreign elements into the movie. Is
it even necessary to start off the story in a Chinese restaurant? Where
was the link? Foreign elements should be added if they were needed to
tell the story and not simply just to please the foreign investors.
They only make the story weaker. The story line of the movie was
ridiculously unbelievable, and the screenplay was absolutely
disappointing. The lines were so pale and redundant. It lacked what a
big blockbuster movie should have. No explanation was given for many
scenes, and it became very puzzling and exaggerating. This was not a
small budget movie, but it turned out to be one brainless movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I and two friends of mine spent a lot of money between us to watch this
movie today on the day of its release. Apart from wanting to watch
Deepika, I had enjoyed the original XXX movie (this one is a sequel),
plus I am a huge fan of Vin Diesel.

However I came out of the theatre in a state of total shock! In my life
I have watched thousands of movies, be it from Hollywood or Bollywood
or from other parts of the country and the world. But today, and I am
putting this down in writing, I got to see the worst movie of my entire
life so far!! Yes really, I know what I am saying! So please please
please ... try not to watch this movie ... it is so bad that it will
make you want to cry. Or it will actually put you to sleep, like with
the guy behind us in the theatre who was actually snoring within the
first half hour itself!

The movie has no story. It is not exciting as action films are meant to
be, because the action itself is very cartoonish and very boring. It
does not even have a proper climax, because it doesn't actually have a
real villain who can pose a bit of a challenge to the hero! Yes it has
several stunts, but you get to see most of them in the various trailers
of this movie on YouTube. Let me put it another way: the best action
scenes in this film are very very bad copies of scenes from the Matrix
movies, and the two James Bond movies GoldenEye and Die Another Day.
Plus the direction too is horrible, which results in many dialogues not
being properly audible, poorly lit scenes, extremely erratic editing,
poor acting ... or no acting, cos a lot of guys simply standing around
doing nothing is not really acting ... this list is endless!

Last but not the least: Deepika Padukone! Though I have always liked
her until now, I still say it is not worth spending money to go and see
her in this movie. Firstly her English sounds terrible over here. I
have earlier heard Deepika speak English on TV and she sounds smart
enough. So why is she speaking with a distinct South Indian accent in
this movie ... when her name here is Serena Unger and not Meenamma from
Chennai Express ... I mean could she not point out to the director that
it would sound ridiculously out of place? Also her role is pretty small
and her character is poorly etched out ... and so she doesn't really
get a chance to act. And as for her looks in this movie, well, she
easily looks much more prettier or glamorous in most of the Hindi films
that she has starred in.

So is this a movie review? Naw, it is more of a warning! Because XXX:
Return of Xander Cage is so bad that it is not even a time pass movie.
I score it a 1 ... out of 1000!
<|_=00=_|>
There is no story build up in this movie - and the action scenes are
unbelievable ~ aka too many bulls#it and impossible unrealistic
sequence. The "glorification of Xander Cage" is way too arrogant to a
point that your passion and interest for the character simply fades
away.

After the movie, I have less respect for the character that Vin Diesel
plays. If you are the type that likes to watch the action sequences;
you might enjoy this.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was pretty awful on so many levels. First, Diesel seems to
sleep walk through his lines and scenes. The slight tilt of the head
and cute smirk got old after the first 5 minutes. Donnie Yen's fight
scenes were really good, and that's about the best this film brings.
The writing was atrocious. The snarky, too-cute and clich√© lines at
every turn. I didn't know if I was watching a movie or reading the
one-liner comebacks from a comedy show. It's too bad because this movie
had a good cast. Toni Colette needs to stick to heavier roles; she
looked out of place in this role. And more Samuel Jackson. I've been
hoping for better films to come out of the new China-owned studios, but
so many have disappointed lately. Maybe Jet Li could have saved this
film, I'm not sure.
