
Firstly, this review does not contain any spoilers whatsoever so read
on. I had the privilege to watch this in the El Capitan theater
advanced screening. Johnny Depp, the goofy pirate that we have grown to
love, returns to his iconic role of Captain Jack Sparrow in an
action-packed tale of truth, betrayal, youth and demise.

The plot is when Jack crosses paths with a woman from his past
(Penelope Cruz), he's not sure if it's loveor if she's a ruthless con
artist who's using him to find the fabled Fountain of Youth. When she
forces him aboard the Queen Anne's Revenge, the ship of the formidable
pirate Blackbeard (Ian McShane), Jack finds himself on an unexpected
adventure in which he doesn't know who to fear more: Blackbeard or the
woman from his past.

By being a fan this franchise, I can happily confirm that YES, it is as
good as the first one! Be ready for an adventure and half! Brings
everything from the classic bizarre comedy to the nail biting action
scenes.

The marketing for the movie have been intelligently subliminal like
some other great film releases, like Avatar, or Blair Witch (the real
vs fake) and the recent awesome film production The Artifice
(the-artifice.com) and so on.

This is not a film to miss, does not matter if you are a die hard fan
of Pirates, or new to the series! I might be in trouble for writing a
review of the movie this early, so please click Yes on the "is this
review useful" as a thank you ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Law and Order: Special Victims Unit is one of my favorite television
shows, even though its gone a bit downhill lately. Is it the cast? No,
because they are mostly intact. What is actually happening is that each
of the main characters, known for their superb chemistry amongst each
other, are suddenly spending less screen time with each other and more
time to themselves. This story actually has a point. On Stranger Tides
suffers the same fate: fantastic cast that don't spend as much time
with each other as we hope. Add some pointless plot lines, a calmer
first-third of the flick, and you have yourself the fourth installment
of Pirates of the Caribbean.

That being said, its still quite entertaining. On Stranger Tides
follows a variety of people searching for the fabled Fountain of Youth.
Unfortunately for us, its not just Jack Sparrow. We have Blackbeard,
the Spanish, the British (led by Barbossa), Angelica, and more doing
the same thing. Subplots pertaining to this quest include Jack's past
with Angelica, Barbossa's questionable change in character, some random
guy falling for some random girl (I am serious, this part was totally
pointless), and the pointless Spanish people that flock in and out of
the movie.

This is by far the weakest part of the movie, the script. For some odd
reason, they borrowed far too much from the novel (whose pacing and
themes far differ that of the Pirates brand) and forgot that sometimes
simplicity is best---which is what made Curse of the Black Pearl such a
great film. It was the easiest to follow, and On Stranger Tides didn't
learn from the previous two installments. To add to that, the script
utterly separated everyone, even those with the best on-screen
chemistry. Barbossa was barely with Jack Sparrow, Sparrow was rarely
with his ex-lover, and worst of all reliable Gibbs spent minimal time
with Sparrow. When they are together, the humor, the banter, tension,
and the charm works well. When they aren't, well, the movie drags a
bit.

Thank goodness the cast is still on their game. Johnny Depp once again
breathes life into the pirate movie with his smart, unpredictable, and
hilarious portrayal of Jack Sparrow. Despite what the reviews say, Jack
Sparrow's shtick isn't getting old as he is still a delight to watch.
Geoffrey Rush once again shines as Jack's best rival Barbossa, as his
quiet intentions resemble that of Sparrow in earlier films. Penelope
Cruz adds a layer of sexuality that we definitely did not have with the
other Pirates of the Caribbeans--it's just a shame she didn't have much
time with Sparrow. Director Rob Marshall was able to shell out good
performances from everyone in the cast, but he definitely wasn't the
man for this job.

Almost all the chase scenes or action sequences were done with very
low-lighting and poor camera angles. With the exception of the
mesmerizing and chilling mermaid sequence and the opening chase, all
the action moments were missing that special touch. While the
bizarreness of Gore Verbinski will not be totally missed (although his
style worked perfectly in Rango), his ability to crank out excellent
stuntwork and fights was sorely missing here. At least we got to see
plenty of it, from the opening chase to the final dramatic (and short)
showdown. Say whatever you want, but there has yet to be anything that
can top the infamous three-way sword fight/old mill showdown from Dead
Man's Chest.

Bottom Line: Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides is a mix of
frustration and fun. There was plenty of potential that wasn't met
because of questionable plot lines, pointless moments, lack of
chemistry (once again: writer's fault. Good going Ted Elliot and Terry
Rossio), and uneven direction. All that banter aside, Pirates is also
plenty fun with several delightful moments, funny lines, and much more
action than the last Pirates flick. Johnny Depp, Penelope Cruz and
company keep the movie afloat, and prevent it from being a pure bore.
But I think the franchise works better when Verbinski is behind the
camera. On Stranger Tides is decent summer entertainment, but doesn't
have the inescapable magic and charm of the first two.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bad

I'm sure my surroundings had a lot to do with my enjoyment of the film,
or lack thereof, but even without that it wasn't up to the high
standard that I regard the first three Pirates of the Caribbean films.
The plot was flaky and apart from Jack, the characters weren't that
great.

After seeing Ian McShane in Deadwood I was convinced he'd make a
fantastic Blackbeard, but I think his Lovejoy character was more evil
than he was in On Stranger Tides. At the height of his devilishness (is
that even a word?) he triggered his ship's flamethrower to kill a
mutineer and gave us doubts over his true feelings to a daughter he'd
only just found out about. He wasn't a patch on the Barbosa/Davey
Jones/Lord Beckett trifecta of evil from the first three films. As
someone once said, Luke Skywalker was only as good as Darth Vader was
evil.

Speaking of the daughter, Penelope Cruz as Angelica was a character I
felt very apathetic towards. The whole raison d'etre of her quest to
find the Fountain of Youth was because it had been foretold that a one
legged man would kill her father and she wanted to save him so she
could have that father she never heard. I'm sorry but pass me the
bucket - that sentimental dross deserves to be on Jeremy Kyle (Oprah
Winfrey for anyone reading from the US) not as the main plot for the
latest of one of the biggest film franchises of all time.

The dilemma at the end of the film sees both Blackbeard and Angelica
about to die and only one can be saved by the Fountain of Youth. At
that point I didn't care if either died and why should I? Blackbeard is
an evil man, or so they tell us, and Angelica has used Jack to get to
the Fountain of Youth. If I were Jack I'd have left them both to die
and the film would have been better off if he had. At least then we'd
have some of the darker side of Jack which never showed appeared in
this film. Instead our scoundrel played a goody two shoes who seemed to
be motivated by his concern for Angelica's safety. Please, this is Jack
Sparrow we are talking about, like he really gives a damn about anyone
apart from himself, a characteristic which made him so appealing in the
previous films. Yes, he does have a softer side that we've seen before,
but to not this whipped extent.

Don't even get me started on the Mermaids. They were great to start
with, but as soon as it was just Syrena and her boring relationship
with Philip the clergyman, all was lost as they gave us the dullest
moments in Pirates of the Caribbean history, to date.

My last major moan is about the part where Jack left Angelica on the
island. Remember, Angelica's whole motivation was to save her father,
and Jack had just condemned him to death. So why in God's name, when
his back was turned, did she try to attack him with a piece of wood and
not shoot him in the back with the pistol he had just given her? Yes
she had some feelings for Jack, but surely not enough for her to get
over the fact that Jack had basically just killed her father and
destroyed what she had spent the whole film trying to achieve? Don't
give me the old 'he saved her life' spiel  Jack let Blackbeard , her
father, die - end of story.

The Good

Whilst nowhere near as funny as in the previous films Jack was still a
great character, in spite of his wimpy attitude change. The scenes
where he escaped from the King and the clutches of the Spanish were a
reminder of how great Pirates of the Caribbean can be at its best. It
was great to see Gibbs back alongside Jack as their chemistry is great
and a nice link back my beloved first three films.

As always, the film looked and sounded great, though the 3D wasn't
essential and I found myself taking the glasses off from time to time
and it made little difference. In fact I'd go as far as to say that
while you lose depth in 2D, you gain richness in colour.

I'm struggling to think of much else to compliment the film for and at
the moment I'm stuck in my post viewing disappointment funk. I really
need to watch it again but after my horrific cinema experience I'll
wait until it comes out on Blu-ray.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an advanced screening of this movie last night at the El Capitan
theatre in Hollywood. I don't want to give away any spoilers, so all
I'll say is that it was pretty darn good. By not having Keira Knightley
and Orlando Bloom in it, the film didn't feel like just a rehash of all
the other PotC films. Penelope Cruz and Ian McShane really added a lot
to the film, and I loved Sam Claflin's performance. But of course you
have to have Johnny Depp, because it wouldn't be PotC without him, and
Geoffrey Rush was spectacular as always. All in all, this has
everything you'd expect from PotC: swashbuckling, sea creatures,
sword-fighting, and lots of great comedy; but the new cast members keep
it feeling fresh.
<|_=00=_|>
As far as the Pirates of the Caribbean movies go, On Stranger Tides may
be lacking in the rollicking fun of Curse of the Black Pearl, which I
absolutely loved, though it's closer in spirit to it than those of the
two movies before, but I think it is better than Dead Man's Chest,
which had great effects and a brilliant Bill Nighy but felt overlong
and ferentic sometimes, and At World's End, which had the cast giving
their all, great visuals, score and final battle but rather convoluted
and bloated on the whole.

On Stranger Tides isn't perfect. I did feel it did have perhaps have
too many moments of exposition and clichés, though the story if
slightly rickety in places here is less bloated noticeably and better
paced than the film released before it which is a good thing. I also
felt the romantic subplot(s) felt underdeveloped and forced, and while
there are some droll, bizarre and witty quips particularly with Depp,
Rush and Cruz there is a bit of filler that could have been excised.

However, despite these complaints, On Stranger Tides is a worthy
instalment. Once again, the production values are impeccable, the
cinematography is skillful, the costumes, sets and period recreation is
authentic and the effects are superb. The opening twenty minutes is an
example of the writing being at its funniest and wittiest, and the
scenes with the mermaids are beautifully shot and intriguing.

While not perhaps original, and not among his best, I did very much
like Hans Zimmer's score, which was rousing and brought some
much-needed energy. The characters are not the best developed, but they
are fun and there aren't too many of them to interrupt the flow of the
story, a big problem I found with At World's End, while the action
sequences are both exciting and nail-biting on the whole.

I wasn't so sure about Rob Marshall as director, but he does a far
better job than expected, and the film is livelier in pace than Dead
Man's Chest and At World's End. The acting is good enough for what it
was. Johnny Depp plays lovable rogue Jack Sparrow with a voluptuous
swagger and sly humour and nails it again, while the idea to omit Kiera
Knightley and Orlando Bloom here proved a good one, without them for my
money the whole adventure carried less of a dead weight.

Instead we have Penelope Cruz, who proves a perfect match for Depp. She
is feisty, beautiful, foxy and sexy, and also likable and fun. I was
wondering what they would do for villains without Bill Nighy, but I
needn't have worried. Ian McShane is a worthy addition as Blackbeard,
who is charming in a grizzly way while committing acts of great evil.
Geoffrey Rush is underused in a way, but he does have some great lines
and a fun presence so he isn't a complete waste.

In conclusion, On Stranger Tides is not a perfect film, but as an
instalment to a decent enough franchise it is a more than worthy one.
And you know, what I've said about this movie was not something I
thought I would be saying, because judging by what I'd seen of the
advertising/trailers, it looked as though it was going be the worst of
the series, but actually for me it wasn't. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
So after a 4 year hiatus Disney decides to bring back Captain Jack
Sparrow. A huge fan of the first one and moderately enjoyed the second
one and confused by the third one I was ready to see a fresh crew for
the this new installment. 

The films opening scene was fantastic. It was fun and creative and
really captured the essence of the Jack Sparrow that we love. It kept
going for a bit. The first 20 minutes of the movie were the most
exciting and fun parts of the movie except for one scene which I feel
may be second best scene in all the Pirates films. 

The infamous addition of mermaids was the best part in the entire film.
It was very reminiscent of the powerful underwater march of the dead
from the first film. 

Lets move onto the acting. Most of it was decently solid but Ian
McShane as the villain, Black Beard stole the show. He actually seemed
like the only one who cared to make the film interesting. Another
newcomer to the series was Penelope Cruz. She was nothing fantastic but
completely necessary to bring in a much needed sex appeal to the film.
Geoffrey Rush returned as Barbosa, I felt he was very confused as to if
he was a bad guy or good guy which caused his acting to seem very
indifferent. There were a few scenes that you knew he was having fun
but otherwise he was just a drag. And of course Johnny Depp reprized
his role as the witty fun loving Captain Jack Sparrow. Again he had his
moments just like Barbosa that were fun and creative but he even came
up a little lackluster in certain scenes. 

The story was super simple, which I guess is understandable considering
the convoluted mess of 2 and 3.There was an unnecessary sub plot that
never got resolved, which I wish they spent a little more time on and
made it a little darker. I am not going to spoil anything though, but
you will see what I am talking about when you see the film. As you wait
for the scene after the credits you want it to be the conclusion to
this sub plot but nope. The climax could have been a bit more climatic
and more exciting, but I guess they did what they could. Most of the
action happens in the dark so I would not recommend the 3D transfer of
it. I saw it in 2D and I thought the 3D wouldn't be worth it.

Marshall did a mediocre job directing. It was nothing special and
definitely not Gore Verbinski. The way the film turned out, it looked
like the director was even bored while shooting. 

Positively though it is a summer blockbuster where your brain needs to
be left at home and will be enjoyed by lovers of the series. It may not
stay with you but for an hour and half of the movie out of the 2+
running time you will be enjoying yourself which I guess is not too
bad.

On initial reaction to the film I gave it a 7/10 because at the time it
was enjoyable. Then I thought about it and the reason I almost fell
asleep twice was not because it was late, it was because the story was
boring and nothing was really happening in this lengthy piece of work.
Therefore on second reaction it gets a 5/10. 

If they continue the series, which I am sure they will seeing as how
this film will make bank over the weekend, they need to trim out the
unnecessary sub plots that do nothing for the story except let it drag
on and if anything bring back the gorgeous and creepy mermaids. Also
have a little faith in the audience, you can make the plot a little bit
more thought provoking instead of laying all the pieces in front of us
and then watching you put them together after we already know how to do
the puzzle in our head. 

Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides 5/10 via The Reel King

Follow The Reel King on Tumblr for more reviews
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Sparrow...I mean Captain Jack Sparrow, it's probably time to hang
your boots and bury your sinking pirate career before dirt-storm wrecks
whatever remains of my sweet memories of the original Jack Sparrow
legend, the Curse of the Black Pearl. Although, I wasn't half as
impressed with its sequels, somehow even in those movies the Pirate
magic weaved its way into the hearts of loyal fans, many of whom I'm
sure are as aggrieved and disappointed as I am, just choosing to remain
silent out of respect and love for the Jack Sparrow we all knew and
cared about. However it needs to be said, the current version achieves
nothing apart from making you scratch your head in frustration. 

Someone here commented this was supposed to be better than at least its
last two predecessors -bollocks. After all, who can forget the
inspiring "Hoist the Colours" speech by Elizabeth in "At World's End",
and that opening execution scene did it not send shivers down your
spine? About this version, I don't recollect ONE memorable scene worth
talking about. There's nothing, absolutely nothing inspirational or
redeemable. 

Before watching this monstrous travesty of a pirate story, I read each
and every review on IMDb and was confused whether or not to spend a lot
of money on it. Finally I listened to my heart who cares about critics,
being a loyal Pirate fan I knew at least Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush
wouldn't disappoint. My, couldn't have been any wronger. In fact, I
never felt so disappointed listening to my heart. With a straight face,
I managed to sit through the entire screening, taking a while to
realise how casually the sublime Pirate magic was fading away into an
appalling doom of mediocrity, clichés and earthy innuendoes. 

Plot aside, everything about the movie was repetitive and easily
predictive, "now comes the swordfight", "now comes the menacing
Blackbeard", "the mermaid's about to bite". If they paid me a dollar
for each correct guess, I'm sure I would have been rich by now. Even
the soundtrack failed to strike a chord. About Jack Sparrow and
Barbossa, I could notice a deep sense of fatigue in dialogue delivery
with such fine actors despite the fact no one else can take their
roles. Was it like let's just take our money and get over with this
nonsense. About Blackbeard, impressive introduction but for the
remaining film, I don't think that character could have scared a two
year old in a dark room. Angelica, that Latina lover of Jack Sparrow,
well she could have been a breath of fresh air but the character lacked
depth and dimensions. Speaking of Latins, why did they make the
Spaniard Kings and soldiers speak English? I've read a lot of history
about Spain's naval prowess in the olden days, for greater authenticity
couldn't they have made them speak Castilian Spanish with sub- titles
in English. It's tiny details like these which make you angry about the
lack of research in putting together such a fabled story. The "Fountain
of Youth", again a great plot element but I wanted a genuine SENSE OF
HISTORY with that like its legendary connections with Ancient Greeks
and the lost kingdom of Atlantis. Again, deja vu remember how Barbossa
made an introduction of those Gold nuggets in Curse of the Black Pearl,
connecting them with Aztec civilisation and the Conquistadores led by
Hernan Cortes. Now, that's called RESEARCH. 

The mermaids were neither beautiful nor significant enough. I think
they should have casted blonde Russian chicks straight from Moscow and
St.Petersburg for that look of vulnerability. The priest who fell in
love with the mermaid was neither convincing in his religious fervour
nor his romantic passion for the woman. 

VERDICT: Let this Pirate of the Caribbean storyline end now already,
and not be resurrected until another 50-100 years!

P.S.: In all fairness, I've seen far worse movies than POTC- On
Stranger Tides. If it were simply another movie, I would have rated it
a Three Point Five. But, since you have the legendary POTC appeal to
bank upon, expectations will always be much higher, so you just can't
afford to disappoint. Thus, there you are - One Star.
<|_=00=_|>
After a four-year hiatus to regroup and determine the future of the
franchise, Disney and what was once its surprise mega-hit "Pirates of
the Caribbean" series have returned in "On Stranger Tides." Hard to
believe that this franchise evolved from the once-lambasted concept of
a theme park ride being turned into a successful motion-picture
blockbuster. After exhausting the "Pirates" world with two back-to-back
sequels of titanic and rather disappointing proportion in 2006 and
2007, a break in the action to recalibrate Captain Jack Sparrow's
compass was much-needed. The "new" course set by "On Stranger Tides"
uses worn sails, but with a fresh wind of characters and more
importantly, a more direct purpose.

As promised in the end of "At World's End," Jack's looking for the
Fountain of Youth if for nothing more than ships and giggles. First,
however, he must take a side trip to London to rescue his old pal Gibbs
(Kevin McNally) and subsequently the palace of King George (Richard
Griffiths in a lovely cameo). There, he learns that his old pal
Barbossa (Rush) has lost The Black Pearl as well as his leg and sold
out to His Majesty's Royal Navy. He is to help the English find the
Fountain before the Spaniards do. Jack, of course, knows the way there,
thus continuing his ongoing role as an indispensable pestilence.

After a familiar improvised escape, he crosses paths with an old lover,
Angelica (Penelope Cruz), who he once deflowered before she was to take
her vows at a convent. She mentions she has a ship he can borrow, only
it turns out that it's her father's ship, the Queen Anne's Revenge,
captained by none other than Blackbeard the Pirate (Ian McShane), a
feared and soulless scourge with a minor in black magic. So much for
smooth sailing.

As overdone and cliché as the Fountain of Youth may be, it's perfect
for the "Pirates" franchise and helps keep things very simple,
something the last installment had more than a fair deal of trouble
with. Only a few character subplots threaten to convolute the story,
but all motivations lead to the Fountain regardless the reason. In
fact, "On Stranger Tides" marks the first film to truly focus on
Captain Jack. With Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley's characters out
of the way, the franchise can keep the spotlight on the reason it's
gotten four films deep. Depp has nothing new in store for us as the
true center of attention, but by continuing to underplay the trademark
quirks and mannerisms, he continues to prolong the deterioration of the
Capt. Jack act. Some might disagree, but it depends how much you liked
him the first place.

In terms of new faces, Ian McShane is impeccable as Blackbeard. Rush
gave a wonderfully theatrical performance as the main villain in the
first film, but McShane introduces the first true quantifiable force of
evil the franchise has seen. Although his voodoo abilities and
reputation for killing his men and bringing them back from the dead to
serve as his zombie slaves are never entirely realized, he's the
merciless villain this film needed. He never fully crosses into
scare-your-children evil, but he could've at any instant and that
feeling radiates from his performance. In general, this film aligns
itself more with fantasy and traditional folklore than the supernatural
like the previous film.

Among other new faces, Rob Marshall as the franchise's new director
does serviceable work. The "Chicago" filmmaker chews the scenery well
and creates effective moods and tones, but the action could have been a
bit more inspired, especially considering the series' reputation for
sword-fighting ingenuity.

Marshall's best work and the film's best sequence deals with mermaids,
not the singing and seashell bra type, but seduce you with their looks
and then try and devour you with fangs type. Quiet, suspenseful and
culminating in a full-on action sequence, the mermaids constitute the
one completely fresh element of the film. Their cove is the lone stop
on the journey as well, so it's the only aspect of the plot that
creates that classic seafaring adventure feeling akin to Homer's "The
Odyssey."

Not much else deviates from the formula, so those hoping for a
resurgence in the series or something as good as the first film, "The
Curse of the Black Pearl," will remain wishful thinkers once again.
It's hard to imagine where the series could go next without retreading
over old ground or just introducing new characters for the sake of it,
but Captain Jack Sparrow remains one of the few reliable comforts of
blockbuster cinema, and any adventure with him at the wheel will
struggle to be a total waste of time. "On Stranger Tides" makes just
enough adjustments to the series to make for a successful installment.

~Steven C

Visit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
POTC-OST is not the best of the series, but it is a step in the right
direction. If you, like me, were very disappointed with the third
Pirates movie then I do not blame you for wanting to skip out on this
one. In fact I was considering not seeing this one myself, especially
when the critics reviews came out. I decided to give it a chance,
primarily because I had seen the other ones. I was pleasantly surprised
and ending up liking the movie. One of the major differences between
this and the other Pirates movies (and it is one everyone is going to
notice right off the bat) is that Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knightely are
not in this movie. I am not too disappointed, there story overtook the
third Pirates movie, which is part of the reason I did not like it. I
was also sick of Knightely terrible speech scenes (if you saw the third
you know exactly what I mean). Furthermore a few other pirates who were
franchise regulars were missing in this one. What is left from the
original three is Jack, Barbosa, Gibbs and the monkey makes two brief
cameo appearances.

There was a number of things wrong with the third Pirates movie, among
them was the fact that it was long, or it felt long at least. This
movie is the shortest of the Pirates films and it moves at a brisk
pace. The third Pirates slowed down considerably in the middle, to the
point it was almost unbearable to watch. This movie does not make that
mistake. This movie is almost all action and because of this it did not
feel long, at least in my opinion.

As usual the effects were great. The action is almost nonstop and when
there is no action there is enough going on to keep the audience
interested. There is also plenty of signature Jack Sparrow humor. Since
the previous two (especially the third) were focused almost entirely on
the story of Will and Elizabeth Jack was almost forgotten. Another
reason the third suffered. It was great to have that story out of the
way, because this movie is focused on Jack and that is a strength.

Despite the fact that it improved on a number of the things that made
the third bad, this one still is not up to par with the original. It is
a good movie all around. It is refreshing and reminds us why we liked
these movies in the first place. I recommend giving it a shot, don't
expect anything great, just know that this movie is superior in every
way to the third.
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Sparrow, Barbossa and Mr. Gibbs are by far, the best combinations,
they are the real comedians of this movie. I missed the rest of the
Black Pearl's crew.

Angélica doesn't show her role clearly and she has a pointless quest
(save her father from death, who was predicted to be killed by one man
that has a wood-leg ), somehow she could be lovely for some people and
totally annoying for others.

Blackbeard doesn't show his role also, he has a great first entrance
and "that's it"....then he moves between being an evil man and a scared
old man.

The cleric and mermaid's love story is totally forgettable and bad
acted by the cleric mainly.

The real problem of this movie is the lack of detail explanations...
the Blackbeard's sword seems to be an important item, but its origin
was never described (this role was played in the anterior movies by
Pintel and Ragetti, giving details over every mythic character or
legends) the same fact with Blackbeard , the lost of the Barbossa's leg
just has a couple of lines without any image showing the event, even in
"racconto" mode.

In general lines, the movie lacks of story and details.
